{"id": "32547463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32547463", "title": "1491 (musical)", "text": "1491 (musical)\n\n1491 is a musical centered around Christopher Columbus before his voyage to discover the New World. Music and lyrics are by American composer and playwright Meredith Willson. It was Willson's final musical. The book was by Willson and Richard Morris with additional material by Ira Barmak and was based on an idea by Ed Ainsworth.\n\nIt was intended to have the show open in California in 1967, before transferring to Broadway. The previous two years were spent researching Columbus and traveling in Spain and Italy for possible material.\n\nThe musical opened in Los Angeles on September 2, 1969, and later transferred to San Francisco where it closed on December 13, 1969. The musical closed before reaching Broadway. Richard Morris was the director, Edwin Lester was the producer, and Danny Daniels was the choreographer. John Cullum starred as Christopher Columbus and Chita Rivera starred as his mistress. Jean Fenn played Queen Isabella. Sergio Franchi was previously cast as Columbus.\n"}
{"id": "10595542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10595542", "title": "1946 René le Bègue Cup", "text": "1946 René le Bègue Cup\n\nThe 1946 René le Bègue Cup was a Grand Prix motor race held in Paris on 6 June 1946.\n"}
{"id": "57930783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57930783", "title": "1959 anti-American riots in Panama", "text": "1959 anti-American riots in Panama\n\nThe 1959 anti-American riots in Panama happened during the celebration of Panamanian independence on November 3, 1959. Demonstrations started that day as Panamanians were influenced by former foreign minister Aquilino Boyd, who threatened a \"peaceful invasion\" of the American-controlled Panama Canal Zone, to raise the flag of the republic there as tangible evidence of Panama's sovereignty over the territory.\n\nFearful that Panamanian mobs might actually force entry into the Canal Zone, the United States called out its troops. Several hundred Panamanians crossed barbed-wire restraints and clashed with Canal Zone police and troops. A second wave of Panamanian citizens was repulsed by the Panamanian National Guard, supported by American troops. Extensive and violent disorder followed. A mob smashed the windows of the United States Information Agency library. The United States flag was torn from the ambassador's residence and trampled, and the U.S. embassy was attacked. Stones were thrown against the troops, who were dispersed by tear gas. Three American troops were injured, whilst two student protesters were arrested.\n\nAware that public hostility was getting out of hand, political leaders attempted to regain control over their followers but were unsuccessful. Relations between the two governments were severely strained. United States authorities erected a fence on the border of the Canal Zone, and United States citizens residing in the Canal Zone observed a voluntary boycott of Panamanian merchants, who traditionally depended heavily on these patrons.\n\nTension were already stoked before amid the discontent over the Canal Zone. In May 1958 students demonstrating against the United States clashed with the National Guard, and nine peopled died in the violence. On September 17, 1960, American President Dwight D. Eisenhower attempted to defuse the issue by letting the Flag of Panama fly alongside the Stars and Stripes of the U.S. inside the Canal Zone. After the events of 1959, violence occurred again in 1964.\n"}
{"id": "42582237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42582237", "title": "Abusive supervision", "text": "Abusive supervision\n\nAbusive supervision is most commonly studied in the context of the workplace, although can arise in other areas such as in the household and at school. \"Abusive supervision has been investigated as an antecedent to negative subordinate workplace outcome.\" \"Workplace violence has combination of situational and personal factors\". The study that was conducted looked at the link between abusive supervision and different workplace events.\n\nAbusive supervision overlaps with workplace bullying in the workplace context. Research suggests that 75% of workplace bullying incidents are perpetrated by hierarchically superior agents. Abusive supervision differs from related constructs such as supervisor bullying and undermining in that it does not describe the intentions or objectives of the supervisor.\n\nWorkplace deviance is closely related to abusive supervision. Abusive supervision is defined as the \"subordinates' perceptions of the extent to which their supervisors engage in the sustained display of hostile verbal and nonverbal behaviors\". This could be when supervisors ridicule their employees, give them the silent treatment, remind them of past failures, fail to give proper credit, wrongfully assign blame or blow up in fits of temper. It may seem like employees who are abused by their supervisor will either directly retaliate or withdraw by quitting the job but in reality many strike out against their employer by engaging in organizational deviant behaviors. Since employees control many of the organization's resources, they often use, or abuse anything they can. This abuse of resources may come in the form of time, office supplies, raw materials, finished products or the services that they provide. This usually occurs in two steps. First step is that commitment is destroyed and employees stop caring about the welfare of the employer. The second step is that the abused employee will get approval (normally implied) of their coworkers to commit deviant acts.\n\nWorkplace experiences may fuel the worker to act out. Research has been conducted demonstrating that the perception of not being respected is one of the main causes for workplace deviance; workplace dissatisfaction is also a factor. According to Bolin and Heatherly, \"dissatisfaction results in a higher incidence of minor offenses, but does not necessarily lead to severe offense\". An employee who is less satisfied with his or her work may become less productive as their needs are not met. In the workplace, \"frustration, injustices and threats to self are primary antecedents to employee deviance\". Although workplace deviance does occur, the behavior is not universal. There are two preventive measures that business owners can use to protect themselves. The first is strengthening the employee's commitment by reacting strongly to abusive supervision so that the employee knows that the behavior is not accepted. Holding the employee at high esteem by reminding them of their importance, or setting up programs that communicate concern for the employee may also strengthen employee commitment. Providing a positive ethical climate can also help. Employers can do this by having a clear code of conduct that is applied to both managers and employees alike.\n\nSocial undermining can arise from abusive supervision, such as when a supervisor uses negative actions and it leads to \"flow downhill\"; a supervisor is perceived as abusive.\n\nResearch has shown that \"abusive supervision is a subjective assessment made by subordinates regarding their supervisors\" behavior towards them over a period of time. For example, abusive supervision includes a \"boss demeaning, belittling, or invading privacy of the subordinate.\n\nHostile attribution bias is an extra punitive mentality where individuals tend to project blame on others. Researchers wanted to see how hostile attribution bias can moderate the relationship between perceptions of psychological contract violation and subordinates’ perceptions of abusive supervision. Undermining does arise with abusive supervision, which affects families and aggression; they believe that there is a stronger positive relationship between experiences of psychological contract violation and subordinates’ reports of abuse. It suggests that when someone has a negative work environment, it will affect their emotional training ground where this would result in negative home encounters. The findings from this study show that abused subordinates' family members reported a higher incidence of undermining in their home. When this occurs, complications arise at both home and work. Workplace abuse may be spawning negative interpersonal relations in the home, which may contribution to a downward spiral of relationships in both spheres.\n\nWhen a subordinate is being abused, it can lead to negative affect towards their family where the subordinate starts undermining their family members. The undermining can arise from displaced aggression which is \"redirection of a [person’s] harm doing behavior from a primary to a secondary target\" (Tedeschi & Norman, 1985, p. 30). Family undermining arises from a negative work environment: when someone above you puts you down, one starts to think that one should be put down by one's family members.\n\nIn research, the presence of \"Machiavellianism\" was positively associated with subordinate perceptions of abusive supervision.\n\n"}
{"id": "51159417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51159417", "title": "AngelHack", "text": "AngelHack\n\nAngelHack is a global hackathon and innovation organization. It originated in San Francisco and has since expanded to over 50 cities with over 100,000 developers.\n\nAngelHack hosts an annual global hackathon competition where entrants compete to build, test, and launch new software solutions over the course of a weekend. AngelHack is also the creator of HACKcelerator and Global Demo Day.\n\nAngelHack facilitates corporate hackathons and has partnered with organizations such as Comcast-NBC Universal, Hasbro, IBM, Nationwide and Discover to run themed events designed to prototype ideas.\n\nAngelHack's community consists of approximately 160,000 members. Currently, it is a female-owned, female-majority company run by co-founder and CEO Sabeen Ali.\n\nAngelHack was founded in September 2011 by Greg Gopman and Krystyl Baldwin. In late 2011, Greg Osuri and Sabeen Ali joined as co-founders. Sabeen is the current CEO and remaining co-founder at AngelHack.\n\nCode For A Cause is a subsequent nonprofit organization that was founded in 2013 by Sabeen Ali and AngelHack after seeing an opportunity to create a dialogue about the equality gap in technology.\n\nHACKcelerator is a pre-accelerator program that provides mentorship to entrepreneurs and showcases companies to investors. AngelHack is the highest valued pre-accelerator in the industry with a startup portfolio valuation of $75M and acquisitions from tech leaders such as Google and BOX. Notable HACKcelerator teams include WeFunder, Microryza, Waigo Translate, SlickLogin and Appetas, Osper, and AtumSoft.\n\nAfter winning local AngelHack hackathons and completing the 12-week pre-accelerator program, startups are given the opportunity to present their ideas at Global Demo Day in San Francisco. This event allows the winning startups to pitch their prototypes and business plans to potential investors and industry experts while competing for prizes. \n\nAngelHack has worked with over 100 companies across the world, building out innovation programs, developer marketing initiatives, and running internal and external hackathons. Notable corporate hackathons include the official hackathon of the yearly Money20/20 FinTech conference in Las Vegas, a global hackathon series targeting blockchain developers with EOS, and a massive 15-city hackathon series with MasterCard in 2015, Masters of Code. \n\n"}
{"id": "2733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2733", "title": "April 25", "text": "April 25\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56032558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56032558", "title": "BANDUNG 2017 World Stamp Exhibition", "text": "BANDUNG 2017 World Stamp Exhibition\n\nThe BANDUNG 2017 Specialized World Stamp Exhibition was an international stamp exhibition held 3–7 August 2017 at the Trans Studio Convention Center in Bandung, Indonesia. The exhibition was granted patronage from the Fédération Internationale de Philatélie (FIP).\n\nThere were 455 exhibits.\n\nThe Grand Prix awards went to the following exhibits:\n\nThe Grand Prix International went to Ding Jinsong (China) for ‘The 1897 Red Revenue Surcharges of China‘ (97 points).\n\nThe Grand Prix National went to Indra Kusuma (Indonesia) for ‘Repoeblik Indonesia 1945–1949, Local Issued Stamps during Independent War in Java Island‘ (96 points).\n\n"}
{"id": "48430314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48430314", "title": "Beyond the Border Storytelling Festival", "text": "Beyond the Border Storytelling Festival\n\nBeyond The Border Wales International Storytelling Festival is a Wales-based international arts festival dedicated to celebrating the retelling of the world’s traditional stories.\n\nBegun in 1993, the festival is held every other year over the first weekend in July in the grounds of St Donat's Castle, on the Heritage Coast of the Vale of Glamorgan. Along with performances of world myth, legend and folktale, the festival features music, poetry, cinema, dance, theatre and puppetry, together with world food stalls, workshops, Craft Market, bookshops and the Beyond The Border Real Ale Bar.\n\nThe 2014 festival involved over 100 different performances taking place in 9 different venues throughout the gardens of St Donat's Castle, including the Tythe Barn Theatre and the 14th Century Bradenstoke Hall of St Donat's Castle, and attracted over 2000 people of all ages, drawn from across the UK and abroad. The festival is supported among others by Arts Council of Wales, and has been awarded Major Events Status by the Welsh Government.\n\nIn addition to the biennial festival weekend, Beyond The Border runs an active year-round programme of storytelling events and community activities, aimed at raising awareness of the art of performance storytelling and the world’s common heritage of traditional stories.\n\n"}
{"id": "46454724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46454724", "title": "Bug River property", "text": "Bug River property\n\nThe Bug River property (, \"Trans-Bug property\") is property which was within the territory of the interbellum Poland (Second Polish Republic) and was abandoned by Polish owners after 1945. it was abandoned when the territory was no longer inside of Poland. The name refers to Bug River because the Bug is a major part of the new eastern boundary of Poland (roughly based on the Curzon Line), separating the so-called Eastern Borderlands from the rest of the former Polish territory. The Bug River property is located within the states of Belarus, Lithuania, and Ukraine. The claims for compensation for this lost property are known as the Bug River claims.\n\nThe agreements between the USSR and the interim Polish government (Government of National Unity) mostly concerned the evacuation of the population, and did not set out in any detail rules for compensation for owners of abandoned property. The laws of the Communist Poland had a number of provisions concerning the issues related to agricultural land and unmovable property.\n\nIn modern Poland, the act of December 12, 2003, by offsetting the value of the property abandoned abroad against sales price or fees for perpetual use is regarded as a base for state compensation to Polish citizens for the value of the abandoned property. As of February 29, 2003, 82,000 applications for compensation were submitted, with total estimate value over 10,500 million PLN.\n\nDue to unsatisfactory handling of the issue, it was raised before the Constitutional Tribunal (2002 proceedings ).\n\nIn 2004 the issue was considered by the European Court for Human Rights (pilot case: \"Broniowski v. Poland\"). The Court found \n\na systemic problem connected with the malfunctioning of domestic legislation and practice caused by the failure to set up an effective mechanism to implement the \"right to credit\" of Bug River claimants ... with the consequence that not only the applicant in this particular case but also a whole class of individuals had been or were still denied the peaceful enjoyment of their possessions.\n\nThe Court noted that the issue was not satisfactorily resolved for some 80,000 claims.\n\nFurther decrees on the implementation of the right for compensation include:\n\nIn February 2014 President Bronisław Komorowski signed a decree to further update the regulations related to compensation for Bug River property. In particular, the decree removed a number of restrictions to the right for the compensation. In doing so, it addressed the issues raised before the Constitutional Tribunal and the ECHR on the subject.\n\nRecently, due to the aspirations of Ukraine to join the European Union, Polish society raised an issue whether Ukraine will be willing to share the burden of the compensation. Reportedly, Lithuania has been very reluctantly handling the claims of Poles for compensation/restitution.\n"}
{"id": "53588294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53588294", "title": "Children in emergencies and conflicts", "text": "Children in emergencies and conflicts\n\nChildren in emergencies and conflicts constitutes the effects of situations that pose detrimental risks to the health, safety, and well-being of children. There are many different kinds of conflicts and emergencies, for example, violence, armed conflicts, war, natural disasters, etc. Approximately 13 million children are displaced by armed conflicts and violence around the world. Where violent conflicts are the norm, the lives of young children are significantly disrupted and their families have great difficulty in offering the sensitive and consistent care that young children need for their healthy development. Studies on the effect of emergencies and conflict on the physical and mental health of children between birth and 8 years old show that where the disaster is natural, the rate of PTSD occurs in anywhere from 3 to 87 per cent of affected children. However, rates of PTSD for children living in chronic conflict conditions varies from 15 to 50 per cent as evidenced in the following countries: Iran, Iraq, Israel, Kuwait, Lebanon, Palestine, Rwanda, South Africa, and Sudan.\n\nIn sum, emergency and conflict may impact on children’s development in the following manner:\n\nResearch shows that environmental factors and experiences can alter the genetic make-up of a developing child. Exposure to prolonged stress, environmental toxins or nutritional deficits chemically alter genes in the foetus or young child and may shape the individual’s development temporarily or permanently. Violence and maternal depression may also impair child development and mental health. When trauma occurs at critical times of development for the foetus or young child, the impact on specialized cells for organs such as the brain, heart, or kidney can result in underdevelopment with lifetime implications for physical and mental health. For instance, a study on Iraq showed the rate of heart defects at birth in Fallujah to be 13 times the rate found in Europe. And for birth defects involving the nervous system the rate was calculated to be 33 times that found in Europe for the same number of births. Prolonged stress during pregnancy or early childhood can be particularly toxic and, in the absence of protective relationships, may also result in permanent genetic changes in developing brain cells. Evidence has shown that toxins and stress from the mother cross the placenta into the umbilical cord, leading to premature and low birth weight babies. Likewise, conflict trauma can affect pregnant women and the subsequent emotional health of their children. In addition, babies of severely stressed and worried mothers are at higher risk to be born small or prematurely.\n\nChildren’s reactions to emergencies fluctuate depending on age, temperament, genetics, pre-existing problems, coping skills and cognitive competencies, and the dose of the emergency. Although most children are said to recover over time, if emergency reactions are left untreated, they can have a significant adverse impact on children’s social, emotional, behavioural and physical development.\n\nIn conflict-affected countries, the average mortality rate for children under 5 is more than double the rate in other countries. On the average, twelve children out of a hundred die before their fth birthday, compared with six out of a hundred. Common reactions among this age group are severe separation distress, crying, clinging, immobility and/or aimless motion, whimpering, screaming, sleeping and eating disorders, nightmares, fearfulness, regressive behaviours such as thumb-sucking, bed-wetting, loss of bowel/bladder control, inability to dress or eat without assistance, and fear of darkness, crowds and being left alone.\n\nDuring an investigation of the relationship between exposure to day raids and shelling and behavioural and emotional problems among Palestinian children, aged 3–6, in the Gaza Strip, children demonstrated sleeping problems, poor concentration, attention-seeking behaviour, dependency, temper tantrums and increased fear. Mothers of Palestinian kindergarten children reported severely impaired psychosocial and emotional functioning in their children. Thabet et al. examined the behavioural and emotional problems of 309 Palestinian pre-schoolers, and found that direct and indirect exposure to war trauma increased the risk of poor mental health. Zahr et al., in a study on the effect of war on Lebanese pre-school children, found more problems in children aged 3–6 years exposed to heavy shelling over a 2-year period than in a control group living without this threat. According to Yaktine, 40 mothers of different socio-economic backgrounds during the civil war in Beirut reported that their pre-school children became more anxious and fearful about bombardments and explosions. After Scud missile attacks, displaced Israeli pre-school children demonstrated aggression, hyperactivity and oppositional behaviour and stress. This was compared with non-displaced children and, despite a continuous decrease in symptom severity, risk factors identified shortly after the Gulf War continued to exert their influence on children five years after the traumatic exposure.\n\nCommon symptoms in this age bracket include disturbing thoughts and images, nightmares, eating and sleeping disorders, noncompliance, irritability, extreme withdrawal, outbursts of anger and fighting, disruptive behaviour, inability to pay attention, irrational fears, regressive behaviour, depression and anxiety, feeling of guilt and emotional numbing, excessive clinging, headaches, nausea and visual or hearing problems. Traumatic events experienced before the age of 11 are three times more likely to result in serious emotional and behavioural difficulties than those experienced later in life. According to the Palestinian Counseling Centre, Save the Children, even six months after the demolition of their homes, young Palestinian children suffered from withdrawal, somatic complaints, depression/anxiety, unexplained pain, breathing problems, attention difficulties and violent behaviour. They were afraid to go to school, had problems relating to other children and greater attachment to caregivers. As a result, parents reported deterioration in educational achievement and ability to study. Al-Amine and Liabre revealed that 27.7 per cent of Lebanese children aged between 6 and 12 suffered from symptoms of PTSD, as well as from problems sleeping, agitation, difficulties in concentrating and excessive awareness of events related to the 2006 Lebanese-Israeli war. Many children in Sudan and northern Uganda who were forced to witness family members being tortured and murdered exhibited stunting, PTSD and other trauma-related disorders.\n\nChildren with disabilities are disproportionately affected by emergencies, and many become disabled during disasters. Children with disabilities may suffer due to loss of their assistive devices, loss of access to medicines or rehabilitative services and, in some cases, loss of their caregiver. In addition, disabled children tend to be more vulnerable to abuse and violence. UNICEF research indicates that violence against children with disabilities occurs at annual rates at least 1.7 times greater than their able-bodied peers. Young children with disabilities living in conflict are more vulnerable and the consequent physical, psychological or emotional problems are higher. They are also more likely to develop emotional and mental health problems during emergencies because of lack of mobility, treatment, and medication or through starvation. The Inter-Agency Standing Committee (IASC) recognizes that children with pre-existing disabilities are more vulnerable to mistreatment, discrimination, abuse and destitution. Children with mobility, visual and hearing disabilities or intellectual impairments may feel particularly vulnerable if an emergency leads to the relocation of school and the learning of new daily routines. During emergencies, long unsafe distances to school, the lack of buildings with adequate facilities and equipment and teachers with minimum qualifications, are likely to be overwhelming challenges for young children with disabilities to be enrolled in day care and early education.\n\nSome research shows that girls exhibit higher levels of distress than boys in relation to stressful situations and are considered at higher risk in situations of war and terror. Other research has found that girls express more worry, anxiety and depressive disorders, and PTSD symptoms while boys show more behavioural problems in the aftermath of a disaster. However, pre-school girls exposed to earthquakes in Sultandagi (Turkey) displayed more problematic behaviours than boys in the same educational category. Additionally, Wiest, Mocellin, and Motsisi contend that young children, especially girls, may be vulnerable to sexual abuse and exploitation. Garbarino and Kostelny reported that Palestinian boys suffered more than girls from psychological problems when exposed to chronic conflict. In another study, Palestinian boys were more susceptible to effects of violence during early childhood and girls during adolescence. In general it appears that boys take longer to recover, displaying more aggressive, antisocial and violent behaviour while girls may be more distressed but are more verbally expressive about their emotions.\n\nIn all conflict-affected countries, 21.5 million children of primary school age are out of school. Over the past decade, the problem of out-of- school children has been increasingly concentrated in conflict-affected countries, where the proportion increased from 29% in 2000 to 35% in 2014; in Northern Africa and Western Asia, it increased from 63% to 91%.\n\nQuality education alleviates the psychosocial impact of conflict and disasters by giving a sense of normalcy, stability, structure and hope for the future. However, emergency and conflict situations often undermine the quality of educational services. They result in shortages of materials, resources and personnel, thereby depriving young children of the opportunity to receive quality early education. In most conflicts, education infrastructure is usually a target. Pre-schools and schools are often destroyed or closed due to hazardous conditions depriving young children of the opportunity to learn and socialize in a safe place that provides a sense of routine.\n\nYoung children living under emergencies are less likely to be in primary school and more likely to drop out. Primary school completion in poorer conflict-affected countries is 65 per cent while it is 86 per cent in other poor countries. According to the 2000 UNICEF MICS report, information from Iraq, for example, confirms the lack of Early Childhood Development programmes within the formal educational system. Only 3.7 per cent of children aged from 36 to 59 months were enrolled in nurseries or kindergartens. Low enrollment rates in early education programmes decrease the opportunity for young children to find a safe space where they flourish and release the stress and tension resulting from the emergency. In countries with ongoing emergencies, researchers have found a full range of symptoms that may be co-morbid with trauma, including attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, poor academic performance, behavioural problems, bullying and abuse, oppositional defiant disorder, conduct disorder, phobic disorder and negative relationships (Terr, 1991; Streeck-Fischer and van der Kolk, 2000).\n\nA study using the Young Lives data in Ethiopia found that young children whose mothers had died were 20 per cent less likely to enroll in school, 21 per cent less likely to be able to write, and 27 per cent less likely to be able to read. Dybdahl found that 5- to 6-year-old war-traumatized Bosnian children showed lower levels of cognitive competence. Pre-school and school age Palestinian children exposed to severe losses, wounding and home destruction suffered impaired cognitive capacity for attention and concentration. Severe trauma has been found to be associated with in exible and narrowed attention and problem-solving strategies. Since both physical and mental health are linked to language and cognitive development, it is reasonable to assume that violent conflict has a negative effect on these areas of development.\n\nEarly childhood care and education (ECCE) is a multisectoral field that holistically addresses children’s multiple needs. During emergencies ECCE supportive services may address a range of issues including prenatal care, immunization, nutrition, education, psychosocial support and community engagement. Coordinated services of health and nutrition, water sanitation and hygiene, early learning, mental health and protection are considered essential in supporting young children living under emergencies and conflicts.\n\nMany programmes and strategies, whether in the formal or non-formal education sector, have proved to be very supportive to the well-being and recovery of young children living in areas of conflict. Child Friendly Spaces (CFS) programmes have been found valuable in creating a sense of normality and providing coping skills and resilience to children affected by emergencies. Child Friendly Spaces help children develop social skills and competencies such as sharing and cooperation through interaction with other children. They also offer opportunities to learn about risks in their environment and build life skills, such as literacy and non-violent conflict resolution, and provide a useful means of mobilizing communities around children’s needs. In an effort to strengthen community systems of child protection, Christian Children's Fund (CCF) established three centres for internally displaced young children in Unyama (Uganda) camp that provided a safe, adult-supervised place for young children between 3 and 6 years of age. War Child established six ‘safe spaces’ in schools in northern Lebanon for displaced Syrian children where counsellors used art and music therapy to help young children express their emotions in a healthy way.\n\nSeveral studies show that children who have participated in quality education programmes within schools tend to have better knowledge of hazards, reduced levels of fear and more realistic risk perceptions than their peers. In such contexts, psychosocial intervention programmes for young children and their families are considered to be vital. Interventions such as storytelling, singing, jumping rope, role-play activities, team sports and writing and drawing exercises helped to reduce psychological distress associated with exposure to conflict-related violence in Sierra Leone for children aged 8 to 18. Studies in Eritrea and Sierra Leone revealed that children’s psychosocial well-being was improved by well-designed educational interventions. In Afghanistan, young children and adolescents gained a sense of stability and security after their involvement in constructive activities (e.g. art, narrative, sports) which took place in neutral safe places within their communities.\n\n\nAttribution:\n"}
{"id": "23867308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23867308", "title": "Chimerica", "text": "Chimerica\n\nChimerica is a neologism and portmanteau coined by Niall Ferguson and Moritz Schularick describing the symbiotic relationship between China and the United States, with incidental reference to the legendary chimera. Though the term is largely in reference to economics, there is also a political element.\n\nHistorian Niall Ferguson and economist Moritz Schularick first coined the term in late 2006, arguing that saving by the Chinese and overspending by Americans led to an incredible period of wealth creation that contributed to the financial crisis of 2007–08. For years, China accumulated large currency reserves and channeled them into US government securities, which kept nominal and real long-term interest rates artificially low in the United States. Ferguson describes Chimerica as one economy which \"accounts for around 13 percent of the world's land surface, a quarter of its population, about a third of its gross domestic product, and somewhere over half of the global economic growth of the past six years.\" He suggests Chimerica could end if China were to decouple from the United States bringing with it a shift in global power and allowing China \"to explore other spheres of global influence, from the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, of which Russia is also a member, to its own informal nascent empire in commodity-rich Africa.\"\n\nThe accumulation of American debt, which has been estimated at over $800 billion, suggests the two nations are intrinsically linked; the economic symbiosis prevalent between the two suggests that separation would harm both countries and be disastrous for the global economy. Another way to measure this integration is the trade deficit. The US trade deficit with China was $295 billion in 2011, meaning the US imported that much more goods and services from China than it exported to China. The Economic Policy Institute estimated that from 2001–2011, 2.7 million US jobs were lost to China. \n\nThe idea of Chimerica features prominently in Ferguson's 2008 book and adapted television documentary \"The Ascent of Money\", which reviews the history of money, credit, and banking.\n\nThe concept of Chimerica supplements and/or supplants \"Nichibei\", or the similarly constructed Japan-U.S. economic model and relationship that had been prominent in years before the development of Chimerica.\n\n"}
{"id": "21219455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21219455", "title": "Chronology of the Shunzhi reign", "text": "Chronology of the Shunzhi reign\n\nThis is a chronicle of important events that took place under the Shunzhi Emperor of the Qing Dynasty (1636–1912) in what is now China. It spans from the death of his predecessor Hong Taiji (r. 1626–1643) in September 1643, to the emperor's own death on 5 February 1661, seven days into the eighteenth year of the Shunzhi reign period. These dates do not correspond perfectly with the Shunzhi era itself, which started on 8 February 1644—on New Year's Day of the lunisolar year following the emperor's accession—and ended on 17 February 1662 (the last day of the 18th year of Shunzhi), more than one solar year after the emperor's death. The posthumous events related to the Shunzhi Emperor's burial and posthumous cult are also included.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55671512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55671512", "title": "Conspiracy against the United States", "text": "Conspiracy against the United States\n\nConspiracy against the United States, or conspiracy to defraud the United States, is a federal offense in the United States of America under . The crime is that of two or more persons who conspire to commit an offense against the United States, or to defraud the United States.\n\n provides that:\n\nIn the 1924 case \"Hammerschmidt v. United States\", the Supreme Court of the United States, in an opinion authored by Chief Justice William Howard Taft, held that \"To conspire to defraud the United States means primarily to cheat the government out of property or money, but it also means to interfere with or obstruct one of its lawful governmental functions by deceit, craft or trickery, or at least by means that are dishonest.\"\n\nThe U.S. Department of Justice's \"United States Attorneys' Manual\", summarizing case law on the statute, states that \"In summary, those activities which courts have held defraud the United States under 18 U.S.C. § 371 affect the government in at least one of three ways: (1) They cheat the government out of money or property; (2) They interfere or obstruct legitimate Government activity; or (3) They make wrongful use of a governmental instrumentality.\" The \"intent required for a conspiracy to defraud the government is that the defendant possessed the intent (a) to defraud, (b) to make false statements or representations to the government or its agencies in order to obtain property of the government, or that the defendant performed acts or made statements that he/she knew to be false, fraudulent or deceitful to a government agency, which disrupted the functions of the agency or of the government.\" The federal courts have held that an \"actual loss to the government of any property or funds\" is not an element of the offense; to secure a conviction, the government must prove \"only that the defendant's activities impeded or interfered with legitimate governmental functions.\" For example, a businessman who used a front company to gain federal subcontracts for bridge construction meant for disadvantaged businesses was convicted under this section.\n\nThe statute has been used in a wide variety of contexts; it is \"a common federal charge, mainly because it can target a wide range of conduct and can be tacked on to other charges.\" Charges of conspiracy against the United States have been brought against al-Qaeda terrorist attack plotters as well as against various Volkswagen AG executives who were charged under the statute in connection with the Volkswagen emissions cheating scandal. Notable persons who have been convicted of conspiracy against the United States include computer hacker Jeanson James Ancheta and former Enron chief executive officer Jeff Skilling. The statute received renewed attention after Paul Manafort (the campaign chair for Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election) and Manafort's associate Rick Gates were indicted on charges of conspiracy against the United States, following an investigation by special counsel Robert Mueller. \n\nOn February 23, 2018, Rick Gates pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy against the United States as well as one count of making false statements.\n\nOn September 14th, 2018, Paul Manafort also pled guilty to one count of conspiracy against the United States and one count of witness tampering.\n"}
{"id": "25976712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25976712", "title": "Crocodile cracking", "text": "Crocodile cracking\n\nCrocodile cracking, also called alligator cracking and perhaps misleadingly fatigue cracking, is a common type of distress in asphalt pavement. The following is more closely related to fatigue cracking which is characterized by interconnecting or interlaced cracking in the asphalt layer resembling the hide of a crocodile. Cell sizes can vary in size up to across, but are typically less than across. Fatigue cracking is generally a loading failure, but numerous factors can contribute to it. It is often a sign of sub-base failure, poor drainage, or repeated over-loadings. It is important to prevent fatigue cracking, and repair as soon as possible, as advanced cases can be very costly to repair and can lead to formation of potholes or premature pavement failure.\n\nIt is usually studied under the transportation section of civil engineering. \n\nFatigue cracking is an asphalt pavement distress most often instigated by failure of the surface due to traffic loading. However, fatigue cracking can be greatly influenced by environmental and other effects while traffic loading remains the direct cause. Frequently, overloading happens because the base or subbase inadequately support the surface layer and subsequently cannot handle loads that it would normally endure. There are many ways that the subbase or base can be weakened.\n\nPoor drainage in the road bed is a frequent cause of this degradation of the base or subgrade. A heavy spring thaw, similarly to poor drainage, can weaken the base course, leading to fatigue cracking. \n\n\"Stripping\" or \"raveling\" is another possible cause of fatigue cracking. Stripping occurs when poor adhesion between asphalt and aggregate allows the aggregate at the surface to dislodge. If left uncorrected, this reduces the thickness of the pavement, reducing the affected portion's ability to carry its designed loading. This can cause fatigue cracking to develop rapidly, as overloading will happen with loads of less magnitude or frequency.\n\nEdge cracking is the formation of crescent-shaped cracks near the edge of a road. It is caused by lack of support of the road edge, sometimes due to poorly drained or weak shoulders. If left untreated, additional cracks will form until it resembles fatigue cracking. Like wheel-path fatigue cracking, poor drainage is a main cause of edge cracking, as it weakens the base, which hastens the deterioration of the pavement. Water ponding (a buildup of water which can also be called puddling) happens more frequently near the edge than in the center of the road path, as roads are usually sloped to prevent in-lane ponding. This leads to excess moisture in the shoulders and subbase at the road edge. Edge cracking differs from fatigue cracking in that the cracks form from the top down, where fatigue cracks usually start at the bottom and propagate to the surface.\n\nFatigue cracking manifests itself initially as longitudinal cracking (cracks along the direction of the flow of traffic) in the top layer of the asphalt. These cracks are initially thin and sparsely distributed. If further deterioration is allowed, these longitudinal cracks are connected by transverse cracks to form sharp sided, prismatic pieces. This interlaced cracking pattern resembles the scales on the back of a crocodile or alligator, hence the nickname, crocodile cracking. \n\nMore severe cases involve pumping of fines, spalling, and loose pieces of pavement. The most severe cases of fatigue cracking often occur with other pavement distresses, but are exemplified by: potholes, large cracks(3/8\" or larger), and severely spalled edges.\n\nThere are many different ways to measure fatigue cracking, but in general a pavement distress manual or index will be used. For example, the Pavement Condition Index is widely used to quantify the overall level of distress and condition of a section of road. Measurement of fatigue cracking specifically (and pavement distress in general) is necessary to determine the overall condition of a road, and for determination of a time-line for rehabilitation and/or repair. There are many other rating systems, and many rating systems currently in use are based on the AASHO Road Test.\n\nThere are two important criteria to take into account when measuring fatigue cracking. The first is the extent of the cracking. This is the amount of road surface area which is affected by this pavement distress. The second criterion is the severity of the cracking. Severity, which has been discussed above, refers to how far the cracking has progressed, and is often directly a function of crack width. Severity may be rated numerically, or given a rating from \"low\" to \"severe\". The rating may be entered into a pavement management system, which will suggest a priority and method for the repair.\n\nSystems have been developed that detect fatigue cracking and other types of pavement distress automatically. They measure the severity and frequency of alligator cracking on the road-path. One such machine is the road surface profilometer, which is mounted on a vehicle and measures the profile of the road surface while it is moving down the roadway.\n\nPreventing fatigue cracking can be as simple as preventing the common causes. For example, reducing overloading on an asphalt pavement or improving drainage can prevent fatigue cracking in many cases. Prevention primarily depends on designing and constructing the pavement and subbase to support the expected traffic loads, and providing good drainage to keep water out of the subbase. \n\nA good strategy to prevent overloading, which is a main cause of fatigue cracking, is to increase the depth of the asphalt layer. According to certain researchers, pavements that exceed a certain minimum strength or thickness can hypothetically handle infinitely many loads without showing structural defects, including fatigue cracking. These pavements are called perpetual pavements or long-term performance pavements (LTPP).\n\nWhen repairing pavement affected by fatigue cracking, the main cause of the distress should be determined. However, often the specific cause is fairly difficult to determine, and prevention is therefore correspondingly difficult. Any investigation should involve digging a pit or coring the pavement and subbase to determine the pavement's structural makeup as well as determining whether or not subsurface moisture is a contributing factor. The repair needed also differs based on the severity and extent of the cracking.\n\nIn the early stages, sealing cracks with crack sealant limits further deterioration of the subgrade due to moisture penetration. Small areas may be repaired by removal of the affected area, and replacement with new base and asphalt surface. Once the damage has progressed or the affected area is large and extensive, a structural asphalt overlay or complete reconstruction is necessary to ensure structural integrity. Proper repair may include first sealing cracks with crack sealant, installing paving fabric over a tack coat, or milling the damaged asphalt. An overlay of hot mix asphalt is then placed over the completed repair. \n\n"}
{"id": "5249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5249", "title": "Crony capitalism", "text": "Crony capitalism\n\nCrony capitalism is an economy in which businesses thrive not as a result of risk, but rather as a return on money amassed through a nexus between a business class and the political class. This is done using state power to crush genuine competition in handing out permits, government grants, special tax breaks, or other forms of state intervention over resources where the state exercises monopolist control over public goods, for example, mining concessions for primary commodities or contracts for public works. Money is then made not merely by making a profit in the market, but through profiteering by \"rent seeking\" using this monopoly or oligopoly. Entrepreneurship and innovative practices, which seek to reward risk are stifled, since the value-added is little by crony businesses as hardly anything of significant value is created by them, with transactions taking the form of \"trading\". Crony capitalism spills over into the government, the politics and the media, when this nexus distorts the economy and affects society to an extent it corrupts public-serving economic, political and social ideals.\n\nThe term \"crony capitalism\" made a significant impact in the public as an explanation of the Asian financial crisis. It is also used to describe governmental decisions favoring \"cronies\" of governmental officials. In this context, the term is often used comparatively with corporate welfare, a technical term often used to assess government bailouts and favoritistic monetary policy, as opposed to the economic theory, described by \"crony capitalism\". The extent of difference between these terms is whether a government action can be said to benefit the individuals rather than the industry.\n\nCrony capitalism exists along a continuum. In its lightest form, crony capitalism consists of collusion among market players which is officially tolerated or encouraged by the government. While perhaps lightly competing against each other, they will present a unified front (sometimes called a trade association or industry trade group) to the government in requesting subsidies or aid or regulation. Newcomers to a market then need to surmount significant \"barriers to entry\" for instance, in seeking loans, acquire shelf space, or receive official sanction. Some such systems are very formalized, such as sports leagues and the Medallion System of the taxicabs of New York City, but often the process is more subtle, such as expanding training and certification exams to make it more expensive for new entrants to enter a market and thereby limit competition. In technological fields, there may evolve a system whereby new entrants may be accused of infringing on patents that the established competitors never assert against each other. In spite of this, some competitors may succeed when the legal barriers are light. \n\nThe term crony capitalism is generally used when these practices come to dominate the economy as a whole or to dominate the most valuable industries in an economy. Intentionally ambiguous laws and regulations are common in such systems. Taken strictly, such laws would greatly impede practically all business; in practice, they are only erratically enforced. The specter of having such laws suddenly brought down upon a business provides incentive to stay in the good graces of political officials. Troublesome rivals who have overstepped their bounds can have the laws suddenly enforced against them, leading to fines or even jail time. Even in high-income democracies with well-established legal systems and freedom of the press in place, a larger state is associated with more political corruption.\n\nThe term \"crony capitalism\" was initially applied to states involved in the 1997 Asian financial crisis such as Thailand and Indonesia. In these cases, the term was used to point out how family members of the ruling leaders become extremely wealthy with no non-political justification. Southeast Asian nations still score very poorly in rankings measuring this. Hong Kong, and Malaysia are perhaps most noted for this, and the term has also been applied to the system of oligarchs in Russia.\nOther states to which the term has been applied include India, in particular, the system after the 1990s liberalization whereby land and other resources were given at throwaway prices in the name of public private partnerships, the more recent coal-gate scam and cheap allocation of land and resources to Adani SEZ under the Congress and BJP governments.\n\nSimilar references to crony capitalism have been made to other countries such as Argentina and Greece. Wu Jinglian, one of China's leading economists and a longtime advocate of its transition to free markets, says that it faces two starkly contrasting futures: a market economy under the rule of law or crony capitalism. A dozen years later, prominent political scientist Pei Minxin had concluded that the latter course had become deeply embedded in China.\n\nMany prosperous nations have also had varying amounts of cronyism throughout their history including the United Kingdom, especially in the 1600s and 1700s, United States, and Japan.\n\n\"The Economist\" benchmarks countries based on a \"crony-capitalism index\" calculated via how much economic activity occurs in industries prone to cronyism. Its 2014 Crony Capitalism Index ranking listed Hong Kong, Russia and Malaysia in the top 3 spots.\n\nCrony capitalism in finance was found in the Second Bank of the United States. It was a private company, but its largest stockholder was the federal government which owned 20%. It was an early bank regulator and grew to be one being the most powerful organizations in the country due largely to being the depository of the government's revenue.\n\nThe Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act in 1999 completely removed Glass-Steagall’s separation between commercial banks and investment banks. After this repeal, commercial banks, investment banks, and insurance companies combined their lobbying efforts. Critics claim this was instrumental in the passage of the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005.\n\nMore direct government involvement in a specific sector can also lead to specific areas of crony capitalism, even if the economy as a whole may be competitive. This is most common in natural resource sectors through the granting of mining or drilling concessions, but it is also possible through a process known as regulatory capture where the government agencies in charge of regulating an industry come to be controlled by that industry. Governments will often, in good faith, establish government agencies to regulate an industry. However, the members of an industry have a very strong interest in the actions of that regulatory body, while the rest of the citizenry are only lightly affected. As a result, it is not uncommon for current industry players to gain control of the \"watchdog\" and to use it against competitors. This typically takes the form of making it very expensive for a new entrant to enter the market. An 1824 landmark U.S. Supreme Court ruling overturned a New York State-granted monopoly (\"a veritable model of state munificence\" facilitated by one of the Founding Fathers, Robert R. Livingston) for the then-revolutionary technology of steamboats. Leveraging the Supreme Court's establishment of Congressional supremacy over commerce, the Interstate Commerce Commission was established in 1887 with the intent of regulating railroad \"robber barons\". President Grover Cleveland appointed Thomas M. Cooley, a railroad ally, as its first chairman and a permit system was used to deny access to new entrants and legalize price fixing.\n\nThe defense industry in the United States is often described as an example of crony capitalism in an industry. Connections with the Pentagon and lobbyists in Washington are described by critics as more important than actual competition, due to the political and secretive nature of defense contracts. In the Airbus-Boeing WTO dispute, Airbus (which receives outright subsidies from European governments) has stated Boeing receives similar subsidies, which are hidden as inefficient defense contracts. Other American defense companies were put under scrutiny for no-bid contracts for Iraq War and Hurricane Katrina related contracts purportedly due to having cronies in the Bush administration.\n\nGerald P. O'Driscoll, former vice president at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, stated that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac became examples of crony capitalism. Government backing let Fannie and Freddie dominate mortgage underwriting. \"The politicians created the mortgage giants, which then returned some of the profits to the pols—sometimes directly, as campaign funds; sometimes as \"contributions\" to favored constituents.\"\n\nIn its worst form, crony capitalism can devolve into simple corruption, where any pretense of a free market is dispensed with. Bribes to government officials are considered \"de rigueur\" and tax evasion is common; this is seen in many parts of Africa, for instance. This is sometimes called plutocracy (rule by wealth) or kleptocracy (rule by theft).\n\nCorrupt governments may favor one set of business owners who have close ties to the government over others. This may also be done with, religious, or ethnic favoritism; for instance, Alawites in Syria have a disproportionate share of power in the government and business there. (President Assad is an Alawite.) This can be explained by considering personal relationships as a social network. As government and business leaders try to accomplish various things, they naturally turn to other powerful people for support in their endeavors. These people form hubs in the network. In a developing country those hubs may be very few, thus concentrating economic and political power in a small interlocking group.\n\nNormally, this will be untenable to maintain in business; new entrants will affect the market. However, if business and government are entwined, then the government can maintain the small-hub network.\n\nRaymond Vernon, specialist in economics and international affairs,\nwrote that the Industrial Revolution began in Great Britain, because they were the first to successfully limit the power of veto groups (typically cronies of those with power in government) to block innovations. \"Unlike most other national environments, the British environment of the early 19th century contained relatively few threats to those who improved and applied existing inventions, whether from business competitors, labor, or the government itself. In other European countries, by contrast, the merchant guilds ... were a pervasive source of veto for many centuries. This power was typically bestowed upon them by government\". For example, a Russian inventor produced a steam engine in 1766 and disappeared without a trace. \"[A] steam powered horseless carriage produced in France in 1769 was officially suppressed.\" James Watt began experimenting with steam in 1763, got a patent in 1769, and began commercial production in 1775.\n\nRaghuram Rajan, former governor of the Reserve Bank of India, has said \"One of the greatest dangers to the growth of developing countries is the middle income trap, where crony capitalism creates oligarchies that slow down growth. If the debate during the elections is any pointer, this is a very real concern of the public in India today.\" Tavleen Singh, columnist for \"The Indian Express\" has disagreed. According to her, India's corporate success is not a product of crony capitalism, but because India is no longer under the influence of crony socialism.\n\nWhile the problem is generally accepted across the political spectrum, ideology shades the view of the problem's causes and therefore its solutions. Political views mostly fall into two camps which might be called the socialist and capitalist critique. The socialist position is that broadly democratic government must regulate economic, or wealthy, interests in order to restrict monopoly. The capitalist position is that \"natural monopolies\" are rare, therefore governmental regulations generally abet established wealthy interests by restricting competition.\n\nCritics of crony capitalism including socialists and anti-capitalists often assert that crony capitalism is the inevitable result of \"any\" strictly capitalist system. Jane Jacobs described it as a natural consequence of collusion between those managing power and trade, while Noam Chomsky has argued that the word \"crony\" is superfluous when describing capitalism. Since businesses make money and money leads to political power, business will inevitably use their power to influence governments. Much of the impetus behind campaign finance reform in the United States and in other countries is an attempt to prevent economic power being used to take political power.\n\nRavi Batra argues that \"all official economic measures adopted since 1981...have devastated the middle class\" and that the Occupy Wall Street movement should push for their repeal and thus end the influence of the super wealthy in the political process, which he considers a manifestation of crony capitalism.\n\nSocialist economists, such as Robin Hahnel, have criticized the term as an ideologically motivated attempt to cast what is in their view the fundamental problems of capitalism as avoidable irregularities. Socialist economists dismiss the term as an apologetic for failures of neoliberal policy and, more fundamentally, their perception of the weaknesses of market allocation.\n\nSupporters of capitalism generally oppose crony capitalism as well, and consider it an aberration brought on by governmental favors incompatible with free market. Proponents of capitalism tend to regard the term as an oxymoron, arguing that crony capitalism is not capitalism at all. In the capitalist view, \"cronyism\" is the result of an excess of interference in the market, which inherently will result in a toxic combination of corporations and government officials running the sector of the economy. Some advocates prefer to equate this problem with terms such as \"corporatocracy\" or \"corporatism, a modern form of mercantilism\" to emphasize that the only way to run a profitable business in such a system is to have help from corrupt government officials.\n\nEven if the initial regulation was well-intentioned (to curb actual abuses), and even if the initial lobbying by corporations was well-intentioned (to reduce illogical regulations), the mixture of business and government stifle competition, a collusive result called regulatory capture. Burton W. Folsom, Jr. distinguishes those that engage in crony capitalism—designated by him \"political entrepreneurs\"—from those who compete in the marketplace without special aid from government, whom he calls \"market entrepreneurs\". The market entrepreneurs, such as Hill, Vanderbilt, and Rockefeller, succeeded by producing a quality product at a competitive price. The political entrepreneurs, for example, Edward Collins in steamships and the leaders of the Union Pacific Railroad in railroads, were men who used the power of government to succeed. They tried to gain subsidies or in some way use government to stop competitors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14245228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14245228", "title": "Croswell Opera House", "text": "Croswell Opera House\n\nThe Croswell Opera House is a historic theater located at 129 East Maumee Street in Adrian, Michigan. It is recognized as the oldest theater in the state and among the oldest continuously operating theaters in the United States. The theater was designated as a Michigan Historic Site on March 2, 1976 and later added to the National Register of Historic Places as the Adrian Union Hall-Croswell Opera House on April 18, 1985.\n\nThe Croswell Opera House, or Adrian Union Hall as it was originally called, was completed in 1866. It was financed by the Adrian Union Hall Company, whose stockholders included future Michigan governor Charles Croswell. Its first public event, taking place on March 19, was a lecture by temperance advocate John Bartholomew Gough.\n\nThe hall served many functions during its early years. It hosted concerts, lectures, festivals, and theatrical performances by both traveling troupes and amateur local groups. Famous speakers who visited the opera house included Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Frederick Douglass, Thomas Nast, Henry Ward Beecher, and Ralph Waldo Emerson. During the 19th century it hosted performances by Edwin Booth, John Philip Sousa, and Buffalo Bill Cody; the early 20th century saw appearances by Mrs. Patrick Campbell and Maude Adams.\n\nThe Croswell has gone by many different names. During its first few years of operation, the local newspaper usually referred to it as \"New Hall.\" Around 1869, it started to be called the Opera House. When Charles Croswell retired as governor in 1881, he returned to Adrian and began buying up shares in the Adrian Union Hall Company, eventually becoming the majority shareholder; he then tasked his son, Charles Croswell Jr., with managing the theater. At this time it became known as Croswell's Opera House. Charles Croswell Jr. gave up the manager's job after his father's death in 1886, but although the possessive was dropped, the name stuck.\n\nA new lobby was added to the original building in 1882. In 1885, the theater's first electric lights were installed — just two of them — and the entire theater was outfitted for electricity in 1895. The lighting apparatus was designed by Harry A. Fee, who is better known for creating Hidden Lake Gardens in nearby Franklin Township. In 1896, to meet the demands of that era's increasingly elaborate theatrical productions, the stage was expanded and the roof above the stage raised.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the Croswell faced increasing competition from movie theaters. It was purchased in 1919 by Harry Angell and Robert Codd, who undertook two major renovations. The first, in 1919, converted the Croswell into a movie house. A long arcade-style lobby was added to the front of the building, as was a projection booth. Then, in 1921, the original balcony was torn out and replaced and the entire auditorium remodeled. It was during this renovation that the Croswell's interior took on its modern appearance.\n\nThe Croswell was leased in 1927 by Butterfield Theatres, which would continue to operate it for the next 40 years. It was wired for sound in 1929; the first talking picture shown was \"Weary River\".\n\nDuring World War II, the Croswell raised more than $1 million for the war effort by holding \"war bond premieres.\" The management would bring in a popular new film, and tickets were not for sale; only a newly purchased war bond would entitle a person to admission. Charity toy drives and children's food matinees were also common.\n\nBy the 1960s, however, the Croswell faced increasing competition from drive-in theaters and television. A theater with about 1,000 seats — the Croswell's capacity at the time — but only one screen was impractical to operate. In March 1967, the Butterfield chain announced it would not renew its lease, and owner Harry Angell put the building up for sale. The last movie of the Butterfield era, \"The Sound of Music\", closed on September 16, 1967.\n\nWith Butterfield's decision to pull out, the Croswell was in danger of being demolished. But Charlie Hickman, the owner of local manufacturing company Brazeway, stepped forward to buy the building, and a new nonprofit organization was chartered to take over its operation. The newly revived Croswell staged its first summer season of live theater in 1968, beginning with a production of Neil Simon's \"Barefoot in the Park\". This was followed by \"Summer and Smoke\", \"Oliver!\", and \"Once More, With Feeling\".\n\nThat fall, a new group, the Croswell Players, was formed to continue offering theater during the fall, winter and spring. Eventually, the Croswell's summer and winter theater programs would merge.\n\nIn 1970, the tradition of bringing high-profile speakers to Adrian to speak at the Croswell was revived. Speakers in the theater's Town Hall series, which ran from 1970 to 1996, included Gloria Steinem, Helen Thomas, Arianna Huffington, Ralph Nader, Julian Bond, Art Linkletter, Jeane Dixon, Bella Abzug, Kitty Carlisle, Charlton Heston, and \"Dear Abby\" author Pauline Phillips.\n\nA capital campaign to renovate the theater was announced in May 2015, with changes to include new public spaces, more restrooms, Americans with Disabilities Act improvements, and electrical and other infrastructure upgrades. Construction began in 2016 and the theater reopened in May 2017.\n\nThe 2017 season will mark the Croswell's 50th summer as a producing theater.\n\nThe Croswell was originally designed by Horatio Nelson White. In 1865, while the theater was still under construction, a correspondent for the Detroit Free Press visited Adrian and gave this description:During this season, notwithstanding the high wages, cost of lumber and all building materials, there have been many fine buildings, dwellinghouses and stores erected. The first one particularly attracting attention on entering the city from the depot is “Union Hall,” a large brick structure erected and owned by a joint-stock company at a cost of $35,000. This building is located on the lower end of Maumee street, and fronts directly on it. It is one hundred and fifteen feet and ten inches deep, by sixty-four feet and four inches wide, and built of such a height that the main hall will finish thirty-two feet in the clear. The principal audience room is at some little distance from the street, and is reached through an arched passage-way, on each side of which is an elegant and commodious store. It is eighty feet in depth and sixty-three feet wide, with a gallery on three sides containing three rows of seats, calculated to seat with comfort fifteen hundred people. In the erection of the gallery a new feature is introduced, which, by means of trusses, braces and iron ties, makes it self-supporting, and entirely does away with the necessity of columns or ungainly brackets to support it. There is a large stage, 30x32 feet, which is fitted up for theatrical exhibitions, with scenery, dressing-rooms, &c. In the arrangement of the scenery, some new ideas are carried out, several of the side scenes folding up, while the principal fines, five in number, are suspended from large cylinders overhead, being hoisted and lowered by means of machinery, completely doing away with the squeaking, rattling and confusion generally attendant upon the shifting and sliding of the different pieces, and as a whole scene is raised or lowered at once, the ridiculous gap often seen in the center of an elegant painting is obviated. In the basement are the furnaces for heating the building, a large storeroom capable of containing all the seats of the hall, when it is cleared for the benefit of those tripping the “light fantastic toe,” and a large dining room, which extends the entire length of the building. The ceiling and walls are to be frescoed, and if finished according to design, will present an elegant and tasteful appearance, reflecting much credit on the designers and owners, and the city. In the erection of the structure there is no attempt at the gaudy or gorgeous, everything in and about it is plain, sold \"[sic.]\" and substantial. It was designed by H. N. White, of Syracuse, New York, and erected under the supervision of Mr. Smith, a master-builder of this city.Writing some time later, local historian R.I. Bonner reported that the Croswell was patterned after Wieting Hall in Syracuse.\n\nThe physical appearance of the Croswell changed several times over the course of the 19th century. A 14-foot addition was built on the front of the theater in 1882, and the stage roof was raised in 1896 to accommodate more elaborate scenery.\n\nThe 1919 and 1921 renovations were directed by architect J.C. Brompton, who also designed the Riviera Theatre in Three Rivers. In 1919, a projection booth was built onto the front of the building and a long arcade-style lobby was added; previously, patrons had to walk down a long alley from Maumee Street and wait outdoors before a show. In 1921, the original horseshoe-shaped balcony was torn out and replaced and the entire interior of the theater was redesigned.\n\nSome of the theater's distinctive features include ornate plaster detailing around the entire auditorium, two tall organ towers on either side of the stage with decorate urns built into them, and large panels on the walls reminiscent of the ones that can be seen in Brompton's RIviera Theatre.\n\nFrom 1921 until the 1970s, only minor changes were made to the Croswell's interior. In 1976, an addition was built on the back of the theater for a scene shop and offices. Two buildings on either side of the Croswell's front lobby were purchased in 1978 and 1979 and added to the theater, becoming space for rehearsals, offices and an art gallery.\n\nThe theater was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1985.\n\nThe Croswell is a producing theater and operates year-round, staging six to eight full-scale musicals per year, along with straight plays, children's theater, and occasional concerts. It is owned by the Croswell Opera House and Fine Arts Association, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit. Its artistic director since 2009 is Jere Righter.\n\nThe majority of shows produced at the Croswell are musicals. A live orchestra, rather than recorded music, is employed for all of the theater's full-length musicals.\n\nThe Croswell's 2017 season will include \"Chitty Chitty Bang Bang\", \"In the\" \"Heights\", \"A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum\", \"Beauty and the Beast\", and \"Meet Me in St. Louis\".\n\nIn addition to established works, the Croswell has premiered several new plays and musicals, including:\nAnother new play, \"Family Digs\", will be produced in October 2017.\n\nThe Croswell offers a number of educational programs, including summer performance and technical theater camps, an all-area high school musical, paid summer internships for college students, and a variety of children's performances.\n\nTheater professionals with a Croswell background include:\n\n"}
{"id": "57463492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57463492", "title": "Death of Katrien De Cuyper", "text": "Death of Katrien De Cuyper\n\nOn the evening of 17 December 1991, Belgian teenager Katrien De Cuyper () disappeared in Antwerp. Six months later, her body was discovered in the port of Antwerp. In 2006, a 35-year-old man from Kessel, who had written to a magazine saying that he was with her on the night she disappeared, was arrested and charged with her kidnapping and murder; he was released after four months due to a lack of evidence. The case remains unsolved.\n\nOn Tuesday, 17 December 1991, Katrien De Cuyper, a fifteen-year-old girl from Brasschaat, went to visit a friend in Lange Lobroekstraat in Antwerp. After the visit, her friend stayed behind and let her walk to the bus stop alone as it was raining. De Cuyper telephoned her parents at 21:30 to tell them she would take the bus home. She missed the bus and was last seen at 22:45 at Les Routiers café on the IJzerlaan, where she made a phone call to an unknown person. On 19 June 1992, her naked, buried body was discovered during groundwork in the port of Antwerp. Investigation showed that she had been strangled.\n\nA month after De Cuyper's body was found, weekly magazine \"\" received a letter from an anonymous sender claiming that they had given her a lift after she missed her bus the night she disappeared. The following October, \"Blik\" received another letter from the same sender, as did De Cuyper's parents the month after. In February 1997, Regina Louf (also known in Belgium as \"\") wrote a letter to police confessing to killing De Cuyper. Louf said that De Cuyper had been held in a castle north of Antwerp in which children would be raped, tortured and killed by what she described as a \"paedophile network\", and that she had been ordered to kill the girl during an orgy. No concrete evidence was found to support Louf's testimony.\n\nIn August 2006, a 35-year-old man from Kessel identified as Karl V.R., who had been arrested for stalking, was charged with the kidnap and murder of De Cuyper. Police searching his house found child pornography on his computer and a box which contained newspaper clippings of articles about De Cuyper's disappearance and murder and copies of the letters sent to \"Blik\" and to her parents in 1992. Furthermore, V.R.'s DNA had been found on the stamp on the envelope of one of the letters. In March 2002, his brother had been sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his ex-girlfriend's boyfriend. V.R. admitted that he wrote the letters but said that they were fabricated and that he only wrote them for publicity. In September 2006, De Cuyper's remains were exhumed for further tests.\n\nOn 19 December 2006, V.R. was released from custody as the investigation had found no evidence against him other than the letters. In 2007, he was sentenced to six months' imprisonment for possession of child pornography.\n"}
{"id": "198007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198007", "title": "Debeaking", "text": "Debeaking\n\nDebeaking is the partial removal of the beak of poultry, especially layer hens and turkeys although it may also be performed on quail and ducks. Most commonly, the beak is shortened permanently, although regrowth can occur. The trimmed lower beak is somewhat longer than the upper beak.\n\nBeak trimming is most common in egg-laying strains of chickens. In some countries, such as the United States, turkeys routinely have their beaks trimmed. In the UK, only 10% of turkeys are beak trimmed. Beak trimming is a preventive measure to reduce damage caused by injurious pecking such as cannibalism, feather pecking and vent pecking, and thereby improve livability. Commercial broiler chickens are not routinely beak trimmed as they reach slaughter weight at approximately 6 weeks of age, i.e. before injurious pecking usually begins. However, broiler breeding stock may be trimmed to prevent damage during mating. In some countries, beak trimming is done as a last resort where alternatives are considered not to be possible or appropriate.\n\nOpponents of beak trimming state that the practice reduces problem pecking by minor amounts compared to the trauma, injury, and harm done to the entire flock by beak trimming. Reduction is in single digit percentiles, whereas improvement of conditions especially in layer colonies will cease problematic behavior entirely.\n\nBeak trimming has been banned in Switzerland since 1992 and has been phased out in Germany in 2017.\n\nIn close confinement, cannibalism, feather pecking and aggression are common among turkeys, ducks, pheasants, quail, and chickens of many breeds (including both heritage breeds and modern hybrids) kept for eggs. The tendency to cannibalism and feather pecking varies among different strains of chickens, but does not manifest itself consistently. Some flocks of the same breed may be entirely free from cannibalism, while others, under the same management, may have a serious outbreak. Mortalities, mainly due to cannibalism, can be up to 15% in egg laying flocks housed in aviaries, straw yards, and free-range systems.\n\nBecause egg laying strains of chickens can be kept in smaller group sizes in caged systems, cannibalism is reduced leading to a lowered trend in mortality as compared to non-cage systems. Cannibalism among flocks is highly variable and when it is not problematic, then mortalities among production systems are similar.\n\nBeak trimming was developed at the Ohio Experiment Station in the 1930s. The original technique was temporary, cutting approximately 6 mm (1/4 inch) off the beak. It was thought that the tip of the beak had no blood supply and presumably no sensation. The procedure was performed by hand with a sharp knife, either when deaths due to cannibalism became excessive, or when the problem was anticipated because of a history of cannibalism in the particular strain of chicken.\n\nCannibalism is a serious management problem dating back to the periods before intensive housing of poultry became popular. Poultry books written before vertical integration of the poultry industry describe the abnormal pecking of poultry:\n\nChicks and adult birds' picking at each other until blood shows and then destroying one another by further picking is a source of great loss in many flocks, especially when kept in confinement ... The recommendation of the Ohio Experiment Station of cutting back the tip of the upper beak has been found to be effective until the beak grows out again.\nCannibalism has two peaks in the life of a chicken; during the brooding period and at the onset of egg laying. The point-of-lay cannibalism is generally the most damaging and gets most of the attention. The temporary beak trimming developed at the Ohio Experiment Station assumed that cannibalism was a phase, and that blunting the beak temporarily would be adequate.\n\nIn recent years, the aim has been to develop more permanent beak trimming (although repeat trimming may be required), using electrically heated blades in a beak trimming machine, to provide a self-cauterizing cut. There are currently (2012) four widely used methods of beak trimming: hot blade, cold blade (including scissors or secateurs), electrical (the Bio-beaker) and infrared. The latter two methods usually remove only the tip of the beak and do not leave an open wound, therefore they may offer improvements in welfare. Other approaches such as the use of lasers, freeze drying and chemical retardation have been investigated but are not in widespread use. The infrared method directs a strong source of heat into the inner tissue of the beak and after a few weeks, the tip of the upper and lower beak dies and drops off making the beak shorter with blunt tips. The Bio-beaker, which uses an electric current to burn a small hole in the upper beak, is the preferred method for trimming the beaks of turkeys. The Farm Animal Welfare Council (FAWC) wrote regarding beak trimming of turkeys that cold cutting was the most accurate method, but that substantial re-growth of the beak occurred; although the Bio-beaker limited beak re-growth, it was less accurate. It was considered that the hot cut was the most distressing procedure for turkeys.\n\nIn the UK, beak trimming of layer hens normally occurs at 1-day of age at the same time as the chick is being sexed and vaccinated.\n\nUSA's UEP guidelines suggest that in egg laying strains of chickens, the length of the upper beak distal from the nostrils that remains following trimming, should be 2 to 3 mm. In the UK, the Farm Animal Welfare Council stated: \"The accepted procedure is to remove not more than one third of the upper and lower beaks or not more than one third of the upper beak only\" but went on to recommend: \"Where beak trimming is carried out, it should, wherever possible, be restricted to beak tipping; that is the blunting of the beak to remove the sharp point which can be the cause of the most severe damage to other birds.\"\n\nBeak trimming is banned in the Australian Capital Territory. It is currently debated in parliament whether debeaking should be banned in Victoria and New South Wales.\n\nBeak trimming was used in Denmark until 2014 when it was phased out and made illegal.\n\nBeak trimming is illegal in these countries.\n\nAgriculture Minister Christian Meyer announced that Germany would phase out beak trimming by 2017 due to animal welfare concerns.\n\nThe costs of beak trimming relate primarily to welfare concerns. These include acute stress, and acute, possibly chronic, pain following trimming. A bird’s ability to consume food is impaired following beak trimming because of the new beak shape and pain. Most studies report reduced body weights and feed intake following beak trimming, however, by sexual maturity or peak egg production, growth rates are usually normal. Weight losses were reduced in chicks that were beak trimmed by infrared compared with chicks trimmed by a hot-blade.\n\nWhether beak trimming causes pain is a hotly debated concern. It is a complex issue as it may involve acute and/or chronic pain, and depends on the age it is performed, the method of trimming and the length of beak that is removed.\nBeak trimming in the poultry industry usually occurs without anaesthetic at 1-day of age or when the chicks are very young, but can occur at a later age if an outbreak of feather pecking occurs, and in some cases, birds may be beak trimmed on repeated occasions. Beak trimming is not permitted in the UK on meat chickens that are aged over 10 days.\n\nThe beak is a complex, functional organ with an extensive nervous supply including nociceptors that sense pain and noxious stimuli. These would almost certainly be stimulated during beak trimming, indicating strongly that acute pain would be experienced. Behavioural evidence of pain after beak trimming in layer hen chicks has been based on the observed reduction in pecking behavior, reduced activity and social behavior, and increased sleep duration. In Japanese quail, beak-trimming by cauterization caused lower body weights and feed intake in the period just after beak trimming. Beak trimmed Muscovy ducks spent less time engaging in beak-related behaviours (preening, feeding, drinking, exploratory pecking) and more time resting than non-trimmed ducks in the days immediately post-trim. These differences disappeared by 1 week post-trim. At 1 week post-trim the trimmed ducks weighed less than non-trimmed ducks, but this difference disappeared by 2 weeks post-trim. It is, however, unclear if the above changes in behaviour arise from pain or from a loss of sensitivity in the beak. Pecking force has been found to decrease after beak trimming in adult hens possibly indicating that hens are protecting a painful area from further stimulation. However, pecking force did not differ between chicks with or without minor beak-trims at 2 to 9 days of age, suggesting that chicks with minor beak-trims do not experience pain from the beak.\n\nSevere beak trimming, or beak trimming birds at an older age is thought to cause chronic pain. Following beak trimming of older or adult hens, the nociceptors in the beak stump show abnormal patterns of neural discharge, which indicate acute pain. Neuromas, tangled masses of swollen regenerating axon sprouts, are found in the healed stumps of birds beak trimmed at 5 weeks of age or older and in severely beak trimmed birds. Neuromas have been associated with phantom pain in human amputees and have therefore been linked to chronic pain in beak trimmed birds. If beak trimming is severe because of improper procedure or done in older birds, the neuromas will persist which suggests that beak trimmed older birds experience chronic pain, although this has been debated.\n\nThe benefits of beak trimming are mainly welfare advantages for birds kept in close confinement, some of which directly relate to increases (or reduced decreases) in production. These include reduced feather pecking and cannibalism, better feathering (though they find it hard to preen with shortened beaks, which means they are not cleaning themselves well), less fearfulness and nervousness, less chronic stress, and decreased mortality.\n\nA range of options have been proposed as possible alternatives to beak trimming including modifying the genetics of domesticated poultry to reduce cannibalistic tendencies. For confined housing where light control is possible, lowering light intensity so that birds cannot see each other as easily reduces antagonistic encounters and aggressive behaviour. Enrichment devices, introduced at an early age, such as simple objects hung in a habitat, can reduce aggressive behavior. Dividing the population into smaller group sizes reduces cannibalism. Proper body weight management that avoids underweight pullets reduces the probability of underweight pullets with uterine prolapse that leads to cloacal cannibalism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28597227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28597227", "title": "DrinkExchange", "text": "DrinkExchange\n\nDrinkExchange was a monthly social and business networking party started in San Francisco, California during the dot com bubble.\n\nThe event was started in February, 1997 by Ali Partovi, co-founder of the Internet firm LinkExchange, and his roommate-coworkers Alan Shusterman and Mike Bayle, who were initially looking to find ways to improve their social life. The format was humorously based on LinkExchange's early ad exchange model (though not formally affiliated with the company), by which web publishers could trade two outgoing \"clicks\" on banner ads placed on their site for one visitor backlink from other publishers. At the events, participants were encouraged to buy two alcoholic drinks, and give one to a fellow guest.\n\nInvitations to the initial event, held at the local Gordon Biersch brewery, were in the form of a mock product announcement press release from LinkExchange, which ended up becoming a local viral email phenomenon and attracting seventy guests. Later events drew more than one thousand participants each, included corporate sponsorships, and eventually spread to Tokyo, Sydney, London, Hong Kong, San Diego, and Washington, DC. The parties continued until the \"dot com crash\" of 2001.\n"}
{"id": "599325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=599325", "title": "Fact sheet", "text": "Fact sheet\n\nA fact sheet, factsheet, fact file or (in some industries) one-sheet is a presentation of data in a format which emphasizes key points concisely, usually using tables, bullet points and/or headings, on a single printed page.\n\nFact sheets often contain product information, technical data, lists, statistics, answers to common questions (e.g. FAQs), educational material, or how-to, \"do-it-yourself\" advice. They are sometimes a summary of a longer document.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18542923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18542923", "title": "Google Code Jam", "text": "Google Code Jam\n\nGoogle Code Jam is an international programming competition hosted and administered by Google. The competition began in 2003 as a means to identify top engineering talent for potential employment at Google. The competition consists of a set of algorithmic problems which must be solved in a fixed amount of time. Competitors may use any programming language and development environment to obtain their solutions. From 2003 to 2007, Google Code Jam was deployed on Topcoder's platform and had quite different rule. Since 2008 Google has developed their own dedicated infrastructure for the contest.\n\nStarting from 2015, Google also runs Distributed Code Jam, with the focus on distributed algorithms. This is run in parallel with the regular Code Jam, with its own qualification and final round, for a top prize of $10,000, but is only open for people who qualify to Round 2 of Code Jam (up to 3000 people).\n\nSeveral Google Code Jam problems have lead to academic research.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42613099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42613099", "title": "Grease: Live", "text": "Grease: Live\n\nGrease: Live (stylized as Grease LIVE!) is a television special that was originally broadcast by Fox on January 31, 2016. It was a live, televised remake of the 1978 film \"Grease\", executive produced by Marc Platt, directed by Thomas Kail, and starring Julianne Hough, Aaron Tveit, Vanessa Hudgens and Carlos PenaVega.\n\nPatterned on similar live television musicals that had recently been produced by NBC, the production incorporated elements and songs from both the original stage musical and the 1978 film version of \"Grease\", as well as additional songs that were not present in either. In an effort to emulate the \"energy\" of a theatrical setting, live audiences were incorporated into the production's stagings. \"Grease: Live\" was broadcast from Warner Bros. Studios, utilizing two soundstages and the studio's outdoor backlot—the usage of the latter was notably affected by rain in the Los Angeles area on the day of the broadcast.\n\nCritical reception was positive, with particular praise to the overall atmosphere and production style of the presentation, as well as the performances of the cast, particularly Hudgens as Betty Rizzo—the special was dedicated in the memory of Hudgens' father, who had died from cancer one day prior to the broadcast. The special was nominated for ten Primetime Emmy Awards and won a total of five including Outstanding Special Class Program.\n\nOn April 28, 2014, Fox announced that it had partnered with Paramount Television to produce a live, three-hour televised adaptation of the 1971 musical \"Grease\" in 2015. The move came in the wake of similar live musical adaptations that had been produced by NBC, such as \"The Sound of Music Live!\" and \"Peter Pan Live!\".\n\nOn January 17, 2015, Fox officially announced that Julianne Hough had been cast as Sandy and Vanessa Hudgens as Rizzo and that the special would air on January 31, 2016. \"Entertainment Weekly\" reported that the special had been delayed from its original target of Summer 2015 due to difficulties in the casting process. On May 28, 2015, it was announced that Keke Palmer would join the broadcast as Marty Maraschino, one of the Pink Ladies. On July 9, it was announced that Aaron Tveit would star as Danny Zuko in the live TV broadcast, and Carlos PenaVega would play the role of Kenickie. On September 30, 2015, it was announced that Carly Rae Jepsen, Kether Donohue, and David Del Rio would play Frenchy, Jan, and Putzie, respectively. On November 6, it was announced that Jordan Fisher, Andrew Call and Yvette Gonzalez-Nacer would join the cast as Doody, Sonny and Cha-Cha, respectively.\n\nDirector Thomas Kail envisioned \"Grease: Live\" as being a \"combination\" of elements from the original musical and the 1978 film version of \"Grease\". For instance, the production incorporated songs that were created for the film version, such as a performance of its theme song \"Grease (Is The Word)\" by Jessie J, \"You're the One That I Want\", and \"Hopelessly Devoted to You\", as well as songs that were exclusive to the stage version, such as \"Freddy, My Love\" and \"Those Magic Changes\". Kail explained that \"very early on as I started imagining what this could be, talking to Marc Platt, our executive producer, and the folks at Paramount, one of the things we really were very focused on was trying to capture the spirit of both the original companies of \"Grease\" and that film that has left such an indelible impression on all of us. To try to honor that and pay homage to something that has moved us and we have such a great affection for, and then try to make our own version of it.\"\n\nThe production also contained several new songs including the original, \"All I Need Is an Angel\", which was written for the character of Frenchy (Carly Rae Jepsen) by Tom Kitt and Brian Yorkey of \"Next to Normal\" fame. Joe Jonas's band DNCE made a cameo appearance as Johnny Casino and The Gamblers during the Rydell High dance where they performed The Crickets' \"Maybe Baby\", as well as a 1950s-inspired remix of their own debut single \"Cake by the Ocean\" in addition to \"Born to Hand Jive\" from the stage version and \"Rock and Roll Is Here to Stay\" which was previously only part of the film version. In an interview with \"Rolling Stone\", Jonas explained that the band was approached by the producers for the role following a concert they had performed in New York City.\n\n\"Grease: Live\" was broadcast from Warner Bros. in Burbank, California, using two soundstages, half of its backlot, and 44 cameras. Set designer David Korins explained that the medium of a live, television musical would \"really show off what theater does best, and also what film and television does best\", having constructed a self-contained \"cafegymatorium\" set that is designed to provide an \"immersive\", 360-degree experience, as well as traditional theatrical-style stagings. \"Grease: Live\" was presented to live studio audiences at each of the three filming locations, who were also directly integrated into relevant scenes as extras on-stage, such as in crowds. Kail explained that he wanted to capture the \"feeling\" of the audiences at live stage productions, as there was \"an energy and an undeniable vitality that real humans give back to real humans that are performing\". \"The Hollywood Reporter\" believed that the use of live audiences would help to stylistically distinguish \"Grease: Live\" from the NBC live musicals that it was patterned after.\n\nThe price of a 30-second commercial during \"Grease: Live\" was set between $300,000 and $320,000. Coca-Cola was signed on as a major sponsor of the special; the sponsorship included product placement of classic Coca-Cola signage and beverages within the special (such as on a vending machine and on the diner set), and sponsored social media content. In order to be appropriate for broadcast television and to appease advertisers, several songs were edited for content; Platt stated that his goal was to make \"Grease: Live\" a \"family-friendly\" show, but still wanted to maintain \"the appropriate edge\" the musical required. Among the edits, \"Greased Lightnin'\" changed the lyrics to remove several profane and sexual words (edits that original songwriter Jim Jacobs had made to the officially licensed versions many years prior), while the Italian profanity \"fongool\" was replaced with \"be cool\" within \"Look At Me, I'm Sandra Dee\".\n\nThe use of outdoor sets for portions of the production led to concerns that it could be affected by weather, especially in the wake of forecasts calling for a 100% chance of precipitation and possible thunderstorms on the day of the telecast. Kail stated that the production did have contingency plans in the event of rain, while Platt stated that his team had factored the possibility of rain into its plans for \"many months\", and that while safety was the highest priority, the show would still go on, rain or shine.\n\nWhile prepared for the possibility of rain, wind was also a major factor: at around 3:00 p.m. PT, an hour before the telecast went live, Platt was informed that a particular structure on the outdoor set could not be used for safety reasons. By 3:40 p.m. PT, while the team was in the process of re-staging the opening number to exclude the structure, the rain and wind passed, and engineers cleared the use of the structure—allowing a return to the original staging. The broadcast would ultimately feature references to the conditions: emcee Mario Lopez jokingly introduced \"El Niño\" as being a \"special guest\", while the opening number, \"Grease (Is the Word)\", was performed with the cast holding umbrellas, and during a discussion about having a live broadcast at Rydell High, Principal McGee (Ana Gasteyer) quipped, \"Let's just hope it doesn't rain.\"\n\nOn the day of the broadcast, Vanessa Hudgens announced on Twitter that her father, Greg, had died of cancer the night before, and that she would dedicate her performance in \"Grease: Live\" to his memory. Platt told \"Entertainment Weekly\" that he was \"fiercely proud\" of Hudgens' handling of the situation, describing her as a \"very determined young woman\" who \"knows that the show has to go on, as any actor of the theater or in a live event knows. So she decided she would take her feelings of loss and sadness and put them in a box for that afternoon, that she would use them to fuel her performance and she would do it in honor of her father.\" Additionally, Fox and Paramount allowed the production to be dedicated in memory of Greg; Platt went on to say that \"the cast was behind her and we all joined hands and said, 'We're going to live in this moment. Sometimes life interferes. But you have all worked so hard for this moment and we're going to go for it.'\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe official soundtrack album, Grease: Live - Music from the Television Event, was released on January 31 by Paramount Pictures. The Target edition, including four bonus tracks, was released on March 4. In the show, 23 songs were performed, but only 19 were included in the official soundtrack. \"Alma Mater\" (performed by Ana Gasteyer and Haneefah Wood) and \"Mooning\" (performed by DNCE) were not included in any version of the album.\n\nThe album debuted at number 37 on the US \"Billboard\" 200, earning 13,000 album-equivalent units in its first week, with just over 9,000 coming from pure sales. It also debuted at number 1 the same week on the Top Album Sales chart.\n\n\"Grease: Live\" received mostly positive reviews. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes listed the special with a 91% rating based on 34 reviews, and an average rating of 8.3/10. The website's critical consensus states that \"\"Grease: Live\" took the pressure and threw away conventionality — it belongs to yesterday. There was a chance that it could make it so far; we started believin' we can be who we are. \"Grease: Live\" is the word.\" Metacritic listed a weighted average of 74 out of 100 based on 22 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews.\"\n\nMegan Vick of \"TV Guide\" felt that Kail had \"upped the standard\" for live television musicals, and had \"successfully managed to combine all the nostalgic elements of \"Grease\" that everyone expected while creating a new experience. The set changes and scale of what they were able to accomplish—in a rainstorm no less—were incredibly impressive. Grease is the word, and ratings most likely will be too.\" While praising \"All I Need Is an Angel\" for demonstrating Carly Rae Jepsen's capabilities as a singer, Vick felt that the song was too modern for a musical that is set in the 1950s.\n\nJeremmy Gerald of \"Deadline Hollywood\" noted that \"Grease: Live\" was broadcast \"with nary a hitch and one last-minute change in the out-of-doors opening number that paid tribute to the greatest movie musical of all time, \"Singin' in the Rain\"\". Acknowledging that none of NBC's live musicals had \"hit the stratospheric highs of this show\", aspects of the production were praised, such as the live audiences and stage design. Vanessa Hudgens was judged to have \"stolen\" the show, and that Aaron Tveit and Julianne Hough \"couldn't be better matched as the head of the T Birds and the sweet new girl from Utah.\" In conclusion, Gerald felt that he had \"never seen a more inventive interplay between a show and just enough of the mechanics of the deal to make it all the more engaging. That, and the audience that played its essential part in moving \"Grease Live\" along with enthusiastic applause replacing the dead air that followed key moments in the earlier live broadcasts, set a new standard for this kind of presentation that will be tough to top.\"\n\n\"Variety\"s Maureen Ryan felt that the performance of Hough and Tveit was weak, explaining that \"when Danny has all the presence of a glass of milk and even the black-clad Sandy of the final scenes exudes all the sexual danger of a church choir director, well, rest assured that those concerned about the \"Grease\" legacies of Travolta and Olivia Newton-John have nothing to worry about.\" Despite this and other shortcomings, such as audio issues during \"Hopelessly Devoted to You\", and the \"surreality\" of the audience's presence in certain scenes, Ryan felt \"Grease: Live\" got \"most of the big things right\", and that \"by incorporating a live audience, using creative staging and employing energetic camera work\", the production \"boasted an impressive sense of momentum and even spontaneity.\" Of the individual performances, Ryan praised Keke Palmer's, Hudgens', and Carly Rae Jepsen's vocal performances, Elle McLemore's \"simply terrific\" Patty, Kether Donahue's \"infectious joy\", and Ana Gasteyer's \"beautifully droll timing\" as Principal McGee. She concluded that \"If Fox can get the lead casting right in future and snag Kail again, audiences will surely be hopelessly devoted to the network’s next live endeavor.\" Writing in \"USA Today\", Robert Bianco noted various positive and negative aspects of the broadcast. While he praised performances by the supporting cast, he lamented \"the progressive dumbing-down of the material. A Broadway musical that originally spoofed our rose-tinted-glasses view of the '50s has turned into a nostalgic wallow, leaving the show with an odd mix of tones – and in this particular version, a book that sometimes seemed to get lost between songs and inside jokes. ... it was often so flatly acted\" that the \"kinetic\", \"visually impressive\" musical numbers came as a \"much-needed relief\". Nevertheless, he felt that the production \"sprang to life at the end.\"\n\n\"Grease: Live\" was seen by 12.18 million viewers, with a 4.3/13 share in the 18–49 demographic, making it the most-watched program of the night. The special brought Fox its best ratings of the 2015–16 television season since the second season premiere of \"Empire\" in September 2015, which was seen by 16.18 million viewers. The overall and demographic ratings also beat NBC's December 2015 presentation of \"The Wiz Live!\", with 6% higher viewership overall, and 30% higher 18-49 ratings. While both competed against NFL games, \"The Wiz\" competed against a regular-season \"Thursday Night Football\" game on CBS, and \"Grease\" against the Pro Bowl on ESPN. Over 1.2 million Twitter posts were made throughout the airing, with most providing condolences for Hudgens' father. An encore of \"Grease: Live\" on March 27, 2016, Easter Sunday, was seen by 1.54 million viewers.\n\nTiVo Inc. estimated that Hudgens' solo of \"There Are Worse Things I Could Do\" was the most replayed scene of the special.\n\nIn Canada, \"Grease: Live\" was aired by CTV, in simulcast with the Fox broadcast. The special aired on February 2 in Australia (Nine Network), February 3 in the United Kingdom (ITV2), February 5 in New Zealand (TV3), February 7 in Norway (FEM), February 20 in Denmark (TV2 Fri), and in Italy March 3 (subtitled), August 21 (dubbed) (Rai 4). In Latin America, it was broadcast by FOX Family on April 24, 2016. It was broadcast in Sweden by the public service network (SVT1) on June 12, 2016. It was broadcast in The Netherlands by RTL 8 on July 22, 2016. In Singapore, it was broadcast on Mediacorp Channel 5 on Christmas night, December 25, 2016. In France, it was broadcast on 6ter on December 26, 2016.\n\n\"Grease: Live\" was released on DVD and Digital HD, on March 8, 2016. It was included in the 40th anniversary collection Blu-ray alongside \"Grease\" and \"Grease 2\", which was released on April 24, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "34167156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34167156", "title": "Greek financial audits, 2009–10", "text": "Greek financial audits, 2009–10\n\nAudits of Greece's public finances during the period 2009–2010 were undertaken by the EU authorities. Since joining the Euro zone, Greece's public finances markedly deviated from the debt and deficit limits set by Stability and Growth Pact.\n\nAgainst this backdrop, a 2004 external audit exposed creative accounting practices understating the problem, putting the EU authorities on alert thereafter. In 2009, the Greek government-debt crisis developed, and the EU authorities suspected again a lack of credibility in its book keeping, hence the audits.\n\nThis caused political and financial market turmoil. For instance, it reignited a controversy about Greece's off-market swaps contracted with Goldman Sachs in 2001. The accounts for the period 2006–2009, including debt and deficits levels, were regularized. The lasting effects were institutional changes in Greece and at the EU level in the area of fiscal data. There remains, nonetheless, an ongoing controversy about methodological issued that affected the extent of revisions.\n\nAs part of an excessive deficit procedure (EDP), the Greek authorities submitted to Eurostat, in October 2009, unusually high upward revisions of the deficit and debt data for the period 2005–2008. ECOFIN commissioned an audit, known as an 'EDP methodological visit'. It began in November 2009, and its results were published in a report dated 8 January 2010.\n\nAccording to this report, Eurostat could not validate Greece's fiscal data, exposing Greece's sub par statistical ability and accountability, relative to other member states. This came despite a reinforced EU legal framework for fiscal data following the episode of the 2004 Greek financial audit. At the request of ECOFIN, Eurostat followed up with a series of EDP methodological visits during 2010, in cooperation with the Greek authorities. As part of this initiative, the Hellenic Statistical Authority (ELSTAT) was established as an independent authority subject to the control of the Greek Parliament. EDP notification tables are required to be published in April and October by each member state.\n\nIn the case of Greece, the April 2010 notification contained revised fiscal data for 2006–2009, but with remaining reservations in these areas: statistical classification of public corporations, off-market swaps, social security funds, unaudited budget amounts and payables. These were addressed in the October 2010 EDP notification, a significant revision. However, residual uncertainties, notably for the year 2009, called for another visit, known as \"extended\". Its outcome is the November 2010 EDP notification (outside the statutory schedule), which is published in a comprehensive report concluding that \"revised data for 2006-2009 are sufficiently reliable for EDP purposes\". An accompanying information note was published around the same time.\n\nThe methodology of revisions, according to which the cost of aforementioned previous actions such as cross currency swaps, was retroactively added to the 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 budget deficits, along with the deficits of several legal entities from the non-financial corporations in the General Government sector, has lead to a certain controversy, with the former head of Greece's statistical agency being accused of inflating these years' budget deficits . Nonetheless, the combined corrections lead to an increase of the Greek debt by about 10% (see below).\n\nWe use the convention that a positive deficit means a negative government balance, and conversely The following abbreviations (shown in parenthesis) are used: local government (LG) and central government (CG) and social security funds (SSF). These add up to a total known as \"General government\". We use the convention that 1,000.1 means one thousand and one tenth.\n\nThe variation in the published values of general government debt (the total), between the April and the November EDP notifications, is entirely attributable to CG. Hence only the breakdown for the deficit is reproduced below.\n\n"}
{"id": "5103965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5103965", "title": "Highgate Vampire", "text": "Highgate Vampire\n\nThe Highgate Vampire was a media sensation surrounding reports of supposed supernatural activity at Highgate Cemetery in London in the 1970s.\n\nMany popular books on ghosts, like the book called \"The Highgate Vampire\", mention a vampire which reportedly haunted Highgate Cemetery in the early 1970s. The growth of its reputation, which can be traced through contemporary media reports and subsequent books by two participants, Seán Manchester and David Farrant, is an example of modern legend-building. The most academic account is given by a folklore scholar, Professor Bill Ellis, in the journal \"Folklore\". He writes from the viewpoint of sociological legend study; this concerns public perceptions of a real or purported event, and how these are shaped into a narrative by processes of rumour, selection, exaggeration and stereotyping.\n\nOther narratives which treat these purported happenings as fact are available in the books and websites of Seán Manchester and David Farrant.\n\nThe publicity was initiated by a group of young people interested in the occult who began roaming the overgrown and dilapidated cemetery in the late 1960s, a time when it was being heavily vandalised by intruders.\nOn 21 December 1969 one of their members, David Farrant, spent the night there, according to his account written in 1991. In a letter to the \"Hampstead and Highgate Express\" on 6 February 1970, he wrote that when passing the cemetery on 24 December 1969 he had glimpsed \"a grey figure\", which he considered to be supernatural, and asked if others had seen anything similar. On the 13th, several people replied, describing a variety of ghosts said to haunt the cemetery or the adjoining Swains Lane. These ghosts were described as a tall man in a hat, a spectral cyclist, a woman in white, a face glaring through the bars of a gate, a figure wading into a pond, a pale gliding form, bells ringing, and voices calling. \nHardly two correspondents gave the same story.\n\nAccording to a report in the \"London Evening News\" of 2 November 1968:\n\nThough the identities and motivations of those responsible were never ascertained, general consensus at the time linked the desecration to events surrounding the Highgate Vampire case.\n\nA second local man, the extremely unhinged Seán Manchester, was just as keen as Farrant to identify and eliminate what he and Farrant believed was a supernatural entity in the cemetery. The \"Hampstead and Highgate Express\" reported him on 27 February 1970 as saying that he believed that 'a King Vampire of the Undead', a medieval nobleman who had practised black magic in medieval Wallachia (Romania), had been brought to England in a coffin in the early eighteenth century, by followers who bought a house for him in the West End. He was buried on the site that later became Highgate Cemetery, and Manchester claimed that modern Satanists had roused him. He said the right thing to do would be to stake the vampire's body, and then behead and burn it, but this would nowadays be illegal. The paper headlined this: \"Does a Vampyr walk in Highgate?\"\n\nManchester later claimed, however, that the reference to \"a King Vampire from Wallachia\" was a journalistic embellishment. Nevertheless, the 1985 edition of his book also speaks of an unnamed nobleman's body brought to Highgate in a coffin from somewhere in Europe.\n\nIn his interview of 27 February, Manchester offered no evidence in support of his theory. The following week, on 6 March, the same paper reported David Farrant as saying he had seen dead foxes in the cemetery, \"and the odd thing was there was no outward sign of how they died.\" When told of this, Manchester said it seemed to complement his theory. In later writings, both men reported seeing other dead foxes with throat wounds and drained of blood.\n\nFarrant was more hesitant in identifying the phenomenon he had seen. In some interviews he called it simply a ghost or spectre, sometimes he agreed that it might be vampiric. It is the \"vampire\" label which has stuck.\n\nThe ensuing publicity was enhanced by a growing rivalry between Farrant and Manchester, each claiming that he could and would expel or destroy the spectre. Manchester declared to his associates that he would hold an \"official\" vampire hunt on Friday 13 March—such Fridays are always ominous dates in British and North American superstition (Friday the Thirteenth), and are frequently chosen for items on occult matters in the media. ITV then set up interviews with both Manchester and Farrant, and with others who claimed to have seen supernatural figures in the cemetery. These were broadcast on ITV early on the evening of the 13th; within two hours a mob of 'hunters' from all over London and beyond swarmed over gates and walls into the locked cemetery, despite police efforts to control them.\n\nIn later years, Manchester wrote his own account of his doings that night (\"The Highgate Vampire\" 1985; 2nd rev. ed. 1991). According to his narrative, he and some companions entered the cemetery, unobserved by the police, via the damaged railings of an adjoining churchyard, and tried to open the door of one particular catacomb to which a supposedly psychic sleepwalking girl had previously led him; but try as they might, it would not budge an inch. Failing in this, they climbed down on a rope through an existing hole in its roof, finding empty coffins into which they put garlic, and sprinkling holy water around.\n\nSome months later, on 1 August 1970 (Lammas Day), the charred and headless remains of a woman's body were found not far from the catacomb. The police suspected that it had been used in black magic. Soon after this incident, there was a noticeable surge in both Farrant's and Manchester's activities. Farrant was found by police in the churchyard beside Highgate Cemetery one night in August, carrying a crucifix and a wooden stake. He was arrested, but when the case came to court it was dismissed.\n\nA few days later Manchester returned to Highgate Cemetery, but in the daytime, when visits are allowed. Again, we must depend on his own published book for an account of his actions, since neither press nor police were present. He claims that this time he and his companions did succeed in forcing open, inch by inch, the heavy and rusty iron doors of a family vault (indicated by his female psychic helper). He lifted the massive lid off one coffin, believing it to have been mysteriously transferred there from the previous catacomb. He was about to drive a stake through the body it contained when a companion persuaded him to desist. Reluctantly, he shut the coffin, put garlic and incense in the vault, and came out from it.\n\nA later chapter of Manchester's book claims that three years afterwards he discovered a vampiric corpse (he implies that it was the same one) in the cellar of an empty house in the Highgate/Hornsey area, and staked and burned it.\n\nManchester's story is full of melodramatic details mirroring the Dracula mythos: the sleepwalking girl; the vampire transported to England in a coffin; a coffined corpse \"gorged and stinking with the life-blood of others\", with fangs and burning eyes; his own role as a Van Helsing figure. If he did indeed act as he describes, it can be regarded as a good example of what folklorists (following terminology established by Linda Degh) now call \"ostension\" and legend tripping. This means the real-life imitation of elements from a well-known tale, often involving role-playing, and sometimes leading to ritual acts of vandalism and desecration.\n\nThere was more publicity about Farrant and Manchester when rumours spread that they would meet in a \"magicians' duel\" on Parliament Hill on Friday 13 April 1973, which never came off. Farrant was jailed in 1974 for damaging memorials and interfering with dead remains in Highgate Cemetery—vandalism and desecration which he insisted had been caused by Satanists, not him. Both episodes kept memories of the Highgate affair vivid. In 1975 Manchester wrote a chapter about it in a book edited by Peter Underwood, a well-known popular writer on ghost lore. The Highgate Vampire is now regularly featured in books and internet sites on occult subjects.\n\nThe feud between Manchester and Farrant remains vigorous to this day; each claims to be a competent exorcist and researcher of the paranormal; each pours scorn on the other's alleged expertise. They continue to investigate supposed supernatural phenomena, and have both written and spoken repeatedly about the Highgate events, in every medium available, each stressing his own role to the exclusion of the other.\n\nIn her book, \"Blood Lust: Conversations with Real Vampires\", published by HarperCollins in 1991, author Carol Page describes her lengthy interview with Seán Manchester, further questioning his credibility and describes his self-proclaimed activities as \"the real evil in Highgate Cemetery.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "659895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=659895", "title": "Jerry Springer: The Opera", "text": "Jerry Springer: The Opera\n\nJerry Springer: The Opera is a British musical written by Richard Thomas and Stewart Lee, based on the talk show \"Jerry Springer\". The musical contains irreverent treatment of Christian themes, extensive profanity, and surreal images, such as a troupe of tap-dancing Ku Klux Klan members. The musical is completely sung through, with only two exceptions: the title character, Jerry, who speaks throughout the production; and Steve Wilkos, who has a brief speech.\n\nThe musical ran for 609 performances in London from April 2003 to February 2005 before touring the UK in 2006. The production won four Laurence Olivier Awards, including Best New Musical. The first North American performance was at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas to benefit Golden Rainbow, featuring performers for the then-current versions of \"The Phantom of the Opera\", \"Mamma Mia!\", and other Las Vegas Strip theatrical shows. The musical has been performed by a number of American regional theatre companies and made its New York City debut on 29–30 January 2008 at Carnegie Hall. Harvey Keitel starred as Jerry Springer.\n\nIn January 2005, its UK television broadcast on BBC Two elicited 55,000 complaints. The organisation Christian Voice led street protests against the screening at nine BBC offices and announced their intention to bring blasphemy charges, due to the depictions of the Christian characters in Act II. The Christian Institute attempted to bring a private prosecution against the BBC, but the Magistrates Court refused to issue a summons, a decision which was later upheld by the High Court of Justice. Protests continued at tour venues in 2006 and on the Internet.\n\n\nJerry Springer's frenzied audience greets Jerry as he arrives at his notorious TV talk show. His first guest, Dwight, is cheating on Peaches with Zandra. The three fight, and Jerry's security men break up the battle. Jerry is briefly admonished by his inner Valkyrie. Dwight is also cheating with a transgender woman, Tremont. After a commercial break, Jerry's second guest, Montel, tells his partner, Andrea, that he likes to dress as a baby and that he is cheating on her with Baby Jane, a woman who dresses as a little girl. Jerry's Warm-Up Man contributes to Andrea's humiliation and is fired. Jerry again wrestles with his inner Valkyrie. Jerry's final guests are Shawntel and her husband, Chucky. She wants to be a stripper and demonstrates a dance before her mother, Irene, arrives. Irene attacks Shawntel. Chucky pleads innocence, but Jerry's secret JerryCam camera footage shows that Chucky is a patron of strip clubs and a Ku Klux Klan member. The Klan comes up on stage, and the Warm Up Man gives Montel a gun. The Warm-Up Man jostles Montel, who accidentally shoots Jerry.\n\nJerry is found injured in a wheelchair, accompanied by his security man, Steve. The scene is Purgatory, a fog enshrouded wilderness. Jerry meets ghostly versions of his talk show guests, who have all suffered unpleasant fates. Jerry tries to justify his actions to the ghosts. The Warm-Up Man arrives and is revealed to be Satan. Baby Jane asks Satan to spare Jerry's soul. Satan forces Jerry to return to Hell with him to do a special show.\n\nJerry arrives in Hell at a charred version of his Earthly TV studio. The audience is locked into cracks in its walls. Jerry reads cue cards produced by Baby Jane that introduce Satan, who is in charge of the proceedings. Satan seeks an apology for his expulsion from Heaven and wants to reunite Heaven and Hell. Jerry must faithfully read the cue cards, which introduce Jesus, the next guest, who resembles Montel. Jesus and Satan trade accusations. Adam and Eve are next; they are reminiscent of Chucky and Shawntel. They argue with Jesus, and Eve eventually attacks him. Mary, mother of Jesus, who resembles Irene, condemns Jesus. Everyone turns against Jerry, who hopes for a miracle.\n\nGod and the angels arrive and ask Jerry to come to Heaven and help God judge Humanity. He accepts the offer, but the angels and devils fight over Jerry; and the talk-show host finds himself suspended over a pit of flame. Jerry launches into a series of glib homilies asking for his life, but finally gives up and makes an honest statement that resounds with his audience. Devils, angels, and everyone sing a hymn of praise to life.\n\nBack on solid ground, Baby Jane tells Jerry that he must go back to Earth. Jerry wakes up in his television studio, having been shot, his life ebbing away as he is cradled in Steve's arms. Jerry gives a final speech, and everyone is joined in sorrow.\n\n\n\n\nRichard Thomas's one-act opera, \"Tourette's Diva\", was performed at London's Battersea Arts Centre in May 2000 and featured two members of a dysfunctional family singing obscenities to each other. This led Thomas to create his one-man show \"How to Write an Opera About Jerry Springer\", which was performed at the Centre in February 2001.\n\nIn May 2001, Thomas returned to the Battersea Arts Centre with his show \"How to Write an Opera About Jerry Springer\", accompanied by four singers in a tiny studio theatre. It attracted positive press and investment. Stewart Lee teamed up with Thomas, and the two began to write \"Jerry Springer: The Opera\". The show received its first performance, while still under development, at the Centre in August 2001, with a cast of twelve. It ran for a week, selling out. When the show returned to the Centre in February 2002, the three-week run sold out in advance.\n\nThe show was then performed in concert at the Edinburgh Festival in August 2002, selling out. Jerry Springer came to see the show and endorsed it, stating, \"I wish I'd thought of it myself.\" The Edinburgh run included the introduction of character of Tremont – an amalgamation of two previous characters. Australian-born actor, Andrew Bevis, created the new role.\n\nFollowing the Festival run, Nicholas Hytner offered to include the show in his opening season as director of the National Theatre in London.\n\nThe first fully staged production of the musical was performed at the National Theatre on 29 April 2003, with a cast of 33, including Bevis as \"Tremont\" and Michael Brandon as \"Jerry\". It played to packed audiences and received favourable reviews. The show had its final performance at the National Theatre on 30 September 2003, before moving to the West End.\n\nOn 10 November 2003, the show opened at the Cambridge Theatre, with the same cast as the National Theatre production, and ran there until 19 February 2005, before starting a tour of the United Kingdom. The West End run was sponsored by British Sky Broadcasting. On 12 July 2004, David Soul took over the role of \"Jerry\" from Michael Brandon.\n\nIn 2004, a Broadway production was announced, and then cancelled.\n\nIn September 2005, seven months after the show closed in London's West End, it was announced that the show would tour 21 regional theatres around the United Kingdom. Nine theatres that were originally scheduled to host the show pulled out after Christian Voice threatened to picket them. In addition, Arts Council England turned down a bid for funding, stating that the decision was based on the show's commercial pedigree rather than \"pressure from extremist groups\".\n\nThe tour ran for 22 weeks, starting at the Theatre Royal in Plymouth on 27 January 2006. Immediately prior to the show's opening in Plymouth, it was reported that members of the far-right British National Party were part in a local campaign against the performances, although Christian Voice claimed to disapprove of their involvement. According to Ticketmaster UK, ticket sales were good throughout the tour, and reviews were positive.\n\nThe cast for the tour included several cast members from the London cast, and American actor, Rolf Saxon, replaced David Soul as \"Jerry Springer\". The tour had a scaled-down set and scaled-down effects as well as a smaller on-stage \"audience\".\n\nThe show was supposed to open on Broadway in 2005 however it was never produced.\n\nThe show was performed in concert in January 2008 for two performances at Carnegie Hall in New York City with Harvey Keitel playing the title role. The show was picketed on 57th Street.\n\nThe show's first formal performance in New York City was 23 January 2018 – 11 March 2018 at the Off-Broadway Pershing Square Signature Center venue with Terrence Mann playing the title role and Will Swenson playing Satan. It was produced by The New Group. It was directed by John Rando. It was extended until 1 April 2018 with Matt McGrath (actor) taking over the role of Jerry Springer.\n\nIn addition to the Christian protests at the BBC facilities, several venues throughout the 2006 tour saw protests. The \"Manchester Evening News\" reviewer saw the protests as misplaced, writing \"an audacious and scandalous, yet ultimately moral and challenging show that's recommended to anyone who can accept the odd dose of outrage in their lives.\" Another reviewer recommended, \"don't get your knickers in such a twist, drop 'em and enjoy yourself.\"\n\nThe opposition by Christian Voice caused the cancer charity Maggie's Centres to reject a £3,000 donation from \"Jerry Springer: The Opera\". Christian Voice threatened to picket their centres, which provide palliative care to cancer sufferers and their families. It claimed it had warned the charity that accepting cash from a show full of \"filth and blasphemy\" would be a public relations disaster.\n\nIn January 2007 Christian Voice, represented by Stephen Green, attempted to prosecute BBC director-general Mark Thompson for blasphemy over the show. A summons was refused due to lack of prima facie evidence that a crime had been committed, and a provision of the 1968 Theatres Act which enshrines the right of free expression in theatrical works. An appeal to the High Court was dismissed on 5 December 2007, with the decision of the lower court upheld on all counts and ruling that it was reasonable to conclude that the play \"in context\" could not be considered as blasphemous.\n\nAsked about the controversy during an interview with \"The Observer\" in 2009, Lee stated:\n\nIf you have been on the verge of becoming a millionaire and that has not happened because of far-right pressure groups, and your work has been banned and taken apart, and you've been threatened with prosecution, and the police have advised people involved with your production to go into hiding, and bed and breakfasts won't have the cast to stay because they're blasphemers, and you have to cross a BNP picket line to go to work in Plymouth, you do start to think, well, what can be worse than that?\n\nAsked if the experience affected his stand-up comedy, Lee replied: \"It did make me feel there was not much point ever trying to reach a mass audience with anything interesting and provocative. You just run the risk of being misunderstood on a large scale\".\n\nThe musical contains extensive profanity. It has been accused of including \"8,000 obscenities\"—it is not known where this count originated, but the 8,000 figure is popularly quoted. 8,000 obscenities over the show's 120 minute runtime would imply that there were 66 obscenities a minute, and thus more than 1 per second. Several publications, including the \"Daily Mail\" and \"The Sun\", claimed a figure of \"3,168 mentions of the word fuck and 297 of the word cunt\". According to the BBC investigation, however, there were 96 uses of \"fuck\" and nine uses of \"cunt\". The BBC report said \"While a substantial number, this was not necessarily unacceptable in terms of late night terrestrial television.\" The numbers reported by the Mail and the Sun were found by multiplying the number of cast members singing a profanity at the same time, i.e. the reported 297 uses of the word cunt is the result of multiplying the 33 cast members by the nine occurrences of the word.\n\nAccording to writer Stewart Lee, there are 174 swear words in all.\n\nThe BBC's role in broadcasting the musical was raised in the UK Parliament. Generally, they voiced more concern over the reactions of Christian groups than over the show itself.\n\nEarly Day Motion no 488, THE BBC AND JERRY SPRINGER - THE OPERA, was tabled on 12 January 2005, by Jeffrey Donaldson MP:\n\nThat this House regards with dismay the decision by the BBC to broadcast Jerry Springer - The Opera on BBC2, causing widespread offence to Christians and those of other faiths by its mocking portrayal of Jesus Christ, Holy Communion and some of the central tenets of the Christian faith; condemns the show's juvenile and offensive use of repeated profanity in an attempt at humour; further notes that it is particularly serious that the show should have been transmitted by the publicly-funded national broadcaster and questions whether it places the Corporation in breach of its Charter; laments the arrogant dismissal of Christian concerns by the content of programmes aired by the BBC; and calls on the government publicly to rebuke the corporation for its attack on the religion adhered to by over 70 per cent. of the UK population and for its lowest common denominator approach to ethics in its attempts to chase ratings.\nEDM no 531, BBC AND FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION, was later tabled on 17 January 2005 by Evan Harris MP:\n\nThat this House applauds the decision by the BBC to stick by its decision to broadcast, 'Jerry Springer - The Opera' on BBC2 on 8 January, despite the orchestrated campaign from religious pressure groups, the irresponsible actions of one of which caused alarm and distress to the families of BBC executives by making public their contact details and exposing them to hate attacks; believes that individuals have a choice whether or not to watch programmes which they are warned might be offensive to them, and that broadcasters have the right and duty to broadcast a variety of work, some of which may receive differing critical opinions; recognises that in any case this particular programme was of undoubted artistic merit as demonstrated by the opera having attracted a record number of awards, and substantial theatre audiences; reminds the BBC that its own study What the World Thinks of God suggested Britain was the most religiously sceptical country in the world and that as a publicly-funded national broadcaster the Corporation has a duty to reflect society in its output which will entail broadcasting programmes which some religious people find offensive; and calls on the BBC to stand firm against the increasingly assertive religious pressure being applied to restrict freedom of expression.\nEDM no 1270, JERRY SPRINGER DVD WITHDRAWAL, was tabled on 14 December 2005 by Don Foster MP:\n\nThat this House agrees with Noam Chomsky that `if you're really in favour of free speech, then you're in favour of freedom of speech precisely for views you despise. Otherwise, you're not in favour of free speech'; regrets the apparent decision of Sainsbury's and Woolworths to respond to minimal pressure by withdrawing DVDs of Jerry Springer: the Opera from sale in their stores; recognises that Jerry Springer: the Opera is a widely acclaimed work of art having won eight major awards including best musical at the Olivier Awards, the Critics' Circle Awards and the Evening Standard Awards; notes that vociferous minority pressure groups now increasingly target works of art with the outcome that the majority are sometimes denied the choice to judge works for themselves; and calls on the Government to ensure that freedom of expression remains a central principle of society and to protect the ability of individuals to explore comprehensively and lawfully all aspects of culture.\nEDM no 488 received 5 supporting signatories. EDM no 531 received 16 signatories. EDM no 1270 received 40 signatories.\n\nThe musical premiered on 17 March 2007. It was performed in semi concert-style with costumes and a minimal set at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas as a benefit for Las Vegas-based HIV/AIDS charity, Golden Rainbow.\n\nThe show had its official American premiere in a non-equity production in Chicago at the Bailiwick Repertory Theatre that began on 3 May 2007, with a 14 May opening.\n\nSeveral regional productions of the show have since been performed, and popularity for the show amongst amateur groups continues to grow.\n\nThe play was staged at the Sydney Opera House from 21 to 26 April 2009, starring David Wenham as Jerry, David Bedella as Jonathan Weiruss/Satan, Ursula Yovich as Andrea/Archangel Michel, Kate Miller-Heidke as Baby Jane, Alison Jiear as Shawntel/Eve, and Marcus Graham as special guest star; also appearing are Andrew Bevis and James Millar.\n\nThe first Canadian production opened in Toronto, Ontario on 16 January 2009 at Hart House Theatre. It was directed by theatre critic and Director Richard Ouzounian. Music Direction by Lily Ling and choreography by Shannon Cote. The best-selling show in Toronto for the 08 – 09 season. It featured Byron Rouse in the title Role and Jean-Paul Bevilacqua as \"Jonathan/Satan\". Other original Canadian Cast members include Linda Gallant (Shawntel/Eve), Scott Gorman (Montel/Adam), Jocelyn Howard (Peaches/Baby Jane), Brandi Hewitt (Zandra/Irene/Mary), Ian Bender (Tremont/Gabriel), Benjamin Mehl (Chucky/Jesus), Hayley Toane (Andrea/Angel Michael), Gregory Finney (Dwight/God), and James Schedlich (Steve Wilkos)\n\nNYMT (National Youth Musical Theatre) Ireland staged the first Irish Production of Jerry Springer: The Opera in the Grand Canal Theatre, Dublin. Starring Simon Delaney as Jerry and Eoin Cannon as Johnathan Weiruss/Satan, the show took place from 31 Oct – 5 Nov 2011.\n\nThe show won four awards at the 2004 Laurence Olivier Awards; Best New Musical, Best Sound Design, Best Actor in a Musical (David Bedella) and Best Performance in a Supporting Role in a Musical (the Chorus). It also won Best Musical at the 2004 Critics' Circle Theatre Awards, Best Musical at the 2003 Evening Standard Awards and the 2004 WhatsOnStage.com Theatregoers' Choice Awards Best New Musical and London Newcomer of the Year (Benjamin Lake). The show won four awards at the 2003 Nowt2Do.Com Awards, Best Actor in a Musical (David Bedella) Best Actress in a Musical (Alison Jiear) Best London Show and Most Entertaining Show.\nIn 2006, the show won Best Touring Production at the TMA Awards.\n\nIt is the only show ever to win all four \"Best Musical\" awards.\n\n\"Jerry Springer: The Opera\" was the subject of controversy when the BBC televised the musical on 8 January 2005 as part of an evening of Jerry Springer-themed programming on BBC Two. News of the screening had prompted TV standards campaigners Mediawatch to write a letter to the BBC Chairman of the BBC Governors, Michael Grade, asking him to reconsider the decision to show the musical.\n\nOn 7 January, the day before the broadcast, the BBC announced that it had received over 47,000 complaints about its plans to screen the musical – the most complaints ever received about a British television broadcast. Many commentators, including the BBC, attributed such a high volume of complaints to an orchestrated campaign by various Christian groups. Supporters of the BBC's broadcasting of the show pointed out that the supposedly blasphemous content was clearly presented as a fantasy in the mind of the dying central character and was not intended to be a serious comment on Christ or Christian theology. John Beyer, chairman of Mediawatch-UK, argued that the BBC should shoulder much of the blame for the campaign against the musical since they had promoted the musical as \"pushing back the boundaries of taste\" and \"controversial\" when it had never been intended to offend the groups who campaigned against it.\n\nIn November 2005, a DVD of the show was made available in the UK. However, because of complaints by customers, Sainsbury's and Woolworths decided to stop selling the DVD. Many blogs and Liberal Democrat MP, Lynne Featherstone condemned the action from the stores as being corporate censorship, something which both retailers deny. Most other retailers continued to stock the DVD.\n\nOn the DVD's commentary, it was stated that it would not be possible to tour the show in the UK due to pressure from religious groups, but since the release of the DVD, the UK Tour 2006 went forward. The DVD commentary also stated that Stewart Lee was unhappy with an unscripted action by Alison Jiear. In the \"Adam and Eve and Mary\" scene in Act II, Jiear runs her hand under Jesus's loincloth, prompting a surprised look from Leon Craig, the actor playing Jesus. Lee said, on the commentary, \"I wish she hadn't done that\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36102593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36102593", "title": "Jerusalem Festival of Light", "text": "Jerusalem Festival of Light\n\nThe Jerusalem Festival of Light is an annual arts festival held every summer since 2009 in Jerusalem.\n\nThe \"Hello\" magazine describes it is as a festival that displays the work of leading international artists whose light itself as their creative material. More than 200,000 visitors viewed the light show in 2011. In 2012 the show was extended into the city's Muslim quarter for the first time, it was located on Rehov Hagay, the commercial street leading into the Old City from the Damascus Gate. The festival, which lasts a week, is sponsored by the Jerusalem Municipality, the Prime Minister’s Office, the semi-public Ariel Company and the Jerusalem Development Authority. The cost of NIS 7 million NIS is partly defrayed by commercial sponsors.\n\n"}
{"id": "1211476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1211476", "title": "Karthikai Deepam", "text": "Karthikai Deepam\n\nKarthika Deepam, Karthikai Vilakkidu or Thrikarthika is a festival of lights that is observed by Hindus of Tamil Nadu, Sri Lanka and Kerala. It falls in the month of \"Kārttikai\" (mid-November to mid-December) as per Tamil calendar. This occurs on the day when the moon is in conjunction with the constellation Karthigai (Pleiades) and pournami. This constellation appears as a group of six stars in the firmament in the shape of a pendant from the ear. In Kerala, this festival is known as Thrikkarthika, celebrate to welcome Goddess Shakti. In the rest of India, a related festival called Kartik Purnima is celebrated in a different date. It is also termed as 'Lakshabba' in the Nilgiris district of Tamil Nadu.\n\nMany legends and lyrical poetry have grown around this star. The six stars are considered in Indian mythology as the six celestial nymphs who reared the six babies in the Saravana tank which later were joined together to form the six faced Muruga. He is therefore called \"Karthikeya\", the incarnation of Lord Shiva as his second son after Lord Ganesha. It is believed that Lord Shiva created Muruga from his 3rd eye of six primary faces (Tatpurusam, Aghoram, Sadyojatam, Vamadevam, Eesanam, Adhomukam). It is believed that the six forms made into six children and each of them brought up by the six Karthigai nymphs and later merged into one by his mother Parvati.\n\nWhile merging he also formed into a six faced (Arumugam and twelve handed god. The Lord Muruga is also portrayed with his six plays and worshiped with six names.\n\nAs the six nymphs helped in growing the child, Lord shiva blessed immortality to the six nymphs as ever living stars on the sky. Any worship performed to this six stars is equal to worshiping Lord Muruga himself. They are worshiped by lighting up rows of oil lamps (\"Deepam\") in the evening of the festival day around the houses and streets. Karthikai Deepam is also known as Kartikeya, or Muruga's birthday.\n\nOther Mythological Stories and Literature on this 6 stars Pleiades in folklore and literature.\n\nOne of the earliest references to the festival is found in the Aganaanooru, a book of poems, which dates back to the Sangam Age (200 B.C. to 300 A.D.). The Aganaanooru clearly states that Karthigai is celebrated on the full moon day (pournami) of the month of Karthigai, as per South Indian calendar. It was one of the most important festivals (peruvizha) of the ancient Tamils, including now the areas of modern Kerala too. Avaiyyar, the renowned poet of those times, refers to the festival in her songs. Karthikai Deepam is one of the oldest festivals celebrated by Tamil people. The festival finds reference in Sangam literature like \"Akanaṉūṟu\" and the poems of Auvaiyar. Karthigai is referred in Sangam literature as \"Peruvizha\".\n\nLord Shiva appeared as an endless flame of light before Lord Vishnu and Lord Brahma, who each considered himself supreme and said that the matter could be tested if the two could search for Lord Shiva's Head and feet. Lord Vishnu took the form of a boar(Sanskrit:\"Varaha\", Tamil:\"Varaham(pandri) \") and delved deep into the earth, Lord Brahma that of a swan(Sanskrit:\"Hansa\", Tamil:\"Annam\") and flew towards the skies. Lord Vishnu failed in his search and returned. But Lord Brahma, chancing upon a piece of \"Thazhambu\", a flower, learnt from it that it had been floating down for thirty thousand years from Lord Shiva's head. He seized upon this and claimed to Lord Shiva that he had seen the other's top. Lord Siva realized the falsehood and pronounced that there would never be a temple for Lord Brahma in this world. He also interdicted the use of the flower Thazhambu in his worship. Lord Shiva appeared as a flame, this day is called \"karthikai maha Deepam\".\n\n Rows of \"Agal vilakku\"s (Clay Oil lamps) are lit in every house. Karthigai is essentially a festival of lamps. The lighted lamp is considered an auspicious symbol. It is believed to ward off evil forces and usher in prosperity and joy. While the lighted lamp is important for all Hindu rituals and festivals, it is indispensable for Karthigai. This festival is also celebrated to commemorate the bonding between brothers and sisters in south India(analogous to Bhaiya-Dhuj and Raakhi). Sisters pray for the prosperity and success of their brothers and light lamps to mark the occasion.\nIn Telugu households, Kaartheeka maasam (month) is considered very auspicious. The Kartheeka month starts on the day of Deepawali. From that day till the end of the month, oil lamps are lit every day. On Kartheeka Pournami (full moon of Kartheeka month) oil lamp with 365 wicks, prepared at home, are lit in Lord Shiva temples. Apart from that, Kaartheeka puranam is read and fasting is observed till sunset, every day for the whole month.\n\nThiruvannamalai Maha Deepam will be lit at around 6 pm at the top of 2668 ft high holy mountain. The entire Mountain is Shiva Linga. Maha Deepam will be lit using nearly 3500 kg of Ghee. Sri Arthanareeshwara will bless devotees in the Temple at the time of lighting the Maha Deepam. The Maha Deepam will be visible around the Holy Mountain in a radius of 35 km. Lakhs of devotees will perform 16 km Girivalam (circumambulation of the holy mountain). The Moist Black Ash (what they call as 'Mai' in Tamil) that remains after the lighting of the Ghee & Cotton Wick will be distributed as Prasadam to devotees on the Marghazhi Arudra Darisanam day.\n\nAs in Tiruvannamalai, Tamil Nadu, Karthigai festival is also famous in Koneshwaram, Trincomalee, Sri Lanka. The festival is celebrated for three days. The first day is called Appa Karthigai, the second Vadai Karthigai and the final day is called Thiru Karthigai, widely considered as the Karthigai day, when the main pooja is performed. On Karthigai day, a huge fire lamp is lit up on the hill(in both temples), visible for several kilometers around. The fire (deepam) is called Mahadeepam. Hindu devotees visit the place, to pray and make offerings to lord Shiva. In 2016, due to the Maha Kumbh Mela of Ujjain Simhastha, Karthikai Deepam will hold special significance, being celebrated on 12 December 2016, which being a Monday is symbolically attributed to God Shiva, of the twelve Jyotirlinga.\n\nKārtikai chutru or Kārtikai chuḻaṟtu is a homemade charcoal-based hand-rotating firecracker. This is crafted by youngsters and elders at the time of this festival at rural cities at Tamil Nadu state in India. This cracker is very safe as it is made of Charcoal and constructed as a non-explosive craft. This cracker is handled with a long rope and rotated over the head clockwise, anti-clockwise, zig zag and any other pattern to make the display more fun. To maintain safety, the ropes used are either coir rope or jute rope. While rotating the ignited set-up of this cracker with the wind makes the charcoal to burn and split into small pieces which falls down. This burning effect can be compared with Chimney starter. This display can be compared with a fire performance, but the rope will not be ignited.\n\nThis cracker is made of Crushed and packed charcoal into Coconut shell. The packing is tightly placed inside 3 twigs or flexible wood stick or plant stem. The twigs are tied with ropes with a safety distance. Few burning charcoal is placed over the packing and blown hard or rotated until The packing gets slowly ignited. While the packing started ignited then it can be rotated faster with help of the rope. The falling pieces of burning charcoal pieces from the packing gives a fire cracker effect. The charcoal mixture can be mixed with dried palm flower pieces for more sparkling effects.. Crushed charcoal can be packed into layers of jute sack (Gunny sack) pieces\n\nIn Regional new year it is mentioned (under Malayali-Kerala)that Vishu is the new year, But Chingam is the start of new year in their calendar. Vishu (Malayalam: വിഷു) is a Hindu festival primarily celebrated in the Indian state of Kerala, which marks the beginning of the harvest year.(From Wiki itself copied)"}
{"id": "44753119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44753119", "title": "Lavender Graduation", "text": "Lavender Graduation\n\nLavender Graduation is an annual graduation ceremony conducted at universities to honor LGBT students and acknowledge their accomplishments and contributions. It was created by Ronni Sanlo, a Jewish lesbian keynote speaker in LGBT communities. Lavender Graduation is an informal complement to an institution's formal commencement ceremony, rather than a replacement. \n\nSanlo began this tradition because she was denied access to attend her own children's graduations due to her sexual orientation. Sanlo mentions that up \"until 1995, there were no ceremonies to honor our LGBT students. There were only ceremonies for students of various ethnicities and for other groups like ROTC, but nothing for our students, those to tend to feel most disenfranchised from their colleges and universities.\"\n\nThe first Lavender Graduation took place at the University of Michigan in 1995 with three graduates. Today, over 200 colleges and universities offer lavender graduation ceremonies for their students. \n\nLike other commencement ceremonies, lavender graduation ceremonies typically include a speaker—who can be a student or a guest—and a reading of graduates' names. Attendance is open to all members of the campus LGBTQ community, and students can also attend traditional commencement ceremonies. It is usually held before formal commencement.\n\nThe ceremony takes its name (and sometimes the color of tassels or other items given to students) from the significance of the color lavender in the LGBTQ community.\n\nJonathan Saenz, President of Texas Values, a Texas based organization advocating for traditional family values, stated, “This special Texas A&M ceremony essentially promotes and celebrates dangerous and risky sexual activity that can fiercely jeopardize a person’s well-being...I’m not sure this is the most responsible way for a university to prepare students for the real world.” Saenz saw this as a direct violation of the then ban on gay marriage. The A&M Student Senate and one state Legislator unsuccessfully tried to delete funding from the LGBT resource.\n"}
{"id": "53516314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53516314", "title": "List of Apartheid South African assassinations", "text": "List of Apartheid South African assassinations\n\nList of South African assassinations refers to a list of alleged and confirmed assassinations, reported to have been conducted by the Apartheid regime.\n"}
{"id": "43245576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43245576", "title": "Lithuania in the Eurovision Song Contest 1994", "text": "Lithuania in the Eurovision Song Contest 1994\n\nLithuania participated in the Eurovision Song Contest 1994 in Dublin. Ovidijus Vyšniauskas represented Lithuania with the song \"Lopšinė mylimai\". He finished in last place with 0 points. \n\nVyšniauskas performed 16th, following Slovakia's \"Nekonečna Piesen\" and preceding Norway's \"Duett\". He scored 0 points and Lithuania became the first ex-Soviet country which failed to score a single point. The Lithuanian jury gave its 12 points to runner up Poland. As of 2019, this is the only internally selected Lithuanian entry, as the next ones onward were chosen via national final. \n\n"}
{"id": "21687723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21687723", "title": "Maria Duval scam", "text": "Maria Duval scam\n\nThe Maria Duval Psychic Scam is one of the most successful mail scams in history, having defrauded millions of people out of at least $200 million over twenty years. Targeting sick and elderly people through a combination of personalized letters and personal information databases, it has been shut down in the United States in 2016, but is still ongoing in many countries.\n\nThe scam originates from a purported psychic of Italian origin named Maria Carolina Gamba, using \"Maria Duval\" as her trade name. Gamba gave psychic consultations in the South of France and attained some measure of notoriety. Gamba sold the rights to the psychic services of \"Maria Duval\" and entered into a contractual arrangement a group of people who used those to promote the sale of astrology charts, possibly in the early 1990s. The new copyright holders (or perhaps people who bought in a subsequent transaction) developed the scam as it would be known throughout the world: using information available publicly or through newspaper advertising at first, then purchasing personal information marketing databases, they would mail letters to potential victims, offering feats of divination by Maria Duval for $40.\n\nAccording to an investigation by CNN journalists Melanie Hicken and Ellis Blake, the scam was controlled for some time by two European companies, Astroforce and Infogest, both being owned by Raëlian Jean-Claude Reuille, who eventually sold his assets to undisclosed buyers. The group that now operates the Duval scam may be using the same model with other psychics.\n\nThe scammers targeted aged or sick people, typically promising psychic help to improve their health or finances. The $40 fee applied to each piece of a correspondence that could stretch over years. More expensive forms of assistance such as plastic talismans and crystals were also offered, some victims paying thousands of dollars per year.\n\nThe letters appeared to be hand-written and signed by Duval. They contained enough personal details to lead the victim to believe the person sending them might indeed have psychic powers. Even though at some point thousands of letters were generated per week, the scammers took great care to make them look as authentic as possible, with coffee stains or pages of (computer-generated) paragraphs giving the appearance of a personal letter. Some victims would develop feelings of friendship for the Duval persona, which increased the amount of correspondence. The name Patrick Guérin would be used as Duval's psychic assistant, who also offered services, generating another revenue stream for the scam.\n\nLetters have been found in a dozen countries and generated revenues in excess of $200 million in the United States and Canada. The scam was managed by a series of successive groups using shell companies to hide their involvement. Gamba, however, continued to receive payments and did some promotional work under the name Maria Duval, even occasional news appearances at some point. Gamba's son thinks her mother agreed to be used as the face of the scam out of a desire to become rich and famous, then felt she was unable to stop the ongoing relationship.\n\nEarly law enforcement investigations concluded Maria Duval may not actually exist, being a persona completely fabricated by scammers. That turned out to be incorrect when Ellis and Hicken, assisted by French colleagues, located Duval's residence in the south of France in 2016 and managed to interview her two years later. In August, 2018, they published \"A Deal with the Devil: The Dark & Twisted True Story Of One Of The Biggest Cons In History\", which narrates their search for the elusive Maria Duval/Carolina Gamba.\n\nAn investigation by the United States Department of Justice (DoJ) concluded in 2014 with some companies associated with the scam paying undisclosed amounts as out-of-court settlements. The DoJ also barred Hong Kong's Destiny Research Center and Montreal's Infogest Direct Marketing from sending letters to the United States (from Canada) and the criminal investigation targeting those two firms was still ongoing in 2018. Infogest flooded the United States with 56 million Maria Duval letters between 2006 and 2014 and has been investigated for other scams, including one about bogus weight loss products. Canadian financial services PacNet was subsequently accused of laundering money from the American Maria Duval operations, among other questionable clients.\n\nInvestigators concluded the number of people scammed is considerable, including 1.4 million in the United States alone.\n\nGamba's residence in Callas was searched by French police and American investigators in March, 2018. The US Postal Inspection Service confirmed to CNN that a criminal investigation was under way as of July, 2018.\n"}
{"id": "17423643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17423643", "title": "McPherson Opera House", "text": "McPherson Opera House\n\nMcPherson Opera House is an historic opera building at 221 South Main Street in McPherson, Kansas.\n\nThe house was built in 1888, opened in 1889 and added to the National Historic Register in 1972.\n\n"}
{"id": "29060687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29060687", "title": "Murder of Tia Rigg", "text": "Murder of Tia Rigg\n\nOn 4 October 2010, 38-year-old Maden, who had pleaded guilty to the crime, was sentenced to life imprisonment with a recommendation that he should never be released, meaning that he will likely remain in prison until he dies.\n\nSentencing, Mr Justice Keith said: \"This is one of those exceptional cases in which the only just punishment requires you to be imprisoned for the rest of your life.\"\n\nAt 2:17pm on 3 April 2010, Maden, who had an \"obsessive interest\" in pornography relating to paedophilia, rape and torture, telephoned Rigg's mother and asked for Tia to go to his home in Dalmain Close, Cheetham Hill, in order to babysit his ten-year-old daughter. When she arrived at 3:00pm he drugged her with Olanzapine, an antipsychotic tranquilizer that he had been prescribed.\n\nHe then inflicted a \"horrific catalogue of sexual injuries\" on her before stabbing her and strangling her with a ligature made from a guitar string. At 3:45pm Maden telephoned the 999 emergency services number and said: \"Hi, I would like to report a murder.\" He then gave his name and address and when asked by the operator what had happened he replied: \"My niece has been murdered by me ... I have just finished killing her now.\" Asked why he had killed her he answered: \"Because I felt like it\" and terminated the call.\n\nPolice officers from Greater Manchester Police arrived at the address two minutes later. Maden opened the door to the officers, who described him as \"chillingly calm\", and directed them upstairs. They found Rigg's body face-up on the floor of a spare bedroom, naked except for her socks, with the ligature still fastened around her neck and her hands tied behind her back with shoelaces. Next to the body were two knives, a broom handle and a sex toy, all of which were stained with blood.\n\nAn autopsy found that Rigg had suffered severe blood loss from her stab wounds and internal injuries, but the primary cause of death was ligature strangulation.\n\nMaden was tried at Manchester Crown Court on 4 October 2010. Prosecutor Gordon Cole QC told the court: \"In the year or so prior to April this year, the defendant had developed what can properly be described as an obsessive interest in images and literature relating to paedophilia, rape and torture. He had an extensive library of such materials which included literature dealing with methods of killing.\"\n\nPolice had found \"hundreds of extreme images of child abuse and violent pornography\" on Maden's laptop, plus more material on his mobile phone in folders named \"snuff\", \"snuff stories\" and \"brutal rape\". Detective Chief Inspector David Warren, who led the investigation, revealed that Maden refused to explain his actions and had never shown remorse for the killing.\n\nAfter pleading guilty to rape and murder, Maden was sentenced to life imprisonment with a recommendation that he should never be released. Passing sentence, Mr Justice Keith told him: \"It is inescapable that Tia Rigg died because you decided to realise your fantasies about torturing and killing a young child. It is difficult to know how long Tia's ordeal lasted. The terror, the unimaginable pain you inflicted on her, the indignities you subjected her to while still alive. It was planned, it was premeditated and her agony must have been prolonged. This is one of those exceptional cases in which the only just punishment requires you to be imprisoned for the rest of your life.\"\n\nA report issued regarding the case found problems with how social workers had handled Tia's care.\n"}
{"id": "26698558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26698558", "title": "Musikmesse Frankfurt", "text": "Musikmesse Frankfurt\n\nMusikmesse Frankfurt is an international fair regarding the music industry, and takes place in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. .\nIn 2012 68,587 visitors and 1,512 exhibitors from 51 countries were counted. Despite an exhibitor drop to 1.384 in 2013 the number of visitors went up to 70,863. On the fair itself musical instruments, software and hardware from the musical environment and further accessories are being introduced.\n\nThe fair was first introduced in 1980. It is generally held in the first quarter of the year for four days. The first two days are reserved for the business audience, while the last two days are accessible for everyone.\n\nIn 2013 the fair was held from 10 to 13 April. A playable and oversized tuba with a measure of 2,05 metres and weighing of 50 kg was displayed, which was first shown in 2012 in the musical instrument museum in Markneukirchen.\n\nIn 2016 the fair took place from 7 to 10 April. For the first time the Musikmesse festival took place in the framework of the Musikmesse. It was spread over Frankfurt's pubs and provided musical entertainment.\n\n\nOn the main stage, the Agora Stage, every thirty minutes a new act presents music or product demonstrations on two levels at all days. International artists perform music in all facets.\n\n"}
{"id": "1124670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1124670", "title": "New York gubernatorial elections", "text": "New York gubernatorial elections\n\nThere have been 90 gubernatorial elections in the state of New York since 1777. The next one will be held on November 6, 2018.\n\nOriginally the term was three years long and began on July 1, the election being held in the last week of April or May 1. In 1817, following the resignation of Daniel D. Tompkins after serving only eight months of his term, there was a new election, since the 1777 Constitution did not give the Lt. Gov. the right to succeed to the governor's office, and DeWitt Clinton was elected for a whole three-year-term. The New York State Constitutional Convention of 1821 reduced the term to two years – beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31 – and moved the election to the Tuesday after the first Monday in November. Due to this measure, DeWitt Clinton's own second term was cut short by half a year. Beginning with the election in 1876, the term was increased to three years again, beginning with the election in 1894 reduced to two years, and since the election in 1938 has its present duration of four years.\n\nAlthough the candidates for Lieutenant Governor have always run on tickets with the governor's candidates, until the election of 1950 they were elected on separate ballots, so on several occasions (1826, 1846, 1850, 1906, and 1924) the governor and his lieutenant were elected of opposing tickets.\n\nIn only 15 of the total 89 elections the incumbent ran and was defeated.\n\nThe elected candidates are shown in bold face in the tables below.\n\nGubernatorial elections under the State Constitution of 1938. The term is four years.\n\nNote: 4,985,932 ballots were cast in this election. Out of them, 250,696 were declared blank, void or missing.\n\nNote: The highest number of votes ever received by any Governor of NY until today\n\nGubernatorial elections under the State Constitution of 1894. The term was two years.\n\nNote: This was the last time the running mate of the elected governor was defeated, Democrat Smith having Republican Lowman as lieutenant for the duration of this term.\n\nNotes:\n\nNotes:\n\nNote: William Sulzer had been elected governor as a Democrat at the previous election, but was impeached. Martin Glynn had been elected Lt. Gov and succeeded to the governorship upon Sulzer's impeachment.\n\nNote: election result, in NYT on December 16, 1910\n\nNote: The majority faction of the Democratic Party were then known as \"Silver Democrats\", and the \"National Democrats\" were the \"Gold Democrats\".\n\nNotes:\n\nGubernatorial elections under the State Constitution of 1846, amended in 1874. The term was three years.\n\n\n\nGubernatorial elections under the State Constitution of 1846. The term was two years.\n\nThe Tickets: in NYT on October 30, 1870\n\nNote: John T. Hoffman was a Democrat, Robert H. Pruyn a Republican. The \"Conservative Union\" ticket was nominated by the Democrats in an attempt to attract Republicans, especially Democrats who had joined the Republican Union and remained Republicans after the Civil War, to return to the Democratic Party.\n\nNote:\n\nNote:\n\nNotes:\n\nNote:\n\nGubernatorial elections under the State Constitution of 1821. The term was two years. Until 1840, elections were held during three days beginning on the first Monday in November. Since 1841, until today, all regular elections have been held on the Tuesday after the first Monday in November. The elected candidate takes office on January 1 of the following calendar year.\n\n\n\n\nGubernatorial elections under the State Constitution of 1777. The term was three years, the election held in the last week of April or on May 1.\n\nNote:\n\nNote: Governor Tompkins was elected US Vice President in November 1816, and he resigned in February 1817. Article XVII of the New York State Constitution of 1777 said that \"...as often as the seat of government shall become vacant, a wise and descreet freeholder of this State shall be, by ballot, elected governor... which elections shall be always held at the times and places of choosing representatives in assembly...\" This meant that, whenever a vacancy occurred, the Lt. Gov. did not succeed to the governor's office but administrated the state only until the end of the yearly term of the New York State Assembly on June 30, the successor being elected in April.\n\nNote: Lt. Gov. Broome died in August 1810, and the 1777 Constitution provided for new elections if a vacancy occurred either in the Governor's or the Lieutenant Governor's office. See 1817 general election.\n\nNote: Aaron Burr was the sitting US Vice President.\n\nNote: John Jay received more votes than George Clinton, but on technicalities the votes of Otsego, Tioga and Clinton counties were disqualified and not counted, giving Clinton a slight majority. Under the Constitution of 1777, the votes were canvassed by a joint committee of the state legislature, six members each from the assembly and the senate. The members were David Gelston, Thomas Tillotson, Melancton Smith, David Graham, Pierre Van Cortlandt, Jr., David McCarty, Jonathan N. Havens, Samuel Jones, Isaac Roosevelt, Leonard Gansevoort and Joshua Sands. The state constitution said that the cast votes shall be delivered to the secretary of state \"by the sheriff or his deputy\". The ballots from Otsego County were forwarded to the secretary of state by Sheriff Smith who was holding over in office until the appointment of a successor after his term had expired. The ballot box from Clinton County was delivered to the secretary of state's office by a person without deputation who had received the box from the sheriff. The ballot box from Tioga County was delivered to the secretary of state by the clerk of the special deputy appointed by the sheriff. The canvass committee disagreed on whether to allow these ballots to be counted. The question was referred to the U.S. Senators from New York, Federalist Rufus King and Dem.-Rep. Aaron Burr, for arbitration. King said all votes ought to be canvassed. Burr said that the ballots from Clinton County ought to be allowed, and the ones from Otsego and Tioga Counties should be rejected. Thereupon, a majority of the canvass committee (Gelston, Tillotson, Smith, Graham, Van Cortlandt, McCarty, and Havens) rejected the ballots from all three counties and declared George Clinton duly elected governor by a majority of 108 votes. The minority (Jones, Roosevelt, Gansevoort, and Sands) protested in writing. In Otsego County, John Jay had a majority of about 400, and discounting the small majorities for Clinton in Tioga and Clinton Counties, would have won the election. Clinton was accused by the Federalists of usurpation and the canvass committee of having made a partisan decision against the wishes of the electorate.\n\nNote: Clinton and Van Cortlandt were re-elected unopposed.\n\nNote: Clinton and Van Cortlandt were re-elected unopposed.\n\nNotes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "315166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315166", "title": "NorthPoint Communications", "text": "NorthPoint Communications\n\nNorthPoint Communications Group, Inc. was a competitive local exchange carrier focused on data transmission. It leased copper telephone lines from phone companies, then provided access to internet service providers to provide DSL service to businesses and residents.\n\nThe company existed and failed during the dot-com bubble.\n\nThe company was founded in 1997 and went public on May 5, 1999 via an initial public offering in which it sold 15 million shares at $24 per share. In September 2000, Verizon agreed to acquire a 55% interest in the company and merge the companies' DSL businesses.\n\nIn November 2000, as its customers failed to pay their bills, NorthPoint restated downwards its financial performance for the third quarter of 2000, lowering revenue from $30 million to $24 million. After the earnings restatement, Verizon terminated its acquisition agreement, claiming that a material adverse change had occurred. Northpoint sued Verizon to force it to complete the transaction. The lawsuit was settled out of court in July 2002, with Verizon agreeing to pay $175 million to Northpoint.\n\nOn December 21, a shareholder sued NorthPoint for alleged waste of corporate assets, gross mismanagement and breach of contract.\n\nIn January 2001, NorthPoint filed bankruptcy. Some internet service providers, which faced a disruption in service, blamed the banks for failing to work out a deal to save the company. In March 2001, AT&T Corporation acquired the assets of NorthPoint for $135 million in a liquidation.\n"}
{"id": "30732907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30732907", "title": "Project Dark Gene", "text": "Project Dark Gene\n\nProject Dark Gene was an aerial reconnaissance program run by the Central Intelligence Agency and Imperial Iranian Air Force from bases inside Iran against the Soviet Union. The program was run in conjunction with Project Ibex, which was a more traditional ELINT mission. The first operations were during the 1960s with support of Iran's former Shah. Dedicated aircraft, air-bases, and U.S. personnel were stationed at numerous sites in Iran and would regularly fly across the border into the USSR through potential holes in their radar coverage. The intention of the program was to test the effectiveness of Soviet air defence and interception and resulted in one confirmed and possibly more combat losses in engagements with Soviet aircraft.\n\nDirect confrontation between the US and USSR was occurring or brewing in places like Indochina. Confrontation was usually limited to proxy wars often involving the use of advisers, trainers, and other specialised personnel of the proxy states. After the Korean War the USA undertook a series of direct reconnaissance flights over the Soviet Union, some at the time secret and highly successful and others that resulted in shootdowns and tense diplomacy such as the 1960 U-2 incident. In order to continue gathering intelligence the USA needed to develop more and more sophisticated methods as the Soviet Defence became more advanced. Developments like the SR-71 Blackbird and satellites were fueled by this.\n\nThe Shah of Iran, a U.S. ally who had come to power with help from the Central Intelligence Agency, offered to fund military intelligence operations against the USSR as part of the Cold War. The Shah feared the Soviet Union, in particular their relationship with neighbouring rival Iraq. The CIA, Rockwell International, and Iranian businessman Albert Hakim (later involved in the Iran Contra Affair) paid bribes to senior members of the Shah's government and defence establishment to get the funding.\n\nAccording to US Embassy cables during the operations the Shah and Iran were of great importance to the US, in part due the close relations with the Iranian government and Iran's proximity to the USSR. In response to a request by the Shah to speed up a similar arms deal the US Embassy in Tehran advised; \"Decision should also not overlook or underestimate importance of Iran for vital US national interests.\" The Embassy suggested that deliveries of an aircraft type to European Allies and even to the USAF should be considered for diversion to Iran due to the strength of this relationship and the urgency of the issue.\n\nOperation Dark Gene and Operation Ibex were two ways the Iranians could help due to their strategic location, between the USSR and the Persian Gulf. The terrain (deep valleys) in the area offered the program a unique advantage as Soviet radar coverage had major holes. At first US pilots flying Iranian aircraft operated independently but over time Iranian personnel became more involved.\n\nAt a point during the operations, due to the risk of pilots ejecting over the USSR, excuses were worked out to explain why US pilots were found flying combat aircraft over the Soviet Union. The excuse they settled on was that the USAF pilots were training IIAF pilots in their new aircraft and simply got lost. Typically by this stage an Iranian would pilot while a USAF officer would navigate.\n\nAs the operations continued, the US provided the Iranian Air Force with advanced aircraft that were not offered to anyone else at the time such as the F-14. These operations ended with the Iranian Revolution and it is assumed that the ELINT equipment was ceded to the successor Islamic Republic of Iran Air Force.\n\nProject Ibex was closely linked to Project Dark Gene. The same airfields were used and operations were often run in conjunction. In essence they can be considered the same operation, each with separate and overlapping objectives. One of the advantages of operating them together was the ELINT data that could be gathered when Soviet Air Defences were activated by a Project Dark Gene aircraft that was detected. The resulting emissions and activity would be recorded by Project Ibex aircraft on the Iranian side of the border.\n\nFunded by the Shah, the listening posts were constructed in Northern Iran by the CIA. After the Iranian Revolution, Iran maintained the facilities in \"impeccable condition\" despite having little or no knowledge about how to operate them. With the potential to provide information about Iraqi troop movements, CIA official George Cave advised Iran's interim government to make use the system.\n\nAround four aircraft involved in the project may have been lost to Soviet interceptors during the project. Two of the unconfirmed aircraft are RF-5A's piloted by USAF pilots, while a RF-5B with an IIAF pilot, one a reconnaissance mission is confirmed.\n\nOne instance of combat during Project Dark Gene was an engagement on November 28, 1973 between an RF-4C aircraft piloted by IIAF Major Shokouhnia and backseater USAF Colonel John Saunders and a Soviet MiG-21 flown by Captain Gennadii N. Eliseev. The Soviet pilot fired two Vympel K-13 missiles at the Iranian aircraft, failing to destroy it. He was ordered from ground control to press his attack at any cost, and with his cannon jammed after the first shot, he continued by ramming into the Iranian aircraft and losing his life in the process. He struck the RF-4C's tail assembly with his wing and then flew into high ground. It was the first deliberate jet-to-jet ramming by a Soviet aircraft during an interception, a practice common in the propeller age of World War II. Eliseev was posthumously awarded as a Hero of the Soviet Union. The crew of the RF-4C aircraft were captured by Soviet ground forces and released after 16 days.\n\nIn 1978, 4 Iranian Chinooks strayed into the Soviet Union while training. One was damaged and one shot down by a Soviet pilot in a MiG-23 Flogger. The interception was possibly due to Project Dark Gene as the Soviets had increased their air defences on the Iranian border in response to prior incursions.\n\nAirbases involved were operated jointly by the CIA and IIAF and protected by land mines and razor wire. As part of the connection with IBEX there were 5 dedicated facilities for monitoring communications within the Soviet Union. Their contact with the outside world was maintained by air resupply only via de Havilland Canada DHC-4 aircraft. Special equipment was provided by Rockwell International and funding was largely provided by the Shah of Iran.\n\nMost of the following aircraft had custom electronic warfare packages installed for their missions. The Boeing 707s, for example, had 13 man crews operating internal surveillance equipment. Broadband and Narrow band receivers were used.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51810463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51810463", "title": "Pueblo Opera House", "text": "Pueblo Opera House\n\nThe Pueblo Opera House (also known as the Grand Opera House) was a theater built in Pueblo, Colorado, and opened in 1890. The building was completely destroyed by a fire in 1922.\n\nIn June 1888 the architectural firm of Adler & Sullivan was contracted to design an opera house in Pueblo, Colorado. They were to be paid $400,000, the largest fee the firm had yet received for a building outside of Chicago.\n\nThe exterior of the four-story building was designed in a combination Richardsonian Romanesque and Italian Renaissance style, with rusticated Manitou red sandstone on a granite base.\n\nThe hall seated 1,200 people, and the balcony was the first in the United States to \"span an auditorium without intermediate buttressing\". The ceiling and walls of the auditorium were covered with Louis Sullivan's distinctive decorations.\n\nMario Elia, in his study of Sullivan and his work, suggests that the broad projecting roof was a detail contributed by Frank Lloyd Wright, who was employed at Sullivan's office at the time. \n\nThe building was topped by a tower.\n\nOn the night of February 28 – March 1, 1922, the Pueblo Grocers' Association's annual ball was held there, and it is believed that a cigarette may have ignited litter left behind after the event. The fire was discovered at 1:15 a.m., the roof collapsed at 1:50, and all the interior floors had given way by 2:10. Despite the fire department's efforts to save the building, it was a total loss.\n"}
{"id": "58293243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58293243", "title": "RDP shop", "text": "RDP shop\n\nAn RDP shop is a website where access to hacked computers is sold to cybercriminals.\n\nThe computers may be acquired via scanning the web for open Remote Desktop Protocol connections and brute-forcing passwords. High-value ransomware targets are sometimes available such as airports. Access to a compromised machine retails from $3 to $19 depending on automatically gathered system and network metrics using a standardised back door.\n\nRussian sites such as xDedic do not sell access to machines within the former Soviet nations.\n"}
{"id": "4335240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4335240", "title": "Rototom Sunsplash", "text": "Rototom Sunsplash\n\nRototom Sunsplash is a large European reggae festival, it takes place every summer at Benicassim, a few miles north of Valencia in Spain. Since 1994 calls from various European countries thousands of reggae passionated people, thanks to concerts of international musicians, often many Jamaicans.\n\nGaio di Spilimbergo, Province of Pordenone, in the region of Friuli Venezia Giulia. This small town in Northern Italy between Venice and Udine is the starting point for an adventure called Rototom Sunsplash. On 13 December 1991 the Rototom Cultural Association was born and out of it the nightclub of the same name, where everything happened, was created. An alternative music scene, an authentic sound lab, and a stop off point for some of the greatest exponents on the world music scene: from punk to rock, reggae, indie and electronic music. A fusion that that is explained by the instrument that gave it its name: Rototom, able to create different sounds, just like the atmospheres that were created in this venue. On moving in 1997 to what would be its second headquarters in Zoppola, the Rototom Club spreads all of these genres in three different rooms all connected to create a “city of music”. One dedicated to rock, pop and rap; a second to reggae and African music where the typical sounds of the Sunsplash were and another dedicated to electronic music. Over the next nine years, it hosted shows by the Ramones (1993), Massive Attack (1998), Bad Religion, NOFX, Suede and Soul Fly; legends like the father of Afro beat Fela Kuti and reggae greats such as Burning Spear, Steel Pulse, Black Uhuru, Inner Circle, U-Roy, Yellowman, Itals, The Meditations, Junior Reid, Linton Kwesi Johnson, Misty in Roots, The Gladiators (band), Pablo Moses, Shaggy (musician), Buju Banton among many others.\n\nThe second phase of Rototom Sunsplash has but one name: the camping Girasole. Summer 1998. Unable to absorb the capacity, the festival moves to Latisana Maritima near Lignano, near the tourist resort town of Venice.\n\nSunsplash already had the structure that it evokes today: here it transforms a real reggae town with three stages and complementary cultural areas capable of housing thousands of residents: in this new headquarters the 8,000 festivalgoers from the last year in Gaio become 20,000. The event goes from three to four days and with more scheduled timetable. In Lignano the Rototom Sunsplash becomes a mass phenomenon, a pole of attraction for those beyond that of the music or to simply watch the live show of a certain artist, it married with a philosophy that is intrinsic to reggae: peace, love and respect.\n\nThe level that the festival reached is reflected in several anecdotes, like for instance that in its premiere in Lignano, the restaurants’ stocks ran out the first day of the four day event. Or that the beer went from being measured in barrels, like in Gaio, to being measured in tanks. Also as a part of this explosive growth the festival include the first international broadcast of its concerts via streaming (1999 through Arcoiris TV), the launch of Reggae Train, departing from Rome and with stops in Florence, Bologna, Padua and Venice, along with a free 24 hour coach service from Lignano and a nursery for young audiences.\n\nIt is also here that the ‘Italian Reggae Award‘ is first organised. The director of the Jamaican Reggae Sunsplash, Mr. Rae Barret, was invited to choose from the best Italian bands at the festival, to become the first group to represent Italy at the festival in Jamaica. Reggae National Ticket took the honours, and that marked the launching of the musical career on the Caribbean island of the singer, Alborosie, whose career is directly linked to the Rototom Sunsplash.\n\nIn the summer of 2000 the Rototom Sunsplash changed its surrounds once again and moved its headquarters to Osoppo (Udine). If Lignano represented its ‘professionalization’ and consolidation as a cultural and musical landmark event in Italy, Osoppo is crucial to its growth from national meeting to being a European festival. Its proximity to Austria, Slovenia and Germany expanded the boundaries of the event and balanced the handicap of its geographic isolation in a small town of 3,000 inhabitants.\n\nIn the 250,000 square meters of the Rivellino Park in Osoppo the festival assumes the dimensions that have accompanied it to the present. It is reconfigured as a holiday destination to spend four to eight days (and subsequently nine and ten days) with a clear differentiation between the festival with ‘day’ activities -the concerts are more spaced out- and night, with all its musical prominence. The Camping Area becomes a highlight, in the natural park at the foot of the Alps, which favours moments for meeting and socializing among the thousands of festival goers from around the world -150,000 people on average for ten consecutive editions in Osoppo- and helps forge a sense of belonging to the Rototom family. And to create the atmosphere of pacifism, tolerance and multiculturalism that define the event. The number of stages increase (Showcase, Dub Room) and the line-up to continues to add even more of the greats of the reggae scene, with exclusive events in Europe, and the rising stars of the Jamaican genre.\n\nThe extra-musical areas take shape, supported by the extension of the space: the Social Forum dedicated to conferences and debates with sociologists, politicians, religious representatives and intellectuals; African Village and Living Energy (Pachamama today) with sessions of capoeira, percussion and African dance courses; spaces for meditation and ones with seminars devoted to natural medicine and to Rastafarian philosophy; as well as areas with creative workshops for children. The Reggae University is also gestated, for the exchange of experiences between artists and audience.\n\nOsoppo also represents a change in the organizational structure with more specialized equipment (the Media Office is developed) that include European partners and unquestionable international projection linked to an increase in foreign audiences. The web is translated into seven languages (English, Italian, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Slovenian and German) and bus routes are organized across several countries.\n\nThe promotion of reggae culture is reflected in initiatives such as the European Reggae Contest aimed at gathering talent emerging bands (2002-2015).\n\nThe self-management system of the Rototom Sunsplash project -based on obtaining income solely through ticket sales and the absence of effective sponsors- proves itself in this phase. In 2003, a decade after its launch, the festival zeroed debt. That same year leaves us a concert to remember, for its hypnotism and intensity, in the history of Rototom: that of Burning Spear.\n\nThe golden moment of the Rototom Sunsplash for music, public and projection refers to is darkened by the political and judicial persecution that it begins to suffer from the government in the hands of the right. The fusion and coexistence of cultures that the event promoted clashed with the policy of closing borders that formed a part of the nationalist discourse of Silvio Berlusconi and his Northern League partners. The situation became more complicated following the adoption in 2006 of the Fini-Giovanardi law, declared unconstitutional in 2014 and, which, among other things, proposed up ten years in prison for tolerating the use of drugs such as cannabis inside spaces with leisure and cultural activities. The law criminalized the event –of which it was acquitted in 2015- to the point that it was forced to move from Italy to Spain.\n\nRototom Sunsplash begins its exodus, and as in all exodus, there is a corresponding promised land. The festival finds it in Spain, in Benicàssim (Province of Castellón) to be specific.\n\nOn July 12, 2009 the last edition in Osoppo ends and on the 24th of that same month an Italian expedition of five head to Spain. After seven months of searching and tours of Barcelona, Madrid, Salamanca and even to Galicia and the Basque Country, in February 2010 an agreement with the city of Benicàssim it is reached. The extensive camping area attached to the Benicàssim concerts venue is what shifts the balance. The town in Castellon, that summer hosted the first Spanish Rototom, the 17th in its history, and is where the event continues today.\n\nBenicàssim represents the consolidation of the macrostructure formed in Italy, which continues to grow: more stages and extra-musical areas such as Rototom Circus, in a space of 500,000 square meters that doubles the reggae town created in Osoppo. Its public also grows, with an average of 230,000 people per edition and which has also seen its familiar and child friendly profile grow.\n\nIt represents a jump from European to world event. Spain opens the doors for the Rototom Sunsplash to Latin America and it becomes even more international. Proof of this is the celebration from 2011 to 2015 of the Reggae Contest Latino and implementation of festival's global presentation road shows.\n\nBenicàssim adds to the festival's lure with beaches, which reinforces its format as a holiday destination during the event's week of celebrations. Anecdotally, it leaves the weather concerns of the pre-Alpine climate in Osoppo and the habitual wind and torrential rain of the environment in Friuli.\n\nThe new and current phase of the festival has maintained the principles and values that guide the actions of the Rototom Sunsplash, as an emblem of defending peace, environment, human rights and sustainable development. The slogan linked to the macro-event, another world is possible, is still alive in Benicàssim as is the community born around reggae and festival.\n\nIn August 2015, the festival took the political stance of disinviting the American reggae artist Matisyahu after he refused to state his personal opinion regarding the proposed two-state solution to the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. Matisyahu is not Israeli, but he is Jewish.\n\nMatisyahu stated that he never includes his own political views in his shows, he declined to clarify his previous statements in question. It was also reported that other musicians threatened to cancel their performances unless Matisyahu made the declaration supporting Palestinian statehood.\n\nMany human rights groups and the Spanish government suggest that the banning had anti-Semitic overtones. The Spanish foreign minister said: \"Imposing a public declaration (from Matisyahu), puts into question the principle of non-discrimination on which all plural and diverse societies are based.\" The concert included singer Capleton, whose lyrics call for murder of gays and lesbians, was not disinvited.\n\nAfter strong reactions from various critics and the accusations of anti-Semitism Rototom Sunsplash admitted that cancelling Matisyahu's performance was the wrong decision. The artist was then reinvited to the festival.\nIn an official statement issued on their web page Rototom Sunplash said: «Rototom Sunsplash rejects anti-Semitism and any form of discrimination towards the Jewish community; we respect both their culture as religious beliefs and we sincerely apologize for what has occurred».\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40198428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40198428", "title": "Sainte-Maxime International Horror Film Festival", "text": "Sainte-Maxime International Horror Film Festival\n\nThe Sainte-Maxime International Horror Film Festival is an annual horror film festival located in Sainte-Maxime, France. The yearly festival shows a wide variety of horror, fantasy and science fiction genre films including shorts, features and animated films.\n"}
{"id": "25016522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25016522", "title": "Scott W. Rothstein", "text": "Scott W. Rothstein\n\nScott W. Rothstein (born June 10, 1962) is a disbarred lawyer and the former managing shareholder, chairman, and chief executive officer of the now-defunct Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler law firm. He was accused of funding his philanthropy, political contributions, law firm salaries, and an extravagant lifestyle with a $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme, one of the largest such in history. On December 1, 2009, Rothstein turned himself in to authorities and was subsequently arrested on charges related to the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO).\nAlthough his arraignment plea was not guilty, Rothstein cooperated with the Government and reversed his plea to guilty of five federal crimes on January 27, 2010.\nRothstein was denied bond by U.S. Magistrate Judge Robin Rosenbaum, who ruled that due to his ability to forge documents, he was considered a flight risk.\n\nOn June 9, 2010, Rothstein received a 50-year prison sentence after a hearing in federal court in Fort Lauderdale, although federal prosecutors in 2011 filed a motion notifying the court they would be seeking a sentence reduction for Rothstein.\n\nHis firm had 70 lawyers and 150 employees, with offices in Boca Raton, West Palm Beach, Fort Lauderdale, Miami, Tallahassee, Florida, New York City and Caracas, Venezuela. The firm focused on labor and employment matters, civil rights, intellectual property, internet law, corporate espionage, personal injury, wrongful death, commercial litigation, real estate, mergers and acquisitions, and governmental relations.\nHis client list included: Citicorp, J. C. Penney, Ed Morse Automotive Group, National Beverage, Silversea Cruise Lines, Supra Telecom, and Wells Fargo.\nUntil he was permanently disbarred by the Florida Supreme Court on November 25, 2009, Rothstein was a member of the Florida Bar and admitted by the United States Supreme Court. He had been given an AV Preeminent peer review rating by Martindale-Hubbell. The AV rating is a significant accomplishment and a testament to the fact that a lawyer's peers rank him or her at the highest level of professional excellence.\n\nRothstein may have stolen millions of dollars from an investment side-business. A list of 259 persons or corporate entities entitled to $279 million in restitution has been sealed by the court.\n\nOn November 3, 2009, Federal Bureau of Investigation and United States Department of the Treasury agents served a warrant to search the firm's Fort Lauderdale offices. Rothstein sent an email in recent weeks to firm lawyers asking them to investigate which countries refused to extradite criminal suspects to either the U.S. or Israel, and firm lawyers responded that Morocco is one such country. Rothstein had wired $16 million to an individual in Casablanca\nand left for Casablanca on October 26, 2009. On October 31, 2009, he sent a suicide text message note to all of his law partners:\n\nSorry for letting you all down. I am a fool. I thought I could fix it, but got trapped by my ego and refusal to fail, and now all I have accomplished is hurting the people I love. Please take care of yourselves and please protect Kimmie [Rothstein's wife]. She knew nothing. Neither did she, nor any of you deserve what I did. I hope God allows me to see you on the other side. Love, Scott.\n\nOn November 3, 2009, after many texts by Stuart Rosenfeldt, the president of the firm, urging him to \"choose life\", Rothstein returned to Fort Lauderdale on a chartered jet, (chartered by the ex-husband of Governor Crist's wife, Todd Rome)\nfrom Casablanca. On November 2, his law firm with only $117,000 in its operating account filed suit against him, asked a judge to dissolve the firm, accusing him of misappropriating hundreds of millions of dollars from investor trust accounts in a Ponzi scheme from an investment business he covertly ran out of his law office.\n\nIn 2009 Rothstein resided at the Federal Detention Center, Miami in Downtown Miami, but was later moved to an undisclosed location and his inmate number removed from the Federal Bureau of Prisons inmate locator webpage.\n\nRothstein was born in the Bronx and moved with his parents to Lauderhill, Florida as a teenager. A 1988 Juris Doctor graduate of Fort Lauderdale's Nova Southeastern University's Law School, and a 1984 Bachelor of Arts graduate of University of Florida, Rothstein's law career began in 1988 and, for nearly fifteen years, he was relatively unknown. His local mentors were wealthy attorneys, Donald McClosky and Bill Scherer.\n\nIn the early 90's, Rothstein first partnered with attorney Howard Kusnick. First located in Plantation, Florida, Kusnick & Rothstein, P.A. subsequently moved to downtown Ft. Lauderdale. Longtime partner Michael Pancier first joined him there.\n\nIn 2000, Rothstein joined with Rosenfeldt as a name partner at the Hollywood firm, Phillips Eisinger Koss & Rosenfeldt, P.A., which became known as Phillips Eisinger Koss Rothstein & Rosenfeldt, P.A\n\nIn February 2002, Rothstein and Rosenfeldt started their own firm, first known as Rothstein & Rosenfeldt, P.A. Within a month, Pancier was added as a name partner. In July, 2002, adding Susan Dolin, a well-regarded employment lawyer, now practicing on her own in West Broward, the firm became known as Rothstein, Rosenfeldt, Dolin & Pancier, P.A..\n\nIn late 2004, the firm became known simply as Rothstein Rosenfeldt, with Adler being added in March 2005. Melissa Britt Lewis, who was murdered in March, 2008, was with Rothstein from the firm's beginning.\nIn seven years, he and his partners expanded the firm to 70 lawyers, including former Boca Raton Mayor and sitting Palm Beach County Commissioner Steve Abrams; former judges Julio Gonzalez, Barry Stone, and former Palm Beach circuit judge, William Berger; TV and radio legal commentator and former prosecutor, Ken Padowitz; Carlos Reyes, former South Broward Hospital District commissioner and lobbyist; Arthur Neiwirth, a bankruptcy expert; and Les Stracher, former legal counsel for Morse Auto Group, who represents major auto dealers.\n\nOthers include: Shawn Birken, son of Circuit Court Judge Arthur Birken; Ben Dishowitz, son of County Court Judge Dishowitz;\nand Grant Smith, son of disgraced former Congressman Larry Smith. Andrew Barnett is Corporate Development Officer, and David Boden, a New York attorney not licensed in Florida, was the firm's general counsel.\n\nOn September 8, 2011, U.S. District Judge James I. Cohn granted the government's motion to prohibit videotaping Rothstein during a scheduled deposition of him, citing \"serious harm\" and \"security reasons that are unusual in nature.\" The exact reasons for the judge's decision were sealed. This fueled speculation that his appearance was altered or he was a mafia target due to his cooperation with the prosecution against the mafia.\n\nOn June 8, 2011, federal prosecutors filed a motion with the sentencing judge informing him that they would be asking for a sentence reduction for Rothstein. However, on September 26, 2017, prosecutors withdrew their motion for a reduced sentence, saying that he had provided \"false material information\" in violation of his plea agreement.\n\nRothstein's name does not appear in the Federal Bureau of Prisons inmate database. This indicates he is being held under an alias, which would not be unusual given that he cooperated with the government.\n\nAs of November 18, 2009, many of the associates have relocated: Five lawyers moved to Fort Lauderdale-based Rice Pugatch Robinson & Schiller. Steven Lippman and Richard Storfer will be new partners. Riley Cirulnick, George Zinkler and Jodi Cohen are new associates.\n\nIn August, 2008, Governor Crist appointed Rothstein as a member of the 4th District Court of Appeal Judicial nominating commission, a body which is responsible for selecting new judges for appointment to the Court.\n\nBill Brock accompanied Rothstein to Morocco. His job at the law firm was to issue checks for Rothstein's various ventures and contributions, and had the sole security pass for the area where records of Rothstein's non-law firm businesses were kept.\n\nAn observant Jew, Rothstein grew up in a small Bronx apartment, sharing a bedroom with his sister. His father was a salesman \"back in the days when you carried a bag up and down the streets of New York.\" The family moved to Lauderhill, Florida in 1977, when Rothstein was 16. His grandmother used her life savings to help put him through school. \"I grew up poor. I'm a lunatic about money.\"\n\nRothstein was a large contributor to a synagogue off Las Olas with his name affixed to the front facade: The Rothstein Family Downtown Jewish Center Chabad. Rabbi Schneur Kaplan is one of the two people who talked Rothstein out of committing suicide.\n\nHe invested in residential property. In 2003, he paid $1.2 million for an intracoastal waterfront house on Castilla Isle in Fort Lauderdale. In March 2005, he bought a neighboring home belonging to Miami Dolphins' Ricky Williams for $2.73 million. While living in Williams' old house, he's purchased two other homes on the street and three other homes in Broward for a total residential investment of nearly $20 million. \"They call me the king of Castilla.\"\n\nIn 2008, he purchased a $6.45 million waterfront gated Fort Lauderdale home, a $6 million condo in New York in the same building as Marc Dreier,\nand a $2.8 million oceanfront estate in Narragansett, Rhode Island\nformerly owned by troubled client, Michael Kent, a Fort Lauderdale nightclub owner.\n\nHe is part-owner with Anthony Bova of the South Beach Versace Casa Casuarina mansion, where he was married on January 26, 2008, in a three-day wedding celebration with Governor Crist, and his then-fiancée and present wife, Carol Rome, in attendance. A later financial analysis of the 10% property interest Rothstein owned showed that it was worthless.\nHis second wife, Kimberly Wendell Rothstein, a 35-year-old real-estate agent, helped manage his properties, which also include part-ownership of an office building in Pompano Beach. He and Bova also owned Bova Ristorante, formerly long-time generational Italian family-owned Mario's of Boca, which shut down October 18, 2009. Bova Prime, formerly Riley McDermott's on Las Olas Boulevard is still operating. On September 11, 2008, the day before Rothstein took ownership, a dispute involving firearms broke out at Riley McDermott's involving Rothstein's security personnel.\n\nHe owns parts of an internet technology called company Qtask and V Georgio Spirits Co., LLC with CEO Vie Harvey and the Renato watch company, with partner, Ovi Levy.\nLevy is the son of hotelier Shimon Levy, who spent a year in prison in Israel after hiding a criminal kingpin, suspected of two murders.\n\nRothstein at one time was a minority shareholder of Edify LLC, a health-care benefits consulting company. State Representative Evan Jenne-D-Dania Beach is a $30,000 company consultant, who previously worked a local bank. Rothstein hired Jenne's father, former sheriff and convicted felon, Ken Jenne, as a consultant at his law firm days after Jenne was released from prison on corruption charges. An attorney for Rothstein's law firm serves as the registered agent for Evan Jenne's company, Blue Banyan. Grant Smith, a lifelong friend of Evan Jenne's, is an Edify lobbyist. Edify has worked closely with the state Department of Health to develop wellness programs and also influences certain health-care legislation.\n\nIn the 2008 interview at his law firm, Rothstein described himself and told how he controlled all aspects of the firm's management:\n\nThis is where the evil happens. Look, I sleep in the bed I make. I tend toward the flashy side, but it's a persona. It's just a fucking persona... People ask me, 'When do you sleep?' I say I'll sleep when I'm dead. I'm a true Gemini. I joke around that there are 43 people living in my head and you never know what you're going to get. There are some philanthropists in there, some good lawyers, and I like to think some good businessmen. There are also some guys from the streets of the Bronx that stay hidden away until I need them. Does that sound crazy? I am crazy, but crazy in a good way.\n\nHis personal office was opulent, with security and a compartmentalized layout. Anyone entering Rothstein's suite of offices had to use an intercom. He could exit, unseen through a second door. In the hallway, an ordinary looking brown door is actually the elevator door. Dozens of surveillance cameras and microphones hang from office ceilings. On his desk: four computer screens and the Five Books of Moses.\n\nOutside his personal office hung a painting of Al Pacino as Michael Corleone in \"The Godfather\". The walls of Rothstein's office and other hallways are lined with photos of himself and politicians including Gov. Charlie Crist, former U.S. Senator Mel Martinez, Senator John McCain, Broward Sheriff Al Lamberti, Rudy Giuliani, Joe Lieberman, and Bill McCollum.\n\nHe was ostensibly an affluent and successful attorney with all the material trappings of a flamboyant lifestyle, including armed body guards and police protection. Twenty-eight city police officials, including captains, majors, undercover officers and the department spokesman, helped guard his home and businesses, the only person in the department's history to have permanent round-the-clock off-duty police protection at his home. The department suspended all work for Rothstein on November 2, 2009.\n\nHe had a Boeing 727 jet and in 2002, flew Bill Clinton, Kevin Spacey, and Chris Tucker to Africa on an anti-AIDS mission.\nHe owns an $5 million Warren yacht. His fleet of exotic cars included: 1974, 2006, 2007, and 2008 Ferraris, 2009 Bentley, 2007 Silver Rolls-Royce, and one 2008 and two 2010 Lamborghini Murcielagos — worth about $400,000 each, a pair of $1.6 million Bugattis, and a pair of Harleys which he maintains in an air-conditioned warehouse.\nAll were allegedly purchased and traded from Euromotorsports, the owner of which has an extensive criminal record.\nAll were seized shortly after his return from Morocco. He has a watch collection of over 100, valued at $1 million.\nIn 2008, he was working on opening a cigar and martini bar on Las Olas Boulevard and two high-rise residential buildings in Brooklyn with New York partner Dominic Tonnachio. He was to take ownership of a \"series of office buildings\" on Oakland Park Boulevard.\n\nRoger Stone, a political trickster for Richard Nixon, was a partner with Rothstein in RRA Consulting, an LLC which was set up to provide public affairs assistance to the RRA law firm's legal clients. According to Stone, that business never generated any clients. It was dissolved in late 2008. On August 27, 2009, Stone, the recipient of Rothstein's sponsorship of his blog until July 29, 2009, \"StoneZone\", wrote a column recommending Rothstein for the seat vacated by Senator Mel Martinez- a man with \"a distinguished legal record, has been a key supporter of Governor Crist and John McCain, has an unmatched record of philanthropic activities and would bring an unconventional style of getting things done to Washington. Add Rothstein to the short list.\"\nOn November 4, 2009, Stone wrote, \"Rothstein had no prior business success, no business acumen nor track record that would engender confidence in an investor. He could not read a balance sheet. He could not write or read a business plan. Rothstein was a lawyer, not an entrepreneur.\" Stone claims that Rothstein has Attention Deficit Disorder (ADD) \"so severe he never finished a martini, a cigar, a thought, or a sentence, never mind a transaction.\" According to Stone, neither law firm name partner Russell Adler nor Stuart Rosenfeldt were signatories on the RRA Trust Account.\n\nHe \"appeared to be something out of a Great Gatsby movie.\"\n\nIn 2008, his Rothstein Family Foundation gave $1 million to Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, where a lobby will be named after him and his wife. On October 31, 2009 his firm sponsored at a charity golf tournament featuring former Gov. Jeb Bush.\n\nBetween 2007 and 2008, he donated $2 million to the American Heart Association, Women in Distress, Alonzo Mourning Charities, Here's Help, and the Dan Marino Foundation.\n\nPoliticians of both parties have pledged to donate to charity or return his political contributions. On November 3, 2009, the Florida Republican Party, announced it would give Rothstein's donations ($600,000) to a charity. Gov. Charlie Crist's Senate Campaign ($100,550), state Chief Financial Officer Alex Sink ($2,050), Senate President Jeff Atwater, Rep. Ellyn Bogdanoff, and the Florida Democratic Party ($200,000) will return some or all of his contributions.\n\nIn June 2009, Harry Reid, the Democratic Senate majority leader received a contribution of $4,800. A list of FEC filings indexed by NewsMeat include a total of $166,800 to the Republican Party and candidates, including $109,800 to John McCain's 2008 presidential campaign, and $17,600 to Democratic candidates.\n\nDebra Villegas, who handles his money, is the law firm's chief operating officer. She is co-owner with Rothstein in a home at 2307 Castilla Isle, as of May 2009. According to records, Rothstein originally purchased the property in September 2007, for $1.75 million, and sold it for $10 to a shell corporation in September 2009.\n\nIn 2005, the year the Ponzi scheme allegedly began, Villegas earned $80,000 a year. In 2007, her salary had increased to $145,000. Villegas received two Swiss watches — a Rolex and a Breitling — from her \"employer\". Rothstein paid off her couch and a bedroom set and held title to her two Honda water scooters. Villegas was living in a $475,000 Weston home that Rothstein signed over to her in July 2009 for $100 and \"love and affection,\" according to the deed. Villegas registered a 2009 $100,000 Maserati GranTurismo at the home in January, 2009. In November 2009, Federal prosecutors seized the home, alleging that it was among Rothstein's ill-gotten assets.\n\nVillegas' estranged husband, Tony Villegas, was charged on circumstantial evidence in the March 2008 murder in Plantation, Florida of Melissa Britt Lewis, a partner in Rothstein's firm. Although early news reports wondered at whether the evidence was substantial, according to New Times, \"Nine days later, forensic testing revealed that Tony's DNA had been found on Melissa's suit jacket – the same jacket she wore on the day she died.\"\n\nPolice sealed the arrest affidavit.\nAs a result of the homicide and the nature of the legal business, Rothstein has a team of \"executive protection specialists\" to guard the firm and his family, his teen-aged daughter. The prosecutor who had first worked on the Villegas case, Howard Scheinberg, went to work for Rosenfeldt Rothstein Adler. Villegas, a train conductor, remains in jail awaiting trial. The motive was supposedly revenge for Lewis's closeness with Debra.\nDebra and Melissa share a therapist: Ilene Vinikoor, whose husband, David represents general counsel, David Boden in the Ponzi scheme investigation.\n\nYou get anger from people... that prick from the Bronx. ... They say I'm building the law firm too fast, that it must be a house of cards.\n\nOn November 17, 2009, the Florida Bar Executive Committee voted to accept a request by Rothstein to be disbarred. The Florida Supreme Court entered an order permanently disbarring Rothstein on November 25, 2009. Rothstein was removed from the Broward County Grievance Committee, and his name has also been removed from the database of The Best Lawyers in America.\n\nRothstein, Rosenfeldt, and Adler's trust account was part of the Interest on Lawyer Trust Accounts (IOLTA) program that was paying hundreds of thousands of dollars a month to the Florida Bar Foundation.\n\nRothstein's investment scheme involved purchasing what were initially mislabeled as fabricated \"structured settlements,\" described as where people sell large settlements in legal cases for lump sums of cash. Alan Sakowitz, an attorney and real estate developer in Bay Harbor Islands, said that he contacted the FBI in September with concerns about Rothstein.\nOn Sunday, November 8, 2009, Sakowitz appeared with Kendall Coffey, attorney for Rothstein's law partners, on the Michael Putney Show on WPLG-TV, MIAMI, correcting Coffey for claiming that Rothstein's \"investments\" involved structured settlements, which they did not. (Note: \"structured settlements\" as defined by Rothstein in press reports do not meet the definition in IRC 5891(C)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code). Rothstein's resemble investments in pre-settlement funding\nor pre-settlement financing. In his December 12, 2011 deposition page 24 lines 15-23, Scott Rothstein himself said \"It was intentionally made in a way and presented to that firm and the other firms that were looking at the structure issue that it was merely a purchase of dollars already in-house; that it was not a structured settlement because the true definition of a structured settlement is when someone is actually receiving payments over time that has some other value. We didn't have a true definition of a structured settlement, not by any of the statutes. From that perspective we had reason to make sure that this was not structured. Because when you're dealing with structured settlements you need other levels of Court approval. It would have required the manufacturer of literally hundreds of phony orders, which would have led the entire scheme to detection.'\n\nThe FBI estimates the loss to be up to a billion dollars from lucrative whistle-blower and employment discrimination cases.\nThe investors would make up-front cash payments to individuals owed money from the court cases to buy the right to collect the full amount of the settlements later. The investor was guaranteed a minimum of 20 percent investment returns in as little as three months.\n\nGeneral counsel David Boden was present for at least one of the swindles, and negotiated the final papers with the investors' lawyers. Rothstein greets and informs the investor his firm was the preeminent sexual harassment law firm in the country. He says he'd figured out a basic formula which was that someone with $10 million net worth was usually willing to pay $2 million in cash to pay off their mistress. The key was confidentiality. Rothstein tells the investor that he would meet potential defendants in his office and would question them about affairs they had with an employee. The defendants would deny it. He pointed to artwork, and said there was a television screen behind it. He tells the investor he turned on a video of the guy having sex with his mistress, and told his client \"We can either settle this now, or I can depose your wife, your mistress, you and your son about it.\" Since defendants\" often couldn't or wouldn't pay the entire settlement up-front, Rothstein tells the investor that his first harassment case many years ago, involved a $3.5 million settlement and a million-dollar legal fee, so Rothstein assigned the settlement to a good friend and the plaintiff settles for $3 million without a trial. The \"good friend\" stood to be paid $3.5 million once the defendant paid up, a half-million dollar profit.\n\n\"In 20 years, I have never seen a defendant sue on breach of settlement,\" Rothstein told them. \"The whole idea is that it's secret. Why would they sue?\"\nAlthough it did not appear completely legitimate, and it might have appeared that the plaintiffs were short-changed, it makes sense to the potential investor. The idea seems solid. The investor thinks that with enough of these cases at Rothstein's law firm, he could make huge sums of money.\n\nRothstein then discusses other larger cases: Eli Lilly and Company, involving $1.4 billion with plaintiff representation by Gary Farmer, a firm attorney who negotiated the settlement and who brought the case with him when he arrived at the firm. Several inside whistleblowers went to the fed with unlawful practices regarding the marketing and sales of an anti-psychotic medication called Zyprexa. It was one of the largest qui tam cases in history.\n\nHe tells the investor about a potential (allegedly fabricated) case where investors would buy whistle-blower million dollar settlements with a sixty percent short term investor profit. The arrangement would be completely secret; the investor would never know the name of the company or the whistle-blower. The settlement money would be deposited into a trust account at TD Bank, accessible only to the investor at the appropriate time. David Boden follows up with all questions and negotiates the contract.\n\nOn November 2, 2009, Broward Chief Judge Vic Tobin sent an e-mail at 6:45 a.m. to judges about the Rothstein case:\n\nI learned of some very distressing news yesterday. Whoever draws the case try to set the motion today because of the amount of clients and money involved. Also, if you have a case with the firm, please be patient. I don't know if the lawyers will come or not and if they do come, there is no money at this point to go forward with the case or pay firm employees.\nOn November 3, 2009, retired Miami-Dade Circuit Judge Herbert Stettin was appointed the firm's receiver, responsible for approving the firm's day-to-day financial decisions. Firm president and 50% owner of the firm, Stuart Rosenfeldt, \"deposited two-thirds of my life savings in my firm's operating account\" to prop up finances in the short-term.\n\nMarc Nurik is representing Rothstein, and has stepped down as a lawyer from the firm. The prosecutors are Lawrence D. LaVecchio, Paul F. Schwartz and Jeffrey N. Kaplan. They have decades of experience investigating public corruption, white-collar fraud and organized crime. They are preparing a massive fraud case against Rothstein, zeroing in on his settlement investments, and also allegations of theft from his law firm and client trust accounts.\n\nOn November 25, 2009, Attorney William Scherer filed a 289-page Amended Complaint seeking $100,000,000 in civil damages on behalf of his clients, and naming: Toronto Dominion Bank and its associates, Frank Spinosa, Jennifer Kerstetter, and Rosanne Karetsky, Irene Stay, Banyon Income Fund, L.P., Banyon USVI, LLC, George G. Levin, Michael Szafranski, Onyx Options Consultants Corporation, Berenfeld Spritzer Shechter Sheer, LLP., as well as Rothstein and his associates, David Boden, Debra Villegas, Andrew Barnett, and Frank J. Preve, as defendants/co-conspirators.\n\nThe Amended Complaint lists people and businesses to whom Rothstein allegedly wired money while he was en route to or inside of Morocco: Rothstein wired $16 million to his tour guide from Boca Raton, Florida, \"Ahnick Kahlid\". Kahlid transferred the money to Rothstein's new Moroccan bank account opened upon his arrival with a passport as identification at Banque Populaire in Casablanca;\nThe recipients allegedly are members of the \"Israeli Mob\"; New York Investors; Florida Investors; Real Estate Investors; and Levin Feeders.\n\nScherer has said that his clients and all other investors who weren't complicit in the crime will have their money returned. Due to the extreme negligence, TD Bank is liable. \"My goal is to get all the money back for the investors from the bank,\" Scherer said.\n\nOn January 27, 2010 Scherer filed an affidavit alleging that Michael Szafranski was complicit in Rothstein's fraud, receiving almost $6.5 million in \"ill-gotten\" gains directly from Rothstein.\n\nShimon Levy allegedly has had deep ties to Israeli organized crime and spent a year in an Israeli prison for hiding a mob figure suspected of two \"grisly murders\". In 1997, his partner at the Sea Club Resort on Fort Lauderdale beach, Zvika Yuz, was a victim of a murder which remains unsolved. His son, Ovi contacted the Plantation Police Department and began receiving protection during the time Rothstein fled to Morocco.\n\nBanyan Income Fund, a Fort Lauderdale-based hedge fund, invested hundreds of millions. It was run by Rothstein and involves Fort Lauderdale businessman George G. Levin, who reported Rothstein to the U.S. Attorney's Office for \"suspicious activity.\" According to the lawsuit, Frank J. Preve is Chief Operating Officer and kept an office inside Rothstein et al. He is a convicted bank fraud and embezzlement felon. He pleaded guilty to bank embezzlement charges in 1985 and received ten years probation and a $10,000 fine for falsifying loan documents in another fraudulent scheme. Banyon and other Rothstein investors' accounts were held at a Toronto-Dominion Bank branch in Fort Lauderdale.\n\nAbraxas Discala, a businessman and former husband of The Sopranos' Jamie-Lynn Sigler, reportedly raised $30 million through his hedge fund which he invested into Rothstein's scheme.\n\nSince 1983, George G. Levin and his wife, Gayla Sue have lived in Fort Lauderdale's Bay Colony on the Intracoastal Waterway, in a 2-story, home with 8 bathrooms and a large pool, valued at $2 million.\nLevin has a pattern of filing complaints when his unsavory/fraudulent business ventures are exposed. According to federal court documents, from 1985–1996 Levin's former business GGL Industries, dba Classic Motor Carriages defrauded hundreds of customers, selling kit cars. The federal government filed criminal charges against the company and GGL pleaded guilty to mail fraud in 1999 and agreed to pay $2.5 million in restitution.\n\nStuart Rado had been a consumer activist who organized GGL's victims and helped spur the government action. Levin subsequently sued Rado for violating the Florida Trade Secrets Act. Rado was diagnosed with cancer during the lawsuit. It was a classic frivolous SLAPP suit (\"Strategic Lawsuit Against Public Participation\"). On September 19, 1997, the finding against Mr. Rado was that he pay plaintiff's attorneys' fees.\nThe federal motion states:\n\nGGL's fraudulent scheme necessarily included as an intricate part the silencing of its critics, among whom was Rado. It did this by using the courts to intimidate Rado into being silent and causing Rado to spend money he could not afford. It was GGL's intention (as one of GGL's attorneys said to Rado [in a 1994 deposition]) to make Rado's net worth go south. GGL and its attorneys forced Rado to incur the expenses of defending two lawsuits for over 4 years. Rado had to incur these expenses and live day-to-day with a barrage of pleadings, depositions and other legal maneuvers by GGL. He had to endure this even though he did nothing legally wrong, and even though GGL was in fact at the same time continuing to perpetrate its nationwide fraud. Rado was being put through this because Rado dared to contact some of GGL's victims and tell them that if they were injured by GGL they should contact the Florida Attorney General for help. What is even more despicable is that GGL knew that Rado was dying of cancer but continued to pursue him with motions and notices of trial and other pleadings, one such notice of hearing being served within days of brain surgery.\n\nAlthough a convicted felon, GGL hounded Rado's estate for the payment of $80,000 in attorney's fees.\n\nThe state of Florida filed suit against the company alleging deceptive business practices and civil theft. A special assistant attorney general, Herbert Stettin, led the investigation. Stettin is now the trustee overseeing the Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler bankruptcy case.\n\nLevin continues to sell kit cars under a different company name, StreetBeasts.\n\nAccording to a Florida District Court of Appeals case published in 2002, Levin acquired property free and clear for less than the cost of the first mortgage, through a fraudulent transfer.\n\nThe allegations are: George Levin was the general partner (\"GP\") who solicited each limited partner (\"LP\") to contribute at least $1 million. Initially, each LP contributed $250,000, subject to periodic capital calls up to the amount of their commitments. They were promised 12% annually (15% for first $100 million), to be paid quarterly. The general partner had to maintain a balance of not less than 10% of all contributions after any quarterly distributions. The general partner also gave a \"clawback\" guaranty to all LP's equal to their original contributions. LP's could not request redemptions during an initial one-year \"lock-up\" period and were required to give 90 days' notice for any withdrawals. Redemptions would be paid from the GP's own capital account \"to the extent available\" with a 10% hold-back, but otherwise, only from the purchased lawsuits settlement stream.\n\nBanyon had paid Rothstein's firm at least $656 million, but the law firm anticipated $1.1 billion over a maximum 24-month period. It allegedly received and reinvested about $500 million. Levin expected to make 40% over 24 months but to only pay out 24%. Rothstein's law firm's IOLTA trust accounts established \"for the plaintiff\" in the purported litigation settlements were used to fund the phony settlement accounts, after the law firm had paid its overhead, keeping its insolvent operation afloat, which included \"gifts\" to partners and money given to politicians, charities, and pay for a massive advertising budget, as well as Rothstein's personal lifestyle, over three years, amounting to approximately a $500 million loss.\n\nThe interest on the funded IOLTA accounts went to the Florida Bar monthly, which was many millions, based on the Banyon contributions. In its prospectus, Banyon claimed to have a legal opinion that Banyon's interest in the IOLTA trust accounts \"perfected automatically on execution of the transfer documents\" – that the lawsuit proceeds assignments created by general counsel, David Boden. The LP's were warned that they could be taxed on the Partnership's income and realized gains even if no distributions were made. As long as reinvestments were ongoing, the ponzi scheme was facilitated.\n\n1. Venture capitalist Doug Von Allmen's companies' total loss, approximately $105.5 million, through the Banyon Income Fund include:\n\n2. BFMC Investment LLC, owned by Barry Florescue: $2.4 million\n\n3. Socialite art dealer Bonnie Barnett, mother of defendant, Andrew Barnett\n\n4. The family of car dealers, Ed and Ted Morse.\n\n5. Ballamor Capital Management, Radnor, PA: $30 million.\n\n\nOn November 19, 2009, Rothstein never appeared for a deposition, noticed in the bankruptcy case by investors' attorney John Genovese at Genovese's law office.\n\nBanyon and other Rothstein investors' accounts were held at a Toronto-Dominion Bank branch in Fort Lauderdale.\n\n"}
{"id": "378138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=378138", "title": "Slimelight", "text": "Slimelight\n\nSlimelight (sometimes referred to as Slimes) is a London club night. It is the longest running alternative-dark scene club event in the world, and has been at its present location, Electrowerkz, since 1987.\n\nThe club takes place every Saturday night from until . The venue has 3 levels with 2 stages, and 5 distinct areas—usually Slimelight has 2 or 3 dance floors open. Most of the ground floor exists in its current state due to a pop up restaurant from Carsten Höller which co-existed with the club for several months.\n\nA variety of music genres are played, pre-eminently: electronic body music (EBM), futurepop, electro-industrial/aggrotech, darkwave, goth rock/deathrock, batcave, old-school synthpop, coldwave/new wave, old-school EBM, industrial/post-industrial and crossover electronic music including minimal tech, dark techno and dark trance spread over 2 or 3 dance floors. \n\nSlimelight was initially a private members only night club with a bring your own drink policy, and any new members would be required to be nominated by a minimum of two existing members. This changed in the late 90s when it became a licensed premises. During the club nights in the early nineties the club would often show art-house and alternative horror movies to entertain club goers when not dancing on the one dance floor playing a cross section of alternative music before the second dance floor concentrating on goth music opened in 1991 leaving the existing floor to concentrate on industrial. The nights were frequented by people who wanted to express themselves freely by their sense of fashion with the majority of the club members in the mid nineties would be either new wave hippies, goths, industrial fans, or part of the fetish scene.\n\nPre Slimelight concerts take place on a regular basis which normally include free entry to the club, and from time to time live acts appear as part of actual club night. Artists who have appeared at Slimelight over the years include VNV Nation, The Crüxshadows, Assemblage 23, Velvet Acid Christ and Nitzer Ebb.\n\nThe club night started out in the 1980s as a squat in Ladbroke Grove, London. At that time it had the name the Kitkat Club at the Pleasure Dive.\n\nThe club's facilities were rather basic when it was first started. The name comes from the fact that for a brief period in the summer of 1987 the club was held in a disused church on High Holborn, and \"The Slimelight\" is a parody of The Limelight, another famous club of that era which was also located in a church in London's Shaftesbury Avenue. Over the years the club has been renovated and upgraded to feature all the mod cons of a proper nightclub, however it retains much of its decaying, abandoned feeling, due partly to the architecture and the state of disrepair of some facilities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054181", "title": "The Jackson 5ive (TV series)", "text": "The Jackson 5ive (TV series)\n\nThe Jackson 5ive is a Saturday morning cartoon series produced by Rankin/Bass and Motown Productions on ABC from September 11, 1971 to October 14, 1972; a fictionalized portrayal of the careers of Motown recording group the Jackson 5. The series was rebroadcast in syndication through during the 1984–1985 Saturday morning season, during a period when Michael Jackson was riding a major wave of popularity as a solo artist. It also briefly re-aired in 1999 on TV Land as part of their \"Super Retrovision Saturdaze\" lineup. The series was animated mainly in London at the studios of Halas and Batchelor, and some animation done at Estudios Moro, Barcelona, Spain and Topcraft, Japan. The director was Spanish-American Robert Balser.\n\nDue to high demands on the group, the roles of Jackie, Tito, Jermaine, Marlon, and Michael were played by voice actors, with records of the group's songs being used for the musical tracks of the show. The group did make some contribution to the cartoon in the form of live photographs of each member morphing into a cartoon which was shown in the title screen medley. Although the musical scenes of the cartoon were chiefly animation, an occasional live-action footage of a concert or music video of the Jackson 5 would be spliced into the cartoon series. The actual Jackson 5 also contributed to the show by posing for pictures prior to the cartoon's debut which were used as posters, newspaper clips and \"TV Guide\" spots advertising the forthcoming TV series.\n\nThough Berry Gordy did not provide the original voice (his character was voiced by Paul Frees) nor advertised his name, his character was frequently involved as the \"adult figure\" to the group. R&B/Pop singer Diana Ross contributed to voice her fictionalized self in the debut episode. The premise of the show is that the Jackson Five would have adventures similar to \"Josie and the Pussycats\", \"Alvin & the Chipmunks\" or \"The Partridge Family\", with the unique addition being that Berry Gordy, the manager of the band in the show's universe, would come up with an idea for publicity for the band, such as having to do farm work or play a concert for the President of the United States. The series was followed by \"The Jacksons\", a live action variety show, in 1976.\n\nA specially recorded medley of five Jackson 5 #1 hits—\"I Want You Back\", \"The Love You Save\", \"ABC\", \"I'll Be There\", and \"Mama's Pearl\"—served as the show's theme song. Each episode would feature 2 songs by the Jackson 5. The songs were derived from their albums \"Diana Ross Presents The Jackson 5\", \"ABC\", \"Maybe Tomorrow\", and \"Third Album\". In the newer episodes, from 1972, eight songs were derived from Michael Jackson's album \"Got to Be There\" and two songs from the Jackson 5 album \"Lookin' Through the Windows\".\n\nBecause Michael Jackson owned many pets in real life, a few pets were added as extra characters to the cartoon. They included Michael's pet rats, Ray and Charles (alluding to singer Ray Charles, one of his idols), and his pet snake Rosey 'The Crusher' (who is male). Other than the mice chirping, the pets never spoke, but usually either attributed to assistance, mischief or joining the Jackson brothers in performances on the show.\n\nLike most 1970s-era Saturday morning cartoon series, \"The Jackson 5ive\" contained an adult laugh track. Rankin-Bass experimented with creating their own laugh track, a practice Hanna-Barbera had implemented in 1971. This was done to avoid paying large fees to Charley Douglass, who edited laugh tracks onto the majority of network television shows at the time. Like Hanna-Barbera, Rankin/Bass isolated several snippets of canned chuckles from Douglass’ library, and inserted them onto the soundtrack. The laughs initially consisted of only loud eruptions; mild jokes received unnatural bouts of laughter, while other times, the laughter would erupt mid-sentence.\n\nThe studio had improved the process by the second season, using more modulated laughs culled from Douglass's 1971-1972 library. Laughs did not erupt mid-sentence like the first season and were better timed by Rankin/Bass sound engineers. The improved technique was also utilized for sister series \"The Osmonds\". Unlike Hanna-Barbera's laugh track, Rankin/Bass provided a larger variety of laughs.\n\nRankin/Bass ceased using laugh tracks after \"The Jackson 5ive\" and \"The Osmonds\" ended their original run.\n\nThis season is billed as \"The New Jackson 5ive Show\".\nOn January 15, 2013, DreamWorks Classics released \"The Jackson 5ive: The Complete Animated Series\" on DVD and Blu-ray in Region 1 for the very first time. The 2-disc set features all 23 episodes of the series. For the remastered print (\"The Jackson 5ive: The Complete Animated Series\"), the mono soundtrack was replaced by the 5.1 surround soundtrack in the songs, the rest of the scenes kept the mono soundtrack. As of 2018, both the Blu-ray and the DVD are now out of print and very hard to find.\n\n"}
{"id": "8481045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8481045", "title": "The World Challenge", "text": "The World Challenge\n\nThe World Challenge is a competition that was first hosted in 2005 by BBC and sponsored by Newsweek and Shell. It accepts projects from around the world that deal with social, environmental and community issues and uses business methods to try to improve upon those issues in the world.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40353913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40353913", "title": "Tiberinalia", "text": "Tiberinalia\n\nThe Tiberinalia is a Roman festival of late antiquity, recorded in the Calendar of Filocalus (354 AD), on August 17 \"(XVI Kal. Sept.)\", the same day as the archaic Portunalia. As a festival honoring Father Tiber, it may reflect renewed Imperial patronage of traditional Roman deities, in particular the dedication made to \"Tiberinus\" by the emperors Diocletian (reigned 284–305) and Maximianus.\n\nAugust's festivals deal with themes of agricultural bounty ensured by sun and water, centering on the Volcanalia of Volcanus (Vulcan) on August 23. The Portunalia, like the Volcanalia, was represented in large letters on extant \"fasti\", indicating that it was regarded as among the most ancient holidays that were on the calendar before 509 BC.\n\nPortunus was originally a guardian of gateways and only later by extension a harbor god, and his relation to Tiber or Tiberinus as god of the Tiber river is debatable; some have seen the Tiberinalia as assimilating the archaic Portunalia. Theodor Mommsen inferred that the two gods were the same, but other scholars have rejected the identification. Varro says that the Portunalia marks the institution of a shrine \"(aedes)\" to Portunus \"in portu Tiberino\", but the meaning of \"portus\" here is unclear; Ovid mentions \"atria Tiberina\" (\"halls of Tiberinus\").\n"}
{"id": "19740545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19740545", "title": "Traffic collision", "text": "Traffic collision\n\nA traffic collision, also called a motor vehicle collision (MVC) among other terms, occurs when a vehicle collides with another vehicle, pedestrian, animal, road debris, or other stationary obstruction, such as a tree, pole or building. Traffic collisions often result in injury, death, and property damage.\n\nA number of factors contribute to the risk of collision, including vehicle design, speed of operation, road design, road environment, and driver skill, impairment due to alcohol or drugs, and behavior, notably speeding and street racing. Worldwide, motor vehicle collisions lead to death and disability as well as financial costs to both society and the individuals involved.\nIn 2013, 54 million people worldwide sustained injuries from traffic collisions. This resulted in 1.4 million deaths in 2013, up from 1.1 million deaths in 1990. About 68,000 of these occurred in children less than five years old. Almost all high-income countries have decreasing death rates, while the majority of low-income countries have increasing death rates due to traffic collisions. Middle-income countries have the highest rate with 20 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants, accounting for 80% of all road fatalities with 52% of all vehicles. While the death rate in Africa is the highest (24.1 per 100,000 inhabitants), the lowest rate is to be found in Europe (10.3 per 100,000 inhabitants).\n\nTraffic collisions can be classified by general types. Types of collision include head-on, road departure, rear-end, side collisions, and rollovers.\n\nMany different terms are commonly used to describe vehicle collisions. The World Health Organization uses the term \"road traffic injury\", while the U.S. Census Bureau uses the term \"motor vehicle accidents (MVA),\" and Transport Canada uses the term \"motor vehicle traffic collision\" (MVTC). Other common terms include \"auto accident\", \"car accident\", \"car crash\", \"car smash\", \"car wreck\", \"motor vehicle collision\" (\"MVC\"), \"personal injury collision\" (\"PIC\"), \"road accident\", \"road traffic accident\" (\"RTA\"), \"road traffic collision\" (\"RTC\"), and \"road traffic incident\" (\"RTI\") as well as more unofficial terms including \"smash-up\", \"pile-up\", and \"fender bender\".\n\nSome organizations have begun to avoid the term \"accident\", instead preferring terms such as \"collision\", \"crash\" or \"incident\". This is because the term \"accident\" implies that there is no-one to blame, whereas most traffic collisions are the result of driving under the influence, excessive speed, distractions such as mobile phones or other risky behavior.\n\nHistorically, in the United States, the use of terms other than \"accidents\" had been criticized for holding back safety improvements, based on the idea that a culture of blame may discourage the involved parties from fully disclosing the facts, and thus frustrate attempts to address the real root causes.\n\nFollowing collisions, long-lasting psychological trauma may occur. These issues may make those who have been in a crash afraid to drive again. In some cases, the psychological trauma may affect individuals' life can cause difficulty to go to work, attend school, or perform family responsibilities.\n\nA number of physical injuries can commonly result from the blunt force trauma caused by a collision, ranging from bruising and contusions to catastrophic physical injury (e.g., paralysis) or death.\n\nA 1985 study by K. Rumar, using British and American crash reports as data, suggested 57% of crashes were due solely to driver factors, 27% to combined roadway and driver factors, 6% to combined vehicle and driver factors, 3% solely to roadway factors, 3% to combined roadway, driver, and vehicle factors, 2% solely to vehicle factors, and 1% to combined roadway and vehicle factors. Reducing the severity of injury in crashes is more important than reducing incidence and ranking incidence by broad categories of causes is misleading regarding severe injury reduction. Vehicle and road modifications are generally more effective than behavioral change efforts with the exception of certain laws such as required use of seat belts, motorcycle helmets and graduated licensing of teenagers.\n\nHuman factors in vehicle collisions include anything related to drivers and other road users that may contribute to a collision. Examples include driver behavior, visual and auditory acuity, decision-making ability, and reaction speed. \n\nA 1985 report based on British and American crash data found driver error, intoxication and other human factors contribute wholly or partly to about 93% of crashes.\n\nDrivers distracted by mobile devices had nearly four times greater risk of crashing their cars than those who were not. Dialing a phone is the most dangerous distraction, increasing a drivers’ chance of crashing by 12 times, followed by reading or writing, which increased the risk by 10 times.\n\nAn RAC survey of British drivers found 78% of drivers thought they were highly skilled at driving, and most thought they were better than other drivers, a result suggesting overconfidence in their abilities. Nearly all drivers who had been in a crash did not believe themselves to be at fault. One survey of drivers reported that they thought the key elements of good driving were:\n\nAlthough proficiency in these skills is taught and tested as part of the driving exam, a \"good\" driver can still be at a high risk of crashing because:\n\n...the feeling of being confident in more and more challenging situations is experienced as evidence of driving ability, and that 'proven' ability reinforces the feelings of confidence. Confidence feeds itself and grows unchecked until something happens – a near-miss or an accident.\n\nAn AXA survey concluded Irish drivers are very safety-conscious relative to other European drivers. However, this does not translate to significantly lower crash rates in Ireland.\n\nAccompanying changes to road designs have been wide-scale adoptions of rules of the road alongside law enforcement policies that included drink-driving laws, setting of speed limits, and speed enforcement systems such as speed cameras. Some countries' driving tests have been expanded to test a new driver's behavior during emergencies, and their hazard perception.\n\nThere are demographic differences in crash rates. For example, although young people tend to have good reaction times, disproportionately more young male drivers feature in collisions,\nwith researchers observing that many exhibit behaviors and attitudes to risk that can place them in more hazardous situations than other road users.\nThis is reflected by actuaries when they set insurance rates for different age groups, partly based on their age, sex, and choice of vehicle. Older drivers with slower reactions might be expected to be involved in more collisions, but this has not been the case as they tend to drive less and, apparently, more cautiously.\nAttempts to impose traffic policies can be complicated by local circumstances and driver behavior. In 1969 Leeming warned that there is a balance to be struck when \"improving\" the safety of a road:\n\nConversely, a location that does not look dangerous may have a high crash frequency. This is, in part, because if drivers perceive a location as hazardous, they take more care. Collisions may be more likely to happen when hazardous road or traffic conditions are not obvious at a glance, or where the conditions are too complicated for the limited human machine to perceive and react in the time and distance available. High incidence of crashes is not indicative of high injury risk. Crashes are common in areas of high vehicle congestion, but fatal crashes occur disproportionately on rural roads at night when traffic is relatively light.\n\nThis phenomenon has been observed in risk compensation research, where the predicted reductions in collision rates have not occurred after legislative or technical changes. One study observed that the introduction of improved brakes resulted in more aggressive driving, and another argued that compulsory seat belt laws have not been accompanied by a clearly attributed fall in overall fatalities. Most claims of risk compensation offsetting the effects of vehicle regulation and belt use laws have been discredited by research using more refined data.\n\nIn the 1990s, Hans Monderman's studies of driver behavior led him to the realization that signs and regulations had an adverse effect on a driver's ability to interact safely with other road users. Monderman developed shared space principles, rooted in the principles of the woonerven of the 1970s. He concluded that the removal of highway clutter, while allowing drivers and other road users to mingle with equal priority, could help drivers recognize environmental clues. They relied on their cognitive skills alone, reducing traffic speeds radically and resulting in lower levels of road casualties and lower levels of congestion.\n\nSome crashes are intended; staged crashes, for example, involve at least one party who hopes to crash a vehicle in order to submit lucrative claims to an insurance company. In the USA, in the 1990s, criminals recruited Latin immigrants to deliberately crash cars, usually by cutting in front of another car and slamming on the brakes. It was an illegal and risky job, and they were typically paid only $100. Jose Luis Lopez Perez, a staged crash driver, died after one such maneuver, leading to an investigation that uncovered the increasing frequency of this type of crash.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Transportation's \"Federal Highway Administration\" review research on traffic speed in 1998. The summary says:\n\nThe Road and Traffic Authority (RTA) of the Australian state of New South Wales (NSW) asserts speeding (traveling too fast for the prevailing conditions or above the posted speed limit) is a factor in about 40 percent of road deaths. The RTA also say speeding increases the risk of a crash and its severity. On another web page, the RTA qualify their claims by referring to one specific piece of research from 1997, and writes \"research has shown that the risk of a crash causing death or injury increases rapidly, even with small increases above an appropriately set speed limit.\"\n\nThe contributory factor report in the official British road casualty statistics show for 2006, that \"exceeding speed limit\" was a contributory factor in 5% of all casualty crashes (14% of all fatal crashes), and \"traveling too fast for conditions\" was a contributory factor in 11% of all casualty crashes (18% of all fatal crashes).\n\nA common cause of accidents is driving faster than one can stop within their field of vision. Such practice is illegal and is particularly responsible for an increase of fatalities at night – when it occurs most.\n\nDriver impairment describes factors that prevent the driver from driving at their normal level of skill. Common impairments include:\n\n\nAccording to the Government of Canada, coroner reports from 2008 suggested almost 40% of fatally injured drivers consumed some quantity of alcohol before the collision. \n\nPoor eyesight and/or physical impairment, with many jurisdictions setting simple sight tests and/or requiring appropriate vehicle modifications before being allowed to drive;\n\nInsurance statistics demonstrate a notably higher incidence of collisions and fatalities among drivers aged in their teens or early twenties, with insurance rates reflecting this data. These drivers have the highest incidence of both collisions and fatalities among all driver age groups, a fact that was observed well before the advent of mobile phones.\n\nFemales in this age group exhibit somewhat lower collision and fatality rates than males but still register well above the median for drivers of all ages. Also within this group, the highest collision incidence rate occurs within the first year of licensed driving. For this reason, many US states have enacted a zero-tolerance policy wherein receiving a moving violation within the first six months to one year of obtaining a license results in automatic license suspension. No US state allows fourteen year-olds to obtain drivers’ licenses any longer.\n\nOld age, with some jurisdictions requiring driver retesting for reaction speed and eyesight after a certain age.\n\n\nVarious factors such as fatigue or sleep deprivation might increase the risk, or numbers of hours driving might increase the risk of an accident.\n\nIncluding some prescription drugs, over the counter drugs (notably antihistamines, opioids and muscarinic antagonists), and illegal drugs.\n\nResearch suggests that the driver's attention is affected by distracting sounds such as conversations and operating a mobile phone while driving. Many jurisdictions now restrict or outlaw the use of some types of phone within the car. Recent research conducted by British scientists suggests that music can also have an effect; classical music is considered to be calming, yet too much could relax the driver to a condition of distraction. On the other hand, hard rock may encourage the driver to step on the acceleration pedal, thus creating a potentially dangerous situation on the road.\n\nCell phone use is an increasingly significant problem on the roads and as the U.S. National Safety Council compiled more than 30 studies postulating that hands-free is not a safer option, because the brain remains distracted by the conversation and cannot focus solely on the task of driving.\n\nSome traffic collisions are caused intentionally by a driver. For example, an accident may be caused by a driver who intends to commit suicide. Accidents may also be intentionally caused by people who hope to make an insurance claim against the other driver, or may be staged for such purposes as insurance fraud. Motor vehicles may also be involved in collisions as part of a deliberate effort to hurt other people, such as in a vehicle-ramming attack.\n\nSeveral conditions can combine to create a much worse situation, for example:\n\nThus, there are situations when a person may be impaired, but still legally allowed to drive, and becomes a potential hazard to themselves and other road users. Pedestrians or cyclists are affected in the same way and can similarly jeopardize themselves or others when on the road.\n\nA 1985 US study showed that about 34% of serious crashes had contributing factors related to the roadway or its environment. Most of these crashes also involved a human factor. The road or environmental factor was either noted as making a significant contribution to the circumstances of the crash, or did not allow room to recover. In these circumstances, it is frequently the driver who is blamed rather than the road; those reporting the collisions have a tendency to overlook the human factors involved, such as the subtleties of design and maintenance that a driver could fail to observe or inadequately compensate for.\n\nResearch has shown that careful design and maintenance, with well-designed intersections, road surfaces, visibility and traffic control devices, can result in significant improvements in collision rates.\n\nIndividual roads also have widely differing performance in the event of an impact. In Europe, there are now EuroRAP tests that indicate how \"self-explaining\" and forgiving a particular road and its roadside would be in the event of a major incident.\n\nIn the UK, research has shown that investment in a safe road infrastructure program could yield a ⅓ reduction in road deaths, saving as much as £6 billion per year. A consortium of 13 major road safety stakeholders have formed the Campaign for Safe Road Design, which is calling on the UK Government to make safe road design a national transport priority.\n\nResearch has shown that, across all collision types, it is less likely that seat belts were worn in collisions involving death or serious injury, rather than light injury; wearing a seat belt reduces the risk of death by about 45 percent. Seat belt use is controversial, with notable critics such as Professor John Adams suggesting that their use may lead to a net increase in road casualties due to a phenomenon known as risk compensation. However, actual observation of driver behaviors before and after seat belt laws does not support the risk compensation hypothesis.\nSeveral important driving behaviors were observed on the road before and after the belt use law was enforced in Newfoundland, and in Nova Scotia during the same period without a law. Belt use increased from 16 percent to 77 percent in Newfoundland and remained virtually unchanged in Nova Scotia. Four driver behaviors (speed, stopping at intersections when the control light was amber, turning left in front of oncoming traffic, and gaps in following distance) were measured at various sites before and after the law. Changes in these behaviors in Newfoundland were similar to those in Nova Scotia, except that drivers in Newfoundland drove slower on expressways after the law, contrary to the risk compensation theory.\n\nA well-designed and well-maintained vehicle, with good brakes, tires and well-adjusted suspension will be more controllable in an emergency and thus be better equipped to avoid collisions. Some mandatory vehicle inspection schemes include tests for some aspects of roadworthiness, such as the UK's MOT test or German TÜV conformance inspection.\n\nThe design of vehicles has also evolved to improve protection after collision, both for vehicle occupants and for those outside of the vehicle. Much of this work was led by automotive industry competition and technological innovation, leading to measures such as Saab's safety cage and reinforced roof pillars of 1946, Ford´s 1956 \"Lifeguard\" safety package, and Saab and Volvo's introduction of standard fit seatbelts in 1959. Other initiatives were accelerated as a reaction to consumer pressure, after publications such as Ralph Nader's 1965 book \"Unsafe at Any Speed\" accused motor manufacturers of indifference towards safety.\n\nIn the early 1970s, British Leyland started an intensive programme of vehicle safety research, producing a number of prototype experimental safety vehicles demonstrating various innovations for occupant and pedestrian protection such as air bags, anti-lock brakes, impact-absorbing side-panels, front and rear head restraints, run-flat tires, smooth and deformable front-ends, impact-absorbing bumpers, and retractable headlamps. Design has also been influenced by government legislation, such as the Euro NCAP impact test.\n\nCommon features designed to improve safety include thicker pillars, safety glass, interiors with no sharp edges, stronger bodies, other active or passive safety features, and smooth exteriors to reduce the consequences of an impact with pedestrians.\n\nThe UK Department for Transport publish road casualty statistics for each type of collision and vehicle through its Road Casualties Great Britain report.\nThese statistics show a ten to one ratio of in-vehicle fatalities between types of car. In most cars, occupants have a 2–8% chance of death in a two-car collision.\n\nSome crash types tend to have more serious consequences. Rollovers have become more common in recent years, perhaps due to increased popularity of taller SUVs, people carriers, and minivans, which have a higher center of gravity than standard passenger cars. Rollovers can be fatal, especially if the occupants are ejected because they were not wearing seat belts (83% of ejections during rollovers were fatal when the driver did not wear a seat belt, compared to 25% when they did).\nAfter a new design of Mercedes Benz notoriously failed a 'moose test' (sudden swerving to avoid an obstacle), some manufacturers enhanced suspension using stability control linked to an anti-lock braking system to reduce the likelihood of rollover. After retrofitting these systems to its models in 1999–2000, Mercedes saw its models involved in fewer crashes.\n\nNow, about 40% of new US vehicles, mainly the SUVs, vans and pickup trucks that are more susceptible to rollover, are being produced with a lower center of gravity and enhanced suspension with stability control linked to its anti-lock braking system to reduce the risk of rollover and meet US federal requirements that mandate anti-rollover technology by September 2011.\n\nMotorcyclists have little protection other than their clothing and helmets. This difference is reflected in the casualty statistics, where they are more than twice as likely to suffer severely after a collision. In 2005, there were 198,735 road crashes with 271,017 reported casualties on roads in Great Britain. This included 3,201 deaths (1.1%) and 28,954 serious injuries (10.7%) overall.\nOf these casualties 178,302 (66%) were car users and 24,824 (9%) were motorcyclists, of whom 569 were killed (2.3%) and 5,939 seriously injured (24%).\n\nStudies in United States have shown that poor people have a greater risk of dying in a car crash than people who are well-off. Car deaths are also higher in poorer states.\n\nSimilar studies in France have shown the same results. This may be due to working-class people having less access to secure equipment in cars, having older cars which are less protected against crash, and must cover more distance to go to work each day.\n\nOther possibly hazardous factors that may alter a driver's soundness on the road includes:\n\nA large body of knowledge has been amassed on how to prevent car crashes, and reduce the severity of those that do occur. See Road Traffic Safety.\n\nOwing to the global and massive scale of the issue, with predictions that by 2020 road traffic deaths and injuries will exceed HIV/AIDS as a burden of death and disability, the United Nations and its subsidiary bodies have passed resolutions and held conferences on the issue. The first United Nations General Assembly resolution and debate was in 2003 The World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims was declared in 2005. In 2009 the first high level ministerial conference on road safety was held in Moscow.\n\nThe World Health Organization, a specialized agency of the United Nations Organization, in its Global Status Report on Road Safety 2009, estimates that over 90% of the world’s fatalities on the roads occur in low-income and middle-income countries, which have only 48% of the world’s registered vehicles, and predicts road traffic injuries will rise to become the fifth leading cause of death by 2030\n\nCollisions migration refers to a situation where action to reduce road traffic collisions in one place may result in those collisions resurfacing elsewhere. For example, an accident blackspot may occur at a dangerous bend. The treatment for this may be to increase signage, post an advisory speed limit, apply a high-friction road surface, add crash barriers or any one of a number of other visible interventions. The immediate result may be to reduce collisions at the bend, but the subconscious relaxation on leaving the \"dangerous\" bend may cause drivers to act with fractionally less care on the rest of the road, resulting in an increase in collisions elsewhere on the road, and no overall improvement over the area. In the same way, increasing familiarity with the treated area will often result in a reduction over time to the previous level of care (regression to the mean) and may result in faster speeds around the bend due to perceived increased safety (risk compensation).\n\nRoad injuries resulted in 1.4 million deaths in 2013 up from 1.1 million deaths in 1990. This is about 2.5% of all deaths. In 2004 50 million more were injured in motor vehicle collisions. India recorded 105,000 traffic deaths in a year, followed by China with over 96,000 deaths. This makes motor vehicle collisions the leading cause of injury and death among children worldwide 10–19 years old (260,000 children die a year, 10 million are injured) and the sixth leading preventable cause of death in the United States (45,800 people died and 2.4 million were injured in 2005). In the state of Texas alone, there were a total of 415,892 traffic collisions, including 3,005 fatal crashes in 2012. In Canada, they are the cause of 48% of severe injuries.\n\nThe safety performance of roadways is almost always reported as a rate. That is, some measure of harm (deaths, injuries, or number of crashes) divided by some measure of exposure to the risk of this harm. Rates are used so the safety performance of different locations can be compared, and to prioritize safety improvements.\n\nCommon rates related to road traffic fatalities include the number of deaths per capita, per registered vehicle, per licensed driver, or per vehicle mile or kilometer traveled. Simple counts are almost never used. The annual count of fatalities is a rate, namely, the number of fatalities per year.\n\nThere is no one rate that is superior to others in any general sense. The rate to be selected depends on the question being asked – and often also on what data are available. What is important is to specify exactly what rate is measured and how it relates to the problem being addressed. Some agencies concentrate on crashes per total vehicle distance traveled. Others combine rates. The U.S. state of Iowa, for example, selects high collision locations based on a combination of crashes per million miles traveled, crashes per mile per year, and value loss (crash severity).\n\nThe definition of a road-traffic fatality varies from country to country. In the United States, the definition used in the Fatality Analysis Reporting System (FARS) run by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) is a person who dies within 30 days of a crash on a US public road involving a vehicle with an engine, the death being the result of the crash. In the U.S., therefore, if a driver has a non-fatal heart attack that leads to a road-traffic crash that causes death, that is a road-traffic fatality. However, if the heart attack causes death prior to the crash, then that is not a road-traffic fatality.\n\nThe definition of a road-traffic fatality can change with time in the same country. For example, fatality was defined in France as a person who dies in the six days (pre 2005) after the collision and was subsequently changed to the 30 days (post 2005) after the collision.\n\nThe world's first recorded road traffic death involving a motor vehicle occurred on 31 August 1869. Irish scientist Mary Ward died when she fell out of her cousins' steam car and was run over by it.\n\nThe British road engineer J. J. Leeming, compared the statistics for fatality rates in Great Britain, for transport-related incidents both before and after the introduction of the motor vehicle, for journeys, including those once by water that now are undertaken by motor vehicle: For the period 1863–1870 there were: 470 fatalities per million of population (76 on railways, 143 on roads, 251 on water); for the period 1891–1900 the corresponding figures were: 348 (63, 107, 178); for the period 1931–1938: 403 (22, 311, 70) and for the year 1963: 325 (10, 278, 37). Leeming concluded that the data showed that \"travel accidents may even have been more frequent a century ago than they are now, at least for men\".\n\nIn 1969, a British road engineer compared the circumstances around road deaths as reported in various American states before the widespread introduction of speed limits and drunk-driving laws.\nThey took into account thirty factors which it was thought might affect the death rate. Among these were included the annual consumption of wine, of spirits and of malt beverages—taken individually—the amount spent on road maintenance, the minimum temperature, certain of the legal measures such as the amount spent on police, the number of police per 100,000 inhabitants, the follow-up programme on dangerous drivers, the quality of driver testing, and so on. The thirty factors were finally reduced to six by eliminating those found to have small or negligible effect. The final six were:\n\n\nThese are placed in descending order of importance. These six accounted for 70% of the variations in the rate.\nThe world's first autonomous car incident resulting in the death of a pedestrian occurred on 18 March 2018 in Arizona. The pedestrian was walking her bicycle outside of the crosswalk, and died in hospital after she was struck by a self-driving car being tested by Uber.\n\nThe global economic cost of MVCs was estimated at $518 billion per year in 2003, and $100 billion in developing countries. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention estimated the U.S. cost in 2000 at $230 billion. A 2010 US report estimated costs of $277 billion, which included lost productivity, medical costs, legal and court costs, emergency service costs (EMS), insurance administration costs, congestion costs, property damage, and workplace losses. \"The value of societal harm from motor vehicle crashes, which includes both economic impacts and valuation for lost quality-of-life, was $870.8 billion in 2010. Sixty-eight percent of this value represents lost quality-of-life, while 32 percent are economic impacts.\"\n\nThere are a number of possible legal consequences for causing a traffic collision, including:\n\nSometimes, people may make false insurance claims or commit insurance fraud by staging collisions or jumping in front of moving cars.\n\nIn the United States, individuals involved in motor vehicle collisions may be held financially liable for the consequences of a collision, including property damage, and injuries to passengers and drivers. Where another driver's vehicle is damaged as the result of an accident, some states allow the owner of the vehicle to recover both the cost of repair for the diminished value of the vehicle from the at-fault driver. Because the financial liability that results from causing an accident is so high, most U.S. states require drivers to carry liability insurance to cover these potential costs. In the event of serious injuries or fatalities, it is possible for injured persons to seek compensation in excess of the at-fault driver's insurance coverage.\n\nIn some cases, involving a defect in the design or manufacture of motor vehicles, such as where defective design results in SUV rollovers or sudden unintended acceleration, accidents caused by defective tires, or where injuries are caused or worsened as a result of defective airbags, it is possible that the manufacturer will face a class action lawsuit.\n\nCars have come to represent a part of the American Dream of ownership coupled with the freedom of the road. The violence of a car wreck provides a counterpoint to that promise and is the subject of artwork by a number of artists, such as John Salt, Jan Anders Nelson, and Li Yan. Though English, John Salt was drawn to American landscapes of wrecked vehicles like \"Desert Wreck\" (airbrushed oil on linen, 1972). Similarly, Jan Anders Nelson works with the wreck in its resting state in junkyards or forests, or as elements in his paintings and drawings. \"American Landscape\" is one example of Nelson´s focus on the violence of the wreck with cars and trucks piled into a heap, left to the forces of nature and time. This recurring theme of violence is echoed in the work of Li Yan. His painting \"Accident Nº 6\" looks at the energy released during a crash.\n\nAndy Warhol used newspaper pictures of car wrecks with dead occupants in a number of his \"Disaster\" series of silkscreened canvases. John Chamberlain used components of wrecked cars (such as bumpers and crumpled sheet metal fenders) in his welded sculptures.\n\n"}
{"id": "46272697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46272697", "title": "Tygerberg Zoo", "text": "Tygerberg Zoo\n\nTygerberg Zoo was a zoo near Stellenbosch, South Africa, which was the only zoo in the Western Cape province and the closest to Cape Town. Established in 1979, it was privately run, operated for 33 years, and closed in 2012. It was \"once a major tourist attraction and a hot spot for school educational outings\" according to \"Cape Times\" coverage of its closure. Featured animals included chimpanzees and tigers, lions, and cheetahs. The zoo had 160 bird species and 63 reptile species, and \"specialised in breeding rare and endangered animals.\"\n\nThe zoo was notable for its breeding successes, including the 1998 birth of \"the world's tiniest tortoise\", a baby Namaqua Speckled.\n\nA predecessor zoo was founded by John Spence and Geoff McLachlan at Kraaifontein in the outskirts of Cape Town in 1966. This zoo was soon moved, and at its peak had 61 mammal species and 160 bird species. It addressed a void created by decline and closure of the obsolete Groote Schuur Zoo, established in 1897 and known also as the Cape Town Zoo, that had been designed in a completely different era. The Groote Schuur Zoo fully closed in 1975.\n\nThe Tygerberg Zoo was established on its 24-acre property in 1979 by John Spence. Lorraine Spence met John in 1985, and came to the zoo later. John was director before his death in 2010; Lorraine, then director, announced and managed its closing in 2012. The zoo had 24 workers, four of whom lived on the property, in 2012.\n\nAccording to Chandré Gould and Marléne Burger's book, Secrets & Lies: Wouter Basson and South Africa’s Chemical and Biological Warfare Programme, the zoo was acquired in 1989 when, under the instruction of supposed \"foreign principles\", Dr Wouter Basson, then head of Project Coast, bought the Tygerberg zoo for the purposes of research into crowd control methods. The zoo, at the time, was owned by Basson's uncle, Cyrus Steyn, and the WPW Group purchased the zoo at a cost of R711 928. The intention was to generate funds 'for the CBW project'.\n\nJohn Spence died in 2010.\n\nThe zoo's closure in 2012 was, according to Lorraine Spence, due to decline of visitors during its last ten years, and expenses of animal feed and salaries, that made it no longer financially viable. The zoo's animals were to be dispersed to other zoos and to farms. Drakenstein Lion Park, also outside Cape Town, is one zoo that did receive many. It purpose-built and opened a modern facility for chimpanzees and small animals from Tygerberg. Drakenstein also was expected to receive Tygerberg's tigers and lions, presumably including the two from Novosibirsk, who were still there.\n\nVisitation was high on weekends before the scheduled closure. The last day Tygerberg Zoo was to be open for visitors was 4 November 2012.\n\nIt is also attracted international attention for John Spence's finding lions in captivity in Russia that were covered in the news as possible descendants of the extinct Cape lion population, and his bringing two of them back to the Tygerberg Zoo. Cape lions were a black-maned, large, and otherwise distinctive subpopulation of Southern African lions that were native to the Cape region of South Africa. They were hunted to extinction in the wild in the 1850s, and soon believed to have no survivors in captivity. John Spence was long intrigued by stories of Cape lions, including their scaling the walls of General van Riebeeck's castle in the 17th century (1619–1670). Spence believed some Cape lions might have been taken to Europe and interbred with other lions. He spent 30 years searching zoos and circuses world-wide, for lions that looked like Cape lions, until a friend sent photographs of lions in the Novosibirsk Zoo in Novosibirsk, Russia that did, in 2000. A black-maned lion named Simon, descended from lions which the zoo acquired in 1961, perhaps from a traveling circus, was the best specimen. He was exactly like Cape lions' in paintings (the only images available) that Spence had studied. John and Lorraine Spence visited and, with the assistance of a zoo in Vienna, were allowed to bring two of Simon's cubs back to Tygerberg Zoo.\n\nNews coverage during 2000–01 included titles such as the \"National Geographic News\"' \"Has Rare Lion of Africa's Cape Eluded Extinction?\", for its July 2001 story on Cape lions and John Spence's long search. Shortly before that, \"National Geographic Today\" featured a documentary special on the topic.\n\nFilmed at Tygerberg Zoo in 2001, John Spence explained he hoped to breed lions for the Cape area that looked like Cape lions, but avoided saying the cubs were descendants. He also expressed interest in having DNA-testing done to compare the cubs' DNA to surviving Cape lion DNA, but there was never any news of that happening.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "698027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=698027", "title": "Virginius Affair", "text": "Virginius Affair\n\nThe \"Virginius\" Affair was a diplomatic dispute that occurred from October 1873 to February 1875 between the United States, the United Kingdom, and Spain (then in control of Cuba), during the Ten Years' War. \"Virginius\" was a fast American ship hired by Cuban insurrectionists to land men and munitions in Cuba to attack the Spanish regime there. It was captured by the Spanish, who wanted to try the men onboard (many of whom were American and British citizens) as pirates and execute them. The Spanish executed 53 of the men but stopped when the British government demanded it. \n\nThroughout the ordeal there was loose talk that the U.S. might declare war on Spain. During the lengthy negotiations the Spanish government had undergone several changes in leadership. US consul Caleb Cushing ended the episode by negotiating $80,000 in reparations to be paid to the families of the Americans who were executed. British families were compensated by the Spanish government through negotiation prior to American compensation. The incident was remarkable for the use of international diplomacy for a peaceful settlement implemented by US Secretary of State Hamilton Fish, rather than opting for a costly war between the United States and Spain. The \"Virginius\" Affair started a resurgence in the US Navy following the American Civil War; its fleet had been heretofore inferior to the superior warships of Spain.\n\nAfter the American Civil War, the island country of Cuba under Spanish rule was one of the few Western Hemisphere countries in which slavery remained legal and was widely practiced. On October 10, 1868 a revolution broke out, known as the Ten Years' War, by Cuban landowners, led by Carlos Manuel de Céspedes. The Spanish, led initially by Francisco Lersundi, used the military to suppress the rebellion. In 1870, Secretary of State Hamilton Fish persuaded President Grant not to recognize Cuban belligerency, and the United States maintained an unstable peace with Spain.\n\nAs the Cuban war continued, international patriotic insurgency began to arise in support of the Cuban rebellion, and war bonds were sold in the US to support the Cuban resistance. One of the US Cuban patriots was John F. Patterson, who bought a former Confederate steamer, \"Virgin\", at the Washington Navy Yard, renaming her \"Virginius\". The legality of Patterson's purchase of \"Virginius\" would later come to national and international attention. The Cuban rebellion ended in an 1878 armistice after Spanish general Arsenio Martínez-Campos pardoned all Cuban rebels.\n\n\"Virginius\" was a small, high-speed side-wheel steamer built to serve as a blockade runner between Havana and Mobile, Alabama, for the Confederacy during the American Civil War. Originally built as \"Virgin\" by Aitken & Mansel of Whiteinch, Glasgow in 1864, she became a prize of the United States when captured on April 12, 1865. In August 1870, \"Virginius\" was purchased by an American, John F. Patterson, acting secretly as an agent for Cuban insurgent Manuel Quesada and two US citizens, Marshall O. Roberts and J.K. Roberts. The ship was originally captained by Francis Sheppherd. Both Patterson and Shepphard immediately registered the ship in the New York Custom House, having paid $2,000 to be bonded. However, no sureties were listed. Patterson took a required oath that he was the sole owner of \"Virginius\". The secret purpose for the purchase of \"Virginius\" was to transport men, munitions, and supplies to aid the Cuban rebellion. For three years the ship aided the Cuban rebellion and was protected by US naval ships, including and . The Spanish said that it was an outlaw ship and aggressively sought to capture it.\n\nCaptain Joseph Fry was made the new captain of \"Virginius\" from October 1873. Fry had served in the US Navy for 15 years, before joining the Confederacy during the Civil War. Fry was promoted to commodore in the Confederate Navy. However, after that position disappeared after the Union victory in 1865, Fry was underemployed. In 1873 he took the job as captain of \"Virginius\". \"Virginius\", moored in Kingston, Jamaica by this time needed repair, and the boilers were breaking down. As most of the previous crew had deserted, Fry recruited a new crew of 52 men, both American and British. Many were inexperienced and apparently did not understand that \"Virginius\" was supporting the Cuban rebellion. Three were very young recruits, no older than 13 years of age. \"Virginius\" took on 103 native Cuban soldiers that arrived on board a New York steamer. Fry had been warned by the US Consul at Kingston, Thomas H. Pearne, that he would be shot if captured. However, Fry did not believe the Spanish would shoot a blockade runner. In mid-October, Captain Fry, accompanied by four mercenaries, took \"Virginius\" to Haiti and loaded the ship with munitions. On October 30, \"Virginius\" sailed to Comito to pick up more weapons and then on the same day started toward Cuba. The Spanish had been warned when \"Virginius\" left Jamaica and sent out the warship to capture the vessel.\n\nOn October 30, 1873 \"Tornado\" spotted \"Virginius\" on open water from Cuba and gave chase. \"Virginius\" was heavily weighted and the stress from the boilers caused the ship to take on water, significantly slowing any progress. As the chase continued, \"Tornado\", a fast warship, fired on \"Virginius\" several times, damaging the top deck. Captain Fry surrendered \"Virginius\", knowing that his ship's overworked boilers and leaking hull could not outrun \"Tornado\" on the open sea. The Spanish quickly boarded and secured the ship. The entire crew was taken prisoner and the ship sailed to Santiago de Cuba.\n\nThe Spanish immediately ordered the entire crew to be put on trial as pirates. The entire \"Virginius\" crew, both American and British citizens, were found guilty by a court martial and were sentenced to death. The Spanish ignored the protest of American vice-consul, who attempted to give American citizens legal aid. On November 4, 1873, the four mercenaries who accompanied Capt. Fry were executed by firing squad without trial since he had already been condemned as a pirate. After the executions, the British vice-consul at Santiago, concerned that one of the mercenaries killed, George Washington Ryan, claimed British citizenship, wired Jamaica to receive aid from the British navy to stop further executions. Hearing news of the ship's capture and the executions, Altamont de Cordova, a Jamaican resident, was able to get British Commodore A.F.R. de Horsey to send the sloop under Sir Lambton Loraine, 11th Baronet to Santiago to stop further executions. On November 7, a further 37 crew members, including Captain Fry, were executed by firing squad. The Spanish soldiers decapitated them and trampled their bodies with horses. On November 8, twelve more crew members were executed until finally, HMS \"Niobe\" reached Santiago. The carnage stopped on the same day that Lorraine threatened local commander Juan N. Burriel that he would bombard Santiago if there were any more executions. A total of 53 were executed at Santiago under Burriel's authority.\n\nThe initial press reaction to the capture of \"Virginius\" was conservative, but as news of executions poured into the nation, certain newspapers became more aggressive in promoting Cuban intervention and war. The \"New York Times\" stated that if the executions of Americans from \"Virginius\" were illegal, war needed to be declared. The \"New York Tribune\" asserted that actions of Burriel and the Cuban Volunteers necessitated \"the death knell of Spanish power in America.\" The \"New York Herald\" demanded Secretary Hamilton Fish's resignation and the recognition by the US of the Cuban belligerency. \"The National Republican\", believing the threat of war with Spain to be imminent, encouraged the sale of Cuban bonds. The American public considered the executions as a national insult and rallied for intervention. Protest rallies took place across the nation in New Orleans, St. Louis, and Georgia, encouraging intervention in Cuba and vengeance on Spain.\n\nThe British Minister to the United States, Sir Edward Thornton, believed the American public was ready for war with Spain. A large rally in New York's Steinway Hall on November 17, 1873, led by future Secretary of State William Evarts, took a moderate position, and the meeting adopted a resolution that war would be necessary, yet regrettable, if Spain chose to \"consider our defense against savage butchery as a cause of war...\"\n\nOn Wednesday November 5, 1873, the first news from the US Consul-General in Havana, Henry C. Hall, informed the US State Department that \"Virginius\" had been captured. There was no knowledge that four mercenaries had already been killed, and Secretary of State Hamilton Fish believed the \"Virginius\" was just another ship captured aiding the Cuban rebellion. On November 7, Cuba headed the agenda of US President Ulysses S. Grant's Cabinet meeting as news came in of the deaths of Ryan and three other mercenaries. The Cabinet agreed that the executions would be \"regarded as an inhuman act not in accordance with the spirit of the civilization of the nineteenth century.\" On November 8, Fish met with Spanish minister Don José Polo de Barnabé and discussed the legality of the capture of \"Virginius\".\n\nOn November 11, Grant's Cabinet decided that war with Spain was not desirable, but Cuban intervention was possible. On November 12, five days after the event, Fish received devastating news that 37 crew members of \"Virginius\" had been executed. Fish ordered US Minister to Spain Daniel Sickles to protest the executions and demand reparations for any persons considered US citizens who were killed. On November 13, Fish formally protested to Polo and stated that the US had a free hand on Cuba and the \"Virginius\" Affair. On November 14, Grant's cabinet agreed that if US demands for reparations were not met, the Spanish legation would be closed. An exaggerated report came into the White House that more crew members had been shot. In reality, twelve crew members had been executed. On November 15, Polo visited Fish and stated that \"Virginius\" was a pirate ship and that her crew had been a hostile threat to Cuba. Fish, although doubtful of the legality of the ship's US ownership, was determined to be an advocate of the nation's honor in demanding reparations from Spain. l\n\nOn the same day, a cable from Fish arrived in Spain for Sickles demanding the return of \"Virginius\" to the US, the release of the crew that had escaped execution, a salute from Spain to the US flag, punishment for the perpetrators, and reparations for families.\n\nNegotiations in Spain between Sickles and Minister of State José de Carvajal became heated, and progress towards a settlement became unlikely. The Spanish press openly attacked Sickles, the US and Britain, intending to promote war between the three countries. As the Sickles-Carvajal negotiations broke down, President Emilio Castelar decided to settle the \"Virginius\" matter through Fish and Polo in Washington.\n\nOn Thanksgiving Day, November 27, Polo proposed to Fish that Spain would give up the \"Virginius\" and the remaining crew if the US would investigate the legal status of its ownership. Both Fish and Grant agreed to Polo's offer and that the Spanish salute to the US flag would be dispensed with if \"Virginius\" was found not have legal US private citizen ownership. On November 28, Polo and Fish met at the State Department and signed a formal agreement that included the return of \"Virginius\" and crew and an investigation by both governments of the legal ownership of \"Virginius\" and of any crimes committed by the Spanish Volunteers.\n\nThe threat of war between the two countries had been averted through negotiations, but the time and place of the surrender of the \"Virginius\" and the remaining crew remained undetermined for several days. On December 5, Fish and Polo signed an agreement that \"Virginius\", with the US flag flying, would be turned over to the US Navy on December 16 at the port of Bahía Honda. Sickles, having lost the confidence of Grant and Fish, resigned on December 20, 1873. On January 6, 1874, after advice from Fish on a replacement for Sickles, Grant appointed eminent attorney and Spanish scholar Caleb Cushing as Minister to Spain.\n\nOn December 16, \"Virginius\", now in complete disrepair and taking on water, was towed out to open sea with the US flag flying to be turned over to the US Navy. US Captain W.D. Whiting on board agreed with Spanish Commander Manuel de la Cámara to turn over \"Virginius\" the following day. l On December 17, at exactly 9:00 a.m., \"Virginius\" was formally turned over to the US Navy without incident. The same day, after an investigation, US Attorney George H. Williams ruled that the US ownership of \"Virginius\" had been fraudulent and that she had no right to fly the US flag; however, Spain had no right to capture \"Virginius\" and her crew on the open sea.\n\nAt 4:17 a.m., on December 26, while under tow by , \"Virginius\" foundered off Cape Hatteras en route to the United States. Her 91 remaining crewmen, who had been held as prisoners under harsh conditions, were handed over to Captain D.L. Braine of \"Juanita\" and were taken safely to New York City.\n\nOn January 3, 1874, Spanish President Emilio Castelar was voted out of office and replaced by Francisco Serrano. Cushing, who had replaced Sickles as US Consul to Spain, stated that the US had been fortunate that Castelar, a university scholar, had been President of Spain, given that his replacement, Serrano, might have been more apt to go to war over the affair. Cushing's primary duty was to get Spanish reparations for \"Virginius\" family victims and punishment of Burriel for the 53 Santiago executions. Cushing met Serrano in May on June 26, Augusto Ulloa. On July 5, Cushing, now well respected by Spanish authority, wrote to Fish that Spain was ready to make reparations. In October, Cushing was informed that President Castelar had secretly negotiated reparations between Spain and Britain that totalled £7,700, but black British citizen families were given less money. On November 7, Grant and Fish demanded $2,500 from Spain for each US citizen shot regardless of race.\n\nOn November 28, 1874 Fish gave instructions to Cushing that all \"Virginius\" crew members not considered British would be considered American.\n\nSpanish Consul Antonio Mantilla, Polo's replacement, agreed with the reparations. Grant's 1875 State of the Union Address announced that reparations were near, quieting anger over the \"Virginius\" affair. Reparations, however, were put on hold, as Spain changed governments on December 28, from a republic back to a monarchy. Alfonso XII became King of Spain on January 11, 1875.\n\nOn January 16, Cushings met with the new Spanish state minister Castro, urged settlement before the US Congress adjourned, and noted that reparations would be a minor matter compared to an all-out war between Spain and the US.\n\nUnder an agreement of February 7, 1875, signed on March 5, the Spanish government paid to the US anindemnity of $80,000 for the execution of the Americans. Burriel's Santiago executions were considered illegal by Spain, and he had been condemned by President Serrano and King Alfonso. The case against Burriel was taken up by the Spanish Tribunal of the Navy in June 1876. However, Burriel died on December 24, 1877 before any trial could take place.\n\nIn addition to the reparation, a private indemnity in St. Louis was given to Captain Fry's financially troubled family, which had been unable to pay rent and had no permanent place to live.\n\nWhen the \"Virginius\" affair first broke out, a Spanish ironclad—the \"Arapiles\"—happened to be anchored in New York Harbor for repairs, leading to the uncomfortable realization on the part of the US Navy that it had no ship capable of defeating such a vessel. US Secretary of War George M. Robeson believed a US naval resurgence was necessary. Congress hastily issued contracts for the construction of five new ironclads, and accelerated its existing repair program for several more. and the four monitors were subsequently built as a result of the \"Virginius\" war scare. All five vessels would later take part in the Spanish–American War of 1898.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22860555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22860555", "title": "Winfried Freudenberg", "text": "Winfried Freudenberg\n\nWinfried Freudenberg (29 August 1956 – 8 March 1989) was the last person to die in an attempt to escape from East Germany to West Berlin across the Berlin Wall as he fell from an improvised gas balloon at high altitude over West Berlin.\n\nFreudenberg was born in Osterwieck, and grew up in the Saxony-Anhalt town of Lüttgenrode, near what was then the border between his native East Germany, which was then a part of the communist Eastern Bloc, as a satellite state of the Soviet Union, and West Germany. After completing an apprenticeship as electrician, he obtained his secondary education diploma in night school, then trained in information technology, receiving a diploma as electronics engineer. In the autumn of 1988 he married his wife Sabine, a chemist he had met while both were students at Ilmenau University. East Germany cutting them off from the professional opportunities that existed in the West, the couple, especially Winfried, had become increasingly disappointed about being unable to cross the border. Immediately after the wedding the two began planning their escape to the west by a homemade balloon filled with natural gas (because its main component, methane, is lighter than air, natural gas can serve as a lifting gas).\n\nAs part of their plan, Freudenberg took a job in a public utility also supplying natural gas, and the two took an apartment in the East Berlin neighborhood of Prenzlauer Berg. In January and February 1989, they began assembling a 13 metre tall by 11 metre diameter balloon envelope out of polythene, which they cut into strips, taped together, and engirded with a string net. There was no basket, only a narrow wooden beam. On the evening of 7 March they decided that the wind conditions were favourable for their escape. They drove to a pressure regulating station in Blankenburg neighborhood to which Freudenberg had the keys and at midnight began to fill their balloon with gas. From some time after 1:00 am the balloon was visible from a distance. A waiter on his way home from work which had ended at 1:30 am noticed the balloon, and called the \"Volkspolizei\". When the couple heard a patrol car arriving shortly after 2:00 am the balloon was not yet completely filled. Because they feared it would not lift both of them they quickly decided for Freudenberg to escape alone, his wife always having been doubtful. He occupied the beam and cut the tethers. With only one person aboard the balloon had a very high buoyancy and rose fast. Ballast bags hanging down on lines severed a power line shortly after launching and caused it to short-cut and spark. Although East German security had often shot and killed citizens attempting to escape, they decided against shooting because of the possibility of triggering an explosion of the natural gas now leaking. Also, they believed Freudenberg to have been killed by the current which was not the case. Freudenberg's 23 year old wife was able to get back home, where the Stasi were already waiting for her.\n\nHowever, with the balloon having too much buoyancy, it rose much faster, and, because there was no properly working valve in the improvised balloon, much higher than planned. Freudenberg couldn't sink and spent more than five hours aloft. At first the course was west-south-west. With wind velocities of about 20 km/h at the time he must have reached West Berlin after about 20 minutes. Later Freudenberg passed over the Berlin Tegel Airport where he lost or dropped some ballast. His altitude must at this point have increased to more than 2,000 meters (6,500 feet), as his course now changed to south due to different direction of higher altitude winds. The balloon was sighted over Teufelsberg hill at dawn and held for a weather balloon. Shortly before flying into East German territory again, at 7:30 Freudenberg fell into the garden of a villa in the suburb of Zehlendorf. The remains of the balloon came down about one kilometer away on the median strip of a thoroughfare. Freudenberg's body was discovered only hours later. He evidently died instantly from injuries sustained in the crash. Nearly every bone in his body had been broken and virtually every internal organ had been damaged. The direct cause of the crash is not clear. West Berlin police supposed that Freudenberg climbed the net to cut the envelope in which he obviously succeeded, and in the ensuing events lost his hold.\n\nAfter the incident, East German police investigated the friends, family, acquaintances, and colleagues of Freudenberg and his wife, to determine whether any had participated in the escape attempt. Because of international attention and pressure over the recent shooting over Chris Gueffroy, the last refugee to be shot by East German border guards, Sabine Freudenberg was given the relatively lenient sentence of three years of probation, and then granted amnesty in October 1989. The next month East Germany began allowing its citizens to travel to the west, and several months later the Berlin Wall was dismantled and the two countries reunified.\n"}
