{"id": "358934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=358934", "title": "Alex Jones", "text": "Alex Jones\n\nAlexander Emric (or Emerick) Jones (born February 11, 1974) is an American radio show host and conspiracy theorist. He hosts \"The Alex Jones Show\" from Austin, Texas, which airs on the Genesis Communications Network across the United States and online. Jones runs a website, \"Infowars.com\", devoted to conspiracy theories and fake news, and the websites \"NewsWars\" and \"PrisonPlanet\".\n\nJones has been the center of many controversies, including his promotion of Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting conspiracy theories, and his aggressive opposition to gun control in a debate with Piers Morgan. He has accused the U.S. government of planning the Oklahoma City bombing, the September 11 attacks, and has claimed that the moon landing footage was fake. He has claimed that several governments and big businesses have colluded to create a \"New World Order\" through \"manufactured economic crises, sophisticated surveillance tech and—above all—inside-job terror attacks that fuel exploitable hysteria\".\n\nJones has described himself as a conservative, paleoconservative and libertarian, terms he uses interchangeably. Others describe him as conservative, right-wing, alt-right, and far-right. \"New York\" described Jones as \"America's leading conspiracy theorist\", and the Southern Poverty Law Center describes him as \"the most prolific conspiracy theorist in contemporary America\". Asked about such labels, Jones said he is \"proud to be listed as a thought criminal against Big Brother\".\n\nJones was born in 1974 in Dallas, Texas, and grew up in the Dallas suburb of Rockwall and the city of Austin, Texas. His father is a dentist and his mother a homemaker. In his video podcasts, he reports he is of Irish, German, Welsh, mostly English, and partially Native American descent. He was a lineman on his high school's football team and graduated from Anderson High School in Austin in 1993. As a teenager, he read conservative journalist and conspiracy theorist Gary Allen's anti-Semitic book \"None Dare Call It Conspiracy\", which had a profound influence on him and which he calls \"the easiest-to-read primer on The New World Order\". After high school, Jones briefly attended Austin Community College but dropped out.\n\nJones began his career in Austin with a live, call-in format public-access cable television program. In 1996, Jones switched format to radio, hosting a show named \"The Final Edition\" on KJFK (98.9 FM). Ron Paul was running for Congress and was a guest on his show several times. When the Oklahoma City bombing happened in 1995 Jones began accusing the government of being responsible, saying, \"I understood there's a kleptocracy working with psychopathic governments—clutches of evil that know the tricks of control\". In 1998, he released his first film, \"America Destroyed By Design\".\n\nIn 1998, Jones organized a successful effort to build a new Branch Davidian church, as a memorial to those who died during the 1993 fire that ended the government's siege of the original Branch Davidian complex near Waco, Texas. He often featured the project on his public-access television program and claimed that David Koresh and his followers were peaceful people who were murdered by Attorney General Janet Reno and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms during the siege. In the same year, he was removed from a George W. Bush rally at Bayport Industrial District, Texas. Jones interrupted governor Bush's speech, demanding that the Federal Reserve and Council on Foreign Relations be abolished. Journalist David Weigel, reporting on the incident, said Jones \"seemed to launch into public events as if flung from another universe.\"\n\nIn 1999, Jones tied with Shannon Burke for that year's \"Best Austin Talk Radio Host\" poll, as voted by \"The Austin Chronicle\" readers. Later that year, he was fired from KJFK-FM for refusing to broaden his topics. His views were making the show hard to sell to advertisers, according to the station's operations manager. Jones stated: It was purely political, and it came down from on high ... I was told 11 weeks ago to lay off [Bill] Clinton, to lay off all these politicians, to not talk about rebuilding the church, to stop bashing the Marines, A to Z. He began broadcasting his show by Internet connection from his home. In early 2000, Jones was one of seven Republican candidates for state representative in Texas House District 48, an open swing district based in Austin, Texas. Jones stated that he was running \"to be a watchdog on the inside\" but withdrew from the race after a couple of weeks. In July, a group of Austin Community Access Center (ACAC) programmers claimed that Jones used legal proceedings and ACAC policy to intimidate them or get their shows thrown off the air. On July 15, 2000, Jones infiltrated the \"Cremation of Care\", which he called \"a ritualistic shedding of conscience and empathy\" and an \"abuse of power\".\n\nIn 2001, his show was syndicated on approximately 100 stations. After the 9/11 attack, Jones began to speak of a conspiracy by the Bush administration as being behind the attack, which caused a number of the stations that had previously carried him to drop his program, according to Will Bunch.\nOn June 8, 2006, while on his way to cover a meeting of the Bilderberg Group in Ottawa, Jones was stopped and detained at the Ottawa airport by Canadian authorities who confiscated his passport, camera equipment, and most of his belongings. He was later allowed to enter Canada lawfully. Jones said about the reason for his immigration hold, \"I want to say, on the record, it takes two to tango. I could have handled it better.\"\n\nOn September 8, 2007, he was arrested while protesting at 6th Avenue and 48th Street in New York City. He was charged with operating a megaphone without a permit. Two others were also cited for disorderly conduct when his group crashed a live television show featuring Geraldo Rivera. In an article, one of Jones' fellow protesters said, \"It was ... guerrilla information warfare.\"\n\nOn June 6, 2013, Jones addressed international media for the annual Bilderberg conference in Watford, England. He gave an hour-long speech to around 2,000 protesters in the grounds of The Grove hotel, where he was \"rapturously welcomed\", \"surrounded by cameras and peppered with questions\".\n\nOn July 21, 2016, following the 2016 Republican National Convention, Jones and Roger Stone began plotting the removal of Ted Cruz from his Senate seat after he failed to endorse Donald Trump as the Republican presidential candidate, with potential challengers Katrina Pierson and Dan Patrick mooted as replacements in the upcoming Texas election for Senate in 2018.\n\nOn July 6, 2017, alongside Paul Joseph Watson, Jones began hosting a contest to create the best \"CNN Meme\", in which the winner would receive $20,000. The contest was created in response to CNN releasing an article regarding a Reddit user who had created a pro-Trump, anti-CNN meme.\n\nOn January 23, 2018, it was announced that Jones would be working with author Neil Strauss on his upcoming book, titled \"The Secret History of the Modern World & the War for the Future\".\n\nIn February 2018, Jones was accused by two former employees of antisemitism, anti-black racism and sexual harassment of males and females. Jones denied the allegations.\n\n\"The Alex Jones Show\" is broadcast nationally by the Genesis Communications Network to more than 90 AM and FM radio stations in the United States, including WWCR, a shortwave radio station. The Sunday show also airs on KLBJ. In 2010, the show attracted around 2 million listeners each week.\n\nAccording to journalist Will Bunch, a senior fellow at Media Matters for America, the show has a demographic heavier in younger viewers than other conservative pundits due to Jones's \"highly conspiratorial tone and Web-oriented approach\". Bunch has also stated that Jones \"feed[s] on the deepest paranoia\". According to Alexander Zaitchik of \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, in 2011 he had a larger on-line audience than Glenn Beck and Rush Limbaugh combined.\n\nJones is the publisher and director of the Infowars.com website. The \"Infowars\" website receives approximately 10 million monthly visits, making its reach more extensive than mainstream news websites such as \"The Economist\" and \"Newsweek\".\nIn August 2017, Jones announced the launch of NewsWars.com, a site Jones said was intended to battle news that he considers to be fake news.\n\nJones also operates the PrisonPlanet.com website.\n\nA 2017 piece for German magazine \"Der Spiegel\" by Veit Medick indicated that two-thirds of Jones' funds derive from sales of a successful range of his own products. These products are marketed through the \"Infowars\" website and through advertising spots on Jones' show. They include dietary supplements, toothpaste, bulletproof vests and \"brain pills,\" which hold \"an appeal for anyone who believes Armageddon is near\", according to Medick.\n\nIn August 2017, Californian medical company Labdoor, Inc reported on tests applied to six of Jones' dietary supplement products. These included a product named Survival Shield, which was found by Labdoor to contain only iodine, and a product named Oxy-Powder, which comprised a compound of magnesium oxide and citric acid; common ingredients in dietary supplements. Labdoor indicated no evidence of prohibited or harmful substances, but cast doubt on Infowars' marketing claims for these products, and asserted that the quantity of the ingredients in certain products would be \"too low to be appropriately effective\".\n\nOn a segment of \"Last Week Tonight\", host John Oliver stated that Jones spends \"nearly a quarter\" of his on-air time promoting products sold on his website, many of which are purported solutions to medical and economic problems claimed to be caused by the conspiracy theories described on his show.\n\nMainstream sources have described Jones as a conservative, far-right, alt-right, and a conspiracy theorist. Jones has described himself as a libertarian and a paleoconservative. He indicated his support for Donald Trump during the Presidential campaign in 2016 also denouncing Trump's rival Hillary Clinton (\"Hillary for prison!\") and Barack Obama.\n\nJones is a vocal gun rights advocate. MTV have labeled him a \"staunch Second Amendment supporter\", while the London \"Daily Telegraph\" called him a \"gun-nut\". He has been widely quoted in international media for claiming, in a debate with Piers Morgan, that \"1776 will commence again if you try to take our firearms\". Jones was referencing the American Revolutionary War in relation to theoretical gun control measures taken by the government. He has been reported to own around 50 firearms.\n\nJones is well-known and widely reported in media for both his opposition to vaccines, and his views on vaccine controversies. On June 16, 2017, \"Vox\" covered his claim that the introduction of the \"Sesame Street\" character Julia, an autistic Muppet, was \"designed to normalize autism, a disorder caused by vaccines.\" On November 20, 2017, \"The New Yorker\" quoted Jones as claiming \"Infowars\" was \"defending people's right to not be forcibly infected with vaccines\". \"ThinkProgress\" have declared that he \"continues to endanger children by convincing their parents that vaccines are dangerous.\" Jones has specifically disputed the safety and effectiveness of MMR vaccines.\n\n\"Mother Jones\" has claimed that Jones is a believer in weather weapons, and \"Salon\" has covered his claim \"that the president has access to weather weapons capable of not only creating tornadoes but also moving them around, on demand\". His belief in weather warfare has been reported by mainstream media. He has claimed that Hurricane Irma may have been geo-engineered.\n\nJones has promoted the white genocide conspiracy theory. \"Media Matters\" covered his claim that NFL players protesting during the national anthem were \"kneeling to white genocide\" and violence against whites, which the SPLC featured in their headlines review. On October 2, 2017, Jones claimed that Democrats and communists were plotting imminent \"white genocide\" attacks. His reporting and public views on the topic have received support and coverage from white nationalist publications and groups, such as AltRight.com and the New Zealand National Front.\n\nJones has been the center of many controversies. He has accused the United States government of being involved in the Oklahoma City bombing and the September 11 attacks, as well as claiming that two school shootings were \"false flag\" operations. In 2009, Jones claimed that a convicted con man's scheme to take over a long-vacant, would-be for-profit prison in Hardin, Montana was part of a FEMA plot to detain U.S. citizens in concentration camps. Jones was in a \"media crossfire\" in 2011, which included criticism by Rush Limbaugh, when the news spread that Jared Lee Loughner, the perpetrator of the 2011 Tucson shooting, had been \"a fan\" of the 9/11 conspiracy film \"Loose Change\" of which Jones had been an executive producer.\n\nHis website \"Infowars.com\" has been described as a fake news website and has been accused of spreading conspiracy theories.\n\nJones has been criticized for propagating conspiracy theories about the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in 2012 and the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting in 2018 being false flag operations engineered by gun control advocates. In particular, he has stated that \"no one died\" in Sandy Hook and that Stoneman Douglas survivor David Hogg was a crisis actor. Claims made in support of these theories have been proven false.\n\nIn March 2018, six families of victims of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting as well as an FBI agent who responded to the attack filed a defamation lawsuit against Jones for his role in spreading conspiracy theories about the shooting.\n\nIn January 2013, Jones was invited to speak on Piers Morgan's show after promoting an online petition to deport Morgan because of his support of gun control laws. The interview turned into \"a one-person shoutfest, as Jones riffed about guns, oppressive government, the flag, his ancestors' role in Texan independence, and what flag Morgan would have on his tights if they wrestled.\" The event drew widespread coverage, and according to \"The Huffington Post\", Morgan and others such as Glenn Beck \"agreed that Jones was a terrible spokesman for gun rights\". Jones's appearance on the show was a top trending Twitter topic the following morning.\n\nOn June 9, 2013, Jones appeared as a guest on the BBC's television show \"Sunday Politics\", during a discussion about conspiracy theories surrounding the Bilderberg Group meetings with presenter Andrew Neil and journalist David Aaronovitch. A critic of such theories, Aaronovitch implied that, since Jones had not been killed for exposing conspiracies, they either do not exist or that Jones is a part of them himself. Jones began shouting and interrupting, and Andrew Neil ended the interview, describing Jones as \"an idiot\" and \"the worst person I've ever interviewed\". According to Neil on Twitter, Jones was still shouting until he knew that he was off-air.\n\nIn December 2015, Jones initially \"formed a bond\" with Donald Trump, after the presidential candidate appeared on \"The Alex Jones Show\", with Trump stating \"Your reputation is amazing. I will not let you down.\" During the 2016 presidential campaign, Hillary Clinton criticized Trump for his ties to Jones. Jones said that Trump called him on the day after the election to thank him for his help in the campaign. Since Trump took office, it has been claimed Jones communicates with the President through aides, something which Chief of Staff John Kelly had reportedly tried to block. In June 2017, journalist and commentator Bill Moyers wrote that Trump and Jones explicitly \"operate as a tag team\". In April 2018, Jones publicly criticized President Trump during a livestream, after Trump announced a military strike against Syria. During the stream, Jones also stated that Trump had not called him during the prior six months.\n\nIn February 2017, the lawyers of James Alefantis, owner of Comet Ping Pong pizzeria, sent Jones a letter demanding an apology and retraction for his role in pushing the Pizzagate conspiracy theory. Under Texas law, Jones was given a month to comply or be subject to a libel suit. In March 2017, Alex Jones apologized to Alefantis for promulgating the conspiracy theory and retracted his allegations.\n\nIn April 2017, the Chobani yogurt company filed a lawsuit against Jones for his article that claims that the company's factory in Idaho, which employs refugees, was connected to a 2016 child sexual assault and a rise in tuberculosis cases. As a result of the lawsuit, Jones issued an apology and retraction of his allegations in May 2017.\n\nIn March 2018, Brennan Gilmore, who shared a video he captured of a car hitting anti-racism protesters at the 2017 Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, filed a lawsuit against Jones and six others. According to the lawsuit, Jones said that Gilmore was acting as part of a false flag operation conducted by disgruntled government \"deep state\" employees in furtherance of a coup against President Trump. Gilmore alleges he has been receiving death threats from Jones' audience.\n\nIn April 2017, Jones was criticized for claiming that the Khan Shaykhun chemical attack was a hoax and a \"false flag\". Jones stated that the attack was potentially carried out by civil defense group White Helmets, which he claims are an Al-Qaeda-affiliated terrorist front financed by George Soros.\n\nOn July 24, 2018, YouTube removed four of InfoWars' videos citing \"long-standing policies against child endangerment and hate speech\", and issued a \"strike\" against the Infowars channel. YouTube also suspended the channel's ability to live stream. On July 27, 2018, Facebook suspended Jones's profile for 30 days, and also removed the same videos, saying they violated Facebook's standards against hate speech and bullying. On August 3, 2018, Stitcher Radio removed all of his podcasts stating that he was involved in harassment or encouraged it.\n\nOn August 6, 2018, Facebook, Apple, YouTube and Spotify removed all content by Alex Jones and Infowars from their platforms for violating their policies. YouTube removed various channels associated with Infowars, including The Alex Jones Channel, which had amassed 2.4 million subscriptions prior to its removal. On Facebook, four pages that were associated with InfoWars and Alex Jones were removed due to repeated violations of the website's policies. Apple removed all podcasts associated with Jones from its iTunes platform and its podcast app. On August 13, 2018, Vimeo removed all of Jones' videos because they \"violated our terms of service prohibitions on discriminatory and hateful content\". Facebook mentioned that dehumanizing language about immigrants, Muslims and transgender people, as well as violence glorification, were among the hate speech policy violations.\n\nJones' accounts have also been removed from Pinterest, MailChimp and LinkedIn. As of early August 2018, Jones still had active accounts on Instagram, Google+ and Twitter. Jones tweeted a Periscope video calling on others \"to get their battle rifles ready against antifa, the mainstream media, and Chicom operatives\". In the video he also says, \"Now is time to act on the enemy before they do a false flag.\" Twitter cited this as the reason to suspend his account for a week on August 14. On September 6, 2018, Jones was permanently banned from Twitter and Periscope after confronting and berating CNN reporter Oliver Darcy. On September 7, 2018, the Infowars app was removed from the Apple App Store for \"objectionable content\". He was banned from using PayPal for his business transactions, with PayPal citing \"instances that promoted hate or discriminatory intolerance against certain communities and religions, which run counter to our core value of inclusion,\" in their announcement.\n\nJones has three children with ex-wife Kelly Jones. The couple divorced in March 2015. In 2017, Kelly sought sole or joint custody of their children due to her ex-husband's behavior. She claimed \"he's not a stable person\" and \"I'm concerned that he is engaged in felonious behavior, threatening a member of Congress\" (Adam Schiff). His attorney responded by claiming that \"he's playing a character\" and describing him as a \"performance artist\". In court, Jones denied playing a character and he called his show \"the most bona fide, hard-core, real McCoy thing there is, and everybody knows it\". Kelly was awarded the right to decide where their children live while he maintains visitation rights.\n\nHis son, Rex Jones, has worked for \"Infowars\", receiving media attention for a video which was critical of gun control and BuzzFeed News. Jones has credited Rex for convincing him to support Donald Trump as a presidential candidate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30823252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30823252", "title": "Algebraic interior", "text": "Algebraic interior\n\nIn functional analysis, a branch of mathematics, the algebraic interior or radial kernel of a subset of a vector space is a refinement of the concept of the interior. It is the subset of points contained in a given set with respect to which it is absorbing, i.e. the radial points of the set. The elements of the algebraic interior are often referred to as internal points.\n\nFormally, if formula_1 is a linear space then the algebraic interior of formula_2 is\n\nNote that in general formula_4, but if formula_5 is a convex set then formula_6. If formula_5 is a convex set then if formula_8 then formula_9.\n\nIf formula_10 then formula_11, but formula_12 and formula_13.\n\nLet formula_14 then:\n\nLet formula_1 be a topological vector space, formula_21 denote the interior operator, and formula_22 then: \n\n"}
{"id": "752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=752", "title": "Art", "text": "Art\n\nArt is a diverse range of human activities in creating visual, auditory or performing artifacts (artworks), expressing the author's imaginative, conceptual idea, or technical skill, intended to be appreciated for their beauty or emotional power. In their most general form these activities include the production of works of art, the criticism of art, the study of the history of art, and the aesthetic dissemination of art. \n\nThe three classical branches of art are painting, sculpture and architecture. Music, theatre, film, dance, and other performing arts, as well as literature and other media such as interactive media, are included in a broader definition of the arts. Until the 17th century, \"art\" referred to any skill or mastery and was not differentiated from crafts or sciences. In modern usage after the 17th century, where aesthetic considerations are paramount, the fine arts are separated and distinguished from acquired skills in general, such as the decorative or applied arts.\n\nThough the definition of what constitutes art is disputed and has changed over time, general descriptions mention an idea of imaginative or technical skill stemming from human agency and creation. The nature of art and related concepts, such as creativity and interpretation, are explored in a branch of philosophy known as aesthetics.\n\nIn the perspective of the history of art, artistic works have existed for almost as long as humankind: from early pre-historic art to contemporary art; however, some theories restrict the concept of \"artistic works\" to modern Western societies. One early sense of the definition of \"art\" is closely related to the older Latin meaning, which roughly translates to \"skill\" or \"craft,\" as associated with words such as \"artisan.\" English words derived from this meaning include \"artifact\", \"artificial\", \"artifice\", \"medical arts\", and \"military arts\". However, there are many other colloquial uses of the word, all with some relation to its etymology.\nOver time, philosophers like Plato, Aristotle, Socrates and Kant, among others, questioned the meaning of art. Several dialogues in Plato tackle questions about art: Socrates says that poetry is inspired by the muses, and is not rational. He speaks approvingly of this, and other forms of divine madness (drunkenness, eroticism, and dreaming) in the \"Phaedrus \"(265a–c), and yet in the \"\"Republic\"\" wants to outlaw Homer's great poetic art, and laughter as well. In \"Ion\", Socrates gives no hint of the disapproval of Homer that he expresses in the \"Republic\". The dialogue \"Ion\" suggests that Homer's \"Iliad\" functioned in the ancient Greek world as the Bible does today in the modern Christian world: as divinely inspired literary art that can provide moral guidance, if only it can be properly interpreted.\n\nWith regards to the literary art and the musical arts, Aristotle considered epic poetry, tragedy, comedy, dithyrambic poetry and music to be mimetic or imitative art, each varying in imitation by medium, object, and manner. For example, music imitates with the media of rhythm and harmony, whereas dance imitates with rhythm alone, and poetry with language. The forms also differ in their object of imitation. Comedy, for instance, is a dramatic imitation of men worse than average; whereas tragedy imitates men slightly better than average. Lastly, the forms differ in their manner of imitation—through narrative or character, through change or no change, and through drama or no drama. Aristotle believed that imitation is natural to mankind and constitutes one of mankind's advantages over animals.\n\nThe second, and more recent, sense of the word \"art\" as an abbreviation for \"creative art\" or \"fine art\" emerged in the early 17th century. Fine art refers to a skill used to express the artist's creativity, or to engage the audience's aesthetic sensibilities, or to draw the audience towards consideration of more refined or \"finer\" work of art.\n\nWithin this latter sense, the word \"art\" may refer to several things: (i) a study of a creative skill, (ii) a process of using the creative skill, (iii) a product of the creative skill, or (iv) the audience's experience with the creative skill. The creative arts (\"art\" as discipline) are a collection of disciplines which produce \"artworks\" (\"art\" as objects) that are compelled by a personal drive (art as activity) and convey a message, mood, or symbolism for the perceiver to interpret (art as experience). Art is something that stimulates an individual's thoughts, emotions, beliefs, or ideas through the senses. Works of art can be explicitly made for this purpose or interpreted on the basis of images or objects. For some scholars, such as Kant, the sciences and the arts could be distinguished by taking science as representing the domain of knowledge and the arts as representing the domain of the freedom of artistic expression.\n\nOften, if the skill is being used in a common or practical way, people will consider it a craft instead of art. Likewise, if the skill is being used in a commercial or industrial way, it may be considered commercial art instead of fine art. On the other hand, crafts and design are sometimes considered applied art. Some art followers have argued that the difference between fine art and applied art has more to do with value judgments made about the art than any clear definitional difference. However, even fine art often has goals beyond pure creativity and self-expression. The purpose of works of art may be to communicate ideas, such as in politically, spiritually, or philosophically motivated art; to create a sense of beauty (see aesthetics); to explore the nature of perception; for pleasure; or to generate strong emotions. The purpose may also be seemingly nonexistent.\n\nThe nature of art has been described by philosopher Richard Wollheim as \"one of the most elusive of the traditional problems of human culture\". Art has been defined as a vehicle for the expression or communication of emotions and ideas, a means for exploring and appreciating formal elements for their own sake, and as \"mimesis\" or representation. Art as mimesis has deep roots in the philosophy of Aristotle. Leo Tolstoy identified art as a use of indirect means to communicate from one person to another. Benedetto Croce and R.G. Collingwood advanced the idealist view that art expresses emotions, and that the work of art therefore essentially exists in the mind of the creator. The theory of art as form has its roots in the philosophy of Kant, and was developed in the early twentieth century by Roger Fry and Clive Bell. More recently, thinkers influenced by Martin Heidegger have interpreted art as the means by which a community develops for itself a medium for self-expression and interpretation. George Dickie has offered an institutional theory of art that defines a work of art as any artifact upon which a qualified person or persons acting on behalf of the social institution commonly referred to as \"the art world\" has conferred \"the status of candidate for appreciation\". Larry Shiner has described fine art as \"not an essence or a fate but something we have made. Art as we have generally understood it is a European invention barely two hundred years old.\"\n\nArt may be characterized in terms of mimesis (its representation of reality), narrative (storytelling), expression, communication of emotion, or other qualities. During the Romantic period, art came to be seen as \"a special faculty of the human mind to be classified with religion and science\".\n\nThe oldest documented forms of art are visual arts, which include creation of images or objects in fields including today painting, sculpture, printmaking, photography, and other visual media. Sculptures, cave paintings, rock paintings and petroglyphs from the Upper Paleolithic dating to roughly 40,000 years ago have been found, but the precise meaning of such art is often disputed because so little is known about the cultures that produced them. The oldest art objects in the world—a series of tiny, drilled snail shells about 75,000 years old—were discovered in a South African cave. Containers that may have been used to hold paints have been found dating as far back as 100,000 years. Etched shells by \"Homo erectus\" from 430,000 and 540,000 years ago were discovered in 2014.\n\nMany great traditions in art have a foundation in the art of one of the great ancient civilizations: Ancient Egypt, Mesopotamia, Persia, India, China, Ancient Greece, Rome, as well as Inca, Maya, and Olmec. Each of these centers of early civilization developed a unique and characteristic style in its art. Because of the size and duration of these civilizations, more of their art works have survived and more of their influence has been transmitted to other cultures and later times. Some also have provided the first records of how artists worked. For example, this period of Greek art saw a veneration of the human physical form and the development of equivalent skills to show musculature, poise, beauty, and anatomically correct proportions.\n\nIn Byzantine and Medieval art of the Western Middle Ages, much art focused on the expression of subjects about Biblical and religious culture, and used styles that showed the higher glory of a heavenly world, such as the use of gold in the background of paintings, or glass in mosaics or windows, which also presented figures in idealized, patterned (flat) forms. Nevertheless, a classical realist tradition persisted in small Byzantine works, and realism steadily grew in the art of Catholic Europe.\n\nRenaissance art had a greatly increased emphasis on the realistic depiction of the material world, and the place of humans in it, reflected in the corporeality of the human body, and development of a systematic method of graphical perspective to depict recession in a three-dimensional picture space.\n\nIn the east, Islamic art's rejection of iconography led to emphasis on geometric patterns, calligraphy, and architecture. Further east, religion dominated artistic styles and forms too. India and Tibet saw emphasis on painted sculptures and dance, while religious painting borrowed many conventions from sculpture and tended to bright contrasting colors with emphasis on outlines. China saw the flourishing of many art forms: jade carving, bronzework, pottery (including the stunning terracotta army of Emperor Qin), poetry, calligraphy, music, painting, drama, fiction, etc. Chinese styles vary greatly from era to era and each one is traditionally named after the ruling dynasty. So, for example, Tang dynasty paintings are monochromatic and sparse, emphasizing idealized landscapes, but Ming dynasty paintings are busy and colorful, and focus on telling stories via setting and composition. Japan names its styles after imperial dynasties too, and also saw much interplay between the styles of calligraphy and painting. Woodblock printing became important in Japan after the 17th century.\n\nThe western Age of Enlightenment in the 18th century saw artistic depictions of physical and rational certainties of the clockwork universe, as well as politically revolutionary visions of a post-monarchist world, such as Blake's portrayal of Newton as a divine geometer, or David's propagandistic paintings. This led to Romantic rejections of this in favor of pictures of the emotional side and individuality of humans, exemplified in the novels of Goethe. The late 19th century then saw a host of artistic movements, such as academic art, Symbolism, impressionism and fauvism among others.\n\nThe history of twentieth-century art is a narrative of endless possibilities and the search for new standards, each being torn down in succession by the next. Thus the parameters of impressionism, Expressionism, Fauvism, Cubism, Dadaism, Surrealism, etc. cannot be maintained very much beyond the time of their invention. Increasing global interaction during this time saw an equivalent influence of other cultures into Western art. Thus, Japanese woodblock prints (themselves influenced by Western Renaissance draftsmanship) had an immense influence on impressionism and subsequent development. Later, African sculptures were taken up by Picasso and to some extent by Matisse. Similarly, in the 19th and 20th centuries the West has had huge impacts on Eastern art with originally western ideas like Communism and Post-Modernism exerting a powerful influence.\n\nModernism, the idealistic search for truth, gave way in the latter half of the 20th century to a realization of its unattainability. Theodor W. Adorno said in 1970, \"It is now taken for granted that nothing which concerns art can be taken for granted any more: neither art itself, nor art in relationship to the whole, nor even the right of art to exist.\" Relativism was accepted as an unavoidable truth, which led to the period of contemporary art and postmodern criticism, where cultures of the world and of history are seen as changing forms, which can be appreciated and drawn from only with skepticism and irony. Furthermore, the separation of cultures is increasingly blurred and some argue it is now more appropriate to think in terms of a global culture, rather than of regional ones.\n\nIn \"The Origin of the Work of Art\", Martin Heidegger, a German philosopher and a seminal thinker, describes the essence of art in terms of the concepts of being and truth. He argues that art is not only a way of expressing the element of truth in a culture, but the means of creating it and providing a springboard from which \"that which is\" can be revealed. Works of art are not merely representations of the way things are, but actually produce a community's shared understanding. Each time a new artwork is added to any culture, the meaning of what it is to exist is inherently changed.\n\nThe creative arts are often divided into more specific categories, typically along perceptually distinguishable categories such as media, genre, styles, and form. Art form refers to the elements of art that are independent of its interpretation or significance. It covers the methods adopted by the artist and the physical composition of the artwork, primarily non-semantic aspects of the work (i.e., figurae), such as color, contour, dimension, medium, melody, space, texture, and value. Form may also include visual design principles, such as arrangement, balance, contrast, emphasis, harmony, proportion, proximity, and rhythm.\n\nIn general there are three schools of philosophy regarding art, focusing respectively on form, content, and context. Extreme Formalism is the view that all aesthetic properties of art are formal (that is, part of the art form). Philosophers almost universally reject this view and hold that the properties and aesthetics of art extend beyond materials, techniques, and form. Unfortunately, there is little consensus on terminology for these informal properties. Some authors refer to subject matter and content – i.e., denotations and connotations – while others prefer terms like meaning and significance.\n\nExtreme Intentionalism holds that authorial intent plays a decisive role in the meaning of a work of art, conveying the content or essential main idea, while all other interpretations can be discarded. It defines the subject as the persons or idea represented, and the content as the artist's experience of that subject. For example, the composition of Napoleon I on his Imperial Throne is partly borrowed from the Statue of Zeus at Olympia. As evidenced by the title, the subject is Napoleon, and the content is Ingres's representation of Napoleon as \"Emperor-God beyond time and space\". Similarly to extreme formalism, philosophers typically reject extreme intentionalism, because art may have multiple ambiguous meanings and authorial intent may be unknowable and thus irrelevant. Its restrictive interpretation is \"socially unhealthy, philosophically unreal, and politically unwise\".\n\nFinally, the developing theory of post-structuralism studies art's significance in a cultural context, such as the ideas, emotions, and reactions prompted by a work. The cultural context often reduces to the artist's techniques and intentions, in which case analysis proceeds along lines similar to formalism and intentionalism. However, in other cases historical and material conditions may predominate, such as religious and philosophical convictions, sociopolitical and economic structures, or even climate and geography. Art criticism continues to grow and develop alongside art.\n\nArt can connote a sense of trained ability or mastery of a medium. Art can also simply refer to the developed and efficient use of a language to convey meaning with immediacy and or depth. Art can be defined as an act of expressing feelings, thoughts, and observations.\n\nThere is an understanding that is reached with the material as a result of handling it, which facilitates one's thought processes.\nA common view is that the \"art\", particular in its elevated sense, requires a certain level of creative expertise by the artist, whether this be a demonstration of technical ability, an originality in stylistic approach, or a combination of these two. Traditionally skill of execution was viewed as a quality inseparable from art and thus necessary for its success; for Leonardo da Vinci, art, neither more nor less than his other endeavors, was a manifestation of skill. Rembrandt's work, now praised for its ephemeral virtues, was most admired by his contemporaries for its virtuosity. At the turn of the 20th century, the adroit performances of John Singer Sargent were alternately admired and viewed with skepticism for their manual fluency, yet at nearly the same time the artist who would become the era's most recognized and peripatetic iconoclast, Pablo Picasso, was completing a traditional academic training at which he excelled.\nA common contemporary criticism of some modern art occurs along the lines of objecting to the apparent lack of skill or ability required in the production of the artistic object. In conceptual art, Marcel Duchamp's \"Fountain\" is among the first examples of pieces wherein the artist used found objects (\"ready-made\") and exercised no traditionally recognised set of skills. Tracey Emin's \"My Bed\", or Damien Hirst's \"The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living\" follow this example and also manipulate the mass media. Emin slept (and engaged in other activities) in her bed before placing the result in a gallery as work of art. Hirst came up with the conceptual design for the artwork but has left most of the eventual creation of many works to employed artisans. Hirst's celebrity is founded entirely on his ability to produce shocking concepts. The actual production in many conceptual and contemporary works of art is a matter of assembly of found objects. However, there are many modernist and contemporary artists who continue to excel in the skills of drawing and painting and in creating \"hands-on\" works of art.\n\nArt has had a great number of different functions throughout its history, making its purpose difficult to abstract or quantify to any single concept. This does not imply that the purpose of Art is \"vague\", but that it has had many unique, different reasons for being created. Some of these functions of Art are provided in the following outline. The different purposes of art may be grouped according to those that are non-motivated, and those that are motivated (Lévi-Strauss).\n\nThe non-motivated purposes of art are those that are integral to being human, transcend the individual, or do not fulfill a specific external purpose. In this sense, Art, as creativity, is something humans must do by their very nature (i.e., no other species creates art), and is therefore beyond utility.\nMotivated purposes of art refer to intentional, conscious actions on the part of the artists or creator. These may be to bring about political change, to comment on an aspect of society, to convey a specific emotion or mood, to address personal psychology, to illustrate another discipline, to (with commercial arts) sell a product, or simply as a form of communication.\n\nThe functions of art described above are not mutually exclusive, as many of them may overlap. For example, art for the purpose of entertainment may also seek to sell a product, i.e. the movie or video game.\n\nSince ancient times, much of the finest art has represented a deliberate display of wealth or power, often achieved by using massive scale and expensive materials. Much art has been commissioned by political rulers or religious establishments, with more modest versions only available to the most wealthy in society.\n\nNevertheless, there have been many periods where art of very high quality was available, in terms of ownership, across large parts of society, above all in cheap media such as pottery, which persists in the ground, and perishable media such as textiles and wood. In many different cultures, the ceramics of indigenous peoples of the Americas are found in such a wide range of graves that they were clearly not restricted to a social elite, though other forms of art may have been. Reproductive methods such as moulds made mass-production easier, and were used to bring high-quality Ancient Roman pottery and Greek Tanagra figurines to a very wide market. Cylinder seals were both artistic and practical, and very widely used by what can be loosely called the middle class in the Ancient Near East. Once coins were widely used, these also became an art form that reached the widest range of society.\n\nAnother important innovation came in the 15th century in Europe, when printmaking began with small woodcuts, mostly religious, that were often very small and hand-colored, and affordable even by peasants who glued them to the walls of their homes. Printed books were initially very expensive, but fell steadily in price until by the 19th century even the poorest could afford some with printed illustrations. Popular prints of many different sorts have decorated homes and other places for centuries.\n\nPublic buildings and monuments, secular and religious, by their nature normally address the whole of society, and visitors as viewers, and display to the general public has long been an important factor in their design. Egyptian temples are typical in that the most largest and most lavish decoration was placed on the parts that could be seen by the general public, rather than the areas seen only by the priests. Many areas of royal palaces, castles and the houses of the social elite were often generally accessible, and large parts of the art collections of such people could often be seen, either by anybody, or by those able to pay a small price, or those wearing the correct clothes, regardless of who they were, as at the Palace of Versailles, where the appropriate extra accessories (silver shoe buckles and a sword) could be hired from shops outside.\n\nSpecial arrangements were made to allow the public to see many royal or private collections placed in galleries, as with the Orleans Collection mostly housed in a wing of the Palais Royal in Paris, which could be visited for most of the 18th century. In Italy the art tourism of the Grand Tour became a major industry from the Renaissance onwards, and governments and cities made efforts to make their key works accessible. The British Royal Collection remains distinct, but large donations such as the Old Royal Library were made from it to the British Museum, established in 1753. The Uffizi in Florence opened entirely as a gallery in 1765, though this function had been gradually taking the building over from the original civil servants' offices for a long time before. The building now occupied by the Prado in Madrid was built before the French Revolution for the public display of parts of the royal art collection, and similar royal galleries open to the public existed in Vienna, Munich and other capitals. The opening of the Musée du Louvre during the French Revolution (in 1793) as a public museum for much of the former French royal collection certainly marked an important stage in the development of public access to art, transferring ownership to a republican state, but was a continuation of trends already well established.\n\nMost modern public museums and art education programs for children in schools can be traced back to this impulse to have art available to everyone. Museums in the United States tend to be gifts from the very rich to the masses. (The Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, for example, was created by John Taylor Johnston, a railroad executive whose personal art collection seeded the museum.) But despite all this, at least one of the important functions of art in the 21st century remains as a marker of wealth and social status.\n\nThere have been attempts by artists to create art that can not be bought by the wealthy as a status object. One of the prime original motivators of much of the art of the late 1960s and 1970s was to create art that could not be bought and sold. It is \"necessary to present something more than mere objects\" said the major post war German artist Joseph Beuys. This time period saw the rise of such things as performance art, video art, and conceptual art. The idea was that if the artwork was a performance that would leave nothing behind, or was simply an idea, it could not be bought and sold. \"Democratic precepts revolving around the idea that a work of art is a commodity impelled the aesthetic innovation which germinated in the mid-1960s and was reaped throughout the 1970s. Artists broadly identified under the heading of Conceptual art ... substituting performance and publishing activities for engagement with both the material and materialistic concerns of painted or sculptural form ... [have] endeavored to undermine the art object qua object.\"\n\nIn the decades since, these ideas have been somewhat lost as the art market has learned to sell limited edition DVDs of video works, invitations to exclusive performance art pieces, and the objects left over from conceptual pieces. Many of these performances create works that are only understood by the elite who have been educated as to why an idea or video or piece of apparent garbage may be considered art. The marker of status becomes understanding the work instead of necessarily owning it, and the artwork remains an upper-class activity. \"With the widespread use of DVD recording technology in the early 2000s, artists, and the gallery system that derives its profits from the sale of artworks, gained an important means of controlling the sale of video and computer artworks in limited editions to collectors.\"\n\nArt has long been controversial, that is to say disliked by some viewers, for a wide variety of reasons, though most pre-modern controversies are dimly recorded, or completely lost to a modern view. Iconoclasm is the destruction of art that is disliked for a variety of reasons, including religious ones. Aniconism is a general dislike of either all figurative images, or often just religious ones, and has been a thread in many major religions. It has been a crucial factor in the history of Islamic art, where depictions of Muhammad remain especially controversial. Much art has been disliked purely because it depicted or otherwise stood for unpopular rulers, parties or other groups. Artistic conventions have often been conservative and taken very seriously by art critics, though often much less so by a wider public. The iconographic content of art could cause controversy, as with late medieval depictions of the new motif of the Swoon of the Virgin in scenes of the Crucifixion of Jesus. The \"Last Judgment\" by Michelangelo was controversial for various reasons, including breaches of decorum through nudity and the Apollo-like pose of Christ.\n\nThe content of much formal art through history was dictated by the patron or commissioner rather than just the artist, but with the advent of Romanticism, and economic changes in the production of art, the artists' vision became the usual determinant of the content of his art, increasing the incidence of controversies, though often reducing their significance. Strong incentives for perceived originality and publicity also encouraged artists to court controversy. Théodore Géricault's \"Raft of the Medusa\" (c. 1820), was in part a political commentary on a recent event. Édouard Manet's \"Le Déjeuner sur l'Herbe\" (1863), was considered scandalous not because of the nude woman, but because she is seated next to men fully dressed in the clothing of the time, rather than in robes of the antique world. John Singer Sargent's \"Madame Pierre Gautreau (Madam X)\" (1884), caused a controversy over the reddish pink used to color the woman's ear lobe, considered far too suggestive and supposedly ruining the high-society model's reputation.\nThe gradual abandonment of naturalism and the depiction of realistic representations of the visual appearance of subjects in the 19th and 20th centuries led to a rolling controversy lasting for over a century. In the twentieth century, Pablo Picasso's \"Guernica\" (1937) used arresting cubist techniques and stark monochromatic oils, to depict the harrowing consequences of a contemporary bombing of a small, ancient Basque town. Leon Golub's \"Interrogation III\" (1981), depicts a female nude, hooded detainee strapped to a chair, her legs open to reveal her sexual organs, surrounded by two tormentors dressed in everyday clothing. Andres Serrano's \"Piss Christ\" (1989) is a photograph of a crucifix, sacred to the Christian religion and representing Christ's sacrifice and final suffering, submerged in a glass of the artist's own urine. The resulting uproar led to comments in the United States Senate about public funding of the arts.\n\nBefore Modernism, aesthetics in Western art was greatly concerned with achieving the appropriate balance between different aspects of realism or truth to nature and the ideal; ideas as to what the appropriate balance is have shifted to and fro over the centuries. This concern is largely absent in other traditions of art. The aesthetic theorist John Ruskin, who championed what he saw as the naturalism of J. M. W. Turner, saw art's role as the communication by artifice of an essential truth that could only be found in nature.\n\nThe definition and evaluation of art has become especially problematic since the 20th century. Richard Wollheim distinguishes three approaches to assessing the aesthetic value of art: the Realist, whereby aesthetic quality is an absolute value independent of any human view; the Objectivist, whereby it is also an absolute value, but is dependent on general human experience; and the Relativist position, whereby it is not an absolute value, but depends on, and varies with, the human experience of different humans.\n\nThe arrival of Modernism in the late nineteenth century lead to a radical break in the conception of the function of art, and then again in the late twentieth century with the advent of postmodernism. Clement Greenberg's 1960 article \"Modernist Painting\" defines modern art as \"the use of characteristic methods of a discipline to criticize the discipline itself\". Greenberg originally applied this idea to the Abstract Expressionist movement and used it as a way to understand and justify flat (non-illusionistic) abstract painting:\n\nPop artists like Andy Warhol became both noteworthy and influential through work including and possibly critiquing popular culture, as well as the art world. Artists of the 1980s, 1990s, and 2000s expanded this technique of self-criticism beyond \"high art\" to all cultural image-making, including fashion images, comics, billboards and pornography.\n\nDuchamp once proposed that art is any activity of any kind- everything. However, the way that only certain activities are classified today as art is a social construction. There is evidence that there may be an element of truth to this. \"\" is an art history book which examines the construction of the modern system of the arts i.e. Fine Art. Shiner finds evidence that the older system of the arts before our modern system (fine art) held art to be any skilled human activity i.e. Ancient Greek society did not possess the term art but techne. Techne can be understood neither as art or craft, the reason being that the distinctions of art and craft are historical products that came later on in human history. Techne included painting, sculpting and music but also; cooking, medicine, horsemanship, geometry, carpentry, prophecy, and farming etc.\n\nFollowing Duchamp during the first half of the twentieth century, a significant shift to general aesthetic theory took place which attempted to apply aesthetic theory between various forms of art, including the literary arts and the visual arts, to each other. This resulted in the rise of the New Criticism school and debate concerning \"the intentional fallacy\". At issue was the question of whether the aesthetic intentions of the artist in creating the work of art, whatever its specific form, should be associated with the criticism and evaluation of the final product of the work of art, or, if the work of art should be evaluated on its own merits independent of the intentions of the artist.\n\nIn 1946, William K. Wimsatt and Monroe Beardsley published a classic and controversial New Critical essay entitled \"The Intentional Fallacy\", in which they argued strongly against the relevance of an author's intention, or \"intended meaning\" in the analysis of a literary work. For Wimsatt and Beardsley, the words on the page were all that mattered; importation of meanings from outside the text was considered irrelevant, and potentially distracting.\n\nIn another essay, \"The Affective Fallacy,\" which served as a kind of sister essay to \"The Intentional Fallacy\" Wimsatt and Beardsley also discounted the reader's personal/emotional reaction to a literary work as a valid means of analyzing a text. This fallacy would later be repudiated by theorists from the reader-response school of literary theory. Ironically, one of the leading theorists from this school, Stanley Fish, was himself trained by New Critics. Fish criticizes Wimsatt and Beardsley in his essay \"Literature in the Reader\" (1970).\n\nAs summarized by Gaut and Livingston in their essay \"The Creation of Art\": \"Structuralist and post-structuralists theorists and critics were sharply critical of many aspects of New Criticism, beginning with the emphasis on aesthetic appreciation and the so-called autonomy of art, but they reiterated the attack on biographical criticisms's assumption that the artist's activities and experience were a privileged critical topic.\" These authors contend that: \"Anti-intentionalists, such as formalists, hold that the intentions involved in the making of art are irrelevant or peripheral to correctly interpreting art. So details of the act of creating a work, though possibly of interest in themselves, have no bearing on the correct interpretation of the work.\"\n\nGaut and Livingston define the intentionalists as distinct from formalists stating that: \"Intentionalists, unlike formalists, hold that reference to intentions is essential in fixing the correct interpretation of works.\" They quote Richard Wollheim as stating that, \"The task of criticism is the reconstruction of the creative process, where the creative process must in turn be thought of as something not stopping short of, but terminating on, the work of art itself.\"\n\nThe end of the 20th century fostered an extensive debate known as the linguistic turn controversy, or the \"innocent eye debate\", and generally referred to as the structuralism-poststructuralism debate in the philosophy of art. This debate discussed the encounter of the work of art as being determined by the relative extent to which the conceptual encounter with the work of art dominates over the perceptual encounter with the work of art.\n\nDecisive for the linguistic turn debate in art history and the humanities were the works of yet another tradition, namely the structuralism of Ferdinand de Saussure and the ensuing movement of poststructuralism. In 1981, the artist Mark Tansey created a work of art titled \"The Innocent Eye\" as a criticism of the prevailing climate of disagreement in the philosophy of art during the closing decades of the 20th century. Influential theorists include Judith Butler, Luce Irigaray, Julia Kristeva, Michel Foucault and Jacques Derrida. The power of language, more specifically of certain rhetorical tropes, in art history and historical discourse was explored by Hayden White. The fact that language is \"not\" a transparent medium of thought had been stressed by a very different form of philosophy of language which originated in the works of Johann Georg Hamann and Wilhelm von Humboldt. Ernst Gombrich and Nelson Goodman in his book \"Languages of Art: An Approach to a Theory of Symbols\" came to hold that the conceptual encounter with the work of art predominated exclusively over the perceptual and visual encounter with the work of art during the 1960s and 1970s. He was challenged on the basis of research done by the Nobel prize winning psychologist Roger Sperry who maintained that the human visual encounter was not limited to concepts represented in language alone (the linguistic turn) and that other forms of psychological representations of the work of art were equally defensible and demonstrable. Sperry's view eventually prevailed by the end of the 20th century with aesthetic philosophers such as Nick Zangwill strongly defending a return to moderate aesthetic formalism among other alternatives.\n\n Disputes as to whether or not to classify something as a work of art are referred to as classificatory disputes about art. Classificatory disputes in the 20th century have included cubist and impressionist paintings, Duchamp's \"Fountain\", the movies, superlative imitations of banknotes, conceptual art, and video games. Philosopher David Novitz has argued that disagreement about the definition of art are rarely the heart of the problem. Rather, \"the passionate concerns and interests that humans vest in their social life\" are \"so much a part of all classificatory disputes about art\" (Novitz, 1996). According to Novitz, classificatory disputes are more often disputes about societal values and where society is trying to go than they are about theory proper. For example, when the \"Daily Mail\" criticized Hirst's and Emin's work by arguing \"For 1,000 years art has been one of our great civilising forces. Today, pickled sheep and soiled beds threaten to make barbarians of us all\" they are not advancing a definition or theory about art, but questioning the value of Hirst's and Emin's work. In 1998, Arthur Danto, suggested a thought experiment showing that \"the status of an artifact as work of art results from the ideas a culture applies to it, rather than its inherent physical or perceptible qualities. Cultural interpretation (an art theory of some kind) is therefore constitutive of an object's arthood.\"\n\nAnti-art is a label for art that intentionally challenges the established parameters and values of art; it is term associated with Dadaism and attributed to Marcel Duchamp just before World War I, when he was making art from found objects. One of these, \"Fountain\" (1917), an ordinary urinal, has achieved considerable prominence and influence on art. Anti-art is a feature of work by Situationist International, the lo-fi Mail art movement, and the Young British Artists, though it is a form still rejected by the Stuckists, who describe themselves as anti-anti-art.\n\nArchitecture is often included as one of the visual arts; however, like the decorative arts, or advertising, it involves the creation of objects where the practical considerations of use are essential in a way that they usually are not in a painting, for example.\n\nSomewhat in relation to the above, the word \"art\" is also used to apply judgments of value, as in such expressions as \"that meal was a work of art\" (the cook is an artist), or \"the art of deception\", (the highly attained level of skill of the deceiver is praised). It is this use of the word as a measure of high quality and high value that gives the term its flavor of subjectivity. Making judgments of value requires a basis for criticism. At the simplest level, a way to determine whether the impact of the object on the senses meets the criteria to be considered \"art\" is whether it is perceived to be attractive or repulsive. Though perception is always colored by experience, and is necessarily subjective, it is commonly understood that what is not somehow aesthetically satisfying cannot be art. However, \"good\" art is not always or even regularly aesthetically appealing to a majority of viewers. In other words, an artist's prime motivation need not be the pursuit of the aesthetic. Also, art often depicts terrible images made for social, moral, or thought-provoking reasons. For example, Francisco Goya's painting depicting the Spanish shootings of 3rd of May 1808 is a graphic depiction of a firing squad executing several pleading civilians. Yet at the same time, the horrific imagery demonstrates Goya's keen artistic ability in composition and execution and produces fitting social and political outrage. Thus, the debate continues as to what mode of aesthetic satisfaction, if any, is required to define 'art'.\n\nThe assumption of new values or the rebellion against accepted notions of what is aesthetically superior need not occur concurrently with a complete abandonment of the pursuit of what is aesthetically appealing. Indeed, the reverse is often true, that the revision of what is popularly conceived of as being aesthetically appealing allows for a re-invigoration of aesthetic sensibility, and a new appreciation for the standards of art itself. Countless schools have proposed their own ways to define quality, yet they all seem to agree in at least one point: once their aesthetic choices are accepted, the value of the work of art is determined by its capacity to transcend the limits of its chosen medium to strike some universal chord by the rarity of the skill of the artist or in its accurate reflection in what is termed the \"zeitgeist\". Art is often intended to appeal to and connect with human emotion. It can arouse aesthetic or moral feelings, and can be understood as a way of communicating these feelings. Artists express something so that their audience is aroused to some extent, but they do not have to do so consciously. Art may be considered an exploration of the human condition; that is, what it is to be human.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12810637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12810637", "title": "Bodhisattva Precepts", "text": "Bodhisattva Precepts\n\nThe Bodhisattva Precepts (, Japanese: \"bosatsukai\") are a set of moral codes used in Mahayana Buddhism to advance a practitioner along the path to becoming a Bodhisattva. Traditionally, monastics observed the basic moral code in Buddhism, the Prātimokṣa (such as that of the Dharmaguptaka), but in the Mahayana tradition, monks may observe the Bodhisattva Precepts as well.\n\nThe \"Brahmajala Sutra\", translated by Kumārajīva (c. 400 CE), has a list of ten major and forty-eight minor Bodhisattva vows. The Bodhisattva Precepts may be often called the \"Brahma Net Precepts\" (), particularly in Buddhist scholarship, although other sets of bodhisattva precepts may be found in other texts as well. Typically, in East Asian Mahayana traditions, only the ten major precepts are considered the bodhisattva precepts. According to the sutra, the ten major bodhisattva precepts are in summary:\n\n\nBreaking any of these precepts is described as a major offense in the sutra. A fuller description is as follows:\nAsanga (circa 300 AD) delineated 18 major vows and forty-six minor vows in the \"Bodhisattvabhumi\" section of the \"Yogācārabhūmi Śāstra\". These Bodhisattva vows are still used in all four major traditions of Tibetan Buddhism. The eighteen major vows (as actions to be abandoned) are as follows:\n\nAccording to Atiśa, the Prātimokṣa vows are the basis for the Bodhisattva vows. Without keeping one of the different sets of Prātimokṣa vows (in one of the existing Vinaya schools), there can be no Bodhisattva vow.\n\nIn the Sōtō school of Zen, the founder Dōgen established a somewhat expanded version of the Bodhisattva Precepts for use by both priests and lay followers, based on both Brahma Net Sutra and other sources. Many various translations exist, the following is used by John Daido Loori, rōshi at the Zen Mountain Monastery:\n\n\nThe Three Treasures are universally known in Buddhism as the Three Refuges or Three Jewels.\n\n\nThese are also known as the \"Three Root Precepts\", and are mentioned in the Brahma Net Sutra as well.\n\n\nThe Chinese Chan monk, Yin Shun, wrote of the Bodhisattva Precepts, \"To cultivate bodhi mind means to accept the bodhisattva precepts and practice the ten good deeds.\"\n\nIn practice, the acceptance of and ordination of the Bodhisattva Precepts varies greatly depending on the school of Mahayana Buddhism. In East Asian Buddhism, a fully ordained monk or nun ordains under the traditional prātimokṣa precepts first according to the vinaya of the Dharmaguptaka. In the Chinese tradition, this is called the \"Four Part Vinaya\" (). Then as a supplement, the same disciple would undertake the Bodhisattva Precepts as well.\n\nMonks and nuns are not considered \"ordained\" by the Bodhisattva Precepts, but rather by the \"Four Part Vinaya\", while the Bodhisattva Precepts served to strengthen the Mahayana ideals. Similarly, the Bodhisattva Precepts are given to lay disciples to strengthen their devotion to Buddhism as well. Such disciples often take the basic Five Precepts and then the Bodhisattva precepts as a supplement.\n\nIn Buddhism in Japan, the \"Four-Part Vinaya\" was deemphasized with the rise of Saichō and the Tendai sect and a new monastic community was set up exclusively using the \"Brahmajala Sutra\"s Bodhisattva Precepts. All Vinaya ordinations at the time were given at Tōdai-ji in Nara and Saichō had wanted to both undermine the power of the Nara Buddhist community and to establish a \"purely Mahayana lineage\", and made a request to the Emperor to Later Buddhist sects, which was granted 7 days after his death in 822.\n\nLater Buddhist sects in Japan, including the Sōtō school of Zen, Jōdo-shū and Shingon Buddhism, adopted a similar approach to their monastic communities and exclusive use of the Bodhisattva Precepts. By this time in Japan, the Vinaya lineage had all but died out and Japan's remote location made it difficult to reestablish though limited efforts by Jōkei and the Shingon Risshu revived it for a time. This was further enforced during the Meiji period, when the of 1872 decriminalized clerical marriage and meat-eating.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39053238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39053238", "title": "Clara Tice", "text": "Clara Tice\n\nClara Tice (22 May 1888 – 2 February 1973) was an American avant-garde illustrator and artist, who spent most of her life in New York City, United States. Because of her provocative art and public appearances, she was seen as representative of bohemian Greenwich Village and thus known as \"The Queen of Greenwich Village.\"\n\nAccording to herself and the \"New York Times\", in 1908 Tice was the first woman in Greenwich Village to bob her hair. Around the same time, Tice was able to study under the famous artist and teacher Robert Henri. In 1910, Henri and some of his artist friends, organized the first exhibition of Independent Artist. This art show, which was with its jury-free and no-awards concept quite a revolution at that time and thus received enormous attention, was financially backed by Tice and featured her works.\n\nA few years later, namely in 1915, Tice's fame skyrocketed when Anthony Comstock, main founder of the Society for the Suppression of Vice, tried to confiscate Tice's art at the well-known bohemian restaurant Polly's. Thereafter images of Tice's artworks and photos of the artist were featured in magazines such as \"Vanity Fair, Rogue, The Blind Man,\" and \"Cartoons magazine\". During that time she had several one-person exhibitions and also worked on numerous other projects, for example, she created posters for bohemian costume balls and played herself in the 1922 version of the \"Greenwich Village Follies\".\n\nDuring those years, Tice not only played an important part in Greenwich Village's colorful art scene, but also joined the Arensberg Circle in their uptown location. It was probably Marcel Duchamp who introduced Tice to Walter and Louise Arensberg and their salon. There she met Henri-Pierre Roché, with whom she spent several evenings. Tice also participated in two projects by the Arensberg Circle: first, two of her works were shown in the first exhibition of the Society of Independent Artists and second, one of her works was featured in \"The Blind Man\".\n\nDuring the 1920s, she illustrated about a dozen books with her erotic images, these are nowadays expensive collector's items. In 1940, her own book called \"ABC Dogs\" was published. It is a children's book in which each letter of the alphabet is represented by a dog breed whose name starts with the same letter. This publication sparked renewed interest in Tice and her art. She also worked on her memoirs, which she never completed.\n"}
{"id": "22665481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22665481", "title": "Clifford semigroup", "text": "Clifford semigroup\n\nA Clifford semigroup (sometimes also called \"inverse Clifford semigroup\") is a completely regular inverse semigroup.\nIt is an inverse semigroup with\nformula_1. Examples of Clifford semigroups are groups and commutative inverse semigroups.\n\nIn a Clifford semigroup, formula_2.\n"}
{"id": "2051798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2051798", "title": "Comparative contextual analysis", "text": "Comparative contextual analysis\n\nComparative contextual analysis is a methodology for comparative research where contextual interrogation precedes any analysis of similarity and difference. It is a thematic process directed and designed to explore relationships of agency rather than institutional or structural frameworks. See structure and agency and theory of structuration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6768922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6768922", "title": "Destruction in Art Symposium", "text": "Destruction in Art Symposium\n\nThe Destruction in Art Symposium (DIAS) was a gathering of a diverse group of international artists, poets, and scientists to London, from 9–11 September 1966. Included in this number were representatives of the counter-cultural underground who were there to speak on the theme of destruction in art.\n\nThe Honorary Committee, led by Gustav Metzger, attracted the attention of both the international media and international art community to the symposium.\n\nThe symposium was held at the Africa Centre in Covent Garden, London.\n\nA DIAS press release claimed: \nThroughout September, Happenings took place in venues all over London, including Conway Hall.\n\nJohn Latham constructed three large \"Skoob Towers\" out of books, which they called \"The laws of England\", and set fire to them outside of the British Museum.\n\n\nThe following artists were involved in DIAS: \n\nThe following artists are said to have participated in DIAS \"in absentia\":\n\nPhotographers:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39475259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39475259", "title": "Ecoweek", "text": "Ecoweek\n\nECOWEEK \"Εβδομάδα Οικολογίας\" (Greek) is a private non-profit, non-governmental international organization aiming towards the empowerment, networking, education and training of young professionals - architects, designers, engineers, landscape architects - towards sustainable urban and public interventions and facilitation of action through fieldwork, workshops, education and training and through cooperation with local authorities, organizations and leaders.\n\nECOWEEK mission is to raise environmental awareness and awareness on climate change and to promote the principles of sustainability.\n\nECOWEEK was initially established in Aegina, Greece in 2005. It was initially conceived as a community event - \"Ecological Week in Aegina\" - to raise environmental awareness of the local community of 14,000. At the time Aegina was challenged by unresolved waste management, illegal burning of waste, inexistant waste recycling program, water shortages, energy shortages, and a thriving and partially unregulated spec construction market for summer houses, which although contributed to the local economy, it put pressure in protected areas to be developed and constructed. Construction also contributed in increasing illegal disposal of construction waste in natural reserves, and the increase of the summer population thus bringing the capacity of the existing infrastructures of the island to its limits.\n\nEcological Week in Aegina was held in Aegina for 2 years. In 2007, responding to an increase demand for environmental awareness beyond Aegina, ECOWEEK co-organized activity throughout Greece, and initiated free-admission screenings of award-winning documentary on Climate Change by Davis Guggenheim \"An Inconvenient Truth\" with Al Gore in schools, the army, and public screenings in Athens, Thessaloniki, Patras, Lamia, Corfu, and Crete. Within this activity, in June 2007, ECOWEEK held a public free-admission keynote lecture and slide show on Climate Change by inviting Al Gore to the Athens Concert Hall. In 2007 ECOWEEK was also established in Jerusalem, Israel and in 2008 ECOWEEK initiated the first Ecological Week in Larnaka, Cyprus, in cooperation with the Municipality of Larnaka], involving schools, universities, professional organizations, and the general public.\n\nSince 2005, ECOWEEK developed its outreach activity towards raising awareness to a variety of population groups, age-groups and interests. For example, from children activity, cleaning of beaches, lottery of composters and solar chargers, to academic and colloquial lectures, site visits, design workshops, and film screenings.\nSince 2008, ECOWEEK activity focuses more on sustainable design and ecological building, social design,and placemaking. Its activity involved primarily one-week-long design workshops and international conferences for young and established professionals - primarily architects, designers, landscape architects and engineers. ECOWEEK has developed and expanded its activity through close collaboration with cultural institutions, such as the American Institute of Architects Continental Europe, the British Council, Goethe Institute, academic institutions, municipalities and governments. ECOWEEK has initiated and organized activities in Ag. Nikolaos (Crete), Athens, Azaryia (Bethany), Belgrade, Bucharest, Cairns, Copenhagen, Istanbul, Jerusalem, Kraków, London, Milano, Mumbai, Sarajevo, Tel Aviv, Thessaloniki, Tilburg, Prishtina, and Rome.\n\nIn 2017 ECOWEEK published its first book titled ECOWEEK Book#1: 50 Voices for Sustainability, featuring fifty articles by leading architects,designers, professionals, academics and environmentalists from around the world. Among them award-winning architects Kengo Kuma, BIG, MVRDV, Francoise-Helene Jourda, Diebedo Francis Kere, Michael Sorkin, Prof. David Orr and Antarctica explorer Robert Swan. The same year ECOWEEK also issued ECOWEEK: The Workshops a publication with a collection of ideas and projects from the ECOWEEK workshops (2009-2016).\n\nIn 1989 ECOWEEK co-founder architect Elias Messinas met the late Egyptian architect Hassan Fathy - author of Architecture for the Poor - in Cairo. In that meeting, Fathy conveyed to Messinas how problems in Egypt - among them housing for the poor - could be solved. Among others Fathy challenged Messinas when he emphasized the need for young professionals to be more aware of their own community and instead of imitating architecture in international magazines, to reach out, learn about and be creative while benefiting with their work their own community.\n\nInspired by Fathy, ECOWEEK workshops have gradually developed a more hands-on approach that links between acedemia and the community, and between professionals and students since 2010. Aiming to both empower and train young professionals to address urban public space, placemaking, urban communities through interventions in design and hands-on workshops in urban public context, ECOWEEK and its partners have developed a model of close collaboration with local authorities, local organizations and leaders. Through this collaboration, the ECOWEEK workshops are assigned projects that are real, support them with professional consultants and see that some of the projects are implemented. Students' ideas are heard and cities, neighborhoods and communities benefit from the innovative and creative ideas of students and the professional guidance of the workshop leaders. The ECOWEEK workshops have developed sustainable proposals for \"Copenhagen, Thessaloniki, Rome, Belgrade, Kraków, Jerusalem, and Azaryia.\n\nAiming to establish a permanent platform and not just one-week-long activity, ECOWEEK established the GREENHOUSE in 2011 in Athens, Greece. The GREENHOUSE is a platform for innovation and entrepreneurship for society and the environment, engaging young architects, designers, landscape architects and students in real design assignments for real non-profit organizations and local authorities. The GREENHOUSE teams, under the guidance of experienced professionals, have developed sustainable solutions for schools, community centers, welfare institutions and the urban public space in Athens and Thessaloniki in Greece and Holon, Bat Yam and Jaffa in Israel.\n"}
{"id": "33932560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33932560", "title": "Effectiveness of torture for interrogation", "text": "Effectiveness of torture for interrogation\n\nTorture has been used throughout history for the purpose of obtaining information in interrogation. Torture, while widely illegal and a violation of international law, has been frequently cited as generating false or misleading information, and lacks scientific evidence supporting its effectiveness. The counterargument points to some specific cases where torture has elicited true information.\n\nOne early writer on the ineffectiveness of torture was Friedrich Spee (1591-1635). Spee was a German Jesuit priest, professor, and poet, most noted as an opponent of trials for witchcraft. Spee was the first person in his time to present strong written and spoken arguments against torture, especially with regards to its unreliability in obtaining \"truth\" from someone undergoing painful questioning. It was found that subjects would make up stories if it meant the torture would cease.\n\nAfter the dropping of the atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki during World War II, the Japanese military tortured a captured American P-51 fighter pilot, Marcus McDilda, in order to discover how many atomic bombs the Allies had and what the future targets were. McDilda, who knew nothing about the atomic bomb nor the Manhattan Project, \"confessed\" under torture that the U.S. had 100 atomic bombs and that Tokyo and Kyoto were the next targets. McDilda's false confession may have swayed the Japanese leaders' decision to surrender.\n\nChinese interrogators tortured U.S. Air Force prisoners of war during the Korean War with the specific goal of eliciting false confessions. After the war, these false confessions led to allegations that the airmen had been \"brainwashed\", so the United States interviewed the former prisoners of war to collect information on the torture techniques employed, publishing their results in 1957. These torture techniques were incorporated into the Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape (SERE) program to train servicemembers to resist torture.\n\nFM 34-52 Intelligence Interrogation, the United States Army field manual, explains that torture \"is a poor technique that yields unreliable results, may damage subsequent collection efforts, and can induce the source to say what he thinks the interrogator wants to hear.\" Not only is torture ineffective at gathering reliable information, but it also increases the difficulty of gathering information from a source in the future.\n\nFalse information about a link between Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda was extracted from Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi through torture and was cited by the George W. Bush Administration in the months preceding its 2003 invasion of Iraq. That information was frequently repeated by members of the Bush Administration, although reports from both the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) strongly questioned its credibility, suggesting that al-Libi was \"intentionally misleading\" interrogators.\n\nSince the revelations in 2004 and 2008 that the President George W. Bush administration authorized the use of torture in interrogations, and that United States personnel have used such practices in interrogations related to the 9/11 attacks and al-Qaeda, both at black sites and at Guantánamo Bay detention camp, discussions on this topic have been heated. In commenting on the use and effectiveness of various torture methods, with a focus on waterboarding, former U.S. Director of National Intelligence, Dennis C. Blair, wrote in 2009 that \"high value information came from interrogations in which these methods were used\". However a Senate Committee that investigated claims of useful information being extracted from suspects that underwent enhanced interrogation concluded that critical and valuable information was not obtained using these methods. The 5,700-page Senate Intelligence Committee report on CIA torture also concluded that the CIA repeatedly and deliberately impeded oversight, as well as misrepresenting the effectiveness of torture as an interrogation technique to policymakers and to the public through coordinated leaking of false information.\n\nAlex Knapp, a staff writer at \"Forbes,\" wrote the following in 2009, \"Time and time again, people with actual experience with interrogating terror suspects and actual experience and knowledge about the effectiveness of torture techniques have come out to explain that they are ineffective and that their use threatens national security more than it helps\". He had written an article about an FBI interrogator, who noted their practice did not include torture; FBI agents had registered strong disapproval of the US military approach.\n\nAnnette Sisco argues that \"the [torture] techniques... are specifically designed to make captives pliable and dependent. They are designed to get prisoners to say whatever you want them to say\". Many torture survivors report revealing false or incomplete information since their goal was to satisfy the torturer and end the suffering, not to reveal information.\n\nThe book \"Physicians at War: the Dual-Loyalties Challenge\" by Fritz Allhoff explains that \"to test the effectiveness of torture researchers would have to ignore the consent of the research subjects\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8704614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8704614", "title": "Emergency contraceptive availability by country", "text": "Emergency contraceptive availability by country\n\nThis table includes a list of countries by emergency contraceptive availability.\n\n\"(LNG refers to Levonorgestrel\" \"and UPA refers to Ulipristal acetate).\"\n"}
{"id": "2083590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2083590", "title": "Entitlement", "text": "Entitlement\n\nAn entitlement is a provision made in accordance with a legal framework of a society. Typically, entitlements are based on concepts of principle (\"rights\") which are themselves based in concepts of social equality or enfranchisement. In recent decades the meaning of the word has been extended to encompass informal expectations of social relationships, social conventions and social norms which are considered unreasonable or unduly prescriptive upon others.\n\nPsychoanalysis differentiated among children three main varieties of the sense of entitlement: normal; inflated; and compromised. A normal or healthy sense of entitlement included an expectation of responsiveness from significant others, a sense of agency, and a sense of one's right to one's own feelings - all forming positive elements in self-esteem. The inflated sense of entitlement sought special privileges for the individual alone, perhaps to compensate for childhood suffering or narcissistic injury; while the compromised sense involved an inability to expect the basic rights enjoyed by those around one. \n\nIvan Boszormenyi-Nagy distinguished in adult life between (ethically) \"earning\" entitlement in relationships, through care and consideration, and a subjective feeling of entitlement the real basis for which may be very different. Thus the depressive may have an unjustifiably low sense of entitlement, the manic an exaggeratedly high one. The gambler may feel \"entitled\" to expect a big win, to compensate for childhood deprivation; those who clamour most loudly for such reimbursement from fate may in fact unconsciously doubt their entitlement to anything at all.\n\nAn inflated sense of what is sometimes called \"psychological entitlement\" - unrealistic, exaggerated, or rigidly held - is especially prominent among narcissists. According to the DSM-5, individuals with narcissistic personality disorder (NPD) are likely to have a \"sense of entitlement to special treatment and to obedience from others\", typically without commensurate qualities or accomplishments: Similarly, according to Vaknin, the narcissistic personality attempts to protect the vulnerable self by building layers of grandiosity and a huge sense of entitlement.\n\nWhile an earned sense of entitlement is usually seen as more beneficent than purely psychological entitlement, it can also have a destructive counterpart in the sense of a felt entitlement to revenge based on the accumulation of grievances.\n\n"}
{"id": "317109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317109", "title": "Exalted", "text": "Exalted\n\nExalted is a role-playing game published by White Wolf Publishing. The game is classified as high fantasy and it was inspired by a mixture of world mythologies as well as Japanese Anime. The game is currently in its third edition. First Edition was originally created by Robert Hatch, Justin Achilli and Stephan Wieck. The original core rulebook was published in July 2001.\n\nThe setting is strongly influenced by Tanith Lee's \"Tales from the Flat Earth\", Michael Moorcock's \"Hawkmoon\", Lord Dunsany's \"The Gods of Pegana\" and Yoshiaki Kawajiri's \"Ninja Scroll\". Other influences include Glen Cook's \"The Black Company\"; Sean Stewart's \"Resurrection Man\", \"The Night Watch\", and \"Galveston\"; Homer's \"Odyssey\", the Bible, and Wu Cheng'en's \"Journey to the West\".\n\nThe game uses ten-sided dice and a variation of the Storyteller System to arbitrate the action, and, as with many other RPGs, requires little beyond the rulebooks themselves, dice, pencil, and paper. The Exalted version of the rules were derived from the trilogy of White Wolf Publishing games Aeon (Trinity), Aberrant, and Adventure where the idea of a fixed target number of 7 or higher was first introduced. \n\nCharacters may be frequently presented with challenges that normal human beings, even within the context of the game, would find difficult, deadly, or simply impossible. However, as the chosen champions of greater powers, each Exalt possesses Charms, which may either enhance their natural capabilities or manifest as shows of great power. An Exalt with low-level archery charms might find her arrows hitting with preternatural accuracy, while greater faculty might allow her to shoot without difficulty to the edge of her vision, or turn a single arrow into a deadly rain of ammunition.\n\nThe Exalted frequently power their charms with accumulated Essence, a universal energy that flows through and comprises Creation and other worlds. While normally their Essence recovered slowly through rest, in the first two editions they could also regain it more quickly by performing \"stunts\", actions given special description and embellishment by the players. In the third edition stunts no longer regenerate Essence, but combat automatically causes Essence stores to refill quickly. However, stunts continue to exist, and their primary benefit—adding extra dice to the actions they describe, thus enhancing the possibility of success—remains.\n\nExalted has mechanical and thematic similarities to White Wolf's previous game series, the old World of Darkness, but exists in its own product line, called the Age of Sorrows. The game has a sales record on par with the company's flagship title, \"\", the second edition core rulebook achieving a sales ranking at #23,558 on Amazon.com with a 4.5-star mean user review rating based on 13 user reviews as of January 2009.\n\nThe initial advertisements for Exalted placed the Age of Sorrows as the pre-history of the old World of Darkness. However, once the game was released such connections became uncertain: names and themes from the World of Darkness line run throughout the material, but rarely in a way that suggested a direct connection between one and the other. Meanwhile, some oWoD supplements also supported this; the Hunter Apocrypha gave a vision of the past that said that Hunters gained their power from the broken shards of the souls of great heroes of a lost age. which seems to suggest that hunters carry fragments of Solar Essences. Likewise, the Kindred of the East supplement gave a structure of the Wheel of Ages (mirrored in Exalted first edition books as the Ages of Man) that seemed to accommodate the integration of Exalted and the classic World of Darkness, the former the first and second age, and the latter being the fifth age.\n\nHowever, per the commentary of multiple developers, the connections are deliberately tenuous, allowing players to be free to treat it as a prehistory or as its own world as it may suit their individual game. The similarities between Exalted and the new edition of the World of Darkness are even weaker. The Second Edition seems to imply that its story is the prehistory of our \"own\" world on its back cover, but this idea is not explored in any depth past that book; while the last book of Second Edition would posit a modernized world with the Exalted, it was clearly a technologically advanced version of Creation – the world of Exalted – rather than Earth.\n\nShards of the Exalted Dream, the final 2nd edition product, was published in January 2012. Development of Exalted 3rd Edition was officially announced in October 2012. A Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign for Exalted 3rd edition ran in 2013 from May 9 to June 8, reaching its $60,000 funding goal within 18 minutes, and raising a total of $684,755 and breaking Numenera's record for the most funded tabletop RPG Kickstarter.\n\nIn March 2008, White Wolf Publishing unveiled a promotion that would allow 2,500 Dungeons & Dragons players to exchange their copy of their Edition 3.5 Player's Handbook for a copy of the Exalted Second Edition Core Rulebook. The promotion was called \"Graduate your Game\" and has received mixed reviews from fans of both games. The success of this promotion was not revealed.\n\nIn Exalted, the player characters are chosen by a deity and imbued with their powers (thus, \"exalted\", or \"raised high\"). There are numerous varieties of Exalted, each chosen by a different deity or group of deities; however, the core game is based around the Solar Exalted, Chosen of the Unconquered Sun, with the Core Rulebook covering the Solars' abilities, powers, and place within the setting. While the core rulebook mentions and discusses the other Exalted to the extent necessary for them to appear as supporting characters in Solar-themed games, additional sourcebooks provide the depth of detail necessary to stage other Exalted as playable characters.\n\nAccording to the core sourcebooks and the supplementary materials, the history of the setting begins with the Primordials: vast entities akin to Greek primordial deities or the Outer Gods of H. P. Lovecraft's works, even going so far as to use similar epithets to the latter. They shaped Creation – a flat world of finite extent – from the primordial chaos, and placed the gods (numberless immortal spirits resembling the Kami of Shinto) to watch over it.\n\nIn time, the Celestial Incarnae, the greatest of the gods who represented great celestial objects such as the sun and moon, decided to end the rule of the callous and destructive Primordials and claim the Games of Divinity for their own, but they were forbidden from taking arms against the Primordials themselves. Instead, they imbued exceptional humans with their power (the titular Exalted) to fight for them. After a cataclysmic struggle, the Exalted finally triumphed over the Primordials, slaying many and then forcing the others to surrender.\n\nUpon victory, the gods retreated to the city of Yu-Shan to oversee from on high, and granted the Exalted the Creation-Ruling Mandate as a boon for their service to the new order. The surrendered Primordials were banished to/became the Hell known as Malfeas, the Demon City. Now they are half-remembered only as the Yozis: ill-understood and impersonal cosmic deities whose continued worship is reckoned among the highest of heresies. The slain Primordials are known as the Neverborn, quiescent monsters whose impossible ending resulted in the formation of the Underworld.\n\nCommon to all of White Wolf Publishing's games, the primary character archetype, the Exalted, suffer from a systemic character flaw. In this case, this flaw is represented by a \"Great Curse\", uttered upon the dying breaths of the slain Primordials. This Great Curse manifests itself in a variety of ways and causes the \"heroes\" of the setting to be fatally flawed. In the game's history, the Solars eventually grew decadent and corrupt from this influence. After centuries of plotting, the Solars were slaughtered in a massive insurrection known as the Usurpation by the Terrestrial and Sidereal Exalted, their servants and advisors. After the Usurpation, the majority of the Exaltations of the Solar Exalted were locked away, and an organization known as the Wyld Hunt was organized by agents of the Sidereals and Terrestrials to kill all the others, and drive the Lunar Exalted from the civilised lands of Creation.\n\nDuring the intervening age, the Terrestrial Exalted became the rulers of the world, ruling in a system not unlike the shogunate of feudal Japan. After the Great Contagion (a plague engineered by the Neverborn to swell the population of the underworld and weaken Creation) and the Balorian Crusade (a war with the Fair Folk, who seek to return the world to Chaos) wrought devastation across Creation, a young captain of the Dragon-Blooded armies gained access to powerful weapons of the First Age. With these, she first beat back the Balorian Crusade, and then asserted her rulership over much of the world, dubbing herself the Scarlet Empress. Nearly eight hundred years later—in the present day of the game—there are eleven Great Houses of the Realm, nearly all of whom claim direct descent from the Empress.\n\nFive years prior to the default starting point of the game, the Empress vanished. While she had temporarily disappeared before, by the present of the game it is believed she will not return, and the Realm stands on the brink of civil war. Simultaneously, the Solar exaltations held in the Jade Prison have returned. With the Houses ignoring the threat of the Celestial Exalted to position themselves to take control of the Realm, the number of Solar Exalted in Creation is slowly growing. Thus, the backdrop to the setting sees the newly arisen Solars (among various other heroes and villains) struggling to survive their enemies in this time of tumult long enough to make their mark upon the fate of Creation, for good or for ill.\n\nThe flat world of Creation is the primary setting of Exalted. Creation has two continents, the Blessed Isle and the unnamed super-continent which covers the northern, eastern and southern edges of Creation, populated by many nations and tribes, with the settled regions along the inner coast of this super-continent being known collectively as the threshold. The Blessed Isle is located in the center of Creation. The Realm rules the Blessed Isle and its proximate archipelago directly, and indirectly rules numerous tributary states known as satrapies along the threshold. The elemental poles of Creation color the directions of the map: the frigid North, near the pole of Air, is divided by the White Sea; The element of Wood influences the heavily forested East, the most densely populated region of Creation other than the Blessed Isle; the Scavenger Lands, formally named the Confederation of Rivers, is an organization of allied nations within the East; the South, drawing from the Pole of Fire, is a hot, arid region; the influence of the Pole of Water upon the West shows itself in the Great Western Ocean encompassing various major and minor island nations; finally, the Elemental Pole of Earth, the least dangerous of the five, is located at the top of the towering Imperial Mountain in the centre of the Blessed Isle.\n\nSurrounding Creation is the infinite ocean of Pure Chaos known as the Wyld. The cosmology of Exalted also includes the Underworld, the celestial city of Yu-Shan, the demon realm of Malfeas, the machine world of Autochthonia, and Elsewhere.\n\nAt the core of the setting, there are several different types of Exalted, any type of which could play the role of protagonist or antagonist of the game. The Exalted of Creation can be divided into two categories: Terrestrial Exalted and Celestial Exalted. Celestial Exalted, being the chosen of the Celestial Incarnae, are significantly more powerful than Terrestrial Exalted, and can live for millennia, but their numbers are limited by a fixed number of Exaltations passing from mortal life to mortal life at any given time. Terrestrial Exalted are the chosen of the Elemental Dragons, children of the primordial Gaia, who govern the elemental underpinnings of Creation. While less powerful, Terrestrial Exalted (commonly known as the Dragon-Blooded) can pass on their Exaltation to their children, much like one would pass on other genetic features.\n\nThe Abyssal, Alchemical, and Infernal Exalted technically fall outside of the two categories, though their power level is comparable to that of Celestial Exalted. A brief synopsis of each type is given here, organized by relative power and significance within the game.\n\nMost types of Exalted have certain collective predispositions toward or against other Exalt types, and may be viewed differently by the various mortals of Creation; while the Dragon-Blooded and their world-spanning empire are often seen as demigods and heroes, for instance, the Lunar Exalted are often seen as monstrous and dangerous; this is in part owing to their abilities to take the shapes of animals and monsters and other humans by killing them, but also due to the concerted efforts of Terrestrial propaganda.\n\nThe default protagonists of \"Exalted\" and the champions of the chief of the gods, a being known as the Unconquered Sun. There are five castes of Solar Exalted: Dawn (the warriors and generals), Zenith (the priest-kings of the Unconquered Sun), Twilight (the scholars and sorcerers), Night (the spies and assassins) and Eclipse (the ambassadors, diplomats, and negotiators).\n\nConsidered to be Anathema by much of the mortal world of the Second Age, the Solars are regarded as monstrous demons and few remember their former greatness. This is due to a prolonged and widespread campaign of propaganda orchestrated by the Terrestrials, via a now firmly established religion known as the Immaculate Order.\n\nThe nature of Solar charms tends to express itself instead through human excellence taken to superhuman extremes, and as such their raw prowess in most skills easily exceeds any of the others. Their three greatest advantages are their large Essence pools that give them more raw power to work with, their powerful, efficient, straightforward charms, and their ability to use the highest of all forms of sorcery, the Adamant Circle – also called the Solar Circle due to the Solars alone being able to access that circle of sorcery. With the addition in the third edition of Evocations—powers derived from legendary artifacts—the Solars have attained another area in which they are the undisputed masters.\n\nLoyal servants of the Deathlords, the Abyssal castes are a dark reflection of their Solar counterparts; Dusk (soldiers, generals, and martial champions), Midnight (priests and leaders), Daybreak (scholars and artisans), Day (assassins and spies), and Moonshadow (bureaucrats, diplomats, and couriers).\n\nIn the present of Exalted, the Neverborn sow their revenge from beyond the grave through their Deathlord servants. The source materials, primarily the second-edition sourcebook \"The Manual of Exalted Power: Abyssals\", present the Deathlords as the largely insane ghosts of First Age Solars slaughtered in the Usurpation, who are easily among the most powerful beings in the Underworld of Exalted. The Deathlords have varied goals, but most strive not to conquer or corrupt Creation, save as a path to the Neverborn's desire: the complete destruction of existence.\n\nThe named agents of the Deathlords in the world of the living are the Abyssal Exalted, also known as Deathknights; these antagonists are dark reflections of the Solar Exalted and are presented as being their equal in power. They were created by the Deathlords through powerful sorcery taught them by the Neverborn, using Solar Exaltations stolen from the Jade Prison. Willing Solar Exalted can also be converted to Abyssal Exalted with powerful magic. They field vast undead armies, bolstered by ancient knowledge long since lost in the world of the living but still readily available in the lingering dead, and a powerful form of magic known as necromancy. Several sourcebooks present the Abyssals and the Deathlords as having a tentative foothold in Creation, likely representing a grave threat.\n\nPresented as the most anarchistic and chaotic of the Exalted. In the sourcebooks, they are often referred to as cunning shapeshifters, skilled fighters, and capable generals. \n\nWithin the game's history, they were very tightly bound to the First Age Solars. While many stood and died beside their Solar friends and spouses in the Usurpation, those that were not killed along with their companions fled to the edges of Creation.\n\nAt the borders of the order of Creation and the chaotic turbulence of the Wyld, their natures were changed over a great many years. Lunars follow at best a loose tribal hierarchy and ritually tattoo each other to protect themselves from the warping effects of the Wyld. This further serves to mark them as different from the rest of humanity; the tattoos are made of moonsilver and are often visible over much of the Lunar's body. \n\nSecond edition materials detailed the Lunar Exalted's subversive influence on Creation's societies and revealed the Thousand Streams River Project, a complicated system of social engineering designed to create self-sufficient human societies that do not require Exalted leadership to function. Several major societies within the game were declared the results of centuries of subtle, behind-the-scenes guidance, with varying degrees of success.\n\nThese Celestial Exalted are the least numerous of all the Exalted types (with the exception of the newly created Infernals), yet are described as major players in the fate of Creation. Sidereals, in addition to their mastery of martial arts, evidenced by their access to the highest forms of martial-arts magical abilities (known as Sidereal martial arts), excel at foreseeing and manipulating fate. Within the Exalted universe, they are often presented as celestial bureaucrats who often work in the Bureau of Fate of the Celestial City of Yu-Shan, the home of the gods, directing events in the mortal world from behind the scenes.\n\nThey were the viziers, prophets and cunning advisers of the First Age. Toward the end of the First Age, a prophecy came to them that warned that without action, Creation would fall to darkness. Seeking to save the world, the Sidereals looked into the future and saw two options: attempt to reform of their maddening kings, or destroy the Solar Exalted and raise up the Dragon-blooded in their place. The Sidereals, possibly under the effects of the Great Curse laid upon them by the Neverborn, elected the path that offered a guaranteed future for Creation. As such, they orchestrated the end of the First Age, known as the Great Usurpation. \n\nSidereals slip from the minds of those who meet them, mortal and Exalt alike, which can be beneficial to Sidereal characters or harmful, depending on their intended goals as player characters and non-player characters. Some unpredicted events prior to the \"present\" setting of Exalted, such as the Great Contagion, have jarred their faith in their precognitive abilities. Meanwhile, the loss of the Scarlet Empress, their secret ally at the top of the Scarlet Dynasty, has greatly weakened their influence.\n\nIn the present, a growing rift between the Bronze Faction (which supports the Dragon-Blooded hegemony) and the Gold Faction (which backs the newly-returned Solars) renders the Sidereal Exalted uncertain of their future.\n\nThere are five elemental aspects to the Dragon-Blooded: Air, Earth, Fire, Water, and Wood. In the history of Exalted, they were the elite infantry and servants to the rest of the Exalted in the First Age. They are less powerful than other types of Exalted, but most of their strength lies in their inheritance – rather than being chosen by a god, the Dragon-Blooded have the potential to share their Exaltation through their bloodline. With their comparatively massive numbers, along with the help and guidance of the Sidereal Exalted, they were able to overthrow the Solar Exalted at the height of their power and end the First Age.\n\nThe most prevalent Dragon-Blooded in Creation make up the ruling class of the Realm, currently the most powerful empire in Creation. The state-sanctioned faith known as the Immaculate Order paints the Solar and Lunar Exalted as dangerous Anathema who will bring ruin to the world if allowed to exist. Because of this, the Realm organizes the Wyld Hunt, which actively seeks out dangers to the Realm (such \"Anathema\" include many other types of Exalted, rogue gods, and the Fair Folk) and destroys them. This practice had effectively kept the Solars from rising to power again since the end of the First Age, but has faltered with the recent disappearance of the Scarlet Empress; the power struggle to fill the resulting vacuum has destabilized the Realm and allowed the Solar Exalted to escape the purges of the Wyld Hunt and rise in Creation once more.\n\nThe ruling Dragon-Blooded of the Realm are made up of the eleven Great Houses. Most houses were founded by and named after one of the Scarlet Empress's Exalted offspring, though at least two are descended from the Empress' late husbands and consorts, and three unspecified houses are descended from adopted children of the Empress. The prominent Dragon-Blooded families of the rival city-state of Lookshy, across the Inner Sea, are known as Gentes.\n\n Creations made from clay and the Five Magical Materials, built in the world of Autochthonia. They were introduced in the supplement \"Time of Tumult\". Alchemicals serve the Great Maker Autochthon, a primordial who assisted the Gods by sharing the secret of Exaltation with them. The Champions are infused with the souls of dead Autochthonian heroes, and they serve as protectors of the inhabitants of a parallel world made up of the body of Autochthon himself, and enforce the will of the Tripartite, the theocratic government of this world. They divide themselves into castes according to which material was mainly used in their construction: there are five canon castes, one for each of the Five Magical Materials, as well as the optional Adamant caste. Instead of wielding Essence directly and using their Charms in a \"magical\" fashion like other Exalted do, the Alchemicals have Charms \"installed\" like peripheral parts. As Alchemical Exalted grow in power, they also increase in size, eventually physically joining with Autochthon and forming living, sapient cities. \nThe Alchemicals are not subject to the Great Curse, as they did not fight in the Primordial War. In gameplay, in place of curse driven insanity, they have a Clarity track which measures their distance from humanity. Those Alchemicals who have been infected with Autochthon's illness have a Dissonance track in place of a Clarity track, with Dissonance measuring their madness, corruption, and drive to violate boundaries. A brief tour of the world of Autochthonia can be found on the game's website.\n\nThey currently have less published material covering their nature, back-story and abilities than other Exalts. There are two types of Infernal Exalted, the Akuma and the Green Sun Princes. \n\nRules for Akuma were first introduced in the 1st edition Exalted Player's Guide (April 2004). Akuma are Exalted of another type who have given themselves over to the cause of the Yozis and have been remade according to their masters' desires. They retain access to their native charm set and gain the ability to learn and use their patron Yozi's Infernal charms. \n\nThe Green Sun Princes are made with the fifty Essences of Solar Exalts which the Yozis took in payment from the Neverborn and altered to emulate themselves in exchange for teaching the Neverborn to corrupt Solar Essences to create the Abyssals. While the first edition hinted at their existence, they did not get official rules until 2nd edition's Manual of Exalted Power - The Infernals (April 2009). The Green Sun Princes were created by a cadre of five of the Yozis; Malfeas, She Who Lives In Her Name, Cecylene, Adorjan, and the Ebon Dragon. Each of these Yozis is responsible for the creation of one caste of Green Sun Princes and the charms associated with that caste, Malfeas created the Slayers, Cecylene created the Malefactors, She Who Lives in Her Name created the Defilers, Adorjan created the Scourges and the Ebon Dragon created the Fiends. Green Sun Princes of any caste can learn the charms of all five castes, as well as the charms of any other Yozis who have opened up access to their charms to the Green Sun Princes; in the default setting, Kimbery is the only other Yozi who has done so. The Yozis have tasked the Green Sun Princes with transforming Creation into a mirror of Malfeas, which they believe will break their bonds and reverse their disfiguring imprisonment. They call this effort the Reclamation.\n\nThe Green Sun Princes are few in number; only 50 infernal essences are controlled by the Yozis, and they do not yet have the ability to corrupt further Solar Essences as the Deathlords can. On the other hand, the Infernals have the full resources of the demon realm at their disposal, along with numerous Yozi cults which already exist in creation. It is implied that despite currently revelling in their power, the vast majority of Infernal Exalted will grow disillusioned with the alien Yozis and their obvious insanity, and go rogue. The Infernals' Primordial power gives them the potential to grow into new Titans themselves, not bound by the same shortness of vision their current patrons possess.\n\nThree new types of playable Exalted have been announced for 3rd edition: The Liminals, the Getimians and the Exigents.\n\nThe Liminals \"stand at the border between life and death, humanity and monstrosity\". They are created when someone attempts to bring another person back from death; resurrection is explicitly impossible in Exalted, but some will still try. On occasion, this attempt draws the attention of some other power that raises the corpse to life again. The new Liminal possesses the memories of the body that she wears, but does not possess the same soul, and thus does not have the same personality. In their initial introduction at the end of Second Edition, it was mentioned that they possess an interest in severed limbs and body parts, but the full explanation for this has yet to be given. Like the Dragon-Blooded, they are divided among five aspects—Breath, Blood, Flesh, Marrow, and Soil—depending on the motives of the person who created them.\n\nThe Getimian Exalted are described as \"drawn from stillborn destinies to serve as agents in one man’s war against Heaven\". The Getimian Exaltations predate their current use, but the rogue Sidereal Exalt Rakan Thulio has employed them. The Getimians have their own will: one sample character works as a special consultant to Heaven rather than opposing it. The Getimian Exalted have Essence split into two pools, but unlike the other Exalted types, their charms interact with their separate pools in different ways; their personal pool is akin to Yin essence, while their peripheral pool is Yang. Some of their charms can only be powered by one or the other, or cause different effects depending on which one is used.\n\nThe Exigents are described by 3rd edition developer Holden Shearer as follows:\n\nAlongside the various types of Exalts found in Creation, there are also other magical creatures that use the same Essence that Exalts use to power their magical effects. The following are the most prominent types of magical beings.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDue to the terms of the Yozis' surrender, all demons can be summoned and bound.\n\n\nEssence is the mystical force which the Exalted and gods manipulate to gain their supernatural powers, as well as the energy that forms all things. Within the game, the mystical force \"Essence\" is always capitalized to distinguish from other uses of the word.\n\nThe Five Magical Materials are used to forge artifacts and weapons. Each material is associated with a type of Exalted, as well as one of the castes of Alchemical Exalted, who are partially constructed from that material. These materials are all easily enchanted, and each one resonates with a particular type of Exalted. This resonance makes any item that is both constructed from one of the magical materials and attuned to an Exalt's anima preternaturally deft and sure in that Exalt's hands. It also gives the Exalt access to the powers of any hearthstone mounted on the item.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFirst Edition Exalted hints at a sixth magical material, but it is not presented in full until the Second Edition release of Dreams of the First Age.\n\n\n\"See the list of Exalted sourcebooks for further information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46782628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46782628", "title": "Exhaustion of intellectual property rights", "text": "Exhaustion of intellectual property rights\n\nThe exhaustion of intellectual property rights constitutes one of the limits of intellectual property (IP) rights. Once a given product has been sold under the authorization of the IP owner, the reselling, rental, lending and other third party commercial uses of IP-protected goods in domestic and international markets is governed by the principle.\n\nAfter a product covered by an IP right, such as by a patent right, has been sold by the IP right owner or by others with the consent of the owner, the IP right is said to be exhausted. It can no longer be exercised by the owner. This limitation is also referred to as the exhaustion doctrine or first sale doctrine. For example, if an inventor obtains a patent on a new kind of umbrella, the inventor (or anyone else to whom he sells his patent) can legally prohibit other companies from making and selling this kind of umbrella, but can not prohibit customers who have bought this umbrella from the patent owner from reselling the umbrella to third parties. There is a \"fairly broad consensus\" throughout the world \"that this applies at least within the context of the domestic market\". This is the concept of \"national exhaustion\". However, \"[t]here is less consensus as to what extent the sale of an IP protected product abroad can exhaust the IP rights over this product in the context of domestic law.\" This is the concept of \"regional exhaustion\" or \"international exhaustion\". The rules and legal implications of the exhaustion largely differ depending on the country of importation, i.e. the national jurisdiction.\n\nThe legal concept of international exhaustion is much more controversial, and is recognized in some countries but not in others. The importation, in a country that recognizes the concept of international exhaustion, of a product sold in a foreign country with the authorization of the IP right owner cannot be prevented by the IP right owner. The Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS), an international agreement administered by the World Trade Organization (WTO), does not address the issue of exhaustion of intellectual property rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "144650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144650", "title": "Ground zero", "text": "Ground zero\n\nIn terms of nuclear explosions and other large bombs, the term \"ground zero\" (also known as \"surface zero\") describes the point on the Earth's surface closest to a detonation. In the case of an explosion above the ground, \"ground zero\" refers to the point on the ground directly below the nuclear detonation and is sometimes called the hypocenter (from Greek ὑπο- \"under-\" and center). \n\nGenerally, the term \"ground zero\" is also used in relation to earthquakes, epidemics, and other disasters to mark the point of the most severe damage or destruction. The term is distinguished from the term zero point in that the latter can also be located in the air, underground, or underwater.\n\nThe origins of the term \"ground zero\" began with the Trinity test in Jornada del Muerto desert near Socorro, New Mexico, and the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan. The Strategic Bombing Survey of the atomic attacks, released in June 1946, used the term liberally, defining it as: \"For convenience, the term 'ground zero' will be used to designate the point on the ground directly beneath the point of detonation, or 'air zero.'\" William Laurence, an embedded reporter with the Manhattan Project, reported that \"Zero\" was \"the code name given to the spot chosen for the [Trinity] test\" in 1945.\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\", citing the use of the term in a 1946 \"New York Times\" report on the destroyed city of Hiroshima, defines \"ground zero\" as \"that part of the ground situated immediately under an exploding bomb, especially an atomic one.\"\nThe term was military slang, used at the Trinity site where the weapon tower for the first nuclear weapon was at \"point zero\", and moved into general use very shortly after the end of World War II. At Hiroshima, the hypocenter of the attack was Shima Hospital, approximately away from the intended aiming point at Aioi Bridge. \n\nDuring the Cold War, The Pentagon, the headquarters of the United States Department of Defense in Arlington County, Virginia, was an assured target in the event of nuclear war. The open space in the center of the Pentagon became known informally as ground zero. A snack bar that used to be located at the center of this open space was nicknamed \"Cafe Ground Zero\".\n\nDuring the September 11, 2001 attacks, two aircraft hijacked by 10 al-Qaeda terrorists flew into the North and South Towers of the World Trade Center in New York City, causing massive damage and starting fires that caused the weakened 110-story skyscrapers to collapse. The destroyed World Trade Center site soon became known as \"ground zero.\" Rescue workers also used the phrase \"The Pile\", referring to the pile of rubble that was left after the buildings collapsed. \nEven after the site was cleaned up and construction on the new One World Trade Center and the National September 11 Memorial & Museum were well under way, the term was still frequently used to refer to the site, as when opponents of the Park51 project that was to be located two blocks away from the site labeled it the \"Ground Zero mosque.\" \n\nIn advance of the 10th anniversary of the attacks, New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg urged that the \"ground zero\" moniker be retired, saying, \"...the time has come to call those 16 acres what they are: The World Trade Center and the National September 11th Memorial and Museum.\"\n"}
{"id": "4127357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4127357", "title": "Hermitian symmetric space", "text": "Hermitian symmetric space\n\nIn mathematics, a Hermitian symmetric space is a Hermitian manifold which at every point has as an inversion symmetry preserving the Hermitian structure. First studied by Élie Cartan, they form a natural generalization of the notion of Riemannian symmetric space from real manifolds to complex manifolds.\n\nEvery Hermitian symmetric space is a homogeneous space for its isometry group and has a unique decomposition as a product of irreducible spaces and a Euclidean space. The irreducible spaces arise in pairs as a non-compact space that, as Borel showed, can be embedded as an open subspace of its compact dual space. Harish Chandra showed that each non-compact space can be realized as a bounded symmetric domain in a complex vector space. The simplest case involves the groups SU(2), SU(1,1) and their common complexification SL(2,C). In this case the non-compact space is the unit disk, a homogeneous space for SU(1,1). It is a bounded domain in the complex plane C. The one-point compactification of C, the Riemann sphere, is the dual space, a homogeneous space for SU(2) and SL(2,C).\n\nIrreducible compact Hermitian symmetric spaces are exactly the homogeneous spaces of simple compact Lie groups by maximal closed connected subgroups which contain a maximal torus and have center isomorphic to T. There is a complete classification of irreducible spaces, with four classical series, studied by Cartan, and two exceptional cases; the classification can be deduced from\nBorel–de Siebenthal theory, which classifies closed connected subgroups containing a maximal torus. Hermitian symmetric spaces appear in the theory of Jordan triple systems, several complex variables, complex geometry, automorphic forms and group representations, in particular permitting the construction of the holomorphic discrete series representations of semisimple Lie groups.\n\nLet \"H\" be a connected compact semisimple Lie group, σ an automorphism of \"H\" of order 2 and \"H\" the fixed point subgroup of σ. Let \"K\" be a closed subgroup of \"H\" lying between \"H\" and its identity component. The compact homogeneous space \"H\" / \"K\" is called a symmetric space of compact type. The Lie algebra formula_1 admits a decomposition\n\nwhere formula_3, the Lie algebra of \"K\", is the +1 eigenspace of σ and formula_4 the –1 eigenspace.\nIf formula_3 contains no simple summand of formula_1, the pair (formula_1, σ) is called an orthogonal symmetric Lie algebra of \"compact type\".\n\nAny inner product on formula_1, invariant under the adjoint representation and σ, induces a Riemannian structure on \"H\" / \"K\", with \"H\" acting by isometries. A canonical example is given by minus the Killing form. Under such an inner product, formula_3 and formula_4 are orthogonal. \"H\" / \"K\" is then a Riemannian symmetric space of compact type.\n\nThe symmetric space \"H\" / \"K\" is called a Hermitian symmetric space if it has an almost complex structure preserving the Riemannian metric. This is equivalent to the existence of a linear map \"J\" with \"J\" = −\"I\" on formula_4 which preserves the inner product and commutes with the action of \"K\".\n\nIf (formula_1,σ) is Hermitian, \"K\" has non-trivial center and the symmetry σ is inner, implemented by an element of the center of \"K\".\n\nIn fact \"J\" lies in formula_3 and exp \"tJ\" forms a one-parameter group in the center of \"K\". This follows because if \"A\", \"B\", \"C\", \"D\" lie in formula_4, then by the invariance of the inner product on formula_1\n\nReplacing \"A\" and \"B\" by \"JA\" and \"JB\", it follows that\n\nDefine a linear map δ on formula_1 by extending \"J\" to be 0 on formula_3. The last relation shows that δ is a derivation of formula_1. Since formula_1 is semisimple, δ must be an inner derivation, so that\n\nwith \"T\" in formula_3 and \"A\" in formula_4. Taking \"X\" in formula_3, it follows that \"A\" = 0 and \"T\" lies in the center of formula_3 and hence that \"K\" is non-semisimple. The symmetry σ is implemented by \"z\" = exp π\"T\" and the almost complex structure by exp π/2 \"T\".\n\nThe innerness of σ implies that \"K\" contains a maximal torus of \"H\", so has maximal rank. On the other hand, the centralizer of the subgroup generated by the torus \"S\" of elements exp \"tT\" is connected, since if \"x\" is any element in \"K\" there is a maximal torus containing \"x\" and \"S\", which lies in the centralizer. On the other hand, it contains \"K\" since \"S\" is central in \"K\" and is contained in \"K\" since \"z\" lies in \"S\". So \"K\" is the centralizer of \"S\" and hence connected. In particular \"K\" contains the center of \"H\".\n\nThe symmetric space or the pair (formula_1, σ) is said to be \"irreducible\" if the adjoint action of formula_3 (or equivalently the identity component of \"H\" or \"K\") is irreducible on formula_4. This is equivalent to the maximality of formula_3 as a subalgebra.\n\nIn fact there is a one-one correspondence between intermediate subalgebras formula_31 and \"K\"-invariant subspaces \nformula_32 of formula_4 given by\n\nAny orthogonal symmetric algebra (formula_35, σ) of Hermitian type can be decomposed as an (orthogonal) direct sum of irreducible orthogonal symmetric algebras of Hermitian type.\n\nIn fact formula_1 can be written as a direct sum of simple algebras\n\neach of which is left invariant by the automorphism σ and the complex structure \"J\", since they are both inner. The eigenspace decomposition of formula_38 coincides with its intersections with formula_3 and formula_4. So the restriction of σ to formula_38 is irreducible.\n\nThis decomposition of the orthogonal symmetric Lie algebra yields a direct product decomposition of the corresponding compact symmetric space \"H\" / \"K\" when \"H\" is simply connected. In this case the fixed point subgroup \"H\" is automatically connected. For simply connected \"H\", the symmetric space \"H\" / \"K\" is the direct product of \"H\" / \"K\" with \"H\" simply connected and simple. In the irreducible case, \"K\" is a maximal connected subgroup of \"H\". Since \"K\" acts irreducibly on formula_4 (regarded as a complex space for the complex structure defined by \"J\"), the center of \"K\" is a one-dimensional torus T, given by the operators exp \"tT\". Since each \"H\" is simply connected and \"K\" connected, the quotient \"H\"/\"K\" is simply connected.\n\nif \"H\" / \"K\" is irreducible with \"K\" non-semisimple, the compact group \"H\" must be simple and \"K\" of maximal rank. From [[Borel-de Siebenthal theory]], the involution σ is inner and \"K\" is the centralizer of its center, which is isomorphic to T. In particular \"K\" is connected. It follows that \"H\" / \"K\" is simply connected and there is a [[parabolic subgroup]] \"P\" in the [[complexification (Lie group)|complexification]] \"G\" of \"H\" such that \"H\" / \"K\" = \"G\" / \"P\". In particular there is a complex structure on \"H\" / \"K\" and the action of \"H\" is holomorphic. Since any Hermitian symmetric space is a product of irreducible spaces, the same is true in general.\n\nAt the [[Lie algebra]] level, there is a symmetric decomposition\nwhere formula_44 is a real vector space with a complex structure \"J\", whose complex dimension is given in the table. Correspondingly, there is a [[graded Lie algebra]] decomposition\nwhere formula_46 is the decomposition into +\"i\" and −\"i\" eigenspaces of \"J\" and formula_47. The Lie algebra of \"P\" is the semidirect product formula_48. The complex Lie algebras formula_49 are Abelian. Indeed, if \"U\" and \"V\" lie in formula_49, [\"U\",\"V\"] = \"J\"[\"U\",\"V\"] = [\"JU\",\"JV\"] = [±\"iU\",±\"iV\"] = –[\"U\",\"V\"], so the Lie bracket must vanish.\n\nThe complex subspaces formula_49 of formula_52 are irreducible for the action of \"K\", since \"J\" commutes with \"K\" so that each is isomorphic to formula_4 with complex structure ±\"J\". Equivalently the centre T of \"K\" acts on formula_54 by the identity representation and on formula_55 by its conjugate.\n\nThe realization of \"H\"/\"K\" as a generalized flag variety \"G\"/\"P\" is obtained by taking \"G\" as in the table (the [[complexification (Lie group)|complexification]] of \"H\") and \"P\" to be the [[parabolic subgroup]] equal to the semidirect product of \"L\", the complexification of \"K\", with the complex Abelian subgroup exp formula_54. (In the language of [[algebraic groups]], \"L\" is the [[Levi factor]] of \"P\".)\n\nAny Hermitian symmetric space of compact type is simply connected and can be written as a direct product of irreducible hermitian symmetric spaces \"H\" / \"K\" with \"H\" simple, \"K\" connected of maximal rank with center T. The irreducible ones are therefore exactly the non-semisimple cases classified by [[Borel–de Siebenthal theory]].\nAccordingly, the irreducible compact Hermitian symmetric spaces \"H\"/\"K\" are classified as follows.\n\nIn terms of the classification of compact Riemannian symmetric spaces, the Hermitian symmetric spaces are the four infinite series AIII, DIII, CI and BDI with \"p\" = 2 or \"q\" = 2, and two exceptional spaces, namely EIII and EVII.\n\nThe irreducible Hermitian symmetric spaces of compact type are all simply connected. The corresponding symmetry σ of the simply connected simple compact Lie group is inner, given by conjugation by the unique element \"S\" in \"Z\"(\"K\") / \"Z\"(\"H\") of period 2. For the classical groups, as in the table above, these symmetries are as follows:\n\n\nThe maximal parabolic subgroup \"P\" can be described explicitly in these classical cases. For AIII\n\nin SL(\"p\"+\"q\",C). \"P\"(\"p\",\"q\") is the stabilizer of a subspace of dimension \"p\" in C.\n\nThe other groups arise as fixed points of involutions. Let \"J\" be the \"n\" × \"n\" matrix with 1's on the antidiagonal and 0's elsewhere and set\n\nThen Sp(\"n\",C) is the fixed point subgroup of the involution θ(\"g\") = \"A\" (\"g\") \"A\" of SL(2\"n\",C). SO(\"n\",C) can be realised as the fixed points of ψ(\"g\") = \"B\" (\"g\") \"B\" in SL(\"n\",C) where \"B\" = \"J\". These involutions leave invariant \"P\"(\"n\",\"n\") in the cases DIII and CI and \"P\"(\"p\",2) in the case BDI. The corresponding parabolic subgroups \"P\" are obtained by taking the fixed points. The compact group \"H\" acts transitively on \"G\" / \"P\", so that \"G\" / \"P\" = \"H\" / \"K\".\n\nAs with symmetric spaces in general, each compact Hermitian symmetric space \"H\"/\"K\" has a noncompact dual \"H\"/\"K\" obtained by replacing \"H\" with the closed real Lie subgroup \"H\" of the complex Lie group \"G\" with Lie algebra\n\nWhereas the natural map from \"H\"/\"K\" to \"G\"/\"P\" is an isomorphism, the natural map from \"H\"/\"K\" to \"G\"/\"P\" is only an inclusion onto an open subset. This inclusion is called the Borel embedding after [[Armand Borel]]. In fact \"P\" ∩ \"H\" = \"K\" = \"P\" ∩ \"H\"*. The images of \"H\" and \"H\"* have the same dimension so are open. Since the image of \"H\" is compact, so closed, it follows that \"H\"/\"K\" = \"G\"/\"P\".\n\nThe polar decomposition in the complex linear group \"G\" implies the Cartan decomposition \"H\"* = \"K\" ⋅ exp formula_63 in \"H\"*.\n\nMoreover, given a maximal Abelian subalgebra formula_64 in t, \"A\" = exp formula_64 is a toral subgroup such that σ(\"a\") = \"a\" on \"A\"; and any two such formula_64's are conjugate by an element of \"K\". A similar statement holds for formula_67. Morevoer if \"A\"* = exp formula_68, then\n\nThese results are special cases of the Cartan decomposition in any Riemannian symmetric space and its dual. The geodesics emanating from the origin in the homogeneous spaces can be identified with one parameter groups with generators in formula_63 or formula_4. Similar results hold for in the compact case: \"H\"= \"K\" ⋅ exp formula_63 and \"H\" = \"KAK\".\n\nThe properties of the [[totally geodesic]] subspace \"A\" can be shown directly. \"A\" is closed because the closure of \"A\" is a toral subgroup satisfying σ(\"a\") = \"a\", so its Lie algebra lies in formula_4 and hence equals formula_64 by maximality. \"A\" can be generated topologically by a single element exp \"X\", so formula_64 is the centralizer of \"X\" in formula_4. In the \"K\"-orbit of any element of formula_4 there is an element \"Y\" such that (X,Ad \"k\" Y) is minimized at \"k\" = 1. Setting \"k\" = exp \"tT\" with \"T\" in formula_3, it follows that (\"X\",[\"T\",\"Y\"]) = 0 and hence [\"X\",\"Y\"] = 0, so that \"Y\" must lie in formula_64. Thus formula_4 is the union of the conjugates of formula_64. In particular some conjugate of \"X\" lies in any other choice of formula_64, which centralizes that conjugate; so by maximality the only possibilities are conjugates of formula_64.\nThe decompositions\n\ncan be proved directly by applying the [[slice theorem (differential geometry)|slice theorem]] for [[transformation group|compact transformation groups]] to the action of \"K\" on \"H\" / \"K\". In fact the space \"H\" / \"K\" can be identified with\n\na closed submanifold of \"H\", and the Cartan decomposition follows by showing that \"M\" is the union of the \"kAk\" for \"k\" in \"K\". Since this union is the continuous image of \"K\" × \"A\", it is compact and connected. So it suffices to show that the union is open in \"M\" and for this it is enough to show each \"a\" in \"A\" has an open neighbourhood in this union. Now by computing derivatives at 0, the union contains an open neighbourhood of 1. If \"a\" is central the union is invariant under multiplication by \"a\", so contains an open neighbourhood of \"a\". If \"a\" is not central, write \"a\" = \"b\" with \"b\" in \"A\". Then τ = Ad \"b\" − Ad \"b\" is a skew-adjoint operator on formula_1 anticommuting with σ, which can be regarded as a Z-grading operator σ on formula_1. By an [[Euler–Poincaré characteristic]] argument it follows that the superdimension of formula_1 coincides with the superdimension of the kernel of τ. In other words,\n\nwhere formula_90 and formula_91 are the subspaces fixed by Ad \"a\". Let the orthogonal complement of formula_90 in formula_3 be formula_94. Computing derivstives it follows that Ad \"e\" (\"a\" \"e\"), where \"X\" lies in formula_94 and \"Y\" in formula_91, is an open neighbourhood of \"a\" in the union. Here the terms \"a\" \"e\" lie in the union by the argument for central \"a\": indeed \"a\" is in the center of the identity component of the centralizer of \"a\" which is invariant under σ and contains \"A\".\n\nThe dimension of formula_64 is called the rank of the Hermitian symmetric space.\n\nIn the case of Hermitian symmetric spaces, Harish-Chandra gave a canonical choice for formula_64. \nThis choice of formula_64 is determined by taking a maximal torus \"T\" of \"H\" in \"K\" with Lie algebra formula_100. Since the symmetry σ is implemented by an element of \"T\" lying in the centre of \"H\", the root spaces formula_101 in formula_35 are left invariant by σ. It acts as the identity on those contained in formula_103 and minus the identity on those in formula_104.\n\nThe roots with root spaces in formula_103 \nare called compact roots and those with root spaces in formula_104 are called noncompact roots. (This terminology originates from the symmetric space of noncompact type.) If \"H\" is simple, the generator \"Z\" of the centre of \"K\" can be used to define a set of positive roots, according to the sign of α(\"Z\"). With this choice of roots formula_54 and formula_55 are the direct sum of the root spaces formula_101 over positive and negative noncompact roots α. Root vectors \"E\" can be chosen so that\n\nlie in formula_1. The simple roots α, ..., α are the indecomposable positive roots. These can be numbered so that α vanishes on the center of formula_1 for \"i\", whereas α does not. Thus α is the unique noncompact simple root and the other simple roots are compact. Any positive noncompact root then has the form β = α + \"c\" α + ⋅⋅⋅ + \"c\" α with non-negative coefficients \"c\". These corfficients lead to a [[lexicographic order]] on positive roots. The coefficient of α is always one because formula_55 is irreducible for \"K\" so is spanned by vectors obtained by successively applying the lowering operators \"E\" for simple compact roots α.\n\nTwo roots α and β are said to be strongly orthogonal if ±α ±β are not roots or zero, written α ≐ β. The highest positive root ψ is noncompact. Take ψ to be the highest noncompact positive root strongly orthogonal to ψ (for the lexicographic order). Then continue in this way taking ψ to be the highest noncompact positive root strongly orthogonal to ψ, ..., ψ until the process terminates. The corresponding vectors\n\nlie in formula_4 and commute by strong orthogonality. Their span formula_64 is Harish-Chandra's canonical maximal Abelian subalgebra. (As Sugiura later showed, having fixed \"T\", the set of strongly orthogonal roots is uniquely determined up to applying an element in the Weyl group of \"K\".)\n\nMaximality can be checked by showing that if\n\nfor all \"i\", then \"c\" = 0 for all positive noncompact roots α different from the ψ's. This follows by showing inductively that if \"c\" ≠ 0, then α is strongly orthogonal to ψ, ψ, ... a contradiction. Indeed, the above relation shows ψ + α cannot be a root; and that if ψ – α is a root, then it would necessarily have the form β – ψ. If ψ – α were negative, then α would be a higher positive root than ψ, strongly orthogonal to the ψ with \"j\" < \"i\", which is not possible; similarly if β – ψ were positive.\n\nHarish-Chandra's canonical choice of formula_64 leads to a polydisk and polysphere theorem in \"H\"*/\"K\" and \"H\"/\"K\". This result reduces the geometry to products of the prototypic example involving SL(2,C), SU(1,1) and SU(2), namely the unit disk inside the Riemann sphere.\n\nIn the case of \"H\" = SU(2) the symmetry σ is given by conjugation by the diagonal matrix with entries ±\"i\" so that\n\nThe fixed point subgroup is the maximal torus \"T\", the diagonal matrices with entries \"e\". SU(2) acts on the Riemann sphere formula_120 transitively by Möbius transformations and \"T\" is the stabilizer of 0. SL(2,C), the complexification of SU(2), also acts by Möbius transformations and the stabiliser of 0 is the subgroup \"B\" of lower triangular matrices. The noncompact subgroup SU(1,1) acts with precisely three orbits: the open unit disk |\"z\"| < 1; the unit circle \"z\" = 1; and its exterior |\"z\"| > 1. Thus\n\nwhere \"B\" and \"T\" denote the subgroups of upper triangular and diagonal matrices in SL(2,C). The middle term is the orbit of 0 under the upper unitriangular matrices\n\nNow for each root ψ there is a homomorphism of π of SU(2) into \"H\" which is compatible with the symmetries. It extends uniquely to a homomorphism of SL(2,C) into \"G\". The images of the Lie algebras for different ψ's since they are strongly orthogonal. Thus there is a homomorphism π of the direct product SU(2) into \"H\" compatible with the symmetries. It extends to a homomorphism of SL(2,C) into \"G\". The kernel of π is contained in the center (±1) of SU(2) which is fixed pointwise by the symmetry. So the image of the center under π lies in \"K\". Thus there is an embedding of the polysphere (SU(2)/T) into \"H\" / \"K\" = \"G\" / \"P\" and the polysphere contains the polydisk (SU(1,1)/T). The polysphere and polydisk are the direct product of \"r\" copies of the Riemann sphere and the unit disk. By the Cartan decompositions in SU(2) and SU(1,1), \nthe polysphere is the orbit of \"T\"\"A\" in \"H\" / \"K\" and the polydisk is the orbit of \"T\"\"A\"*, where \"T\" = π(T) ⊆ \"K\". On the other hand, \"H\" = \"KAK\" and \"H\"* = \"K\" \"A\"* \"K\".\n\nHence every element in the compact Hermitian symmetric space \"H\" / \"K\" is in the \"K\"-orbit of a point in the polysphere; and every element in the image under the Borel embedding of the noncompact Hermitian symmetric space \"H\"* / \"K\" is in the \"K\"-orbit of a point in the polydisk.\n\n\"H\"* / \"K\", the Hermitian symmetric space of noncompact type, lies in the image of formula_123, a dense open subset of \"H\" / \"K\" biholomorphic to formula_124. The corresponding domain in formula_124 is bounded. This is the Harish-Chandra embedding named after [[Harish-Chandra]]. \nIn fact Harish-Chandra showed the following properties of the space formula_126:\n\n\nIn fact formula_128 are complex Abelian groups normalised by \"K\". Moreover, formula_129 since formula_130.\n\nThis implies \"P\" ∩ \"M\" = {1}. For if \"x\" = \"e\" with \"X\" in \nformula_54 lies in \"P\", it must normalize \"M\" and hence formula_55. But if \"Y\" lies in formula_55, then\n\nso that \"X\" commutes with formula_55. But if \"X\" commutes with every noncompact root space, it must be 0, so \"x\" = 1. It follows that the multiplication map μ on \"M\" × \"P\" is injective so (1) follows. Similarly the derivative of μ at (\"x\",\"p\") is\n\nwhich is injective, so (2) follows. For the special case \"H\" = SU(2), \"H\"* = SU(1,1) and \"G\" = SL(2,C) the remaining assertions are consequences of the identification with the Riemann sphere, C and unit disk. They can be applied to the groups defined for each root ψ. By the polysphere and polydisk theorem \"H\"*/\"K\", X/\"P\" and \"H\"/\"K\" are the union of the \"K\"-translates of the polydisk, C and the polysphere. So \"H\"* lies in X, the closure of \"H\"*/\"K\" is compact in X/\"P\", which is in turn dense in \"H\"/\"K\".\n\nNote that (2) and (3) are also consequences of the fact that the image of \"X\" in \"G\"/\"P\" is that of the big cell \"B\"\"B\" in the [[Complexification (Lie group)#Gauss decomposition|Gauss decomposition]] of \"G\".\n\nUsing results on the [[restricted root system]] of the symmetric spaces \"H\"/\"K\" and \"H\"*/\"K\", \n[[Robert Hermann (mathematician)|Hermann]] showed that the image of \"H\"*/\"K\" in formula_54 is a generalized unit disk. In fact it is the [[convex set]] of \"X\" for which the [[operator norm]] of ad Im \"X\" is less than one.\n\nA bounded domain \"Ω\" in a complex vector space is said to be a bounded symmetric domain if for every \"x\" in \"Ω\", there is an involutive biholomorphism \"σ\" of \"Ω\" for which \"x\" is an isolated fixed point. The Harish-Chandra embedding exhibits every Hermitian symmetric space of noncompact type \"H\"* / \"K\" as a bounded symmetric domain. The biholomorphism group of \"H\" / \"K\" is equal to its isometry group \"H\".\n\nConversely every bounded symmetric domain arises in this way. Indeed, given a bounded symmetric domain \"Ω\", the [[Bergman kernel]] defines a [[Riemannian metric|metric]] on \"Ω\", the [[Bergman metric]], for which every biholomorphism is an isometry. This realizes \"Ω\" as a Hermitian symmetric space of noncompact type.\n\nThe irreducible bounded symmetric domains are called Cartan domains and are classified as follows.\n\nIn the classical cases (I–IV), the noncompact group can be realized by 2 × 2 block matrices\n\nacting by generalized [[Möbius transformation]]s\n\nThe polydisk theorem takes the following concrete form in the classical cases:\n\nThe noncompact group \"H\"* acts on the complex Hermitian symmetric space \"H\"/\"K\" = \"G\"/\"P\" with only finitely many orbits. The orbit structure is described in detail in . In particular the closure of the bounded domain \"H\"*/\"K\" has a unique closed orbit, which is the [[Shilov boundary]] of the domain. In general the orbits are unions of Hermitian symmetric spaces of lower dimension. The complex function theory of the domains, in particular the analogue of the [[Cauchy integral formula]]s, are described for the Cartan domains in . The closure of the bounded domain is the [[Baily–Borel compactification]] of \"H\"*/\"K\".\n\nThe boundary structure can be described using [[Cayley transform]]s. For each copy of SU(2) defined by one of the noncompact roots ψ, there is a Cayley transform \"c\" which as a Möbius transformation maps the unit disk onto the upper half plane. Given a subset \"I\" of indices of the strongly orthogonal family ψ, ..., ψ, the \"partial Cayley transform\" \"c\" is defined as the product of the \"c\"'s with \"i\" in \"I\" in the product of the groups π. Let \"G\"(\"I\") be the centralizer of this product in \"G\" and \"H\"*(\"I\") = \"H\"* ∩ \"G\"(\"I\"). Since σ leaves \"H\"*(\"I\") invariant, there is a corresponding Hermitian symmetric space \"M\" \"H\"*(\"I\")/\"H\"*(\"I\")∩\"K\" ⊂ \"H\"*/\"K\" = \"M\" . The boundary component for the subset \"I\" is the union of the \"K\"-translates of \"c\" \"M\". When \"I\" is the set of all indices, \"M\" is a single point and the boundary component is the Shilov boundary. Moreover, \"M\" is in the closure of \"M\" if and only if \"I\" ⊇ \"J\".\n\nEvery Hermitian symmetric space is a [[Kähler manifold]]. They can be defined equivalently as Riemannian symmetric spaces with a parallel complex structure with respect to which the Riemannian metric is [[Hermitian metric|Hermitian]]. The complex structure is automatically preserved by the isometry group \"H\" of the metric, and so any Hermitian symmetric space \"M\" is a homogeneous complex manifold. Some examples are [[complex vector space]]s and [[complex projective space]]s, with their usual Hermitian metrics and [[Fubini–Study metric]]s, and the complex [[unit ball]]s with suitable metrics so that they become [[Complete metric space|complete]] and Riemannian symmetric. The [[compact space|compact]] Hermitian symmetric spaces are [[projective variety|projective varieties]], and admit a strictly larger [[Lie group]] \"G\" of [[biholomorphism]]s with respect to which they are homogeneous: in fact, they are [[generalized flag manifold]]s, i.e., \"G\" is [[semisimple Lie group|semisimple]] and the stabilizer of a point is a [[parabolic subgroup]] \"P\" of \"G\". Among (complex) generalized flag manifolds \"G\"/\"P\", they are characterized as those for which the [[Nilradical of a Lie algebra|nilradical]] of the Lie algebra of \"P\" is abelian. The non-compact Hermitian symmetric spaces can be realized as bounded [[domain (mathematics)|domains]] in complex vector spaces.\n\nAlthough the classical Hermitian symmetric spaces can be constructed by ad hoc methods, [[Jordan triple system]]s, or equivalently Jordan pairs, provide a uniform algebraic means of describing all the basic properties connected with a Hermitian symmetric space of compact type and its non-compact dual. This theory is described in detail in and and summarized in . The development is in the reverse order from that using the structure theory of compact Lie groups. It starting point is the Hermitian symmetric space of noncompact type realized as a bounded symmetric domain. It can be described in terms of a [[Jordan pair]] or hermitian [[Jordan triple system]]. This Jordan algebra structure can be used to reconstruct the dual Hermitian symmetric space of compact type, including in particular all the associated Lie algebras and Lie groups.\n\nThe theory is easiest to describe when the irreducible compact Hermitian symmetric space is of tube type. In that case the space is determined by a simple real Lie algebra formula_35\nwith negative definite Killing form. It must admit an action of SU(2) which only acts via the trivial and adjoint representation, both types occurring. Since formula_35 is simple, this action is inner, so implemented by an inclusion of the Lie algebra of SU(2) in formula_35. The complexification of formula_35 decomposes as a direct sum of three eigenspaces for the diagonal matrices in SU(2). It is a three-graded complex Lie algebra, with the Weyl group element of SU(2) providing the involution. Each of the ±1 eigenspaces has the structure of a unital complex Jordan algebra explicitly arising as the complexification of a Euclidean Jordan algebra. It can be identified with the multiplicity space of the adjoint representation of SU(2) in formula_35.\n\nThe description of irreducible Hermitian symmetric spaces of tube type starts from a simple Euclidean Jordan algebra \"E\". It admits [[Jordan frame (Jordan algebra)|Jordan frames]], i.e. sets of orthogonal minimal idempotents \"e\", ..., \"e\". Any two are related by an automorphism of \"E\", so that the integer \"m\" is an invariant called the rank of \"E\". Moreover, if \"A\" is the complexification of \"E\", it has a unitary [[structure group (Jordan algebra)|structure group]]. It is a subgroup of GL(\"A\") preserving the natural complex inner product on \"A\". Any element \"a\" in \"A\" has a polar decomposition with . The spectral norm is defined by ||a|| = sup α. The associated [[bounded symmetric domain]] is just the open unit ball \"D\" in \"A\". There is a biholomorphism between \"D\" and the tube domain \"T\" = \"E\" + \"iC\" where \"C\" is the open self-dual convex cone of elements in \"E\" of the form with \"u\" an automorphism of \"E\" and α > 0. This gives two descriptions of the Hermitian symmetric space of noncompact type. There is a natural way of using [[mutation (Jordan algebra)|mutations]] of the Jordan algebra \"A\" to compactify the space \"A\". The compactification \"X\" is a complex manifold and the finite-dimensional Lie algebra formula_35 of holomorphic vector fields on \"X\" can be determined explicitly. One parameter groups of biholomorphisms can be defined such that the corresponding holomorphic vector fields span formula_35. This includes the group of all complex Möbius transformations corresponding to matrices in SL(2,C). The subgroup SU(1,1) leaves invariant the unit ball and its closure. The subgroup SL(2,R) leaves invariant the tube domain and its closure. The usual Cayley transform and its inverse, mapping the unit disk in C to the upper half plane, establishes analogous maps between \"D\" and \"T\". The polydisk corresponds to the real and complex Jordan subalgebras generated by a fixed Jordan frame. It admits a transitive action of SU(2) and this action extends to \"X\". The group \"G\" generated by the one-parameter groups of biholomorphisms acts faithfully on formula_35. The subgroup generated by the identity component \"K\" of the unitary structure group and the operators in SU(2). It defines a compact Lie group \"H\" which acts transitively on \"X\". Thus \"H\" / \"K\" is the corresponding Hermitian symmetric space of compact type. The group \"G\" can be identified with the [[complexification (Lie group)|complexification]] of \"H\". The subgroup \"H\"* leaving \"D\" invariant is a noncompact real form of \"G\". It acts transitively on \"D\" so that \"H\"* / \"K\" is the dual Hermitian symmetric space of noncompact type. The inclusions \"D\" ⊂ \"A\" ⊂ \"X\" reproduce the Borel and Harish-Chandra embeddings. The classification of Hermitian symmetric spaces of tube type reduces to that of simple Euclidean Jordan algebras. These were classified by in terms of [[Euclidean Hurwitz algebra]]s, a special type of [[composition algebra]].\n\nIn general a Hermitian symmetric space gives rise to a 3-graded Lie algebra with a period 2 conjugate linear automorphism switching the parts of degree ±1 and preserving the degree 0 part. This gives rise to the structure of a [[Jordan pair]] or hermitian [[Jordan triple system]], to which extended the theory of Jordan algebras. All irreducible Hermitian symmetric spaces can be constructed uniformly within this framework. constructed the irreducible Hermitian symmetric space of non-tube type from a simple Euclidean Jordan algebra together with a period 2 automorphism. The −1 eigenspace of the automorphism has the structure of a Jordan pair, which can be deduced from that of the larger Jordan algebra. In the non-tube type case corresponding to a [[Siegel domain]] of type II, there is no distinguished subgroup of real or complex Möbius transformations. For irreducible Hermitian symmetric spaces, tube type is characterized by the real dimension of the Shilov boundary being equal to the complex dimension of .\n\n\n\n[[Category:Differential geometry]]\n[[Category:Complex manifolds]]\n[[Category:Riemannian geometry]]\n[[Category:Lie groups]]\n[[Category:Homogeneous spaces]]"}
{"id": "22512663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22512663", "title": "Human Rights Organization of Judea and Samaria", "text": "Human Rights Organization of Judea and Samaria\n\nThe Human Rights Organization of Judea and Samaria (also Yesha Human Rights Organization () is an Israeli non-governmental organization (NGO) headed by Orit Strook.\n\nThe organization was established in 1999. Its stated goals are to defend the human and civil rights of Jewish Israelis living in the West Bank, and formerly in the Gaza Strip. The organization say that these citizens - commonly referred to as settlers - are not adequately defended by other human rights organizations it identifies as left-wing, such as B'Tselem. The organization cooperates and uses the legal advice of the .\n\nOne aspect of its activities is to report on alleged discrimination of settlers by the Israeli Police.\n"}
{"id": "54287201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54287201", "title": "Jack Posobiec", "text": "Jack Posobiec\n\nJohn Michael Posobiec III ( ; born December 14, 1985) is an American internet troll and conspiracy theorist known primarily for his controversial and pro-Donald Trump comments on Twitter. He has promoted fake news, including the debunked Pizzagate conspiracy theory that high-ranking Democratic Party officials were involved in a child sex ring. He has been retweeted by Donald Trump. As of 2018 he was working as a correspondent for One America News Network, a conservative cable news television channel.\n\nPosobiec was born and raised in Norristown, Pennsylvania to a family of Polish descent. His parents were both Democrats. He attended Kennedy-Kenrick Catholic High School and then went to college at Temple University. While at Temple he rebelled against his parents' political views, became the chairman of the Temple University College Republicans, and started a chapter of Students for Academic Freedom, an organization run by the David Horowitz Freedom Center. He also did a summer internship for Sen. Rick Santorum and volunteered for Rep. Curt Weldon's unsuccessful reelection campaign in 2006. He graduated with a double major in political science and broadcast journalism.\n\nAfter graduation Posobiec worked for the United States Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai, China. In 2008 he played a minor role in the film \"The Forbidden Kingdom\". He later worked for WPHT, a conservative talk radio station and later for the campaign of Steve Johnson in the 2010 Pennsylvania lieutenant gubernatorial election.\n\nPosobiec is a lieutenant junior grade naval intelligence officer. He served several tours in the Naval Reserves from 2010 to 2017, including a deployment at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base. In March 2017 Posobiec resigned from his Office of Naval Intelligence position, saying that his support for Trump led to a \"toxic work environment\". As of August 2017 his security clearance was suspended and under review.\n\nPosobiec describes himself as a \"Republican political operative\". He has called his recent work \"reality journalism—part investigative, part activist, part commentary\", and has said: \"I'm willing to break the fourth wall. I'm willing to walk into an anti-Trump march and start chanting anti-Clinton stuff—to make something happen, and then cover what happens.\" Will Sommer, an editor at \"The Hill\", has said Posobiec \"make[s] stuff up, relentlessly\", and that \"there's no one at that level.\"\n\n\nDuring the 2016 election, Posobiec was a special projects director of Citizens for Trump, a pro-Trump organization. \n\n\n\n\n\nFrom 2012 to 2016, Posobiec ran a blog and podcast about \"Game of Thrones\" called AngryGoTFan.\n\nPosobiec married Tanya Tay, a Belorusian, in November 2017.\n\nOn January 24, 2018, the dating app Bumble removed Posobiec from its platform, after the company was alerted and linked the profile with his Facebook account. Posobiec denied ever having a Bumble account and said he would file an identity theft complaint.\n"}
{"id": "54392627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54392627", "title": "Kuros (Company)", "text": "Kuros (Company)\n\nKuros is a for-profit company based in Austin, Texas. The company was founded in 2013 by Kuro Tawil an entrepreneur from Austin, Texas. The company designs and sells products made in Nepal, with every Kuros product sold providing pepper spray to at risk populations of women.\n\nKuro Tawil was on a solo-backpacking trip through South Western Asia in 2013, shortly after graduating from Texas State University. While traveling, he realized how large the issue of sexual violence is around the world and saw how in many developing countries the law and justice system were ineffective. Tawil realized many of these women needed a way to take their protection and their lives into their own hands, seeing the need for a realistic way for a woman to be able to defend themselves. Tawil returned home to Texas and started the conscious business Kuros, as a way to fund the distribution of pepper spray to at risk populations of women.\n\nKuros uses \"buy one, give one\" model, where for each product purchased, the company pays for a can of pepper spray to be distributed to a woman in developing countries. Kuros collaborates with non-governmental organizations around the world to facilitate the distribution of their pepper spray donations. They have distributed pepper spray in four continents, with networks in India, South Africa, El Salvador and the Philippines.\n\nIn 2015, Kuros partnered with Security Equipment Corporation, a Fenton, Missouri based manufacturer of pepper spray known for producing SABRE Red. Kuros utilizes and distributes SABRE Red in countries where available. Security Equipment Corporation released a Kuros branded pepper spray in the United States. The Kuros branded SABRE Red pepper spray won Honorable Mention at the 2016 NRHA Trade show.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3039388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3039388", "title": "List of topology topics", "text": "List of topology topics\n\nThis is a list of topology topics, by Wikipedia page. See also:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3214848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3214848", "title": "Make a mountain out of a molehill", "text": "Make a mountain out of a molehill\n\nMaking a mountain out of a molehill is an idiom referring to over-reactive, histrionic behaviour where a person makes too much of a minor issue. It seems to have come into existence in the 16th century.\n\nThe idiom is a metaphor for the common behaviour of responding disproportionately to something - usually an adverse circumstance. One who \"makes a mountain out of a molehill\" is said to be greatly exaggerating the severity of the situation. In cognitive psychology, this form of distortion is called magnification or overreacting. The phrase itself is so common that a study by psychologists found that with respect to familiarity and image value, it ranks high among the 203 common sayings they tested.\n\nSimilar idioms include 'Much ado about nothing' and 'Making a song and dance about nothing'. The meaning finds its opposite in the fable about the mountain in labour that gives birth to a mouse. In the former too much is made of little; in the latter one is led to expect much, but with too little result. The two appear to converge in William Caxton's translation of the fable (1484), where he makes of the mountain \"a hylle whiche beganne to tremble and shake by cause of the molle whiche delved it\". In other words, he mimics the meaning of the fable by turning a mountain into a molehill. It was in the context of this bringing together of the two ideas that the English idiom grew.\n\nThe earliest recorded use of the alliterative phrase making a mountain out of a molehill dates from 1548. The word for the animal involved was less than two hundred years old by then. Previous to that the mole had been known by its Old English name \"wand\", which had slowly changed to 'want'. A molehill was known as a 'wantitump', a word that continued in dialect use for centuries more. The former name of want was then replaced by \"mold(e)warp\" (meaning earth-thrower), a shortened version of which (\"molle\") began to appear in the later 14th century and the word molehill in the first half of the 15th century.\n\nThe idiom is found in Nicholas Udall's translation of \"The first tome or volume of the Paraphrase of Erasmus vpon the newe testamente\" (1548) in the statement that \"The Sophistes of Grece coulde through their copiousness make an Elephant of a flye, and a mountaine of a mollehill.\" The comparison of the elephant with a fly (\"elephantem ex musca facere\") is an old Latin proverb that Erasmus recorded in his collection of such phrases, the Adagia, European variations on which persist. The mountain and molehill seem to have been added by Udall and the phrase has continued in popular use ever since. If the idiom was not coined by Udall himself, the linguistic evidence above suggests that it cannot have been in existence long.\n"}
{"id": "44800561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44800561", "title": "Militarization of police", "text": "Militarization of police\n\nMilitarization of police refers to the use of military equipment and tactics by law enforcement officers. This includes the use of armored personnel carriers, assault rifles, submachine guns, flashbang grenades, grenade launchers, sniper rifles, and Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) teams. The militarization of law enforcement is also associated with intelligence agency-style information gathering aimed at the public and political activists, and a more aggressive style of law enforcement. Criminal justice professor Peter Kraska has defined militarization of police as \"the process whereby civilian police increasingly draw from, and pattern themselves around, the tenets of militarism and the military model.\"\n\nObservers have noted the militarizing of the policing of protests. Since the 1970s, riot police have fired at protesters using guns with rubber bullets or plastic bullets. Tear gas, which was developed by the United States Army for riot control in 1919, was widely used against protesters in the 2000s. The use of tear gas in warfare is prohibited by various international treaties that most states have signed; however, its law enforcement or military use for domestic or non-combat situations is permitted.\n\nConcerns about the militarization of police have been raised by both ends of the political spectrum in the United States, with both the right-of-center/libertarian Cato Institute and the American Civil Liberties Union voicing criticisms of the practice. The Fraternal Order of Police has spoken out in favor of equipping law enforcement officers with military equipment, on the grounds that it increases the officers' safety and enables them to protect members of the public and other first responders (e.g., firefighters and emergency medical services personnel). However, a 2017 study showed that police forces which received military equipment were more likely to have violent encounters with the public, regardless of local crime rates.\n\nCanadian legal expert Michael Spratt wrote, \"... there's no question that Canadian police sometimes look more like post-apocalyptic military mercenaries than protectors of the peace. Our police services have been acquiring more and more military toys — a dangerous trend that's gotten little in the way of critical analysis in the mainstream media.\" Growing numbers of Canadian police agencies have acquired armored vehicles in recent years. In 2010 the Ottawa Police Service bought a Lenco G3 BearCat armored personnel carrier for $340,000, which has \"half-inch-thick military steel armoured bodywork, .50 caliber-rated ballistic glass, blast-resistant floors, custom-designed gun ports and... a roof turret.\"\n\nThe G20 protests in Toronto in 2010 showed that the militarization of protest policing is not only occurring in the United States. Police in Toronto used a sound cannon, or Long Range Acoustic Device (LRAD) -- a weapon that was developed for use in conflicts in the Middle East, as well as barricades, pre-emptive arrests and riot units. According to Kevin Walby, an assistant professor of criminal justice at the University of Winnipeg, \"the more interesting aspect of the militarization of the police is actually on the strategy side\"; police are \"increasingly training with military-style tacticians, especially when it comes to situations like crowd control and, increasingly, surveillance.\"\n\nOn June 3, 2015 it was reported that \"RCMP officers have started openly carrying MP5 submachine guns on Parliament Hill as part of a visible increase to Parliament Hill security following last October's terrorist attack\" in 2014. Conservative senator Vern White, a former RCMP officer and a former Ottawa police chief states that \"...some RCMP officers guarding Parliament Hill against potential terrorist attacks should be armed with rifles similar to those carried by Canadian troops in Afghanistan [,]\" the \"...more powerful Colt C8 [which is] popular with police tactical teams and Canadian and other NATO alliance troops.\" White argues that the C8 carbines would give officers a much longer shooting range than the short-barreled MP5 submachine guns. \"The RCMP is issuing more than 2,200 C8 carbines to its officers [,]\" but the RCMP has not indicated whether the C8s will be issued to Parliament Hill officers.\n\nIn 2013 \"...Brazil saw countrywide demonstrations protesting a lack of basic services while the country was spending billions on the World Cup and the Olympics. The unprepared and overreacting police forces responded in a way that shocked the largely middle-class protesters. The police, using \"non-lethal\" weapons like pepper spray and rubber bullets while dressed from head to toe in ninja-like full battle gear, indiscriminately arrested both violent \"black bloc\" demonstrators, known for their confrontational tactics and anarchist views, along with non-violent protestors marching peacefully.\" As a result, \"...calls for de-militarization of the police—from social movements, non-governmental organizations, and even segments of the police itself—became widespread and remain one of the legacies of the World Cup.\" The Brazilian \"...Military Police today, while not officially a wing of the Armed Forces, remains an institution with a strict military hierarchy, training that retains a military ideology, and practices that frequently resemble occupying forces conquering enemy territories.\" The units that responded to the protests were Shock Police, units specialized in riot control. The Military Police is an ancillary and reserve force of the Army, under the General Inspectorate of Military Police, being that a part of Land Operations Command. But, in time of peace, the state governor act as commander-in-chief of the Police and Firefighting Corps, according to the Constitution of Brazil, article 144, 6th paragraph, where it is said that the \"Military Police and Firefighter Corps, ancillary and reserve forces of the Army, subordinate themselves, with the Civil Police, to the state and Federal District governors.\"\n\n\"Since 1999, an eight-billion-dollar programme in Colombia has seen \"the mass deployment of military troops and militarized police forces to both interdict illegal drugs and counter left-wing guerrilla groups\". This assistance \"promote[s] militarization to address organized crime\". Due to these U.S. policies, \"civilian forces... have increasingly received military training, leading to concerns over human rights violations and excessive use of force, as well as a lack of knowledge over how to deal with local protests – concerns startlingly similar to those now coming out of Ferguson, Missouri.\"\n\nIn 2016, the German police introduced a \"new special unit, BFE+\", which is designed to \"counter terror attacks.\" Criminologist Rafael Behr states that the new BFE+ \"mainly serves as a psychological reassurance for the public\", serving as a \"symbolic\" effort and a functional effort. The functional aspect is that with the BFE+, the government can use armed forces with military weapons inside Germany, an act that is \"currently banned by the German constitution\". The 250 person BFE+ will be added to the existing GSG-9 unit. Behr states that the BFE+ will be able to \"launch large-scale manhunts\", using an \"end of the policing spectrum\" which \"borders on war-like or military action.\"\n\nMexico's new national police force, the Gendarmería, is partially staffed with active duty soldiers, part of a longstanding trend towards militarization of the country's Federal Police.\n\nThe Mobile Brigade Corps (Brimob) is an Indonesian militarized police force (Paramilitary) which are often deployed for Riot control, SWAT operations, anti-terror, domestic guerrilla warfare, domestic civil hostage rescue, search and rescue, and armed conflict management especially in areas with domestic conflict, such as in Papua and Poso. It usually conducts join operations with the TNI.\n\nFollowing the Reconstruction Era (1865–1877) in the aftermath of the American Civil War (1861–1865), Congress passed the 1878 Posse Comitatus Act, in response to the allegation of civil liberties abuse under military occupation of the former Confederate States by members of the United States military during Reconstruction. Still in force, the law prohibits the United States Army and the United States Air Force (as amended in 1956) for being used as domestic law enforcement except when authorized by the President under certain circumstances; similar limitation also applies to the United States Marine Corps and the United States Navy by Department of the Navy policy. The Act does not apply to the National Guard and state defense forces while under the authority of their respective state governors nor the United States Coast Guard, which is both an armed service and a maritime law enforcement agency and is not under authority of the United States Department of Defense (which was formed in 1947 out of the United States Department of War). After the law was passed, it allowed state and local authorities to regain control of their affairs, with their police departments typically equipped with handguns, shotguns, and batons, which were suitable for law enforcement purposes.\n\nThroughout the 20th century, the United States has faced large and heavily armed criminal organizations, in which law enforcement officers were clearly outperformed. In the 1920s during the Prohibition Era and in the early 1930s during the Great Depression, criminal syndicates and individual bank robbers such as John Dillinger and Bonnie and Clyde were frequently armed with Thompson submachine guns and Browning Automatic Rifles. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), as well as police departments in cities such as Kansas City, Missouri and Kenosha, Wisconsin, began deploying automatic weapons, including the Thompson submachine gun, and armored cars in the 1920s and 1930s.\nGeorge Fletcher Chandler, a veteran of the Pancho Villa Expedition and the first Superintendent of the New York State Police, was an early advocate of law enforcement officers wearing their weapons exposed on the outside of their uniforms.\n\nDuring the late 1920s through the early 1930s, gunmen from criminal gangs in the United States began wearing bulletproof vests made from thick layers of cotton padding and cloth. These early vests could absorb the impact of handgun rounds such as .22 Long Rifle, .25 ACP, .32 S&W Long, .32 S&W, .380 ACP, .38 Special and .45 ACP traveling at speeds of up to . To overcome these vests, law enforcement agents such as the FBI began using the newer and more powerful .38 Super, and later the .357 Magnum cartridge.\n\nExperts believes that police militarization was escalated in the 1950s and 1960s, an era in which race riots were common in many U.S. cities. Some believe that the seeming success of officers armed with military-style weapons and deployed to curtail the 1965 Watts Riots, a six-day race riot sparked by conflicts with the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) that killed 34 people, gave way to the trend of arming and equipping law enforcement officers with battlefield weapons. Joy Rohde, a professor at the University of Michigan's Ford School of Public Policy, has published research indicating that \"militarization is a mindset...is a tendency to see the world through the lens of national security, a tendency to exaggerate existing threats.\" Rohde traces \"the origins of modern militarized policing\" to the Cold War-era anti-communist paranoia, and the idea that domestic civil rights activists were similar to foreign enemies, as manifested in activities such as the CIA's Operation CHAOS.\n\nThings have changed over the last 100 years and due to the rise of acts of terrorism and the easy access to high-powered weapons; special weapons and tactics teams have been implemented and are being utilized across the nation. The 1960s to 1990s, encounters with the sophisticated weapons of narcotics trafficking groups such as the Medellín Cartel and street gangs such as the Gangster Disciples, with organized, violent left-wing protesters at such events as the 1968 Democratic National Convention in Chicago and the 1999 WTO Conference in Seattle, with urban riots such as the 1965 Watts riots in Los Angeles and the 1967 Detroit Riot in Detroit led law enforcement to reconsider their standard side arms. As well, law enforcement experience with arsonists such as Earth Liberation Front (ELF), with mass shootings and/or shootouts such as the 1984 McDonald's massacre in San Ysidro and the 1986 shootout between eight FBI agents and two serial bank robbers in Miami (in which the agents were out-gunned by the robbers) and with explosive devices used by the Weather Underground, Timothy McVeigh, and Ted Kaczynski (the \"Unabomber\"), highlighted the inadequacy of many law enforcement agencies' weapons and tactics.\n\nResearchers David N. Falcone, Edward L. Wells, and Ralph A. Weisheit describe a historical separation of police models between small towns and larger cities, which tended to function differently with separate hierarchical systems supporting each. The militarization of both rural and urban law enforcement has been attributed to the United States' involvement in wars during the 20th century, and to increasingly frequent encounters with violent protesters and criminals with automatic weapons, explosives, and body armor, although some attribute the militarization to the more recent campaigns known as the War on Drugs and the War on Terror. Historian Charles A. Beard argues that cultural change during the Great Depression encouraged the militarization of law enforcement, whereas Harwood argues that the creation of SWAT teams and tactical units within law enforcement during the 1960s began such trend.\nThe 1981 Military Cooperation with Civilian Law Enforcement Agencies Act allows the U.S. military to cooperate with domestic and foreign law enforcement agencies. Operations in support of law enforcement include assistance in counter-drug operations, assistance for civil disturbances, special security operations, counter-terrorism, explosive ordnance disposal (EOD), and similar activities. Constitutional and statutory restrictions and corresponding directives and regulations limit the type of support provided in this area. This allows the U.S. military to give law enforcement agencies access to its military bases and its military equipment. The legislation was promoted during the Presidency of Ronald Reagan in the context of the War on drugs, and is considered a part of a general trend towards the militarization of police. The Act is cited in the 1992 essay \"The Origins of the American Military Coup of 2012\" as having set a precedent that the author, a United States Air Force officer, considered dangerous.\n\nThe 1997 North Hollywood shootout had a profound effect on law enforcement agencies. Local patrol officers at the time were typically armed with their standard issue 9×19mm or .38 Special pistols, with some having a 12-gauge shotgun available in their cars. The North Hollywood bank robbers carried fully automatic AK-47-style weapons with high capacity drum magazines and ammunition capable of penetrating vehicles and police Kevlar vests. With these weapons, two bank robbers fired approximately 1,100 rounds at officers and civilians before being killed. The robbers wore body armor which successfully protected them from bullets and shotgun pellets fired by the responding patrolmen. Police noted that the service pistols carried by the first responding officers had insufficient range and relatively poor accuracy, although a SWAT team eventually arrived with sufficient firepower. The ineffectiveness of the standard police patrol pistols and shotguns in penetrating the robbers' body armor led to a trend in the United States toward arming selected police officers, not just SWAT teams, with heavier firepower such as semi-automatic 5.56×45mm NATO AR-15 type rifles. SWAT teams, whose close quarters battle weaponry usually consisted of submachine guns that fired pistol cartridges such as the Heckler & Koch MP5, began supplementing them with AR-15 type rifles and carbines.\n\nSeven months after the incident, the Department of Defense gave 600 surplus M16s to the LAPD, which were issued to each patrol sergeant; LAPD patrol vehicles now carry AR-15s as standard issue, with bullet-resistant Kevlar plating in their doors as well. As a result of this incident, the LAPD authorized its officers to carry .45 ACP caliber semiautomatic pistols as duty sidearms, specifically the Smith & Wesson Models 4506 and 4566. Prior to 1997, only LAPD SWAT officers were authorized to carry .45 ACP caliber pistols, specifically the Model 1911A1 .45 ACP semiautomatic pistol.\n\nThe 1033 program was created by the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 1997 as part of the U.S. Government's Defense Logistics Agency Disposition Services (DLA) to transfer excess military equipment to law enforcement agencies.\n, 8,000 local law enforcement agencies participate in the reutilization program that has transferred $5.1 billion in military hardware from the United States Department of Defense to local American law enforcement agencies since 1997. Police departments have obtained surplus aircraft, bayonets, tactical armored vehicles, weapons, including grenade launchers, and watercraft.\n\nUnder the Fourth Amendment, law enforcement officers must receive written permission from a court of law, or otherwise qualified magistrate, to lawfully search and seize evidence while investigating criminal activity. Following the September 11 attacks, the 2001 Patriot Act gave law enforcement officers permission to search a home or business without the owner's or the occupant's consent or knowledge, amongst other provisions, if terrorist activities were suspected. The Act was criticized for its perceived violation of civil liberties and has generated a great deal of controversy since its enactment. In \"United States v. Antoine Jones\", the court found that increased monitoring of suspects caused by the Patriot Act directly put the suspects' constitutional rights in jeopardy. For a time, the Act allowed for agents to undertake \"sneak and peek\" searches. Critics such as the ACLU strongly criticized the law for violating the Fourth Amendment.\n\nOn May 18, 2015, President Barack Obama announced limits on the types of military equipment which can be transferred to police departments and the implementation of training programs to assure the appropriate use of other items. The military can no longer transfer some weapons, such as grenade launchers, weaponized vehicles, and bayonets to police. Obama stated that \"We've seen how militarized gear can sometimes give people a feeling like it's an occupying force as opposed to a force that's part of the community that's protecting them and serving them...So we're going to prohibit equipment made for the battlefield that is not appropriate for local police departments.\"\n\nIn response to Obama's announcement, the United States' largest police union, the Fraternal Order of Police, reacted negatively, pledging to push back against the new restrictions, and accusing the administration of politicizing officers' safety. The executive director of the FOP, James Pasco, stated that his group \"...(would) be at (their) most aggressive in asserting the need for officer safety and officer rights in any police changes that are to be effected\", and objected to a requirement that would require police departments to obtain permission from city governments to acquire certain equipment, including riot batons, helmets and shields, through federal programs. Pasco stated \"We need to only look back to Baltimore (the location of the 2015 protests following the death of Freddie Gray) to see what happens when officers are sent out ill-equipped in a disturbance situation...[;] Because you don't like the optics (of militarization), you can't send police officers out to be hurt or killed.\"\n\nIn July 2016, the Obama Administration announced that it would revisit the 2015 ban on some types of military equipment for police forces, and begin a process of case-by-case review.\n\nOn August 28, 2017 U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced the lifting of restrictions on the transfer of military equipment to law enforcement agencies. Sessions said during his announcement that the Trump administration would not \"put superficial concerns above public safety\".\n\nSome prominent Americans have argued that police militarization is required to respond to an alleged \"war on police\" that exists in the U.S.: Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick stated \"There's A War On Cops\", New York Police Chief Bratton warned of a \"war on cops\" and similar statements have been made by Donald Trump, Ted Cruz, and Scott Walker. Radley Balko calls these claims \"fact-free fear mongering\"; he states that \"...2015 is on pace to see 35 felonious killings of police officers. If that pace holds, this year would end with the second lowest number of murdered cops in decades.\" as well as \"...not only are fewer people killing police officers, fewer people are trying to harm them.\"\n\nOn Monday, May 13, 1985, Philadelphia police attempted to clear a building occupied by MOVE black liberation activists and execute arrest warrants. This led to an armed standoff with police, who lobbed tear gas canisters at the building. The police said that MOVE members fired at them; a gunfight with semi-automatic and automatic firearms ensued. Commissioner Sambor ordered that the compound be bombed. From a Pennsylvania State Police helicopter, Philadelphia Police Lt. Frank Powell proceeded to drop two one-pound bombs (which the police referred to as \"entry devices\") made of FBI-supplied water gel explosive, a dynamite substitute, targeting a fortified, bunker-like cubicle on the roof of the house.\n\nThe resulting explosions ignited a fire which spread and eventually destroyed approximately 65 nearby houses. Eleven people (John Africa, five other adults, and five children aged 7 to 13) died in the resulting fire, and more than 250 people in the neighborhood were left homeless. Ramona Africa, one of the two survivors, said that police fired at those trying to escape.\n\nIn 1992, there was a deadly confrontation and a 12-day siege at Ruby Ridge in northern Idaho between Randy Weaver, his family and his friend Kevin Harris, and agents of the United States Marshals Service (USMS) and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). USMS and FBI agents were armed with M16s and sniper rifles, and they used an armored personnel carrier. It resulted in the deaths of two Weaver's son Sammy, his wife Vicki, and Deputy U.S. Marshal William Francis Degan. At the subsequent federal criminal trial of Weaver and Harris, Weaver's attorney Gerry Spence made accusations of \"criminal wrongdoing\" against every agency involved in the incident: the FBI, USMS, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (BATFE), and the United States Attorney's Office (USAO) for Idaho. At the completion of the trial, the Department of Justice's Office of Professional Responsibility formed a Ruby Ridge Task Force to investigate Spence's charges. The 1994 Task Force report was released in redacted form by Lexis Counsel Connect and raised questions about the conduct and policy of all the agencies. Public outcry over Ruby Ridge led to the Senate Subcommittee on Terrorism, Technology and Government Information holding 14 days of hearings and issuing a report calling for reforms in federal law enforcement to prevent a repeat of Ruby Ridge and to restore public confidence in federal law enforcement.\n\nIn 1993, FBI and BATFE agents used armored vehicles and tanks and attack helicopters during the siege of the Branch Davidian community in Waco, Texas. The FBI's arms included .50 caliber (12.7 mm) rifles and M728 Combat Engineer Vehicles, which are based on an M60A1 Patton main battle tank chassis. The FBI also launched CS grenade fire from M79 grenade launchers and fired two military M651 rounds at the Branch Davidian site. 40mm munitions recovered by the Texas Rangers at Waco included dozens of plastic Ferret Model SGA-400 Liquid CS rounds, two metal M651 military pyrotechnic tear gas rounds, two metal NICO Pyrotechnik Sound & Flash grenades, and parachute illumination flares. The Army Tech Manual for the M651 warns that it can penetrate 3/4\" plywood at 200 meters and the \"projectile may explode upon target impact.\"\n\nIn 2005, the Maryland State Police (MSP) began entering the names and personal information of death penalty opponents and anti-war protesters into a database used to track terrorists.\n\nIn the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans in 2005, employees of the private security firm Blackwater patrolled the city with automatic weapons. \"When asked what authority they were operating under,\" journalist Jeremy Scahill reported, \"one guy said, 'We're on contract with the Department of Homeland Security.'\" Local news station WDSU mentioned reports of police officers claiming to have summarily executed looters.\n\nOn August 25, 2008, the Denver Police Department (DPD) were accused of making mass, indiscriminate arrests of almost 100 protesters at the Democratic National Convention. In 2011, the city of Denver, Colorado agreed to pay a $200,000 settlement and to improve its crowd control training and policies.\n\nIn February 2010, the Minneapolis Police Department (MPD) raided the apartment of Rickia Russell, breaching the door and throwing in a flashbang grenade, as part of a search for drugs. At the time, Russell was eating dinner with her boyfriend and the exploding grenade gave her burns to her head and calves. No drugs were found in Russell's apartment and the Minneapolis City Council agreed to pay $1 million in damages. In January 2011, Rogelio Serrato in Greenfield, California, died of smoke inhalation after a flashbang grenade launched by the SWAT team of the Greenfield Police Department (GPD) ignited a fire in his home.\n\nIn May 2011, the Pima County Sheriff's department killed Marine and Iraq war veteran Jose Guerena, when they entered his home while serving a search warrant related to a marijuana smuggling investigation. They fired 71 shots into his home, while his wife and 4-year-old child were inside, and found no drugs nor anything illegal. The departments involved paid a $3.4 million settlement.\n\nReferring to the 2011 Occupy Wall Street protests in New York City, Glen Greenwald wrote, \"The police response was so excessive, and so clearly modeled after battlefield tactics, that there was no doubt that deterring domestic dissent is one of the primary aims of police militarization.\"\n\nThe Oakland Police Department (OPD) used excessive force while breaking up Occupy Oakland demonstrations in 2011. Several protesters successfully sued the city of Oakland, California for their injuries; Scott Olsen was severely injured after being hit in the head with a police projectile and was awarded $4.5 million. The city paid $1.17 million to a group of protesters, and $645,000 to Kayvan Sabeghi, who was clubbed by police.\nOn May 28, 2014, a SWAT team looking for drugs in a Cornelia, Georgia home threw a flashbang grenade into the house. The grenade landed in the playpen of a 19-month-old baby boy, and the detonation severely burned and mutilated the baby's face.\n\nIn late 2014, concerns about the militarization of police arose after the shooting of Michael Brown occurred on , 2014, in Ferguson, Missouri, a suburb of . The display of military gear by area police agencies dealing with the protests received significant criticism from the media and politicians. There were concerns over insensitivity, tactics and a militarized response. In recent years, the use of military equipment and tactics for community policing and for public order policing has become more widespread. Lawmakers have begun to discuss the topic.\n\nThe drift toward militarization concerns police officers and police policy analysts themselves. U.S. community policing grew out of the Peelian Principles of the London Metropolitan Police which emphasizes the relationship between the police and the community they serve. Police academy education patterned after a military boot camp, military-type battle dress uniforms and black color by itself may produce aggression, as do the missions named wars on crime, on drugs, and on terrorism.\n\nIn a 2013 piece in the newsletter of the DOJ's Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS), COPS Senior Policy Analyst Karl Bickel warned that police militarization could seriously impair community-oriented policing. Bickel wrote that accelerating militarization was likely to alienate police relationship with the community, and pointed to a variety of factors that contribute to militarization, including the growth of SWAT; the increase prevalence of dark-colored military-style battle dress uniforms for patrol officers (which research suggests has a psychological effect of increasing aggression in the wearer), and \"warrior-like\" stress training in policing training, which fosters an \"us versus them\" approach.\n\nA report by The Marshall Project looking at data from the early 2010s investigated the mindset of \"guardian\" versus \"warrior\" by calculating the rate of complaints for excessive use of force against police officers who had served in the military versus police officers in general. It found higher rates for veterans in Boston (28% vs. 17%) and Miami (14% vs. 11%), but found no difference for Massachusetts State Police.\n\nA national survey in August 2016 by the Pew Research Center found police officers who had served in the military were more likely to have fired their weapon while doing police work (32% vs. 26%).\n\nThe ACLU has stated that local police use these \"wartime weapons in everyday policing, especially to fight the wasteful and failed drug war, which has unfairly targeted people of color.\" Travis Irvine from \"The Huffington Post\" referred to how \"local police forces now roll tank-like vehicles through our streets.\" Dave Pruett from \"The Huffington Post\" raised concerns about \"Military Humvees, still in camouflage and mounted with machine guns, in the hands of municipal police [and] SWAT teams of police in full riot gear, bristling with automatic weapons.\" Former \"...Seattle Police Chief Norm Stamper published an essay arguing that the current epidemic of police brutality is a reflection of the militarization...of our urban police forces, the result of years of the \"war on drugs\" and the \"war on terror.\" Senator Rand Paul has proposed a demilitarization of U.S. police departments, stating that \"The images and scenes we continue to see in Ferguson resemble war more than traditional police action.\"\n\nChuck Canterbury, the president of the Fraternal Order of Police, argued that the equipment received from the federal government had been properly de-militarized, and that it was being used to protect civilians from violent crime. He further stated that the use of the equipment by law enforcement was necessary to protect civilians, since mass shootings have taken place across the United States, even in small towns. Responding to claims that law enforcement officers were being given tanks, Canterbury argued that the vehicles being used by law enforcement were not armed, and that they were being used across the United States to protect other officers.\n\nOn March 23, 2015, a Department of Justice investigation into use of deadly force by the Philadelphia Police Department in the period from 2007-2013 found that the way officers are trained may be a contributing factor to excessive use of deadly force. The report found that a) many officers have the mistaken assumption that being \"in fear of their life\" is justification for the use of deadly force, but fear should not be a factor - it's a reasonable belief that deadly force is necessary to avoid death or serious injury; b) instruction about policies on the use of force is confusing; c) most training scenarios end in some type of use of force and officers are rarely, if ever, trained how to resolve confrontations peacefully; d) 80% of suspects shot by police were black - black suspects were also more than twice as likely to be shot due to a \"threat perception failure\"; and e) no consistent procedure was in place for shooting investigations, no audio or video recordings of officer interviews were being made, and officers are often interviewed months after the incidents.\n\nIn a report released in June 2015, Amnesty International alleged that the United States does not comply with the UN Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials.\n\nIn a January 2017 report Cato Institute criminal justice policy analyst Adam Bates argues that in the United States, \"an increasingly militarized domestic police force\" is characterized by \"mission creep [that] has not been limited to weapons and tactics. What the War on Drugs has done for police militarization, the War on Terror is now doing for police intelligence gathering, and the privacy of millions of Americans is at risk.\"\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union has raised concerns about military involvement in surveillance of peaceful protesters. The ACLU pointed, for example, to U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) issuance of Threat and Local Observation Notices (TALON) depicting Veterans for Peace and other anti-war groups as \"terrorist threats.\" The ACLU also raised concerns about military involvement in \"fusion centers.\"\n\nThe federal Posse Comitatus Act of 1878 forbids the U.S. military from conducting domestic law enforcement activities, embodying \"the traditional American principle of separating civilian and military authority.\" There have been exceptions made, however: in 1981, Congress enacted legislation allowing military involvement in drug interdiction at U.S. borders, and eight years later \"designated the Department of Defense as the 'single lead agency' in drug interdiction efforts.\" In the late 1990s, following the Oklahoma City bombing, there were proposals to further limit the act to allow military participation in law enforcement activities in chemical/biological weapon and terrorism cases. These anti-terrorism proposals were criticized by some commentators on the basis that they were a threat to civil liberties. Writers such as U.S. Air Force officer Charles J. Dunlap, Jr. critiqued proposals to use the military for internal security, on the basis that \"No one should suffer the illusion that military forces could ever execute the laws with the same sensitivity to civil liberties as regular police forces.\" Dunlap argued that \"the central imperatives of military service\" was \"destroying targets and undermining enemy command and control\"—a skill that did not necessary carry over into intelligence-gathering and investigation. Under this view, \"a successful policization of the armed forces may well render it incapable of defeating authentic external military threats.\"\n\nThe accelerating militarization of regular law enforcement during the War on Drugs and post-September 11 War on Terror, however, prompted some commentators to express alarm at the blurring of the distinction between civil and military functions, and the potential to erode constraints on governmental power in times of perceived crisis. A 2010 paper published in the journal \"Armed Forces & Society\" examined \"role convergence, that is, evidence that significant segments of police operations in the United States have taken on military characteristics; and evidence indicating that many U.S. military initiatives have taken on policing characteristics.\" It concluded that \"for individual citizens and for society as a whole, at least one aspect of role convergence—the militarization of the police—is potentially troublesome. If this convergence results in the police adopting not only military-type tactics and procedures but also military attitudes and orientations, the convergence may seriously threaten traditional civil rights and liberties.\"\n\nA 2014 report by the American Civil Liberties Union, \"War Comes Home: The Excessive Militarization of American Policing\", concluded that \"American policing has become unnecessarily and dangerously militarized...,\" citing an increase in the use in unnecessarily aggressive SWAT raids, \"tactics designed for the battlefield\"; and military equipment such as armored personnel carriers, flashbang grenades, and battering rams, as well as a lack of transparency and oversight. Writers such as Ilya Shapiro have argued that military leads to \"extreme constitutional violations.\"\n\nPeter Kraska, a criminal justice professor at Eastern Kentucky University, found that the prevalence of SWAT teams, among police agencies serving populations of at least 50,000 people, doubled from the mid-1980s to the late-1990s, rising to 89% of police agencies by the end of this time period. Among smaller police agencies (covering areas with between 25,000 and 50,000 people), the proportion with SWAT teams rose from 20% in the mid-198-s to 80% in the mid-2000s. Kraska states that: \"When people refer to the militarization of police, it's not in a pejorative or judgmental sense.Contemporary police agencies have moved significantly along a continuum culturally, materially, operationally, while using a Navy SEALs model. All of those are clear indications that they're moving away from a civilian model of policing.\"\n\nA 2014 ACLU report, \"War Comes Home: The Excessive Militarization of American Policing\", concluded that \"American policing has become unnecessarily and dangerously militarized...\" The report examined 818 uses of SWAT teams by more than 20 law enforcement agencies in 11 U.S. states from the period of July 2010 to October 2013. Military-style tactics used by such teams include nighttime raids, use of battering rams, use of flashbangs, overwhelming displays of force, and the wearing of helmets and masks.\n\nThe use of SWAT teams became especially common for drug searches. The ACLU study found that 62% of SWAT deployments were for drug raids, and that 79% involved raids on private homes; the study found that only \"7% fell into those categories for which the technique was originally intended, such as hostage situations or barricades.\" In some cases, civilians, including infants, were killed or injured due to police use of force in military style raids. In other cases, residents of affected neighborhoods reported experiencing psychological trauma as a result of militaristic law-enforcement tactics. The use of force and military-style equipment during such raids prompted criticism, particularly from civil libertarians such as Radley Balko, who wrote on the topic in his book \"Rise of the Warrior Cop: The Militarization of America's Police Forces\".\n\nThe Chicago Police Department (CPD) have been accused of operating a secret \"black site\" in Homan Square where suspects were held without being booked and registered and where they could not be found by their attorneys or families. Suspects were allegedly shackled and beaten.\n\nFrom 1997 to 2016, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) has gone to court to challenge policing practices in more than 24 cities in order to protect the civil rights of the public.\n\nThe Obama administration made a broad push police reform. In 2015, the Task Force for 21st Century Policing recommended restricting federal transfers of military surplus equipment, such as grenade launchers and armored vehicles, from the Defense Department to law enforcement agencies via the 1033 program. President Obama implemented the recommendations by in Executive Order 13688, in what observers saw as a bid to shift police sway from \"away from creeping militarization and toward community policing.\" The Trump administration signaled a dramatic policy shift, with Donald Trump pledging during the campaign to reinstate the entire 1033 program. In 2017, the Trump administration announced it will reinstate the program.\n\nSWAT (Special Weapons and Tactics) teams are law enforcement units in the United States that use specialized or military equipment and tactics. First created in the 1960s for riot control or violent confrontations with criminals, the number and usage of SWAT teams increased in the 1980s and 1990s during the War on Drugs, and in the aftermath of the September 11 attacks. In the United States today, SWAT teams are deployed 50,000-80,000 times every year, 80% of the time in order to serve search warrants, most often for narcotics. SWAT teams are increasingly equipped with military-type hardware and are trained to deploy against threats of terrorism, for crowd control, and in situations beyond the capabilities of ordinary law enforcement, sometimes deemed \"high-risk.\" Other countries have developed their own paramilitary police units (PPU)s that are also described as or compared to SWAT police forces. SWAT units are often equipped with specialized firearms including submachine guns, assault rifles, breaching shotguns, sniper rifles, riot control agents, and stun grenades. They have specialized equipment including heavy body armor, ballistic shields, entry tools, armored vehicles, advanced night vision optics, and motion detectors for covertly determining the positions of hostages or hostage takers, inside enclosed structures.\n\nThe increased use of SWAT teams is a hallmark of increased police militarization. The Cato Institute's Radley Balko wrote that during the 1970s, there were about 300 SWAT raids a year and as of 2005 there were 40,000 a year. SWAT teams being used for gambling crackdowns and serving a search warrant are routine in some places, like Fairfax, VA.\"There has been a more than 1400% increase in the amount of SWAT deployments between 1980 and 2000, according to estimates...by Eastern Kentucky University professor Peter Kraska.\" Balko states that in 2007, \"...a Dallas SWAT team raided a Veterans [organization's]... charity poker games. In 2010, a team of heavily armed Orange County, Florida, sheriff's deputies raided several barbershops, holding barbers and customers at gunpoint while they turned the shops inside out. Of the 37 people arrested, 34 were taken in for \"barbering without a license.\" The Orlando barbershop raids were subsequently challenged in court, and in 2014, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit ruled that it violated \"clearly established Fourth Amendment rights\" for the government to conduct \"a run-of-the-mill administrative inspection as though it is a criminal raid.\"\n\nThe ACLU has stated that \"... heavily armed SWAT teams are raiding people's homes in the middle of the night, often just to search for drugs\", causing people to \"needlessly di[e] during these raids,\" in which neighborhoods are turned into \"warzones\".\n\nLaw enforcement snipers, commonly called police snipers, and military snipers differ in many ways, including their areas of operation and tactics. A police sharpshooter is part of a police operation and usually takes part in relatively short missions. Police forces typically deploy such sharpshooters in hostage scenarios. This differs from a military sniper, who operates as part of a larger army, engaged in warfare. Sometimes as part of a SWAT team, police snipers are deployed alongside negotiators and an assault team trained for close quarters combat. As policemen, they are trained to shoot only as a last resort, when there is a direct threat to life; the police sharpshooter has a well-known rule: \"Be prepared to take a life to save a life.\" Police snipers typically operate at much shorter ranges than military snipers, generally under and sometimes even less than . Both types of snipers do make difficult shots under pressure, and often perform one-shot kills.\nPolice units that are unequipped for tactical operations may rely on a specialized SWAT team, which may have a dedicated sniper. Police snipers placed in vantage points, such as high buildings, can provide security for events. In one high-profile incident, Mike Plumb, a SWAT sniper in Columbus, Ohio, prevented a suicide by shooting a revolver out of the individual's hand, leaving him unharmed.\nThe need for specialized training for police sharpshooters was made apparent in 1972 during the Munich massacre when the German police could not deploy specialized personnel or equipment during the standoff at the airport in the closing phase of the crisis, and consequently all of the Israeli hostages were killed. While the German army did have snipers in 1972, the use of snipers of the German army in the scenario was impossible due to the German constitution's explicit prohibition of the use of the military in domestic matters. This lack of police trained snipers was later addressed with the founding of the specialized police counter-terrorist unit GSG 9, which subsequently became a widely copied model for a police special forces unit.\n\nIn September 2015, a San Bernardino Sheriff's Department sniper shot a suspect in a fast-moving car from a helicopter. The suspect leapt from his car and died on the side of the road, but his vehicle continued forward, striking another vehicle and critically injuring three civilians.\n\nObservers have noted the militarizing of the policing of protests. Riot police are police who are organized, deployed, trained or equipped to confront crowds, protests or riots. Riot police may be regular police who act in the role of riot police in particular situations or they may be separate units organized within or in parallel to regular police forces. Riot police are used in a variety of different situations and for a variety of different purposes. They may be employed to control riots as their name suggests, to disperse or control crowds, to maintain public order or discourage criminality, or to protect people or property. In some cases, riot police may function as a tool of political repression by violently breaking up protests and suppressing dissent or civil disobedience.\n\nRiot police often use special equipment termed riot gear to help protect themselves and attack protesters or rioters. Riot gear typically includes personal armor, batons, riot shields and riot helmets. Many riot police teams also deploy specialized less-than-lethal weapons, such as pepper spray, tear gas, rifles that fire rubber bullets or plastic bullets, flashbang grenades, and Long Range Acoustic Devices (sound cannons).\n\nThe police tactics used during the 2001 Quebec City protest serve as an example of the approaches used by North American riot police. During the protest, riot police fired tear gas canisters, water cannon, and rubber bullets, dispersing large groupings of protesters both violent and peaceful, including teach-ins and teams of medics providing first aid to other protesters. Other tactical interventions aimed at arresting various perceived movement leaders. Allegedly, \"plastic bullets were being used increasingly [by riot police], and from guns with laser sights so at night people could often see that the cops were intentionally aiming for heads or groins.\"\n\nSome U.S. SWAT teams have adopted the AR-15 carbine. Some U.S. police departments are using the M4 carbine, which will replace the M16 as the main U.S. Army combat assault rifle. \"After the North Hollywood shootout in 1997, the Department of Defense gave 600 surplus M16 assault rifles to LAPD, which were issued to each patrol sergeant. Various U.S. SWAT teams are armed with the Heckler & Koch MP5, a submachine gun.\n\nU.S. law enforcement agencies such as the Coast Guard, the New York City Police Department (NYPD), and the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police (PBP) use the Barrett M82. Police use the M82 to breach barriers, because the large-calibre .50 BMG round it fires will penetrate most commercial brick walls and concrete blocks. It is an anti-materiel rifle designated as a Special Application Sniper Rifle and designed for use against military equipment (materiel), rather than against other combatants (\"anti-personnel\"). It is used by many armies around the world both in regular forces and in special forces units. As it uses a .50 BMG round, this has led to some debates in the U.S. armed forces about the legality of using such a large anti-materiel rifle round against a human. There have been persistent reports that some U.S. military personnel believe that the use of .50 BMG in a direct antipersonnel role is prohibited by the laws of war. However, Maj. Hays Parks states that \"No treaty language exists (either generally or specifically) to support a limitation on [the use of .50 BMG] against personnel, and its widespread, longstanding use in this role suggests that such antipersonnel employment is the customary practice of nations.\"\n\nIn October 2011, a Downey, California police officer shot an unarmed suspect named Michael Nida, who had been mistaken for an armed robber, in the back with a submachine gun, killing him.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2014, almost 5,000 M16 rifles were distributed to local and state law enforcement agencies in Ohio under the surplus military equipment program.\n\nA 2017 study found a statistically significant positive relationship between militarization of the police and fatalities from officer-involved shootings.\n\nThe 2015 video game \"Battlefield Hardline\" depicts a militarized police, and it depicts both police and criminals wielding military equipment including rifles, machine guns and grenade launchers. The developer's insistence on \"fantasy\" while meticulously recreating LA areas and loosely basing crimes in the game on real-life crimes has subsequently been criticized.\n\nThe documentary \"Peace Officer\", which is about police militarization in the U.S., won the 2015 Documentary Feature Competition Grand Jury award at the South by Southwest Film Festival.\n\nThe documentary \"Do Not Resist\" by Craig Atkinson is also critical of the phenomenon of police militarization, as exemplified by law enforcement training courses taught by retired military officer Dave Grossman, who tells police officers, \"You are men and women of violence.\" The film won the award for \"Best Documentary Feature\" at the Tribeca Film Festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "747527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=747527", "title": "Mudita", "text": "Mudita\n\nMuditā (Pāli and Sanskrit: मुदिता) means joy; especially sympathetic or vicarious joy.\n\nAlso: the pleasure that comes from delighting in other people's well-being.\n\nThe traditional paradigmatic example of this mind-state is the attitude of a parent observing a growing child's accomplishments and successes. Mudita should not be confused with pride, as a person feeling mudita may not have any interest or direct income from the accomplishments of the other. Mudita is a pure joy unadulterated by self-interest.\n\nWhen we can be happy of the joys other beings feel, it is called mudita; the opposite word is invidia.\n\nMudita meditation is used to cultivate appreciative joy at the success and good fortune of others.\n\nBuddhist teachers interpret mudita more broadly as an inner spring of infinite joy that is available to everyone at all times, regardless of circumstances.\n\"\"The more deeply one drinks of this spring,\" \n\"the more securely one becomes in one's own abundant happiness,\" \n\"the more bountiful it becomes to relish the joy of other people.\"\"\n\nJoy is also traditionally regarded as the most difficult to cultivate of the four immeasurables (\"brahmavihārā\": also \"four sublime attitudes\"). To show joy is to celebrate happiness and achievement in others even when we are facing tragedy ourselves.\n\nAccording to Buddhist teacher Ayya Khema showing joy towards sadistic pleasure is wrong. Here there should instead be compassion (\"karuṇā\").\n\nThe \"far enemies\" of joy are jealousy (envy) and greed, mind-states in obvious opposition. Joy's \"near enemy,\" the quality which superficially resembles joy but is in fact more subtly in opposition to it, is exhilaration, described as a grasping at pleasant experience out of a sense of insufficiency or lack.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40799158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40799158", "title": "National Equality Standard", "text": "National Equality Standard\n\nThe National Equality Standard (NES) is an initiative created by EY. It was developed for business, by business and sets clear Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) criteria against which companies are assessed. \n\nThe NES has been developed and sponsored by EY, supported by the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC), the Home Office and the Confederation of British Industry and developed in partnership with the following UK and global companies:\n\n\nThe NES was launched in May 2013 at the British Museum and since then many businesses have signed up and the Standard has received significant media attention and news coverage.\n\nArun Batra is the CEO and founder of the NES. Prior to his position at EY he ran the Mayor's 'Diversity Works' programme in London and has recently been recognised as one of Britain’s most influential Asians for leading the establishment of the NES.\n\nArun is supported by Harry Gaskell, the managing partner of EYs UK & Ireland advisory Practice and Head of D&I, and the Chair of the Employers Network for Equality & Inclusion (enei).Sir David Bell has been appointed as the Non-executive Chair of the steering committee that drives the development of the NES.\n\nThrough the NES, companies are subjected to a robust EDI assessment which has been devised by the NES Board and EY. The NES Assessment provides companies with a comprehensive quality review of their EDI policies and practices, identifies areas for improvement and provides implementation recommendations. Each company that undertakes the NES undergoes a robust assessment against a defined set of criteria across 7 standards. Trained NES Assessors review documentation, ensure legal compliance, conduct comprehensive interviews and sample staff through in-depth surveys. The outcome is detailed in a comprehensive report.\n\nThe objectives of the NES are to provide an assessment tool which:\n\nThe feedback from those undertaking assessments has been positive; Tina Southall, Director, Diversity and Inclusion at Vodafone Group Services described the assessment process in an interview:\n"}
{"id": "8525985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8525985", "title": "Net.flag", "text": "Net.flag\n\nnet.flag is a work of internet art created in 2002 by Mark Napier. Along with \"Unfolding Object\" by John Simon, it was commissioned by the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York City, and was among the first works of internet art to enter the permanent collection of a major museum.\n\n\"net.flag\" is an interactive work hosted on the Guggenheim museum's website. The site contains images of all the national flags of the world. Each flag is broken into its respective components, that are categorized according to several broadly descriptive terms. Users may pick and choose from a menu of these components to form a new flag, which they may then save to the site. In addition, the project features a browsable history, through which users may look over past creations that have been titled and saved by the previous participants.\n\n\"net.flag\" creates a virtual territory. A limited language of visual symbols and the actions of thousands of visitors create an ongoing micro-drama about ownership, territory, control and personal identity in a post-national world.\n\nNapier has described \"net.flag\" as \"an emblem for the Internet as a new territory,\" and is inspired in part by \"Mr. Lee's Greater Hong Kong\", the franchise nation depicted in Snow Crash by Neal Stephenson. In Stephenson's world geographical borders are re-mapped into mobile, modular elements.\n"}
{"id": "8723393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8723393", "title": "Oneiric (film theory)", "text": "Oneiric (film theory)\n\nIn film theory, the term oneiric (; \"pertaining to dreams\") refers to the depiction of dream-like states or to the use of the metaphor of a dream or the dream-state in the analysis of a film.\n\nEarly film theorists such as Ricciotto Canudo (1879–1923) and Jean Epstein (1897–1953) argued that films had a dreamlike quality. Raymond Bellour and Guy Rosolato have made psychoanalytical analogies between films and the dream state, claiming films as having a \"latent\" content that can be psychoanalyzed as if it were a dream. states that before the 1930s, psychoanalysts \"primarily attempted to apply the interpretative schemata found in Sigmund Freud's \"Interpretation of Dreams\" to films.\"\n\nAuthor Douglas Fowler surmises that \"images arising from dreams are the well spring of all our efforts to give enduring form and meaning to the urgencies within,\" seeing this as the reason why \"the deep structure of human narrative is conceived in dreams and the genesis of all myth is dreams.\" Author Robert Eberwein describes the filmic experience as the merging of a viewer's consciousness with the projected consciousness of the screen's subject, a process whereby the viewer's prior experiences with dreaming \"help to create a sense of oneness\" with cinema, causing the gap between viewer and what is being viewed to narrow. Under this theory, no matter what is being shown on the screen — whether the literal representation of a character dreaming, or the fictional characters of a story going on about their fictional lives — the very process of viewing film itself \"replicates activities associated with the oneiric experience.\"\n\nFilms and dreams are also connected in psychological analysis by examining the relationship between the cinema screening process and the spectator (who is perceived as passive). Roland Barthes, a French literary critic and semiotician, described film spectators as being in a \"para-oneiric\" state, feeling \"sleepy and drowsy as if they had just woken up\" when a film ends. Similarly, the French surrealist André Breton argues that film viewers enter a state between being \"awake and falling asleep\", what French filmmaker René Clair called a \"dreamlike state\". Edgar Morin's \"Le cinéma ou l'homme imaginaire\" (1956) and Jean Mitry's first volume of \"Esthétique et psychologie du cinéma\" (1963) also discuss the connection between films and the dream state.\n\nFilmmakers described as using oneiric or dreamlike elements in their films include Sergei Parajanov (e.g., \"Shadows of Forgotten Ancestors\"), David Lynch (e.g., \"Twin Peaks\", \"Mulholland Drive\"), Andrei Tarkovsky (e.g. \"Andrei Rublev\" and \"Solaris\"), Stan Brakhage (e.g., \"Dog Star Man\"), Michelangelo Antonioni (e.g. \"The Passenger\"), Jaromil Jireš (e.g., \"Valerie and Her Week of Wonders\"), Krzysztof Kieslowski (e.g. \"The Double Life of Veronique\"), Federico Fellini (e.g., \"Amarcord\"), Ingmar Bergman (e.g., \"Wild Strawberries\"), Jean Cocteau (e.g., \"Orphic Trilogy\"), Raúl Ruiz (e.g., \"City of Pirates\"), Edgar G. Ulmer (e.g., \"The Black Cat\"), Jacques Tourneur (e.g., \"I Walked With a Zombie\"), Maya Deren, Wojciech Has, and Kenneth Anger.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "159822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159822", "title": "Party discipline", "text": "Party discipline\n\nParty discipline is the ability of a parliamentary group of a political party to get its members to support the policies of their party leadership. In liberal democracies, it usually refers to the control that party leaders have over their caucus members in the legislature. Party discipline is important for all systems of government that allow parties to hold political power because it determines the degree to which the governmental infrastructure will be affected by legitimate political processes.\n\nBreaking party discipline in parliamentary votes can result in a number of penalties such as not being promoted to a cabinet position, and losing other perks of elected office like travel. Disagreement with the party caucus may be so strong that they leave the party to join another parliamentary caucus or become an independent, which is known as crossing the floor. With party discipline, there is an unwritten rule that pressures parliamentarians to compromise their beliefs if they conflict with the decisions made by the rest of the party.\n\nIn many political systems, a member of each party is officially designated or elected as a \"whip\", whose role it is to enforce party discipline.\n\nThe term has a somewhat different meaning in Marxist–Leninist political systems such as the People's Republic of China. In this case it refers to administrative sanctions such as fines or expulsion that the Communist Party can impose on its members for actions such as corruption or disagreeing with the party.\n\nOther examples of even stronger party discipline include the French Section of the Workers' International and the French Communist Party.\n\nParty discipline tends to be strong in countries using the Westminster system, such as the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and India, in which a vote by the legislature against the government is understood, by convention, to cause the government to \"collapse\". Thus, it is rare for members to vote against the wishes of their party. Party leaders in such governments often have the authority to expel members of the party who violate the party line.\n\nIn countries such as New Zealand, which use the mixed member proportionality system of voting, party discipline tends to be high. That is especially true for list MPs, who do not represent an electorate. If they do not vote the party line, they risk losing their seat.\n\nWeak party discipline is usually more frequent in parties of notables and elite parties than in populist parties. The centrist Radical-Socialist Party and the right-wing parties during the French Third Republic (1871–1940) all had no party discipline.\n\nIn the United States, the modern Democratic Party and Republican Party both have weak party discipline, but that varies somewhat between states. That is aptly illustrated by the vote on the federal Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act, in which the only senator to vote against overriding President Barack Obama's veto was the retiring Democratic minority leader Harry Reid.\n"}
{"id": "20045233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20045233", "title": "Passions (philosophy)", "text": "Passions (philosophy)\n\nIn philosophy and religion the passions are the instinctive, emotional, primitive drives in a human being (including, for example, lust, anger, aggression and jealousy) which a human being must restrain, channel, develop and sublimate in order to be possessed of wisdom. Passions in religion and philosophy have a different connotation from the popular concept of passion which is generally seen as a positive emotion. The philosophical notion of passion, in contrast, is identified with innate or biologically driven emotional states regarded in ancient philosophies and the great religions as being the basis for deadly sins and seen as leading to various social and spiritual ills such as unstable relationships, broken marriages, lack of social integration, psychological disorders and other problems. In the philosophical tradition of the west passion is often placed in opposition to reason. Reason is advocated in the control of passion, something seen as desirable and necessary for the development of a mature, civilized human being. This is achieved by the cultivation of virtue. Four virtues in particular have long been seen as of especial value in this regard.\n\nThe majority of philosophies and religions advocate at the very least tempering the passions to keep them within acceptable bounds. However most of the great religions recommend both the restraint and the transformation of the passions to the point where they no longer arise. This is true of Christianity, Jainism, Buddhism, Islam and Hinduism. The institution of the monastery within various religions is a means by which human beings may temporarily or permanently seclude themselves from circumstances exacerbating the arising of passion and provide a supportive environment for doing spiritual work.\n\nContemporary philosopher Roberto Mangabeira Unger has developed a view of the passions that disassociates them from human nature, and instead gives them a formless life that serve in our noninstrumental dealings with each other. Rather than the guiding force behind our relations with the world, they organize and are organized around the need and danger that is at the heart of our relations with each other. In this way, Unger rejects the traditional view of the passions as something counter to reason and which are associated with certain expressions, rather he sees them at the service of reason and their expression formed within certain contexts.\n\nThe subject of the passions has long been a consideration in Western philosophy. According to European philosopher Michel Meyer, they have aroused harsh judgments as the representation of a force of excess and lawlessness in humanity that produces troubling, confusing paradoxes. Meyer sees philosophers as having treated the passions as a given expression of human nature, leaving the question of whether the passions \"torture people because it blinds them, or, on the contrary, does it permit them to apprehend who and what we really are?\"\n\nThe seventeenth century Dutch philosopher Spinoza contrasted \"action\" with \"passion,\" as well as the state of being \"active\" with the state of being \"passive.\" A passion, in his view, happened when external events affect us partially such that we have confused ideas about these events and their causes. A \"passive\" state is when we experience an emotion which Spinoza regarded as a \"passivity of the soul.\" The body's power is increased or diminished. Emotions are bodily changes plus ideas about these changes which can help or hurt a human. It happens when the bodily changes we experience are caused primarily by external forces or by a mix of external and internal forces. Spinoza argued that it was much better for the individual himself to be the only adequate cause of bodily changes, and to act based on an adequate understanding of causes-and-effects with ideas of these changes logically related to each other and to reality. When this happened the person is \"active,\" and Spinoza described the ideas as adequate. But most of the time, this does not happen, and Spinoza, along with Freud, saw emotions as more powerful than reason. Spinoza tried to live the life of reason which he advocated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36606973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36606973", "title": "Plastic Principle", "text": "Plastic Principle\n\nThe Plastic Principle is an idea introduced into Western thought by the English philosopher Ralph Cudworth (1617–1689) to explain the function of nature and life in the face of both the mechanism and materialism of the Enlightenment. It is a dynamic functional power that contains all of natural law, and is both sustentative and generative, organizing matter according to Platonic Ideas, that is, archetypes that lie beyond the physical realm coming from the Mind of God or Deity, the ground of Being.\n\nThe role of nature was one faced by philosophers in the Age of Reason or Enlightenment. The prevailing view was either that of the Church of a personal deity intervening in his creation, producing miracles, or an ancient pantheism (atheism relative to theism) – deity pervading all things and existing in all things. However, the \"ideas of an all-embracing providential care of the world and of one universal vital force capable of organizing the world from within.\" presented difficulties for philosophers of a spiritual as well as materialistic bent.\n\nThe Cartesian idea of nature as mechanical, and Hobbes' materialistic views were countered by the English philosopher, Ralph Cudworth (1617–1689), who, in his \"True intellectual system of the universe\" (1678), addressing the tension between theism and atheism, took both the Stoic idea of Divine Reason poured into the world, and the Platonic idea of the world soul (\"anima mundi\") to posit a power that was polaric – \"either as a ruling but separate mind or as an informing vital principle – either nous hypercosmios or nous enkosmios.\n\nCudworth was a member of the Cambridge Platonists, a group of English seventeenth-century thinkers associated with the University of Cambridge who were stimulated by Plato's teachings but also were aware or and influenced by Descartes, Hobbes, Bacon, Boyle and Spinoza. The other important philosopher of this group was Henry More (1614–1687). More held that spiritual substance or mind controlled inert matter. Out of his correspondence with Descartes, he developed the idea that everything, whether material or non, had extension, an example of the latter being space, which is infinite (Newton) and which then is correlative to the idea of God (set out in his Enchiridion metaphysicum 1667). In developing this idea, More also introduced a causal agent between God and substance, or Nature in his Hylarchic Principle, derived from Plato's \"anima mundi\" or world soul, and the Stoic's pneuma, which encapsulates the laws of nature, both for inert and vital nature, and involves a sympathetic resonance between soul (\"psyche\") and \"soma\".\n\nLike More, Cudworth put forward the idea of 'the Plastick Life of Nature', a formative principle that contains both substance and the laws of motion, as well as a nisus or direction that accounts for design and goal in the natural world. He was stimulated by the Cartesian idea of the mind as self-consciousness to see God as consciousness. He first analysed four forms of atheism from ancient times to present, and showed that all misunderstood the principle of life and knowledge, which involved unsentient activity and self-consciousness.\n\nAll of the atheistic approaches posted nature as unconscious, which for Cudworth was ontologically unsupportable, as a principle that was supposed to be the ultimate source of life and meaning could only be itself self-conscious and knowledgeable, that is, rational, otherwise creation or nature degenerates into inert matter set in motion by random external forces (Coleridge's 'chance whirlings of unproductive particles'). Cudworth saw nature as a vegetative power endowed with plastic (forming) and spermatic (generative) forces, but one with Mind, or a self-conscious knowledge. This idea would later emerge in the Romantic period in German science as Blumenbach's \"Bildungstreib\" (generative power) and the \"Lebenskraft\" (or \"Bildungskraft\").\n\nThe essence of atheism for Cudworth was the view that matter was self-active and self-sufficient, whereas for Cudworth the plastic power was unsentient and under the direct control of the universal Mind or \"Logos\". For him atheism, whether mechanical or material could not solve the \"phenomenon of nature.\" Henry More argued that atheism made each substance independent and self-acting such that it 'deified' matter. Cudworth argued that materialism/mechanism reduced \"substance to a corporeal entity, its activity to causal determinism, and each single thing to fleeting appearances in a system dominated by material necessity.\"\n\nCudworth had the idea of a general plastic nature of the world, containing natural laws to keep all of nature, inert and vital in orderly motion, and particular plastic natures in particular entities, which serve as 'Inward Principles' of growth and motion, but ascribes it to the Platonic tradition:\nFurther, Cudsworth's plastic principle was also a functional polarity. As he wrote:\n\nAs another historian notes in conclusion, \"Cudworth’s theory of plastic natures is offered as an alternative to the interpretation of all of nature as either governed by blind chance, or, on his understanding of the Malebranchean view, as micro-managed by God.\"\n\nCudworth's plastic principle also involves a theory of mind that is active, that is, God or the Supreme Mind is \"the spermatic reason\" which gives rise to individual mind and reason. Human mind can also create, and has access to spiritual or super-sensible 'Ideas' in the Platonic sense. Cudworth challenged Hobbesian determinism in arguing that will is not distinct from reason, but a power to act that is internal, and therefore, the voluntary will function involves self-determination, not external compulsion, though we have the power to act either in accordance with God's will or not. Cudworth's 'hegemonikon' (taken from Stoicism) is a function within the soul that combines the higher functions of the soul (voluntary will and reason) on the one hand with the lower animal functions (instinct), and also constitutes the whole person, thus bridging the Cartesian dualism of body and soul or \"psyche\" and \"soma\". This idea provided the basis for a concept of self-awareness and identity of an individual that is self-directed and autonomous, an idea that anticipates John Locke.\n\nLocke examined how man came to knowledge via stimulus (rather than seeing ideas as inherent), which approach led to his idea of the 'thinking' mind, which is both receptive and pro-active. The first involves receiving sensations ('simple ideas') and the second by reflection – \"observation of its own inner operations\" (inner sense which leads to complex ideas), with the second activity acting upon the first. Thought is set in motion by outer stimuli which 'simple ideas' are taken up by the mind's self-activity, an \"active power\" such that the outer world can only be real-ized as action (natural cause) by the activity of consciousness. Locke also took the issue of life as lying not in substance but in the capacity of the self for consciousness, to be able to organize (associate) disparate events, that is to participate life by means of the sense experiences, which have the capacity to produce every kind of experience in consciousness. These ideas of Locke were taken over by Fichte and influenced German Romantic science and medicine. (See Romantic medicine and Brunonian system of medicine).\nThomas Reid and his \"Common Sense\" philosophy, was also influenced by Cudworth, taking his influence into the Scottish Enlightenment.\n\nBerkeley later developed the idea of a plastic life principle with his idea of an 'aether' or 'aetherial medium' that causes 'vibrations' that animate all living beings. For Berkeley, it is the very nature of this medium that generates the 'attractions' of entities to each other.\n\nBerkeley meant this 'aether' to supplant Newton's gravity as the cause of motion (neither seeing the polarity involved between two forces, as Cudworth had in his plastic principle). However, in Berkeley's conception, aether is both the movement of spirit and the motion of nature.\n\nBoth Cudworth's views and those of Berkeley were taken up by Coleridge in his metaphor of the eolian harp in his 'Effusion XXXV' as one commentator noted: \"what we see in the first manuscript is the articulation of Cudworth’s principle of plastic nature, which is then transformed in the published version into a Berkeleyan expression of the causal agency of motion performed by God’s immanent activity.\"\n\nCudworth's idea of the plastic principle and that of mind will also be taken up in a new way in the idea of emergent evolution.\n"}
{"id": "171435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171435", "title": "Plot device", "text": "Plot device\n\nA plot device, or plot mechanism, is any technique in a narrative used to move the plot forward. A contrived or arbitrary plot device may annoy or confuse the reader, causing a loss of the suspension of disbelief. However a well-crafted plot device, or one that emerges naturally from the setting or characters of the story, may be entirely accepted, or may even be unnoticed by the audience.\n\nMany stories, especially in the fantasy genre, feature an object or objects with some great power. Often what drives the plot is the hero's need to find the object and use it for good, before the villain can use it for evil, or if the object has been broken by the villains, to retrieve each piece that must be gathered from each antagonist to restore it, or, if the object itself is evil, to destroy it. In some cases destroying the object will lead to the destruction of the villain. In the Indiana Jones film series, Jones is always on the hunt for some mystical artifact. In \"Raiders of the Lost Ark\", he is trying to retrieve the Ark of the Covenant; in \"Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade\", Jones is on a search for the Holy Grail. This plot device is also used in the \"Arabian Nights\" tale of \"The City of Brass,\" in which a group of travelers on an archaeological expedition journeys across the Sahara to find a brass vessel that Solomon once used to trap a jinn.\n\nSeveral books in the Harry Potter series orient around a certain object. In \"Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone\", Harry believes there is a magical stone in Hogwarts with special powers. Lord Voldemort needs this stone to bring back his body, and Harry looks for the stone first to prevent Voldemort's return.\n\nThe One Ring from J. R. R. Tolkien's novel, \"The Lord of the Rings\" has been labeled a plot device, since the quest to destroy it drives the entire plot of the novel. However, as Nick Lowe puts it: \"Tolkien, on the whole, gets away with the trick by minimizing the arbitrariness of the ring's plot-power and putting more stress than his imitators on the way the ring's power moulds the character of its wielder and vice-versa.\"\n\nA MacGuffin is a term, popularized by film director Alfred Hitchcock, referring to a plot device wherein a character pursues an object, though the object's actual nature is not important to the story. Another object would work just as well if the characters treated it with the same importance. Regarding the MacGuffin, Alfred Hitchcock stated, \"In crook stories it is almost always the necklace and in spy stories it is most always the papers.\" This contrasts with, for example, the One Ring (from The Lord of the Rings), whose very nature is essential to the entire story.\n\nMacGuffins are sometimes referred to as \"plot coupons\" (especially if multiple ones are required) as the protagonist only needs to \"collect enough plot coupons and trade them in for a dénouement\". The term was coined by Nick Lowe.\n\nThe term \"deus ex machina\" is used to refer to a narrative ending in which an improbable event is used to resolve all problematic situations and bring the story to a (generally happy) conclusion.\n\nThe Latin phrase \"deus ex machina\" has its origins in the conventions of Greek tragedy, and refers to situations in which a mechane (crane) was used to lower actors playing a god or gods onto the stage at the end of a play.\n\nThe Greek tragedian Euripides is notorious for using this plot device as a means to resolve a hopeless situation. For example, in Euripides' play \"Alcestis\", the eponymous heroine agrees to give up her own life to Death in exchange for sparing the life of her husband, Admetus. In doing so, however, she imposes upon him a series of extreme promises. Admetus is torn between choosing death or choosing to obey these unreasonable restrictions. In the end, though, Heracles shows up and seizes Alcestis from Death, restoring her to life and freeing Admetus from the promises. Another example of a \"deus ex machina\" is Gandalf in \"The Hobbit\". With the help of seemingly limitless magical capabilities, he rescues the other main characters from all sorts of troubles. The first person known to have criticized the device was Aristotle in his \"Poetics\", where he argued that the resolution of a plot must arise internally, following from previous action of the play.\n\nA shoulder angel is a plot device used for either dramatic or humorous effect in animation and comic strips (and occasionally in live-action television). The angel represents conscience and is often accompanied by a shoulder devil representing temptation. They are handy for easily showing inner conflict of a character. Usually, the angel is depicted on (or hovering near) the right shoulder and the devil or demon on the left, as the left side traditionally represents dishonesty or impurity (see Negative associations of left-handedness in language). The Shoulder Angel and Shoulder Devil are both derived from the concept of the id, ego and super-ego in Psychoanalysis, with the person in the center of the dispute being the ego between the super-ego Angel and the id Devil.\n\nThe function of a red herring is to divert the audience's attention away from something significant. Red herrings are very common plot devices in mystery, horror, and crime stories. The typical example is in whodunits, in which facts are presented so that the audience is tricked into thinking that a given character is the murderer, when it is actually another character.\n\nA \"plot voucher\", as defined by Nick Lowe, is an object given to a character (especially to the protagonist) before they encounter an obstacle that requires the use of the object. An example of a plot voucher is a gift received by a character, which later impedes a deadly bullet.\n\n"}
{"id": "26599382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26599382", "title": "Priestley space", "text": "Priestley space\n\nIn mathematics, a Priestley space is an ordered topological space with special properties. Priestley spaces are named after Hilary Priestley who introduced and investigated them. Priestley spaces play a fundamental role in the study of distributive lattices. In particular, there is a duality (\"Priestley duality\") between the category of Priestley spaces and the category of bounded distributive lattices.\n\nA \"Priestley space\" is an \"ordered topological space\" , i. e. a set equipped with a partial order and a topology , satisfying \nthe following two conditions:\n\n\n\nIt follows that for each Priestley space , the topological space is a Stone space; that is, it is a compact Hausdorff zero-dimensional space.\n\nSome further useful properties of Priestley spaces are listed below.\n\nLet be a Priestley space.\n\nA Priestley morphism from a Priestley space to another Priestley space is a map which is continuous and order-preserving.\n\nLet Pries denote the category of Priestley spaces and Priestley morphisms.\n\nPriestley spaces are closely related to spectral spaces. For a Priestley space , let denote the collection of all open up-sets of . Similarly, let denote the collection of all open down-sets of .\n\nTheorem:\nIf is a Priestley space, then both and are spectral spaces.\n\nConversely, given a spectral space , let denote the patch topology on ; that is, the topology generated by the subbasis consisting of compact open subsets of and their complements. Let also denote the specialization order of .\n\nTheorem:\nIf is a spectral space, then is a Priestley space.\n\nIn fact, this correspondence between Priestley spaces and spectral spaces is functorial and yields an isomorphism between Pries and the category Spec of spectral spaces and spectral maps.\n\nPriestley spaces are also closely related to bitopological spaces.\n\nTheorem:\nIf is a Priestley space, then is a pairwise Stone space. Conversely, if is a pairwise Stone space, then is a Priestley space, where is the join of and and is the specialization order of .\n\nThe correspondence between Priestley spaces and pairwise Stone spaces is functorial and yields an isomorphism between the category Pries of Priestley spaces and Priestley morphisms and the category PStone of pairwise Stone spaces and bi-continuous maps.\n\nThus, one has the following isomorphisms of categories:\n\nOne of the main consequences of the duality theory for distributive lattices is that each of these categories is dually equivalent to the category of bounded distributive lattices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "457210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=457210", "title": "Pure mathematics", "text": "Pure mathematics\n\nBroadly speaking, pure mathematics is mathematics that studies entirely abstract concepts. This has been a recognizable category of mathematical activity from the 19th century onwards, at variance with the trend towards meeting the needs of navigation, astronomy, physics, economics, engineering, and so on.\n\nAnother view is that pure mathematics is \"not necessarily\" applied mathematics: it is possible to study abstract entities with respect to their intrinsic nature and not be concerned with how they manifest in the real world. Even though the pure and applied viewpoints are distinct philosophical positions, in practice there is much overlap in the activity of pure and applied mathematicians.\n\nTo develop accurate models for describing the real world, many applied mathematicians draw on tools and techniques that are often considered to be \"pure\" mathematics. On the other hand, many pure mathematicians draw on natural and social phenomena as inspiration for their abstract research.\n\nAncient Greek mathematicians were among the earliest to make a distinction between pure and applied mathematics. Plato helped to create the gap between \"arithmetic\", now called number theory, and \"logistic\", now called arithmetic. Plato regarded logistic (arithmetic) as appropriate for businessmen and men of war who \"must learn the art of numbers or [they] will not know how to array [their] troops\" and arithmetic (number theory) as appropriate for philosophers \"because [they have] to arise out of the sea of change and lay hold of true being.\" Euclid of Alexandria, when asked by one of his students of what use was the study of geometry, asked his slave to give the student threepence, \"since he must make gain of what he learns.\" The Greek mathematician Apollonius of Perga was asked about the usefulness of some of his theorems in Book IV of \"Conics\" to which he proudly asserted,\nThey are worthy of acceptance for the sake of the demonstrations themselves, in the same way as we accept many other things in mathematics for this and for no other reason.\nAnd since many of his results were not applicable to the science or engineering of his day, Apollonius further argued in the preface of the fifth book of \"Conics\" that the subject is one of those that \"...seem worthy of study for their own sake.\"\n\nThe term itself is enshrined in the full title of the Sadleirian Chair, founded (as a professorship) in the mid-nineteenth century. The idea of a separate discipline of \"pure\" mathematics may have emerged at that time. The generation of Gauss made no sweeping distinction of the kind, between \"pure\" and \"applied\". In the following years, specialisation and professionalisation (particularly in the Weierstrass approach to mathematical analysis) started to make a rift more apparent.\n\nAt the start of the twentieth century mathematicians took up the axiomatic method, strongly influenced by David Hilbert's example. The logical formulation of pure mathematics suggested by Bertrand Russell in terms of a quantifier structure of propositions seemed more and more plausible, as large parts of mathematics became axiomatised and thus subject to the simple criteria of \"rigorous proof\".\n\nIn fact in an axiomatic setting \"rigorous\" adds nothing to the idea of \"proof\". Pure mathematics, according to a view that can be ascribed to the Bourbaki group, is what is proved. Pure mathematician became a recognized vocation, achievable through training.\n\nThe case was made that pure mathematics is useful in engineering education:\n\nOne central concept in pure mathematics is the idea of generality; pure mathematics often exhibits a trend towards increased generality. Uses and advantages of generality include the following:\n\n\nGenerality's impact on intuition is both dependent on the subject and a matter of personal preference or learning style. Often generality is seen as a hindrance to intuition, although it can certainly function as an aid to it, especially when it provides analogies to material for which one already has good intuition.\n\nAs a prime example of generality, the Erlangen program involved an expansion of geometry to accommodate non-Euclidean geometries as well as the field of topology, and other forms of geometry, by viewing geometry as the study of a space together with a group of transformations. The study of numbers, called algebra at the beginning undergraduate level, extends to abstract algebra at a more advanced level; and the study of functions, called calculus at the college freshman level becomes mathematical analysis and functional analysis at a more advanced level. Each of these branches of more \"abstract\" mathematics have many sub-specialties, and there are in fact many connections between pure mathematics and applied mathematics disciplines. A steep rise in abstraction was seen mid 20th century.\n\nIn practice, however, these developments led to a sharp divergence from physics, particularly from 1950 to 1983. Later this was criticised, for example by Vladimir Arnold, as too much Hilbert, not enough Poincaré. The point does not yet seem to be settled, in that string theory pulls one way, while discrete mathematics pulls back towards proof as central.\n\nMathematicians have always had differing opinions regarding the distinction between pure and applied mathematics. \nOne of the most famous (but perhaps misunderstood) modern examples of this debate can be found in G.H. Hardy's \"A Mathematician's Apology\".\n\nIt is widely believed that Hardy considered applied mathematics to be ugly and dull. Although it is true that Hardy preferred pure mathematics, which he often compared to painting and poetry, Hardy saw the distinction between pure and applied mathematics to be simply that applied mathematics sought to express \"physical\" truth in a mathematical framework, whereas pure mathematics expressed truths that were independent of the physical world. Hardy made a separate distinction in mathematics between what he called \"real\" mathematics, \"which has permanent aesthetic value\", and \"the dull and elementary parts of mathematics\" that have practical use.\n\nHardy considered some physicists, such as Einstein, and Dirac, to be among the \"real\" mathematicians, but at the time that he was writing the \"Apology\" he also considered general relativity and quantum mechanics to be \"useless\", which allowed him to hold the opinion that only \"dull\" mathematics was useful. Moreover, Hardy briefly admitted that—just as the application of matrix theory and group theory to physics had come unexpectedly—the time may come where some kinds of beautiful, \"real\" mathematics may be useful as well.\n\nAnother insightful view is offered by Magid:\nAnalysis is concerned with the properties of functions. It deals with concepts such as continuity, limits, differentiation and integration, thus providing a rigorous foundation for the calculus of infinitesimals introduced by Newton and Leibniz in the 17th century. Real analysis studies functions of real numbers, while complex analysis extends the aforementioned concepts to functions of complex numbers. Functional analysis is a branch of analysis that studies infinite-dimensional vector spaces and views functions as points in these spaces.\n\nAbstract algebra is not to be confused with the manipulation of formulae that is covered in secondary education. It studies sets together with binary operations defined on them. Sets and their binary operations may be classified according to their properties: for instance, if an operation is associative on a set that contains an identity element and inverses for each member of the set, the set and operation is considered to be a group. Other structures include rings, fields, vector spaces and lattices.\n\nGeometry is the study of shapes and space, in particular, groups of transformations that act on spaces. For example, projective geometry is about the group of projective transformations that act on the real projective plane, whereas inversive geometry is concerned with the group of inversive transformations acting on the extended complex plane.\n\nNumber theory is the theory of the positive integers. It is based on ideas such as divisibility and congruence. Its fundamental theorem states that each positive integer has a unique prime factorization. In some ways it is the most accessible discipline in pure mathematics for the general public: for instance the Goldbach conjecture is easily stated (but is yet to be proved or disproved). In other ways it is the least accessible discipline; for example, Wiles' proof that Fermat's equation has no nontrivial solutions requires understanding automorphic forms, which though intrinsic to nature have not found a place in physics or the general public discourse.\n\nTopology is a modern extension of Geometry. Rather than focusing on the sizes of objects and their precise measurement, topology involves the properties of spaces or objects that are preserved under smooth operations such as bending or twisting (but not, for example, tearing or shearing). Topology's subfields interact with other branches of pure math: traditional topology uses ideas from analysis, such as metric spaces, and algebraic topology relies on ideas from combinatorics in addition to those of analysis.\n\nCombinatorics is a branch of mathematics concerning the study of finite or countable discrete structures. It also interacts with many other areas of mathematics. For example, additive combinatorics is related to number theory and analysis, and graph theory comes from topology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21393970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21393970", "title": "Racetrack principle", "text": "Racetrack principle\n\nIn calculus, \nthe racetrack principle describes the movement and growth of two functions in terms of their derivatives.\n\nThis principle is derived from the fact that if a horse named Frank Fleetfeet always runs faster than a horse named Greg Gooseleg, then if Frank and Greg start a race from the same place and the same time, then Frank will win. More briefly, the horse that starts fast and stays fast wins.\n\nIn symbols: \nor, substituting ≥ for > produces the theorem\nwhich can be proved in a similar way\n\nThis principle can be proven by considering the function h(x) = f(x) - g(x). If we were to take the derivative we would notice that for x>0\n\nAlso notice that h(0) = 0. Combining these observations, we can use the mean value theorem on the interval [0, x] and get\n\nSince x > 0 for the mean value theorem to work then we may conclude that f(x) - g(x) > 0. This implies f(x) > g(x).\n\nThe statement of the racetrack principle can slightly generalized as follows; \n\nas above, substituting ≥ for > produces the theorem \n\nThis generalization can be proved from the racetrack principle as follows:\n\nConsider functions formula_23 and formula_24.\nGiven that formula_1 for all formula_14, and formula_15,\n\nformula_28 for all formula_2, and formula_30, which by the proof of the racetrack principle above means formula_31 for all formula_2 so formula_4 for all formula_14.\n\nThe racetrack principle can be used to prove a lemma necessary to show that the exponential function grows faster than any power function. The lemma required is that\nfor all real x. This is obvious for x<0 but the racetrack principle is required for x>0. To see how it is used we consider the functions\nand\nNotice that f(0) = g(0) and that\nbecause the exponential function is always increasing (monotonic) so formula_1. Thus by the racetrack principle f(x)>g(x). Thus,\nfor all x>0.\n\n"}
{"id": "1432366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1432366", "title": "Ripple-down rules", "text": "Ripple-down rules\n\nRipple-down rules (RDR) are a way of approaching knowledge acquisition. Knowledge acquisition refers to the transfer of knowledge from human experts to knowledge based systems.\n\nRipple-down rules are an incremental approach to knowledge acquisition and covers a family of techniques. RDR were proposed by Compton and Jansen based on experience maintaining the expert system GARVAN-ES1 (Compton and Jansen 1988). The original GARVAN-ES1 (Horn et al. 1985) employed a knowledge acquisition process where new cases that were poorly classified by the system were added to a data base and then used to incrementally refine the knowledge base. The added cases, whose conclusions conflicted with the advice of the system were termed \"cornerstone cases\". Consequently, the data base grew iteratively with each refinement to the knowledge. The data base could then be used to test changes to the knowledge. Knowledge acquisition tools, similar to those provided by Teiresias were developed to find and help modify the conflicting rules. The tools would display the rules fired by each case and suggestions to \"edit\" the knowledge to remove the conflicts.\n\nIn the RDR framework, the human expert’s knowledge is acquired based on the current context and is added incrementally. Compton and Jansen argued that the expert's knowledge is to some extent 'made up' to justify why she was right, not to explain how she reached this right interpretation (or conclusion). The justification is based on features that are identified from the current case. The expert creates a rule for classifying cases corresponding to a particular context. This rule is unlikely to classify all cases belonging to the class. Compton and Jansen asserted that it is not possible to create a single elegant context free rule as the knowledge we communicate is a justification in a context. This implies that there is no absolute knowledge that acts as foundation of other knowledge, since knowledge is only true in a context (Compton and Jansen 1990).\n\nRipple-down rules consist of a data structure and knowledge acquisition scenarios. Human experts' knowledge is stored in the data structure. The knowledge is coded as a set of rules.\nThe process of transferring human experts's knowledge to Knowledge-based systems in RDR is explained in knowledge acquisition scenario.\n\nThere are various structures of ripple-down rules, for example single-classification ripple-down rules (SCRDR), multiple-classification ripple-down rules (MCRDR), nested ripple-down rules (NRDR) and repeat-inference multiple-classification ripple-down rules (RIMCRDR). The data structure of RDR described here is SCRDR, which is the simplest structure.\n\nThe data structure is similar to a decision tree. Each node has a rule, the format of this rule is IF cond1 AND cond2 AND ... AND condN THEN conclusion. Cond1 is a condition (boolean evaluation), for example A=1, isGreater(A,5) and average(A,\">\",average(B)). Each node has exactly two successor nodes, these successor nodes are connected to predecessor node by \"ELSE\" or \"EXCEPT\".\n\nAn example of SCRDR tree (defined recursively) is shown below:\n\nIF (OutLook = \"SUNNY\" AND Temperature = \"COOL\") THEN PLAY=\"TENNIS\"\nEXCEPT Child-1\nELSE Child-2\n\nwhere Child-1 and Child-2 are also SCRDR trees. For example, Child-1 is:\n\nIF (Wind = \"WINDY\" AND Humidity = \"HIGH\") THEN Play=\"SQUASH\"\nEXCEPT NoChild\nELSE NoChild\n\nHuman experts provide a case to the system and they add a new rule to correct the classification of a misclassified case. For example, rule Child-1 is added to correct classification of case\n[OutLook=\"SUNNY\", Temperature=\"COOL\", Wind=\"WINDY\", Humidity=\"HIGH\", ForeCast=\"STORM\", Play=\"SQUASH\"]. This case is misclassified as Play=\"TENNIS\".\n\nWhen a rule is constructed by the human experts, the conditions of this rule should be satisfied by the misclassified case and also they should NOT be satisfied by any previous cases classified correctly by the parent rule (which in this context is the first rule).\n\nBelow is a list of known implementations of RDR\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10244066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10244066", "title": "Sand Mountain blue", "text": "Sand Mountain blue\n\nThe Sand Mountain blue (\"Euphilotes pallescens arenamontana\") is a butterfly of the gossamer winged variety that is only found around the Sand Mountain Recreation Area near Fallon, Nevada. This species is one of several belonging to the \"blue\" subfamily of Lycaenidae.\n\nThese butterflies are known for their almost complete dependence upon Kearney buckwheat; eating the fallen leaves of the plant as larvae, and drinking the nectar of the flowers as adults - however, the adults occasionally feed on other plant species. Like many gossamer-winged butterflies, Sand Mountain blues have a close relationship with ants; in this case, desert carpenter ants feed on a sugary secretion of the larvae; whether the larvae also benefit or not is yet to be determined. Once the larvae metamorphose into the pupal stage, rather than remaining fixed to buckwheat plant, the chrysalis drops into the leaf litter at the base. Upon reaching adulthood, \"E. pallescens arenamontana\" typically measure anywhere between and . The species is not known to migrate, and stays within of its host plant. The lifespan of an adult Sand Mountain blue is approximately one week.\n\nThe Sand Mountain blue species, \"E. pallescens\" has been officially classified as being vulnerable, while the subspecies \"E. p. arenamontana\" has been labeled as critically imperiled, at great risk of extinction. In 2004 a petition was filed to investigate the status of the Sand Mountain blue and whether it should be placed on the endangered or threatened species lists. Currently Sand Mountain blues are referred to as \"rare\" because of their small geographical distribution around the Sand Mountain dune. In March 2007, several off-road vehicle trails were closed off in order to protect the species and its host plant from intrusion.\n\n"}
{"id": "27657798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27657798", "title": "Science of morality", "text": "Science of morality\n\nThe science of morality may refer to various forms of ethical naturalism grounding morality in rational, empirical consideration of the natural world.\n\nMoral science may refer to the consideration of what is best for, and how to maximize the flourishing of, either particular individuals or all conscious creatures. It has been proposed that \"morality\" can be appropriately defined on the basis of fundamental premises necessary for \"any\" empirical, secular, and philosophical discussion and that societies can use the methods of science to provide answers to moral questions.\nThe norms advocated by moral scientists (e.g. rights to abortion, euthanasia, and drug liberalization under certain circumstances) would be founded upon the shifting and growing collection of human understanding. Even with science's admitted degree of ignorance, and the various semantic issues, moral scientists can meaningfully discuss things as being \"almost certainly\" \"better\" or \"worse\" for promoting flourishing.\n\nUtilitarian Jeremy Bentham discussed some of the ways moral investigations are a science. He criticizes deontological ethics for failing to recognize that it needed to make the same presumptions as his science of morality to really work – whilst pursuing rules that were to be obeyed in every situation (something that worried Bentham).\n\nW.V.O. Quine advocated naturalizing epistemology by looking to natural sciences like psychology for a full explanation of knowledge. His work contributed to a resurgence of moral naturalism in the last half of the 20th century. Paul Kurtz, who believes that the careful, secular pursuit of normative rules is vital to society, coined the term \"eupraxophy\" to refer to his approach to normative ethics. Steven Pinker, Sam Harris, and Peter Singer believe that we learn what is right and wrong through reason and empirical methodology.\nMaria Ossowska thought that sociology was inextricably related to philosophical reflections on morality, including normative ethics. She proposed that science analyze: (a) existing social norms and their history, (b) the psychology of morality, and the way that individuals interact with moral matters and prescriptions, and (c) the sociology of morality.\n\nThe theory and methods of a normative science of morality are explicitly discussed in Joseph Daleiden's \"The Science of Morality: The Individual, Community, and Future Generations\" (1998). Daleiden's book, in contrast to Harris, extensively discusses the relevant philosophical literature. In \"The Moral Landscape: How Science Can Determine Human Values\", Sam Harris's goal is to show how moral truth can be backed by \"science\", or more specifically, empirical knowledge, critical thinking, philosophy, but most controversially, the scientific method.\n\nPatricia Churchland offers that, accepting Hume's is-ought problem, the use of induction from premises and definitions remains a valid way of reasoning in life and science. \nDaleiden and Leonard Carmichael warn that science is probabilistic, and that certainty is not possible. One should therefore expect that moral prescriptions will change as humans gain understanding.\n\nThe science of morality may aim to discover the best ways to motivate and shape individuals. Methods to accomplish this include instilling explicit virtues, building character strengths, and forming mental associations. These generally require some level of practical reason. James Rest suggested that abstract reasoning is also a factor in making moral judgements and emphasized that moral judgements alone do not predict moral behaviour: “Moral judgement may be closely related to advocacy behaviour, which in turn influences social institutions, which in turn creates a system of norms and sanctions that influences people’s behaviour.” Daleiden suggested that religions instill a practical sense of virtue and justice, right and wrong. They also effectively use art and myths to educate people about moral situations.\n\nHarris argues that moral science does not imply an \"Orwellian future\" with \"scientists at every door\". Instead, Harris imagines data about normative moral issues being shared in the same way as other sciences (e.g. peer-reviewed journals on medicine).\n\nDaleiden specifies that government, like any organization, should have limited power. He says \"centralization of power irrevocably in the hands of one person or an elite has always ultimately led to great evil for the human race. It was the novel experiment of democracy—a clear break with tradition—that ended the long tradition of tyranny.” He is also explicit that government should only use law to enforce the most basic, reasonable, evidence and widely supported moral norms. In other words, there are a great many moral norms that should never be the task of the government to enforce.\n\nOne author has argued that to attain a society where people are motivated by conditioned self-interest, punishment must go hand-in-hand with reward. For instance, in this line of reasoning, prison remains necessary for many perpetrators of crimes. This is so, even if libertarian free will is false. This is because punishment can still serve its purposes: it deters others from committing their own crimes, educates and reminds everyone about what the society stands for, incapacitates the criminal from doing more harm, goes some way to relieving or repaying the victim, and corrects the criminal (also see recidivism). This author argues that, at least, any prison system \"should\" be pursuing those goals, and that it is an empirical question as to what sorts of punishment realize these goals most effectively, and how well various prison systems actually serve these purposes.\n\nThe brain areas that are consistently involved when humans reason about moral issues have been investigated. The neural network underlying moral decisions overlaps with the network pertaining to representing others' intentions (i.e., theory of mind) and the network pertaining to representing others' (vicariously experienced) emotional states (i.e., empathy). This supports the notion that moral reasoning is related to both seeing things from other persons’ points of view and to grasping others’ feelings. These results provide evidence that the neural network underlying moral decisions is probably domain-global (i.e., there might be no such things as a \"moral module\" in the human brain) and might be dissociable into cognitive and affective sub-systems.\nAn essential, shared component of moral judgment involves the capacity to detect morally salient content within a given social context. Recent research implicated the salience network in this initial detection of moral content. The salience network responds to behaviorally salient events, and may be critical to modulate downstream default and frontal control network interactions in the service of complex moral reasoning and decision-making processes. This suggest that moral cognition involves both bottom-up and top-down attentional processes, mediated by discrete large-scale brain networks and their interactions.\n\nDaleiden provides examples of how science can use empirical evidence to assess the effect that specific behaviors can have on the well-being of individuals and society with regard to various moral issues. He argues that science supports decriminalization and regulation of drugs, euthanasia under some circumstances, and the permission of sexual behaviors that are not tolerated in some cultures (he cites homosexuality as an example). Daleiden further argues that in seeking to reduce human suffering, abortion should not only be permissible, but at times a moral obligation (as in the case of a mother of a potential child who would face the probability of much suffering). Like all moral claims in his book, however, Daleiden is adamant that these decisions remain grounded in, and contingent on empirical evidence.\n\nThe ideas of cultural relativity, to Daleiden, do offer some lessons: investigators must be careful not to judge a person's behaviour without understanding the environmental context. An action may be necessary and more moral once we are aware of circumstances. However, Daleiden emphasizes that this does not mean all ethical norms or systems are equally effective at promoting flourishing and he often offers the equal treatment of women as a reliably superior norm, wherever it is practiced.\n\nThe idea of a normative science of morality has met with some criticisms. Critics include physicist Sean M. Carroll, who argues that morality cannot be part of science. He and other critics cite the widely held \"fact-value distinction\", that the scientific method cannot answer \"moral\" questions, although it can describe the norms of different cultures. In contrast, moral scientists defend the position that such a division between values and scientific facts (\"moral relativism\") is not only arbitrary and illusory, but impeding progress towards taking action against documented cases of human rights violations in different cultures.\n\nStephen Jay Gould argued that science and religion occupy \"non-overlapping magisteria\". To Gould, science is concerned with questions of fact and theory, but not with meaning and morality – the magisteria of religion. In the same vein, Edward Teller proposed that politics decides what is right, whereas science decides what is true.\n\nDuring a discussion on the role that naturalism might play in professions like nursing, Philosopher Trevor Hussey calls the popular view that science is unconcerned with morality \"too simplistic\". Although his main focus in the paper is naturalism in nursing, he goes on to explain that science can, at very least, be interested in morality at a descriptive level. He even briefly entertains the idea that morality could itself be a scientific subject, writing that one \"might\" argue \"..that moral judgements are subject to the same kinds of rational, empirical examination as the rest of the world: they are a subject for science – although a difficult one. If this could be shown to be so, morality would be contained within naturalism. However, I will not assume the truth of moral realism here.\"\n"}
{"id": "34018063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34018063", "title": "Self-expansion model", "text": "Self-expansion model\n\nThe self-expansion model is based on two key principles. The first is that humans have a primary motivation to self expand. The second principle is that individuals often achieve self-expansion through close relationships which allow the inclusion of the other in the self.\n\nOne of the underlying themes of self-expansion is that individuals have a very basic motive to self-expand. Self-expansion is the desire to enhance an individual's potential efficacy. Motivational models often refer to self-efficacy as one's belief that they are competent and can achieve specific goals. However, within the self-expansion model, potential efficacy is used instead, as it only refers to obtaining resources that will make goal attainment possible. Achievement of this goal is a secondary concern. According to the self-expansion model, people increase potential efficacy by creating close relationships, which in turn, increases material and social resources, perspectives, and identities. Some examples of resources include the following: social support, possessions, information, and friendship networks. Perspectives are the way people appreciate the world and ascribe causal explanations for people's behaviors. Identities refer to a person's memories and characteristics. Self-expansion is not consciously motivated. A person does not explicitly attempt to be part of a close relationship for the sole intention of increasing physical and psychological resources.\n\nHowever, the motivation to self-expand still does influence attraction to others for a potential close relationship. Aron and Aron suggest that our attraction is broken down into two components based on Rotter's value-expectancy approach. Desirability is the perceived total amount of self-expansion possible from a potential close relationship. The second factor, probability, refers to the likelihood that the close relationship with the individual can actually be formed. It can also be conceptualized as the likelihood that self-expansion will occur. Consequently, individuals will seek a partner that has high social status and a greater number of resources. However, to maximize self-expansion, consideration is also given to how likely this person will be loyal and desires to be in the close relationship. Self expansion is when you motivate yourself and trust yourself.\n\nThe second principle of the self-expansion model is that people use close relationships to self expand by including the other in the self. The self is often described as the content or the knowledge of who we are. According to Aron and Aron, when entering a close relationship a person should perceive that the self and other should begin to overlap by including aspects of the other in the self. More specifically, when the other makes his or her resources available, this leads to the belief that these resources are now included in the self. These new resources lead to greater inclusion of the other in the self by also incorporating the other's perspectives and identities in the self.\n\nAron, Aron, Tudor and Nelson conducted several classic studies that scientifically demonstrated that we include the other in the self. In one experiment, participants were more likely to distribute money equally between the self and the close other in comparison to distributing the money between oneself and a stranger. The sharing of resources was suggestive of including the self in the other. In a second experiment, participants were more likely to remember more nouns for a stranger than a close other (one's mother). This supported the IOS phenomenon, as participants were more likely to take the perspective of the close other thus not being able to remember descriptive nouns of that person. In a final experiment participants were required to make yes/no decisions on whether certain traits belonged to themselves. Decisions on traits that were different between a participant and a close other had longer reaction times than decisions on traits that were different between a participant and a stranger. It was suggested that the increased confusion between the self and the close other was directly related to integrating the other in the self. The degree of closeness in the relationship affects the self and other reaction studies. As two individuals become closer, there is greater confusion and therefore a longer reaction time. As a result, as closeness of a relationship increases, there will be a greater inclusion of the other in the self.\n\nThe Inclusion of the Other in the Self Scale (IOS Scale) is one of the most frequently used tools to assess this phenomenon. The scale consists of seven Venn diagram-like pairs of circles that vary on the level of overlap between the self and the other. Respondents are asked to select the pair of circles that best represents their current close relationship. Several studies have showed that this measurement tool is effective in getting accurate depictions of the amount of closeness and the inclusion of the other in the self. IOS has also been assessed with the Continuous IOS, a Java-based applet suitable for online surveys that measures IOS on a continuous scale from 0-100 Participants are instructed to use their mouse to move one of the circles (typically labeled \"self\") towards the other (typically labeled \"other\") until the degree of overlap best describes the relationship in question. The IOS Scale has also been adapted to measure inclusion in other contexts, for example community connectedness via the Inclusion of Community in the Self Scale. The adaptability of IOS is broad as demonstrated by recent versions substituting target with \"X.\"\n\nThe idea of including the other in the self has been extended to include an entire ingroup in the self. An ingroup is an interdependent set of individuals with which a person identifies. The individual believes he or she is a member of this group. In fact, several academic groups have found similar findings in the me/not me reaction time paradigm at a group level. Participants showed a slower reaction time for traits that were incongruent between the self and ingroup. This was in comparison to quicker reaction times for traits that were congruent between the self and ingroup. The slow reaction times were consistent with the inclusion of the ingroup in the self claim as it suggested that the individual had included group characteristics in the self. As a result, there was difficulty recalling if a trait belong to the self or ingroup. Several researchers have examined the role of ingroup identification (i.e. a person's prolonged psychological connection to an ingroup) and self-expansion. In fact, Trop and Wright refined the meaning of ingroup identification and believed it was analogous to the inclusion of the ingroup in the self. The authors found that the degree of connectedness to the ingroup will affect confusion of self-descriptors. People who highly identified with an ingroup showed slower reaction times for self-descriptors that did not relate to the ingroup (this is consistent with previous findings). However, low ingroup identification lead to no differences in reaction times between whether or not the self-descriptors were also descriptive of the ingroup. This demonstrated that the level of identification with an ingroup can be conceptualized as the degree to which we will include the ingroup in the self.\n\nThe central motivation for including the ingroup in the self parallels the self-expansion model at the interpersonal level. The self-expansion model suggests that we are strongly motivated to expand ourselves by including the other in the self. This occurs when an individual incorporates the other's perspectives, identities and resources. Likewise, it has been proposed that including an ingroup in the self, or ingroup identification, is partly influenced by the self-expansion motive. Inclusion of the ingroup's perspectives and resources can increase one's confidence in completing a variety of goals. Thus, a group's attractiveness is often based on the potential for self-expansion. A group with higher social status and a greater amount of potential resources is more likely to be included in the self.\n\nTropp and Wright created an instrument to measure the extent that an individual includes the ingroup in the self. The Inclusion of the Ingroup in the Self Scale (ISS Scale) was based on the Inclusion of the Other in the Self Scale. Similar to the original scale, seven pairs of circles vary on the degree of overlap between the self and the particular ingroup. The scale has been well validated and the degree of inclusion of the ingroup in the self is said to capture the sense of ingroup identification.\n\nAn abundance of research focuses on the negative interactions between different groups (e.g. negative attitudes, intolerance, discrimination). However, there is sparse evidence to explain the positive aspects of intergroup relations such as reduction of prejudice. The contact hypothesis(by Gordon Allport) is one area of psychology that focuses on positive aspects of intergroup relations. The hypothesis suggests that when there is cooperation, equal status, common goals and authority support then contact between members of different groups can result in reduced negative attitudes. In addition, positive emotions between intergroup members was said to be of utmost importance as it would lead to positive attitudes which, in turn, would generalize to the entire outgroup. An outgroup is set of individuals with which the individuals does not identify. It was unclear how this attitude generalization actually happened. Recently, the process of including the outgroup in the self was used as an explanatory mechanism for this generalization.\n\nIncluding the outgroup in the self is based on the similar self-expansion notion of including the other or ingroup in the self. As a person becomes a friend with an outgroup member, the aspects of the outgroup is included in the self when that group is made salient. Essentially, representation of the outgroup and its identity is shared with our representation of the self. Including the outgroup in the self can vary; a person may actually become a member of an outgroup. However, in certain circumstances this is virtually impossible and we simply psychologically identify with the group even though we are aware that we are not part of it. Upon inclusion of the outgroup in the self, we now give that group several benefits. These benefits include taking pride in the group, sharing resources, and positive biases in causal explanations of the group. These benefits all increase the likelihood for reduced outgroup prejudice, hence its use as a mechanism for the contact hypothesis.\n\nIt is important to note that the focus of the inclusion of the outgroup in the self is initially at the interpersonal level (i.e. between individuals). The interaction needs to have interpersonal closeness for inclusion of the self in the other to occur. Consequently, a decategorized approach to contact should be used where the focus is on personal identities instead of group identities. By focusing on personalization, there is a greater chance for the development of closeness. Eventually, group membership needs to become available so that an individual can now include the outgroup in the self as well. However, it is believed that group membership will become more central in a natural manner as the close relationship develops.\n\nEmpirical evidence seems to support the inclusion of the outgroup in the self hypothesis. In one study white women were paired off with either another white woman (ingroup member) or a Latina woman (outgroup member). The pairs of women met over an extended period of time completing different activities together, which led to a measurable close friendship. Women with an intergroup friendship were more likely to have positive intergroup attitudes, less likely to endorse anti-minority policies and less likely to demonstrate intergroup anxiety. The study suggests that the intergroup close relationship led to improved attitudes towards the entire outgroup as suggested by the inclusion of the outgroup in the self mechanism. Another study also found that the level of inclusion of the outgroup in the self would affect the amount of decreased prejudicial attitudes. Further, simply including a friend in the self who has a close relationship with an outgroup member can decrease outgroup prejudiced attitudes. Knowing that a friend includes an outgroup member in the self allows for the individual to include that entire outgroup in the self. In turn, this also leads to positive attitudes about the outgroup.\n\nIt may be the case that individuals want to make friends with outgroup members (instead of oppress and mistreat the outgroup) because of the self-expansion motive. Based on Aron and Aron's original work, people want to expand the self and an optimal way of doing so is to make close friendships that give the opportunity for increased perspectives, identities and resources. People who are most similar to ourselves provide a diminished capacity for self-expansion. As a result, an individual may turn to outgroup members for friendship because they are different from one's self-concept. These differences allow for a greater likelihood to increase resources, identities and perspectives, which is consistent with the self-expansion motive. A recent study has shown that, consistent with this idea, priming high self-expansion motivation enhances outgroup self-expansion and the quality and outcomes of outgroup interactions (e.g. greater self-efficacy, reported closeness, and self-growth).\n\nSelf-expansion motives can explain why people may appreciate intergroup contact, however, it can also provide explanations for why we avoid this intergroup contact. People may be cautious of self-expansion due to a sense of self-loss. As we self-expand in one area we may put ourselves at risk of losing aspects of the self in another area. Consequently, people may be fearful of creating a close relationship with an outgroup member as this may trigger animosity from original ingroup members. Often individuals must balance between potential benefits of including the outgroup in the self with the potential loss of ingroup friends and the associated resources. If the self-loss outweighs the self-expansion, it is possible for a decrease in perceived self-efficacy.\n\nA second barrier for self-expansion is the notion for an overabundance of self-expansion in a short period of time. The accumulation of new resources and perspectives in our self-concept leads to a need for self-integration (i.e. combining different resources, identities and perspectives into single overarching self-concept). An excessive amount of self-expansion without proper self-integration can be quite stressful (e.g. moving to a new city, or starting a new job). It has been suggested that when a person is socially stable, self-expansion via an outgroup member is most likely to be successful. Consequently, the likelihood for cross-group contact and the inclusion of the outgroup in the self is dependent on the degree of self-expansion in other domains. Expansion = motivation and believing.\n\nMore recently, self-expansion research has begun to shift away from investigating self-expansion in a social context (e.g. romantic relationships) and instead has focused on self-expansion processes and outcomes of self-expansion at the individual level. Research has also focused on self-expansion in domains such as the workplace. Results of these research studies has shown that self-expansion can (and does) occur at the individual level (e.g. through hobbies and spiritual experiences) and in workplace settings. Similar to findings from social self-expansion literature, individual self-expansion also has positive effects and includes the same processes (e.g. motivation, self-efficacy). Self-expansion has also been presented theoretically within a framework of self-concept change. That is, self-concept change can be thought of as occurring along two independent dimensions: valence (positive vs. negative content) and direction of change (increase vs. decrease in content) and self-expansion represents one of the four possible processes of self-concept change (increasing positive content).\n"}
{"id": "39107086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39107086", "title": "Sexual and reproductive health and rights", "text": "Sexual and reproductive health and rights\n\nSexual and reproductive health and rights or \"SRHR\" is an of human rights applied to sexuality and reproduction. It is a combination of four fields that in some contexts are more or less distinct from each other, but less so or not at all in other contexts. These four fields are sexual health, sexual rights, reproductive health and reproductive rights. In the concept of SRHR, these four fields are treated as separate but inherently intertwined.\n\nDistinctions between these four fields are not always made. Sexual health and reproductive health are sometimes treated as synonymous to each other, as are sexual rights and reproductive rights. In some cases, sexual rights are included in the term sexual health, or vice versa. Not only do different non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and governments use different terminologies, but different terminologies are often used within the same organization.\n\nSome of the notable global NGOs that fight for sexual and reproductive health and rights include IPPF (International Planned Parenthood Federation), ILGA (International Lesbian and Gay Alliance), WAS (World Association for Sexual Health - formerly known as World Association for Sexology), and International HIV/AIDS Alliance.\n\nGovernment-run family planning programs first began in the 1950s. However, the main objectives of these programs were often centered around population control for economic growth and development. In 1994, the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) in Cairo, Egypt marked a significant shift in perspective in regards to reproductive health and is considered to be the birth of the modern SRHR movement. Over the course of the conference, debates surrounding family planning shifted from that of economics to that of public health and human rights. A Program of Action (PoA) was developed by the end of the ICPD and was approved and adopted by 179 countries. The PoA affirmed sexual and reproductive health as a universal human right and outlined global goals and objectives for improving reproductive heath based around central themes of free choice, women's empowerment, and viewing sexual and reproductive health in terms of physical and emotional well-being. The PoA outlined a series of goals, based on a central mission of achieving universal access to reproductive health worldwide, that were aimed to be accomplished by 2015. In 2000, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) were developed, and although reproductive health was not explicitly stated as one of the goals, it became an important component to Goals 3, 4, and 5. In 2010, the original PoA was revisited by the United Nations and updated to reflect their objective of achieving universal reproductive health care by 2015. When the MDGs and ICPD PoA phased out in 2015, the next objectives for SRHR were folded into the Sustainable Development Goals, the next iteration of the MDGs which outline objectives to combat poverty through 2030.\n\nThe World Health Organization defines sexual health as: \"Sexual health is a state of physical, mental and social well-being in relation to sexuality. It requires a positive and respectful approach to sexuality and sexual relationships, as well as the possibility of having pleasurable and safe sexual experiences, free of coercion, discrimination and violence.\"\n\nUnlike the other three aspects of SRHR, the struggle for sexual rights include, and focus on, sexual pleasure and emotional sexual expression. One platform for this struggle is the WAS Declaration of Sexual Rights.\n\nThe Platform for Action from the 1995 Beijing Conference on Women established that human rights include the right of women freely and without coercion, violence or discrimination, to have control over and make decisions concerning their own sexuality, including their own sexual and reproductive health. This paragraph has been interpreted by some countries as the applicable definition of women’s sexual rights. The UN Commission on Human Rights has established that if women had more power, their ability to protect themselves against violence would be strengthened.\n\nAt the 14th World Congress of Sexology (Hong Kong, 1999), the WAS adopted the Declaration of Sexual Rights, which originally included 11 sexual rights. It was heavily revised and expanded in March 2014 by the WAS Advisory Council to include 16 sexual rights:\n\nThis Declaration influenced The Yogyakarta Principles (which were launched as a set of international principles relating to sexual orientation and gender identity on 26 March 2007), especially on the idea of each person's integrity, and right to sexual and reproductive health.\n\nIn 2015 the U.S. government said it would begin using the term \"sexual rights\" in discussions of human rights and global development.\n\nWithin the framework of the World Health Organization's (WHO) definition of health as a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being, and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity, reproductive health, or sexual health/hygiene, addresses the reproductive processes, functions and system at all stages of life. Reproductive health, therefore, implies that people are able to have a responsible, satisfying and safer sex life and that they have the capability to reproduce and the freedom to decide if, when and how often to do so. One interpretation of this implies that men and women ought to be informed of and to have access to safe, effective, affordable and acceptable methods of birth control; also access to appropriate health care services of sexual, reproductive medicine and implementation of health education programs to stress the importance of women to go safely through pregnancy and childbirth could provide couples with the best chance of having a healthy infant. On the other hand, individuals do face inequalities in reproductive health services. Inequalities vary based on socioeconomic status, education level, age, ethnicity, religion, and resources available in their environment. It is possible for example, that low income individuals lack the resources for appropriate health services and the knowledge to know what is appropriate for maintaining reproductive health.\n\nReproductive rights are legal rights and freedoms relating to reproduction and reproductive health. The World Health Organization defines reproductive rights as follows:\n\nReproductive rights rest on the recognition of the basic right of all couples and individuals to decide freely and responsibly the number, spacing and timing of their children and to have the information and means to do so, and the right to attain the highest standard of sexual and reproductive health. They also include the right of all to make decisions concerning reproduction free of discrimination, coercion and violence.\nDespite frequent changes to frameworks, overall goals for SRHR remain little changed. As first stipulated at the ICPD, universal reproductive health care remains the ultimate objective, and with each new framework, targets are developed to progress towards this. In the original ICPD Program of Action, the primary call was for universal access to healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, family planning and sexual health. Over time, these have expanded to include the right to access education regarding sexual and reproductive health, an end to female genital mutilation, and increased women's empowerment in social, political, and cultural spheres.\n\nSpecial goals and targets were also created to address adolescent sexual and reproductive health needs. Adolescents are often the most vulnerable to risks associated with sexual activity, including HIV, due to personal and social issues such as feelings of isolation, child marriage, and stigmatization. Governments realized the importance of investing in the health of adolescents as a means of establishing future well-being for their societies. As a result, the Commission on Population and Development developed a series of fundamental rights for adolescents including the right to comprehensive sex education, the right to decide all matters related to their sexuality, and access to sexual and reproductive health services without discrimination (including safe abortions wherever legal).\n\n"}
{"id": "40546894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40546894", "title": "Signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratio", "text": "Signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratio\n\nIn information theory and telecommunication engineering, the signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratio (SINR) (also known as the signal-to-noise-plus-interference ratio (SNIR)) is a quantity used to give theoretical upper bounds on channel capacity (or the rate of information transfer) in wireless communication systems such as networks. Analogous to the SNR used often in wired communications systems, the SINR is defined as the power of a certain signal of interest divided by the sum of the interference power (from all the other interfering signals) and the power of some background noise. If the power of noise term is zero, then the SINR reduces to the signal-to-interference ratio (SIR). Conversely, zero interference reduces the SINR to the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), which is used less often when developing mathematical models of wireless networks such as cellular networks.\n\nThe complexity and randomness of certain types of wireless networks and signal propagation has motivated the use of stochastic geometry models in order to model the SINR, particularly for cellular or mobile phone networks.\n\nSINR is commonly used in wireless communication as a way to measure the quality of wireless connections. Typically, the energy of a signal fades with distance, which is referred to as a path loss in wireless networks. Conversely, in wired networks the existence of a wired path between the sender or transmitter and the receiver determines the correct reception of data. In a wireless network ones has to take other factors into account (e.g. the background noise, interfering strength of other simultaneous transmission). The concept of SINR attempts to create a representation of this aspect.\n\nThe definition of SINR is usually defined for a particular receiver (or user). In particular, for a receiver located at some point \"x\" in space (usually, on the plane), then its corresponding SINR given by\n\nwhere \"P\" is the power of the incoming signal of interest, \"I\" is the interference power of the other (interfering) signals in the network, and \"N\" is some noise term, which may be a constant or random. Like other ratios in electronic engineering and related fields, the SINR is often expressed in decibels or dB.\n\nTo develop a mathematical model for estimating the SINR, a suitable mathematical model is needed to represent the propagation of the incoming signal and the interfering signals. A common model approach is to assume the propagation model consists of a random component and non-random (or deterministic) component.\n\nThe deterministic component seeks to capture how a signal decays or attenuates as it travels a medium such as air, which is done by introducing a path-loss or attenuation function. A common choice for the path-loss function is a simple power-law. For example, if a signal travels from point \"x\" to point \"y\", then it decays by a factor given by the path-loss function\n\nwhere the path-loss exponent \" α>2\", and \"|x-y|\" denotes the distance between point \"y\" of the user and the signal source at point \"x\". Although this model suffers from a singularity (when \"x=y\"), its simple nature results in it often being used due to the relatively tractable models it gives. Exponential functions are sometimes used to model fast decaying signals.\n\nThe random component of the model entails representing multipath fading of the signal, which is caused by signals colliding with and reflecting off various obstacles such as buildings. This is incorporated into the model by introducing a random variable with some probability distribution. The probability distribution is chosen depending on the type of fading model and include Rayleigh, Rician, log-normal shadow (or shadowing), and Nakagami.\n\nThe propagation model leads to a model for the SINR. Consider a collection of 'n' base stations located at points \"x\" to \"x\" in the plane or 3D space. Then for a user located at, say \"x=0\", then the SINR for a signal coming from base station, say, \"x\", is given by\n\nwhere \"F\" are fading random variables of some distribution. Under the simple power-law path-loss model becomes\n\nIn wireless networks, the factors that contribute to the SINR are often random (or appear random) including the signal propagation and the positioning of network transmitters and receivers. Consequently, in recent years this has motivated research in developing tractable stochastic geometry models in order to estimate the SINR in wireless networks. The related field of continuum percolation theory has also been used to derive bounds on the SINR in wireless networks.\n\n"}
{"id": "26386512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26386512", "title": "Spread the Word to End the Word", "text": "Spread the Word to End the Word\n\nSpread the Word to End the Word is a United States national campaign to encourage people to pledge to stop using the word \"retard\".\n\nEnd the \"R\" word advocates believe the use of the word “retard” in colloquial and everyday speech is hurtful and dehumanizing to individuals with special needs. According to R-word.org, \"The R-word hurts because it is exclusive. It's offensive. It's derogatory.\" They advocate for the use of language that respects the dignity of people with mental disabilities. Advocates believe individuals with cognitive disabilities are capable of enjoying life’s experiences and that causal references to the words \"retard\" or \"retarded\" makes a person with intellectual disabilities feel \"less than human.\"\n\nThe Spread the Word to End the Word movement was established in 2009 during the Special Olympics Global Youth Activation Summit at the 2009 Special Olympics World Winter Games. The Spread the Word to End the Word movement was created by youth with and without intellectual disabilities. According to the Special Olympics:\n\n“The motivation for the campaign was driven by a united passion to promote the positive contributions people with intellectual disabilities make to communities around the world combined with a simple call to action that also symbolizes positive attitude change and a commitment to make the world a more accepting place for all people.”\nOn March 31, 2009 the campaign celebrated the 1st Annual Spread the Word to End the Word National Awareness Day. Across the country, students of all ages made a pledge to eliminate \"retard\" from their vocabulary and encourage others to do the same. In 2010, the 2nd Annual Spread the Word to End the Word National Day of Awareness took place on March 3, 2010.\n\nIn January 2010, the news of the past summer use of \"retards\" by White House chief of staff Rahm Emanuel to describe liberal groups planning attack ads on Democrats was reported in the Wall Street Journal. This led to Emanuel's apologizing to Tim Shriver, chief executive of the Special Olympics. A meeting was held with Emanuel, who was asked to visit www.r-word.org, and he promised to take the R-word pledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "1258853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1258853", "title": "Straight-line diagram", "text": "Straight-line diagram\n\nA straight-line diagram (abbreviated SLD) is a diagram of a road where the road is shown as a straight line. Such diagrams are usually produced by a highway department, and display features along the road, including bridges and intersecting roads. Rows below the diagram show data about the road, usually including speed limit, number of lanes, bridge numbers, and historical data, among other data. Subway lines also frequently employ straight-line diagrams.\n\nAn internal SLD viewing system may also include links to other internal data, including photos or plans. Public SLDs are distributed in formats including PDF and TIFF.\n\nIn Australia, \"strip maps\", which serve a similar function, are distributed by state automobile associations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "153208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153208", "title": "System dynamics", "text": "System dynamics\n\nSystem dynamics (SD) is an approach to understanding the nonlinear behaviour of complex systems over time using stocks, flows, internal feedback loops, table functions and time delays.\n\nSystem dynamics is a methodology and mathematical modeling technique to frame, understand, and discuss complex issues and problems. Originally developed in the 1950s to help corporate managers improve their understanding of industrial processes, SD is currently being used throughout the public and private sector for policy analysis and design.\n\nConvenient graphical user interface (GUI) system dynamics software developed into user friendly versions by the 1990s and have been applied to diverse systems. SD models solve the problem of simultaneity (mutual causation) by updating all variables in small time increments with positive and negative feedbacks and time delays structuring the interactions and control. The best known SD model is probably the 1972 \"The Limits to Growth\". This model forecast that exponential growth of population and capital, with finite resource sources and sinks and perception delays, would lead to economic collapse during the 21st century under a wide variety of growth scenarios.\n\nSystem dynamics is an aspect of systems theory as a method to understand the dynamic behavior of complex systems. The basis of the method is the recognition that the structure of any system, the many circular, interlocking, sometimes time-delayed relationships among its components, is often just as important in determining its behavior as the individual components themselves. Examples are chaos theory and social dynamics. It is also claimed that because there are often properties-of-the-whole which cannot be found among the properties-of-the-elements, in some cases the behavior of the whole cannot be explained in terms of the behavior of the parts.\n\nSystem dynamics was created during the mid-1950s by Professor Jay Forrester of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In 1956, Forrester accepted a professorship in the newly formed MIT Sloan School of Management. His initial goal was to determine how his background in science and engineering could be brought to bear, in some useful way, on the core issues that determine the success or failure of corporations. Forrester's insights into the common foundations that underlie engineering, which led to the creation of system dynamics, were triggered, to a large degree, by his involvement with managers at General Electric (GE) during the mid-1950s. At that time, the managers at GE were perplexed because employment at their appliance plants in Kentucky exhibited a significant three-year cycle. The business cycle was judged to be an insufficient explanation for the employment instability. From hand simulations (or calculations) of the stock-flow-feedback structure of the GE plants, which included the existing corporate decision-making structure for hiring and layoffs, Forrester was able to show how the instability in GE employment was due to the internal structure of the firm and not to an external force such as the business cycle. These hand simulations were the start of the field of system dynamics.\n\nDuring the late 1950s and early 1960s, Forrester and a team of graduate students moved the emerging field of system dynamics from the hand-simulation stage to the formal computer modeling stage. Richard Bennett created the first system dynamics computer modeling language called SIMPLE (Simulation of Industrial Management Problems with Lots of Equations) in the spring of 1958. In 1959, Phyllis Fox and Alexander Pugh wrote the first version of\nDYNAMO (DYNAmic MOdels), an improved version of SIMPLE, and the system dynamics language became the industry standard for over thirty years. Forrester published the first, and still classic, book in the field titled \"Industrial Dynamics\" in 1961.\n\nFrom the late 1950s to the late 1960s, system dynamics was applied almost exclusively to corporate/managerial problems. In 1968, however, an unexpected occurrence caused the field to broaden beyond corporate modeling. John F. Collins, the former mayor of Boston, was appointed a visiting professor of Urban Affairs at MIT. The result of the Collins-Forrester collaboration was a book titled \"Urban Dynamics\". The Urban Dynamics model presented in the book was the first major non-corporate application of system dynamics.\n\nThe second major noncorporate application of system dynamics came shortly after the first. In 1970, Jay Forrester was invited by the Club of Rome to a meeting in Bern, Switzerland. The Club of Rome is an organization devoted to solving what its members describe as the \"predicament of mankind\"—that is, the global crisis that may appear sometime in the future, due to the demands being placed on the Earth's carrying capacity (its sources of renewable and nonrenewable resources and its sinks for the disposal of pollutants) by the world's exponentially growing population. At the Bern meeting, Forrester was asked if system dynamics could be used to address the predicament of mankind. His answer, of course, was that it could. On the plane back from the Bern meeting, Forrester created the first draft of a system dynamics model of the world's socioeconomic system. He called this model WORLD1. Upon his return to the United States, Forrester refined WORLD1 in preparation for a visit to MIT by members of the Club of Rome. Forrester called the refined version of the model WORLD2. Forrester published WORLD2 in a book titled World Dynamics.\n\nThe elements of system dynamics diagrams are feedback, accumulation of flows into stocks and time delays.\n\nAs an illustration of the use of system dynamics, imagine an organisation that plans to introduce an innovative new durable consumer product. The organisation needs to understand the possible market dynamics in order to design marketing and production plans.\n\nIn the system dynamics methodology, a problem or a system (e.g., ecosystem, political system or mechanical system) may be represented as a causal loop diagram. A causal loop diagram is a simple map of a system with all its constituent components and their interactions. By capturing interactions and consequently the feedback loops (see figure below), a causal loop diagram reveals the structure of a system. By understanding the structure of a system, it becomes possible to ascertain a system’s behavior over a certain time period.\n\nThe causal loop diagram of the new product introduction may look as follows:\n\nThere are two feedback loops in this diagram. The positive reinforcement (labeled R) loop on the right indicates that the more people have already adopted the new product, the stronger the word-of-mouth impact. There will be more references to the product, more demonstrations, and more reviews. This positive feedback should generate sales that continue to grow.\n\nThe second feedback loop on the left is negative reinforcement (or \"balancing\" and hence labeled B). Clearly, growth cannot continue forever, because as more and more people adopt, there remain fewer and fewer potential adopters.\n\nBoth feedback loops act simultaneously, but at different times they may have different strengths. Thus one might expect growing sales in the initial years, and then declining sales in the later years. However, in general a causal loop diagram does not specify the structure of a system sufficiently to permit determination of its behavior from the visual representation alone.\n\nCausal loop diagrams aid in visualizing a system’s structure and behavior, and analyzing the system qualitatively. To perform a more detailed quantitative analysis, a causal loop diagram is transformed to a stock and flow diagram. A stock and flow model helps in studying and analyzing the system in a quantitative way; such models are usually built and simulated using computer software.\n\nA stock is the term for any entity that accumulates or depletes over time. A flow is the rate of change in a stock.\n\nIn our example, there are two stocks: Potential adopters and Adopters. There is one flow: New adopters. For every new adopter, the stock of potential adopters declines by one, and the stock of adopters increases by one.\n\nThe real power of system dynamics is utilised through simulation. Although it is possible to perform the modeling in a spreadsheet, there are a variety of software packages that have been optimised for this.\n\nThe steps involved in a simulation are:\n\n\nIn this example, the equations that change the two stocks via the flow are:\n\nList of all the equations in discrete time, in their order of execution in each year, for years 1 to 15 :\n\nThe dynamic simulation results show that the behaviour of the system would be to have growth in \"adopters\" that follows a classic s-curve shape.\nThe increase in \"adopters\" is very slow initially, then exponential growth for a period, followed ultimately by saturation.\n\n4588\n\nTo get intermediate values and better accuracy, the model can run in continuous time: we multiply the number of units of time and we proportionally divide values that change stock levels. In this example we multiply the 15 years by 4 to obtain 60 trimesters, and we divide the value of the flow by 4.<br>\nDividing the value is the simplest with the Euler method, but other methods could be employed instead, such as Runge–Kutta methods.\n\nList of the equations in continuous time for trimesters = 1 to 60 :\n formula_11\n\n formula_15\nSystem dynamics has found application in a wide range of areas, for example population, agriculture, ecological and economic systems, which usually interact strongly with each other.\n\nSystem dynamics have various \"back of the envelope\" management applications. They are a potent tool to:\n\nComputer software is used to simulate a system dynamics model of the situation being studied. Running \"what if\" simulations to test certain policies on such a model can greatly aid in understanding how the system changes over time. System dynamics is very similar to systems thinking and constructs the same causal loop diagrams of systems with feedback. However, system dynamics typically goes further and utilises simulation to study the behaviour of systems and the impact of alternative policies.\n\nSystem dynamics has been used to investigate resource dependencies, and resulting problems, in product development.\n\nA system dynamics approach to macroeconomics, known as \"Minsky\", has been developed by the economist Steve Keen. This has been used to successfully model world economic behaviour from the apparent stability of the Great Moderation to the sudden unexpected Financial crisis of 2007–08.\n\nThe figure above is a causal loop diagram of a system dynamics model created to examine forces that may be responsible for the growth or decline of life insurance companies in the United Kingdom. A number of this figure's features are worth mentioning. The first is that the model's negative feedback loops are identified by \"C's\", which stand for \"Counteracting\" loops. The second is that double slashes are used to indicate places where there is a significant delay between causes (i.e., variables at the tails of arrows) and effects (i.e., variables at the heads of arrows). This is a common causal loop diagramming convention in system dynamics. Third, is that thicker lines are used to identify the feedback loops and links that author wishes the audience to focus on. This is also a common system dynamics diagramming convention. Last, it is clear that a decision maker would find it impossible to think through the dynamic behavior inherent in the model, from inspection of the figure alone.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14046764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14046764", "title": "The Rape of Europa (book)", "text": "The Rape of Europa (book)\n\nThe Rape of Europa: The Fate of Europe's Treasures in the Third Reich and the Second World War is a book by Lynn H. Nicholas and a subsequent documentary film. The book explores the Nazi plunder of looted art treasures from occupied countries and the consequences. It covers a range of associated activities: Nazi appropriation and storage, patriotic concealment and smuggling during World War II, discoveries by the Allies, and the extraordinary tasks of preserving, tracking, and returning by the American Monuments officers and their colleagues. Nicholas was awarded the Légion d'Honneur by France.\n\nDespite the regular accounts of impending destruction of art works, Nicholas also recounts a veneration for art on the part of people of all sides of the conflict, and what amounts to desperate and sometimes heroic activity. The villains, unsurprisingly, are often the Nazis, particularly Adolf Hitler and Hermann Göring; however, the activities of Western art dealers are often questionable, as well.\n\nThe book is chronological, starting with scattered events in the decade before World War II. During this time, the Nazis used their influence and money to acquire artwork, while dealers and the public at large were anticipating war. Discussion of Nazi occupation starts in the third chapter. The middle of the book discusses Nazi plundering during the war, as well as Soviet efforts to safeguard their treasures. Midway through the book, the role of American and Allied organizations is introduced, including the frustratingly tentative planning and lack of resources they faced. The book follows the path of liberation as the Allies push back the Axis, while missing art is searched for and recovered art conserved. The book concludes with chapters about post war activities: resolving problems of ownership, coordinating the return of stolen art, and attempting to collect what was yet missing. Philosophically intriguing are issues of who ultimately owns works of art. Since this last phase of recovery and restitution is ongoing, this book has a bearing on current activities.\n\nThe book won the National Book Critics Circle Award for general non-fiction in 1994.\n\nIt was adapted for a film of the same name released in 2006. It was made for 1.3 million USD, with half underwritten by the National Endowment for the Humanities and the remainder underwritten by the National Endowment for the Arts, several other foundations, and one private investor.\n\nAmong the featured vignettes in the film is Jewish refugee Maria Altmann, who in 2006 restituted Gustav Klimt's masterpiece \"Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer I\". Altmann was portrayed by Helen Mirren in the 2015 film \"Woman in Gold\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36817859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36817859", "title": "The Void (philosophy)", "text": "The Void (philosophy)\n\nThe Void is the philosophical concept of nothingness manifested. The notion of the Void is relevant to several realms of metaphysics. The Void is also prevalent in numerous facets of psychology, notably logotherapy.\n\nThe manifestation of nothingness is closely associated with the contemplation of emptiness, and with human attempts to identify and personify it. As such, the concept of the Void, and ideas similar to it, have a significant and historically evolving presence in artistic and creative expression, as well as in academic, scientific and philosophical debate surrounding the nature of the human condition.\n\nIn this sense, knowledge or experience of the Void could be said to actually be unknowing, given its inherent ineffability. In Western mystical traditions, it was often argued that the transcendent 'Ground of Being' could therefore be approached through aphairesis, a form of negation.\n\nWestern philosophers have discussed the existence and nature of void since Parmenides suggested it did not exist and used this to argue for the non-existence of change, motion, differentiation, among other things. In response to Parmenides, Democritus described the universe as only being composed of atoms and void.\n\nAristotle, in Book IV of \"Physics\", denied the existence of the Void () with his rejection of finite entities.\n\nThere were questions as to whether void was truly nothing or if it was in fact filled with other things, with theories of aether being suggested in the 18th century to fill the void.\n\nPeter Matthiessen in \"The Snow Leopard\" (1978) described an experience of sitting on rocks in the Himalayas as leading to an awareness of a Void at the centre, or the source, of phenomenal existence: \"These hard rocks instruct my bones in what my brain could never grasp in the Heart Sutra, that 'form is emptiness and emptiness is form' – the Void, the emptiness of blue-black space, contained in everything.\"\n\nFor Ken Wilber in \"Spectrum of Consciousness\" (1977), the Void is not mere nothingness, and is therefore distinct from something that can be subsumed into the category of nihilism, and is instead \"reality before we slice it up into conceptualism\". Here he explores the idea of Śūnyatā, which cannot be \"called void or not void; or both or neither\" but can be referred to as 'the Void' with, again, the proviso that it exists beyond the limit of language.\n\nStanislav Grof's distinction between holotropic and hylotropic experience is important here, with the former encapsulating experiences which connect to the Void.\n\n\n\nThe Void is also an important concept in martial arts such as Aikido.\n\nAtomic physics, according to Paul Brunton, has proven that the world \"derives from a mysterious No-thing.\"\n\nA similar line of argument is explored in \"The Void\" (2007) by Frank Close, who discusses the concept of 'empty space' from Aristotle through to Newton, Mach, Einstein and beyond (including the idea of an 'aether' and current examinations of the Higgs field).\n\nAnother perspective on the matter from a scientific angle is the work of the physicist Lawrence Krauss, particularly his 2012 book \"A Universe from Nothing\", in which he explores the idea of the universe having been derived from a quantum vacuum (which may or may not be the same as a philosophical concept of the nothingness of the Void, depending on how it is defined). A further consideration is the enigmatic nature of dark energy which may be seen as coterminous with the Void. His work has received sustained criticism from David Albert and others working in both philosophy and physics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12915657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12915657", "title": "Trickling filter", "text": "Trickling filter\n\nA trickling filter is a type of wastewater treatment system. It consists of a fixed bed of rocks, coke, gravel, slag, polyurethane foam, sphagnum peat moss, ceramic, or plastic media over which sewage or other wastewater flows downward and causes a layer of microbial slime (biofilm) to grow, covering the bed of media. conditions are maintained by splashing, diffusion, and either by forced-air flowing through the bed or natural convection of air if the filter medium is porous.\n\nThe terms trickle filter, trickling biofilter, biofilter, biological filter and biological trickling filter are often used to refer to a trickling filter. These systems have also been described as roughing filters, intermittent filters, packed media bed filters, alternative septic systems, percolating filters, attached growth processes, and fixed film processes.\n\nTypically, sewage flow enters at a high level and flows through the primary settlement tank. The supernatant from the tank flows into a dosing device, often a tipping bucket which delivers flow to the arms of the filter. The flush of water flows through the arms and exits through a series of holes pointing at an angle downwards. This propels the arms around distributing the liquid evenly over the surface of the filter media.\nMost are uncovered (unlike the accompanying diagram) and are freely ventilated to the atmosphere.\n\nThe removal of pollutants from the waste water stream involves both absorption and adsorption of organic compounds and some inorganic species such as nitrite and nitrate ions by the layer of microbial bio film. The filter media is typically chosen to provide a very high surface area to volume. Typical materials are often porous and have considerable internal surface area in addition to the external surface of the medium. Passage of the waste water over the media provides dissolved oxygen which the bio-film layer requires for the biochemical oxidation of the organic compounds and releases carbon dioxide gas, water and other oxidized end products. As the bio film layer thickens, it eventually sloughs off into the liquid flow and subsequently forms part of the secondary sludge. Typically, a trickling filter is followed by a clarifier or sedimentation tank for the separation and removal of the sloughed film. Other filters utilizing higher-density media such as sand, foam and peat moss do not produce a sludge that must be removed, but require forced air blowers and backwashing or an enclosed anaerobic environment.\n\nThe bio-film that develops in a trickling filter may become several millimetres thick and is typically a gelatinous matrix that contains many species of bacteria, cilliates and amoeboid protozoa, annelids, round worms and insect larvae and many other micro fauna. This is very different from many other bio-films which may be less than 1 mm thick. Within the thickness of the biofilm both aerobic and anaerobic zones can exist supporting both oxidative and reductive biological processes. At certain times of year, especially in the spring, rapid growth of organisms in the film may cause the film to be too thick and it may slough off in patches leading to the \"spring slough\".\n\nA typical trickling filter is circular and between 10 metres and 20 metres across and between 2 metres to 3 metres deep. A circular wall, often of brick, contains a bed of filter media which in turn rests on a base of under-drains. These under-drains function both to remove liquid passing through the filter media but also to allow the free passage of air up through the filter media. Mounted in the center over the top of the filter media is a spindle supporting two or more horizontal perforated pipes which extend to the edge of the media. The perforations on the pipes are designed to allow an even flow of liquid over the whole area of the media and are also angled so that when liquid flows from the pipes the whole assembly rotates around the central spindle. Settled sewage is delivered to a reservoir at the centre of the spindle via some form of dosing mechanism, often a tipping bucket device on small filters.\n\nLarger filters may be rectangular and the distribution arms may be driven by hydraulic or electrical systems.\n\nSingle trickling filters may be used for the treatment of small residential septic tank discharges and very small rural sewage treatment systems. Larger centralized sewage treatment plants typically use many trickling filters in parallel.\n\nSystems can be configured for single-pass use where the treated water is applied to the trickling filter once before being disposed of, or for multi-pass use where a portion of the treated water is cycled back and re-treated via a closed loop. Multi-pass systems result in higher treatment quality and assist in removing Total Nitrogen (TN) levels by promoting nitrification in the aerobic media bed and denitrification in the anaerobic septic tank. Some systems use the filters in two banks operated in series so that the wastewater has two passes through a filter with a sedimentation stage between the two passes. Every few days the filters are switched round to balance the load. This method of treatment can improve nitrification and de-nitrification since much of the carbonaceous oxidative material is removed on the first pass through the filters.\n\nTrickling may have a variety of types of filter media used to support the biofilm. Types of media most commonly used include coke, pumice, plastic matrix material, open-cell polyurethane foam, clinker, gravel, sand and geotextiles. Ideal filter medium optimizes surface area for microbial attachment, wastewater retention time, allows air flow, resists plugging is mechanically robust in all weathers allowing walking access across the filter and does not degrade. Some residential systems require forced aeration units which will increase maintenance and operational costs.\n\nThe treatment of industrial wastewater may involve specialized trickling filters which use plastic media and high flow rates. Wastewaters from a variety of industrial processes have been treated in trickling filters. Such industrial wastewater trickling filters consist of two types:\n\n\nThe availability of inexpensive plastic tower packings has led to their use as trickling filter beds in tall towers, some as high as 20 meters. As early as the 1960s, such towers were in use at: the Great Northern Oil's Pine Bend Refinery in Minnesota; the Cities Service Oil Company Trafalgar Refinery in Oakville, Ontario and at a kraft paper mill.\n\nThe treated water effluent from industrial wastewater trickling filters is typically processed in a clarifier to remove the sludge that sloughs off the microbial slime layer attached to the trickling filter media as for other trickling filter applications.\n\nSome of the latest trickle filter technology involves aerated biofilters of plastic media in vessels using blowers to inject air at the bottom of the vessels, with either downflow or upflow of the wastewater.\n\n"}
{"id": "97517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=97517", "title": "Unintended consequences", "text": "Unintended consequences\n\nIn the social sciences, unintended consequences (sometimes unanticipated consequences or unforeseen consequences) are outcomes that are not the ones foreseen and intended by a purposeful action. The term was popularised in the twentieth century by American sociologist Robert K. Merton.\n\nUnintended consequences can be grouped into three types:\n\nThe idea of \"unintended consequences\" dates back at least to John Locke who discussed the unintended consequences of interest rate regulation in his letter to Sir John Somers, Member of Parliament.\n\nThe idea was also discussed by Adam Smith, the Scottish Enlightenment, and consequentialism (judging by results).\n\nSociologist Robert K. Merton popularised this concept in the twentieth century.\n\nIn \"The Unanticipated Consequences of Purposive Social Action\" (1936), Merton tried to apply a systematic analysis to the problem of unintended consequences of deliberate acts intended to cause social change. He emphasized that his term \"purposive action\", \"[was exclusively] concerned with 'conduct' as distinct from 'behavior.' That is, with action that involves motives and consequently a choice between various alternatives\". Merton's usage included deviations from what Max Weber defined as rational social action: instrumentally rational and value rational. Merton also stated that \"no blanket statement categorically affirming or denying the practical feasibility of \"all\" social planning is warranted.\"\n\nMore recently, the \"law of unintended consequences\" has come to be used as an adage or idiomatic warning that an intervention in a complex system tends to create unanticipated and often undesirable outcomes.\n\nAkin to Murphy's law, it is commonly used as a wry or humorous warning against the hubristic belief that humans can fully control the world around them.\n\nPossible causes of unintended consequences include the world's inherent complexity (parts of a system responding to changes in the environment), perverse incentives, human stupidity, self-deception, failure to account for human nature, or other cognitive or emotional biases. As a sub-component of complexity (in the scientific sense), the chaotic nature of the universe—and especially its quality of having small, apparently insignificant changes with far-reaching effects (e.g., the butterfly effect)—applies.\n\nRobert K. Merton listed five possible causes of unanticipated consequences in 1936:\n\n\nIn addition to Merton's causes, psychologist Stuart Vyse has noted that groupthink, described by Irving Janis, has been blamed for some decisions that result in unintended consequences.\n\nThe creation of \"no-man's lands\" during the Cold War, in places such as the border between Eastern and Western Europe, and the Korean Demilitarized Zone, has led to large natural habitats.\n\nThe sinking of ships in shallow waters during wartime has created many artificial coral reefs, which can be scientifically valuable and have become an attraction for recreational divers. Retired ships have been purposely sunk in recent years, in an effort to replace coral reefs lost to global warming and other factors.\n\nIn medicine, most drugs have unintended consequences ('side effects') associated with their use. However, some are beneficial. For instance, aspirin, a pain reliever, is also an anticoagulant that can help prevent heart attacks and reduce the severity and damage from thrombotic strokes. The existence of beneficial side effects also leads to off-label use—prescription or use of a drug for an unlicensed purpose. Famously, the drug Viagra was developed to lower blood pressure, with its use for treating erectile dysfunction being discovered as a side effect in clinical trials.\n\nThe implementation of a profanity filter by AOL in 1996 had the unintended consequence of blocking residents of Scunthorpe, North Lincolnshire, England from creating accounts due to a false positive. The accidental censorship of innocent language, known as the Scunthorpe problem, has been repeated and widely documented.\n\nThe objective of microfinance initiatives is to foster micro-entrepreneurs but an unintended consequence can be informal intermediation: That is, some entrepreneurial borrowers become informal intermediaries between microfinance initiatives and poorer micro-entrepreneurs. Those who more easily qualify for microfinance split loans into smaller credit to poorer borrowers. Informal intermediation ranges from casual intermediaries at the good or benign end of the spectrum to 'loan sharks' at the professional and sometimes criminal end of the spectrum.\n\nIn 1990, the Australian state of Victoria made safety helmets mandatory for all bicycle riders. While there was a reduction in the number of head injuries, there was also an unintended reduction in the number of juvenile cyclists—fewer cyclists obviously leads to fewer injuries, assuming all else being equal. The risk of death and serious injury per cyclist seems to have increased, possibly due to risk compensation. Research by Vulcan, \"et al.\" found that the reduction in juvenile cyclists was because the youths considered wearing a bicycle helmet unfashionable. A health-benefit model developed at Macquarie University in Sydney suggests that, while helmet use reduces \"the risk of head or brain injury by approximately two-thirds or more\", the decrease in exercise caused by reduced cycling as a result of helmet laws is counterproductive in terms of net health.\n\nProhibition in the 1920s United States, originally enacted to suppress the alcohol trade, drove many small-time alcohol suppliers out of business and consolidated the hold of large-scale organized crime over the illegal alcohol industry. Since alcohol was still popular, criminal organisations producing alcohol were well-funded and hence also increased their other activities. Similarly, the War on Drugs, intended to suppress the illegal drug trade, instead increased the power and profitability of drug cartels who became the primary source of the products.\n\nIn CIA jargon, \"blowback\" describes the unintended, undesirable consequences of covert operations, such as the funding of the Afghan Mujahideen and the destabilization of Afghanistan contributing to the rise of the Taliban and Al-Qaeda.\n\nThe introduction of exotic animals and plants for food, for decorative purposes, or to control unwanted species often leads to more harm than good done by the introduced species.\n\nThe protection of the steel industry in the United States reduced production of steel in the United States, increased costs to users, and increased unemployment in associated industries.\n\nIn 2003, Barbra Streisand unsuccessfully sued Kenneth Adelman and Pictopia.com for posting a photograph of her home online. Before the lawsuit had been filed, only 6 people had downloaded the file, two of them Streisand's attorneys. The lawsuit drew attention to the image, resulting in 420,000 people visiting the site. The Streisand effect was named after this incident, describing when an attempt to censor or remove a certain piece of information instead draws attention to the material being suppressed, resulting in the material instead becoming widely known, reported on, and distributed.\n\nPassenger-side airbags in motorcars were intended as a safety feature, but led to an increase in child fatalities in the mid-1990s as small children were being hit by deploying airbags during collisions. The supposed solution to this problem, moving the child seat to the back of the vehicle, led to an increase in the number of children forgotten in unattended vehicles, some of whom died under extreme temperature conditions.\n\nRisk compensation, or the Peltzman effect, occurs after implementation of safety measures intended to reduce injury or death (e.g. bike helmets, seatbelts, etc.). People may feel safer than they really are and take additional risks which they would not have taken without the safety measures in place. This may result in no change, or even an increase, in morbidity or mortality, rather than a decrease as intended.\n\nThe British government, concerned about the number of venomous cobra snakes in Delhi, offered a bounty for every dead cobra. This was a successful strategy as large numbers of snakes were killed for the reward. Eventually, enterprising people began breeding cobras for the income. When the government became aware of this, they scrapped the reward program, causing the cobra breeders to set the now-worthless snakes free. As a result, the wild cobra population further increased. The apparent solution for the problem made the situation even worse, becoming known as the Cobra effect.\n\nTheobald Mathew's temperance campaign in 19th-century Ireland resulted in thousands of people vowing never to drink alcohol again. This led to the consumption of diethyl ether, a much more dangerous intoxicant — due to its high flammability — by those seeking to become intoxicated without breaking the letter of their pledge.\n\nIt was thought that adding south-facing conservatories to British houses would reduce energy consumption by providing extra insulation and warmth from the sun. However, people tended to use the conservatories as living areas, installing heating and ultimately increasing overall energy consumption.\n\nA reward for lost nets found along the Normandy coast was offered by the French government between 1980 and 1981. This resulted in people vandalizing nets to collect the reward.\n\nBeginning in the 1940s and continuing into the 1960s, the Canadian federal government gave the Catholic Church in Quebec $2.25 per day per psychiatric patient for their cost of care, but only $0.75 a day per orphan. The perverse result is that the orphan children were diagnosed as mentally ill so the church could receive the larger amount of money. This psychiatric misdiagnosis affected up to 20,000 people, and the children are known as the Duplessis Orphans.\n\nThere have been attempts to curb the consumption of sugary beverages by imposing a tax on them. However, a study found that the reduced consumption was only temporary. Also, there was an increase in the consumption of beer among households.\n\nThe New Jersey Childproof Handgun Law, which was intended to protect children from accidental discharge of firearms by forcing all future firearms sold in New Jersey to contain \"smart\" safety features, has delayed, if not stopped entirely, the introduction of such firearms to New Jersey markets. The wording of the law caused significant public backlash, fuelled by gun rights lobbyists, and several shop owners offering such guns received death threats and stopped stocking them In 2014, 12 years after the law was passed, it was suggested the law be repealed if gun rights lobbyists agree not to resist the introduction of \"smart\" firearms.\n\nDrug prohibition can lead drug traffickers to prefer stronger, more dangerous substances, that can be more easily smuggled and distributed than other, less concentrated substances.\n\nTelevised drug prevention advertisements may lead to increased drug use.\n\nAbstinence-only sex education has been shown to increase teenage pregnancy rates, rather than reduce them, when compared to either comprehensive sex education or no sex education at all.\n\nIncreasing usage of search engines, also including recent image search features, has contributed in the ease of which media is consumed. Some abnormalities in usage may have shifted preferences for pornographic film actors, as the producers began using common search queries or tags to label the actors in new roles.\n\nThe passage of the Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act has led to a reported increase in risky behaviors by sex workers as a result of quashing their ability to seek and screen clients online, forcing them back onto the streets or into the dark web. The ads posted were previously an avenue for advocates to reach out to those wanting to escape the trade.\n\nMost modern technologies have negative consequences that are both unavoidable and unpredictable. For example, almost all environmental problems, from chemical pollution to global warming, are the unexpected consequences of the application of modern technologies. Traffic congestion, deaths and injuries from car accidents, air pollution, and global warming are unintended consequences of the invention and large scale adoption of the automobile. Hospital infections are the unexpected side-effect of antibiotic resistance, and even human overpopulation is the side effect of various technological (i.e., agricultural and industrial) revolutions.\n\nBecause of the complexity of ecosystems, deliberate changes to an ecosystem or other environmental interventions will often have (usually negative) unintended consequences. Sometimes, these effects cause permanent irreversible changes. Examples include:\n\n"}
