{"id": "26161273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26161273", "title": "1951 Army Cadets football team", "text": "1951 Army Cadets football team\n\nThe 1951 Army Cadets football team represented the United States Military Academy in the 1951 college football season. Led by head coach Earl Blaik, the team finished with a record of 2–7. The Cadets offense scored 116 points, while the defense allowed 183 points.\n\nIn the offseason, Blaik was still agitated by the loss Army suffered to Navy in 1950. In addition, he was upset over the dismissal of General Douglas MacArthur. Sam Galiffa, who was part of the 1949 team, was now a decorated aide to General Matthew Ridgway. Galiffa arranged for members of the Army coaching staff to come to Japan and visit the troops. Vince Lombardi and Doug Kenna first visited Tokyo and conducted several football clinics for the troops stationed there. Although defensive coordinator Murray Warmath helped the discharged players relocate to other schools, it was his last year at Army. He left at the end of the season to become the head coach for Mississippi State.\n\nA massive honor code academic violation was revealed in the spring of 1951. There were accusations that football players were distributing unauthorized academic information. This was reported to Colonel Paul Harkins on April 2. It was later revealed that Red Blaik's son, Bob, was part of the honor code violation. On August 3, the violations were announced and several athletes were implicated in the scandal.\n\nJoseph P. Kennedy spoke to assistant coach Doug Kenna, and he helped pay the way for several discharged players to attend Notre Dame. Bob Blaik left Army for Colorado College. Of the players that were discharged, three went on to careers in the National Football League: Al Pollard, Gene Filipski and Ray Malavasi. Malavasi also become head coach of the Los Angeles Rams.\n\nThe makeshift team that was assembled had no involvement in the honor violation, but they were still a reminder of it. After losing several games to Ivy League schools, Army defeated Columbia for its first win. The team received a congratulatory note from General Douglas MacArthur.\n\nIn week 6 of the season, the Cadets played Frank Gifford and his USC Trojans squad. The game was played at Yankee Stadium. Before the Army–Navy game, the Cadets had a record of 2 wins and 6 losses. This was Blaik's only losing season at Army. In the Army–Navy game, Navy scored two touchdowns before Army even ran an offensive series.\n\n"}
{"id": "8389407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8389407", "title": "826LA", "text": "826LA\n\n826LA is a Los Angeles-based nonprofit organization dedicated to supporting students ages 6–18 with their creative and expository writing skills and helping teachers inspire their students to write. Programs are structured around the beliefs that great leaps in learning can happen with one-on-one attention and that strong writing skills are fundamental to future success. 826LA was founded in 2005 and is one of several chapters of 826 National. To serve students across Los Angeles' various regions, there are two locations: 826LA in Mar Vista and 826LA in Echo Park. A satellite site at Manual Arts Senior High School in South L.A. opened in 2013.\n\nThe 826LA Board of Directors consists of Grant DeVaul, Dave Eggers, Terena Thyne Eisner, Jodie Evans, DeAnna Gravillis, Keith Knight, Louis Lucido, Krystyn Madrigal, Sylvie Rabineau, and Brad Simpson.\n\nThere are seven other 826 National chapters; San Francisco (826 Valencia), NYC (826NYC), Chicago (826CHI), Ann Arbor/Ypsilanti/Detroit (826michigan), Boston (826 Boston), New Orleans (826 New Orleans) and Washington, D.C. (826DC).\n\nThe Time Travel Mart exists at both 826LA in Mar Vista and 826LA in Echo Park, specializing in products imported from the past and future, such as Viking odorant, robot milk, robot toupees, robot emotions, mammoth chunks, and other time travel-themed oddities. The store and its initial line of products were conceived by writers Mac Barnett and Jon Korn, and graphic designer Stefan G. Bucher. The store also sells anthologies of work by 826LA writing students, new and back issues of \"Timothy McSweeney's Quarterly Concern\", \"The Believer\", \"Wholphin\", and other McSweeney's publications. The store also sells a special series of Poketo wallets, celebrating the work of artists and students alike. The short stories written by 826LA students line the inside of Poketo's artist wallets, and then illustrated with a Poketo artist's interpretations of the stories.\n\nAfter-School Tutoring\n\n826LA offers free tutoring Monday through Thursday. Tutoring is offered with a focus on personalized instruction, offering local students individualized help with their homework. Students come to the writing labs, where they work with tutors to complete their daily assignments, and often to embark on ambitious writing projects: poems, stories, comic books, and self-initiated research. Student writing is compiled and published in chapbook form by two in-house publishing outfits: Dogtown Books (Mar Vista) and Echo Park Press (Echo Park).\n\nWorkshops\n\n826LA offers writing workshops that cover a wide spectrum of subjects, all designed to strengthen students’ skills, foster their creativity, and give them an opportunity to execute projects that showcase their work. Working professionals teach all the offered workshops, and class sizes are kept small to ensure individualized attention. These workshops focus on a variety of topics. Recent classes have covered crafting college-application essays, designing imaginary countries, preparing for the SAT, reviewing runway fashion, and writing love poetry from the perspective of leopards. In 2012, two workshops encouraged students to examine their daily lives and share their thoughts and experiences with students in Rwanda and India.\n\nAmong its many collaborative workshops is Sunday Afternoon For Kids, held at the Hammer Museum in which artists, writers and performers teach their craft.\n\nA popular songwriting workshop brings together local musicians to collaborate with students in the songwriting process. In 2010, an edition of the workshop featured the band The Submarines, and was titled \"Songwriting With The Submarines.\" The students' songs were then recorded by professional musicians and released as an album called \"Chickens in Love\", featuring musicians such as The Submarines, Fiona Apple, Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros, Tim and Eric, Crystal Antlers, Cold War Kids, Dum Dum Girls, and more.\n\nIn-Schools\n\n826LA also sends volunteers into school throughout Los Angeles. Tutors support Los Angeles teachers in their classrooms, providing students with one-on-one attention and feedback as they work on various writing assignments: sonnets, biographies, University of California application essays, narrative essays, and more. In Spring 2006, Community Photoworks was created, an annual collaboration between 826LA and the J. Paul Getty Museum. Seventh-graders students were taught the basics of photographic composition, explored Los Angeles with cameras, and wrote and polished artist statements. Their photographs and statements were displayed in a gallery exhibition in Venice.\n\nField Trips\n\nIn the mornings, classes from around Los Angeles visit the 826LA writing labs to participate in engaging and spirited field trips. Teachers can choose from various field-trip plans, such as workshops in screenwriting and journalism, or request a custom-designed program. Field trips are tailored to complement any teacher’s curriculum.\n\nThe most popular field trip is \"Storytelling & Bookmaking,\" in which classes collaborate to write stories for Mr. Barnacle, the never-seen, always-cranky publisher behind Barnacle & Barnacle Books. With the help of several storytellers, an illustrator, and a typist, a class works together to create characters, a setting, and a plot for an original story. (A recent book chronicled the friendship between an injured mouse and a sandwich-making robot policeman. Others have featured time traveling tea-cup pigs, spaghetti monsters, and sentient planets). The action builds to a thrilling cliffhanger, and then each student has an opportunity to write an ending, create an illustration, bind his or her book, and walk away with the finished product. Barnacle is notoriously hard to please, but the students’ work manages to earn his enthusiastic approval every time.\n\nDead Author Readings\n\nSince 2008, 826LA has presented a series of Dead Author Readings, in which deceased wordsmiths such as Mary Shelley and Edgar Allan Poe have read from their works and answered questions from the audience. The first iteration took place at the Echo Park location and featured comedian Patton Oswalt, who impersonated William Fryer Harvey and read from the works \"The Clock\" and \"August Heat.\" The series then morphed into a collaboration with Paul F. Tompkins and the Upright Citizen's Brigade. More recent readings have impersonated F. Scott Fitzgerald and James Joyce, Mary Shelley, O. Henry, J.R.R. Tolkien, and the Brothers Grimm.\n\nWriter's Panels\n\nStarting in 2009, 826LA began running the Adult Writing Seminar Series, which was meant to provide insight for aspiring adult writers into the world of professional writing. Each workshop focused on a different genre and featured experienced writers at a panel discussion. Early topics included music writing, food writing, comedy writing, and memoir writing. After appearing as a panelist for the Comedy Writing seminar, Ben Blacker returned to moderate the TV Writing seminar, and the series has since become a collaboration with Nerdist entitled the Nerdist Writer’s Panel, with Blacker as the sole moderator.\n\nFundraisers\n\n826LA has become well known for hosting creative and entertaining fundraisers. In August 2008, 826LA hosted the Echo Park Lake Paddle Boat Regatta. In 2009, they hosted the first annual Craft Beer Fest at the Echoplex in Echo Park.\n\nIn 2010, Judd Apatow and Dave Eggers hosted an event called \"I Found This Funny: An Evening of Music and Comedy.\" The event featured Lindsay Buckingham, Randy Newman, Garry Shandling, Aziz Ansari, Maria Bamford, and Ryan Adams. 826LA also hosted a celebrity spelling bee in 2010 called \"Spelling Bee for Cheaters,\" which featured John Krasinski, Dave Eggers, Spike Jonze, and Jimmy Kimmel.\n\nIn 2011, director and photographer Spike Jonze and actress Miranda July competed in a ping-pong tournament to raise funds for 826LA, raising around $30,000.\n\nIn 2012, 826LA hosted the Judd and Jon Music and Comedy Hour(s), a music and comedy fundraiser featuring headliners Jon Brion and Judd Apatow, along with Pee Wee Herman, The RZA, Bob Newhart, Peter Frampton, Colin Quinn, and Ray Romano. The event raised over $250,000.\n\nRoar Shack Reading Series\n\nIn 2012, 826LA became host to the Roar Shack Reading Series founded by David Rocklin, a Los Angeles-based community of writers who come together on the second Sunday of every month. The event consists of featured readers and a live write. Featured readers in the past have included Natashia Deón (author of \"Grace: A Novel\"), Martin Pousson (author of \"Black Sheep Boy\"), and Brian Sonia-Wallace (poet). For each live write, an audience suggested prompt is assigned and two writers are chosen to write and perform. \n\n"}
{"id": "4973041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4973041", "title": "AP Microeconomics", "text": "AP Microeconomics\n\nAdvanced Placement Microeconomics (or AP Microeconomics) is a course offered by the College Board as part of the Advanced Placement Program for high school students interested in college-level coursework in microeconomics and/or gaining advanced standing in college. The course begins with a study of fundamental economic concepts such as scarcity, opportunity costs, production possibilities, specialization, and comparative advantage. Major topics include the nature of functions of product markets; factor markets; and efficiency, equity, and the role of government. AP Microeconomics is often taken in conjunction with or after AP Macroeconomics.\n\n\n\n74,049 students took the AP Microeconomics exam in 2014.\n\nThe exam was first held in 1989, along with Macroeconomics. Grade distributions since 2008 are as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "30857339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30857339", "title": "Academic dress in the United States", "text": "Academic dress in the United States\n\nAcademic regalia in the United States has a history going back to the colonial colleges era. It has been most influenced by the academic dress traditions of Europe. There is an Inter-Collegiate Code that sets out a detailed uniform scheme of academic regalia that is voluntarily followed by many, though not all institutions entirely adhere to it.\n\nBachelor's and master's gowns in the United States are similar to some of their counterparts in the United Kingdom, particularly Oxford. The main differences are that the bachelor's gown is designed to be worn closed and that the sleeves of the modern gown are square at the end instead of pointed as the Code calls for. The master's gown sleeve is oblong and, though the base of the sleeve hangs down, it is square-cut at the rear part of the oblong shape. The front part has an arc cut away, and there is a slit for the wrist opening (which before 1960 was located at the elbow as on British gowns), but the rest of the arc is closed. The shape is evocative of the square-cut liripipe incorporated into many academic hoods (\"see\", below). The master's gown is designed to be worn open or closed.\n\nDoctoral gowns are typically black, although some schools use gowns in the school's colors. The Code calls for the outside shell of the hood to remain black in that case. Doctoral gowns have bell sleeves with three velvet bands on them and velvet facing on the front of the gown. The Code calls for the gown trim to be either black or the color designated for the field of study in which the doctorate is earned, with the proviso that the degree of Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) uses the dark blue velvet of philosophy regardless of the particular field studied. (For example, a Ph.D. in theology would wear velvet gown trim in dark blue, a Doctor of Theology (Th.D.) would wear scarlet trim, or either might choose black.) The robes have full sleeves instead of the bell sleeves of the bachelor's gown. Some gowns expose a necktie or cravat when closed. They are designed to be worn open or closed in the front.\n\nMembers of the Board of Trustees or other governing body officers of a college or university, regardless of their degrees, are entitled to wear doctor's gowns, faced only with black velvet and black velvet bars on the sleeves. However, their hoods (\"see\", below) may be only those of the degree actually held by the wearer (or one specially prescribed by the institution). The color standardization for the outside shell of the hood as black provides flexibility of use and helps facilitate this practice.\n\nThe hood's coloring and size represents the type and subject of degree earned, as well as the institution from which it was awarded. Though no shape is specified in the Code, American bachelors and masters usually wear the Wales simple shape ([s5] in the Groves classification system) with a split salmon cut; doctors wear the same shape but with \"panels\" attached to the sides.\n\n\nCandidates may have the hood ceremoniously placed upon them, as is done at some British universities, or a college or school may 'self-hood' \"en masse\" at the appropriate time during the ceremony. Additionally, the Code allows for the wearing of the hood into the commencement ceremony as part of the academic procession, but only if neither of the two procedures above are being employed. The Code also states: \"It is quite appropriate for the bachelor's gown to be worn without a hood.\" Many institutions, particularly larger ones, have therefore dispensed with the bachelor's hood at commencement ceremonies altogether, though a graduate is still entitled to wear one once the degree is conferred. Both honorary and earned doctoral degrees are very often conferred by the highest academic officer of an institution bestowing the appropriate hood at the podium, regardless of the procedure being followed for other candidates at the ceremony.\n\nOnly one hood should be worn at any given time. The regalia indicating the highest degree attained is usually worn, though the Code seems to allow for a graduate to revert for some occasion to the entire academic costume of a lesser degree earned. Those who hold multiple degrees of the same level (i.e. more than one master's or doctorate degree) may wear at any given time the regalia, in its entirety, of any one degree earned. The Code does not allow for 'mixing-and-matching.' The one exception is for officers of the academic institution who, while wearing a doctoral gown of the University being served, may display one hood from any degree earned from any institution.(see \"Academic robes\", above).\n\nHeadwear is an important component of cap-and-gown, and the academic costume is not complete without it. The headwear may vary with the level of academic achievement and, to some extent, on the individual academic institution's specifications.\n\n\nThere is at some colleges and universities a practice of moving the tassel from one side to the other on graduating, but this is a modern innovation that would be impractical out of doors due to the vagaries of the wind. However, this mark of transition to graduate status has the benefit of taking less time than more traditional indicators such as the individual conferring of the hood or a complete change of dress part-way through the ceremony (as at Oxford in the United Kingdom). In such universities it is common for undergraduates to begin the commencement ceremony with their tassels on the right. Switching the tassel to the left may be done individually or as a group. For doctoral and masters students, the tassel commonly begins and remains on the left.\n\nA number of other items such as cords, stoles, aiguillettes, representing various academic achievements or other honors are also worn at the discretion of some degree-granting institutions. The Code disapproves of their use on or over academic regalia, saying that \"shoes and other articles of visible apparel worn by graduates should be of dark colors that harmonize with the academic costume. Nothing else should be worn on the academic gown.\"\n\nApparel and tokens representing awards and honors are not considered a component of academic dress, not only because the Code suggests avoiding them, but also because (a) they are often worn without the defining cap and gown, and (b) they are usually not worn by a graduate with academic robes after the Commencement year in which the honor was awarded. Nevertheless, they are often seen with academic regalia in the United States, and are therefore mentioned here.\n\n\nThe colors allocated to the various fields of learning have been largely standardized in the United States by the Intercollegiate Bureau of Academic Costume, and accepted by the American Council on Education in its \"Academic Costume Code.\" The color assigned to a given hood trim and/or tassels and—where appropriate—gown facings, should be as closely related as possible to the field studied. For example, one who has earned a degree in animal husbandry would wear the maize of agriculture, as no color is specific to the subject of animal husbandry, and it is generally included within the broader field of agriculture. Less simply, mathematics is traditionally among the liberal arts, which are represented by white, but can also be considered a formal science, represented by golden yellow for science.\n\nThe codified colors associated with the different academic disciplines are as shown below:\n\nThe code calls for a graduate to display the color of the subject of the degree obtained, not the degree itself. For example, if a graduate is awarded a Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree in business, the trimming should be drab, representing commerce/accountancy/business, rather than white, representing the broader arts/letters/humanities; if the BA were in economics, the trim would be copper; if in environmental studies, it would be russet, and so on. If the BA were in a language, a subject within the humanities and not otherwise assigned a unique color, the velvet would indeed be white. Similarly, if a Bachelor of Science (BS) degree is awarded for physics, the velvet trim should be golden yellow, representing physics as one of the natural sciences; however, if the BS were in engineering, the trim would be orange, or if in education, the trim would be light blue. The same method is true of master's degrees and doctorates: a Master of Public Administration in Science and Technology should show trim of golden yellow for science, not peacock blue for public administration; conversely a Master of Science in Public Administration should display peacock blue trim for public administration and not golden yellow for science.\n\nAdditionally, it is problematic when a field of study that does not have its own color assigned to it has been considered to be included in more than one discipline, which are represented by different colors. For example, history has traditionally been considered as among the humanities, represented by white, but is also considered a social science, which can be represented by golden yellow. This is often addressed by an academic institution allowing the degree earned to influence - but not \"determine\" - color assignment. For instance, a Bachelor of Arts graduate in history might display white, while a Bachelor of Science graduate in history at the same institution could properly display golden yellow, and \"vice versa\". This then can create confusion in the first instance by appearing to display colors based on the degree earned rather than, as stipulated in the Code, the academic field studied.\n\nIn 1986, the American Council on Education updated the Code and added the following sentence clarifying the use of the color dark blue for the Doctor of Philosophy degree, which is awarded in any number of fields: \"In the case of the Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degree, the dark blue color is used to represent the mastery of the discipline of learning and scholarship in any field that is attested to by the awarding of the degree, and it is not intended to represent the field of philosophy.\"\nThe doctorate other than the Ph.D. will be represented by the colors indicated above. For example, the Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Public Health should display salmon pink for public health, not light blue for education, and the Doctor of Public Health (DrPH) in Public Administration should display peacock blue for public administration, not salmon pink for public health. The Doctor of Engineering (D.Eng.) degree, if no further specialization was made, should be represented by orange, and the Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) by scarlet if no further specialization, etc.\n\nThe practice of wearing academic regalia in what is now the United States dates to the Colonial Colleges period, and was heavily influenced by European practices and styles. Students at the College of New Jersey (now Princeton University) and at King's College (now Columbia) were required to wear their \"college habits\" at all times starting in 1755 at Princeton and in 1763 at Columbia.\nShortly after the beginning of the nineteenth century, however, academic dress was rarely worn on a daily basis, according to contemporary sources.\n\nAfter the American Civil War, academic dress was generally only worn at ceremonies or when representing the institution, although in some instances the practice has persisted, such as at , where members of one student society continue to wear the gown to class.\n\nAlthough universities that adopted academic dress assigned specific meanings to them, there was no consistency among the various sets of rules. For example, when the University of Pennsylvania adopted its academic dress statute in April 1887 it abolished hoods. Instead, it assigned eight faculty colors that were shown on the gowns’ yokes (the portion over the shoulders).\n\nColumbia adopted an academic dress statute in December of that year. It included the first known American inclusion of the three velvet stripes on the sleeves. Both doctors and masters wore black gowns with sleeve stripes and facing; for masters the velvet was always black, and for doctors the velvet was always purple. Columbia also approved a scarlet gown for doctors’ use on “festal” occasions. Earlier, three stripes adorned the sleeve of a gown depicted in an invitation to Class Day ceremonies at Columbia in 1865.\n\nWhen New York University adopted its own academic dress in 1891, like Columbia it added the three sleeve stripes but permitted them to be worn in the university’s faculty colors. It also adopted the Edinburgh shape in the ([s4] in the Groves classification system) for its hoods. Although NYU gave up this shape when the Code was adopted, Harvard adopted it for all its graduates in 1902.\n\nAlso starting in 1891, Princeton graduates wore a black gown with an orange stripe between the shoulders, making it perhaps the first American gown in a university’s corporate colors.\n\nThese weren’t the only pre-Code gowns in America that departed from black. Hampden-Sydney started using gray gowns in 1893, and the University of the South approved gowns for its higher degrees in the same shapes and colors of Oxford. However, since the university at the time conferred only honorary master’s and doctoral degrees, it’s unknown if anyone ever wore the Oxford-style gowns.\n\nIn June 1893, the trustees of Princeton appointed one of their members, John J. McCook, to look into creating an academic costume that showed the wearer’s degree, faculty, and alma mater, and to discuss the concept with Columbia, Yale, Harvard and other universities with the goal being “the adoption of a uniform academic costume.”\n\nColumbia hosted the meeting with delegates from Princeton (McCook), Yale and New York University attending, and as a “technical adviser” Gardner Cotrell Leonard, whose Albany, N.Y., firm manufactured academic dress. (Harvard waited until 1902 to adopt its academic dress statute, which is recognizable for its inclusion of the university’s nineteenth-century crows’ feet and the use of the Edinburgh simple shape hood [s4]). The meeting took place in either 1894 or 1895 and adopted the Intercollegiate Code of Academic Costume on March 16, 1895. The Code was based on Columbia’s existing statute, and prescribed the cut and style and materials of the gowns, as well as eight colors representing fields of learning. The descriptions, however, are vague compared to the descriptions of academic costume in Europe. For example, no particular shape of hood was specified in the Code (nor has one ever been). The version Americans typically wear is the Wales simple shape [s5] with a split-salmon cut. In the late nineteenth century it was the shape worn by Oxford bachelors; today it is worn by graduates of the University of Wales.\n\nSince 1895, several changes have been made to the Code.\n\nIn 1932 the American Council on Education (ACE) authorized the appointment of a committee \"to determine whether revision and completion of the academic code adopted by the conference of the colleges and universities in 1895 is desirable at this time, and, if so, to draft a revised code and present a plan for submitting the code to the consideration of the institutional members of the Council.\" The committee essentially adopted the Code in whole and changed it in two ways:\n\n\nA Committee on Academic Costumes and Ceremonies, appointed by the American Council on Education in 1959, again reviewed the academic dress code and made several changes. They took effect as of 1960. The significant alterations included:\n\nThese changes were approved in March 1959. In April, the Committee approved the use of maroon for home economy. The color has never been included in any edition of the ACE book.\n\nAs part of the socio-political upheaval of the 1960s in many Western cultures, eschewing academic regalia became a popular means of demonstrating anti-establishment views, particularly in response to the Vietnam War and the Civil Rights Movement in the United States. Student protests, which had the effect of cancelling graduation ceremonies at some American universities, led to a general relaxing of protocols on academic attire and ceremonial pageantry. After the war, academic regalia continued to be shunned by some who considered it a symbol of elitism. However, since the 1980s, academic regalia has been in resurgence. Some colleges or academic departments allow graduating students to vote on whether or not to wear academic regalia at graduation ceremonies.\n\nMore changes were approved by the Committee in 1973, following the “large numbers of requests for advice about academic dress” received by the Committee. The important changes, which first appeared in the 11th edition of the ACE book (published in 1973), include:\n\nThe 11th edition also included a contradiction in selecting a faculty color. Since 1960 the color was to be connected not to the title of the degree but to the discipline studied (e.g. a Bachelor of Arts in Music would wear pink, for music, instead of white etc.). That suggestion remained in the 11th edition, but in another paragraph was the opposite direction: “For the hood, the border [i.e. the edging of the cowl] should be white if the degree is awarded in arts (B.A. or M.A.), golden yellow if in science (B.S. or M.S.).”\nDoctors had similarly confusing advice. Interdisciplinary doctorates could wear the faculty color of any of a number of fields. “Thus,” the 1973 Code states, “urban affairs may be distinguished by copper (economics), peacock blue (public administration), or another field already assigned ...”\n\nDoctoral degrees were clarified in 1987 when all Ph.D. graduates were to wear dark blue as their faculty color. While this was the most visible of changes that took effect that year, it was hardly the only one, and it wasn’t the only change that involved color. Some of the other changes included:\n\nAlthough readers of the Code may believe it to be an enforceable edict, the current version of the Code points out its permissive nature:\n“… it is impossible (and probably undesirable) to lay down enforceable rules with respect to academic costume. The governing force is tradition and the continuity of academic symbols from the Middle Ages. The tradition should be departed from as little as possible … ” In addition, the Committee wrote a memo in 1967 that makes the point directly, pointing out that “the general guidelines are as stated and should not be interpreted as supported by highly detailed and hard-and-fast regulations on file in some central place.”\n\nAlthough today in the U.S. academic dress is rarely worn outside commencement ceremonies or other academic rituals such as encaenia and baccalaureate services, those graduation ceremonies have gained in popularity and have expanded to high school graduations, middle school, elementary school and even kindergarten graduation ceremonies.\n\nMore than 400 universities in the U.S. grant the doctoral degree. Of them, more than 125 use academic dress for their doctors that varies from the guidelines found in the code. Some universities limit their unique costumes for doctors only; others provide it for doctors and masters; some provide it for the upper degrees and bachelors too.\n\nUnique academic dress typically separates itself from the Code’s standards through color. While the Code sanctions black for gowns at the bachelor’s level and above (and grey gowns for the associate’s degree), several American colleges in the late nineteenth century had adopted colored academic dress (see \"History\", above). When the Code was approved in 1895, black became the only approved color for gowns, caps, and hood shells.\n\nAs early as 1912, however, uniformity was challenged. Brown adopted mortarboards for its trustees and fellows in the university color, seal brown. In 1938 Yale began using Yale blue gowns for its masters’ and doctors’ academic dress.\n\nIn 1950 Syracuse began using orange gowns for its academic officers, but not for graduates. Rochester created a red gown for its president and a black gown with gold trim for some of its officers in 1954. In the next year, Harvard adopted crimson for the gowns of its Ph.D. holders. (Later, all Harvard doctors but the J.D. would wear the crimson gown.)\n\nOther Ivy League universities soon followed suit. Princeton adopted a doctoral gown in 1960 whose shape differed slightly from the Code’s standard. The sleeves were somewhat shorter and they were lined in orange; the gown was black with orange trim. The standard shape was recently authorized by Princeton; both are permitted today. Columbia debuted its light blue gowns for all graduates in 1963, following failed attempts in 1948 and 1958 to adopt colored gowns. The gowns Columbia has used since 1963, designed by Jacques Barzun, have a pair of crowns below the yoke; on the bachelor’s and master’s gown they are embroidered onto a tab while they are embroidered directly into the velvet facing of the doctoral gown. Pennsylvania’s distinctive doctoral gown was first used in 1964. It is red but the lower ends of the sleeves are blue.\n\nDeviations from the Code generally fall into one of five categories. Referring to doctoral gowns, these are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48609313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48609313", "title": "After School (app)", "text": "After School (app)\n\nAfter School is an iOS and Android social network mobile application that allows users in a defined network, currently high schools, to share anonymous text-based posts and images with others. As of July 2016, After School had users at more than 20,000 american high schools.\n\nAccording to CEO Michael Callahan, the app was created as a network “that teens could use to express themselves, to reach out to others and to ask for and offer help to fellow teens in distress.”\n\nThe app, created by Michael Callahan and Cory Levy of ONE, Inc., debuted in mid-November 2014. In the re-release of the app in April 2015, After School implemented “mature content” filters, age verification, 24/7 live anonymous support, and FIRST (Fastest Internet Response System for Threats). In February 2016, After School announced raising a $16.4 million Series A round. The app also detects threatening or harmful messages using \"language algorithms\" and \"enforces a single-report immediate user removal for violations.\" \n"}
{"id": "3301787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3301787", "title": "Alliance Israélite Universelle", "text": "Alliance Israélite Universelle\n\nThe Alliance israélite universelle () is a Paris-based international Jewish organization founded in 1860 by the French statesman Adolphe Crémieux to safeguard the human rights of Jews around the world. The organization promotes the ideals of Jewish self-defense and self-sufficiency through education and professional development. It is noted for establishing French-language schools for Jewish children throughout the Mediterranean in the 19th and early 20th century.\n\nThe motto of the organization is the Jewish rabbinic injunction \"Kol yisrael arevim ze laze\" (), translated into French as \"Tous les israélites sont solidaires les uns des autres\" (\"All Jews bear responsibility for one another\").\n\nIn 1860, Alliance Israelite Universelle embarked on a \"mission civilisatrice\" to advance the Jews of the Middle East through French education and culture. It was founded in Paris, and opened its first school in Tetouan, Morocco in 1862. The original members of the society were Jews, and by far the largest number of its members belong to that faith, but the association has enjoyed at all times the sympathy and cooperation of many prominent Christians. As outlined in its prospectus, the program of the society included the emancipation of the Jews from oppressive and discriminating laws, political disabilities, and defense of them in those countries where they were subjected to persecution.\n\nFor the attainment of its objectives, the society proposed to carry on a campaign of education through the press and by the publication of works on the history and life of the Jews. In the beginning, however, the course of action adopted by the society for bringing relief to their oppressed brethren in other countries was to secure the intercession of friendly governments in their behalf. Thus, as early as 1867 the governments of France, Italy, Belgium, and the Netherlands made the renewal of existing treaties with Switzerland conditional upon that country's granting full civil and political rights to the Jews. In 1878, representatives of the Alliance laid the condition of the Jews in the Balkan Peninsula before the Congress of Berlin, as a result of which the Treaty of Berlin stipulated that in Romania, Serbia, and Bulgaria no discrimination should be made against any religion in the distribution of civil rights.\n\nOver time, the activity of the Alliance became more focused on education and especially improving the welfare of Jews. In 1864, an Alliance school opened in Baghdad. In 1870, Charles Netter, a founding member of \"Alliance israélite universelle\", received a tract of land from the Ottoman Empire as a gift and opened the Mikveh Israel agricultural school, the first of a network of Jewish schools in Palestine before the establishment of the State of Israel. Over 60 Alliance schools operated in the Ottoman Middle East, Iran and North Africa, providing Jewish children from poor families with formal elementary school and vocational training. Many of the teachers were educated at Alliance teacher training schools in Turkey and France.\n\nBy 1900, Alliance Israelite Universelle was operating 100 schools with a combined student population of 26,000. Its greatest efforts were concentrated in Morocco, Tunisia and Turkey. French was the third most popular foreign language spoken in Palestine by 1914. Many French speakers came from North Africa but the eleventh Zionist Congress insisted that Hebrew, a holy language should be adopted in preference to German. The AIU agreed that it would be taught on their curriculum.\n\n\"Alliance israélite universelle\" continues to operate dozens of schools and educational programs in Israel today. Historic schools include the Alliance High School in Tel Aviv, \"Alliance israélite universelle\" High School in Haifa, René Cassin High School and the Braunshweig Conservative High School in Jerusalem. The network also includes the School for the Deaf in Jerusalem, in which deaf students, Jews and Arabs, with various mental and physical disabilities study together. The Mikve Israel Youth Village operates a state high school, a state-religious high school specializing in life and natural sciences, environmental sciences, and biotechnology; and a French-Israeli high school established in 2007 as a joint initiative of the Israeli and French governments.\n\nThe Alliance Israelite Universelle (AIU) changed and shaped the roles and opportunities for women in North Africa. Prior to the establishment of the AIU, primarily girls from wealthy or rabbinical families received an education. Literacy and skilled training provided an opportunity for upward social mobility, especially to Jewish girls of underprivileged backgrounds who could not attain an education previously. Curricula featured foundational mathematics, such as arithmetic, exposure to European subjects such as European geography and the French language. Additionally, girls also received vocational training in fields from needlework and sewing, to bookkeeping, secretarial work, laboratory assistance, and industrial chemistry. Many North African women were also educated and trained AIU teachers in France, returning to their home countries to extend the mission of the AIU. Providing vocational training promoted the economic independence of Jewish women in the region.\n\nAlong with economic change, the AIU changed cultural norms for Jewish girls in the Maghreb as well. Primarily, the AIU lobbied to extend the typical marriage age from twelve to fifteen by 1948. This changing role of women led to controversy regarding the secularization of Jewish society through western-style education.\n\nPrior to colonization, rabbis and religious figures provided education. The AIU, and more generally, French colonization, challenged this model. Education shifted from the hands of religious leaders to secular, European instructors. In Algeria, this shift resulted in a legal mandate: in 1845, a law required Jews of Algeria to be registered in a French school, and to only attend a religious school as a supplement. Although the AIU did teach both secular and religious subjects, such as Hebrew and Biblical History, religious leaders still questioned and bemoaned the secular shift the AIU promoted.\n\nSimilarly, the AIU attempted to secularize the experiences of Jews and the legal systems in North Africa. In 1913 in Morocco, the AIU attempted to appeal to the French protectorate government to try \"indigenous [Jewish] inhabitants\" in French courts instead of rabbinical tribunals.\n\nPrior to the AIU, religious systems intersected with cultural and political systems. The AIU sought to secularize not only education, but also the related institutions influenced by religion. Attempting to secularize many aspects of Jewish life, institutions, and cultural norms demonstrates the AIU's extension of the French colonial mission––the school system was not a Jewish educational system, but rather a French colonial system focused on the emancipation and westernization of Jews.\n\nAlong with secularization, the AIU wielded much political power for the political assimilation of North African Jews into French society. AIU instructors were instrumental in the movement of naturalization for educated, Moroccan Jews. These teachers met with French officials, convincing them to expand their Jewish allies by granting naturalization rights to French-educated, intellectual Jewry from Morocco. Only the most educated were considered the \"liberated\", and thus the most qualified to merit French citizenship.\n\nThese conditions represent the AIU's civilizing mission in action: in order to be accepted as French citizens, North Africans must have demonstrated the status of an assimilated Jew who has learned language, culture, and intellectual thought all from the French perspective. Although the AIU provided education and the promise of upward social mobility, these benefits were to be realized within a European context. The French AIU advocated of naturalization attempted to convince both North African Jews and French officials that granting citizenship would create \"Jewish allies,\" suggesting that assimilating Jews through education would build more partners perpetuating the French colonial mission in North Africa.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28767622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28767622", "title": "Basic Safety Training", "text": "Basic Safety Training\n\nThe International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers (STCW), requires that seafarers be provided with \"familiarization training\" and \"basic safety training\" which includes basic fire fighting, elementary first aid, personal survival techniques, and personal safety and social responsibility. This training is intended to ensure that seafarers are aware of the hazards of working on a vessel and can respond appropriately in an emergency.\n\nAccording to STCW, The STCW 95 Code requires that you take this 5-day course of instruction. This course has to be renewed every 5 years, or under certain conditions, you have to show that you have at least 1 year of service on board vessels of 200 grt or more within the last 5 years. The components generally includes a Fire Prevention and Fire Fighting (Basic Fire fighting) course of 2 days, a Personal Survival Techniques (PST) course of 1.5 days, a Personal Safety and Social Responsibility (PSSR) course of half a day, and, First Aid / CPR (Basic First Aid) course of 1 day.\n\nBasic Safety Training or BST is the starting point for persons seeking employment in the maritime industry.\n\nBasic Offshore Safety Induction and Emergency Training or BOSIET is designed for marine personnel intending to work on an offshore installation in the UK maritime sector and forms part of a Common Offshore Safety Induction process.\n\n"}
{"id": "39863186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39863186", "title": "Catalyst Conference", "text": "Catalyst Conference\n\nThe Catalyst Conference (or simply Catalyst) is a series of leadership conferences focused on a new generation of church leaders. \n\nCatalyst was conceived as a next-generation leaders conference in 1999 by Andy Stanley, Reggie Joiner, John Maxwell, Lanny Donoho and other young leaders. The Catalyst Conference takes place annually in Atlanta, Georgia, United States at the Infinite Energy Arena. It is 2–3 days long. Every year Catalyst hosts groups and individuals from nearly all denominations and more than 5,000 churches and faith-based organizations. Andy Stanley, Christine Caine, Robert Madu, Craig Groeschel, Matt Redman spoke at Catalyst in 2014. The conference is a nondenominational Christian event. More than 13,000 people attended Catalyst at the Infinite Energy Arena in 2013.\n\nCatalyst Conferences are now held annually in major cities across the United States. The focus of the events is around worship and leadership development. The conference theme usually kicks off in Atlanta, Georgia, United States at the Infinite Energy Arena. Each year the event focuses on a key leadership theme with opening and closing worship music and main session events during the day. The conference sessions cover various lectures and interview formats.\n\nThe Catalyst Conference goal is to provide individuals with applicable leadership content and memorable experiences that impact their home, church, and work.\n\nPast Themes Include:\n"}
{"id": "976425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=976425", "title": "Christopher Columbus Langdell", "text": "Christopher Columbus Langdell\n\nDean Langdell's legacy lies in the educational and administrative reforms he made to Harvard Law School, a task he was entrusted with by President Charles Eliot. Before Langdell's tenure the study of law was a rather technical pursuit in which students were simply told what the law is. Langdell applied the principles of pragmatism to the teaching of law as a result of which students were compelled to use their own reasoning powers to understand how the law might apply in a given case. This dialectical process came to be called the case method and has been the primary method of pedagogy at American law schools ever since. The case method has since been adopted and improved upon by schools in other disciplines, such as business, public policy, and education. This innovation, coupled with Langdell's introduction of strictly meritocratic principles into the evaluation of candidates, has led him to be considered 'arguably the most influential teacher in the history of professional education in the United States'.\n\nChristopher Langdell was born in the town of New Boston, New Hampshire, of English and Scots-Irish ancestry. He studied at Phillips Exeter Academy in 1845–48, at Harvard College in 1848–50 and at Harvard Law School in 1851–54. As a student, he served as one of the Harvard Law School's first librarians. From 1854 to 1870 he practiced law in New York City, but was almost unknown when, in January 1870, he was appointed Dane Professor of Law at Harvard Law School by Charles W. Eliot. Soon after, he became Dean of the Law Faculty, succeeding Theophilus Parsons, to whose \"Treatise on the Law of Contracts\" (1853) he had contributed as a student. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1870 and received the degree of LL.D. in 1875.\n\nLangdell resigned the deanship in 1895, in 1900 became Dane Professor Emeritus, and on July 6, 1906 died in Cambridge. In 1903 a chair in the law school was named in his honor and after his death the school's primary academic building, housing both the world's largest academic law library and classrooms, was named Langdell Hall.\n\nLangdell made the Harvard Law School a success by remodeling its administration. \nIn a private correspondence of April 13, 1915, Charles W. Eliot wrote: \"the putting of Langdell in charge of the Law School was the best piece of work I did for Harvard University, except the reconstruction of the Medical school in [18]70 and [18]71, and the long fight for the development of the elective system.\"\n\nDean Langdell's greatest innovation was his introduction of the case method of instruction. \nUntil 1890, no other U.S. law school used this method, which is now standard. \nMoreover, the standard first-year curriculum at all American law schools — Contracts, Property, Torts, Criminal Law, and Civil Procedure — stands, mostly unchanged, from the curriculum Langdell instituted.\n\nLangdell, who came from a relatively unknown family, was conscious of the fact that students from more privileged backgrounds often received higher grades in their coursework purely because of their family's wealth and social status. Dean Langdell instituted the process of blind grading, now common at U.S. law schools, so that students already known by professors or from esteemed families would have no advantage over others.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57277352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57277352", "title": "Class of perfection", "text": "Class of perfection\n\nThe class of perfection () is an advanced ballet class for the highest ranking ballerinas in a ballet company. In Russia, the traditional class of perfection has been replaced by the unified company class, but the term may still be used informally for the special classes taken by only the highest ranking dancers in a company.\n\nThe class of perfection at the Imperial Choreographic School was taught by Christian Johansson, who had himself been a pupil of Danish balletmaster August Bournonville. After Johansson, the responsibility of teaching the class passed to his former student Nikolai Legat. Many of Russian ballets legendary dancers were once pupils of Legat's class of perfection including Njinsky, Mikhail Fokine and the most important ballerinas of the time. Ballet mistress Agrippina Vaganova had also been one of Legat's class of perfection students.\n\n"}
{"id": "7001560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7001560", "title": "Coach (basketball)", "text": "Coach (basketball)\n\nBasketball coaching is the act of directing and strategizing the behavior of a basketball team or individual basketball player. Basketball coaching typically encompasses the improvement of individual and team offensive and defensive skills, as well as overall physical conditioning. Coaches also have the responsibility to improve their team by player development, strategy, and in-game management. Coaches also teach and inspire their team to be their best.\n\nCoaching is usually performed by a single person, often with the help of one or more assistants.\n\nA sketch or a hyperdrive board is often used mid-game to describe plays and provide an overview of the strategy of the opposing team. Coaches strategize and scout opposing teams and find ways to defeat them as easily as possible. At the same time, they overlook their own personal team to start the best five players (only five players can be on floor at one time). Coaches, also, have to be aware of subs to put in throughout the game so they can be fresh.\n\nCollege basketball coach John Wooden would spend two hours each morning with assistants planning out a day's practice minute-by-minute on three-by-five cards. He kept each card year over year to adjust and improve. He would train his players with \"mental and emotional\" conditioning by always making practice more intense than the game. Players would run faster than what a game would require so that they could be prepared to dominate in the game.\n\n\nBasketball Coaching Tools\n\n"}
{"id": "5751766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5751766", "title": "Colegio Nuestra Señora de la Altagracia", "text": "Colegio Nuestra Señora de la Altagracia\n\nColegio Nuestra Señora de la Altagracia (often called by the acronym \"CONSA\") is a non-profit Catholic school founded in Santo Domingo in the 1950s by Alicia Guerra. The school includes grades from pre-school through high school.\n\nIt is located in the Los Prados sector of Santo Domingo. It owes its name to Our Lady of the High Grace, patron saint of the Dominican Republic.\n"}
{"id": "44263660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44263660", "title": "Deculturalization", "text": "Deculturalization\n\nDeculturalization is the process by which an ethnic group is forced to abandon its language, culture, and customs. It is the destruction of the culture of a dominated group and its replacement by the culture of the dominating group. Deculturalization is a slow process due to its extensive goal of fully replacing the subordinate ethnic group's culture, language, and customs. This term is often confused with assimilation and acculturation.\n\n\nAfrican Americans\nThe enslavement of African Americans during the 18th and 19th centuries in the United States is a form of deculturalization. Slavery in the United States made the African Americans dependent on their owners allowing for the owners to exploit them. The owners removed their African names, did not allow them to read, and did not allow them to practice their culture and language. Deculturalization of African Americans stems back to When the African American slaves were forbidden access to education due to fear of a slave revolt against the slaveholders. A series of court cases occurred in the United States helping deculturalization of African Americans as wells as there were cases that went against deculturalization. For example, the addition of the 14th Amendment to the United States Constitution, the Dred Scott v. Sandford decision, Brown v. Board of Education, Plessy v. Ferguson, and countless others. After the Civil War (United States) segregated education continued and was a struggle to integrate fully and completely. While integration was achieved, the textbooks that the African American students learn from are bias and contain material from the dominant, Anglo-American culture.\n\nLatin Americans\nThe deculturalization of Latinos can refer back to the Mexican–American War and The Treaty Of Guadalupe Hidalgo. Once the United States won California, Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Nevada, Utah, and parts of Wyoming and Colorado Mexicans who were living in these areas were removed from their lands. Their identity in the United States changed constantly from Mexican to White and vice versa until the word Hispanic was created to refer to these Mexican Americans. By simply using the word Hispanic to refer to the Mexican Americans and later the Latin-American immigrants refers to the conqueror's culture-the Spanish culture. Latin@ in the United States also had segregated schooling. In schools they were given second-hand material from the wealthy, Anglo schools. When Latinos were being integrated, they as well as the African Americans, were being taught from bias, Anglo-cultured, Anglo-praising textbooks. Latinos did have a win to have bilingual education. While they were allowed to have bilinugal education, the primary, enforced language is the English one. In some schools Latinos were corporally punished for speaking Spanish in the classroom. In some Universities, Latinos were also forced to take many speech classes in order to remove the accents of the Latinos when they spoke English. While that is not seen evidently in schools anymore, the education system continues to enforce English, Anglo-American customs, culture and language as the dominant one.\n\nAsian Americans\nAsian Americans began to be deculturalized by not being allowed to be naturalized, the Chinese-Exclusion Act, Japanese Internment, forbidding land ownership, and enforcing the Anglo-culture onto them. The Naturalization Act of 1790 did not allow for the Chinese along with other Asians to become naturalized, because the naturalization process was limited only to the Anglo community in the United States. In terms of schooling, in some cases Asian Americans were denied an education entirely. It was not until the 1900s when Asian Americans were allowed to receive an education through the implementation of certain provisions. In 1855, the Chan Yong case fortified that the Chinese are not \"white\" therefore ineligible for citizenship due to the Naturalization Act of 1790. Also, in 1922, the court case Ozawa v. United States, the Japanese man understood he was not allowed to be naturalized due to the former act, but asked for the Japanese to be considered white, but was denied the request. The Ozawa v. United States shows how some Asians would rather refer to themselves as white than as Japanese or their individual ethnic group, because of the advantages that being \"white\" bring. The enforced Anglo-American culture upon the Asians and using them during the Cold War as a model minority that the United States is not racist, it is the individual's fault allows for deculturalization to be successful. Jade Snow Wong is a Chinese-American writer who was used by the American government to travel to the Asian world and show how an Asian can succeed in America.\n\nPre-Americans\nOnce the first settlement in Jamestown 1607 occurred, the Pre-American deculturalization process began. When the English came to America they looked to the Native Americans as \"pagans\" and \"savages\". Native Americans believed that the land was not property, a thing to be claimed and owned. Once the English settlers arrived this was one of the major culture difference that needed to be extinguished. The idea of private property and ownership was enforced upon the Native Americans. While even those who accepted it, because they understood the consequences, their lands were taken away. They wanted to impose the traditional \"Christian\" nuclear family as well among the Native Americans. In order to gain success the colonists made Native American Educational Programs. Christian missionaries such as John Eliot learned the Native American language in order to convert them into Christianity began the segregation among the \"pagans\" and the \"holy\". The Native Americans were exploited. There was a cultural genocide and simply genocide against the Native Americans. From the Trail of Tears to the appropriation of their designs in order to gain capital, corporate gains.\n"}
{"id": "29699645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29699645", "title": "Diksha School", "text": "Diksha School\n\nDiksha - A Waldorf School is an Indian school based on Waldorf curriculum. It is located in Tumkunta, 14 kilometers from Secunderabad.\n\nDiksha School started operations in 2002 at Sainikpuri, but has shifted to its new campus in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "43089950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43089950", "title": "Doctor Geek's Laboratory", "text": "Doctor Geek's Laboratory\n\nDoctor Geek's Laboratory is an audio show created by Dr. Scott Viguié that operates as STEM outreach (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math) and is used by some homeschooling parents as part of their science curriculum. The show portrays a fictional laboratory populated by humorous characters who are trying to bring about the world of tomorrow today. Most of the episodes include a non-fiction element by interviewing scientists, corporate leaders, and others who are actively working on bleeding edge technology and trying to bring it to the consumer. The first season of the show is available as a box set from Blackstone Audio.\n\n\nDoctor Geek's Laboratory has done live episodes and presentations at many libraries and conventions. The lab hosted its first annual science fair in September 2014 at the South Florida Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "40831606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40831606", "title": "Dual-career commuter couples", "text": "Dual-career commuter couples\n\nCommuter couples are a subset of dual-career couples who live apart in separate residences while both partners pursue careers.\n\nGilbert and Rachlin address the difference between dual-earner families and dual-career families, distinguishing that dual-earner couples are those in which both spouses are earning for the family, but one or both of them consider their occupational involvement as a job. Jobs are unlike careers in that they do not require extensive training or commitment. In dual-earner couples, one spouse's work is generally considered secondary. Dual-career couples are families in which \"both heads of household pursue careers and at the same time maintain a family life together\". Both have high degrees of commitment to their careers, and neither partner's career is thought to be more important than that of the other.\n\nIn the United States, statistics from as early as 1989 report that 53% of married households were dual-earner couples. By 1996, the percent of dual-earner couples grew to 61%. According to data from 1989, approximately 7 million employees (15% to 20% of all dual-earner marriages) were classified as dual-career couples. By 2003, U.S. workers take more than 400 million long-distance business trips (i.e., trips over 50 miles) each year. Commuter marriages are on the rise, with recent estimates indicating that as many as 3 million Americans reside in different locations from their spouses.\n\nThe increase in women’s career opportunities also increases the problems of couples pursuing two careers in the same place, and can cause conflict regarding which spouse’s career should take precedence. One major concern for dual-career couples is finding employment in the same geographic location. One partner usually compromises by taking a less desirable job so that the other can take a position that might further his or her career. However, if this compromise cannot be reached, the option of commuting can be the result, where both spouses enjoy highly desirable jobs at the sacrifice of maintaining separate residences.\n\nIn the definition of dual-career commuter couples, the work pursued by each member of the couple requires 1) a high degree of commitment and special training with increasing degrees of responsibility (this includes students pursuing an advanced educational degree) and 2) that the couple maintain homes in separate geographic locations. Traveling sales or business workers, military personnel, migrant workers, and construction and trade workers who leave home for various lengths of time are not included in the definition. When couples share a home and one or both members commute long distances to work each day or couples immigrating at separate times, they are also not included in this definition.\n\nThe dyad of commuter couples is typically composed of the \"commuter\", who moves to a secondary residence for work, and the \"noncommuter\", who stays at the primary residence. Other terms for the lifestyle are married-singles, commuter marriages, commuter families, commuter lifestyle, and commuter relationships.\n\nResearch reveals that most commuter couples have a high level of education and that both partners have professional or executive careers. Most are between the ages of 25 to 65, the mean age being mid- to late thirties. Forty to 50% of commuter couples have children, and more than 50% have been married for more than 9 years. Most of commuter couples are with advanced degrees and are heavily involved in their careers. The most attractive factor of a job for commuter couples is the job-education match.\n\nAdvantages of the commuting lifestyle are identified as 1) increased career opportunities, 2) professional autonomy, 3) increased independence, 4) increased appreciation of time together, 5) decreased focus on disagreements, and 6) decreased frequency of arguments.\n\nDisadvantages of being commuting couples are 1) financial problems; 2) loneliness; 3) lack of personal and professional support system due to a lack of time to build and maintain these relationships; 4) negative attitudes from friends, family, coworkers, and society; 5) increased tension in marriage and the family; 6) decreased satisfaction with sex life; 7) missed important family moments and day-to-day experiences; and 8) lack of social life, hobbies, and individual projects.\n\nThere has been inconsistent evidence in relation to role conflict in dual-career commuter couples. Role conflict, according to Biddle, is “the concurrent appearance of two or more incompatible expectations for the behavior of a person”, and when a person experiences role conflict, it can have negative effects on multiple aspects of their lives, including decreased job performance and decreased commitment to an organization. In contrast to that definition, findings have shown that many commuters find their lifestyle beneficial in that it allows them to pursue their careers without having to deal with daily family distractions, and also gives them a sense of autonomy. This ability to compartmentalize the roles the individual plays may lead to more work life satisfaction, supported by findings that commuter couples generally had more work life satisfaction than dual-career couples in a single residence. However, there are still challenges faced by commuter couples in their different roles. It would seem that such great compartmentalization can lead some individuals to struggle with balancing both their work and family roles and the responsibilities for each; almost half of commuter couples studied by Anderson reported that they rarely felt that they had a good balance between job and family. Also, families who are commuters are thought to become more competent in their performance of all family-related tasks, suggesting that there is a less traditional division of labor between the husband and wife. However, Anderson and Spruill found that even in commuter couples, most traditional household tasks were still performed by women, while tasks such as household maintenance and lawn-mowing were performed by men. These findings suggest that commuter couples may still be relatively traditional in their role divisions from a gender perspective.\n\nAccording to Festinger (1954) and Social Comparison Theory, when there is no “objective” assessment for one’s abilities or opinions, one will compare themselves to others who are seen to be similar. It is also said that when others have a difference in abilities or opinions, one who is comparing themselves will almost always move their idea of what abilities or opinions are appropriate closer to the comparison others’. In line with this theory, it makes sense that commuter couples would try to compare themselves to other married couples, but it will often pose problems for them because their relationships do differ in many ways. When commuter couples compare themselves to “traditional marriages”, it can cause them a lot of discomfort. This is also true for society’s expectations of a commuter couple; if society compares them to “traditional couples”, they refrain from addressing important aspects of the relationship, and consequently lack a solid understanding. It was found that partners who felt that their peers thought that the commuting lifestyle was the beginning of a divorce experienced more stress.\n\n\"Adjusting\" couples are generally younger with few or no children, and they experience the separation earlier in their marriage. It seems that younger wives generally struggle more with the guilt that their husbands are disadvantaged in some way, and young husbands tend to feel a sense of loss in comparison to a traditional husband. These couples often experience more stress over the conflict of whose career is “more important” than the stress of being apart.\n\n\"Established\" couples are generally older, have been married longer, and have children. With these couples, much of the stress comes from childcare. Generally, husbands will feel some resentment in the increase in responsibilities for the children, while the wives feel guilty about their lessened involvement in their children’s lives.\n\nIn important romantic relationships, attachment refers to strong emotional bonding and the feeling of being secure. To maintain the security feelings, individuals stay in a comfortable range of proximity to their partner. Under certain circumstances, even separation due to planned travel evokes concerns of the partner’s inaccessibility. This inaccessibility may be associated with anxiety, loneliness, and yearning for the partner. Through psychological (e.g., internal representation), symbolic (e.g., pictures), or physical proximity gaining accessibility, individuals calm down and restore security. \n\nThree different attachment styles are identified by attachment researchers: secure, avoidant, and anxiety attached. Those who are securely attached have positive views of the self and their partner, and are confident when seeking proximity to the partner. Avoidant individuals, with two subtypes, generally suppress desires of seeking for partners. Specifically, dismissing-avoidant individuals have a positive self-worth, but have a negative view of the partner, and prefer low emotional involvement. Fearful-avoidants have negative views of both the self and the partner and fear rejection. In contrast, individuals with anxiety attachment styles are hyperactive, continuously seeking and attempting to maintain partner proximity. Those who have anxious attachment styles have negative self-views, and the partner is considered essential to self-worth but insufficiently accessible. The Relationship Questionnaire by Bartholomew and Horowitz (1991) and Experience in Close Relationship Scale by Brennan, Clark, and Shaver (1998) are two commonly used measurements for attachment style. The Relationship Questionnaire assess attachment style by crossing the positive or negative view of self and partner. This questionnaire provides the categorical data, that means to categorize participants into four attachment styles without any scores. The Experience in Close Relationship Scale on the other hand, measures on a seven-point scale. People with lower scores are toward the attachment avoidance end, and people with higher scores are more likely to be attachment anxious style. This scale provides quantitative information about attachment style. Though the two scales can be used separately, they make up the categorical and interval part for each other. Thus, it is recommended to use both of them. The combination of both scales have been proven valid in measuring attachment styles.\n\nSecure attachment is related to positive relationship qualities (e.g., satisfaction; commitment). Although it may seem counter-intuitive, long-distance relationships between securely attached individuals are perceived to be similar in relationship quality to relationships of securely attached individuals who are geographically close. Avoidant and anxious attachment style individuals who are involved in long-distance relationships perceive their relationship as lower quality than avoidant and anxious individuals in geographically close relationships. Commuter couples’ relationship quality are expected to differ based on the individuals’ attachment styles. Recently, research found that commuter couples who meet on a monthly base (i.e., meet more than once a month) relationship quality was influenced by the separation.\n\nSome studies report that many couples do not go through an evaluation of the commuting lifestyle before they engage in it. Although the dual-career commuter couples are generally a highly educated and sophisticated group of people, the majority of the couples studied did not use a systematic decision-making process. The commuter couples did not collect information, talk to other commuting couples, or review other alternatives in making their decision to commute. Instead, the couples simply accepted that commuting was necessary and then discussed what the details of the impending separation would entail. In addition, two thirds of the couples made no plans to reevaluate the effectiveness of their decision to commute. Despite these findings, there are couples who do go through a decision-making process. They are reported to have higher relationship satisfaction than those who did not go through a systematic decision-making process.\n\nFor the individual, there are a few suggestions to be made in regards to becoming a dual-career couple based on implications of past research. First, the division of labor should be discussed and made clear to both spouses, so it each individual’s expectations are apparent. The stability of the relationship should also be considered, as well as the possible reactions each individual might have in response to societal views. The expenses of traveling and each spouse’s history of being alone (i.e., their attachment styles) should be considered as well. Finally, couples should consider discussing the decision with other commuter couples to gain first-hand knowledge. \nOrganization, frequent communication, and rituals have been found to be three of the most important aspects of successfully maintaining a commuting lifestyle. Weekly organized meetings can provide an opportunity for the couple to practice communication, improve organization, take care of household responsibilities, and keep in touch about past and future events. Developing a set of rituals and schedules can help commuter couples ease the stress of departing and reuniting with each other. Rituals such as daily phone calls, sharing dinner while talking on the phone, regular dependable visitation times, a predictable routine for reuniting and departing, special dinner dates for their first nights together, and leaving intimate messages and signs of affection have been found to be helpful for many commuter couples. These rituals help the couple establish a shared history that they can draw on during lonely moments.\n\n"}
{"id": "40472892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40472892", "title": "Edna Beard", "text": "Edna Beard\n\nEdna Louisa Beard (July 25, 1877 – September 18, 1928) was the first woman legislator in Vermont; she was the first woman elected to the Vermont House of Representatives, and the first woman elected to the Vermont Senate.\n\nA native of Illinois, her parents were from Orange, Vermont, and returned there in the early 1880s. Beard was raised and educated in Orange, graduated from Spaulding High School in Barre, and became a school teacher and administrator. She also served in local offices including town treasurer, and operated a dairy farm in partnership with one of her brothers.\n\nIn 1920, the Constitution's Nineteenth Amendment made it possible for women to vote in statewide and national elections. Beard ran for the Republican nomination to represent Orange in the Vermont House of Representatives. She lost, and subsequently filed to run as a third party candidate. 40 women in Orange registered to vote between the primary and general elections, and enough supported her to tip the scales for Beard, who won the seat and became Vermont's first woman state legislator. She served one term, 1921 to 1923, and in 1922 was a successful candidate for the State Senate, becoming the first woman to serve in that body. She left politics in 1924 because of ill health, but remained active on her farm and in her church.\n\nBeard never married or had children. She died in Orange, and was buried at Orange Center Cemetery.\n\nBeard was born in Chenoa, Illinois, the daughter of Royal Edson Beard (1845-1912) and Flora (Curtiss) Beard. Her family was originally from Orange, Vermont, and they moved back to Orange in 1883. She was educated in Orange, and graduated from Barre's Spaulding High School in 1896.\n\nBeard received her qualification as a teacher, and taught at several local area schools. She was both a teacher and superintendent of the Orange town schools beginning in 1906. She also served on the school board, was the town's assistant postmaster, and spent 16 years as town treasurer (1912-1928), after having succeeded to the office following the death of her father, who was the incumbent. Beard never married or had children, and she resided on a dairy farm she operated in partnership with her brother Frank.\n\nIn 1920, passage of the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution enabled women to vote in state and federal elections in Vermont. Beard ran for the Vermont House of Representatives, and lost the Republican primary by six votes to Burt L. Richardson. Beard decided to run in the general election on the \"Citizen's Party\" line. Between the primary and general elections, 40 women in Orange registered to vote for the first time; in November, Beard defeated Richardson by 38 votes, and became the first woman elected to the Vermont House of Representatives.\n\nShe was given the first choice of seats in the House, and, as reported by the \"Rutland Herald\", \"She chose seat no 146, and for a long time no man had the courage to select seat no. 145, which adjoined hers. The seat stood vacant for over an hour until Horatio Luce of Pomfret took the dare of his fellow members and sat down beside Miss Beard amid a storm of laughter and applause.\"\n\nHer first bill in the Vermont House of Representatives, Act 218, was signed into law. It provided $2 a week child support for women whose husbands were \"incapacitated by an incurable disease.\" Her maiden speech in the House was to second the renomination of Judge Stanley C. Wilson to the Vermont Superior Court, which contemporary news accounts indicated was received with \"hearty applause.\"\n\nIn 1922 she was elected to Orange County's seat in the Vermont Senate, and was the first woman to serve in that body. She served one term, 1923 to 1925 and held a leadership role as chairwoman of the Senate Library Committee. Her first successful bill as Senator made it possible for county sheriffs to hire women as deputies.\n\nShe was urged by supporters to enter the race for lieutenant governor in 1924, but left politics because she was in ill health. She was active in her local Congregational church, including teaching Sunday school, singing in the choir, and serving as its clerk, and remained involved with the church until her death.\n\nBeard died in Orange on September 18, 1928. She was buried in the Beard family plot at Orange Center Cemetery in Orange.\n\nA portrait of Edna Beard by artist Ruth Mould is on display at the Vermont State House.\n\n"}
{"id": "33480834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33480834", "title": "Fredrik Stanton", "text": "Fredrik Stanton\n\nFredrik Stanton is an American author and filmmaker.\n\nStanton was a publisher for the \"Columbia Daily Spectator\" while at Columbia University. He has served as an election monitor in Armenia, the Republic of Georgia, Bosnia, Kosovo and Azerbaijan.\n\nStanton's book \"Great Negotiations: Agreements that Changed the Modern World\" was published in 2010. The book was noted as unusual for focusing on negotiating content and the diplomatic process, rather than the direct major policy results or the diplomatic developments which resulted from the negotiations discussed therein.\n\nThe book presents the negotiations in a story-like format that \"reads like fiction\" in order to \"appeal to both casual historians and those more conversant in international relations and foreign policy.\" The book has been considered as a learning tool.\n\n\"Uprising\" is a documentary about the 2011 Egyptian revolution. Stanton was director, writer, and producer of the film. The film includes amateur footage of the protests. The Hollywood Reporter's review stated that the film's presentation was straightforward and informative.\n\nThe film premiered at the Beirut International Film Festival, held October 3—11, 2012.\n\nStanton was a producer for \"Get Me Roger Stone\", a 2017 American documentary film exploring the career of political strategist and lobbyist Roger Stone. The film premiered at the Tribeca Film Festival and has since been available worldwide on Netflix. It garnered critical acclaim and Oscar buzz.\n\n"}
{"id": "47385283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47385283", "title": "Frost Entomological Museum", "text": "Frost Entomological Museum\n\nThe Frost Entomological Museum is an active research institution, associated with the Pennsylvania State University's flagship campus in University Park, PA. The museum houses a research collection, estimated at 2 million arthropod specimens, and a public exhibition and educational space. Although the museum was founded in 1969, much of the collection dates to the early 1900s and even the late 1800s.\n\nThe research collection provides a record of the insect biodiversity of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the eastern and southeastern United States. Major collection holdings include:\n\nOther notable collections, which reflect the interests of the museum’s namesake, Dr. Stuart W. Frost, include leaf miners, light-trapped insects, and arthropods of the Archbold Biological Station.\n\n"}
{"id": "39893334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39893334", "title": "FuseNet", "text": "FuseNet\n\nFuseNet is an organization that unites, coordinates and sponsors European educational efforts in the field of nuclear fusion in order to increase, enhance, and broaden fusion training and education activities in Europe.\n\nThe FuseNet project exists of the establishment of a European Fusion Education Network (FuseNet) for education in fusion science and technology. The purpose of FuseNet is to coordinate and facilitate fusion education, to share best practices, to jointly develop educational tools, to organize educational events. The members of FuseNet have jointly established academic criteria for the award of European Fusion Doctorate and Master Certificates. These criteria are set to stimulate a high level of fusion education throughout Europe.\n\nThe FuseNet project started in October 2008 as a Coordination and Support Action under the seventh Framework Programme, with financial support of the European Commission. The project consists of eleven focused work packages, with a total budget of 2 Million Euro. The project runs until October 1, 2013 and is bringing together a broad representation from the European fusion community with 36 participants from 18 countries, of which 22 Universities and 14 Euratom Associations.\n\nThe project consists of four groups of coordination actions: the establishment and running of the FuseNet network; development of individual learning opportunities and common educational goals; development of educational materials and hands-on experiments; and funding of joint educational activities.\n\nThe FuseNet Association is an independent legal entity that was founded in December 2010 to form the sustainable continuation of the activities started by the equally named FuseNet project. The association provides a platform for the coordination of European fusion education activities, the initiation, development and implementation of new EU-wide actions, and for the exchange and dissemination of fusion education information. All European organizations that are active in the field of fusion education and research are welcome to join the association.\nFuseNet is the umbrella organization and single voice for the training and education of the next generation fusion engineers and scientists. FuseNet is recognized as such by the European Commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "10789112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10789112", "title": "Higher education in China", "text": "Higher education in China\n\nHigher education in China centers on a system of 2,000 universities and colleges, with more than six million students. The system includes Bachelors, Masters and Doctoral degrees, as well as non-degree programs, and is also open to foreign students.\n\nThe Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China (MOE) is the government authority for all matters pertaining to education and language. The MOE notes that higher education in China has played a significant part in economic growth, scientific progress and social development in the country \"by bringing up large scale of advanced talents and experts for the construction of socialist modernization.\"\n\nChina is also a major destination for international students, being the most popular country in Asia for international students, and the third most popular in the world. China is on track to overtake the United Kingdom as the second most popular country for international students by 2020. \n\nThe traditional Chinese education system is based on legalist and Confucian ideals. The teaching of Confucius has shaped the overall Chinese mindset for the past 2500 years. But, other outside forces have played a large role in the nation's educational development. The First Opium War of 1840, for example, opened China to the rest of the world. As a result, Chinese intellectuals discovered the numerous western advances in science and technology. This new information greatly impacted the higher education system and curriculum.\n\nA number of institutions lay claim to being the first university in China. Peking University is the first formally established modern national university of China. It was founded as Imperial Capital University () in 1898 in Beijing as a replacement of the ancient Guozijian (), the national central institute of learning in China's traditional educational system. Meanwhile, Wuhan University also claimed that its predecessor Ziqiang Institute () was the first modern higher education institution in China. On November 29, 1893, Zhang Zhidong submitted his memorial to Guangxu Emperor to request for approval to set up an institution designed for training students specializing in foreign languages, mathematics, science and business. After Ziqiang was founded in Wuchang, not only courses in foreign languages was taught, courses in science (chemical and mining courses starting from 1896) and business (business course starting from the very beginning) were also developed at the school. Later, although the school officially changed its name to Foreign Languages Institute () in 1902, the school still offered courses in science and business. In China, there had been some earlier schools specializing in foreign languages learning, such as Schools of Combined Learning in Beijing (, founded in 1862), in Shanghai (, founded in 1863), and in Guangzhou (), founded in 1864, but few provided courses in other fields, which hardly qualified as modern education institutions. Some argued that Wuhan University can only traced its history back to 1913, when the National Wuchang Higher Normal College () was established, but Wuhan University officially recognized its establishment as in 1893, relying on the abundance of historical documentation and the experts' endorsement.\nIn 1895, Sheng Xuanhuai () submitted a memorial to Guangxu Emperor to request for approval to set up a modern higher education institution in Tianjin. After approval on October 2, 1895, Peiyang Western Study School () was founded by him and American educator Charles Daniel Tenney () and later developed to Peiyang University (). In 1896, Sheng Xuanhuai () delivered his new memorials to Guangxu Emperor to make suggestion that two official modern higher education institutions should be established in Beijing and Shanghai. In the same year, he founded Nanyang Public School () in Shanghai by an imperial edict issued by Guangxu Emperor. The institution initially included elementary school, secondary school, college, and a normal school. Later the institution changed its name to Jiao Tong University (also known as Chiao Tung University, ). In the 1930s, the university was well known in the world as the \"Eastern MIT\" due to its reputation of nurturing top engineers and scientists. In the 1950s, part of this university was moved to Xi'an, an ancient capital city in northwest China, and was established as Xi'an Jiaotong University; the part of the university remaining in Shanghai was renamed Shanghai Jiao Tong University. These two universities have developed independently since then.\nTianjin University celebrated its 100th anniversary in 1995, followed by Jiao Tong University (both in Shanghai and Xi'an) in 1996. Other leading universities, such as Zhejiang University (1897), Peking University (1898), Nanjing University (1902), Central China Normal University (1903), Fudan University (1905)，Tongji University (1907) and Tsinghua University (1911) also recently celebrated their hundredth anniversaries, one after another.\n\nSoviet influence in the early 1950s brought all higher education under government leadership. Research was separated from teaching. The government also introduced a central plan for a nationally unified instruction system, i.e. texts, syllabi, etc. The impact of this shift can still be seen today. Chinese higher education continues its struggle with excessive departmentalisation, segmentation, and overspecialisation in particular.\n\nFrom 1967 to 1976, China’s Cultural Revolution took another toll on higher education, which was devastated more than any other sector of the country. The enrollment of postsecondary students can be used as example to illustrate the impacts. The number dropped from 674,400 to 47,800. This has had a major impact on education in the 21st century. The decline in educational quality was profound.\n\nIn 1977, Deng Xiaoping made the decision of resuming the National Higher Education Entrance Examination (Gao Kao), having profound impact on Chinese higher education in history. From the 1980s on, Chinese higher education has undergone a series of reforms that have slowly brought improvement. The government found that schools lacked the flexibility and autonomy to provide education according to the needs of the society. Structural reform of higher education consists of five parts:\nThe reforms aim to provide higher education institutions more autonomy and the ability to better meet the needs of students. Instead of micromanagement, the state aims to provide general planning.\n\nThe Provisional Regulations Concerning the Management of Institutions of Higher Learning, promulgated by the State Council in 1986, led to a number of changes in administration and adjusted educational opportunity, direction and content. Reform allowed universities and colleges to:\n\nReforms picked up the pace in 2000, with the state aiming to complete the reform of 200 universities operating under China's ministries and start 15 university-based scientific technology parks.\nIn 2002, there were slightly over 2000 higher education institutions in PRC. Close to 1400 were regular higher education institutions (HEIs). A little more than 600 were higher education institutions for adults. Combined enrollment in 2002 was 11,256,800. Of this close to 40 percent were new recruits. Total graduate student enrollment was 501,000. The number of graduates from Chinese higher educational institutions increased from 1 million per year in 2000 to 7 million per year in 2010.\n\nIn 2005, there were about 4,000 Chinese institutions. Student enrollment increased to 15 million, with rapid growth that was expected to peak in 2008. However, the higher education system does not meet the needs of 85 percent of the college-age population.\n\nSince 1998, 10 universities have been targeted by the Chinese government to become “world-class” — including Peking and Tsinghua universities. To achieve that goal, the government promised to increase the education allocation in the national budget by 1 percent a year for each of the five years following 1998. When CPC General secretary Chinese president Jiang Zemin attended the 100th anniversary ceremony at Peking University (Beida) in 1998 and the 90th anniversary ceremony at Tsinghua University in 2001, he emphasized this ambitious goal of advancing several of China's higher education institutions into the top tier of universities worldwide in the next several decades.\n\nIn the meantime, China has received education aid from UNESCO and many other international organizations and sources, including the World Bank, which loaned China $14.7 billion for educational development.\n\nSince 2007, China has become the sixth largest country in hosting international students. The top ten countries with students studying in China include South Korea, Japan, USA, Vietnam, Thailand, Russia, India, Indonesia, France and Pakistan. The number of international students studying in China often ranges around 200,000.\n\nIn spring 2007 China planned to conduct a national evaluation of its universities. The results of this evaluation would be used to support the next major planned policy initiative. The last substantial national evaluation of universities was in 1994. That evaluation resulted in the 'massification' of higher education with a renewed emphasis on elite institutions and education through initiatives like Project 985 in the late 1990s and the Thousand Talents Program which was launched in 2008. \nSince 2010, in some of the elite institutions, there has been an attempt at introducing some aspects of an American-style liberal arts curriculum for selected students.\n\nAccording to data from 2015 of the People's Republic of China Ministry of Education, there were 2,845 Chinese National Higher Institutions, including 2,553 National General Colleges and Universities and 292 Adult Higher Institutions. The number of enrolled college students including undergraduate students, master and PhD students was 23.91 million in 2012.\nFrom 2010 to 2015, the Chinese graduates continued to increase dramatically with almost 7.5 million new graduates entering the job market in 2015. \nInvestment in education accounted for about 4% of total GDP in China in 2015. The Chinese government has been more concerned about education, particularly higher education, in the last decades.\n\nInternational students have enrolled in over 775 higher education institutions in China. Until 2014, there were more than 377,000 foreign students from 203 countries or regions study in China.\n\nAlthough numbers of students have been increasing there are some serious concerns about the quality of education they are receiving and the skills they have at graduation. One study estimates that only 1.2 million of 15.7 million university graduates (or 7.6%) have skills that are valued by international markets for human capital. In other words, the vast majority of students educated in Chinese universities do not have adequate skills to compete in anything but the most local Chinese industries.\n\nA student's score in the National Higher Education Entrance Examination (Gaokao) is the primary consideration used for admission into universities in China. Regional education development imbalance leads to the different treatment of students from different regions. Enrollment rules in China are based on the scores on the Gaokao, but a given university's minimum score threshold varies depending on the province an applicant is from and the degree of competition in applicants from the province. The more you have more top universities in a region, the better chances its students will be enrolled into a top university. The university admission quotes are not based on the area's population but the university’s enrollment plan. In some populous provinces, the competition is extremely fierce, while, in some areas with more institutions, such as Beijing or Shanghai, access to a prestigious university is more attainable.\n\nIn China, according to ownership-based categories of HEIs, the higher education can be divided into two categories---State-owned or government-owned HEIs, including Regular HEIs, Independent Institutions, Higher Vocational Colleges, Adult HEIs, and non-government or private universities Due to the long-time influence by Soviet Union and late development of private universities, it has deeply rooted in Chinese heart that government-owned is much better than private ones. Regular HEIs is the cornerstone in China’s higher education, while private universities development could not be ignored.\n\nAccording to the latest data(2015) of People's Republic of China Ministry of Education, total number of Chinese National Higher Institutions is 2845, including 2,553 National General Colleges and Universities and 292 Adult Higher Institutions. Government-owned HEIs are likely to receive more policy and finance support from official level.\n\nCompared with state-owned universities, private universities’ development is in an awkward position. Different with private universities in Western world, China’s private education is a complement to public universities to meet the needs for those who failed in their college entrance examination and who could not afford the tuition fees to study abroad. Due to the large population, Chinese public universities are impossible to satisfy everyone’s needs. Under this condition, private universities of China come into being. \nThe advantages of their professional setting that more in line with market requirements could not make up for the lack of financial funds and students. Actually, these two factors are equal. The source of funds for them depends largely on students’ tuition fees \nExcept of competition from public universities and other sino-foreign cooperative private institution, the most deadly weakness is that Chinese officials deny acknowledging their degree. In Private Education Promotion Law of the People’s Republic of China, it clearly indicates that “Private university degree is that national recognition of the non national education series, belonging to private colleges awarded diplomas”.\n\nThough followed by “The educated in Private colleges enjoy the same level and rights in further education, employment, social welfare, and participation in advanced selection with the educated public schools” , it can hardly compensate the flaw that the degree belonging to only private colleges awarded diplomas, but no acknowledgement by officials.\n\nThe C9 League (simplified Chinese: 九校联盟; traditional Chinese: 九校聯盟) is an official alliance of nine elite and prestigious universities in mainland China, initiated by the Chinese Central Government through Project 985 to promote the development and reputation of Higher education in China. Together they account for 3% of the country's researchers but receive 10% of national research expenditures. People's Daily, an official newspaper of the Chinese Communist Party, refers to the C9 League as \"China's Ivy League.\"\n\nThis group of 9 elite universities includes Fudan University, Harbin Institute of Technology, Nanjing University, Peking University, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Tsinghua University, University of Science and Technology of China, Xi'an Jiaotong University, and Zhejiang University.\n\nMany other lists of elite Chinese universities exists. The C9 League dominates in terms of faculty recruitment, with disproportionate numbers of faculty who receive China's top two academic awards: the Changjiang (Yangtze River) Scholar award and the Thousand Talents Professorship.\n\nChina exhibits a great need for better regulation as well as more academic qualifications, teaching experience, and understanding of social changes and technology. To achieve success, the state realizes that the impacts of the Cultural Revolution on education must be reversed. To this end, top universities now function as centers of excellence that serve as a model for all other institutes. A helpful model involved \"twinning\" of poorer institutes with model institutes to provide equipment, curricula, and faculty development.\n\nThere is also an issue of funding and equity. Although academic praise reforms for moving the higher education sector from a unified, centralized and closed system to one that allows openness and diversification, they understand that decentralization and semi-privatization has led to further inequity in educational opportunity. Graduate unemployment rates are also a growing concern.\n\nThere is growing concern about the mindset of students produced by Chinese institutions, where cheating is widespread and tolerated. Many corporations feel the quality of rote memorization instilled in Chinese students serves as a detriment to creative thinking and the lack of real-world experience during the formative years negatively impacts students' ability to adapt to the global business environment easily. These issues will need to be addressed in the coming years if China aims to continue its drive for excellence.\n\nUnemployment rates are quite high among Chinese graduates. Because of expansion of universities in China last decades, more students had access to receive higher education. With continuous graduates’ entry into employment market, graduate unemployment is highlighted. China’s recent upsurge in graduate unemployment has specific causes relating to economic development, education policy-making, and reforms in the economy as well as in higher education.\n\nWith China’s rising national strength and popularity of Chinese in the world, China as a study destination attracts thousands of foreign students abroad and the number of foreign students continues to grow rapidly in recent years. According to 2014 data from Ministry of Education of the People’s Republic of China, there are more than 377,054 foreign students studies in all the 31 provinces in China, with an increase of 5.77% over the same period last year. In 2015, a record breaking 397,635 international students went to China, solidifying its position as the third most popular destination country for overseas students. While US and the UK attracted nearly one-third of all globally mobile students, their leadership is under threat in the \"Third Wave\" of political turbulence and intense competition from English-medium Instruction or English-taught Programs in countries like China and Continental Europe.\n\nThe largest source of foreign students comes from Asia, accounting almost 60% of the total, followed by Europe 18%, Africa 11% respectively. For individual country, the top three countries of origins are South Korea (62,923), United States (24,203) and Thailand (21,296). Only 10% of foreign students receive Chinese Government Scholarship and the rest 90% are self-funded.\n\nOn the other side, more Chinese wealthy families are more likely to send their kids abroad to receive higher education. Free academic atmosphere, high-quality teaching quality and new way to cultivate talents---all these advantages contribute to the flood of Chinese students arriving in United States, United Kingdom, Germany and other developed countries. Chinese students have been the largest foreign group in USA since 2010, with 157,588 arriving between 2010 and 2011. The same situation happened in United Kingdom and Germany. Western education will likely remain the leading choice for Chinese students due to its cross-disciplinary fields and development of critical thinking.\n\nChina has a strong demand for postsecondary education, to the extent that its university system currently cannot keep pace with demand. Consequently, universities in the United States, Europe and Australia play a significant role by partnering with Chinese universities, aggressively recruiting Chinese students for study in their host countries, increasing the number of students they send to study in China, and adding to their presence on the mainland, either through official foreign campuses or extensions. Australia, Hong Kong, and other Asian countries are already making strides into this market.\n\nPartnering can be economically salubrious, either if the scholars choose to stay in the host country or return to the mainland. Most Chinese students who go abroad are among the best and brightest from their home country. Thus, if they choose to stay, they can benefit the economy of their host country when they gain employment and become members of their new communities. If they leave, they may maintain the contacts and connections they may have established, and also leave a positive impression on their hosts.\n\nCompared with commonwealth countries’ tuition, tuition of China’s higher education is relatively inexpensive. Nevertheless, the Chinese per capita income is much lower than western countries, so there are still some students from rural and mountainous areas facing funding problems. Chinese government has taken some measures to ensure the smooth enrollment of this group, like students loans, part-time jobs within campus, etc. It seldom has the news that some college students discontinue studies because of lacking of tuition or living cost.\n\nConsidering institution funding, it varies dramatically among different universities. In order to adapt to the fierce global competition in education, Ministry of Education of the People’s Republic of China initiated Project 211 in 90s aiming at strengthening about 100 institutions of higher education and key disciplinary areas as a national priority for the 21st century. On May 4, 1998, President Jiang Zemin declared that “China must have a number of first-rate universities of international advanced lever”, so Project 985 was launched. The total number of Project 985 is 39 and all of them belong to 211 project at the same time. The initial aim is to promote China’s educational competitiveness and establishment of a number of leading disciplines in the world.\n\nMeanwhile, it is also the beginning to widen the gap and cause the imbalanced distribution of scientific research funds between 211 project universities and common public universities. Within the project, it is not only a glory but also hints numerous tangible benefits. The majority of public universities’ development lies to all levels of government funds. Entry in this project means you will gain more research funds. According to another data from Ministry of Education of the People’s Republic of China, from 2009 to 2013, the total government research funding for 39 985-Project institutions is 13.9 billion RMB, with 73 211-Project Institutions approximately 5.1 billion RMB and rest of 670 common undergraduate colleges only 7.9 billion RMB. .\nThe majority of Chinese universities are state-owned universities. The financial support from government level, in most circumstances, decides one university’s development. The imbalanced distribution of scientific research funds will deepen the gap among universities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49273370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49273370", "title": "Hyperloop pod competition", "text": "Hyperloop pod competition\n\nThe Hyperloop Pod Competition is a competition sponsored by SpaceX in 2015–2018 where a number of student and non-student teams are participating to design—and for some, build—a subscale prototype transport vehicle to demonstrate technical feasibility of various aspects of the Hyperloop concept. The competitions have been open to participants globally, although all competitions and judging has occurred in the United States. \n\nFor the 2017 competition, a Bloomberg journalist reported that entrants were required to hand over rights for SpaceX to use any of their technology in the future without compensation, but no requirement to this effect is found in the competition rules.\n\nA fourth year of competition has been announced for summer 2019.\n\nThere were three judging phases in the 2015–2017 competition: a design competition that was held in January 2016, and two on-track competitions—27–29 January 2017, and, Competition Weekend II, 25–27 August 2017. The on-track portion of the competition is run on the \"SpaceX Hyperloop test track\"—or \"Hypertube\"—a mile-long, partial-vacuum, -diameter steel tube purpose-built in Hawthorne, California for the competition.\n\n30 of the 115 teams that submitted designs in January 2016 were selected to build hardware to compete on a sponsored Hyperloop test track in January 2017.\nThere were more than 1,000 applicants at earlier stages of the competition.\nThe first competition completed in January 2017. Delft Hyperloop from the Technical University of Delft won the first overall prize. WARR Hyperloop, from the Technical University of Munich won top honors. In April 2017, 24 teams were selected to compete in Competition Weekend II held in August; WARR Hyperloop won top honors with a top speed in the mile-long test track.\n\nIn August 2018, 18 teams competed in the main competition with top speed as the only judged criteria; two additional teams competed in the levitation sub-competition. WARR Hyperloop again won to honors in the main competition, beating its own record with a 467 km/h (290 mph) run; UCSB Hyperloop was the only team to be able to compete in the levitation sub-competition, thus automatically winning. \n\nIt was announced during Competition III that Competition IV was confirmed to take place in summer 2019.\n\nThe outline of the original Hyperloop concept was made public in August 2013 by the release of a preliminary—or alpha level—design document by Elon Musk, with substantial design assistance from an informal group of engineers at both Tesla Motors and SpaceX who worked on the conceptual foundation and modelling of Hyperloop. The preliminary design called for a steel tube, operating in partial vacuum (nearly airless), utilizing pressurized vehicle \"pods\" to carry passengers or cargo that would ride on an air cushion driven by linear induction motors and air compressors. The alpha design included a notional route running from the Los Angeles region to the San Francisco Bay Area, paralleling the Interstate 5 corridor for most of its length, so that preliminary economic analysis might be done on the concept.\nResponses to the design paper release included: \"a flash of brilliance\" and \"hypercool\" to \"nothing new here\" to \"hype\", \"another science-fiction dream,\" and \"completely impractical.\"\n\nWithin days of the 2013 announcement, discussions concluded that building a successful Hyperloop subscale demonstration project could reduce the political impediments while improving cost estimates; Musk suggested that he could choose to become personally involved in building a demonstration prototype of the Hyperloop concept, including funding the development effort.\n\nOn 15 June 2015, SpaceX announced that they would sponsor a Hyperloop pod design competition, and would build a subscale test track near SpaceX's headquarters in Hawthorne, California, for the competitive event. The competition could be held as early as June 2016.\nSpaceX stated in their announcement, \"Neither SpaceX nor Elon Musk is affiliated with any Hyperloop companies. While we are not developing a commercial Hyperloop ourselves, we are interested in helping to accelerate development of a functional Hyperloop prototype.\"\nMore than 700 teams had submitted preliminary applications by July.\n\nDetailed competition rules were released for the first competition in August 2015, with revisions in October.\nFormal \"Intent to Compete\" submissions were due 15 September 2015 with SpaceX intending to release the detailed tube and technical specification by October 2015 but became available somewhat later.\nA preliminary design briefing was held in November 2015, and , \"Final Design Packages\" were due on 13 January 2016. A \"Design Weekend\" was held at Texas A&M University on 29–30 January 2016 for all invited entrants. The selected pods will compete at the \"SpaceX Hyperloop Test Track\" in January 2017.\n\nMore than 120 student engineering teams were selected from the preliminary design briefing presentations in November to submit final design packages in January 2016. The designs were released to public view prior to the end of January 2016, and selected teams were invited to build hardware and compete in time trials, planned for mid-2016 at the time.\n\nSpaceX announced in January 2016 that they had engaged a Los Angeles-based, Fortune-500, engineering design and construction firm AECOM to build the Hyperloop test track.\n\nAt a 29–30 January 2016 meeting at Texas A&M University, hosted by the College of Engineering, the designs from the approximately 120 worldwide teams were reviewed and judged. 30 teams were selected to go forward and build prototype Hyperloop pods for the competition later in the year.\n\nOn 30 January 2016, Musk announced that, due to the level of sophistication of the pod designs as well as design issues with economical design approaches to building the test track, \"given this level of enthusiasm, there is no question we are going to have another Hyperloop competition.\" Further information came in August 2016: the team sign-up deadline would be 30 September 2016 to compete in the second pod competition sometime in 2017.\n\nIn the event, the mid-2016 competition schedule was delayed to January 2017. TechCrunch published a photograph of the pod competition test track still under construction in September 2016.\nCompetition teams visited the track for fit checks and vacuum/track tests during the first week of November, and a video was released.\n\nThe on-track portion of the competition finally got underway on 27 January 2017.. WARR Hyperloop, from the Technical University of Munich won top honors.\n\nIn April 2017, 24 teams were selected to compete in \"Competition Weekend II.\" Held in August 2017, WARR Hyperloop won top honors once again, this time with a top speed in the mile-long test track.\n\nIn September 2017, SpaceX announced that they would sponsor another competition in the third quarter of 2018.\nAs with the \"Competition Weekend II\" in 2017, only student teams may enter the competition, and the \"competition will be judged solely on one criteria: maximum speed with successful deceleration (i.e. without crashing).\" Unlike the two test track competitions in 2017 however, all pods must be self-propelled. SpaceX will not provide an external pusher-vehicle as they did provide to facilitate student team pod testing in both the January and August 2017 competitions. Ultra-small pods will not be allowed this time, with minimum pod length set at . There will be an additional sub-competition with up to three qualifying teams allowed to take part in a \"Levitation Sub-Competition\" that will require non-wheeled pod levitation and will be tested on an external (non-vacuum) test track. The pods will need to translate at least down the track, stop, reverse, and translate back to the original position, all while levitating the entire duration. Fastest full cycle wins the levitation sub-competition.\nThe 2018 competition will take place 22 July 2018.\n\n, Steve Davis—who joined SpaceX as employee no. 9 in 2003, and is current project leader for The Boring Company—has been the operations manager for the Hyperloop Pod Competition since inception. \n\nEach competition has taken place on a , test track built in southern California.\nTest pods may not carry any human or animal, and are to be used solely to develop new technologies and subsystems for effecting higher-velocity tube transport systems.\nThe track will facilitate pod test runs where each pod is accelerated, achieves a top measured speed that is reported in real-time, and then decelerates by braking, ostensibly before the end of the test track. There will be a crash pit after the end of the track to absorb the energy of any test pods that fail to come to a stop in the test track tube.\n\nThe SpaceX Hyperloop test track — or \"Hypertube\" — was designed in 2015 and was constructed in 2016, reaching its full length of one mile by October 2016. The test track itself is also a prototype, where SpaceX anticipates learning from the design, build process and evaluates how to apply automated construction techniques to future Hyperloop tracks.\n\nThe design of the pod test track varies significantly from the Hyperloop tube design shown in the initial alpha-level Hyperloop design concept document released in 2013.\nThe Hypertube test track is designed to enable competitors who implement a wide array of designs and build pods that will test a variety of subsystem technologies that are important to new vehicle transport systems. This will include Hyperloop-specific pods—with air-bearing suspension and low-pressure compressor designs—as well as wheeled vehicle and magnetic levitation rail designs that will support a wide array of vehicle technologies to be tested. Some pods are expected to test only particular subsystems rather than a full Hyperloop-capable pod vehicle design; as well, many pods will have no on-pod compressor to prevent the high-speed choked-flow problem, very unlike the Hyperloop alpha design.\n\nMultiple systems will be allowed for propulsion and for levitation/suspension of various team pods. Three explicit suspension types are called out: wheels, air bearings, and magnetic levitation. Pod propulsion may be \"On-pod\"—as envisioned in the alpha Hyperloop design—or for the Hypertube test track, may use a SpaceX-provided \"Pusher\" to accelerate pods up to speed in the first 15 percent of track length, or even be unique (team-specific) \"Off-pod\" propulsion systems that would need to be integrated into the Hypertube for that Pod's specific test run.\n\nThe test track specifications include:\n\nThree variations of exterior design are currently being explored for vehicle pods. One pod design uses air bearings; this design relies on a system to create a bed of air for the pod to glide upon and is the basis of Elon Musk’s original Hyperloop idea. Another pod design uses magnetic levitation; this design was used by the winner of the “Best Overall Design Award” MIT. The third design uses high speed wheels for speeds under 100 mph and air bearings for higher speeds. This design was used by University of Colorado, Denver's Hyperlynx team.\n\nThe inside design of the pods vary by team. Some of the teams are solely building pods designed for cargo transport. Other teams designed pods to transport passengers, while other designs would allow adjustments to be made to the pod to allow both, while MIT's team's initial design did not have room for a passenger or cargo and solely relied on the engineering of the pod. The University of Colorado, Denver's team incorporated a removable capsule that allows it to be exchanged for a cargo hold or passenger space. New York University's team has created a vehicle that only allows cargo transportation.\n\nTeams advancing to the prototype hardware build stage for 2016 include representatives from four continents and at least six countries. The selected teams include:\n\nFive design awards were assigned following the January design weekend.\n\n\"MIT Hyperloop Team's\" design was awarded received the \"Best Overall Design Award\", among the 23 designs selected to move to the prototype stage. The design proposes a 250 kg (551 lb) pod with a carbon fiber and polycarbonate sheet exterior. It is elevated by a passive magnetic levitation system comprising 20 neodymium magnets that will maintain a 15 mm (0.6 in) distance above the track.\nThe team says with air pressure at 140 Pascals, the pod could accelerate at 2.4 G and have 2 Newton aerodynamic drag when traveling at 110 m/s. The design includes a fail-safe braking system that automatically halts the pod should the actuators or computers fail, and low speed emergency drive wheels that can move the pod 1 m/s.\n\n\"Delft Hyperloop\" received a \"Pod Innovation Award\",\nwhile \"Badgerloop\", \"Hyperloop at Virginia Tech\", and \"HyperXite\" at UC Irvine each received a \"Pod Technical Excellence Award\". One award for \"Best Non-Student Team\" was awarded to \"rLoop\", a team which formed on the SpaceX subreddit.\n\nIn addition to the five pod awards above, nine subsystem awards and three \"design only\" awards were given to teams, most to teams that were not chosen to continue on to the on-track competition.\nTechnical awards for outstanding technical merit in subsystem and design, based on \"innovation and uniqueness of subsystem design, full Hyperloop system applicability and economics; level of design detail; strength of supporting analysis and tests; and quality of documentation and presentation.\"\nBest Overall Subsystem Award: Auburn University Hyperloop Team, Auburn University; Safety Subsystem Technical Excellence Award: UWashington Hyperloop, University of Washington; Special Innovation Award in the Other Subsystem: RIT Imaging, Rochester Institute of Technology; :Levitation Subsystem Technical Excellence Award: TAMU Aerospace Hyperloop, Texas A&M; Braking Subsystem Technical Excellence Award: VicHyper, RMIT University; Propulsion/Compression Subsystem Technical Excellence Award: Makers UPV Team, Universitat Politècnica de València; Subsystem Technical Excellence Awards: Hyped, University of Edinburgh; Conant Hyperloop Club, Conant High School; Subsystem Innovation Award: Ryerson’s International Hyperloop Team, Ryerson University.\nTop Design Concept Award: Makers UPV Team (see above); Design Concept Innovation Award: Nova Hyperloop Team, University of Cairo; Design Concept Innovation Award: Auburn University Hyperloop Team (see above).\n\nPhase 2 of the competition ran 27–29 January 2017 after previously being planned for as early as August 2016. 27 teams competed in two overall categories and five subcategories. Each pod in the competition needed to progress through ten sequential tests, only the last of which would be a vacuum-environment speed run in the mile-long Hypertube. Problems with dust and misalignment of the track limited performance and caused widespread problems. Just three of the competition pods successfully completed the nine tests that enabled them to make a vacuumized tube run on 29 January. The winning teams were:\n\n\n\nThe SpaceX \"Hyperloop Pod Competition II\" was held on 25–27 August 2017.\nThe rules for Competition II were released in August 2016. Unlike Competition I — where multiple judging criteria were used and multiple classes of vehicles and vehicle subsystems were judged — Competition II was judged by a single criterion: \"maximum speed with successful deceleration (i.e. without crashing).\"\n\nWhile approximately 24 teams competed, only the top three were selected to make test runs in the mile-long \"Hypertube\" test track. \"WARR Hyperloop\" won the competition with a test run clocked at . \"Paradigm Hyperloop\" won second and \"Swissloop\" placed third.\n\nAs of April 2017, 24 teams had been qualified to participate in the August 2017 competition. It is unclear how many teams actually participated.\n\nThe rules for Competition III were released in September 2017. One substantial change from Competition II was that \"All Pods must be self-propelled. SpaceX [would] not provide an external Pusher\" as they had on offer for teams during the first two pod competitions.\n\nThe competition began with the testing week prior to competition weekend where teams were required to pass a series of comprehensive safety tests in order to eligible for a run in the vacuum tube. \n\nSeveral teams encountered difficulties during the week, including fried circuit boards and overheated batteries. However, six teams passed the final \"open-air run\" and were eligible for the final competition. \n\nThree teams (Delft Hyperloop, WARR Hyperloop, and EPFLoop) were ultimately the only final competitors. \n\nThe final competition took place during the competition weekend on 22 July 2018. Each team demonstrated their respective pods while the \"tube runs\" took place for the final three competitors. Netherland's Delft Hyperloop was first to make an attempt with a top speed of 88 mph before stalling in the tube. Switzerland's EPFLoop was second, yet complications led to a top speed of only 55 mph. \n\nGermany's WARR Hyperloop were the defending champions, and beat their own record with a top speed of 290 mph during their run. \n\nThree awards were later given out to WARR Hyperloop for their innovation in designing and building two pods; one for the main competition and the other for the levitation sub-competition. The other two awards went to the University of Washington Hyperloop team and Ireland's ÉirLoop.\n\n"}
{"id": "12496798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12496798", "title": "Independent Educational Consultants Association", "text": "Independent Educational Consultants Association\n\nThe Independent Educational Consultants Association is a professional organization for educational consultants.\n\nThe Independent Educational Consultants Association is the international, professional organization representing school and college admission counselors working in private practice. The organization, founded in 1976, represents educational consultants who advise students and families on admission to private schools, colleges, summer programs, gap year opportunities or programs for teens who are acting out. Headquartered in Fairfax, Virginia in suburban Washington DC, IECA establishes Principles of Good Practice, holds training programs for those entering the field, hosts two international conferences each year, coordinates counselor tours of college and school campuses, publishes a variety of materials and serves as the public face of this fast-growing profession.\n\nMembership in the Independent Educational Consultants Association demonstrates that one has met rigorous standards. Those seeking membership must have a minimum of three years of admission experience, hold a master's degree or higher, have visited and evaluated a minimum of 50 campuses, provide references from among both professional colleagues and parents, and have their marketing materials thoroughly reviewed by a panel of peers. The IECA is an extremely rigorous membership. Only 7% of those who inquire about membership are ultimately accepted, making membership akin to licensure in this unregulated profession. Only the most qualified and experienced independent educational consultants in the United States are recognized with the designation as a \"Professional Member\" within the IECA. This designation demonstrates that the consultant is an expert in their specific domain and holds advanced degree/s in multiple disciplines relating to education, psychology, special education, school law, school improvement, school leadership and/or college admissions.\n\nThe association has established the IECA Foundation, which seeks to support programs providing educational and college counseling to students and communities who could not normally afford such services. In the past decade the foundation has provided more than a half a million dollars in support to groups across the United States.\n\nThe association's executive director is Mark Sklarow, a known and respected educational leader who has served as executive director of Presidential Classroom and City at Peace, two not-for-profit educational organizations. Sklarow is a former school dean in Philadelphia where he taught high school social science and political science at the university level, and served as director of student councils in the City of Philadelphia and director of summer leadership programs in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.\n\n"}
{"id": "178923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=178923", "title": "Initial Teaching Alphabet", "text": "Initial Teaching Alphabet\n\nThe Initial Teaching Alphabet (I.T.A. or i.t.a.) is a variant of the Latin alphabet developed by Sir James Pitman (the grandson of Sir Isaac Pitman, inventor of a system of shorthand) in the early 1960s. It was not intended to be a strictly phonetic transcription of English sounds, or a spelling reform for English as such, but instead a practical simplified writing system which could be used to teach English-speaking children to read more easily than can be done with traditional orthography. After children had learned to read using I.T.A., they would then eventually move on to learn standard English spelling. Although it achieved a certain degree of popularity in the 1960s, it has fallen into disuse.\n\nThe I.T.A. originally had 43 symbols, which was expanded to 44, then 45. Each symbol predominantly represented a single English sound (including affricates and diphthongs), but there were complications due to the desire to avoid making the I.T.A. needlessly different from standard English spelling (which would make the transition from the I.T.A. to standard spelling more difficult), and in order to neutrally represent several English pronunciations or dialects. In particular, there was no separate I.T.A. symbol for the English unstressed schwa sound , and schwa was written with the same letters used to write full vowel sounds. There were also several different ways of writing unstressed / and consonants palatalized to , , , by suffixes. Consonants written by double letters or \"ck\", \"tch\" etc. sequences in standard spelling were written with multiple symbols in I.T.A.\n\nThe I.T.A. symbol set includes joined letters (typographical ligatures) to replace the two-letter digraphs \"wh\", \"sh\", and \"ch\" of conventional writing, and also ligatures for most of the long vowels. There are two distinct ligatures for the voiced and unvoiced \"th\" sounds in English, and a special merged letter for \"ng\". There is a variant of the \"r\" to end syllables, which is silent in non-rhotic accents like Received Pronunciation but not in rhotic accents like General American and Scots English (this was the 44th symbol added to the I.T.A.).\n\nThere are two English sounds which each have more than one I.T.A. letter whose main function is to write them. So whether the sound is written with the letters \"c\" or \"k\" in I.T.A. depends on the way the sound is written in standard English spelling, as also whether the sound is written with the ordinary \"z\" letter or with a special backwards \"z\" letter (which replaces the \"s\" of standard spelling where it represents a voiced sound, and which visually resembles an angular form of the letter \"s\"). The backwards \"z\" occurs prominently in many plural forms of nouns and third-person singular present forms of verbs (including \"is\").\n\nEach of the I.T.A. letters has a name, the pronunciation of which includes the sound that the character stands for. For example, the name of the backwards \"z\" letter is \"zess\".\n\nA special typeface was created for the I.T.A., whose characters were all lower case. Where capital letters are used in standard spelling, the I.T.A. simply used larger versions of the same lower-case characters. The following chart shows the letters of the 44-character version of the I.T.A., with the main pronunciation of each letter indicated by symbols of the International Phonetic Alphabet beneath:\n\nNote that \"d\" is made more distinctively different from \"b\" than is usual in standard typefaces (which is possible since in the I.T.A. there is no \"q\").\n\nLater a 45th symbol was added to accommodate accent variation, a form of diaphonemic writing. In the original set, a \"hook a\" or \"two-storey a\" (a) was used for the vowel in \"cat\" (lexical set TRAP), and a \"round a\" or \"one-storey a\" (ɑ) for the sound in \"father\" (lexical set PALM). But lexical set BATH (words such as \"rather\", \"dance\", and \"half\") patterns with PALM in some accents including Received Pronunciation, but with TRAP in others including General American. So a new character, the \"half-hook a\", was devised, to avoid the necessity of producing separate instructional materials for speakers of different accents.\n\nAny advantage of the I.T.A. in making it easier for children to learn to read English was often offset by some children not being able to effectively transfer their I.T.A.-reading skills to reading standard English orthography, and/or being generally confused by having to deal with two alphabets in their early years of reading. Certain alternative methods (such as associating sounds with colours, so that for example when the letter \"c\" writes a sound it would be coloured with the same colour as the letter \"k\", but when \"c\" writes an sound it could be coloured like \"s\", as in \"Words in Colour\" and \"Colour Story Reading\") were found to have some of the advantages of the I.T.A. without most of the disadvantages. Though the I.T.A. was not originally intended to dictate one particular approach to teaching reading, it was often identified with phonics methods, and after the 1960s, the pendulum of educational theory swung away from phonics.\n\nThe I.T.A. remains of interest in discussions about possible reforms of English spelling. There have been attempts to apply the I.T.A. using only characters which can be found on the typewriter keyboard or in the basic ASCII character set, to avoid the use of special symbols.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43950188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43950188", "title": "Iraqi Jewish Archive", "text": "Iraqi Jewish Archive\n\nThe Iraqi Jewish Archive is a collection of 2,700 books and tens of thousands of historical documents from Iraq's Jewish community found by the United States Army in the basement of Saddam Hussein's intelligence headquarters during the US invasion of Iraq in 2003.\n\nThe collection includes a wide variety of books and rare documents, ranging from 500-year-old commentaries on the Talmud to personal letters sent during the 1950s. These materials were abandoned during Operation Ezra and Nehemiah, when almost all Iraqi Jews made aliyah to Israel on the condition (imposed by the Iraqi government) that they leave their property behind. The Intelligence Agency of the Iraqi regime subsequently gathered these books and documents from synagogues and Jewish community institutions, eventually storing them in the basement where they would be found by the US Army.\n\nThe archive has been in temporary US custody since 2003, and is scheduled to be transferred permanently to Iraq in 2018. This plan is controversial: some Middle-East scholars and Jewish organizations have opined that because the materials were abandoned under duress, and because almost no Jews live in Iraq today, the archive should instead be housed in Israel or the United States.\n\nThe archive was found by the United States Army in 2003 in a flooded basement. It was rescued due to a book freezing process on special trucks. With the consent of the provisional Iraqi government, the archive was transferred to the National Archives of the United States in Washington, DC. At a cost of $3 million, the archive was digitized and is fully available online.\nThe documents are written in Hebrew, Arabic, Judeo-Arabic, and English. Certain irreparably damaged kosher scrolls (such as Torah scrolls and scrolls containing the Book of Esther) were ritually buried in accordance with Jewish law.\n\nThe US National Archives' custody of the Iraqi Jewish Archive is temporary, and the United States is contractually obligated to return the collection to Iraq. This has engendered some opposition on the grounds that the collection rightfully belongs to Iraqi Jews, almost none of whom currently reside in Iraq. Harold Rhode, a Middle East specialist formerly at the Pentagon who was present when the collection was found, has suggested that it should be placed permanently in Israel.\n\nIn February 2014 the United States Senate unanimously passed a resolution calling on President Barack Obama to reopen new negotiations over the agreement on the archive return to Iraq. In May of the same year, the governments of the United States and Iraq had reached an agreement that most of the items of the archive would remain in the United States until September 2018. In September 2017, the State Department said it would not seek to further extend the agreement, but in July of 2018 reversed course and announced that it would work with the Iraqi government to delay the return of the archive.\n\n"}
{"id": "818667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=818667", "title": "James Boyle (academic)", "text": "James Boyle (academic)\n\nJames Boyle (born 1959) is a Scottish intellectual property scholar who is the William Neal Reynolds Professor of Law and co-founder of the Center for the Study of the Public Domain at Duke University School of Law in Durham, North Carolina. He is most prominently known for his advocating for loosening copyright policies in the United States and worldwide.\n\nBoyle graduated from the University of Glasgow in 1980 and subsequently studied at Harvard Law School. He joined Duke University School of Law in July 2000. He had previously taught at American University, Yale, Harvard, and the University of Pennsylvania Law School.\n\nIn 2002, he was one of the founding board members of Creative Commons, and held the position of Chairman of the Board in 2009, after which he stepped down. He also co-founded Science Commons, which aims to expand the Creative Commons mission into the realm of scientific and technical data, and ccLearn, a division of Creative Commons aimed at facilitating access to open education resources.\n\nIn 2006, he earned the Duke Bar Association Distinguished Teaching Award.\n\nThe courses he teaches include \"Intellectual Property\", \"The Constitution in Cyberspace\", \"Law and Literature\", \"Jurisprudence\", and \"Torts\".\n\nHe is the author of \"Shamans, Software and Spleens: Law and Construction of the Information Society\" as well as a novel published under a Creative Commons license, \"The Shakespeare Chronicles\".\n\nIn his work on intellectual property, \"The Public Domain: Enclosing the Commons of the Mind\" (2008), Boyle argues that the current system of copyright protections fails to fulfill the original intent of copyright: rewarding and encouraging creativity. It was also published under a non-commercial CC BY-NC-SA Creative Commons license.\n\nBoyle also contributes a column to the \"Financial Times\" New Technology Policy Forum.\n\nIn 2011, Boyle was one of five experts consulted for the \"Hargreaves Review of Intellectual Property and Growth\", a comprehensive analysis of the United Kingdom's intellectual property system that made suggestions for data-driven reform of the system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4391349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4391349", "title": "Jay David Bolter", "text": "Jay David Bolter\n\nJay David Bolter (born August 17, 1951) is the Wesley Chair of New Media and a professor in the School of Literature, Media, and Communication at the Georgia Institute of Technology. His areas of study include the evolution of media, the use of technology in education, and the role of computers in the writing process. More recently, he has conducted research in the area of augmented reality and mixed media. Bolter collaborates with researchers in the Augmented Environments Lab, co-directed with Blair MacIntyre, to create apps for entertainment, cultural heritage and education for smart phones and tablets. This supports his theory regarding remediation where he discusses \"all media functions as remediators and that remediation offers us a means of interpreting the work of earlier media as well\" (Bolter & Grusin, 2000, p. 55).\n\nBolter received his B.A. degree in Greek from Trinity College, in the University of Toronto, in 1973. In 1977 and 1978 he received his Ph.D. in Classics and an M.S. in Computer Science, both from the University of North Carolina.\n\nBolter received prominent fellowships at Yale University, Cornell University, University of Göttingen, and with the American Council of Learned Societies.\n\nFrom 1979 until 1991, Bolter held various faculty positions at the University of North Carolina. In 1991 he moved to the Georgia Institute of Technology, where he remains today.\n\nAlong with John B. Smith and Michael Joyce, Bolter co-created Storyspace, a software program for creating, editing, and displaying hypertext fiction. It was developed to support hypertext fiction in particular, although it can also be used for organizing and writing fiction and non-fiction intended for print. Although always credited as a coauthor of Storyspace with Joyce and Bolter, Smith wanted to clarify in an interview that he wasn’t involved in the development of either TALETELLER (which was a precursor to Storyspace) or Storyspace — but that he made more of an intellectual contribution insofar as \"there was a sort of cloud of ideas that we were all drawing on in the discussions we’d have in this research entity at UNC, Textlab\" \n\nSome of the notable hypertext fictions created in Storyspace include: Michael Joyce's \"afternoon, a story\", Stuart Moulthrop's \"Victory Garden\" and Shelley Jackson's \"Patchwork Girl\".\n\nBolter has used Storyspace to revise several of his own books. More importantly, Storyspace provides facilities for writing and editing, which includes a map of the structure of the links, making it accessible for new users. Storyspace is currently being developed by Mark Bernstein of Eastgate Systems.\n\nBrian Eno has referred to Bolter as \"the new Gutenberg.\" \n\nBolter states in \"Writing Space: Computers, Hypertext, and the Remediation of Print\" that \"Hypertext in all its electronic forms — the World Wide Web as well as the many stand-alone systems — is the remediation of print\".\n\nJay David Bolter and his writing partner, Richard Grusin, make the claim in their text \"Remediation: Understanding New Media, \"\" At this point, all mediation is remediation.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "249502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=249502", "title": "Job Corps", "text": "Job Corps\n\nJob Corps is a program administered by the United States Department of Labor that offers free-of-charge education and vocational training to young men and women ages 16 to 24.\n\nJob Corps' mission is to help young people ages 16 through 24, improve the quality and satisfaction of their lives through vocational and academic training. \n\nThe Job Corps was originally designed by a task force established by Labor Secretary Willard Wirtz reporting to his Manpower Administrator Sam Merrick. In 1962, the youth unemployment rate was twice the non-youth employment rate and the purpose of the initiative was to create a program whereby Youth members of the program could spend 1/2 of their time improving national parks and forests and the other 1/2 of their time improving their basic education skills which were severely limiting their occupational accomplishments. The Job Corps Task Force initially recommended that Job Corps programs be limited to Federal National Parks, National Forests, and other Fedral Lands.\n\nBy the Kennedy assassination in 1963, the Job Corps' operational plans, costs, and budgets had been well developed, including coordination with the U. S. Forest Service and the U. S. Park Service, and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) executed among the agencies. Initiating legislation and budgetary authorizations were drafted and submitted by the Kennedy Administration which in turn were submitted and introduced in both houses of Congress.\n\nWhen President Johnson and his planning staff decided on the War on Poverty, most of the proposed programs would take more than a year to even start. However the Job Corps idea was well along in the planning stage and could be deployed rapidly, so the Labor Department Job Corps Task Force was appointed to the Task force for the War on Poverty, and the Job Corps was slated to be the initial operational program. \n\nJob Corps was therefore initiated as the central program of the Johnson Administration's War on Poverty, part of his domestic agenda known as the Great Society. Sargent Shriver, the first Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity, modeled the program on the Depression-era Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC). Established in the 1930s as an emergency relief program, the CCC provided room, board, and employment to thousands of unemployed young people. Though the CCC was discontinued after World War II, Job Corps built on many of its methods and strategies.\n\nThe first National Director of the Job Corps program was Dr. S. Stephen Uslan, who was appointed by President Lyndon Johnson and reported directly to Sargent Shriver. The current national director of the Office of Job Corps is Lenita Jacobs-Simmons The Job Corps program is currently authorized under Title I-C of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998.\n\nSince its inception in 1964 under the Economic Opportunity Act, Job Corps has served more than 1.9 million young people. Job Corps serves approximately 60,000 youths annually at Job Corps Centers throughout the country.\n\nA person is eligible for Job Corps if he or she meets the following criteria:\n\n\nApplicants to the Job Corps program are identified and screened for eligibility by organizations contracted by the U.S. Department of Labor. Each student in the Job Corps goes through four stages of the program:\n\nOutreach and Admissions (OA): This is the stage at which students visit admissions counselors and gather information, as well as prepare for and leave for their Job Corps Centers. Transportation is provided to and from the centers by Job Corps.\n\nCareer Preparation Period (CPP): This stage focuses on the assimilation of the student into the center, academic testing, health screening, and instruction on resume building and job search skills. Students are instructed on computer literacy, employability, and center life. This phase lasts for the first 30 days on center.\n\nCareer Development Period (CDP): This period is where the student receives all vocational training, drivers' education, academic instruction, and preparation for life outside of Job Corps, i.e. a repeat of CPP with an actual job search.\n\nCareer Transition Readiness (CTR): The period immediately after the student graduates. Career Transition Specialists outside the center assist in the graduate's job search and arrangement of living accommodations, transportation, and family support resources.\n\nThe following Career Technical Training programs are offered by Job Corps. However, Job Corps continually adjusts program offerings in response to labor market demand, so the below list may not be fully complete or current.\n\nThere are a total of 131 Job Corps centers, including at least one in every state, one in Washington, D.C. and three in Puerto Rico.\n\nThere are six Regional Offices of Job Corps:\n\n\nIn Program Year 2012, approximately 75 percent of Job Corps’ graduates were placed. Slightly more than 60 percent joined the workforce or enlisted in the military, while 13.5 percent of Job Corps’ graduates enrolled in education programs. CBS This Morning reported in October 2014 that some Job Corps centers have been accused of falsifying job placements and student training, as well as ignoring violence and drug abuse.\n\nIn 1993, the DOJ commissioned an evaluation of the program based on randomized assignment of eligible applicants to the program. Results showed impacts on employment, wages, and crime rates 4 years after enrollment, but modest impacts afterwards. Youths assigned to the control group could enroll in other programs, therefore the results are to be interpreted as the impact on enrolling in Job Corps relative to potential enrollment in other programs. \n\n\n<nowiki>~~~~</nowiki>\n"}
{"id": "30107261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30107261", "title": "Journal of General Education", "text": "Journal of General Education\n\nJournal of General Education is an academic journal devoted to issues regarding general education in the United States. It is published quarterly by the Penn State University Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "9055870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9055870", "title": "Juan Felipe Herrera", "text": "Juan Felipe Herrera\n\nJuan Felipe Herrera (born December 27, 1948) is a poet, performer, writer, cartoonist, teacher, and activist. Herrera was the 51st United States Poet Laureate from 2015 to 2017.\n\nHerrera's experiences as the child of migrant farmers have strongly shaped his work, such as the children's book \"Calling the Doves\", which won the Ezra Jack Keats Book Award in 1997. Community and art have always been part of what has driven Herrera, beginning in the mid-1970s, when he was director of the \"Centro Cultural de la Raza\", an occupied water tank in Balboa Park that had been converted into an arts space for the community.\n\nHerrera’s publications include fourteen collections of poetry, prose, short stories, young adult novels and picture books for children, with twenty-one books in total in the last decade. His 2007 volume \"187 Reasons Mexicanos Can't Cross the Border: Undocuments 1971-2007\" contains texts in both Spanish and English that examine the cultural hybridity that \"revolve around questions of identity\" on the U.S.-Mexico border. Herrera was awarded the 2008 National Book Critics Circle Award in Poetry for \"Half the World in Light\". In 2012, he was appointed California Poet Laureate by Gov. Jerry Brown.\n\nIn 2011, Herrera was elected a Chancellor of the Academy of American Poets. In 2015, Herrera was appointed as the nation's first Chicana or Chicano poet laureate.\n\nOn June 11, 2016, Herrera was awarded an honorary Doctorate from Oregon State University.\n\nSon of farm workers María de la Luz Quintana and Felipe Emilio Herrera, Juan Felipe Herrera lived from crop to crop and from tractor to trailer to tents on the roads of the San Joaquín Valley and the Salinas Valley. Herrera graduated from San Diego High School in 1967 and received the Educational Opportunity Program scholarship to attend the University of California, Los Angeles where he received his B.A. in Social Anthropology. Later, he received his Masters in Social Anthropology from Stanford University, and his Masters in Fine Arts in Creative Writing from the University of Iowa. In 1990, he was a distinguished teaching fellow at the University of Iowa Writers’ Workshop. After serving as chair of the Chicano and Latin American Studies Department at California State University, Fresno, in 2005, Herrera joined the Creative Writing Department at University of California, Riverside, as the Tomás Rivera Endowed Chair. He also became director of the Art and Barbara Culver Center for the Arts, a new multimedia space in downtown Riverside. \n\nHerrera resides in Redlands, California with his partner Margarita Robles, a performance artist and poet. He has five children.\n\nHerrera's experience as a campesino has strongly influenced his works. Traveling from the San Joaquín Valley to San Diego's Logan Heights, and San Francisco's Mission District has left him three distinct Californias from which he draws inspiration. Growing up in the '60s and attending college in the '70s during the Chicano Movement and more experimental writing such as the Beat Poets, writers like Luis Valdez and Allen Ginsberg inspired Herrera. The great era of artistic experimentation has also inspired his writing style in which he challenges the borders between styles, forms, schools, and genres.\n\nHerrera, a writer constantly crossing borders, often writes about social issues. Ilan Stavans, a Mexican American essayist, has said, “the past three decades in Chicano literature and his name is Juan Felipe Herrera. Aesthetically, he leaps over so many canons that he winds up on the outer limits of urban song.”. \"New York Times\" critic Stephen Burt praised Herrera as one of the first poets to successfully create “a new hybrid art, part oral, part written, part English, part something else: an art grounded in ethnic identity, fueled by collective pride, yet irreducibly individual too.”\n\nJuan Felipe has received grants to teach poetry, art and performance in several different settings, including community art galleries such as the \"Galería de la Raza\" in San Francisco, California, in 1983-85, develop community art and literature broadsides (1977–1978) in San Diego, California, teach poetry in prisons (Soledad Correctional Facility, 1987–88). His current work focuses on working with community colleges and schools in the Riverside country and in Coachella Valley.\n\nAfter being named California’s Poet Laureate by Governor Jerry Brown in 2012, Herrera created the i-Promise Joanna/Yo te Prometo Joanna Project, an anti-bullying poetry project. Joanna was an elementary school girl who was bullied and killed in an afterschool fight. The first half asks students to send in poems about the effects of bullying. The second half of the project is to take action in preventing bullying. He hopes to collect the poems and publish it as a book in the future.\n\n\n\nHerrera produced “The Twin Tower Songs,” a San Joaquin Valley performance memorial on the September 11, 2001 attacks and writes (poetry sequences) for the PBS television series \"American Family\". His recent musical, \"The Upside Down Boy\", was well received in New York City, produced by \"Making Books Sing\", libretto by Barbara Zinn Krieger. Lyrics by Juan Felipe Herrera and Music by Cristian Amigo. Mr. Herrera is a board member of the Before Columbus American Book Awards Foundation and the California Council for the Humanities.\n\nIn October, 2016, LightBox Theatre Company, a non-profit theatre for young audiences in Turlock, Calif., presented a world premiere production of \"The Super Cilantro Girl\", based on three Herrera's children's books. The play, written by California State University, Stanislaus professor Arnold Anthony Schmidt and directed by Stefani Tsai, is based on \"The Upside Down Boy,\" \"Calling the Doves\" and \"Super Cilantro Girl.\"\n\nJuan Felipe Herrera founded a number of performance ensembles during the last three decades: \n\n"}
{"id": "40829037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40829037", "title": "Konrad Zuse Scholarship Programme 2009", "text": "Konrad Zuse Scholarship Programme 2009\n\nKonrad Zuse Program is one-year fellowship for ICT entrepreneurs, supported from the Federal Foreign Office of Germany and the German Investment and Development Corporation (DEG). Konrad Zuse Program gives the opportunity to receive training in German companies operating in the area of Information & Communication Technology (ICT) in order to narrow the digital divide in a globalize world. \nKonrad-Zuse-Program included an academic component as well as internships in German companies active in the same sector as the prospective start-up.\n\nThis award was given to nine people from around the world:\n"}
{"id": "18151195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18151195", "title": "List of Mexican states by literacy rate", "text": "List of Mexican states by literacy rate\n\nThe following is the list of the literacy rate by states of Mexico as of 2005 and 2000.\n"}
{"id": "42082067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42082067", "title": "List of archives in Estonia", "text": "List of archives in Estonia\n\nThis is list of archives in Estonia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44294889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44294889", "title": "Major Field Test for Master of Business Administration", "text": "Major Field Test for Master of Business Administration\n\nThe Major Field Test for Master of Business Administration (MFT-MBA) is a national standardized exam administered in the United States at the end of MBA programs. It is a comprehensive exit exam. The MFT-MBA aims to assess skills, knowledge, and reasoning ability within the domain of standard MBA curriculum. It is administered by Educational Testing Service (ETS) and has been used in the MBA programs of over 300 U.S. universities.\n\nMost MBA programs require an exit exam to gauge students' comprehensive competency in the field of business management. The MFT-MBA began being offered in 2002. It was developed nationally by leading educators to assess the skills of graduating MBA students. It is also used as a tool to compare business programs across the United States. ETS issues an updated test every 3–4 years in attempt to ensure high content validity. The most recent test forms are 4BMF (February 2005 - June 2009), 4FMF (September 2009 - June 2013), and 4JMF (September 2013 – present).\n\nThe MFT-MBA is based on MBA core curriculum. Unlike tests that are not aligned to anything but their own curriculum, the MFT-MBA emphasizes content validity. In order to display normativity and ensure a consensus of what best reflects core curriculum, the content is constructed using results of a national curriculum survey. According to ETS, content experts from a diverse representation of higher education institutions (including Major Field Test users and nonusers) participate in this survey. Basing the exam on core curriculum makes it a level playing field exam, giving it meaningful results and enabling it to measure reasoning ability.\n\nThe test contains 124 multiple-choice questions. There are approximately 32 management questions, 31 marketing questions, 33 finance questions, and 28 managerial accounting questions. Half of the questions require the strategic integration of two or more subject areas. In addition to factual knowledge, the test evaluates the student's abilities to interpret materials, understand relationships, and analyze and solve problems. \n\nThe Major Field Test for MBA can only be taken once. The amount of time allotted for taking the test is three hours. It is taken on a computer. All exams are given at proctored facilities. Test takers are provided with scratch paper and pencils, but calculators are not permitted. All test questions present four answer options to choose from, only one of which is correct. \n\nA national scoring guide is issued annually. Scores range from 220-300. According to ETS, the overall scaled score on the MFT-MBA measures critical thinking and reasoning within the domain of standard MBA curriculum. The chart on the right provides a scoring summary at approximately every 10th percentile.\n\nForm 4BMF was last used in 2009 making the 2009 scoring guide 4BMF's last scoring guide. Form 4FMF was last used in 2013 making the 2013 scoring guide 4FMF's last scoring guide. The 2015 scoring guide is the most up to date guide for 4JMF (the current test form).\n\nSeveral universities such as Rutgers, LSU, and the University of Nebraska, Omaha give awards to recognize their students whom received top scores on the MFT-MBA. The honors society T10 uses the MFT-MBA to recognize the top 10% of MBAs in the United States.\n\nThe MFT-MBA and similar tests are used by business school accreditation bodies such as the International Assembly for Collegiate Business Education (IACBE), the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), and the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP) to satisfy their assessment and accountability requirements.\n\n"}
{"id": "50220548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50220548", "title": "Manirampur Government Girls' High School", "text": "Manirampur Government Girls' High School\n\nManirampur Government Girls' High School (MGGHS) is a state secondary school for girls, located in Manirampur Upazila under Jessore District, Bangladesh. It is situated near Mohanpur Bot tola, just west of the Jessore-Satkhira Highway.\n\nThe school was established as \"Guru Training School\" at the village Mohanpur in Manirampur Upazila during the reign of British Government in the Indian Subcontinent. That means Junior Training (J.T) was provided to the class 8 passed students to be teachers. The then C.O (Circle Officer) Mr. Mosharraf Hossain was the chairman of that training school. \nOn 1 April 1965, the training school was turned into Junior High School by the sincere effort of local renowned persons. They are Moslem Uddin Gazi, Md. Jalal Uddin, Babu Dulal Chandra Das, Babu Girindra Nath Ghosh, Doctor Mohiuddin (father Adv. Shaheed Md. Iqbal, Mayor, Manirampur Municipality), The circle officer of Manirampur thana, Mr Raichuddin, School Inspector Syed Nabiruzzaman and other locals. The school started with 15-20 girl students in two tin-shed rooms. During that period, Mrs. Nurzahan Begum took over the responsibilities as a headmaster. She passed I.A. and was the wife of S.I. Syed Nabiruzzaman.\n\nFrom 1965 to 1970, the school continued its education programme as a Junior School. On September 21, 1971, the school was approved to start class nine. On August 12, 1972, the school got permitted as a bilateral high school. Since then, the education programme of class 1-5 had been postponed. On February 2, 1987, the bilateral girls' high school was nationalized as per the announcement of Hussain Muhammad Ershad, President of Bangladesh. Then the school was named as Manirampur Government Girls' High School, Manirampur, Jessore. The then Deputy Commissioner of Jessore District, Moktader Chowdhury has also contribution for nationalizing the school. He managed to register 1.04 shatak of land for the school. \n\nIt is situated on about 3 acres of land at Mohanpur (Bot tola) in Manirampur Upazila which is bounded by Jessore-Satkhira Highway in the east, Aghor Nath road in the north and Pulin Bihari road in the south. The school has two two-storeyed buildings. There are an auditorium, a library and a computer lab in the buildings. There is a pond in the school compound.\n\nThe school follows the SSC curriculum in Bengali medium under the Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Jessore. The EIIN is 116118. The school has Science and Social Science division. According to the curriculum of 2010, all subject teachers have been provided C.P.D - 1 & 2 with cluster training by TQI-SEP with the support of the government and a three days training on creative question papers under the scheme of SESDP in order to develop the standard of education. \nWith a view to applying and implementing the modern education system, the school operates the following methods :\n\n10:00 am in the morning to 4:00 pm in the afternoon. There is a tiffin break of 30 minutes during this period.\n\nTo make the students efficient in information technology, there is a computer lab in the school with some computers, laptops and multimedia projectors. Internet connection has also been taken through Broad Band line.\n\nThe administrative system of the school is directed by the directorates of secondary and higher secondary education under the ministry of education. The deputy director of Khulna area looks after different aspects of the school. For managing the local administrative system, there is a strong board of directors consists of 5 members under the presidency of upazila executive officer (UNO).\n"}
{"id": "44183654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44183654", "title": "Maria Varela", "text": "Maria Varela\n\nMaria Varela (born January 1, 1940) was raised in several places across the country\n\nVarela was formed in her work as an organizer, educator, writer, and photographer by her experience as a SNCC staff member from 1963 to 1967, working first in Selma and then across the Black Belt South. Raised Catholic by her Mexican father and Irish mother, Varela first got involved in the Catholic social justice movement by joining the Young Christian Students (YCS) in high school and then again in college. After graduation, Varela was recruited in 1961 to serve as a college campus organizer for the YCS National Office. She traveled across the country, urging Catholic students to support the Civil Rights Movement and especially the sit-ins.\n\nThrough this work, Varela met Casey Hayden, who recruited her in early 1963 to work for SNCC in the Atlanta Office. This changed when Bernard Lafayette and Frank Smith, who had recently had worked in Selma, asked that Varela be assigned to work, instead, in Selma to support one of Selma's civil rights leaders, Father Maurice Ouellet, the pastor of the Black Catholic Parish. Ouellet was a strong supporter of the Movement and had opened his buildings to classes and meetings. He also made repeated requests for a literacy project to assist with voter registration. Worth Long, SNCC Alabama coordinator had also requested literacy programming and welcomed assistance from Varela.\n\nDissatisfied with the white middle class portrayals in literacy materials, Varela began creating materials that reflected Black people's lifestyles. After the notorious Dallas County Sheriff Jim Clark shut the Selma program down by arresting Varela's project staff, she moved to Mississippi (where she herself was arrested several times) and spent the next 3 years responding to SNCC organizers' requests for adult education and training materials.\n\nVarela was determined that these materials would show Black people taking leadership to change their segregated communities. As there were no existing materials showing Black people in action, she enlisted SNCC photographer Bob Fletcher to take pictures for her various projects. Fletcher eventually challenged her to learn photography and recommended that she study with Matt Herron in New Orleans.\nOver the next 3 years, Maria Varela collaborated on a series of books and filmstrips made with photographs and utilizing taped conversations with local leaders including: Something of Our Own (how to set up an okra co-op), Holmes County, Mississippi (political organizing), To Praise Our Bridges (Mrs. Fannie Lou Hamer's autobiography), and three filmstrips including one on ASCS Elections and one on Cesar Chavez and the United Farm Workers. She also published two poetry books: I Play Flute by Jane Stembridge and Hoe Trails by Charlie Cobb.\nOne of the responsibilities of SNCC photographers was photographing protests to hopefully constrain and/or document any resultant police violence. In 1966, Maria Varela was assigned to shoot the Meredith March Against Fear in Mississippi where Black Power became the march's slogan. The media spun the story of Black Power as coming from militant Black northerners rather than indigenous rural southerners. One of her images showed a young local black man who had drawn a black panther on his T-shirt. \"Through the lens, I saw differently\", she recalled, \"mirrored in the eyes of that youth was a strength and pride that had been freed from within\".\n\nIn 1968, responding to a request from Reies Lopez Tijerina, leader of the Indio-Hispano land rights movement, Varela moved to northern New Mexico to work with the Alianza Federal land grant organization. Members of this organization were families in rural communities who had lived there for generations under community land grants from Spain and then Mexico, before this region became part of the USA. Over time, because US property law did not recognize common lands, families had lost their ancestral lands and subdivided the remainder among succeeding generations. Poverty was rooted in these lost lands and the smaller farms which were no longer economically viable. Because Varela had worked with Black Farmers in Mississippi and Alabama, she learned there about the economic and political importance of retaining a land base. Black farmers were more independent than those who worked for plantations or the white community. They organized politically and economically to change their communities.\n\nThe Alianza Federal seemed to speak to these issues. For 150 years, corporate ranchers, environmentalists, and public agencies had taken over the upland areas traditionally used for summer grazing. This left the traditional livestock growers only small plots of land to graze their animals. Their ability to expand their livestock holdings because of lack of land was one of the roots of poverty and powerlessness. Out-migration, especially of young people, was very high. Inspired by the civil rights activism in southern states, New Mexico land grant activists turned to civil disobedience in the late 1960s to protest the theft of ancestral lands. Maria was recruited to New Mexico to act as a bridge between the land grant movement and the civil rights movement. Eventually realizing that the leadership of the Alianza were uninterested in organizing at the local level to build new leadership and improve poverty and powerlessness, she left the Alianza Federal to work in a different way to support the movement.\n\nIn 1983, after helping start and run a community based clinic for 10 years, Maria co-founded and helped coordinate Ganados Del Valle/Tierra Wools, a cooperative of sheepherders, weavers, and craftspeople that strove for culturally sustainable economic development and environmental justice. Based in Los Ojos, New Mexico, Ganados has revitalized the economy of the Chama valley, based on the breeding of Churro sheep, a near extinct breed well suited to the area. Families organized to restore traditional livestock breeds, seeds and methods of agriculture that created the cutting edge of the 'local and natural foods' movement which now has a firm hold in U.S. popular culture. The theory was that making even the small holdings more economically viable and restoring ancestral methods of agriculture and art, that perhaps young people would see the value of staying or coming back to preserve their family land holdings. Ganados was considered a model for culturally appropriate economic development for numerous native nations as well as isolated rural communities in the southwest.\n\nVarela also continued her photography documenting the 1968 Poor Peoples Campaign, the first Chicano Youth Conference, the 1960s and 1970s Chicano movement, and the lifestyles of Hispano villages.\n\nIn 1990 she was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship for her organizing work. Varela has been the subject of a Smithsonian article on conflicts between environmentalists and land based people, was listed as 'Hero for Hard Times' by Mother Jones magazine and in 2005 was among the 1000 Women for Peace nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. In addition to her primary work of supporting communities in the Southwest, Varela has been a visiting Professor at the University of New Mexico and The Colorado College and is a published author. In addition to supporting various environmental justice and immigrant rights movements, she travels the country speaking at college campuses and exhibiting her photographs.\n\nVarela is the first Latina woman to document the 1960s civil rights struggle in the black belt south. For the last five decades, her work has been included in books and photo exhibits featured in galleries and museums, including the New York Public Library (1968), the Smithsonian (1980), the Howard Greenberg Gallery (1994), Eastman House (1998), The Colorado College (2000), Smith College (2005), a traveling exhibit, This Light of Ours (2010) and \"Time to Get Ready\" which included images from the civil rights movement and her work in northern New Mexico.\n\nSegment of Varela chapter http://www.press.uillinois.edu/wordpress/?p=6444\n\nShe graduated from University of Massachusetts.\nShe was a visiting professor at Colorado College.\nShe was adjunct professor at University of New Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "23883900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23883900", "title": "Medical ghostwriter", "text": "Medical ghostwriter\n\nMedical ghostwriters are employed by pharmaceutical companies and medical-device manufacturers to produce apparently independent manuscripts for peer-reviewed journals, conference presentations and other communications. Physicians and other scientists are paid to attach their names to the manuscripts as though they had authored them. The named authors may have had little or no involvement in the research or writing process.\n\nThe American Medical Writers Association speaks to the topic as follows:\n\nThe rules for authorship and contribution of the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE, informally known as \"the Vancouver Group\" from the locale of the group's first meeting, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada) are a single, universally-respected set of guidelines for describing authorship of and contribution to professional medical publications. The document \"International Committee of Medical Journal Editors: Defining the Role of Authors and Contributors\" is considered the definitive statement of ethical requirements for how authorship in medical journal articles (the prime forum for medical professional publication) and the degree to which a given writer is deemed to have contributed to the content of a medical journal article are determined. Compliance with the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors' Uniform Requirements for Manuscripts Submitted to Biomedical Journals is voluntary. A list of medical journals which have stated that they follow the Uniform Requirements for Manuscripts Submitted to Biomedical Journals is maintained by the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors.\n\nHow closely individual medical journals and authors of medical journal articles comply with ICMJE guidelines is a largely self-policed matter. The ICMJE document \"Uniform Requirements for Manuscripts Submitted to Biomedical Journals: Publishing and Editorial Issues Related to Publication in Biomedical Journals: Corrections, Retractions and \"Expressions of Concern\" is the section of the ICMJE Uniform Requirements laying out guidelines for how potential or actual scientific error and scientific fraud ought to be dealt with. It refers readers to the relevant guidelines from the Committee for Publication Ethics (COPE) - specifically COPE's flowcharts outlining a systematic approach toward scientific error and possible fraud.\n\nMedical ghostwriting has been criticized by a variety of professional organizations representing the drug industry, publishers, and medical societies, and it may violate American laws prohibiting off-label promotion by drug manufacturers as well as anti-kickback provisions within the statutes governing Medicare. Recently, it has attracted scrutiny from the lay press lawmakers the Institute of Medicine, and the National Institutes of Health. as well. It is permitted at some institutions, including the University of Washington School of Medicine, while it is prohibited and considered a particularly pernicious form of plagiarism at others, such as Tufts University School of Medicine and the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine.\n\nScandals involving prominent physicians researchers have been reported at over a dozen universities in the United States, however, there have been no reports of any professors being disciplined. Professor Trudo Lemmens of the University of Toronto School of Law argues that ghostwritten papers help protect companies when they are sued in court.\n\nPerhaps the most pernicious practice in ghostwriting involves thanking writers for providing “editorial assistance” in the acknowledgments section of the paper instead of the authorship byline, which essentially changes the rule of authorship attribution so that ghostwriting is acceptable. Several groups in medicine including the European Medical Writers Association (EMWA) sanction this practice. While the average reader likely interprets “editorial assistance” as help with grammar or improvements to the overall readability of the article, in reality, such “assistants” make major contributions to papers, and would commonsensically be considered co-authors. Tellingly, many medical writers are “editorial assistants” on some scientific papers, but co-authors on others. It would seem obvious that someone employed as a “medical writer” would be an author, but current dialogue on ghostwriting ignores such common-sense interpretations. Listing ghost authors as editorial assistants allows pharmaceutical companies to publish articles with conflicts-of interest that are not transparently reported. Editorial assistants are not mentioned in the abstract, are not indexed in publication databases, are not mentioned in subsequent citations, and are never mentioned in news media accounts of the article. In other words, the fact that a pharmaceutical company directly co-authored the paper is concealed from view. That this is seen as acceptable in an era of increased disclosure of conflicts-of-interest is puzzling.\n\nWhile several groups in medicine including the European Medical Writers Association (EMWA) sanction the practice of thanking medical writers for providing “editorial assistance” in the acknowledgments section of the paper instead of listing them on the authorship byline, the problem with simply thanking ghostwriters in the acknowledgements section is clearly illustrated by Study 329, probably the most notorious ghostwritten paper in the medical literature. The study examined the use of Paxil in adolescents and concluded, “Paroxetine is generally well tolerated and effective for major depression in adolescents.” Several years after the paper was published, court proceedings revealed internal company documents admitting that the study found that Paxil was not any better than placebo on the pre-registered outcome measures, and that the company was concerned about how to manage the negative findings. According to the revised ICMJE Guidelines, Professional medical writers who write papers are not exempt from being listed as authors of the paper \n\nIt is difficult to determine how frequently ghostwriting occurs due to its covert nature. A 2009 \"New York Times\" article estimated that 11% of \"New England Journal of Medicine\" articles, 8% of \"JAMA\", \"Lancet\" and \"PLoS Medicine\" articles, 5% of \"Annals of Internal Medicine\" articles and 2% of \"Nature Medicine\" were ghost written. Between 1998 and 2005 Wyeth had 26 papers promoting hormone replacement therapy (HRT) published in scientific journals.\n\nPreviously secret internal Wyeth documents providing evidence of this are viewable on the Drug Industry Document Archive. It also appears to have occurred in 75% of industry funded trials between 1994 - 1995 approved by the Scientific Ethical Committees for Copenhagen and Frederiksberg.\nOf the articles published from 1998 to 2000 regarding sertraline, between 18% and 40% were ghost written by Pfizer. A questionnaire using comparable methods in 2005 and 2008 with a 14-28% response rate found a decrease in number of people who reported ghostwriting among professional medical writers.\n\nMost pharmaceutical companies have in-house publication managers who may either manage the writing of publications on the company's drugs by a team of in-house medical writers or contract them out to medical communication companies or freelance medical writers. Reprints of the articles can be distributed to doctors in their offices or at medical meetings by drug company representatives \"in lieu\" of product brochures. This practice might be illegal if it effectively constitutes advertising or advocating use of the drug for non-approved indications or dosages. Payments to medical ghostwriters may be augmented with consulting contracts, paid trips to teach continuing medical education courses, or grants. The academics or doctors are known as \"KOLs\" (\"Key Opinion Leaders\") or \"TLs\" (\"Thought Leaders\").\n\nOn June 24, 2010, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Ranking Member of the United States Senate Committee on Finance issued a report on medical ghost writing.\nThe report said, \"The Committee was provided with documents from recent lawsuits involving Wyeth’s hormone therapy products. The documents showed that Wyeth hired a medical communications and education company, DesignWrite Inc. (DesignWrite), to draft review articles regarding the breast cancer risk of hormone therapy products and then invited academic researchers to sign on as the primary authors.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "28091439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28091439", "title": "National Green Corps", "text": "National Green Corps\n\nNational Green Corps is a programme of the Ministry of Environment and Forests of Government of India covering around 1,20,000 schools in India with NGC School Eco Clubs. Environmental activity in schools in India is promoted through the National Green Corps. Each NGC School Eco Club has 30 to 50 NGC Students or NGC Cadets who form the National Green Corps. These NGC Students participate in activities related to Biodiversity Conservation, Water Conservation, Energy Conservation, Waste Management and Land Use Planning and Resource Management. Locale specific issues are focused by the NGC Eco Clubs. When young girls and boys from NGC take up the environmental awareness activities and outreach activities, they attract huge public attention which eventually becomes public support for an environmental cause or environmental intervention. Water Harvesting, Plantation, Composting of biodegradable waste are most popular activities in the NGC School Eco Clubs. These NGC School Eco Clubs promote environmental discipline and environmental responsibility through the selected schools in India using environmental awareness as the medium. Each of the 250 districts in India has about 250 NGC Eco Clubs. These NGC Eco Clubs are provided with an annual grant of Rs2500. Each of the Indian State has a State Nodal Officer who implements this programme.\n\nThe NGC Children are making a huge impact in the country. Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Orissa, Kerala, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu are some of the states where this programme is making huge impact on the society. Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have a separate Directorates for conducting this programme, while all other states conduct this programme through one of those organisations which is interested in environmental awareness and conservation aspects. Telangana has much more involvement than any other state. They even own a website. In Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, Sikkim, Delhi and Himachal Pradesh the eco-club schools participate in the Green Schools Programme conducted by the Environment Education Unit of the Centre for Science and Environment. The eco-club schools that win awards at the state level go on to compete for the National Awards organised by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) in Delhi.\n\nSince school children are involved, most of the activities of National Green Corps children are linked to the culture and cultural aspects of conservation of natural resources and environment. There are Master Trainers trained by the State Nodal Agencies with the help of the State Resource Agencies who train the Teachers-In-Charge of the NGC Eco Clubs.Each district has the District Implementation and Monitoring Committee which is supported by the District Coordinator, while at the state level the State Nodal Officer is guided by the state level Committee.\n\nThis is the largest such programme anywhere in the world. When these trained NGC Students grow up and take the environmental challenges of this second the most populous country, it is expected that there will be huge difference made to the way the resources are consumed and conserved. Andhra Pradesh is trying to groom the NGC Cadets as an environmentally disciplined force. It has introduced Uniform and Band along with a structured programme of formation of five teams of cadets exclusively in all NGC School Eco Clubs. These NGC Cadets are the Green Brigade of the school, protecting the natural resources from misuse and promoting the conservation of the natural resources. These NGC Cadets are getting the pride place during the National Days when they participate in full NGC Uniform during the ceremonial parades along with other uniformed forces of the country.\n\nThe first ever National Conference of National Green Corps Eco Clubs is at Hyderabad from 26 to 29 August 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25688128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25688128", "title": "National Technological University – Buenos Aires Regional Faculty", "text": "National Technological University – Buenos Aires Regional Faculty\n\nThe National Technological University, Buenos Aires (Spanish: \"Universidad Tecnológica Nacional - Facultad Regional Buenos Aires\"), also called UTN-FRBA or UTN.BA, is the Buenos Aires-based regional faculty of the National Technological University.\n\nThe college includes a main building and a postgraduate school in Almagro and a campus in Villa Lugano, both neighborhoods of Buenos Aires. \n\nThis college offers the following engineering degrees:\n\n\n\nDirector: Dr. Ricardo Armentano | Coordinator: Dr. Leandro Cymberknop\n\nThe GIBIO is a multidisciplinary research group involving physicists, bioengineers, doctors and engineers of various disciplines. Also it consists of students, undergraduate and graduate scholars, and researchers mostly from the UTN.BA. The group functions in the field of bioengineering, especially within the branch of \"Cardiovascular Engineering\". It is located in the Main Building (Medrano 951, CABA) of the Buenos Aires Regional Faculty of National Technological University and depends on the Secretariat of Science, Technology and Productive Innovation (Spanish: \"Secretaría de Ciencia, Tecnología e Innovación Productiva\", SeCTIP). The main objective of GIBIO is the study, research, development and evaluation of methods and equipment for the diagnosis and prevention, mostly of cardiovascular diseases, from its primitive genesis. Also GIBIO collaborates with several reputed international research entities to perform an intensive interdisciplinary research in the field of bioengineering.\n\nAmong its current lines of research and development, the key fields are bioinstrumentation, biomedical prototypes development, biomechanical studies of synthetic and biological prosthetics, computational numerical simulation, signal processing, medical image and data processing, big data analytics and internet of things applied to monitoring of cardiometabolic diseases.\n\nThis UTN.BA is one of the 24 regional faculties of the National Technological University of Argentina.\n"}
{"id": "2958612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2958612", "title": "Open classroom", "text": "Open classroom\n\nAn open classroom is a student-centered learning space design format which first became popular in North America in the late 1960s and 1970s, with a re-emergence in the early 21st century.\n\nThe idea of the open classroom was that a large group of students of varying skill levels would be in a single, large classroom with several teachers overseeing them. It is ultimately derived from the one-room schoolhouse, but sometimes expanded to include more than two hundred students in a single multi-age and multi-grade classroom. Rather than having one teacher lecture to the entire group at once, students are typically divided into different groups for each subject according to their skill level for that subject. The students then work in small groups to achieve their assigned goal. Teachers serve as both facilitators and instructors. \n\nCertain education professionals, including Professor Gerald Unks at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, strongly support this system particularly with young children. If poorly planned or laid out, open classrooms can sometimes lead to problems with noise and poor ventilation. Classrooms that are physically open are increasingly rare, as many schools that were built \"without walls\" have long since put up permanent partitions of varying heights. However, in many places, the open philosophy as an instructional technique continues. Larry Cuban states \"To call it a fad would miss the deeper meaning of “open classrooms” as another skirmish in the ideological wars that have split educational progressives from conservatives since the first tax-supported schools opened their doors in the early 1800s.\"\nPiedmont Open/IB Middle School in Charlotte, North Carolina, for example, was started as one of the original two magnet middle schools in Charlotte in the 1970s. While the other magnet (a \"traditional\" school) has closed, Piedmont is still functioning as a modified open school thirty years later, all the time housed in a traditional physical plant.\n\nThe open-space school concept was introduced into the United States in 1965 as an experimental elementary school architecture where the physical walls separating classrooms were removed to promote movement across class areas by teachers. However, in practice this is not typical since teachers, following social conventions, tend to teach in a traditional manner as if the walls were still present. Further, modern open-space schools tend to use modular furniture to separate class rooms in a manner similar to \"Cubicle farms\" used in many corporate environment.\n\nAdvocates of open plan schools argue that students 'should be allowed to learn in ways \nsuited to their individual differences' and that the most effective teaching and learning \nstrategies allow teachers to work collaboratively with each other and team teach. The \ntraditional classroom boxes with desks lined up in rows impede teachers' efforts to work in \nteams and have students 'in the flexible and varied groupings necessary' (Mark, J 2001:5). \n\nBunting agrees, saying that 'traditional classrooms must change' and proposes a model of a generic space for students to be co-located with teachers, which are decorated by the students to give them ownership, and teachers and students only move when necessary to access specialised space (Bunting, A 2004:11–12).\n\nKlein found in a 1975 study that third graders with low levels of anxiety were more creative in open schools than in traditional school. Children with high levels of anxiety showed no differences between open-space and traditional school models. Students in open-spaced schools scored higher on preference for novelty and change.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34652058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34652058", "title": "Open management education", "text": "Open management education\n\nOpen management education refers to business and management programs and courses making use of open educational resources and open content. The main idea is to develop competences by re-use, combination and adaption of freely accessible, existing resources.\n\nPrograms and trainings in business and management are often not affordable, especially for SMEs or for people in less developed countries. Therefore, open management education seems like a promising alternative for many stakeholders.\n\nIt is still an ongoing discussion which business models could be applied, such as sharing or add-on models. However, the domain is still developing and no business model has become mainstream. A good discussion can be found by Downes (2007).\n\nAnother challenge is to find simple tools to adapt (the sometimes complex) resources.\n\nThere are many repositories, databases and web access points, some of them listed here:\n"}
{"id": "30829500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30829500", "title": "PCEA Silanga High School", "text": "PCEA Silanga High School\n\nPCEA Silanga High School is a Christian-foundation based mixed secondary school in Kibera, Nairobi, Kenya. Established in January 2007 by the Presbyterian Church of East Africa, Kibera Parish, under the leadership of the Rev. Samuel Machugu Kamau and Evangelist Isaac Irungu Mwangi, it caters for the educational needs of the Kibera community.\n\nIt offers a four-year course of secondary education, Form One to Form Four, leading to a Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education.\n\nIt is registered by the Ministry of Education as a formal school, as well as the Kenya National Examinations Council as an Examination Centre.\n\nThe school has about 150 students and eight full-time teachers, and offers the 8-4-4 system of education (British Curriculum).\n\nThe school partners with the Barrhead Bourock Parish Churches, which is supporting ten students on full scholarships.\n\nThe principal is Daniel Misiko Lukorito.\n\nThe school came into being after an initial meeting in 2006 by members of the Barrhead Bourock Parish Churches, who saw the need and encouraged the local leaders to establish such an institution. This came into being in January 2007 when the then Rev. Samuel Kamau Machugu, Evangelist Isaac Irungu Mwangi, Patrick Gikonyo and Daniel Misiko Lukorito came together and shared the vision with the other leaders, who accepted to start the school.\n\nThe school is one of the many projects helping the community, run by the PCEA Kibera Parish. PCEA was formally called the Church of Scotland. The congregations of Bourock Parish and Barhead churches have been in the forefront in supporting the growth of the school through funding projects and structures in the school, as well as sponsoring students.\n\nThe school has a Board of Governors, who oversee its running. It meets once a month to review the progress of the school. The board comprises the members of the local community, local government representatives, the principal, who is the secretary, members of the church and the local elected peoples' representatives. There are ten board members, who are elected into office every three years.\n\nIt also has a Parents/Teachers association, commonly known as the PTA. This team works in coordination with the BOG to see that the right content is covered. The PTA is made of six parents and four teachers who include the principal and the deputy principal.\n"}
{"id": "379013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=379013", "title": "Pico (programming language)", "text": "Pico (programming language)\n\nPico is a programming language developed at the Software Languages Lab at Vrije Universiteit Brussel. The language was created to introduce the essentials of programming to non-computer science students.\n\nPico can be seen as an effort to generate a palatable and enjoyable language for people who do not want to study hard for the elegance and power of a language. They have done it by adapting Scheme's semantics.\n\nWhile designing Pico, the Software Languages Lab was inspired by the Abelson and Sussman's book \"Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs\". Furthermore, they were influenced by the teaching of programming at high school or academic level.\n\nPico should be interpreted as 'small', the idea was to create a small language for educational purposes.\n\nComments are surrounded by backquotes (\"`\").\n\nVariables are dynamically typed; Pico uses static scope.\n\nFunctions are first-class objects in Pico. They can be assigned to variables. For example a function with two parameters param1 and param2 can be defined as:\n\nFunctions can be called with the following syntax:\n\nOperators can be used as prefix or infix in Pico:\n\nPico has the following types: string, integer, real and tables.\n\nIt does not have a native char type, so users should resort to size 1 strings.\n\nTables are compound data structures that may contain any of the regular data types.\n\nBoolean types are represented by functions (as in lambda calculus).\n\nOnly the usual if statement is included\n\n display('Hello World', eoln)\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6669494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6669494", "title": "Reedley College", "text": "Reedley College\n\nReedley College often referred to as Reedley, or RC, is a public community college located in Reedley, California, USA southeast of metropolitan Fresno and a three-hour drive south to Los Angeles or three-hour drive north to San Francisco. Reedley College is a part of the California Community Colleges system, within the State Center Community College District (SCCCD), and fully accredited by the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges of the Western Association of Schools and Colleges. The school offers Associate's Degrees, and students can earn a Certificate of Completion, or transfer to a 4-year university of their choice. Reedley College students can choose to either pursue their AA (Associates in Arts) or their AS (Associates in Science), or obtain their GED (General Education Degree). Reedley College offers more than 80 major degrees and certificates for students to choose from.\n\nReedley College was founded in May 1926, as Reedley Junior College on the campus of Reedley High School. It became a full community college on July 1, 1946. In 1954, the school district voted to move Reedley College to its own campus and in 1956 it moved to its present location on of what was once a part of the historic Thomas Law Reed Ranch, remain used as farmland. In 1963 the college joined the SCCCD and was renamed Kings River Community College in 1980. However, by popular demand, the name Reedley College was restored in July 1998.\n\nReedley College has two college centers, Madera Community College Center and Oakhurst Community College Center.\n\nThe Madera Community College Center is located in Madera, California on of donated land. It was originally opened at its current site in 1996 and has slowly continued to expand since. The newest addition to the campus was the construction of the . academic village which houses state of the art computer and science labs as well as additional classroom and office space. Future expansion projects are being planned. The campus currently offers some associate degree majors as well as general education courses transferable to four-year universities.\n\nThe Oakhurst Community College Center is located in Oakhurst, California and opened at its current location in 1996 on of land. The center is housed in four buildings adjacent to the town's library.\n\nClovis Community College, formerly known as the Willow International Center, was a Reedley College Center until July 1, 2015, when it became a separate campus of the State Center Community College District.\n\nReedley College is one of the only community colleges in the state of California to house students on campus. Sequoia Hall houses 40 women and 100 men. Sequoia Hall is located on the southern corner of the campus. One wing is for women and the other wing is for men. Construction of a new Sequoia Hall to replace the original aging facility started during the summer of 2008 and was completed in spring of 2010. The original building was razed.\n\nThe Reedley College Athletic Department fields teams in 12 intercollegiate sports with five men's teams and seven women's teams. The Tigers are a member of the Central Valley Conference in all sports except for football, which is a member of the Northern California Football Alliance (NCFA). The Reedley College football team won the Northern California Football Championship, the COA State Championship, and finished #1 in the nation in 2002 with a 12-0 record. The women's basketball team has been to the COA Final 16 more than 4 of the last 10 years. The women's tennis team has become a state power with an undefeated conference record since 2007 and various championship titles in recent years. Tiger athletes have gone on to four-year colleges such as Cal, Texas Tech, Fresno State, Oregon, Boise State, Minnesota, Texas State, and Michigan State, to name a few.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48598824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48598824", "title": "ScienceOpen", "text": "ScienceOpen\n\nScienceOpen is an interactive discovery environment for scholarly research across all disciplines. It is freely accessible for all and offers hosting and promotional services within the platform for publishers and institutes. The organization is based in Berlin and has a technical office in Boston. It is a member of CrossRef, ORCID, the Open Access Scholarly Publishers Association, STM Association and the Directory of Open Access Journals. The company was designated as one of “10 to Watch” by research advisory firm Outsell in its report “Open Access 2015: Market Size, Share, Forecast, and Trends.” \n\nScienceOpen began in 2013 when Alexander Grossmann, a professor of Publishing Management at the Leipzig University of Applied Sciences and former publishing director at scientific house De Gruyter, and Tibor Tscheke, president and CEO of content management systems company Ovitas, decided to start a platform that would allow researchers to share scientific information, both formally by publishing articles and participating in post-publication peer review, and informally by reviewing their colleagues’ work, providing endorsements and comments, and by updating their own papers.\n\nIts beta version was introduced in November 2013, and release 1.0 launched in May 2014. In September 2015, ScienceOpen hit the 10 million article record mark. In June 2016 they announced their partnership with SciELO, the largest publisher in Latin America, to enable discovery of SciELO content in ScienceOpen. Additional publishing partners include UCL Press, Emerald Publishing, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, PeerJ, Open Library of the Humanities, Society for Microbiology, Karger, Equinox, Hogrefe, EDPSciences, UTS ePRESS, Higher Education Press , Europes Journal for Psychology, The Italian Society of Victimology and more.\n\nAs of January 2018 the site had 38 million articles and records from PubMed Central, ArXiv, PubMed, SciELO, and numerous individual publishers. ScienceOpen provides a publicly available citation index which is free for researchers to use wherever they are and is provided at no cost to libraries, which in February 2016 was dubbed the Open Citation Index. \n\nScienceOpen offers open access journal hosting services, as well as advanced indexing and promotional services that showcase customer content within the discovery platform.\n\nEvery research article on ScienceOpen has a traceable genealogy through citations, a public peer review process, and social interaction tracked by altmetrics, which they call research \"context\". The technology behind the ScienceOpen platform is provided by Ovitas.\n\nScienceOpen appoints members of the research community as Collection Editors who curate articles from multiple publishers in any topic. Collections support discovery of and within research communities. All content on the platform is available for post-publication peer review by scientific members with five or more peer-reviewed publications on their ORCID, and all articles can be publicly commented on by members with one or more items.\n\nScienceOpen is findable on YouTube, LinkedIn, Facebook, and Twitter.\n\n\nScienceOpen has its headquarters located at Pappelallee 78-79, 10437 Berlin, Germany and its technical hub is at 155 Middlesex Turnpike, Burlington, MA 01803, USA.\n\n"}
{"id": "11990353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11990353", "title": "Secretary of State for Children, Schools and Families", "text": "Secretary of State for Children, Schools and Families\n\nThe Secretary of State for Children, Schools and Families was a Cabinet minister post in the United Kingdom. The post was created on 28 June 2007 after the disbanding of the Department for Education and Skills by Gordon Brown. The only Secretary of State with this title was Ed Balls, a former treasury aide to Brown. He was head of the Department for Children, Schools and Families responsible for coordinating work across Government relevant to youth justice, the \"respect agenda\" and family policy, while also taking over responsibility for education policy up to the age of 19 in England from the Department for Education and Skills, with the Secretary of State for Innovation, Universities and Skills being responsible for education after that age. Other responsibilities included inputs into the Government's strategy for ending child poverty, with the Department for Work and Pensions and into promoting the health of all children by working with the Department of Culture, Media and Sport.\n\nOn May 12, 2010, the Department was again renamed and Michael Gove was appointed Secretary of State for Education.\n\nColour key (for political parties):\n"}
{"id": "26576261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26576261", "title": "Sophia Blackmore", "text": "Sophia Blackmore\n\nSophia Blackmore was an Australian missionary. She founded the Fairfield Methodist Schools, and also Methodist Girls' School in Singapore. She was the first woman missionary sent by the Methodist Women's Foreign Missionary Society to Singapore. She also set up a boarding home for girls, supported the early Methodist Straits Chinese Christian work, published a Christian periodical in Baba Malay and is closely associated with the founding of Kampong Kapor Methodist Church.\n\nBorn 100 miles off Sydney, Australia, Blackmore came from a devout Christian family from London who had migrated south in the 1850s. Her mother's family had had associations with missionary greats such as Robert Morrison, Robert Moffat and David Livingstone while her father was an established solicitor in New South Wales. She was one of eight children.\n\nInfluenced by Isabella Leonard, a visiting American missionary, Blackmore left for India on 10 December 1886 with her mind set on serving China. She was sent under the auspices of the Women's Foreign Missionary Society (WFMS) of the American Methodist Episcopal Church since single women serving as missionaries were unusual and Blackmore's Australian church did not support such a venture. However, Blackmore found no permanent position when she arrived in India. Then in Madras, she met Reverend William Oldham who had gone to India for a conference. This chance meeting opened the doors for Blackmore to contribute to the growing missionary field in Malaya. To prepare for her move, Blackmore took Malay lessons from a family in Moradabad. The couple had previously resided in Singapore. It was also in Moradabad that Blackmore was officiated into the Methodist Episcopal Church.\n\nOn her arrival in Singapore on 16 July 1887, Blackmore was encouraged by the Oldhams' work which included the local Methodist Episcopal Church and the Anglo-Chinese School at Coleman Street. Within a month, Blackmore helped open a school for Tamil girls on 15 August 1887, with the support of the Reverend Oldham, several members of the Indian community and a teacher named Alexander Hagedorn (Mrs Alexander Fox). Known originally as the Tamil Girls' School, the school was later renamed the Methodist Girls' School. The school started in a small shophouse on Short Street. By 1925 the school was overcrowded, which precipitated a move to Mount Sophia, where it remained there until 1992 before being moved to its current location.\n\nVisiting homes by horse-carriage in the estates bounded by Telok Ayer and Neil Road, she was led to the establishment of a second school for girls. Tan Keong Saik, along with other influential Chinese families, had persuaded her to teach their daughters - an uncommon request as girls were not a priority for education amongst the Chinese then. A widow, Nonya Boon, later offered Blackmore her home along Cross Street to start a school for girls. Beginning with just eight girls, the Anglo-Chinese Girls' School began in August 1888. Under the leadership of Emma Ferris, who was principal from 1892-1894, the school grew and eventually became the Fairfield Methodist Girls' School. In 1983, the school went co-educational and the school was renamed as the Fairfield Methodist Secondary School.\n\nEntrusted with the care of a young girl when she first arrived in Singapore, Blackmore saw the need for a home for girls. Thus on 1 May 1890, a boarding home was set up for girls. First located at Sophia Road, the home moved several times along locations up the hill until its move to a bungalow at No. 4 Sophia Road. The house stood at the pinnacle of the hillock with a bird's eye view of the city. It was known initially as the Deaconess Home because it also housed many single lady missionaries and teachers. It is now more familiarly known as Nind Home (1912) after Mary C. Nind. The home served as a residence to many of the school-going girls and several runaways, \"mui tsais\", abandoned girls and orphans. The Blackmore's girls, as they became known, were nurtured in the Christian faith and became suitable mates for Christian boys from similar homes in Malacca and Singapore.\n\nTo help her in her work, a certain Inche Ismail taught the young Blackmore High Malay. However, a form of market Malay was used as the lingua franca by the various races that poured into Singapore at the turn of the 20th century. Blackmore had therefore to adapt her knowledge of Malay in her work with the Indians, Malays and the Straits Chinese. She became proficient enough in local street Malay to translate hymns, and published the Baba Malay periodical, Sahabat using William Shellabear's printing press. The paper was originally meant for women, but it became so popular that its distribution eventually went beyond Penang.\n\nIn 1894, Blackmore's home became the base for a Straits Chinese church headed by Goh Hood Keng, beginning with just six members and 16 probationers. Prior to this, Blackmore had already been preaching regularly in Malay on Sundays to girls from the Nind Home, Epworth boys' home and workers from the Missionary Press. Blackmore would accompany Reverend Goh and Dr Benjamin F. West to preach in the open-air at Telok Ayer. By 1901, the blossoming Straits Chinese church had grown large enough to move to the Christian Institute at Middle Road, and eventually moving to Kampong Kapor, when it was renamed the Straits Chinese Methodist Church, and eventually Kampong Kapor Methodist Church. The Kampong Kapor Methodist Church thus traces beginnings to Blackmore's early preaching work in the 1890s.\n\nThe Bible Women's Training School was organised to train local women to carry on the duties of Christian social work that had already been established. Blackmore was the first to head it between 1901 and 1903. The School trained Eurasian ladies and gradually Chinese women from various parts of Malaya, in home visitation. The Bible Women's Training School was considered ahead of its time in developing local, self-supporting work.\nBlackmore retired to Australia in 1927 though she did make several visits to Singapore prior to the outbreak of World War II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2330654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2330654", "title": "United Nations Girls' Education Initiative", "text": "United Nations Girls' Education Initiative\n\nThe United Nations Girls’ Education Initiative (UNGEI) is an initiative launched by the United Nations in 2000 at the World Education Forum in Dakar at the primary school Ndiarème B. It aims to reduce the gender gap in schooling for girls and to give girls equal access to all levels of education. \n\nAdopted at the June 13, 2008, meeting of the UNGEI Global Advisory Committee in Kathmandu, Nepal, the UNGEI vision statement is \"A world where all girls and boys are empowered through quality education to realize their full potential and contribute to transforming societies where gender equality becomes a reality.\"\n\nUNGEI, the EFA (Education for All) flagship for girls' education, is a partnership that embraces the United Nations system, governments, donor countries, non-governmental organizations, civil society, the private sector, and communities and families. UNGEI provides stakeholders with a platform for action and galvanizes their efforts to get girls in school.\n\nSome of the fundamental principles of the initiative include expanding the quality of education across the globe for all, improving the equality of access to education, and focusing on gender-responsive education. Within a country's education system, the education of girls must be mainstreamed, according to the initiative.\n\nThe UNGEI creators decided to take a 4-step approach to analyze the current education systems in order to monitor and evaluate change over time. The first step being diagnosing the current extent of girls' education in different regions. Next, locating supply factors in girls' education such as policies, reform, funding, etc. Afterward, identifying demand factors in education such as poverty, attitudes, and cultural practices affecting education rates. Lastly, pinpointing stakeholders in girls' education at various levels. Together, these steps provided UNGEI with a foundation for proper analysis of the current education system before moving forward. \n\nUNICEF is the lead agency and Secretariat for UNGEI. A Global Advisory Committee is composed of key partners who share in the planning, decision-making, guidance and accountability of UNGEI. UNGEI Focal Points in different regions facilitate the coordination of girls' education strategies and interventions at the country level. The purpose is not, however, limited to basic education; it focuses on a systematic approach. \n\nAt the country level, UNGEI supports country-led development and seeks to influence decision-making and investments to ensure gender equity and equality in national education policies, plans and programmes. It operates as a mechanism to advance education strategies and the technical capacity to assist countries. UNGEI partners mobilize resources for both targeted project interventions and country programmes as well as large scale systemic interventions designed to impact on the whole education system. UNGEI streamlines its efforts through the strategic use of existing mechanisms such as Poverty Reduction Strategies, sector-wide approaches and UN development assistance frameworks. \n\nIn May 2010, UNGEI organised the E4 conference on 'Engendering Empowerment: Education and Equality', held in Dakar, Senegal, and attended by a broad range of actors from national governments, UN agencies, and civil society.\n\nUNGEI members are actively involved in the EFA Working Group coordinated by UNESCO, the EFA Fast Track Initiative led by the World Bank and the Acceleration Strategy for Girls' Education developed by UNICEF. \n\nPartners include:\n\n"}
{"id": "172675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172675", "title": "Virginia Commonwealth University", "text": "Virginia Commonwealth University\n\nVirginia Commonwealth University (VCU) is a public research university located in Richmond, Virginia. MCV was founded in 1838 as the medical department of Hampden–Sydney College, becoming the Medical College of Virginia in 1854. In 1968, the Virginia General Assembly merged MCV with the Richmond Professional Institute, founded in 1917, to create Virginia Commonwealth University. In 2018, more than 31,000 students pursue 217 degree and certificate programs through VCU's 11 schools and three colleges. The VCU Health System supports the university's health care education, research and patient care mission.\n\nWith a record $270.3 million in sponsored research funding in the fiscal year 2014–15, VCU is designated as \"R1: Doctoral University - Highest Research Activity\" by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education. A broad array of university-approved centers and institutes of excellence, involving faculty from multiple disciplines in public policy, biotechnology and health care discoveries, supports the university's research mission. Twenty-eight graduate and first-professional programs are ranked by \"U.S. News & World Report\" as among the best in the country. VCU's athletic teams compete in Division I of the NCAA and are collectively known as the VCU Rams. They are members of the Atlantic 10 Conference. The VCU campus includes historic buildings such as the Ginter House, now used by the school's provost.\n\nAlthough officially created with the merger of the Richmond Professional Institute (RPI) and Medical College of Virginia (MCV) in 1968, VCU's history began in 1838 when the Medical Department of Hampden-Sydney College opened in Richmond. In 1844, it moved into its first permanent home, the Egyptian Building. In 1854, the Medical Department of Hampden–Sydney College received an independent charter from the Virginia General Assembly and became the \"Medical College of Virginia\" (MCV). A few years later in 1860, MCV conveyed all its property to the Commonwealth of Virginia and becomes a state institution in exchange for $30,000. In 1893, the College of Physicians and Surgeons, later University College of Medicine, was established by Hunter Holmes McGuire just three blocks away from MCV. In 1912, McGuire Hall opened as the new home of the University College of Medicine. The following year, MCV and UCM merged through the efforts of George Ben Johnston and Stuart McGuire. MCV acquired the Memorial Hospital as a result of the merger.\n\nRichmond Professional Institute traces its roots back to 1917, when it began as the Richmond School of Social Work and Public Health. In 1925, it became the Richmond division of The College of William & Mary. In 1939, this division became the Richmond Professional Institute of The College of William & Mary\" (RPI). In 1947, the MCV Foundation was incorporated, and in 1962 RPI separated from William & Mary to become an independent state institution. Then in 1968, state legislation (Wayne Commission Report) merged MCV and RPI to become Virginia Commonwealth University. VCU claims 1838 as its founding date on its official seal and on promotional materials.\n\nIn 2013, VCU was awarded a $62 million federal grant to oversee a national research consortium of universities, hospitals and clinics to study what happens to service members and veterans who suffer mild traumatic brain injuries or concussions.\n\nIn 2010, VCU received a $20 million National Institutes of Health grant to join a nationwide consortium of research institutions working to turn laboratory discoveries into treatments for patients. The Clinical and Translational Science Award made VCU the only academic health center in Virginia to join the prestigious CTSA network. In 2011, The Carnegie Foundation elevated Virginia Commonwealth University to \"Very High Research Activity,\" with over 255 million in sponsored research.\n\nIn 2009, Michael Rao was appointed the fifth president of VCU and continues in his tenure to focus on VCU's growth as a premier public research university.\n\nIn 2018, a series of protests by adjunct faculty were held at VCU, over low pay and no benefits. Ahead of the 2018-19 budget, $4.2 million was allocated to increase adjunct faculty funding from $800 to $1,000 per credit hour, about $1,000 less than what the coalition was demanding.\n\nWarren W. Brandt served as the first president of VCU. During his tenure, 32 degree programs were added, and the School of Allied Health Professions and the School of Community Services were established. In addition, more than $20 million of new construction was completed or initiated on both campuses, including the James Branch Cabell Library, Rhoads Hall, the School of Business building, the Larrick Student Center and a large addition to Sanger Hall.\n\nIn the 1980s, and under the leadership of VCU President Edmund Ackell, a major overhaul of the university's governance system and administrative structure was initiated. Dr. Ackell lead the administration in instituting a new system for both short-range and long-range university planning; establishing faculty convocation and a new set of faculty tenure and promotion guidelines; and establishing greater access to the community by supporting the use of the university's research and educational resources to meet social needs.\n\nEugene Trani became the president of VCU in 1990. During his tenure VCU became one of the largest universities in Virginia, growing from an enrollment of 21,764 in 1990, to 32,284 at the time of his retirement. VCU was the state's first university to enroll over 30,000 students. Under Dr. Trani's leadership VCU and the VCU Health System undertook more than $2.2 billion in capital construction and renovation projects.\nIn February 2006, VCU established VCU 2020 Vision for Excellence, a strategic plan to continue to fulfill VCU's mission as a leading urban research institution for the 21st century and develop more than $1 billion in new academic, medical, recreation, student housing, and parking facilities on VCU's Monroe Park and MCV Campuses.\n\nQuest for Distinction, the university's strategic plan, was launched by Dr. Rao in 2011. It sets priorities of academic excellence, research that enhances the quality of life, human health and well-being, and ongoing contribution to the economic vitality and cultural richness of the community. Specific initiatives include the continued recruitment of high-quality faculty and resource development aimed at enhancing the overall student experience. The latest master plan lays out over 3 billion dollars in new construction and renovations that would provide housing for an additional 1,300 students, increase parking for several thousand cars and build 3 million additional square feet of academic and research space.\n\nVirginia Commonwealth University has two main campuses in Richmond, Va.: the Monroe Park Campus, located west of downtown Richmond, and the MCV Campus in the urban center. Additionally, VCU has a branch campus in Education City, Doha, Qatar, along with numerous regional facilities.\n\nNamed after the city park, the 90.6-acre Monroe Park Campus took its name in June 2004, replacing the former name, the Academic Campus of VCU. The Monroe Park Campus houses most of VCU's general education facilities, and is situated on the eastern end of the Fan district, a historic, late 19th-century neighborhood adjacent to downtown Richmond. Prior to the merger of the Richmond Professional Institute and the Medical College of Virginia, the campus was the home to the entire Richmond Professional Institute. Today, the campus has a mixture of modern and vintage buildings, with over 40 structures built before 1900.\n\nThe 52.3-acre MCV Campus is home to the VCU Medical Center. This includes the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Allied Health, Nursing, and the medical center, which is overseen by the VCU Health System Authority. The campus is also home to the Massey Cancer Center (an NCI-designated Cancer Center) and the Children's Hospital of Richmond at VCU. The MCV Campus is an integral part of Richmond in the old Court End district. The neighborhood is located adjacent to the city's business and financial district near the state capitol. VCU's Health Sciences schools comprise the School of Allied Health Professions, the School of Dentistry, the School of Medicine, the School of Nursing, and the School of Pharmacy.\n\nVCUarts Qatar is VCU School of the Arts' branch campus located in State of Qatar.\n\nVCUarts Qatar is the Qatar campus of the Virginia Commonwealth University School of the Arts in Richmond, Virginia. It was established in 1998 through a partnership with Qatar Foundation and was the first university to open its doors in Education City. The contract was renewed in July 2012 and goes through July 2022. VCUarts Qatar provides students the opportunity to earn a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in Graphic Design, Interior Design, Fashion Design, Art History, or Painting and Printmaking and a Master of Fine Arts degree in Design Studies. As part of the contract, VCU is not allowed to open any other degree-granting arts or design programs in other Middle Eastern countries.\n\nIn addition to smart classrooms, the VCUarts Qatar campus is primarily composed of studios and workspaces for its art programs, an international gallery and a library. The campus also contains things needed for daily student life such as a café, prayer rooms, a student lounge, and a central hall which can be used for a variety of events. Through its programs, VCUarts Qatar's mission is to \"develop the individual capacity to lead innovations in the creative and cultural professions in Qatar and the region.\"\n\nVCUarts Qatar is accredited by National Association of Schools of Art & Design, The Southern Association of Colleges and Schools and Council for Interior Design Accreditation.\n\nIn 2010, VCUarts Qatar more than doubled its facilities through a major expansion project. The expansion has allowed for the integration of the university's undergraduate and graduate programs under one roof, the connection of the research and entrepreneurship offices with curricular programs, and the expansion of technical spaces to support all forms of visualization and research with a media lab, digital fabrication lab, printmaking studios, photography studio, an expanded library and the first materials library in the region.\n\nThe campus is working alongside the Supreme Education Council and Qatar Foundation toward reaching the Qatar National Vision 2030.\n\nIn 2015, VCUarts Qatar has 63 Faculty representing for 15 different nationalities. The number of students is 361 Students representing 41 nationalities which shows its diversity. So far VCUarts Qatar has 620 Alumni representing 33 nationalities. VCU received about $42 million in 2014 to operate the campus. A portion of this is a management fee, which in previous years was $3.4 million, allowing the campus to profit off of the campus. VCU is not the only US campus in Education City, and it, along with the other universities, are the subject of criticism of their implicit acceptance of Qatar's sponsorship of terrorism and egregious human rights violations.\n\n\n\nVCU offers Baccalaureate, Master's and Doctoral degrees, as well as Professional and Certificate courses.\n\nSeventy-nine of VCU's programs are unique to Virginia, such as the Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness major in the L. Douglas Wilder School of Government and Public Affairs, as well as the Real Estate and Urban Land Development degree in VCU's School of Business. The university also offers a wide range of study options with 225 certificate, undergraduate, graduate, professional and doctoral degrees in the arts, sciences and humanities.\n\nThe university's medical campus provides students with several opportunities for postgraduate study. Under the Guaranteed Admission Program, select incoming undergraduates who maintain a high academic standard are guaranteed a spot in a number of professional health science programs.\n\nVCU's Academic Scholars Program in Real Environments (ASPiRE), combines the living-learning experience with community engagement. Launched in fall 2012, VCU ASPiRE links students with their community and with each other through a coordinated educational and service-learning curriculum and living experience.\n\nThe VCU Honors College is available to students meeting specific SAT/ACT and GPA criteria. Through the Honors College eligible students are offered the Guaranteed Admission Program, which offers a variety of options for gaining early admission into the professional health science and graduate programs at VCU. In addition, the Honors College also offers students the ability to enroll in classes open only to honors students, live in honors-only residence halls, apply for scholarships only available to honors students, and participate in The Honors College Mentorship Program and other learning experiences that supplement general classroom study.\n\nVCU Globe prepares undergraduates to live and work in a global environment, expanding students' identities as global citizens through course work, co-curricular activities and the residential experience.\n\nVCU LEAD is focused on developing graduates who can successfully lead professional and civic organizations at a local, national, and global level within their respective fields.\n\nVCU Innovate is to spur a mindset and cross-disciplinary culture that enables students to pursue innovation and entrepreneurship efforts.\n\nVCU Life Sciences comprises three units: the Center for the Study of Biological Complexity (CSBC), the Center for Environmental Studies (CES), and the Rice Center for Environmental Life Sciences. VCU Life Sciences offers an undergraduate and graduate programs as well as a PhD program in Integrated Life Sciences (ILS). Note that the Department of Biology is a separate unit independent of Life Sciences although there are numerous active interactions between the two. The highly interdisciplinary, systems-based program relies on hundreds of faculty members. With activities at the local, regional and national levels, VCU Life Sciences helps increase public literacy in the life sciences and provides an assessment of American public attitudes toward the field.\n\nVCU schools of the Arts, Business, and Engineering have collaborated to create the VCU da Vinci Center for Innovation in Product Design and Development. Student teams from these schools take on a product development or design challenge posed by one of the Center's industry partners. Such cross-disciplinary educational opportunities prepare students for management roles in the global, technology-driven workplace of the 21st century. In addition to the current collaboration, the College of Humanities and Sciences joined the Center late in the Fall 2012 semester. The VCU da Vinci Center currently offers an Undergraduate Certificate and a master's degree in Product Innovation. The Masters of Product Innovation is the first of its kind in the United States. The center was recognized by a report presented to President Obama as one of the 29 best programs to offer a STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math) degree. It was the only program in Virginia to be included on the list.\n\nThe VCU da Vinci Program also offers VCU Innovate Living Learning Program, which gives students the opportunity to live among their like-minded peers in an innovation-focused dorm building. Students earn a Certificate of Completion.\n\nVCU's International Partnership Universities Initiative provides faculty and students the opportunity for involvement and collaboration in an international and multicultural arena. Fifteen international Partnership Universities and VCU School in Qatar are strategically located in 11 countries.\n\nAccording to the 2016 \"U.S. News & World Report\", VCU is classified as a Tier 1 University with an overall National University rank of No. 156 and holds a rank of No. 84 among all public colleges and universities in the United States.\n\nThe Academic Ranking of World Universities conducted in 2005 by the Institute of Higher Education at Shanghai Jiao Tong University ranks VCU in the top 100 universities in North & Latin America and one of the top 200 universities in the world.\n\nVirginia Commonwealth University School of the Arts (VCUarts) is ranked the No. 1 public university school of arts and design in the country (#4 among public & private institutions) by \"U.S. News & World Report\" in 2015. VCUarts is the only public university arts and design school in the country to ever be ranked this high in overall ranking. Indeed, the \"New York Times\" called it \"that rare public research institution that has put the arts front and center\". The VCU Brandcenter, the School of Business' graduate program in advertising, has also been ranked first in the nation by \"Creativity Magazine\" and as one of the top 60 design schools in the world by \"BusinessWeek\".\n\nVCU's Masters of Science in Health Administration program was ranked second by Modern Healthcare. The University's Health System earned national Magnet nursing designation by the American Nurses Credentialing Center, and has twice been named one of the Solucient Top 100 Hospitals in the United States by Solucient Corporation. In research the school has been ranked as a top American university by Lombardi Program on Measuring University Performance and a top 100 university by the National Science Foundation. VCU Engineering, started in 1996 has seen tremendous growth and completely new facilities. William F. Goodwin, Chairman of the VCU School of Engineering Foundation Board of Trustees, has set an ambitious objective for the engineering program. He's aiming for \"25 in 25\" – a top 25 engineering-school rank within 25 years. , U.S News & Report ranks the Biomedical Engineering program 58th, Computer Engineering program 84th, Electrical/Electronic/Communications Engineering 89th in the United States. The School of Business currently ranks as the No. 51 part-time MBA program and No. 97 best undergraduate business program in the United States according to \"Bloomberg Businessweek\" and \"U.S. News & World Report\", respectively.\n\nAccording to the 2012 \"U.S. News & World Report\" VCU School of Social Work is ranked 11 and the Public Affairs graduate program is currently ranked 53 in the nation. The VCU SportsCenter is a graduate program offering a master's degree in Sports Leadership. David Maraghy co-founded and served as Executive Director of the program until 2002. It is currently directed by Nathan Tomasini. One of the program's elite events is known as Villa 7 which began as a forum where athletic directors could share ideas and meet with the country's elite assistant basketball coaches.\n\nVCU is among the top 100 institutions according to the National Science Foundation rankings.\n\nIn its history, one faculty member and one alumnus have won a Nobel Prize: Baruj Benacerraf, an alumnus of the Medical College of Virginia, was awarded the 1980 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, and John Fenn, a professor in the College of Humanities & Sciences, was awarded the 2002 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.\n\nIn the medical field, VCU has had four professors elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences' Institute of Medicine, most recently Steven Woolf in 2001.\n\nHistorically, notable faculty members include Charles-Édouard Brown-Séquard, M.D., for whom Brown-Séquard syndrome is named. Hunter McGuire, M.D., was the Confederate surgeon for General Thomas J. \"Stonewall\" Jackson before he founded the \"University College of Medicine\", which later merged with Medical College of Virginia where he became the Chairman of Surgery. The Hunter Holmes McGuire Veterans Administration Medical Center is named in his honor.\n\nJennifer Johnson's (Professor of Sociology) work at the Department of Defense in the area of Social Network Analysis won her the 2006 Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Joint Distinguished Civilian Service Award, which is the highest-ranking civilian service award given by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Dr. Johnson was also awarded the 2004 Analyst of the Quarter by the Joint Warfare Analysis Center for her work on the Social Network Analysis Methodology Team. Also Gevork Minaskanian, cofounder of Aderis Pharmaceuticals, developers of Rotigotine, a dopamine agonist for treatment of Parkinson's disease, teaches at VCU.\n\nThe theatre department includes two-time Tony Award nominee, costume designer Toni-Leslie James , James's work on Broadway , film, and television is known internationally. Tony Award nominated scenic designer Scott Bradley recently joined the faculty. The department's new chair Sharon Ott received the 1997 Regional Theatre Tony Award on behalf of Berkeley Repertory Theatre . Broadway veterans Keith Byron Kirk, David Emerson Toney, David Leong, Neno Russell, and Bonnie McCoy are also teaching faculty for the department; film actor Bostin Christopher is also on the faculty.\n\nThe VCU Counseling Psychology Graduate Program was ranked 3rd in the nation in the Faculty Scholarly Productivity Index in 2007. The VCU Public Administration program in the L. Douglas Wilder School for Government and Public Affairs was ranked 9th in the nation by the Faculty Scholarly Productivity Index in 2007.\n\nThe VCU Libraries is one of the largest research libraries in Virginia. In 2018, VCU Libraries became the 125th member of the august Association of Research Libraries.\n\nThe libraries hold more than 3 million volumes (including more than 665,000 electronic books) and extensive journal and database holdings. Collection strengths include the arts, behavioral sciences, business, chemistry, clinical medicine, education, health and life sciences, public affairs, and social work. The VCU Libraries hosts 2.5 million visitors each year.\n\nThe James Branch Cabell Library supports the Monroe Park Campus. Its Special Collections and Archives department houses one of the largest book art collections in the Southeast and the fifth largest graphic novel and comic book collection in the United States. It also includes records of local organizations and papers of numerous Virginia writers, artists and social activists from Virginia's under-documented communities, and is the repository of the Will Eisner Comic Industry Awards. In early 2016, VCU Libraries acquired a rare copy of All-Negro Comics No. 1.\n\nThe Tompkins–McCaw Library for the Health Sciences on the MCV Campus has the largest medical collection in the state, with extensive journal collections dating back to the 19th century. Special collections maintain the papers of health care practitioners and the history of health care in Virginia. Its Medical Artifacts Collection has more than 6,000 instruments and equipment related to the history of health care in Virginia over the last 150 years.\n\nIn March 2016, a 93,000-square-foot expansion of Cabell Library was dedicated. The new space has allowed for the addition of 25 new study rooms, a graduate and faculty reading room, a silent reading room and \"The Workshop,\" a multimedia production suite, a gaming suite, and a makerspace. Ninety percent of the new space is dedicated to student and researcher use rather than staff offices or book storage.\n\nThe VCU Libraries offers electronic access to some of its special collections, including papers, images, and sound files relating to civil rights, Richmond architecture, civil war medicine, comic-book and cartooning arts, medical artifacts, and the history of VCU.\n\nLibrary initiatives have included the 2014 Freedom Now Project, which published civil rights protests in 1963 Prince Edward County, Virginia and invited citizens to come forward to help identify participants and tell these untold stories. In 2015, a 19th-century map overlaid with current geospacial data and Google maps allowed researchers and the public to explore the history and architecture of Richmond. VCU Libraries maintains The Social Welfare History Project, an online resource documenting the history of social reform movements and social welfare. The Social Welfare History Image Portal, a companion site hosting primary source materials contributed by an eclectic group of partner institutions, supports research and promotes the use of archival materials related to social welfare history and reform movements.\n\nThe student body consists of 57% female students and 42% male students. Out-of-state students have increased to 15% as of the fall of 2011, and the remaining 85% of students are from Virginia. Demographically, the student body is 51% white, 15% African American, 12% Asian, 7% Hispanic, 6% International, less than 1% Native American and 8% Unknown.\n\nMore than 79% of VCU freshmen live on campus. VCU's current residential hall capacity is around 6,200 students. Because of the prominent location within the city of Richmond, many upperclassmen live in student apartments located around the campus, specifically in The Fan, Oregon Hill or the Carver neighborhood, and are still able to walk or bike to their classes.\n\nDining Services at VCU is contracted to ARAMARK Higher Education. Undergraduate students living in a dorm-style university residence hall are required to purchase a residential dining plan. VCU Dining Services offers a variety of plans that allow a specific number of \"Swipes\" and \"Dining Dollars\" to be used throughout a semester. All unused swipes and dining dollars are forfeited at the end of each semester. \"Swipes\" are described as the equivalent of one-meal. Swipes can be used to enter Shafer Court Dining Center, the buffet style dining hall, and through swipe exchanges at various VCU retail restaurants during specific times. \"Dining Dollars\" allow students the opportunity to purchase tax-free meals at any VCU retail restaurant. Commuter students, students living off campus, faculty, and staff have the option of purchasing a nonresidential dining plan. Many dining options are available at restaurants not affiliated with VCU within a short walking distance. Chipotle, Panera Bread, Domino's, Papa John's and Five Guys are some of the most popular ones.\n\nVCU has more than 500 registered student organizations in which students can be involved. VCU boasts a well-established net of ethnic and cultural, religious, recreational and special interest organizations. There are two student government associations at VCU, one for each campus.\n\nVCU is also an academic partner to the largest French Film Festival in the United States. Founded in 1993, the total participation in 2012 has grown to more than 22,000 entries for the 27 films.\n\nVCU offers many student-run media outlets that allow students to express themselves without censorship or administrative control. See more at www.vcustudentmedia.com. \n\nRecreational Sports offers facilities on both campuses. Opened in spring 2010, the newly renovated Cary Street Gym includes the 18,000-square-foot fitness center, a rock climbing wall, two pools, racquetball and basketball courts, a track and an aerobics mezzanine.\n\nThe MCV Campus Recreation and Aquatic Center provide space for basketball, volleyball, racquetball and other sports. A 25-meter, six-lane pool is available for lap swimming, water basketball and volleyball.\nOuting Rental Center offers equipment such as backpacks, sleeping bags, tents and canoes as well as books, maps, videos and trail guides at affordable rental rates.\n\nThe VCU Outdoor Adventure Program provides a full schedule of day trips and weekend excursions focused on such outdoor activities as camping, kayaking, white-water rafting, canoeing and caving.\n\nService learning at VCU is a course-based, credit-bearing educational experience in which students participate in an organized service activity that meets community-identified needs. More than 3,000 VCU students are enrolled in service learning at VCU.\n\nVirginia Commonwealth University hosts 36 international fraternities and sororities across four governing councils with over 1,700 students. Within the student body, a total of 6.3% of women join a sorority and 8% of men join a fraternity. VCU's fraternity and sorority community has grown particularly rapidly in the last few years. .\n\nList of VCU's Fraternity and Sorority Chapters\n\nVCU's police force consists of 99 sworn police officers and more than 200 security personnel. VCU also provides a free Security Escort service (RAM SAFE) to students and faculty to assist them in reaching their destination and have stationed more than 370 Emergency Reporting Telephone Systems in various areas throughout campus.\n\nHaving competed at the NCAA Division I level for little more than 30 years, Virginia Commonwealth University has sponsored a broad-based program of intercollegiate athletics. The VCU Rams have won in excess of 30 conference championships, participated in numerous NCAA post-season championship events, including a run to the Final Four in men's basketball in 2011, and had a number of All-Americans—both academic and athletic. VCU currently sponsors sixteen varsity teams in NCAA Division I play through the Atlantic 10 Conference (A10).\n\nVCU Men's tennis is one of the school's most successful programs. The team is coached by Paul Kostin who is one of five Division I coaches to reach the 900-victory mark. The Men's tennis team holds 12 CAA Championships, 18 NCAA tournament appearances, and 17 years of finishing in the top 25 rankings in the country. In 2000, VCU men's tennis had its best season, finishing runner up to Stanford in the NCAA Finals Championship match. The team finished with a No. 9 ranking in the country.\n\nAlso under coach Paul Kostin, VCU's women's tennis team has 3 CAA championships, 12 NCAA appearances, and 8 years in the top 25.\n\nVCU Baseball has won a total of 3 CAA Championships and has been to a total of 8 NCAA Regionals. VCU Baseball's head coach is Shawn Stiffler, and games are played at The Diamond (Richmond, Virginia).\n\nOther intercollegiate sports include Men and Women's Basketball, Men and Women's Cross Country, Field Hockey, Golf, Men and Women's Soccer (played at Sports Backers Stadium), Men and Women's Track and Field, Volleyball, and Women's Lacrosse.\n\nVCU also has many student run club teams. These sports not sponsored by the university include coed & allgirl cheerleading, baseball, softball, men's and women's rugby union, ice hockey, ultimate, men's and women's lacrosse, cycling, men's and women's crew and dodgeball. Previous club sports have also included wrestling and tennis.\n\nVCU reached the Final Four in the 2011 NCAA tournament. The team has won a total of 9 conference championships with the most recent coming in 2015, the team's first A10 championship win. The VCU Rams currently play at the Stuart C. Siegel Center, where they hold the 11th highest Home Court winning percentage in Division I basketball with a winning percentage of .8579\n\nIn the 2011 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament, VCU qualified as an at-large bid, having to play in the newly formatted tournament's \"First Four\" against USC. The decision to allow VCU to participate in the tournament was widely criticized among pundits and the media. VCU defeated USC 59–46 in the \"First Four\" play-in game. VCU then went on to upset Georgetown 74–56 in the round of 64. The 11th-seeded VCU Rams then upset 3rd-seeded Purdue 94–76 to advance to the Sweet 16 for the first time in school history. In the sweet sixteen, VCU defeated 10th-seeded Florida State 72–71 on a last second bucket in overtime to advance to the Elite 8 for the first time in school history. VCU beat the No. 1 seed Kansas in the Southwest Regional final by a score of 71–61. It was the Rams' first trip to the Final Four. Against Butler in the Final Four, VCU lost 70–62. The 2010–11 VCU Rams men's basketball team finished 6th in the ESPN/USA Today Coaches Poll at the end of the season. This was the highest ranking in VCU's history and the highest ranking of any team from the CAA.\n\nFormer WNBA player and Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer Beth Cunningham coaches the VCU Rams women's team.\n\nThe VCU Rams Women's team enjoyed the most successful season in their history in the 2008–2009 season. The team finished the season with a mark of 26–7 overall and a 15–3 conference record. Notably the team was a perfect 16–0 at home. After finishing second in their conference the team headed to their first ever NCAA tournament game as the 10th seed, where the No. 7 seeded Rutgers eliminated them 57–51 on their home court. In the 2009–2010 season Cunningham led the Rams to the NIT Sweet Sixteen where they were eliminated by Syracuse.\n\nVCU's main rival is Old Dominion University. The \"VCU-ODU basketball rivalry\" is often regarded as the best college basketball rivalry in the Commonwealth of Virginia. The Rams' intra-city rivalry with University of Richmond (\"Black & Blue Classic\"), is bound to heat up now that the two schools are playing in the same conference again for the first time since 2001.\n\nThe Rowdy Rams is a student-run athletic support organization that focuses on VCU men's basketball, while also attending and supporting the university's 16 other varsity teams. The group began during the 2002–2003 basketball season when a group of VCU Pep Band members and other students began coordinating cheers together and taking road trips to away games. The following year, the Rowdy Rams procured funding from the SGA and sponsorship from VCU's Athletic Department, solidifying themselves as an official organization. The Rowdy Rams offer members priority seating to all VCU men's basketball home games, a discount card for local restaurants and businesses, a free T-shirt, and free bus trips to road games.\n\nIn April 2011, The Rowdy Rams followed the men's basketball team to Houston for the Final Four. Despite the team's upset by Butler University, the fan organization never regretted their trip. \"Our Rowdy Rams came here in full force; the spirit was on the court; you could feel it all around the arena.\"\n\nIn May 2013, The Rowdy Rams won the annual Naismith Student Section of the Year award, which awards the most passionate student section in college basketball.\n\nVCU has a total of 182,746 alumni with 60,534 alumni living in the Richmond Metro Area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3004464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3004464", "title": "Virginia E. Johnson", "text": "Virginia E. Johnson\n\nVirginia E. Johnson, born Mary Virginia Eshelman (February 11, 1925 – July 24, 2013), was an American sexologist, best known as a member of the Masters and Johnson sexuality research team. Along with William H. Masters, she pioneered research into the nature of human sexual response and the diagnosis and treatment of sexual dysfunctions and disorders from 1957 until the 1990s.\n\nVirginia Johnson was born in Springfield, Missouri, the daughter of Edna (née Evans) and Hershel \"Harry\" Eshelman, a farmer. Her paternal grandparents were members of the LDS Church, and her father had Hessian ancestry. When she was five, her family moved to Palo Alto, California, where her father worked as a groundskeeper for a hospital. The family later returned to Missouri and farming. Virginia enrolled at her hometown's Drury College at age 16, but dropped out and spent four years working in the Missouri state insurance office. She eventually returned to school, studying at the University of Missouri and the Kansas City Conservatory of Music, and during World War II began a music career as a band singer. She sang country music for radio station KWTO in Springfield, where she adopted the stage name Virginia Gibson.\n\nJohnson moved to St. Louis, Missouri, where she became a business writer for the \"St. Louis Daily Record\". Eschewing a singing career, Johnson enrolled at Washington University in St. Louis, intending to earn a degree in sociology but never attaining one.\n\nJohnson met William H. Masters in 1957 when he hired her as a research assistant at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Washington University in St. Louis. Masters trained her in medical terminology, therapy, and research during the years she worked as his assistant. Together they developed polygraph-like instruments that were designed to measure sexual arousal in humans. Using these tools, Masters and Johnson observed and measured about 700 men and women who agreed to engage in sexual activity with other participants or masturbate in Masters' laboratory. By observing these subjects, Johnson helped Masters identify the four stages of sexual response. This came to be known as the human sexual response cycle. The cycle consists of the excitement phase, plateau phase, orgasmic phase, and resolution phase. In 1964, Masters and Johnson established their own independent nonprofit research institution in St. Louis called the Reproductive Biology Research Foundation. The center was renamed the Masters and Johnson Institute in 1978.\n\nIn April 2009, Thomas Maier reported in \"Scientific American\" that Johnson had serious reservations about the Masters and Johnson Institute's program to convert homosexuals into heterosexuals, a program which ran from 1968 to 1977.\n\nBy her early 20s, Johnson had married a Missouri politician; the marriage lasted two days. She then married a much older attorney, whom she also divorced. In 1950, Johnson married bandleader George Johnson, with whom she had a boy and a girl, before divorcing in 1956. In 1971, Johnson married William Masters after he divorced his first wife. They were divorced in 1993, though they continued to collaborate professionally. Johnson died in July 2013 \"of complications from several illnesses\".\n\nMasters, who married again after his divorce from Johnson, died in 2001.\n\nThe American cable network Showtime debuted \"Masters of Sex\", a dramatic television series based on the 2009 biography of the same name, on September 29, 2013. The series stars Lizzy Caplan as Johnson.\n"}
