{"id": "331015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=331015", "title": "African art", "text": "African art\n\nAfrican art describes the modern and historical paintings, sculptures, installations, and other visual culture from native or indigenous Africans and the African continent. The definition may also include the art of the native African, African diasporas, such as African American, Caribbean and other American art. Despite this diversity, there are some unifying artistic themes when considering the totality of the visual culture from the continent of Africa.\n\nMasquerade, metalwork, sculpture, architecture, fiber art, and dance are important art forms across Africa and may be included in the study of African art. The term \"African art\" does not usually include the art of the North African areas along the Mediterranean coast, as such areas had long been part of different traditions. For more than a millennium, the art of such areas had formed part of Islamic art, although with many particular characteristics. The art of Ethiopia, with a long Christian tradition, is also different from that of most of Africa, where traditional African religion (with Islam in the north) was dominant until relatively recently. African art includes ancient art, Muslim art of North and West Africa, the Christian art of East Africa, and the ritualistic art of these and other regions. Most African sculpture was historically in wood and other natural materials that have not survived from earlier than, at most, a few centuries ago; older pottery figures can be found from a number of areas. Masks are important elements in the art of many peoples, along with human figures, often highly stylized. There is a vast variety of styles, often varying within the same context of origin depending on the use of the object, but wide regional trends are apparent; sculpture is most common among \"groups of settled cultivators in the areas drained by the Niger and Congo rivers\" in West Africa. Direct images of deities are relatively infrequent, but masks in particular are or were often made for religious ceremonies; today many are made for tourists as \"airport art\". Since the late 19th century there has been an increasing amount of African art in Western collections, the finest pieces of which are now prominently displayed.\n\nAfrican mask art has had an important influence on European Modernist art, which was inspired by their lack of concern for naturalistic depiction.\n\nWest African cultures developed bronze casting for reliefs, like the famous Benin Bronzes, to decorate palaces and for highly naturalistic royal heads from around the Bini town of Benin City, Edo State, in terracotta as well as metal, from the 12th–14th centuries. Akan goldweights are a form of small metal sculptures produced over the period 1400–1900; some apparently represent proverbs, contributing a narrative element rare in African sculpture; and royal regalia included impressive gold sculptured elements. Many West African figures are used in religious rituals and are often coated with materials placed on them for ceremonial offerings. The Mande-speaking peoples of the same region make pieces from wood with broad, flat surfaces and arms and legs shaped like cylinders. In Central Africa, however, the main distinguishing characteristics include heart-shaped faces that are curved inward and display patterns of circles and dots.\n\nEast Africans are known for Tinga Tinga paintings and Makonde sculptures. There is also tradition of producing textile art, . The culture from Great Zimbabwe left more impressive buildings than sculpture, but the eight soapstone Zimbabwe Birds appear to have had a special significance and were presumably mounted on monoliths. Modern Zimbabwean sculptors in soapstone have achieved considerable international success. Southern Africa's oldest known clay figures date from 400 to 600 AD and have cylindrical heads with a mixture of human and animal features.\n\n\nThe study of African art until recently focused on the traditional art of certain well-known groups on the continent, with a particular emphasis on traditional sculpture, masks and other visual culture from non-Islamic West Africa, Central Africa, and Southern Africa with a particular emphasis on the 19th and 20th centuries. Recently, however, there has been a movement among African art historians and other scholars to include the visual culture of other regions and time periods. The notion is that by including all African cultures and their visual culture over time in \"African art\", there will be a greater understanding of the continent's visual aesthetics across time. Finally, the arts of the people of the African diaspora, in Brazil, the Caribbean and the southeastern United States, have also begun to be included in the study of African art.\n\nAfrican art takes many forms and is made from many different materials. Most African artworks are wood sculptures, probably because wood is a very widespread material. Jewellery is a popular art form and is used to indicate rank, affiliation with a group, or purely for aesthetics. African jewelry is made from such diverse materials as Tiger's eye stone, haematite, sisal, coconut shell, beads and ebony wood. Sculptures can be wooden, ceramic or carved out of stone like the famous Shona sculptures, and decorated or sculpted pottery comes from many regions. Various forms of textiles are made including chitenge, mud cloth and kente cloth. Mosaics made of butterfly wings or colored sand are popular in west Africa.\n\nThe Traditional African religions had been influential in African art. The very nature of African art stem from their themes of religious symbolism, functionalism and utilitarianism. In the various Traditional African beliefs, Africans draw from their artistic traditions as sources of inspiration. \"These images have religio-metaphysical themes, which serve as the focal point of power, which links the African’s physical world to his beliefs on his essence and existence. Indeed the African art reflect images of ancestral spirits, and pantheons of indigenous gods and goddesses.\"\n\nThe origins of African art lie long before recorded history. African rock art in the Sahara in Niger preserves 6000-year-old carvings. Along with sub-Saharan Africa, the western cultural arts, ancient Egyptian paintings and artifacts, and indigenous southern crafts also contributed greatly to African art. Often depicting the abundance of surrounding nature, the art was often abstract interpretations of animals, plant life, or natural designs and shapes. The Nubian Kingdom of Kush in modern Sudan was in close and often hostile contact with Egypt, and produced monumental sculpture mostly derivative of styles that did not lead to the north. In West Africa, the earliest known sculptures are from the Nok culture which thrived between 500 BC and 500 AD in modern Nigeria, with clay figures typically with elongated bodies and angular shapes.\n\nMore complex methods of producing art were developed in sub-Saharan Africa around the 10th century, some of the most notable advancements include the bronzework of Igbo Ukwu and the terracottas and metalworks of Ile Ife Bronze and brass castings, often ornamented with ivory and precious stones, became highly prestigious in much of West Africa, sometimes being limited to the work of court artisans and identified with royalty, as with the Benin Bronzes.\n\nDuring and after the 19th and 20th century colonial period, Westerners long characterized African art as \"primitive.\" The term carries with it negative connotations of underdevelopment and poverty. Colonization during the nineteenth century set up a Western understanding hinged on the belief that African art lacked technical ability due to its low socioeconomic status.\n\nAt the start of the twentieth century, art historians like Carl Einstein, Michał Sobeski and Leo Frobenius published important works about the thematic, giving to African art the status of aesthetic object, not only of ethnographic object. At the same time, artists like Paul Gauguin, Pablo Picasso, Georges Braque, André Derain, Henri Matisse, Joseph Csaky, and Amedeo Modigliani became aware of, and inspired by, African art, amongst other art forms. In a situation where the established avant-garde was straining against the constraints imposed by serving the world of appearances, African art demonstrated the power of supremely well-organized forms; produced not only by responding to the faculty of sight, but also and often primarily, the faculty of imagination, emotion and mystical and religious experience. These artists saw in African art a formal perfection and sophistication unified with phenomenal expressive power. The study of and response to African art, by artists at the beginning of the twentieth century facilitated an explosion of interest in the abstraction, organisation and reorganisation of forms, and the exploration of emotional and psychological areas hitherto unseen in Western art. By these means, the status of visual art was changed. Art ceased to be merely and primarily aesthetic, but became also a true medium for philosophic and intellectual discourse, and hence more truly and profoundly aesthetic than ever before.\n\nEuropean architecture was strongly influenced by African art. Pioneers like Antonio Sant'Elia, Le Corbusier, Pier Luigi Nervi, Theo van Doesburg and Erich Mendelsohn were also sculptors and painters. During the 1950s, European architects transformed buildings into big-scale sculptures, replacing unnecessary decoration (so criticized by Adolf Loos), by integrating textured murals and large bas-reliefs in walls. During the 1960s, African art influenced Brutalism, both in language and symbolism, particularly in the late Le Corbusier, Oscar Niemeyer and Paul Rudolph. The powerful work of John Lautner reminds of artifacts from the Yoruba; the sensual projects of Patricio Pouchulu honour the bare wooden sculptures of the Dogon and Baoulé. Unlike Europe, African art never established boundaries between body art, painting, sculpture and architecture; thanks to this, Western architects can now extend towards different art expressions.\n\nTraditional art describes the most popular and studied forms of African art which are typically found in museum collections.\n\nWooden masks, which might either be of human, animal or mythical creatures, are one of the most commonly found forms of art in western Africa. In their original contexts, ceremonial masks are used for celebrations, initiations, crop harvesting, and war preparation. The masks are worn by a chosen or initiated dancer. During the mask ceremony the dancer goes into deep trance, and during this state of mind he \"communicates\" with his ancestors. The masks can be worn in three different ways: vertically covering the face: as helmets, encasing the entire head, and as crest, resting upon the head, which was commonly covered by material as part of the disguise. African masks often represent a spirit and it is strongly believed that the spirit of the ancestors possesses the wearer. Most African masks are made with wood, and can be decorated with: Ivory, animal hair, plant fibers (such as raffia), pigments (like kaolin), stones, and semi-precious gems also are included in the masks.\n\nStatues, usually of wood or ivory, are often inlaid with cowrie shells, metal studs and nails. Decorative clothing is also commonplace and comprises another large part of African art. Among the most complex of African textiles is the colorful, strip-woven Kente cloth of Ghana. Boldly patterned mudcloth is another well known technique.\n\nAfrica is home to a thriving contemporary art fine art culture. This has been understudied until recently, due to scholars' and art collectors' emphasis on traditional art. Notable modern artists include El Anatsui, Marlene Dumas, William Kentridge, Karel Nel, Kendell Geers, Yinka Shonibare, Zerihun Yetmgeta, Odhiambo Siangla, Elias Jengo, Olu Oguibe, Lubaina Himid, and Bili Bidjocka, Henry Tayali. Art bienniales are held in Dakar, Senegal, and Johannesburg, South Africa. Many contemporary African artists are represented in museum collections, and their art may sell for high prices at art auctions. Despite this, many contemporary African artists tend to have a difficult time finding a market for their work. Many contemporary African arts borrow heavily from traditional predecessors. Ironically, this emphasis on abstraction is seen by Westerners as an imitation of European and American Cubist and totemic artists, such as Pablo Picasso, Amedeo Modigliani and Henri Matisse, who, in the early twentieth century, were heavily influenced by traditional African art. This period was critical to the evolution of Western modernism in visual arts, symbolized by Picasso's breakthrough painting \"Les Demoiselles d'Avignon\".\n\nToday Fathi Hassan is considered a major early representative of contemporary black African art. Contemporary African art was pioneered in the 1950s and 1960s in South Africa by artists like Irma Stern, Cyril Fradan, Walter Battiss and through galleries like the Goodman Gallery in Johannesburg. More recently European galleries like the October Gallery in London and collectors such as Jean Pigozzi, Artur Walther and Gianni Baiocchi in Rome have helped expand the interest in the subject. Numerous exhibitions at the Museum for African Art in New York and the African Pavilion at the 2007 Venice Biennale, which showcased the Sindika Dokolo African Collection of Contemporary Art, have gone a long way to countering many of the myths and prejudices that haunt Contemporary African Art. The appointment of Nigerian Okwui Enwezor as artistic director of Documenta 11 and his African centred vision of art propelled the careers of countless African artists onto the international stage.\n\nA wide range of more-or-less traditional forms of art, or adaptations of traditional style to contemporary taste are made for sale to tourists and others, including so-called \"airport art\". A number of vigorous popular traditions assimilate Western influences into African styles such as the elaborate fantasy coffins in shapes such as airplanes, cars or animals of West African cities, and the banners of clubs.\n\nAnother notable contemporary African artist is Amir Nour who is a Sudanese artist currently residing in Chicago. In the 1960s he created a metal sculpture called \"Grazing at Shendi (1969)\" which consists of geometric shapes that connect with his memory of his homeland. The sculpture resembles grazing sheep in the distance. He valued discovering art within the society of the artist, including culture, tradition, and background. \n\nAkan art is an art form that originated among the Akan people. Akan art is known for vibrant artistic traditions, including textiles, sculpture, Akan goldweights, as well as gold and silver jewelry. The Akan people are known for their strong connection between visual and verbal expressions and a distinctive blending of art and philosophy. Akan culture values gold above all other metals, so the artwork and jewelry made of gold reflects a great deal of value, whether it be made for appearance, artistic expression, or more practical trading purposes.\n\nThe Nok culture is an early Iron Age population whose material remains are named after the Ham village of Nok in Kaduna State of Nigeria, where their famous terracotta sculptures were first discovered in 1928. The Nok Culture appeared in northern Nigeria around 1500 BC and vanished under unknown circumstances around 500 AD, thus having lasted approximately 2,000 years.\n\nThe function of Nok terracotta sculptures remains unknown. For the most part, the terracotta is preserved in the form of scattered fragments. That is why Nok art is best known today only for the heads, both male and female, whose hairstyles are particularly detailed and refined. The statues are in fragments because the discoveries are usually made from alluvial mud, in terrain made by the erosion of water. The terracotta statues found there are hidden, rolled, polished, and broken. Rarely are works of great size conserved intact making them highly valued on the international art market. The terracotta figures are hollow, coil built, nearly life sized human heads and bodies that are depicted with highly stylized features, abundant jewelry, and varied postures.\n\nLittle is known of the original function of the pieces, but theories include ancestor portrayal, grave markers, and charms to prevent crop failure, infertility, and illness. Also, based on the dome-shaped bases found on several figures, they could have been used as finials for the roofs of ancient structures. Margaret Young-Sanchez, Associate Curator of Art of the Americas, Africa, and Oceania in The Cleveland Museum of Art, explains that most Nok ceramics were shaped by hand from coarse-grained clay and subtractively sculpted in a manner that suggests an influence from wood carving. After some drying, the sculptures were covered with slip and burnished to produce a smooth, glossy surface. The figures are hollow, with several openings to facilitate thorough drying and firing. The firing process most likely resembled that used today in Nigeria, in which the pieces are covered with grass, twigs, and leaves and burned for several hours.\n\nAs a result of natural erosion and deposition, Nok terracottas were scattered at various depths throughout the Sahel grasslands, causing difficulty in the dating and classification of the mysterious artifacts. Luckily, two archaeological sites, Samun Dukiya and Taruga, were found containing Nok art that had remained unmoved. Radiocarbon and thermo-luminescence tests narrowed the sculptures’ age down to between 2,000 and 2,500 years ago, making them some of the oldest in Western Africa. Many further dates were retrieved in the course of new archaeological excavations, extending the beginnings of the Nok tradition even further back in time.\n\nBecause of the similarities between the two sites, archaeologist Graham Connah believes that \"Nok artwork represents a style that was adopted by a range of iron-using farming societies of varying cultures, rather than being the diagnostic feature of a particular human group as has often been claimed.\"\n\nBenin art is the art from the Kingdom of Benin or Edo Empire (1440–1897), a pre-colonial African state located in what is now known as the South-South region of Nigeria. The Benin Bronzes are a group of more than a thousand metal plaques and sculptures that decorated the royal palace of the Kingdom of Benin in what is now modern-day Nigeria. Collectively, the objects form the best known examples of Benin art, created from the thirteenth century onwards, by the Edo people, which also included other sculptures in brass or bronze, including some famous portrait heads and smaller pieces.\n\nIn 1897 most of the plaques and other objects were taken by the British during a punitive expedition to the area as imperial control was being consolidated in Southern Nigeria. Two hundred of the pieces were taken to the British Museum, London, while the rest were purchased by other European museums. Today, a large number are held by the British Museum. Other notable collections are in Germany and the United States.\n\nThe Igbo produce a wide variety of art including traditional figures, masks, artifacts and textiles, plus works in metals such as bronze. Artworks form the Igbo have been found from as early as 9th century with the bronze artifacts found at Igbo Ukwu. Their masks are similar with the Fang ones, being white and black in about same parts.\n\nYoruba art is best known for the heads from Ife, made of ceramic, brass and other materials. Much of their art is associated with the royal courts. They also produced elaborate masks and doors, full of details and painted in bright colors, such as blue, yellow, red and white.\n\nThe primary ethnic groups in Mali are the Bambara (also known as Bamana) and the Dogon. Smaller ethnic groups consist of the Marka, and the Bozo fisherman of the Niger River. Ancient civilizations flourished in areas like Djene and Timbuktu, where a great variety of ancient bronze and terra-cotta figures have been unearthed.\n\nDjenné-Djenno is famous for its figurines which depict humans and animals including snakes and horses. They are made of terracotta, a material that has been used in West Africa for some ten thousand years.\n\nThe Bambara people () adapted many artistic traditions and began to create display pieces. Before money was the main drive of creation of their artworks they used their abilities solely as a sacred craft for display of spiritual pride, religious beliefs and display of customs. Example artworks include the Bamana n'tomo mask. Other statues were created for people such as hunters and farmers so others could leave offerings after long farming seasons or group hunts. The stylistic variations in Bambara art are extreme sculptures, masks and headdresses display either stylized or realistic features, and either weathered or encrusted patinas. Until quite recently, the function of Bambara pieces was shrouded in mystery, but in the last twenty years field studies have revealed that certain types of figures and headdresses were associated with a number of the societies that structure Bambara life. During the 1970s a group of approximately twenty figures, masks and TjiWara headdresses belonging to the so-called 'Segou style' were identified. The style is distinct and recognizable by its typical flat faces, arrow-shaped noses, all-over body triangular scarifications and, on the figures, splayed hands.\n\nThere are three major and one minor type of Bambara mask. The first type, used by the N'tomo society, has a typical comb-like structure above the face, is worn during dances and may be covered with cowrie shells. The second type of mask, associated with the Komo society, has a spherical head with two antelope horns on the top and an enlarged, flattened mouth. They are used during dances, but some have a thick encrusted patina acquired during other ceremonies in which libations are poured over them.\n\nThe third type has connections with the Nama society and is carved in the form of an articulated bird's head, while the fourth, minor type, represents a stylized animal head and is used by the Kore society. Other Bambara masks are known to exist, but unlike those described above, they cannot be linked to specific societies or ceremonies. Bambara carvers have established a reputation for the zoomorphic headdresses worn by Tji-Wara society members. Although they are all different, they all display a highly abstract body, often incorporating a zig-zag motif, which represents the sun's course from east to west, and a head with two large horns. Bambara members of the Tji-Wara society wear the headdress while dancing in their fields at sowing time, hoping to increase the crop yield.\n\nBambara statuettes are primarily used during the annual ceremonies of the Guan society. During these ceremonies, a group of up to seven figures, measuring from 80 to 130 cm in height, are removed from their sanctuaries by the elder members of the society. The sculptures are washed, re-oiled and sacrifices are offered to them at their shrines. These figures – some of which date from between the 14th and 16th centuries – usually display a typical crested coiffure, often adorned with a talisman.\n\nTwo of these figures were ascribed great significance: a seated or standing maternity figure called Guandousou – known in the West as 'Bambara Queen' – and a male figure called Guantigui, who usually appears holding a knife. The two figures were surrounded by Guannyeni attendant figures standing or seated in various positions, holding a vessel, or a musical instrument, or their breasts. During the 1970s, numerous fakes from Bamako which were based on these sculptures entered the market. They were produced in Bamako.\n\nOther Bambara figures, called Dyonyeni, are thought to be associated with either the southern Dyo society or the Kwore society. These female or hermaphrodite figures usually appear with geometric features such as large conical breasts and measure between 40 and 85 cm in height. The blacksmith members of the Dyo society used them during dances to celebrate the end of their initiation ceremonies. They were handled, held by dancers and placed in the middle of the ceremonial circle.\n\nAmong the corpus of Bambara figures, Boh sculptures are perhaps the best known. These statues represent a highly stylized animal or human figure, and are made of wood which is repeatedly covered in thick layers of earth impregnated with sacrificial materials such as millet, chicken or goat blood, kola nuts and alcoholic drinks. They were employed by the Kono and the Komo societies and served as receptacles for spiritual forces, and could in turn be used for apotropaic purposes.\n\nEach special creative trait a person obtained was seen as a different way to please higher spirits.\n\nDogon art is primarily sculpture. Dogon art revolves around religious values, ideals, and freedoms (Laude, 19). Dogon sculptures are not made to be seen publicly, and are commonly hidden from the public eye within the houses of families, sanctuaries, or kept with the Hogon (Laude, 20). The importance of secrecy is due to the symbolic meaning behind the pieces and the process by which they are made.\n\nThemes found throughout Dogon sculpture consist of figures with raised arms, superimposed bearded figures, horsemen, stools with caryatids, women with children, figures covering their faces, women grinding pearl millet, women bearing vessels on their heads, donkeys bearing cups, musicians, dogs, quadruped-shaped troughs or benches, figures bending from the waist, mirror-images, aproned figures, and standing figures (Laude, 46–52). Signs of other contacts and origins are evident in Dogon art. The Dogon people were not the first inhabitants of the cliffs of Bandiagara. Influence from Tellem art is evident in Dogon art because of its rectilinear designs (Laude, 24).\n\nDogon art is extremely versatile, although common stylistic characteristics – such as a tendency towards stylization – are apparent on the statues. Their art deals with the myths whose complex ensemble regulates the life of the individual. The sculptures are preserved in innumerable sites of worship, personal or family altars, altars for rain, altars to protect hunters, in market. As a general characterization of Dogon statues, one could say that they render the human body in a simplified way, reducing it to its essentials. Some are extremely elongated with emphasis on geometric forms. The subjective impression is one of immobility with a mysterious sense of a solemn gravity and serene majesty, although conveying at the same time a latent movement. Dogon sculpture recreates the hermaphroditic silhouettes of the Tellem, featuring raised arms and a thick patina made of blood and millet beer. The four Nommo couples, the mythical ancestors born of the god Amma, ornament stools, pillars or men's meeting houses, door locks, and granary doors. The primordial couple is represented sitting on a stool, the base of which depicts the earth while the upper surface represents the sky; the two are interconnected by the Nommo. The seated female figures, their hands on their abdomen, are linked to the fertility cult, incarnating the first ancestor who died in childbirth, and are the object of offerings of food and sacrifices by women who are expecting a child.\n\nKneeling statues of protective spirits are placed at the head of the dead to absorb their spiritual strength and to be their intermediaries with the world of the dead, into which they accompany the deceased before once again being placed on the shrines of the ancestors. Horsemen are remainders of the fact that, according to myth, the horse was the first animal present on earth. The Dogon style has evolved into a kind of cubism: ovoid head, squared shoulders, tapered extremities, pointed breasts, forearms, and thighs on a parallel plane, hairdos stylized by three or four incised lines. Dogon sculptures serve as a physical medium in initiations and as an explanation of the world. They serve to transmit an understanding to the initiated, who will decipher the statue according to the level of their knowledge. Carved animal figures, such as dogs and ostriches, are placed on village foundation altars to commemorate sacrificed animals, while granary doors, stools and house posts are also adorned with figures and symbols.\n\nThere are nearly eighty styles of masks, but their basic characteristic is great boldness in the use of geometric shapes, independent of the various animals they are supposed to represent. The structure of a large number of masks is based on the interplay of vertical and horizontal lines and shapes. Another large group has triangular, conic shapes. All masks have large geometric eyes and stylized features. The masks are often polychrome, but on many the color is lost; after the ceremonies they were left on the ground and quickly deteriorated because of termites and other conditions. The Dogon continue an ancient masquerading tradition, which commemorates the origin of death. According to their myths, death came into the world as a result of primeval man's transgressions against the divine order. Dama memorial ceremonies are held to accompany the dead into the ancestral realm and restore order to the universe. The performance of masqueraders – sometimes as many as 400 – at these ceremonies is considered absolutely necessary. In the case of the dama, the timing, types of masks involved, and other ritual elements are often specific to one or two villages and may not resemble those seen in locations only several kilometres distant. The masks also appear during baga-bundo rites performed by small numbers of masqueraders before the burial of a male Dogon. Dogon masks evoke the form of animals associated with their mythology, yet their significance is only understood by the highest ranking cult members whose role is to explain the meaning of each mask to a captivated audience.\n\nBurkina Faso is a small, landlocked country north of Ghana and south of Mali and Niger. Economically, it is one of the four or five poorest countries in the world. Culturally, it is extremely rich. In part this is because so few people from Burkina have become Muslim or Christian. Many of the ancient artistic traditions for which Africa is so well known have been preserved in Burkina Faso because so many people continue to honor the ancestral spirits, and the spirits of nature. In great part they honor the spirits through the use of masks and carved figures. Many of the countries to the north of Burkina Faso had become predominantly Muslim, while many of the countries to the south of Burkina Faso are heavily Christian. In contrast many of the people of Burkina Faso continue to offer prayers and sacrifices to the spirits of nature and to the spirits of their ancestors. The result is that they continue to use the sorts of art that we see in museums in Europe and America.\n\nOne of the principal obstacles to understanding the art of Burkina Faso, including that of the Bwa,  has been a confusion between the styles of the Bwa, \"gurunsi\", and Mossi,  and a confusion of the Bwa people  with their neighbors to the west the Bobo people.  This confusion was the result of the use by French colonial officers of Jula  interpreters at the turn of the century.  these interpreters considered the two peoples to be the same and so referred to the Bobo as \"Bobo-Fing\" and to the Bwa as \"Bobo-Oule.\"   In fact these two peoples are not related at all. Their languages are quite different, their social systems are quite different,  and certainly their art is quite different. In terms of artistic styles the confusion stems from the fact that the Bwa, \"gurunsi'\" and Mossi  make masks that are covered with red white and black geometric graphic patterns.  This is simply the style of the Voltaic or Gur peoples,  and also includes the Dogon and other peoples who speak Voltaic languages.\n\nThe Fang people make masks and basketry, carvings, and sculptures. Fang art is characterized by organized clarity and distinct lines and shapes. Bieri, boxes to hold the remains of ancestors, are carved with protective figures. Masks are worn in ceremonies and for hunting. The faces are painted white with black features. Myene art centers around Myene rituals for death. Female ancestors are represented by white painted masks worn by the male relatives. The Bekota use brass and copper to cover their carvings. They use baskets to hold ancestral remains. Tourism is rare in Gabon, and unlike in other African countries, art is not spurred on by commerce.\n\nThe Baoulé, the Senoufo and the Dan peoples are skilled at carving wood and each culture produces wooden masks in wide variety. The Ivorian people use masks to represent animals in caricature to depict deities, or to represent the souls of the departed.\n\nAs the masks are held to be of great spiritual power, it is considered a taboo for anyone other than specially trained persons or chosen ones to wear or possess certain masks. These ceremonial masks are each thought to have a soul, or life force, and wearing these masks is thought to transform the wearer into the entity the mask represents.\n\nIvory Coast also has modern painters and illustrators. Gilbert G. Groud criticizes the ancient beliefs in black magic, as held with the spiritual masks mentioned above, in his illustrated book \"Magie Noire\".\n\nKenyan art has changed much in the post colonial years. Painters emerged in the 1950s after training in Makerere University College; they include such artists as Elimo Njau Elizabeth Karuga and Asaph Ngethe Macua. The 1970s saw the self-taught African painters mostly inspired by the demand for original African paintings. These include the Ancient Soi, and Moses Gichuiri. Kenyatta University also produced artists but more so taught in western art styles of painting. Among these include John Dianga and Moses Gichuiri. Others include the late Dr. Sylvester Maina, Stephen Mayienga and others.\nThe 1980s produced many contemporary artists. From Teachers Training colleges came Stephen Mbatia, Rix Butama, Shake Makelele, and Meube to name but a few. From the University of Nairobi School of Fine Art and Design came the following artists: Bulinya Martins and Sarah Shiundu. The two by virtue of having learned many basic techniques in design are highly innovative both in style, use of color and execution. Unlike most contemporary Kenyan artist they paint using oils, acrylics and watercolors and/or combination.\nPure abstract art is rare in Kenya. Most artists paint semi-abstract with distorted human figures. The initial paintings by Bulinya Martins were a combination of cubism and original African abstractions. The late Mainga's abstractions were 2D and highly embellished on leather. As for material, the use of Acrylics and oil is more frequent than watercolors. Oil paint is by far the preferred medium today and it lasts much longer.\nThe art items in Kenya include sisal baskets, elephant hair bracelets, Maasai bead jewelry, musical instruments, silver and gold jewelry, soapstone sculptures, wooden carvings, tribal masks, Maasai figurines, paintings, prints and sculptures. These art items are available in the arts and craft markets and shops throughout the main tourist centers of Kenya.\n\nCloth in Kenya also represents interesting art, with batik cloth, kangas (women's wraparound skirts) with patterns and even Kenyan proverbs printed on them and kikois (type of sarong for men) that come in many different colors and textiles. Kenya offers African jewelry containing cowry shells, and soapstone carvings from Western Kenya, carved by the Gusii and Abagusii ethnic groups in Kisii stone.\n\nThe Eskenazi Museum of Art at Indiana University has a large collection of traditional art objects from Kenya including jewelry, containers, weapons, walking sticks, headrests, stools, utensils, and other objects available online.\n\nEthiopian art from the 4th century until the 20th can be divided into two broad groupings. First comes a distinctive tradition of Christian art, mostly for churches, in forms including painting, crosses, icons, illuminated manuscripts, and other metalwork such as crowns. Secondly there are popular arts and crafts such as textiles, basketry and jewellery, in which Ethiopian traditions are closer to those of other peoples in the region. Its history goes back almost three thousand years to the kingdom of D'mt. The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church has been the predominant religion in Ethiopia for over 1500 years, for most of this period in a very close relation, or union, with the Coptic Christianity of Egypt, so that Coptic art has been the main formative influence on Ethiopian church art.\nPrehistoric rock art comparable to that of other African sites survives in a number of places, and until the arrival of Christianity stone stelae, often carved with simple reliefs, were erected as grave-markers and for other purposes in many regions; Tiya is one important site. The \"pre-Axumite\" Iron Age culture of about the 5th century BCE to the 1st century CE was influenced by the Kingdom of Kush to the north, and settlers from Arabia, and produced cities with simple temples in stone, such as the ruined one at Yeha, which is impressive for its date in the 4th or 5th century BCE.\n\nThe powerful Kingdom of Aksum emerged in the 1st century BCE and dominated Ethiopia until the 10th century, having become very largely Christian from the 4th century. Although some buildings and large, pre-Christian stelae exist, there appears to be no surviving Ethiopian Christian art from the Axumite period. However the earliest works remaining show a clear continuity with Coptic art of earlier periods. There was considerable destruction of churches and their contents in the 16th century when the country was invaded by Muslim neighbours. The revival of art after this was influenced by Catholic European art in both iconography and elements of style, but retained its Ethiopian character. In the 20th century, Western artists and architects began to be commissioned by the government, and to train local students, and more fully Westernized art was produced alongside continuations of traditional church art.\n\nChurch paintings in Ethiopia were likely produced as far back as the introduction of Christianity in the 4th century AD, although the earliest surviving examples come from the church of Debre Selam Mikael in the Tigray Region, dated to the 11th century AD. However, the 7th-century AD followers of the Islamic prophet Muhammad who fled to Axum in temporary exile mentioned that the original Church of Our Lady Mary of Zion was decorated with paintings. Other early paintings include those from the rock-hewn churches of Lalibela, dated to the 12th century AD, and in nearby Geneta Maryam, dated to the 13th century AD. However, paintings in illuminated manuscripts predate the earliest surviving church paintings; for instance, the Ethiopian Garima Gospels of the 4th–6th centuries AD contain illuminated scenes imitating the contemporary Byzantine style.\n\nEthiopian painting, on walls, in books, and in icons, is highly distinctive, though the style and iconography are closely related to the simplified Coptic version of Late Antique and Byzantine Christian art. From the 16th century, Roman Catholic church art and European art in general began to exert some influence. However, Ethiopian art is highly conservative and retained much of its distinct character until modern times. The production of illuminated manuscripts for use continued up to the present day.\n\nAnother important form of Ethiopian art, also related to Coptic styles, are crosses made from wood and metal. They are usually copper alloy or brass, plated (at least originally) with gold or silver. The heads are typically flat cast plates with elaborate and complex openwork decoration. The cross motif emerges from the decoration, with the whole design often forming a rotated square or circular shape, though the designs are highly varied and inventive. Many incorporate curved motifs rising from the base, which are called the \"arms of Adam\". Except in recent Western-influenced examples, they usually have no \"corpus\", or figure of Christ, and the design often incorporates numerous smaller crosses. Engraved figurative imagery has sometimes been added. Crosses are mostly either processional crosses, with the metal head mounted on a long wooden staff, carried in religious processions and during the liturgy, or hand crosses, with a shorter metal handle in the same casting as the head. Smaller crosses worn as jewellery are also common.\n\nEthiopia has great ethnic and linguistic diversity, and styles in secular traditional crafts vary greatly in different parts of the country. There are a range of traditions in textiles, many with woven geometric decoration, although many types are also usually plain. Ethiopian church practices make a great deal of use of colourful textiles, and the more elaborate types are widely used as church vestments and as hangings, curtains and wrappings in churches, although they have now largely been supplanted by Western fabrics. Examples of both types can be seen in the picture at the top of the article. Icons may normally be veiled with a semi-transparent or opaque cloth; very thin chiffon-type cotton cloth is a speciality of Ethiopia, though usually with no pattern.\n\nColourful basketry with a coiled construction is common in rural Ethiopia. The products have many uses, such as storing grains, seeds and food and being used as tables and bowls. The Muslim city of Harar is well known for its high quality basketry, and many craft products of the Muslim minority relate to wider Islamic decorative traditions.\n\nTinga Tinga art has roots in decorating hut walls in central and south Tanzania. It was first in 1968 when Edward Said Tingatinga started to paint on wooden sheets with enamel colours when Tinga Tinga art became known. The art of the Makonde must be subdivided into different areas. The Makonde are known as master carvers throughout East Africa, and their statuary that can be found being sold in tourist markets and in museums alike. They traditionally carve household objects, figures and masks. Since the 1950s years the socalled Modern Makonde Art has been developed. An essential step was the turning to abstract figures, mostly spirits (Shetani) that play a special role. Makonde are also part of the important contemporary artists of Africa today. An outstanding position is taken by George Lilanga.\n\nThe Kuba Kingdom (also rendered as the Kingdom of the Bakuba, Songora or Bushongo) was a pre-colonial kingdom in Central Africa. The Kuba Kingdom flourished between the 17th and 19th centuries in the region bordered by the Sankuru, Lulua, and Kasai rivers in the south-east of the modern-day Democratic Republic of the Congo. A great deal of the art was created for the courts of chiefs and kings and was profusely decorated, incorporating cowrie shells and animal skins (especially leopard) as symbols of wealth, prestige and power. Masks are also important to the Kuba. They are used both in the rituals of the court and in the initiation of boys into adulthood, as well as at funerals.\n\nThe Kingdom of Luba or Luba Empire (1585–1889) was a pre-colonial Central African state that arose in the marshy grasslands of the Upemba Depression in what is now southern Democratic Republic of Congo. Today, the Luba people or baLuba are an ethno-linguistic group indigenous to the south-central region of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Majority of them live in this country, residing mainly in its Katanga, Kasai, and Maniema provinces.\n\nAs in the Kuba Kingdom, the Luba Kingdom held the arts in high esteem. A carver held relatively high status, which was displayed by an adze (axe) that he carried over his shoulder. Luba art was not very uniform because of the vast territory which the kingdom controlled. However, some characteristics are common. The important role of woman in the creation myths and political society resulted in many objects of prestige being decorated with female figures.\n\nThe Sao civilisation flourished in Middle Africa from circa the sixth century BC to as late as the sixteenth century AD, and lived by the Chari River around Lake Chad in territory that later became part of Cameroon and Chad. Their most important artworks are the terraotta figurines. These figurines represent humans and animals. Other kinds of artifacts show that the Saos were skilled workers in bronze, copper, and iron.\n\nIn the northern part of Botswana, women in the villages of Etsha and Gumare are noted for their skill at crafting baskets from Mokola Palm and local dyes. The baskets are generally woven into three types: large, lidded baskets used for storage large, open baskets for carrying objects on the head or for winnowing threshed grain, and smaller plates for winnowing pounded grain. The artistry of these baskets is being steadily enhanced through color use and improved designs as they are increasingly produced for commercial use.\n\nThe oldest evidence ancient paintings from both Botswana and South Africa. Depictions of hunting, both animal and human figures were made by the San people dating before civilization over 20,000 years old within the Kalahari desert.\n\nKingdom of Mapungubwe (1075–1220) was a pre-colonial state in Southern Africa located at the confluence of the Shashe and Limpopo rivers, south of Great Zimbabwe. The most famous Mapungubwe artwork is a tiny golden rhino, known as the golden rhinoceros of Mapungubwe. In other graves from Mapengubwe were found objects made of iron, gold, copper, ceramic and glass beads.\n\nPersisting for 3,000 years and thirty dynasties, the \"official\" art of Ancient Egypt was centred on the state religion of the time. The art ranged from stone carvings of both massive statues and small statuettes, to wall art that depicted both history and mythology. In 2600 BC the maturity of Egyptian carving reached a peak it did not reach again for another 1,500 years during the reign of Rameses II.\n\nA lot of the art possesses a certain stiffness, with figures poised upright and rigid in a regal fashion. Bodily proportions also appear to be mathematically derived, giving rise to a sense of fantastic perfection in the figures depicted. This most likely was used to reinforce the godliness of the ruling caste.\n\n\n\nModern African art website - Change African Art website\n"}
{"id": "13891473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13891473", "title": "Aloysius Pendergast", "text": "Aloysius Pendergast\n\nAloysius Xingu Leng Pendergast is a fictional character appearing in novels by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child. He first appeared as a supporting character in their first novel, \"Relic\", and in its sequel \"Reliquary\", before assuming the protagonist role in \"The Cabinet of Curiosities\".\n\nPendergast is a special agent with the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). He works out of the New Orleans, Louisiana branch of the FBI, but frequently travels out of state to investigate cases which interest him, often those appearing to be the work of serial killers.\n\nAloysius Xingu Leng Pendergast was born in the early winter of 1960 and raised in New Orleans, Louisiana. Pendergast retains his Southern manners and mellifluous Deep Southern accent. He studied Anthropology at Harvard University (graduating \"summa cum laude\") and received a dual Doctor of Philosophy degree in Classics and Philosophy from Baliol College, part of Oxford University in England .\n\nPendergast once served with the U.S. Special Forces in the elite \"Ghost Company\", a spiritual successor to the \"Blue Light\" detachment (now Delta Force) with Michael Decker and Howard Longstreet, his superiors at the FBI, and Proctor, his bodyguard and chauffeur. The symbol for this company was \"a ghost on a blue field, decorated with a star throwing a thunderbolt at a cat's eye with the number nine as its pupil, symbolizing the nine lives [its] members [...] were alleged to have...\" The motto was \"Fidelitas usque ad mortem\" (Loyalty unto death). Most of his military records are classified and unknown.\n\nA number of years before the series began, Pendergast was married to Helen Esterhazy Pendergast. She was presumed killed in a hunting accident while in Africa (mauled by a lion), but reappears in the so-called Helen Trilogy.\n\nPendergast is generally described as being stoically aloof and eccentric, though his ineffable politeness and unerring intellect imbue him with an irresistible charm or enigmatic sense of danger if the occasion should call for it. Well-learned in many subjects, he converses easily with doctors, scientists, intellectuals, vagabonds, highly specialized masters of specific disciplines, and people of a wide variety of language and culture alike. He is a master of psychological manipulation, disguise, and improvisation.\n\nPendergast appreciates the finer things in life, including expensive cuisine and wines. Food and drink he enjoys include Château Pétrus wine, antipasto, green tea of only the purest and most spiritual kind, gelato, and steak tartare. He has a great distaste for opera. His interests encompass a wide variety of vastly differing walks of life, yet all focus on the enlightenment of the human mind, body, and soul. He spent a year in Tibet studying the deep meditative art of Chongg Ran, taught to him by the monks of the Gsalrig Chongg monastery.\n\nPendergast is polyglot, demonstrating mastery of French, Italian, Latin, Greek, Portuguese and Cantonese, and appears semi-fluent in Mandarin. He also has some knowledge of Japanese.\n\nPendergast is always described as being tall and slender. He is fit, graceful in movement and physically powerful despite his slight frame. His skin is very pale and many people refer to him as \"corpse-like\" or as an \"albino\". He has platinum blond hair and ice-blue eyes that often look grey depending on the lighting. Pendergast religiously dresses in a black, hand-tailored suit made of a special blend of wool made only in the 1950s, thus he is often described as looking like an undertaker.\n\nIn many cases, Pendergast's normal appearance is irrelevant. A master of disguises, he has fooled even close acquaintances on several occasions.\n\nPendergast owns a 1959 Rolls-Royce Silver Wraith (he used to have two but sold one). His chauffeur and personal assistant is a mysterious man named Proctor. All of Pendergast's suits are custom-made in Italy, and his shoes hand-made by John Lobb of London.\n\nPendergast's personal sidearm is usually a customized .45 Caliber Les Baer Government Model M1911 pistol. In \"Relic\" he carried a .45 Colt Anaconda double-action revolver. He owns a Signature Grade Colt 1911 .45ACP tuned by pistolsmith Hilton Yam (now owner of 10-8 Consulting).\n\nPendergast maintains an apartment at The Dakota in New York City, and later inherits an internally renovated Beaux Arts mansion near Harlem from his great-granduncle in \"The Cabinet of Curiosities\". In his apartment there is a fully furnished zen garden where Pendergast likes to take time to meditate before a new challenge.\n\nThough he is a scrupulously scientific man, he wears a talisman or amulet on a chain, that consists of his own modified version of the Pendergast family crest: a lidless eye over two moons, one new and one full, with a phoenix (the original version featured a lion).\n\nPendergast carries a variety of hidden tools, such as lock picks, flashlights of various sizes, test tubes, syringes, and forensic chemicals.\n\n\nOfficially, the Pendergast's family wealth came from pharmaceuticals, and the family became sufficiently old and established in New Orleans to conduct themselves as aristocracy. However, there are hints that the fortune actually came from patent medicine (\"snake oil\"), and that some of the family's customers suffered permanent injury or even death from its effects.\n\nPendergast also confides, to his shame, that a streak of insanity has afflicted his family for generations, such that many of them have been convicted of horrible crimes, and ended their lives in asylums.\n\n\nSpecial Agent Aloysius Pendergast appears in several stand-alone novels and stars in two trilogies. All of these books have been jointly written by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child.\n\n\n\n\n\nOn February 1, 2016, authors Preston and Child confirmed that producer Gale Anne Hurd would be heading a television adaptation of the novels \"Relic\" and \"Cabinet of Curiosities\". The adaptation, simply titled \"Pendergast\", would air on Spike TV. The first season would focus on \"Pendergast investigating a present-day crime mimicking a century-old mystery — that links to his own family's dark past.\"\n\nOn November 8, 2017 Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child posted on their Facebook page that the series, under development at Paramount, was cancelled.\n\n"}
{"id": "19555744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19555744", "title": "Asia (magazine)", "text": "Asia (magazine)\n\nAsia was an American magazine in the 1920s and 1930s that featured reporting about Asia and its people, including the Far East, Southeast Asia, South Asia, and the Middle East. From 1934 to 1946, it was edited by Richard J. Walsh, with extensive contributions from his wife, Pearl S. Buck. Under their influence, the journal published many prominent Asian literary and political figures and American authorities. In 1946, after many years of financial trouble, it was merged into a new journal, \"United Nations World\".\n\n\"Asia\" magazine was established by the American Asiatic Association in 1898 as \"Journal of the American Asiatic Association\". An editorial in the \"Journal\" explained: \"The ignorance of our people in regard to the countries of the Far East is unquestionably a serious obstacle to the legitimate extension of American influence. . In 1917 Willard Straight, who had been involved in promoting American trade and investment in Korea and China since the turn of the century, and his wife, Dorothy Payne Whitney Straight, bought the magazine and renamed it \"Asia\". and continued its publication as a popular journal of commerce and travel. The Straights also were co-founders of \"The New Republic\" magazine.\n\nWhen Willard Straight died of influenza in 1918, his widow took over publication of the magazine. She married Leonard K. Elmhirst in 1925. The editors included Louis D. Froelick and John Foord, and associate editors Gertrude Emerson and Marietta Neff. Elsie Weil, who joined the staff about 1920, was the long time managing editor.Frank H. McIntosh painted many of the covers.\n\nIn January 1934, although ownership remained unchanged, Richard J. Walsh, head of John Day publishers published his first issue as editor. He announced that the magazine would no longer be a tourist handbook, and despite objections from some readers, the magazine was shifted from advertising luxury goods, travel and promotion of American commerce in the Orient to discussion of international affairs and current Asian culture and literature. In the first editorial Walsh promised readers a wide range of topics and views. The magazine's political stance changed as well. Walsh wrote that it would \"look upon Communism as objectively as upon art, and bring to religious concepts as open a mind as we bring to economic problems.\" Walsh soon brought his new wife, Pearl S. Buck into the editorial process. \n\nIn the following years, Asia underwent revolution and war. Walsh, as publisher of John Day, and Buck, as America's most influential writer about Asia, attracted and recruited a new range of Asian and American writers, many of whom promoted an anti-colonial agenda, such as support for Indian independence, and anti-racist program. Subscriptions rose as Americans become more worried about the oncoming Second Sino-Japanese War. Writers included William Ernest Hocking, the Harvard liberal theologian; Hu Shih, leader of China's New Culture Movement; Owen Lattimore, the emerging authority on Central Asia; Lin Yutang; Jawaharlal Nehru, the Indian independence leader; and reporters such as Nathaniel Peffer; Edgar Snow, Nym Wales, and Theodore H. White, who reported from the front line on China before World War II. Buck wrote a regular book review column titled “Asia Book Shelf.” The magazine recruited corresponding editors to gather articles, including Gertrude Emerson Sen in India and H.J. Timperley, an Australian journalist in China.\n\nIn 1941, Walsh and Buck bought the magazine from the Elmhirsts. They changed the name to \"Asia and the Americas\" in November 1942, and Buck assumed the editorship. She continued her attacks on imperialism, particularly British, and offered strong support for colonial independence movements. With the end of the war in 1945, however, Americans lost interest in Asia and the magazine suffered a financial crisis. Buck resigned as editor in 1947 merged the magazine with \"Free World\" and \"Inter-American\" to form a new journal,\"United Nations World\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "70866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70866", "title": "Bombyx mori", "text": "Bombyx mori\n\nThe silkworm is the larva or caterpillar of the domestic silkmoth, Bombyx mori (Latin: \"silkworm of the mulberry tree\"). It is an economically important insect, being a primary producer of silk. A silkworm's preferred food is white mulberry leaves, though they may eat other mulberry species and even osage orange. Domestic silkmoths are closely dependent on humans for reproduction, as a result of millennia of selective breeding. Wild silkmoths are different from their domestic cousins as they have not been selectively bred; they are not as commercially viable in the production of silk.\n\nSericulture, the practice of breeding silkworms for the production of raw silk, has been under way for at least 5,000 years in China, from where it spread to India, Korea, Japan, and the West. The silkworm was domesticated from the wild silkmoth \"Bombyx mandarina\", which has a range from northern India to northern China, Korea, Japan, and the far eastern regions of Russia. The domesticated silkworm derives from Chinese rather than Japanese or Korean stock.\n\nSilkworms were unlikely to have been domestically bred before the Neolithic age. Before then, the tools to manufacture quantities of silk thread had not been developed. The domesticated \"B. mori\" and the wild \"B. mandarina\" can still breed and sometimes produce hybrids.\n\nDomestic silkmoths are very different from most members in the genus \"Bombyx\"; not only have they lost the ability to fly, but their color pigments are also lost.\n\nMulberry silkworms can be categorized into three different but connected groups or types. The major groups of silkworms fall under the univoltine (\"uni-\"=one, \"voltine\"=brood frequency) and bivoltine categories. The univoltine breed is generally linked with the geographical area within greater Europe. The eggs of this type hibernate during winter due to the cold climate, and cross-fertilize only by spring, generating silk only once annually. The second type is called bivoltine and is normally found in China, Japan, and Korea. The breeding process of this type takes place twice annually, a feat made possible through the slightly warmer climates and the resulting two life cycles. The polyvoltine type of mulberry silkworm can only be found in the tropics. The eggs are laid by female moths and hatch within nine to 12 days, so the resulting type can have up to eight separate life cycles throughout the year.\n\nEggs take about 14 days to hatch into larvae, which eat continuously. They have a preference for white mulberry, having an attraction to the mulberry odorant cis-jasmone. They are not monophagous since they can eat other species of \"Morus\", as well as some other Moraceae, mostly Osage orange. They are covered with tiny black hairs. When the color of their heads turns darker, it indicates they are about to molt. After molting, the larval phase of the silkworms emerge white, naked, and with little horns on their backs.\n\nAfter they have molted four times, their bodies become slightly yellow and the skin becomes tighter. The larvae then prepare to enter the pupal phase of their lifecycle, and enclose themselves in a cocoon made up of raw silk produced by the salivary glands. The final molt from larva to pupa takes place within the cocoon, which provides a vital layer of protection during the vulnerable, almost motionless pupal state. Many other Lepidoptera produce cocoons, but only a few—the Bombycidae, in particular the genus \"Bombyx\", and the Saturniidae, in particular the genus \"Antheraea\"—have been exploited for fabric production.\n\nIf the animal is allowed to survive after spinning its cocoon and through the pupal phase of its lifecycle, it releases proteolytic enzymes to make a hole in the cocoon so it can emerge as an adult moth. These enzymes are destructive to the silk and can cause the silk fibers to break down from over a mile in length to segments of random length, which seriously reduces the value of the silk threads, but not silk cocoons used as \"stuffing\" available in China and elsewhere for doonas, jackets etc. To prevent this, silkworm cocoons are boiled. The heat kills the silkworms and the water makes the cocoons easier to unravel. Often, the silkworm itself is eaten.\n\nAs the process of harvesting the silk from the cocoon kills the larva, sericulture has been criticized by animal welfare and rights activists. Mahatma Gandhi was critical of silk production based on the Ahimsa philosophy \"not to hurt any living thing\". This led to Gandhi's promotion of cotton spinning machines, an example of which can be seen at the Gandhi Institute. He also promoted Ahimsa silk, wild silk made from the cocoons of wild and semiwild silkmoths.\n\nThe moth – the adult phase of the lifecycle – is not capable of functional flight, in contrast to the wild \"B. mandarina\" and other \"Bombyx\" species, whose males fly to meet females and for evasion from predators. Some may emerge with the ability to lift off and stay airborne, but sustained flight cannot be achieved. This is because their bodies are too big and heavy for their small wings. However, some silkmoths can still fly. Silkmoths have a wingspan of and a white, hairy body. Females are about two to three times bulkier than males (for they are carrying many eggs), but are similarly colored. Adult Bombycidae have reduced mouth parts and do not feed, though a human caretaker can feed them.\n\nThe cocoon is made of a thread of raw silk from 300 to about 900 m (1,000 to 3,000 ft) long. The fibers are very fine and lustrous, about 10 μm (0.0004 in) in diameter. About 2,000 to 3,000 cocoons are required to make a pound of silk (0.4 kg). At least 70 million pounds of raw silk are produced each year, requiring nearly 10 billion cocoons.\n\nDue to its small size and ease of culture, the silkworm has become a model organism in the study of lepidopteran and arthropod biology. Fundamental findings on pheromones, hormones, brain structures, and physiology have been made with the silkworm. One example of this was the molecular identification of the first known pheromone, bombykol, which required extracts from 500,000 individuals, due to the very small quantities of pheromone produced by any individual worm.\n\nCurrently, research is focusing on genetics of silkworms and the possibility of genetic engineering. Many hundreds of strains are maintained, and over 400 Mendelian mutations have been described. Another source suggests 1,000 inbred domesticated strains are kept worldwide. One useful development for the silk industry is silkworms that can feed on food other than mulberry leaves, including an artificial diet. Research on the genome also raises the possibility of genetically engineering silkworms to produce proteins, including pharmacological drugs, in the place of silk proteins. \"Bombyx mori\" females are also one of the few organisms with homologous chromosomes held together only by the synaptonemal complex (and not crossovers) during meiosis.\n\nKraig Biocraft Laboratories\nhas used research from the Universities of Wyoming and Notre Dame in a collaborative effort to create a silkworm that is genetically altered to produce spider silk. In September 2010, the effort was announced as successful.\n\nResearchers at Tufts developed scaffolds made of spongy silk that feel and look similar to human tissue. They are implanted during reconstructive surgery to support or restructure damaged ligaments, tendons, and other tissue. They also created implants made of silk and drug compounds which can be implanted under the skin for steady and gradual time release of medications.\n\nResearchers at the MIT Media Lab experimented with silkworms to see what they would weave when left on surfaces with different curvatures. They found that on particularly straight webs of lines, the worms would connect neighboring lines with silk, weaving directly onto the given shape. Using this knowledge they built a silk pavilion with 6,500 silkworms over a number of days.\n\nSilkworms have been used in antibiotics discovery as they have several advantageous traits compared to other invertebrate models. Antibiotics such as lysocin E, a non-ribosomal peptide synthesized by Lysobacter sp. RH2180-5 and GPI0363 are among the notable antibiotics discovered using silkworms.\n\nThe domesticated form, compared to the wild form, has increased cocoon size, body size, growth rate, and efficiency of its digestion. It has gained tolerance to human presence and handling, and also to living in crowded conditions. The domesticated moth cannot fly, so it needs human assistance in finding a mate, and it lacks fear of potential predators. The native color pigments are also lost, so the domesticated moths are leucistic since camouflage isn't useful when they only live in captivity. These changes have made the domesticated strains entirely dependent upon humans for survival. The eggs are kept in incubators to aid in their hatching.\n\nSilkworms were first domesticated in China over 5,000 years ago. Since then, the silk production capacity of the species has increased nearly tenfold. The silkworm is one of the few organisms wherein the principles of genetics and breeding were applied to harvest maximum output . It is second only to maize in exploiting the principles of heterosis and cross breeding.\n\nSilkworm breeding is aimed at the overall improvement of silkworm from a commercial point of view. The major objectives are improving fecundity (the egg-laying capacity of a breed), the health of larvae, quantity of cocoon and silk production, and disease resistance. Healthy larvae lead to a healthy cocoon crop. Health is dependent on factors such as better pupation rate, fewer dead larvae in the mountage, shorter larval duration (shorter larval duration lessens the chance of infection) and bluish-tinged fifth-instar larvae (which are healthier than the reddish-brown ones). Quantity of cocoon and silk produced are directly related to the pupation rate and larval weight. Healthier larvae have greater pupation rates and cocoon weights. Quality of cocoon and silk depends on a number of factors including genetics.\n\nIn the US, teachers may sometimes introduce the insect life cycle to their students by raising silkworms in the classroom as a science project. Students have a chance to observe complete life cycles of insect from egg stage to larvae, pupa, moth. \n\nThe silkworm has been raised as a hobby in countries such as China, South Africa, Zimbabwe, and Iran. Children often pass on the eggs, creating a non-commercial population. The experience provides children with the opportunity to witness the life cycle of silkworms. The practice of raising silkworms by children as pets has, in non-silk farming South Africa, led to the development of extremely hardy landraces of silkworms, because they are invariably subjected to hardships not encountered by commercially farmed members of the species. However, these worms, not being selectively bred as such, are possibly inferior in silk production and may exhibit other undesirable traits.\n\nThe full genome of the silkworm was published in 2008 by the International Silkworm Genome Consortium. Draft sequences were published in 2004.\n\nThe genome of the silkworm is mid-range with a genome size around 432 megabase pairs.\n\nHigh genetic variability has been found in domestic lines of silkworms, though this is less than that among wild silkmoths (about 83 percent of wild genetic variation). This suggests a single event of domestication, and that it happened over a short period of time, with a large number of wild worms having been collected for domestication. Major questions, however, remain unanswered: \"Whether this event was in a single location or in a short period of time in several locations cannot be deciphered from the data\". Research also has yet to identify the area in China where domestication arose.\n\nSilkworm pupae are eaten in some cultures.\n\n\nIn China, a legend indicates the discovery of the silkworm's silk was by an ancient empress Lei Zu, the wife of the Yellow Emperor and the daughter of XiLing-Shi. She was drinking tea under a tree when a silk cocoon fell into her tea. As she picked it out and started to wrap the silk thread around her finger, she slowly felt a warm sensation. When the silk ran out, she saw a small larva. In an instant, she realized this caterpillar larva was the source of the silk. She taught this to the people and it became widespread. Many more legends about the silkworm are told.\n\nThe Chinese guarded their knowledge of silk, but, according to one story, a Chinese princess given in marriage to a Khotan prince brought to the oasis the secret of silk manufacture, \"hiding silkworms in her hair as part of her dowry\", probably in the first half of the first century AD. About AD 550, Christian monks are said to have smuggled silkworms, in a hollow stick, out of China and sold the secret to the Byzantine Empire.\n\n\nIn traditional Chinese medicine, silkworm is the source of the \"stiff silkworm\", which is made from dried fourth- or fifth-instar larvae which have died of \"white muscardine disease\", the \"Beauveria bassiana\" fungal infection mentioned above. It is believed to dispel flatulence, dissolve phlegm, and relieve spasms.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35671399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35671399", "title": "Brenda Dixon Gottschild", "text": "Brenda Dixon Gottschild\n\nBrenda Dixon Gottschild is an American cultural historian, performer, choreographer, and anti-racist cultural worker. She has used her background as a dance performer and as a professor of dance to create works that bring racism, gender, and societal questions to the forefront of discussions. Her choreographic work is often in collaboration with her husband, Hellmut Gottschild, who is also a dancer/choreographer. She publishes literary works and giving lectures in which she uses her own dancing body as a crucial part of her presentations.\n\nGottschild spent the early years of her career performing dance. From 1964 to 1966, she was a member of the Mary Anthony Dance Theater. Later, she became an independent choreographer, teacher, and performer. Gottschild has worked in New York, Stockholm, Helsinki, and London from 1966 to 1968. From 1968 to 1971, she was a member of the Open Theater (directed by Joseph Chaikin) and the Frank Silvera Writers’ Workshop. She was a student at the Performance Studies Department of New York University and earned her Ph.D. in 1981. Today, she uses her body and lecture as an instrument with which she demonstrates performance and kinesthetic principles.\n\nShe is a Professor Emerita of dance studies at Temple University and is collaborating with Joan Myers Brown in writing a book and giving lectures about the Philadelphia Dance Company. Gottschild performs with her husband Hellmut Gottschild in a form of somatic and research-based collaboration they have dubbed “movement theater discourse.” Additionally, she is the Philadelphia correspondent for \"Dance Magazine\".\n\nGottschild's first solo book, \"Digging the Africanist Presence in American Performance: Dance and Other Contexts\", was the culmination of a circuitous journey in interdisciplinary research that began with the question, “What makes George Balanchine’s ballets different from European ballet?” She originated and continue to investigate a line of thought that had been ignored in previous socio-cultural and performance studies—namely, the Africanist presence in Europeanist concert dance culture.\n\nHer second book, \"Waltzing in the Dark: African American Vaudeville and Race Politics in the Swing Era\", focuses on the social, racial, and artistic climate for African American performers from the late 1920s through the 1940s. For this work she received the 2001 CORD (Congress on Research in Dance) Award for Outstanding Scholarly Dance Publication.\nGottschild regards her third book, \"The Black Dancing Body – A Geography From Coon to Cool\", as her third installment in her ongoing quest to bring to the fore the African American quotient in the American cultural equation. It is a map of American history as told through the “topography” of the black dancing body. The chapters are named for body parts or expressive attributes: feet, buttocks, skin, hair/face, and soul/spirit. An introduction preceding these sections wrestles with the question, “What is black dance?”\n\nHer book \"Joan Myers Brown & The Audacious Hope of the Black Ballerina: A Biohistory of American Performance\" is about Joan Myers Brown and her legacy.\n\n\n\nMost online articles written by Gottschild are located on the \"Dance Magazine\" website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3615038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3615038", "title": "Centro Cultural de la Raza", "text": "Centro Cultural de la Raza\n\nThe Centro Cultural de la Raza (Spanish for \"Cultural Center of the Race\") is a non-profit organization with the specific mission to create, preserve, promote and educate about Chicano, Mexicano, Native American and Latino art and culture. It is located in Balboa Park in San Diego, California.The cultural center supports and encourages the creative expression “of the indigenous cultures of the Americas.” It is currently a member of the American Alliance of Museums.\n\nThe Centro provides classes and presentations on drama, music, dance, and arts and crafts, many of which have origins in Mexico and \"Aztlán,\" a term used by Chicanos to indicate the American Southwest. Programs include Azteca dance, Teatro Chicano, film screenings, exhibits, musical performances, installation art, readings, receptions and other events. The Centro's resident Ballet Folklorico company, Ballet Folklorico en Aztlan, also operates a dance academy at the Center. In addition, the Centro is available as a meeting place for community groups and organizations.\n\nThe Centro's circular building has offices, workrooms, studios, and a theater. The performance space seats 150 people and has a 2,000 square foot art gallery. The Centro is one of the first community-based Chicano cultural centers and one of the largest in the Southwest. It is identifiable by a number of murals painted near the building's main entrance.\n\nThe origins of the Centro go back to the mid 1960s. Social protests, such as anti-Vietnam war demonstrations and work of activists like Dolores Huerta and Cesar Chavez leading with the United Farm Workers had given rise to grass-roots community movements in San Diego. Those involved with social protest saw that there would also be a need for a community center that was run by Chicanos and for Chicanos. At the San Diego State University, the Mexican American Youth Association (MAYA) was formed to recruit Chicano students to the university and make sure that they were able to complete their studies. This group, along with the Mexican American Liberation Art Front (MALAF) both recognized the need for a cultural center. In addition, MALAF also noticed that there were few places for Chicanos to exhibit their art. Alurista, a poet, and artists Guillermo Aranda and Salvador Roberto Torres, were all involved with MAYA, later to become M.E.C.H.A. and were very active in working towards both a cultural space as well as a space to create and show art. In 1968, the San Diego Parks and Recreation Department gave Torres permission to use the abandoned Ford Building in Balboa Park as a studio space for 6 months.\n\nTorres invited other visual artists and eventually the Ballet Foklorico en Aztlan, a folkloric dance group led by the Enrique family to use the space. Those involved included Alurista, Ochoa and Torres as well as Guillermo Aranda, Ruben de Anda, Leticia de Baca, the Auguilar sisters, Tomas Casteneda, Mario Acevedo Torero, Luis Espinoza, Ricardo Gonzalez and Antonio Rivas. The Ford Building by 1969 was a \"major center of activities for San Diego's Chicano artists.\" Other artists such as Guillermo Rosete and musicians such as the Trio Moreno became involved at this time. They formally named themselves \"Los Toltecas en Aztlán\" in order to be able to create a more solid group identity.\n\nLos Toltecas en Aztlán wrote this as their founding principle: \"The Tolecas en Aztlán shall be constituted of all those Chicano Artists dedicated to Human Truth and Chicano Beauty, which in our belief can only be lived up to through Mutual Self-Respect, Self-Determination in our endeavors, and the Self-Sacrifice of our individual differences for the sake of a Centro Cultural de la Raza where our indigenous ancestral spirit of brotherhood, justice and peace can flourish in contemporary Chicano Art Forms.\" Los Toltecas en Aztlán had forty members by 1970.\n\nPlans were begun to convert the Ford Building into Centro Cultural de la Raza. First, Los Toltecas en Aztlán petitioned the city of San Diego to use the building to create a cultural center. The proposal for the Centro went before city council, to the current mayor, Frank Curran, and to other Chicano organizations and interested individuals in order to gain support. The city of San Diego, however, had begun making plans to turn the Ford Building into an aerospace museum. According to Ochoa, the city and the \"establishment\" were uncomfortable with what the Toltecas were doing in Balboa Park. He says, \"At one time there was 300 cars outside the Ford Building -- all Mexicans. They never saw so many Mexicans in Balboa Park before.\"\n\nAt the same time that Los Toltecas en Aztlán were petitioning the city to create a cultural center, in another part of San Diego where there had once been a vibrant Hispanic barrio, citizens were occupying the former neighborhood and demanding the city turn the space into a park. Torres and other members of Los Toltecas en Aztlán were involved in this protest, calling the area Chicano Park. The Chicano Park protest and other issues became part of a new proposal, citing a great need to create Centro Cultural de la Raza. The new proposal was brought to the city by Alurista, Torres, and Aranda. Despite this, the city attempted to evict the artists from the Ford Building. Los Toltecas en Aztlan refused to leave. In October, the Chicano Federation of San Diego County became involved and helped Los Toltecas en Aztlán express their concerns to the city manager, Walter Hahn. Los Toltecas en Aztlán refused to leave the Ford Building until another site was given them for the center. Eventually the city offered to give them an abandoned water tank that was originally built in 1914. Alurista was largely responsible for the final negotiations which included use of the new facility and a city contribution of $22,000 to the new building. The monetary contribution from the city included improvements to the building such as installing lights, heaters, water and a wood floor for the Ballet Folklorico.\n\nLos Toltecas en Aztlán moved into the new building in May 1971 and worked hard to get the building ready for a grand inauguration on July 11, 1971. The grand opening ceremonies attracted over 500 people and included music, dance and an art exhibition inside the building.\n\nThe first mural \"La Dualidad\" in the new Centro building was created by Aranda and a team of volunteers and was completed in 1984. Outside of the building are murals by Mario Aguilar, Aranda, Barajas, Arturo Roman, Neto del Sol, David Avalos, Antonio de Hermosillo, Samuel Llamas, Antonio Perez and Ochoa.\n\nThe Centro was known internationally as a dynamic cultural center where academics such as Shifra Goldman, Tomas Ybarra Frausto and Chon Noriega could be found conversing with community members as well as artists such as Magu, Luis Valdez, Judy Baca, Sergio Arau, Lalo Guerrero, Jose Montoya, Barbara Carrasco, Gabino Palomares and El Vez. Groups that formed through the work of the Centro include: Ballet Folklórico en Aztlán, founded by Herminia Enrique; Treatro Meztizo and Trio Moreno, a musical group, BAWTAF (The Border Arts Workshop/Taller de Arte Fronterizo). In addition countless artists, musicians, performers, writers, dancers and activists were nurtured at the Centro, including Culture Clash, Gronk, Guillermo Gomez Peña, Lalo Lopez Alcaraz, the Taco Shop Poets, Yareli Arizmendi, James Luna, David Avalos, Dora Areola, Chicano Secret Service, Richard A. Lou, Robert J. Sanchez, and Isaac Artenstein - all of whom have achieved prominence in the arts and culture community.\n\nA seven-year boycott (2000-2007) of the center was carried out by many artists, supporters, community members and even one of the founders, Ochoa. The dispute left the Centro in a \"tenuous state.\" Disagreements with changes made by new administrators of the Centro caused the rift.\n\nAs a cultural center, the Centro not only promotes creative expression in art and formal art classes, but also includes in its busy schedule a variety of workshops in danza folklórica as well as other interpretive dance forms, music, theater, spoken word, drumming and more. In addition, numerous public presentations including exhibitions, concerts, installations, theater, dance, spoken word and multimedia events take place at the Centro.\n\nThe Centro currently operates on a budget of $30,000 a year with no employees and only volunteers working for the organization.\n\nThe Centro Cultural de la Raza Archives from 1970-1999 are housed at the University of California, Santa Barbara (Collection: CEMA 12).\n\n1971-1975 Guillermo \"Yermo\" Aranda\n\n1988-1990 Victor Ochoa\n\n"}
{"id": "22076861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22076861", "title": "Choke pear (plant)", "text": "Choke pear (plant)\n\nA choke pear or chocky-pear is an astringent fruit. The term is used for the fruit of any variety of pear which has an astringent taste and is difficult to swallow.\n\nOne variety of choke pear is poire d'Angoisse, a variety of pear that was grown in Angoisse, a commune in the Arrondissement of Nontron in Dordogne, France, in the Middle Ages, which was hard, bad tasting, and almost impossible to eat raw. In the words of L'Académie française, the pear is \"si âpre et si revèche au goût qu'on a de la peine à l'avaler\" (\"so harsh and crabbed of taste that one can only with difficulty swallow it\"). These qualities, and the common meaning of \"angoisse\" in French language (\"anguish\") apparently originated the French idiom \"avaler des poires d'angoisse\" (\"swallow pears of Angoisse/anguish\") meaning \"to suffer great displeasures\". Possibly because of this idiom, the names \"choke pear\" and \"pear of anguish\" have been used for a gagging device allegedly used in Europe, sometime before the 17th century.\n\nDalechamps has identified this with the species of pear that Pliny the Elder listed as \"ampullaceum\" in his \"Naturalis Historia\". It, like most sour-tasting pear cultivars, was most likely used to make perry.\n\nSimilarly named trees with astringent fruits include the choke cherry (the common name for several species of cherry tree that grow in North America and whose fruits are small and bitter tasting: \"Prunus virginiana\", \"Prunus demissa\", and \"Prunus serotina\") and the choke plum.\n"}
{"id": "11991858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11991858", "title": "Christian tourism", "text": "Christian tourism\n\nChristian tourism is a subcategory of religious tourism which is geared towards Christians. As one of the largest branches of religious tourism, it is estimated that seven percent of the world's Christians—about 168 million people—are \"on the move as pilgrims\" each year.\n\nChristian tourism refers to the entire industry of Christian travel, tourism, and hospitality. In recent years it has grown to include not only Christians embarking individually or in groups on pilgrimages and missionary travel, but also on religion-based cruises, leisure (fellowship) vacations, crusades, rallies, retreats, monastery visits/guest-stays and Christian camps, as well as visiting Christian tourist attractions.\n\nEach year millions of Christians travel on pilgrimage. The most popular pilgrim destination is the Abrahamic Holy Land, or Jerusalem, Israel. Most Christian pilgrimage destinations are based on the Roman Catholic faith, especially shrines devoted to apparitions of the Blessed Virgin Mary such as: Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe in Mexico, Sanctuary of Our Lady of Fatima in Portugal, and Sanctuary of Our Lady of Lourdes in France. There is also interest in pilgrimage to St. Peter's Basilica at the Vatican in Rome, the capital of the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nAlthough no definitive study has been completed on Christian tourism, some segments of the industry have been measured:\n\n"}
{"id": "1678630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1678630", "title": "Christopher Lasch", "text": "Christopher Lasch\n\nChristopher \"Kit\" Lasch (1932–1994) was an American historian, moralist, and social critic who was a history professor at the University of Rochester. Lasch sought to use history as a tool to awaken American society to the pervasiveness with which major institutions, public and private, were eroding the competence and independence of families and communities. He strove to create a historically informed social criticism that could teach Americans how to deal with rampant consumerism, proletarianization, and what he famously labeled the \"culture of narcissism\".\n\nHis books, including \"The New Radicalism in America\" (1965), \"Haven in a Heartless World\" (1977), \"The Culture of Narcissism\" (1979), \"The True and Only Heaven\" (1991), and \"The Revolt of the Elites and the Betrayal of Democracy\" (published posthumously in 1996) were widely discussed and reviewed. \"The Culture of Narcissism\" became a surprise best-seller and won the National Book Award in the category Current Interest (paperback).\n\nLasch was always a critic of modern liberalism and a historian of liberalism's discontents, but over time his political perspective evolved dramatically. In the 1960s, he was a neo-Marxist and acerbic critic of Cold War liberalism. During the 1970s, he supported cultural conservatism with a Marxian critique of capitalism, and drew on Freud-influenced critical theory to diagnose the ongoing deterioration that he perceived in American culture and politics. His writings are sometimes denounced by feminists and hailed by conservatives for his apparent defense of the traditional family.\n\nHe eventually concluded that an often unspoken but pervasive faith in \"Progress\" tended to make Americans resistant to many of his arguments. In his last major works he explored this theme in depth, suggesting that Americans had much to learn from the suppressed and misunderstood populist and artisan movements of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.\n\nBorn on June 1, 1932, in Omaha, Nebraska, Christopher Lasch came from a highly political family rooted in the left. His father, Robert Lasch, was a Rhodes Scholar and journalist; in St. Louis he won a Pulitzer prize for editorials criticizing the Vietnam War. Zora Lasch (née Schaupp), his mother, who held a philosophy doctorate, worked as a social worker and teacher.\n\nLasch was active in the arts and letters early, publishing a neighborhood newspaper while in grade school, and writing the fully orchestrated \"Rumpelstiltskin, Opera in D Major\" at the age of thirteen.\n\nLasch studied at Harvard University, where he roomed with John Updike, and Columbia University, where he worked with William Leuchtenburg. Richard Hofstadter was also a significant influence. He contributed a Foreword to later editions of Hofstadter's \"The American Political Tradition\" and an article on Hofstadter in the \"New York Review of Books\" in 1973. He taught at the University of Iowa and then was a professor of history at the University of Rochester from 1970 until his death from cancer in 1994. Lasch also took a conspicuous public role. Russell Jacoby acknowledged this in writing that \"I do not think any other historian of his generation moved as forcefully into the public arena\". In 1986 he appeared on Channel 4 television in discussion with Michael Ignatieff and Cornelius Castoriadis.\n\nDuring the 1960s, Lasch identified himself as a socialist, but one who found influence not just in the writers of the time such as C. Wright Mills but also in earlier independent voices such as Dwight Macdonald. Lasch became further influenced by writers of the Frankfurt School and the early \"New Left Review\" and felt that \"Marxism seemed indispensable to me\". During the 1970s, however, he became disenchanted with the Left's belief in progress—a theme treated later by his student David Noble—and increasingly identified this belief as the factor which explained the Left's failure to thrive despite the widespread discontent and conflict of the times.\n\nAt this point Lasch began to formulate what would become his signature style of social critique: a syncretic synthesis of Sigmund Freud and the strand of socially conservative thinking that remained deeply suspicious of capitalism and its effects on traditional institutions.\n\nBesides Leuchtenburg, Hofstadter, and Freud, Lasch was especially influenced by Orestes Brownson, Henry George, Lewis Mumford, Jacques Ellul, Reinhold Niebuhr, and Philip Rieff. A notable group of graduate students worked at the University of Rochester with Lasch, Eugene Genovese, and, for a time, Herbert Gutman, including Leon Fink, Russell Jacoby, Bruce Levine, David Noble, Maurice Isserman, William Leach, Rochelle Gurstein, Kevin Mattson, and Catherine Tumber.\n\nAfter seemingly successful cancer surgery in 1992, Lasch was diagnosed with metastatic cancer in 1993. Upon learning that it was unlikely to significantly prolong his life, he refused chemotherapy, observing that it would rob him of the energy he needed to continue writing and teaching. To one persistent specialist, he wrote: \"I despise the cowardly clinging to life, purely for the sake of life, that seems so deeply ingrained in the American temperament.\" Lasch succumbed to cancer in his Pittsford, New York, home on February 14, 1994, at age 61.\n\nLasch's earliest argument, anticipated partly by Hofstadter's concern with the cycles of fragmentation among radical movements in the United States, was that American radicalism had at some point in the past become socially untenable. Members of \"the Left\" had abandoned their former commitments to economic justice and suspicion of power, to assume professionalized roles and to support commoditized lifestyles which hollowed out communities' self-sustaining ethics. His first major book, \"The New Radicalism in America: The Intellectual as a Social Type\", published in 1965 (with a promotional blurb from Hofstadter), expressed those ideas in the form of a bracing critique of twentieth-century liberalism's efforts to accrue power and restructure society, while failing to follow up on the promise of the New Deal. Most of his books, even the more strictly historical ones, include such sharp criticism of the priorities of alleged \"radicals\" who represented merely extreme formations of a rapacious capitalist ethos.\n\nHis basic thesis about the family, which he first expressed in 1965 and explored for the rest of his career, was:\n\nLasch's most famous work, \"The Culture of Narcissism: American Life in an Age of Diminishing Expectations\" (1979), sought to relate the hegemony of modern-day capitalism to an encroachment of a \"therapeutic\" mindset into social and family life similar to that already theorized by Philip Rieff. Lasch posited that social developments in the 20th century (e.g., World War II and the rise of consumer culture in the years following) gave rise to a narcissistic personality structure, in which individuals’ fragile self-concepts had led, among other things, to a fear of commitment and lasting relationships (including religion), a dread of aging (i.e., the 1960s and 1970s \"youth culture\") and a boundless admiration for fame and celebrity (nurtured initially by the motion picture industry and furthered principally by television). He claimed, further, that this personality type conformed to structural changes in the world of work (e.g., the decline of agriculture and manufacturing in the US and the emergence of the \"information age\"). With those developments, he charged, inevitably there arose a certain therapeutic sensibility (and thus dependence) that, inadvertently or not, undermined older notions of self-help and individual initiative. By the 1970s even pleas for \"individualism\" were desperate and essentially ineffectual cries which expressed a deeper lack of meaningful individuality.\n\nMost explicitly in \"The True and Only Heaven\", Lasch developed a critique of social change among the middle classes in the US, explaining and seeking to counteract the fall of elements of \"populism\". He sought to rehabilitate this populist or producerist alternative tradition: \"The tradition I am talking about ... tends to be skeptical of programs for the wholesale redemption of society ... It is very radically democratic and in that sense it clearly belongs on the Left. But on the other hand it has a good deal more respect for tradition than is common on the Left, and for religion too.\" And said that: \"... any movement that offers any real hope for the future will have to find much of its moral inspiration in the plebeian radicalism of the past and more generally in the indictment of progress, large-scale production and bureaucracy that was drawn up by a long line of moralists whose perceptions were shaped by the producers' view of the world.\"\n\nBy the 1980s, Lasch had poured scorn on the whole spectrum of contemporary mainstream American political thought, angering liberals with attacks on progressivism and feminism. He wrote that\n\nThe liberal journalist Susan Faludi dubbed him explicitly anti-feminist for his criticism of the abortion rights movement and opposition to divorce. But Lasch viewed Ronald Reagan's conservatism as the antithesis of tradition and moral responsibility. Lasch was not generally sympathetic to the cause of what was then known as the New Right, particularly those elements of libertarianism most evident in its platform; he detested the encroachment of the capitalist marketplace into all aspects of American life.\n\nLasch rejected the dominant political constellation that emerged in the wake of the New Deal in which economic centralization and social tolerance formed the foundations of American liberal ideals, while also rebuking the diametrically opposed synthetic conservative ideology fashioned by William F. Buckley Jr. and Russell Kirk. Lasch also was surprisingly critical and at times dismissive toward his closest contemporary kin in social philosophy, communitarianism as elaborated by Amitai Etzioni. Only populism satisfied Lasch's criteria of economic justice (not necessarily equality, but minimizing class-based difference), participatory democracy, strong social cohesion and moral rigor; yet populism had made major mistakes during the New Deal and increasingly been co-opted by its enemies and ignored by its friends. For instance, he praised the early work and thought of Martin Luther King as exemplary of American populism; yet in Lasch's view, King fell short of this radical vision by embracing in the last few years of his life an essentially bureaucratic solution to ongoing racial stratification.\n\nHe explained in one of his books \"The Minimal Self\", \"it goes without saying that sexual equality in itself remains an eminently desirable objective ...\". In \"Women and the Common Life\", Lasch clarified that urging women to abandon the household and forcing them into a position of economic dependence, in the workplace, pointing out the importance of professional careers does not entail liberation, as long as these careers are governed by the requirements of corporate economy.\n\nIn his last months, he worked closely with his daughter Elisabeth to complete \"The Revolt of the Elites: And the Betrayal of Democracy\", published in 1994, in which he \"excoriated the new meritocratic class, a group that had achieved success through the upward-mobility of education and career and that increasingly came to be defined by rootlessness, cosmopolitanism, a thin sense of obligation, and diminishing reservoirs of patriotism,\" and \"argued that this new class 'retained many of the vices of aristocracy without its virtues,' lacking the sense of 'reciprocal obligation' that had been a feature of the old order.\"\nChristopher Lasch analyzes the widening gap between the top and bottom of the social composition in the United States. For him, our epoch is determined by a social phenomenon: the revolt of the elites, in reference to \"The Revolt of the Masses\" (1929) of the Spanish philosopher José Ortega y Gasset. According to Lasch, the new elites, i.e. those who are in the top 20 percent in terms of income, through globalization which allows total mobility of capital, no longer live in the same world as their fellow-citizens. In this, they oppose the old bourgeoisie of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, which was constrained by its spatial stability to a minimum of rooting and civic obligations.\n\nGlobalization, according to the historian, has turned elites into tourists in their own countries. The de-nationalization of society tends to produce a class who see themselves as \"world citizens, but without accepting ... any of the obligations that citizenship in a polity normally implies\". Their ties to an international culture of work, leisure, information - make many of them deeply indifferent to the prospect of national decline. Instead of financing public services and the public treasury, new elites are investing their money in improving their voluntary ghettos: private schools in their residential neighborhoods, private police, garbage collection systems. They have \"withdrawn from common life\".\n\nComposed of those who control the international flows of capital and information, who preside over philanthropic foundations and institutions of higher education, manage the instruments of cultural production and thus fix the terms of public debate. So, the political debate is limited mainly to the dominant classes and political ideologies lose all contact with the concerns of the ordinary citizen. The result of this is that no one has a likely solution to these problems and that there are furious ideological battles on related issues. \nHowever, they remain protected from the problems affecting the working classes: the decline of industrial activity, the resulting loss of employment, the decline of the middle class, increasing the number of the poor, the rising crime rate, growing drug trafficking, the urban crisis.\n\nIn addition, he finalized his intentions for the essays to be included in \"Women and the Common Life: Love, Marriage, and Feminism\", which was published, with his daughter's introduction, in 1997.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7526734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7526734", "title": "Ciguapa", "text": "Ciguapa\n\nA Ciguapa (pronounced see-GWAH-pah) is a mythological creature of Dominican and Puerto Rican folklore. They are commonly described as having human female form with brown or dark blue skin, backward facing feet, and very long manes of smooth, glossy hair that covers their otherwise naked bodies. They supposedly inhabit the high mountains of the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico.\n\nThese creatures have nocturnal habits. Also, due to the position of their feet, one can never quite tell from which direction the beings are moving from by looking at their footprints. Some people believe that they bring death, and it is said that one should not look them in the eye, otherwise the person is at risk of being bewitched permanently. Also, the only vocalization made by ciguapas is said to be a kind of whine or chirping.\n\nCiguapas are considered to be magical beings, beautiful in appearance to some, yet horrendous to others. All sources agree that they are wild creatures. They are compared in many cases to mermaids: beautiful yet cruel, and far from innocent. Deceitful and ready to capture the wayward traveler, they are said that they are so beautiful as to lure men into the forest, even though following footprints is misleading, to make love with them only to kill them afterwards. Even today, one can still find inhabitants who confirm having sighted a ciguapa.\n\nLore states that the only way to capture a ciguapa is by tracking them at night, during a full moon, with a black and white polydactylic dog (called \"cinqueño\" dog).\n\nThough many believe that the myth of the ciguapa is of Taino origin, it has been argued that is probably of more recent concoction, being possibly attributed to African beliefs brought to the island by enslaved peoples during the colonial period. More to the point, no known Taino artifacts or lore make reference to any creature even remotely similar to it. Also, the legend may have originated from other myths, as distant as the Guaraní \"Curupí\" or the Hindu Churel, which was described by Rudyard Kipling in \"My Own True Ghost Story\" as having traits amazingly similar to those of the ciguapa. Nonetheless, the Hindu hypothesis may be far-fetched since there is no way to ascertain how this story got to the Dominican Republic during the nineteenth century, when no cultural exchange whatsoever occurred between these nations.\n\nA Dominican film called \"El Mito de la Ciguapa\" (The Myth of the Ciguapa) is set to be produced by Xenda Films.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "453596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=453596", "title": "Critique", "text": "Critique\n\nCritique is a method of disciplined, systematic study of a written or oral discourse. Although critique is commonly understood as fault finding and negative judgment, it can also involve merit recognition, and in the philosophical tradition it also means a methodical practice of doubt. The contemporary sense of critique has been largely influenced by the Enlightenment critique of prejudice and authority, which championed the emancipation and autonomy from religious and political authorities.\n\nThe term \"critique\" derives, via French, from Ancient Greek (), meaning \"the faculty of judgment\", that is, discerning the value of persons or things. Critique is also known as major logic, as opposed to minor logic or dialectics.\n\nPhilosophy is the application of critical thought, and is the disciplined practice of processing the \"theory/praxis problem\". In philosophical contexts, such as law or academics, critique is most influenced by Kant's use of the term to mean a reflective examination of the validity and limits of a human capacity or of a set of philosophical claims. This has been extended in modern philosophy to mean a systematic inquiry into the conditions and consequences of a concept, a theory, a discipline, or an approach and/or attempt to understand the limitations and validity of that. A \"critical perspective\", in this sense, is the opposite of a dogmatic one. Kant wrote:\n\nLater thinkers such as Hegel used the word 'critique' in a broader way than Kant's sense of the word, to mean the systematic inquiry into the limits of a doctrine or \"set\" of concepts. This referential expansion led, for instance, to the formulation of the idea of social critique, such as arose after Karl Marx's theoretical work delineated in his Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy (1859), which was a critique of the then-current models of economic theory and thought of that time. Further critique can then be applied after the fact, by using thorough critique as a basis for new argument. The idea of \"critique\" is elemental to legal, aesthetic, and literary theory and such practices, such as in the analysis and evaluation of writings such as pictorial, musical, or expanded textual works.\n\nIn French, German, or Italian, no distinction is drawn between 'critique' and 'criticism': the two words both translate as \"critique\", \"Kritik\", and \"critica\", respectively. In the English language, according to philosopher Gianni Vattimo, \"criticism\" is used more frequently to denote literary criticism or art criticism, that is the interpretation and evaluation of literature and art; while \"critique\" may be used to refer to more general and profound writing as Kant's \"Critique of pure reason\". Another proposed distinction is that critique is never personalized nor ad hominem, but is instead the analyses of the structure of the thought in the content of the item critiqued. This analysis then offers by way of the critique method either a rebuttal or a suggestion of further expansion upon the problems presented by the topic of that specific written or oral argumentation. Even authors that believe there might be a distinction suggest that there is some ambiguity that is still unresolved.\n\nMarx's work inspired the 'Frankfurt School' of critical theory, now best exemplified in the work of Jürgen Habermas. This, in turn, helped inspire the cultural studies form of social critique, which treats cultural products and their reception as evidence of wider social ills such as racism or gender bias. Social critique has been further extended in the work of Michel Foucault and of Alasdair MacIntyre. In their different and radically contrasting ways, MacIntyre and Foucault go well beyond the original Kantian meaning of the term \"critique\" in contesting legitimatory accounts of social power.\n\n"}
{"id": "10919251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10919251", "title": "Croatian music festivals", "text": "Croatian music festivals\n\nThe Croatian music festivals are a series of music festivals which showcase the top Croatian musical acts, in both traditional and contemporary music. They usually involve live performances as well as awards given by festival jurors as well as from the fans. The majority of the festivals release a compilation of the songs entered.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50791504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50791504", "title": "Dante Society of America", "text": "Dante Society of America\n\nThe Dante Society of America was founded in 1881 through the leadership of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, James Russell Lowell, and Charles Eliot Norton, who in turn served as the society's first three presidents. One of the oldest scholarly societies in North America, the DSA predates both the Modern Language Association, founded in 1883, and the American Historical Association, founded in 1884. The society's mission, first formulated at its founding and now renewed and reinvigorated for the twenty-first century, is to encourage the study and appreciation of the time, life, works, and cultural legacy of Dante Alighieri. After the Deutsche Dante-Gesellschaft (founded in 1865) it is the second-oldest scholarly organization devoted to the study of this medieval Italian poet. The Dante Society of America is also one of the first scholarly societies in the United States to welcome women among its founding members. The current president is Albert Russell Ascoli of the University of California at Berkeley.\n\nThe society was formally established in 1881 under the leadership of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, James Russell Lowell, and Charles Eliot Norton, who also served as its first three presidents. Without the impetus of Longfellow, both as a translator and as an educator, the Dante Society of America might never have come into being. Scholar Karl Witte had initiated and sustained an early Deutsche Dante-Gesellschaft in Germany for a dozen years before it ceased its activities in 1877. One year earlier, a similar group had come together in Oxford, with scholar Edward Moore at its helm, but it was Longfellow, with his translation of the Italian epic poem, who first brought the Americans James Russell Lowell and Charles Eliot Norton to his table at Craigie House (now a national historic site) to discuss Dante.\n\nWhile Longfellow was designated the first president of the Society, the actual inauguration did not take place until May 16, 1882, two months after Longfellow's death. There, the forty-eight members mourned the loss of Longfellow, while electing Lowell to continue the leadership of the Society.\n\nFounded in Cambridge, Mass., the society has always been closely associated with Harvard University, due in no small part to the lasting influence of these three professors. Harvard was one of the first American universities to make instruction in modern languages (in addition to classical languages) part of its curriculum. Edward Everett Hale, an early member of the Society, remembered his Italian lessons and Longfellow's lectures at Harvard: \n\nLongfellow read the whole of Dante with us and we were well prepared for this by what we had read with [Pietro] Bachi ... And I can say that when we came to hear Longfellow lecture, we were more than prepared for his lectures by the very thorough work which Bachi had done in this same subject with us.\n\nJames Russell Lowell took over Longfellow's course upon his resignation in 1855. Twenty-two years later, he would resign his chair at Harvard to accept the appointment of United States Minister to Spain and pass the course on to a professor in the history of art, Charles Eliot Norton. Norton's classes were described by another early member of the Society, William Roscoe Thayer: \n\nTo read Dante with Norton was almost an act of worship. There was in his voice something wonderfully stirring and wholly incommunicable. As he reached a favorite passage his face became radiant and his tones more tender. He explained fully from every side,-- verbal, textual, literary, spiritual ... In his interpretation of Dante Norton had one immense advantage which neither Lowell nor any other English-speaking Dantist has possessed: he had a specialist's knowledge of mediaeval art. So the thirteenth century lived for him not merely in its poetry, theology, and chronicles, but in paintings and statues in its churches and town halls, and its palaces and dwellings ... he could compass the whole circle of experience and the ideals of that world of which the Divine Comedy is the supreme expression in language.\n\nAnother early goal of the Society was to create a specialized library of Dante literature. Few works by Italian scholars on Dante were available in the United States. The three volume commentary on the Comedy by first published in Paris in 1816 and later reissued by Neapolitan publisher Rondinella in 1868, could be found on the shelves of the Harvard College Library. So too the 1887 edition of Pietro Fraticelli's commentary, originally published in 1860 by G. Barbera of Florence. These might have been supplemented by Cesare Balbo's \"Vita di Dante\", or some of Foscolo's essays, but it was under the direction of William Coolidge Lane, an assistant librarian at the Harvard College Library and member of the Society, that an extensive scholarly collection began to take shape. Charles Eliot Norton's bequest would both broaden and deepen the collection. A 1890 catalog of the collection compiled by Lane and issued by the Harvard Library listed over 1200 volumes on Dante, including over three hundred different editions of the Divine Comedy. Today the collection at Harvard is regarded as the third largest on the subject in the world.\n\nFrom its founding, membership in the Dante Society of America was open to women. This was unusual for the time, as membership in other early scholarly societies in North America such as the American Philosophical Society and the Modern Language Association were not generally open to women. The first annual report of the Society listed Miss S.L. Butler, Mrs. C. Dupee, Miss Heloise Durant, Mrs. S. A. Gordon, Miss Fannie L. Payson, and Mrs. A.L. Wister as founding members. In 1902, Yale Ph.D. and Smith professor Mary Augusta Scott would become the first woman to serve on the Executive Council. Scott was followed by Margaret Jackson in 1907, Anna Lyman Mason Gray in 1913 and Katherine V. Spencer in 1915. Other early female members of note include Anna Eliot Ticknor, Isabella Stewart Gardner, and Caroline Healey Dall.\n\nDuring the 19th and 20th centuries, the Society published an important series of concordances: E.A. Fay, \"Concordance of the Divine Comedy\" (1888); E.S. Sheldon and A.C. White, \"Concordanza delle opere italiane in prosa e del canzoniere di D.\" (1905); E.K. Rand, E.H. Wilkins, and A.C. White, \"D. Alagherii operum latinorum concordantiae\" (1912); E.H. Wilkins and T.G. Bergin, \"Concordance to the D. C.\" (1965).\n\nToday the Society produces the peer-reviewed journal, \"Dante Studies,\" under the editorship of Justin Steinberg, published by Johns Hopkins University Press. The journal is abstracted and indexed in a number of databases. The society also publishes \"The Electronic Bulletin of the Dante Society of America\" under the editorship of Simone Marchesi of Princeton University.\n"}
{"id": "34517100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34517100", "title": "Daria Khaltourina", "text": "Daria Khaltourina\n\nDaria Andreyevna Khaltourina (; born 4 January 1979 in Chelyabinsk) is a Russian sociologist, anthropologist, demographer, and a public figure. She is the head of the Group of the Monitoring of Global and Regional Risks of the Russian Academy of Sciences, co-chairperson of the Russian Coalition for Alcohol Control, as well as the Russian Coalition for Tobacco Control. She is a laureate of the Russian Science Support Foundation Award in \"The Best Economists of the Russian Academy of Sciences\" nomination (2006).\n\nIn this field she has proposed one of the most convincing mathematical explanations for von Foerster's Doomsday Equation. In collaboration with her colleagues, Artemy Malkov and Andrey Korotayev, she has shown that till the 1970s the hyperbolic growth of the world population was accompanied by quadratic-hyperbolic growth of the world GDP, and developed a number of mathematical models describing both this phenomenon, and the World System withdrawal from the blow-up regime observed in the recent decades. The hyperbolic growth of the world population and quadratic-hyperbolic growth of the world GDP observed till the 1970s have been correlated by him and his colleagues to a non-linear second order positive feedback between the demographic growth and technological development that can be spelled out as follows: technological growth – increase in the carrying capacity of land for people – demographic growth – more people – more potential inventors – acceleration of technological growth – accelerating growth of the carrying capacity – the faster population growth – accelerating growth of the number of potential inventors – faster technological growth – hence, the faster growth of the Earth's carrying capacity for people, and so on.\n\nIn collaboration with Andrey Korotayev she has made a significant contribution to the study of the factors of the current Russian demographic crisis. They have demonstrated that post-Soviet Russia experiences one of the world's highest prevalence of alcohol-related problems, which contributes to high mortality rates in this region. Reduction in alcohol-related problems in Russia can have strong effects on mortality decline. They have analyzed the plausibility of application of general principles of alcohol policy translated in the Russian Federation. Khaltourina has shown that alcohol policy approaches could be implemented in the same ways as they have been in other countries. In addition, according to Khaltourina, there should be special attention to decreasing distilled spirits consumption, illegal alcohol production, nonbeverage alcohol consumption, and enforcement of current governmental regulations. In late 2014 they correctly predicted the growth of mortality in Russia to start in early 2015.\n\nKhaltourina was also one of the pioneers (together with Andrey Korotayev) of the study of correlation between spatial distributions of folklore-mythological motifs and genetic markers, as well as linguistic and sociostructural characteristics, and produced in this area significant results with respect to the deep history reconstruction. As is noticed by Julien d'Huy et al., \"Korotayev and Khaltourina showed statistical correlation between spatial distributions of mythological motifs and genetic markers, considerably above the 4,000 km... Such correlations allow us to reconstruct in detail the mythology... brought to the New World from South Siberia by three Paleolithic migration waves\".\n\nKhaltourina and her colleagues have demonstrated that Protestantism has indeed influenced positively the capitalist development of respective social systems not so much through the \"Protestant ethics\" (as was suggested by Max Weber) but rather through the promotion of literacy.\n\nShe has authored over 120 scholarly publications. These include\n\nAmong her more important articles are\n"}
{"id": "20579813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20579813", "title": "Dead on Arrival (Nancy Drew/Hardy Boys)", "text": "Dead on Arrival (Nancy Drew/Hardy Boys)\n\nDead on Arrival is a Nancy Drew and Hardy Boys Supermystery crossover novel, published in 1995.\n\nNancy Drew is called in to assist Brenda Carlson, a journalist at a local newspaper. Pam Harter, ace investigative journalist at Brenda's paper, is missing. Meanwhile, the Hardys go undercover as EMTs to catch the ghouls who have been holding up ambulances and stealing bodies. They meet Nancy when she finds Pam Harter's body and team up with her to find the guilty party.\n\n"}
{"id": "18875864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18875864", "title": "Empègue", "text": "Empègue\n\nEmpègues are small images stencilled on doorways in southern France. The empègue symbolises that the household has contributed to groups of youths gathering funds for celebrations each August.\n\nThe drawings are made by the youths of a village and are said to date from the early part of the twentieth century when the local male youths would be conscripted into the military. Conscription is no longer practised in France but the tradition continues. The images are of traditional subjects which symbolise the local area. In the Petite Camargue the images frequently involve horses, flamingoes and of course bulls, because of the local version of bullfighting \"(Course camarguaise)\". In the version of bullfighting licensed in France the bull is merely decorated with prizes which youths attempt to steal from the long-horned bull. The bull gets to fight another day.\n\nThe word is said to have derived from a word in Occitan, empeguar, which means \"stick\". In Spanish the meaning is to mark with pitch. Another suggestion is that it comes from Pegare - the word for paste. The original Empègues were made from a mixture of soot and paste.\n\nThe images frequently include the abbreviation V.L.J. which stands for \"Vive La Jeunesse\" and the year of creation. In this way it is possible to date the development of the designs over many years. The samples included here date back over 40 years to 1964 (when conscription was still practised). Many of these images are from the village of Beauvoisin, but they could have come from any of the villages in Southern France where many of the smallest villages will have their own arena for bullfighting.\n\nGroups are formed which fund raise for the season of celebrations of youth called the aubade in August. Groups will form to support their teams, to gather funds and to place their empègues around their area and at their base.\n\nThe purpose of the images is to record which houses have contributed to the funds for the festival. This is why the images vary from year to year and why the design is important. The Empègue is the \"brand\" of the group that collected money from you.\n"}
{"id": "11728515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11728515", "title": "European Romantic Review", "text": "European Romantic Review\n\nEuropean Romantic Review (ERR) is a scholarly peer-review journal founded in 1990 and devoted to the interdisciplinary study of nineteenth-century culture. \n\nThe journal was co-founded by the poet and literary critic Kelly Grovier. Published six times a year by Taylor & Francis, \"ERR\" is closely linked with NASSR (The North American Society for the Study of Romanticism).\n\n"}
{"id": "9432015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9432015", "title": "Garuli", "text": "Garuli\n\nThe Garuli were an ancient Ligurian tribe mentioned by Livy as being subjugated by Rome under consuls Marcus Aemilius Lepidus and Quintus Mucius Scaevola in 175 BCE. (Liv. xli. 19.) They inhabited the area of Cenisola.\n"}
{"id": "250466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=250466", "title": "Generative art", "text": "Generative art\n\nGenerative art refers to art that in whole or in part has been created with the use of an autonomous system. An autonomous system in this context is generally one that is non-human and can independently determine features of an artwork that would otherwise require decisions made directly by the artist. In some cases the human creator may claim that the generative system represents their own artistic idea, and in others that the system takes on the role of the creator.\n\n\"Generative art\" often refers to algorithmic art (algorithmically determined computer generated artwork), but artists can also make it using systems of chemistry, biology, mechanics and robotics, smart materials, manual randomization, mathematics, data mapping, symmetry, tiling, and more.\n\nThe use of the word \"generative\" in the discussion of art has developed over time. The use of \"Artificial DNA\" defines a generative approach to art focused on the construction of a system able to generate unpredictable events, all with a recognizable common character. The use of autonomous systems, required by some contemporary definitions, focuses a generative approach where the controls are strongly reduced. This approach is also named \"emergent\". Margaret Boden and Ernest Edmonds have noted the use of the term \"generative art\" in the broad context of automated computer graphics in the 1960s, beginning with artwork exhibited by Georg Nees and Frieder Nake in 1965:\n\nThe first such exhibition showed the work of Nees in February 1965, which some claim was titled \"Generative Computergrafik\". While Nees does not himself remember, this was the title of his doctoral thesis published a few years later. The correct title of the first exhibition and catalog was \"computer-grafik\". \"Generative art\" and related terms was in common use by several other early computer artists around this time, including Manfred Mohr. The term \"Generative Art\" with the meaning of dynamic artwork-systems able to generate multiple artwork-events was clearly used the first time for the \"Generative Art\" conference in Milan in 1998.\n\nThe term has also been used to describe geometric abstract art where simple elements are repeated, transformed, or varied to generate more complex forms. Thus defined, generative art was practised by the Argentinian artists Eduardo McEntyre and Miguel Ángel Vidal in the late 1960s. In 1972 the Romanian-born Paul Neagu created the Generative Art Group in Britain. It was populated exclusively by Neagu using aliases such as \"Hunsy Belmood\" and \"Edward Larsocchi.\" In 1972 Neagu gave a lecture titled 'Generative Art Forms' at the Queen's University, Belfast Festival.\n\nIn 1970 the School of the Art Institute of Chicago created a department called \"Generative Systems.\" As described by Sonia Landy Sheridan the focus was on art practices using the then new technologies for the capture, inter-machine transfer, printing and transmission of images, as well as the exploration of the aspect of time in the transformation of image information.\n\nIn 1988 Clauser identified the aspect of systemic autonomy as a critical element in generative art:\n\nIn 1989 Celestino Soddu defined the Generative Design approach to Architecture and Town Design in his book \"Citta' Aleatorie\".\n\nIn 1989 Franke referred to \"generative mathematics\" as \"the study of mathematical operations suitable for generating artistic images.\"\n\nFrom the mid-1990s Brian Eno popularized the terms generative music and generative systems, making a connection with earlier experimental music by Terry Riley, Steve Reich and Philip Glass.\n\nFrom the end of the 20th century, communities of generative artists, designers, musicians and theoreticians began to meet, forming cross-disciplinary perspectives. \nThe first meeting about generative Art was in 1998, at the inaugural International Generative Art conference at Politecnico di Milano University, Italy. \nIn Australia, the Iterate conference on generative systems in the electronic arts followed in 1999. \nOn-line discussion has centred around the eu-gene mailing list, which began late 1999, and has hosted much of the debate which has defined the field. These activities have more recently been joined by the Generator.x conference in Berlin starting in 2005.\nIn 2012 the new journal GASATHJ, Generative Art Science and Technology Hard Journal was founded by Celestino Soddu and Enrica Colabella jointing several generative artists and scientists in the Editorial Board.\n\nSome have argued that as a result of this engagement across disciplinary boundaries, the community has converged on a shared meaning of the term. As Boden and Edmonds put it in 2011:\n\nIn the call of the Generative Art conferences in Milan (annually starting from 1998), the definition of Generative Art by Celestino Soddu:\n\nDiscussion on the eu-gene mailing list was framed by the following definition by Adrian Ward from 1999:\n\nA similar definition is provided by Philip Galanter:\n\nJohann Philipp Kirnberger's \"Musikalisches Würfelspiel\" (Musical Dice Game) 1757 is considered an early example of a generative system based on randomness. Dice were used to select musical sequences from a numbered pool of previously composed phrases. This system provided a balance of order and disorder. The structure was based on an element of order on one hand, and disorder on the other.\n\nThe fugues of J.S. Bach could be considered generative, in that there is a strict underlying process that is followed by the composer. Similarly, serialism follows strict procedures which, in some cases, can be set up to generate entire compositions with limited human intervention.\n\nComposers such as John Cage, Farmers Manual and Brian Eno have used generative systems in their works.\n\nThe artist Ellsworth Kelly created paintings by using chance operations to assign colors in a grid. He also created works on paper that he then cut into strips or squares and reassembled using chance operations to determine placement.\n\nArtists such as Hans Haacke have explored processes of physical and social systems in artistic context. \nFrançois Morellet has used both highly ordered and highly disordered systems in his artwork. Some of his paintings feature regular systems of radial or parallel lines to create Moiré Patterns. In other works he has used chance operations to determine the coloration of grids. Sol LeWitt created generative art in the form of systems expressed in natural language and systems of geometric permutation. Harold Cohen's AARON system is a longstanding project combining software artificial intelligence with robotic painting devices to create physical artifacts. \nSteina and Woody Vasulka are video art pioneers who used analog video feedback to create generative art. Video feedback is now cited as an example of deterministic chaos, and the early explorations by the Vasulkas anticipated contemporary science by many years.\nSoftware systems exploiting evolutionary computing to create visual form include those created by Scott Draves and Karl Sims.\nThe digital artist Joseph Nechvatal has exploited models of viral contagion. \n\"Autopoiesis\" by Ken Rinaldo includes fifteen musical and robotic sculptures that interact with the public and modify their behaviors based on both the presence of the participants and each other.\nJean-Pierre Hebert and Roman Verostko are founding members of the Algorists, a group of artists who create their own algorithms to create art.\nA. Michael Noll, of Bell Telephone Laboratories, Incorporated, programmed computer art using mathematical equations and programmed randomness, starting in 1962.\nThe French artist Jean-Max Albert, beside environmental sculptures like \"Iapetus\", and \"O=C=O\", developed a project dedicated to the vegetation itself, in terms of biological activity. The \"Calmoduline Monument\" project is based on the property of a protein, calmodulin, to bond selectively to calcium. Exterior physical constraints (wind, rain, etc.) modify the electric potential of the cellular membranes of a plant and consequently the flux of calcium. However, the calcium controls the expression of the calmoduline gene. The plant can thus, when there is a stimulus, modify its « typical » growth pattern. So the basic principle of this monumental sculpture is that to the extent that they could be picked up and transported, these signals could be enlarged, translated into colors and shapes, and show the plant’s « decisions » suggesting a level of fundamental biological activity.\n\nMaurizio Bolognini works with generative machines to address conceptual and social concerns.\nMark Napier is a pioneer in data mapping, creating works based on the streams of zeros and ones in ethernet traffic, as part of the \"Carnivore\" project. Martin Wattenberg pushed this theme further, transforming \"data sets\" as diverse as musical scores (in \"Shape of Song\", 2001) and Wikipedia edits (History Flow, 2003, with Fernanda Viegas) into dramatic visual compositions.\nThe Canadian artist San Base developed a \"Dynamic Painting\" algorithm in 2002. Using computer algorithms as \"brush strokes,\" Base creates sophisticated imagery that evolves over time to produce a fluid, never-repeating artwork.\n\nFor some artists, graphic user interfaces and computer code have become an independent art form in themselves. Adrian Ward created Auto-Illustrator as a commentary on software and generative methods applied to art and design.\n\nIn 1987 Celestino Soddu created the artificial DNA of Italian Medieval towns able to generate endless 3D models of cities identifiable as belonging to the idea.\n\nWriters such as Tristan Tzara, Brion Gysin, and William Burroughs used the cut-up technique to introduce randomization to literature as a generative system. Jackson Mac Low produced computer-assisted poetry and used algorithms to generate texts; Philip M. Parker has written software to automatically generate entire books. Jason Nelson used generative methods with Speech-to-Text software to create a series of digital poems from movies, television and other audio sources.\n\nGenerative systems may be modified while they operate, for example by using interactive programming environments such as Max/MSP, vvvv, Fluxus, Isadora, Quartz Composer and openFrameworks. This is a standard approach to programming by artists, but may also be used to create live music and/or video by manipulating generative systems on stage, a performance practice that has become known as live coding. As with many examples of software art, because live coding emphasises human authorship rather than autonomy, it may be considered in opposition to generative art.\n\nIn the most widely cited theory of generative art, in 2003 Philip Galanter describes generative art systems in the context of complexity theory. In particular the notion of Murray Gell-Mann and Seth Lloyd's effective complexity is cited. In this view both highly ordered and highly disordered generative art can be viewed as simple. Highly ordered generative art minimizes entropy and allows maximal data compression, and highly disordered generative art maximizes entropy and disallows significant data compression. Maximally complex generative art blends order and disorder in a manner similar to biological life, and indeed biologically inspired methods are most frequently used to create complex generative art. This view is at odds with the earlier information theory influenced views of Max Bense and Abraham Moles where complexity in art increases with disorder.\n\nGalanter notes further that given the use of visual symmetry, pattern, and repetition by the most ancient known cultures generative art is as old as art itself. He also addresses the mistaken equivalence by some that rule-based art is synonymous with generative art. For example, some art is based on constraint rules that disallow the use of certain colors or shapes. Such art is not generative because constraint rules are not constructive, i.e. by themselves they don't assert what is to be done, only what cannot be done.\n\nIn their 2009 article, Margaret Boden and Ernest Edmonds agree that generative art need not be restricted to that done using computers, and that some rule-based art is not generative. They develop a technical vocabulary that includes Ele-art (electronic art), C-art (computer art), D-art (digital art), CA-art (computer assisted art), G-art (generative art), CG-art (computer based generative art), Evo-art (evolutionary based art), R-art (robotic art), I-art (interactive art), CI-art (computer based interactive art), and VR-art (virtual reality art).\n\nThe discourse around generative art can be characterised by the theoretical questions which motivate its development. McCormack et al. propose the following questions, shown with paraphrased summaries, as the most important:\n\n\nAnother question is of postmodernism—are generative art systems the ultimate expression of the postmodern condition, or do they point to a new synthesis based on a complexity-inspired world-view?\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21864380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21864380", "title": "George Sapounidis", "text": "George Sapounidis\n\nYiorgos Sapounidis better known as George Sapounidis is a Greek Canadian musician / troubadour, statistician and a Sinophile living in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. He was also subject of 2005 Canadian documentary film entitled \"Chairman George\". The documentary, directed by Daniel Cross and Mila Aung-Thwin and produced by EyeSteelFilm in association with CTV, BBC's \"Storyville\" series and TV2, tells the story of Sapounidis as a musician popular in China campaigning for approval to perform at the closing ceremonies of 2004 Athens Olympics when the flag was to be given to Beijing for organizing the 2008 Beijing Olympics. In addition to Greek and Mandarin Chinese, he sings in more than five other languages.\n\nYet, by day, this Montreal-born, Ottawa-based folksinger is a graduate from University of Toronto earning a PhD in Mathematical Statistics. He recently retired from Statistics Canada to concentrate on his music.\n\nSapounidis founded his multicultural band \"Ouzo Power\" in 1988, giving a new spin to Greek music on the Canadian scene, bringing in jazz elements and translating the songs of the likes of Bob Dylan and Led Zeppelin into Greek for audiences at folk and multicultural music festivals as well as CBC Television and CBC Radio producing two albums, including a successful CD of international folk songs.\n\nAlthough he has been performing regularly at all manner of folk festivals, awards ceremonies, multicultural events, variety shows and special events as well as on Canadian radio and television for over 20 years, it's George Sapounidis' concert tours of China that have catapulted him to stardom in China.\n\nOddly enough, the Greek-Canadian Sapounidis became a Chinese folk-singing sensation who has appeared at international festivals across China; on stage at Beijing's Forbidden City Concert Hall, and for China Central Television.\n\nEver since the Embassy of the People's Republic of China in Canada invited Sapounidis to perform at an international folk festival in Shanghai in the fall of 2000, the Chinese people have not been able to get enough of the Greek-Canadian. They have invited him back some 30 times since then – beginning with the Nanning International Arts Festival of Folksongs the same year, a Beijing tour in May 2002 and again, four months later in September 2002. Another music tour followed in the fall of 2003, a concert in December and the ten-day Shanghai Baoshan International Folk Arts Festival again in the fall of 2004.\n\nSapounidis attributes his success to a special affinity for Chinese culture. He was already skilled at performing in several languages when first asked to sing in Mandarin Chinese. Intrigued, and with help from his Chinese girlfriend, herself an acclaimed poet, he learned a traditional Mandarin folk song over the next few weeks. He was hooked. His repertoire of Chinese folk songs began to grow – as did his Mandarin language skills. Soon he was performing for Chinese Embassy officials in Ottawa, which in turn led to an invitation to perform in China. Audiences loved him, disarmed and enchanted that a westerner would come into their midst and perform their songs with such depth and emotion.\n\nUpon returning to Ottawa, George formed a new band, The George Sapounidis Trio, with percussionist Ken Easton and Jeremy Moyer, another Sinophile who plays a variety of Chinese stringed instruments. They performed songs, new and old, from around the world. The songs Sapounidis composes in Chinese, by contrast, are sweet and simple reflecting yearning, friendship, loneliness and love. In 2002 he released a CD called Songs about China and Greece to be followed in summer of 2005 with George from Athens to Beijing, comprising a variety of traditional Greek and Chinese folks songs along with personal compositions reflecting the latest twists in his personal and musical quest. Some of the songs were recorded in China with Chinese backup musicians and singers – one was recorded live on the Great Wall – and others were recorded in Canada with Canadian and Greek guest artists using a wide variety of international instruments. His folk songs express the universality of human emotion – the Greek in a passionate extroverted style, the Chinese in a poetic ethereal and far more introverted manner. Yet they complement one another \"on stage and within myself.\" George explains. It's these contradictions, he adds, that feed the artist's soul.\n\nIn 2001, when Beijing won the 2008 Olympics bid, Sapounidis saw an opportunity to \"build bridges between cultures\" in 2004, when the Olympic flag would be passed from Athens to Beijing. And so began a journey – and a documentary, EyeSteelFilm's \"Chairman George,\" chronicling the singer's unrelenting pursuit of his dream to perform at the closing ceremonies. Director Daniel Cross and his crew followed Sapounidis across three continents as he tracked down and lobbied Canadian, Greek and Chinese officials, dogging them even onto the Great Wall.\n\nIn the end it was not meant to be. But new unexpected paths appeared. George was an Olympic relay torch-bearer in Montreal. He spent the Athens Olympics in the Olympic Village as a National Olympic Committee Assistant, capitalizing on his Greek and Chinese language skills to assist the Chinese team. It didn't take long before his impromptu performances again attracted both Greek and Chinese radio and television attention. This was followed by an invitation from the Humanistic Olympics Studies Centre at Renmin University to teach a series of classes on Olympic volunteering in Beijing.\n\nThe documentary \"Chairman George\" follows George's efforts to get to the Olympics. The film synopsis states that:\n\nTo accompany the documentary, in 2005 George Sapounidis released his CD George: From Athens to Beijing. \"Chairman George\" won awards at the AFI/Silverdocs and at Guangzhou Documentary Festival.\n\nThe CD \"George: From Athens to Beijing\" was nominated for Best World Music album at the 2005 Canadian Folk Music Awards.\n\nWith his band — bassist Stuart Watkins, guitarist Fred Guignion and drummer/producer Ross Murray — Sapounidis revived the Ouzo Power project, to create an album of rocked-up Greek folk songs. Perhaps inevitably, this led to the artist's most recent evolution: a fusion of Greek and Chinese musical influences that finds Sapounidis and band, including new members Yadong Guan (pipa) and Cindy Yang (ghuzeng), offering a mix of Greek and Chinese songs performed in Mandarin. A full-length album of Sapounidis — now billed as Chairman George, in deference to the documentary — and his band's unique mash of Greek and Chinese influences is to be released internationally in October 2014, to coincide with a 10-city tour of China.\n\n"}
{"id": "13154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13154", "title": "Glen or Glenda", "text": "Glen or Glenda\n\nGlen or Glenda is a 1953 American drama film written, directed by and starring Ed Wood (credited in his starring role as \"Daniel Davis\"), and featuring Bela Lugosi and Wood's then-girlfriend Dolores Fuller. It was produced by George Weiss who also made the exploitation film \"Test Tube Babies\" that same year.\n\nThe film is a docudrama about cross-dressing and transsexuality, and is semi-autobiographical in nature. Wood himself was a cross-dresser, and the film is a plea for tolerance. It is widely considered one of the worst films ever. However, it has become a cult film due to its low-budget production values and idiosyncratic style.\n\nThe film begins with a narrator, called The Scientist (Bela Lugosi), making cryptic comments about humanity. He first comments that humanity's constant search for the unknown results in startling things coming to light. But most of these \"new\" discoveries are actually quite old, which he refers to as \"the signs of the ages\". Later, the scene turns to the streets of a city, with the narrator commenting that each human has his/her own thoughts, ideas, and personality. He makes further comments on human life, while sounds accompany some comments. The cries of a newborn baby are followed by the sirens of an ambulance. One is a sign that a new life has begun, the other that a life has ended.\n\nThis last comment starts the narrative of the film. The life which has ended is that of a transvestite named Patrick/Patricia, who has committed suicide. A scene opens with their corpse in a small room. Within the room is an unidentified man who opens the door to a physician, a photographer, and the police. A suicide note explains the reasons behind the suicide. Patrick/Patricia had been arrested four times for cross-dressing in public, and had spent time in prison. Since they would continue wearing women's clothing, subsequent arrests and imprisonment were only a matter of time. So they ended their own life and wished to be buried with their women's clothing. \"Let my body rest in death forever, in the things I cannot wear in life.\"\n\nInspector Warren is puzzled and wants to know more about cross-dressing. So he seeks the office of Dr. Alton, who narrates for him the story of Glen/Glenda. Glen is shown studying women's clothes in a shop window. Dr. Alton points out that men's clothes are dull and restrictive, whereas women can adorn themselves with attractive and comfortable clothing. A flashback scene reveals that a young Glen started out by asking to wear his sister's dress for a Halloween party. And he did, despite his father's protests. But he then continued wearing his sister's clothing, and Sheila (the sister) eventually caught him in the act. She shuns him afterward.\n\nThe narrative explains that Glen is a transvestite, but not a homosexual. He hides his cross-dressing from his fiancée, Barbara, fearing that she will reject him. She has no idea that certain of her clothes are fetish objects for him. When Barbara notices that something is bothering him, Glen does not have the courage to explain his secret to her. She voices her suspicion that there is another woman in his life, unaware that the woman is his feminine inner self, Glenda. The scene shifts from a speechless Glen to footage of a stampeding herd of bison, while the Scientist calls for Glen to \"Pull the string\". The meaning of the call is unclear, though it could be a call for opening the proverbial curtain and revealing the truth.\n\nAlton narrates that Glen is torn between the idea of being honest with Barbara before their wedding, or waiting until after. The narrative shifts briefly from Glen's story to how society reacts to sex change operations. A conversation between two \"average joes\", concludes that society should be more \"lenient\" when it comes to people with tranvestite tendencies. The story returns to Glen, who confides in a transvestite friend of his, John, whose wife left him after catching him wearing her clothes.\n\nLater, a scene opens with Glen/Glenda walking the city streets at night. They return home in obvious anguish, when the sound of thunder causes them to collapse to the floor. The Scientist cryptically comments \"Beware! Beware! Beware of the big, green dragon that sits on your doorstep! He eats little boys, puppy dog tails, and big, fat snails! Take care! Beware!\" This serves as the introduction to an extended dream sequence. The dream opens with Barbara anguished at seeing Glenda. Then Barbara is depicted trapped under a tree, while the room around is in a chaotic state. Glenda fails to lift the tree and rescue Barbara. Glenda is replaced by Glen, who completes the task with ease. The dream then depicts Glen and Barbara getting married. The priest seems normal but the best man is a stereotypical devil, smiling ominously, suggesting that this marriage is damned. The dream shifts to the Scientist, who seems to speak to the unseen dragon, asking it what it eats. The voice of a little girl provides the answers in an apparently mocking tone.\n\nThe dreams continues with a strange series of vignettes. A woman is whipped by a shirtless man in a BDSM-themed vignette. Several women \"flirt and partially disrobe\" for an unseen audience. A woman tears apart her dress in a dramatic manner, then starts a coy striptease. The whipped woman from an earlier vignette appears alone in an autoerotic session. Her pleasure is interrupted by another woman who forcibly binds and gags her. Another woman has a similar autoerotic session and then falls asleep. As she sleeps, a predatory male approaches and rapes her, with the victim seeming partially willing by the end of it. Throughout these vignettes, the faces of Glen and the Scientist appear. They seem to be silently reacting to the various images.\n\nThe dream returns to Glen, who is haunted by sounds of mocking voices and howling winds. He is soon confronted by two spectral figures. A blackboard appears, with messages recording what the Scientist or the mocking voices said in previous scenes. A large number of spectres appear, all gazing at him with disapproval, as if serving as the jury of public opinion on his perceived deviance. The mocking voices return. The Devil and the various spectres menacingly approach Glen. Then the Devil departs, Glen turns into Glenda, and the spectres retreat. A victorious Glenda sees Barbara and approaches her, but she turns into a mocking Devil. Barbara starts appearing and disappearing, always evading Glenda's embrace. Then she starts mocking her lover. The Devil and spectres also shift to mocking Glenda. The dream sequence ends.\n\nGlen/Glenda wakes and stares at their mirror reflection. They decide to tell Barbara the truth. She initially reacts with distress, but ultimately decides to stay with him. She offers them an angora sweater as a sign of acceptance. The scene effectively concludes their story.\n\nBack in Dr. Alton's office, he starts another narrative. This one concerns another tranvestite, called Alan/Ann. He was born a boy, but his mother wanted a girl and raised him as such. Their father did not care either way. They were an outsider as a child, trying to be one of the girls and consequently rejected by schoolmates of both sexes. As a teenager, they self-identified as a woman. They were conscripted in World War II, maintaining a secret life throughout their military service. They first heard of sex change operations during the War while recovering from combat wounds in a hospital. They eventually did have a sex change operation, enduring the associated pains to fulfill their dreams. The World War II veteran becomes a \"lovely young lady\". Following a brief epilogue, the film ends.\n\n\nShot in four days, the film was loosely inspired by the sex reassignment surgery of Christine Jorgensen, which made national headlines in the U.S. in 1952. Posters for the film publicize the movie as being based on Jorgensen. George Weiss, a Hollywood producer of low-budget films, commissioned a movie to exploit it. Originally Weiss made Jorgensen several offers to appear in the film, but these were turned down. Wood convinced Weiss that his own transvestism made him the perfect director despite his modest resume. Wood was given the job, but instead made a movie about transvestism.\n\nWood persuaded Lugosi, at the time poor and drug-addicted, to appear in the movie. Lugosi's scenes were shot at the Jack Miles Studios in Los Angeles. He was reportedly paid $5000 for the role, although some stories state the actual amount was only $1000. Lugosi is credited as \"The Scientist\", a character whose purpose is unclear. He acts as a sort of narrator but gives no narration relevant to the plot; that job is reserved for the film's primary narrator, Timothy Farrell.\n\nThis was the only film Wood directed but did not also produce. Wood played the eponymous character, but under the pseudonym \"Daniel Davis\". His then-girlfriend, Dolores Fuller, played Glen's girlfriend/fiancée Barbara. Wood later returned to \"Glen or Glenda\" in his pulp novel \"Killer in Drag\" (1963). The plot features a transvestite called Glen whose alter-ego is called Glenda. He is executed in the sequel \"Death of a Transvestite\" (1967) after a struggle for the right to go to the electric chair dressed as Glenda.\n\nThe erotic-themed vignettes were not created by Wood. They were reportedly added by producer George Weiss. He needed extra scenes to add to what he felt was an overtly -short film. While not organic parts of the narrative, they seem to tell their own tales of gender dynamics and so fit in the general themes of the film. The whipping scene suggests a Master/slave relationship. That the man is dominant and the woman submissive, seems to reflect male chauvinism. The flirtatious and striptease-themed vignettes were typical of 1950s exploitation films and grindhouse films, as was the rape scene.\n\nThe film has deleted scenes. In the theatrical trailer, included in laserdisc and DVD editions, the scene in which Fuller hands over her angora sweater, is a different take than the one in the release version — in the trailer, she tosses it to Wood in a huff, while the release version shows her handing it over more acceptingly. There is also a shot of Wood in drag, mouthing the word \"Cut!\"\n\nThe second part of the film, titled \"Alan or Anne\", is much shorter, told largely through stock footage, and was made to meet the distributor's demand for a sex change film. Alan is a pseudo-hermaphrodite who fights in World War II wearing women's underwear. After his return, Alan undergoes surgery to become a woman.\n\nDomestically, the film was limited in release, having been pre-sold to some theaters (under alternative titles such including \"I Led Two Lives\", \"He or She?\" and \"I Changed My Sex\"). Internationally, the film was also limited, and in France and Belgium, the title was translated as \"Louis ou Louise\" and in Argentina as \"Yo Cambié Mi Sexo\"; the film had a brief screening in the Republic of China. It was re-released to theaters in 1981 by Paramount.\n\nAccording to Tim Dirks, the film was one of a wave of \"cheap teen movies\" released for the drive-in market. They consisted of \"exploitative, cheap fare created especially for them [teens] in a newly-established teen/drive-in genre.\"\n\nIt was denied classification by the British Board of Film Classification upon submission on February 26, 1958.\n\nIn 1980, Wood was posthumously given the accolade of 'Worst Director of All Time' at the Golden Turkey Awards, and revival of interest in his work followed. This led to \"Glen or Glenda\" being reissued in 1982. This cut included six minutes of additional footage. One of the restored scenes features Glen rejecting a pass made to him by a man. At this point, the film was reviewed seriously, and reclaimed as a radical work, by Steve Jenkins in the \"Monthly Film Bulletin\".\n\nThe critic Leonard Maltin names \"Glen or Glenda\" as \"possibly the worst movie ever made\".\n\nIn 1994, Tim Burton chronicled the troubled production of \"Glen or Glenda\" in \"Ed Wood\". The film includes re-creations of several key scenes, including Lugosi's narration and Glen's plea for his girlfriend's understanding at the end of the film.\nA remake of the film, entitled \"Glen & Glenda\", was released the same year as \"Ed Wood\" and featured much the same script as the original film, as well as explicit scenes.\n\nIn the 2004 horror comedy film \"Seed of Chucky\", main characters Chucky and Tiffany spend the duration of the film feuding over whether they should call their male child \"Glen or Glenda\" as he lacks genitalia.\n\nIn 2006, the distributed operating system Plan 9 from Bell Labs had a mascot, Glenda, the Plan 9 Bunny, named after \"Glen or Glenda\" and \"Plan 9 from Outer Space\".\n\nIn 2011, the film \"Jack and Jill\" was nominated for every award at the 32nd Golden Raspberry Awards, including Worst Prequel, Remake, Ripoff or Sequel, where it was declared a Remake/Ripoff of \"Glen or Glenda\", despite having nothing to do with the film, other than the lead actor dressed as a woman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21014942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21014942", "title": "Glossary of history", "text": "Glossary of history\n\nThis glossary of history is a list of topics relating to history.\n\n"}
{"id": "10781566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10781566", "title": "Grading (engineering)", "text": "Grading (engineering)\n\nGrading in civil engineering and landscape architectural construction is the work of ensuring a level base, or one with a specified slope, for a construction work such as a foundation, the base course for a road or a railway, or landscape and garden improvements, or surface drainage. The earthworks created for such a purpose are often called the sub-grade or finished contouring (see diagram).\n\nIn the case of gravel roads and earthworks for certain purposes, grading forms not just the base but the cover and surface of the finished construction, and is often called finished grade.\n\nIt is often done using heavy machinery like bulldozers and excavators to roughly prepare an area and then using a grader for a finer finish.\n\nIn the environmental design professions grading and regrading are a specifications and construction component in landscape design, landscape architecture, and architecture projects. It is used for buildings or outdoor amenities regarding foundations and footings, slope terracing and stabilizing, aesthetic contouring, and directing surface runoff drainage of stormwater and domestic/irrigation runoff flows.\n\n"}
{"id": "862361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=862361", "title": "Hückel's rule", "text": "Hückel's rule\n\nIn organic chemistry, Hückel's rule estimates whether a planar ring molecule will have aromatic properties. The quantum mechanical basis for its formulation was first worked out by physical chemist Erich Hückel in 1931. The succinct expression as the 4\"n\" + 2 rule has been attributed to W. v. E. Doering (1951), although several authors were using this form at around the same time.\n\nIn keeping with the Möbius-Hückel concept, a cyclic ring molecule follows Hückel's rule when the number of its π-electrons equals 4\"n\" + 2 where \"n\" is a non-negative integer, although clearcut examples are really only established for values of \"n\" = 0 up to about \"n\" = 6. Hückel's rule was originally based on calculations using the Hückel method, although it can also be justified by considering a particle in a ring system, by the LCAO method and by the Pariser–Parr–Pople method.\n\nAromatic compounds are more stable than theoretically predicted using hydrogenation data of simple alkenes; the additional stability is due to the delocalized cloud of electrons, called \"resonance energy\". Criteria for simple aromatics are:\n\nThe rule can be used to understand the stability of completely conjugated monocyclic hydrocarbons (known as annulenes) as well as their cations and anions.\nThe best-known example is benzene (CH) with a conjugated system of six pi-electrons, which equals 4\"n\" + 2 for \"n\" = 1. The molecule undergoes substitution reactions which preserve the six pi-electron system rather than addition reactions which would destroy it. The stability of this pi-electron system is referred to as aromaticity. Still, in most cases, catalysts are necessary for substitution reactions to occur.\n\nThe cyclopentadienyl anion () with six pi electrons is considerably more stable than either the neutral cyclopentadienyl radical with five pi electrons or the corresponding cation with four. Similarly the tropylium cation () has six pi electrons and is more stable than either the cycloheptatrienyl radical () or its anion. The cyclopropenyl cation () and the triboracyclopropenyl dianion () are considered examples of a 2π-electron system \n\nPlanar ring molecules with 4\"n\" pi electrons do not obey Hückel's rule, and theory predicts that they are less stable and have triplet ground states with two unpaired electrons. In practice such molecules distort from planar regular polygons. Cyclobutadiene (CH) with four pi electrons is stable only at temperatures below 35 K and is rectangular rather than square. Cyclooctatetraene (CH) with eight pi electrons has a nonplanar \"tub\" structure. However the dianion (Cyclooctatetraenide anion), with ten pi electrons obeys the 4\"n\" + 2 rule for \"n\" = 2 and is planar.\n\nHückel's rule is not valid for many compounds containing more than three fused aromatic nuclei in a cyclic fashion. For example, pyrene contains 16 conjugated electrons (8 bonds), and coronene contains 24 conjugated electrons (12 bonds). Both of these polycyclic molecules are aromatic, even though they fail the 4\"n\" + 2 rule. Indeed, Hückel's rule can only be theoretically justified for monocyclic systems.\n\nIn 2000, Andreas Hirsch and coworkers in Erlangen, Germany, formulated a rule to determine when a fullerene would be aromatic. They found that if there were 2(\"n\" + 1) π-electrons, then the fullerene would display aromatic properties. This follows from the fact that an aromatic fullerene must have full icosahedral (or other appropriate) symmetry, so the molecular orbitals must be entirely filled. This is possible only if there are exactly 2(\"n\" + 1) electrons, where \"n\" is a nonnegative integer. In particular, for example, buckminsterfullerene, with 60 π-electrons, is non-aromatic, since 60 ÷ 2 = 30, which is not a perfect square.\n\nIn 2011, Jordi Poater and Miquel Solà, expanded the rule to determine when a fullerene species would be aromatic. They found that if there were 2\"n\" + 2\"n\" + 1 π-electrons, then the fullerene would display aromatic properties. This follows from the fact that an spherical species having a same-spin half-filled last energy level with the whole inner levels being fully filled is also aromatic.\n\n"}
{"id": "31280678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31280678", "title": "Interface (communication studies)", "text": "Interface (communication studies)\n\nIn communication studies, the notion of an interface in the work environment is used for a point of interaction between a number of systems or work groups. In the manufacturing environment, the coordination and interaction between several work groups is used to communicate plans and control production activity. This interaction can be schedules, human interactions, computer systems, or any other medium of communication. A physical interface is the interconnection between two items of hardware or machinery.\n"}
{"id": "3392088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3392088", "title": "International Association of Astronomical Artists", "text": "International Association of Astronomical Artists\n\nThe International Association of Astronomical Artists (IAAA), is a non-profit organization whose members implement and participate in astronomical and space art projects, promote education about space art and foster international cooperation in artistic work inspired by the exploration of the Universe.\n\nThe IAAA was founded in 1982 and was formally registered as an association of astronomical artists in 1986. Since its founding, the IAAA has grown to number over 120 members, representing twenty countries. The organization serves the community of artists creating works inspired by astronomy and outer space, serving as a networking resource on topics specific to the trade as well as issues common to professional artists. Although the early practitioners in the 1930s and 40s, such as Lucian Rudaux and Chesley Bonestell, (see Space Art) were realists, many IAAA artists produce work which is impressionistic, expressionistic, abstract or surreal; however, the majority (unlike science fiction and fantasy artists, who work almost purely from imagination) do have a background in astronomy, physics and mathematics which enables them to interpret accurately the data from observatories and space probes, and convert them into believable images.\n\nThey may also be called upon to depict those very probes and satellites (often working with NASA or JPL scientists) – for who is out there to photograph them? They paint in oils, acrylics, gouache and markers, use pens, pastels or coloured pencils, or the latest digital technology. But these artists have an advantage over mere technology, for they can travel where machines cannot; and this includes into the past, the future and faster than light.\n\nA major activity of the IAAA is space art workshops, in most cases at remote locations with geology common to what has been discovered on other worlds. Iceland, Death Valley, Hawaii, The Colorado Plateau including Meteor Crater, and other locations with a sense of the unworldly about them have been visited in workshops. Painting and sketching such scenery outdoors helps in training the artist to know the landscape and the forces shaping it, as well as to reinforce the sensory impressions one is putting into their work of the effects of light and shade in the atmosphere.\n\n"}
{"id": "57030804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57030804", "title": "International Congress of Orientalists", "text": "International Congress of Orientalists\n\nThe International Congress of Orientalists, initiated in Paris in 1873, was an international conference of Orientalists (initially mostly scholars from Europe and the USA). The first thirteen meetings were held in Europe; the fourteenth congress was held in Algiers in 1905. Papers were primarily about philology and archaeology. The Proceedings of the Congresses were published. The work of the International Congress of Orientalists is carried on by the International Congress of Asian and North African Studies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1888307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1888307", "title": "It was a dark and stormy night", "text": "It was a dark and stormy night\n\n\"It was a dark and stormy night\" is an often-mocked and parodied phrase considered to represent \"the archetypal example of a florid, melodramatic style of fiction writing\", also known as purple prose.\n\nThe phrase was first used by Washington Irving in his 1809 \"A History of New York\". \n\nIts status as a catchphrase for bad writing comes from the opening sentence of English novelist Edward Bulwer-Lytton's 1830 novel \"Paul Clifford\":\n\"Writer's Digest\" described this sentence as \"the literary posterchild for bad story starters\". On the other hand, the \"American Book Review\" ranked it as No. 22 on its \"Best first lines from novels list\".\n\nIn 2008, the great-great-great-grandson of Bulwer-Lytton, Henry Lytton-Cobbold, participated in a debate in the town of Lytton, British Columbia, with Scott Rice, the founder of the International Bulwer-Lytton Fiction Contest. Rice accused Bulwer-Lytton of penning \"27 novels whose perfervid turgidity I intend to expose, denude, and generally make visible\". Lytton-Cobbold defended his ancestor, noting that he had coined many other phrases widely used today such as \"the pen is mightier than the sword\", \"the great unwashed\", and \"the almighty dollar\", and said it was \"rather unfair that Professor Rice decided to name the competition after him for entirely the wrong reasons\".\n\nThe \"Peanuts\" comic strip character Snoopy, in his imagined persona as the World Famous Author, always begins his novels with the phrase \"It was a dark and stormy night.\" Cartoonist Charles Schulz made Snoopy use this phrase because \"it was a cliché, and had been one for a very long time\". A book by Schulz, titled \"It Was a Dark and Stormy Night, Snoopy,\" and credited to Snoopy as author, was published by Holt, Rinehart, and Winston in 1971.\n\nIt is the opening line in the popular 1962 novel \"A Wrinkle in Time\" by Madeleine L'Engle:\n\nL'Engle biographer Leonard Marcus notes that \"With a wink to the reader, she chose for the opening line of \"A Wrinkle in Time\", her most audaciously original work of fiction, that hoariest of cliches ... L'Engle herself was certainly aware of old warhorse's literary provenance as ... Edward Bulwer-Lytton's much maligned much parodied repository of Victorian purple prose, \"Paul Clifford\". While discussing the importance of establishing the tone of voice at the beginning of fiction, Judy Morris notes that L'Engle's \"A Wrinkle in Time\" opens with \"Snoopy's signature phrase\".\n\nJoni Mitchell's song \"Crazy Cries of Love\" on her album \"Taming the Tiger\" opens with \"It was a dark and stormy night\". In the December 1998 issue of \"Musician\", Mitchell discusses her idea of using several cliche lines in the lyrics of multiple songs on the album, such as \"the old man is snoring\" in the title song \"Taming the Tiger\". Her co-lyricist, Don Fried, had read of a competition in \"The New Yorker\" to write a story opening with \"It was a dark and stormy night\" and was inspired to put it in the song lyrics. Mitchell states \n\nChristian rock/ska band Five Iron Frenzy announced their reunion in 2011 by releasing the song \"It Was a Dark and Stormy Night,\" which opens with the line. The song was included on their 2013 album, \"Engine of a Million Plots\".\n\nIn the board game titled \"It Was a Dark and Stormy Night\", contestants are given first lines of various famous novels and must guess their origin. Originally sold independently in bookstores in the Chicago area, it was later picked up by the online book reading club Goodreads.com.\n\nThe annual Bulwer-Lytton Fiction Contest was formed in 1982. The contest, sponsored by the English Department at San Jose State University, recognizes the worst examples of \"dark and stormy night\" writing. It challenges entrants to compose \"the opening sentence to the worst of all possible novels.\" The \"best\" of the resulting entries have been published in a series of paperback books, starting with \"It Was a Dark and Stormy Night\" in 1984.\n\n"}
{"id": "17037919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17037919", "title": "Kendell Geers", "text": "Kendell Geers\n\nKendell Geers is a South African conceptual artist.\n\nKendell Geers was born in Johannesburg into a white working-class Afrikaans family during the time of apartheid. \n\nBecoming aware of the political struggles in his country, he ran away from home at the age of 15 to get involved in the anti-apartheid movement. \nKendell finished his schooling at the end of 1984. At the beginning of 1985, to avoid conscription, he enrolled at the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg for a Fine Arts degree. \nIn 1988, Kendell Geers was one of 143 young men who publicly refused to serve in the South African Defence Force and faced either a life in exile or six years' imprisonment in a civilian jail. In 1989 he left South Africa and lived for a brief period in exile in the United Kingdom and New York where he worked as an assistant to artist Richard Prince. \n\nIt was only after Nelson Mandela and other political prisoners' release from prison, that Geers could return from exile to Johannesburg without fear of being imprisoned. In 1990, he returned to Johannesburg where he worked as an artist, and art critic, curator and performance artist. The first work of art he created back on South African soil was \"Bloody Hell\", a ritual washing of his white Afrikaaner Boer body with his own fresh blood. \n\nRejecting everything his family and his community stood for, in 1993 he changed his name to Kendell Geers and his date of birth to May 1968 as a political act, reclaiming his identity.\n\nHe moved to Brussels in 2003.\n\nSometimes described as a political artist, Kendell Geers is known best for using a variety of colors and materials that signal danger such as sirens, broken glass, and barbed wire in an attempt to examine power structures, social injustices, and establishment values. Geers has worked with different media ranging from objects to large scale installation, neon works, performances and video.\nGeers also uses words as a means to explore the coding and reinterpretation of language and its meaning and to communicate with his audience.\n\nHis work had heavily political elements from 1988 to 2000, during which time Geers, explored the moral and ethical contradictions of the apartheid system through his practice. He developed a visual vocabulary characterized by provocation as well as humor by using found objects such as barbed wire or glass shards. By appropriating historical events and ideas, he focused on questions of relationship between individual and society. It was in this context that Geers changed his date of birth to May 1968, the start of the student and civil revolution, and joined every political party in the period before South Africa’s first democratic elections, from the extreme right-wing to the Communist party. In this way, he expressed his doubts about the fetishization of party politics.\n\nHe participated in the Venice Biennale in 1993, the first time since the anti-Apartheid boycotts that South African artists had been invited.\n\nFrom 1999 until 2004, Geers worked as the curator and art consult for Gencor which was later bought out by BHP Billiton. The collection focused on artists and works of art that were central to the Anti-Apartheid Movement spirit. In 1997 Geers edited and published \"Contemporary South African Art,\" with essays by Okwui Enwezor, Olu Oguibe, and others.\n\nInitiated by his move to Brussels in 2000, his later European period is characterized by a more poetic aesthetic. Here, Geers transferred his incendiary practice into a post-colonial and increasingly global context, suggesting more universal themes like terrorism, spirituality, and mortality. As such, the artist’s life and work can be said to constitute a living archive composed of political events, photographs, letters, and literary texts that serve as a source of inspiration and represent a continuation of his oeuvre.\n\nIn January 2013 a Geers retrospective called \"1988-2012\" opened at the Haus der Kunst in Munich. \nThe exhibition divided his life and work into two decade-long periods, the first political phase until 2000, and the later more poetic phase.\n\nIn 2011 Geers wrote a Manifesto in which through a series of statements, he explores the link between political and natural revolutions, mourns the loss of our talent for revolution and the underlying causes, and gives us clues on how to remember our inner selves to live a more true life.\n\nTogether with musician Patrick Codenys (Front 242) Kendell Geers formed the Belgium Audio-Visual group \"thefucKINGFUCKS\" in 2007. The project grew out of the now defunct \"Red Snyper\" collaboration between Geers and Codenys.\n\nHe has exhibited globally since 1993 and participated in numerous exhibitions including Documenta, the Carnegie International, Havana Biennial, Istanbul Biennial, Kwang Ju Biennial, Taipei Biennial, Gwangju Biennale, Lyon Biennial, Glasstress at the Venice Biennale, as well as presented solo exhibitions in the CCA Cincinnati, Stedelijk Museum voor Actuele Kunst Gent, Baltic Centre for Contemporary Art, Aspen Art Museum, MOCA in Rome, Migros Museum, Palais de Tokyo, the CAC in Lyon and Haus der Kunst in Munich. The Divine Comedy. Heaven, Purgatory and Hell Revisited by Contemporary African Artists -Museum für Moderne Kunst (MMK), Frankfurt/Main, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "41139172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41139172", "title": "List of basketball shoe brands", "text": "List of basketball shoe brands\n\nBasketball shoes are footwear designed specifically for playing basketball. Special shoe designs for basketball have existed since the 1920s. This list includes major brands of basketball shoe, listed by manufacturer and year of introduction.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7916700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7916700", "title": "List of endangered languages of the Pacific", "text": "List of endangered languages of the Pacific\n\nThis is a list of endangered languages of the Pacific, based on the definitions used by UNESCO.\n\nAn endangered language is a language that it is at risk of falling out of use because there is little transmission of the language to younger generations. If a language loses all of its native speakers, it becomes an extinct language.\n\nThe UNESCO Atlas of the World's Languages in Danger lists 88 endangered languages in Indonesia.\n\nThe following languages of New Caledonia may be considered endangered.\n\nThe following Polynesian languages are considered endangered.\n"}
{"id": "53688299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53688299", "title": "Lumooja", "text": "Lumooja\n\nLumooja is a Finnish cultural and literary magazine based in Turku, Finland. It features poetry and other literary work as well as articles on arts and book reviews. \n\nThe magazine was started in 2000. The magazine is published by a Turku-based organization, Kapustarinta (The Golden Plover Association). From 2000 to 2001 Jenni Elina Haukio, the wife of Sauli Niinistö, Finnish President, was the editor of \"Lumooja\". Heidi Laine also served in the post, who was named as editor in 2007. Elina Laine is the editor-in-chief of the magazine.\n"}
{"id": "52508440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52508440", "title": "Mother's Day (Rugrats)", "text": "Mother's Day (Rugrats)\n\n\"Mother's Day\", also known as the \"Rugrats Mother's Day Special\" or \"Rugrats Mother's Day\", is the second episode of the fourth season of the American animated television series \"Rugrats\" and the show's 67th episode overall. Released as a Mother's Day special, it revolves around the holiday from the perspective of a group of babies—Tommy Pickles, Chuckie Finster, and Phil and Lil Deville. Tommy, Phil, and Lil attempt to find the perfect mother for Chuckie (who is raised only by his father Chaz) while sharing their favorite memories about their moms. At the end of the episode, Chuckie's mother is revealed to have died of a terminal illness. It concludes with Chuckie and Chaz looking through a box of her belongings, including a poem she had written for her son. Meanwhile, Didi Pickles tries to plan the perfect Mother's Day with her mom Minka, while Betty DeVille helps Stu Pickles with his invention to help mothers.\n\nNorton Virgien and Toni Vian directed the episode from a script by Jon Cooksey, Ali Marie Matheson, J. David Stem, David N. Weiss, Susan Hood, and Ed Resto. Series co-creator Paul Germain had pitched two potential storylines to explain the absence of Chuckie's mother, but Nickelodeon executives rejected his proposed ideas that the mother was either divorced from Chaz or had died. Before \"Mother's Day\" premiered, only minor references to Chuckie's mother had been made. Germain left the show in 1993, and several new writers replaced him. The concept was later revised and approved as a Mother's Day special. Germain said that he was disappointed at being unable to cover the topic during his time on the series.\n\nBroadcast on May 6, 1997, in the United States, \"Mother's Day\" was one of several half-hour specials that Nickelodeon commissioned for \"Rugrats\". The episode was featured on the 1998 VHS release \"Rugrats: Mommy Mania\", and was later made available for digital download along with the rest of the fourth season. \"Mother's Day\" was praised by critics and has been the subject of several retrospective reviews for its treatment of the death of a parent. It was also praised for its positive representation of breastfeeding and expansion on the definition of motherhood. It won the CableACE Award for Writing a Children's Special or Series, and was nominated for the Humanitas Prize for the Children's Animation Category. The series received a nomination for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Animated Program for the 49th Primetime Emmy Awards after Nickelodeon submitted \"Mother's Day\" for consideration.\n\nOn Mother's Day, toddler Angelica Pickles constructs a macaroni sculpture of her head as a present to her mother, telling the Rugrats the meaning of the holiday. After dropping off his son Chuckie, Chaz Finster gives his friend Didi Pickles a box of his wife's belongings as he fears that Chuckie will find it. Chaz does not feel he is ready to talk to Chuckie about his mother. While helping the other babies Phil and Lil DeVille and Tommy Pickles look for the perfect gifts for their mothers, Chuckie feels uncertain about how he should celebrate Mother's Day. Tommy, Phil, and Lil share their favorite memories of their mothers with Chuckie. Phil and Lil say that the best gift they gave their mom was their first laugh. Tommy reminisces about his mom comforting him while he was in a neonatal intensive care unit. The babies think of a plan to find Chuckie a new mother. Their attempts to have Tommy's dog Spike and Lil act as his mom are unsuccessful. Angelica agrees to act as Chuckie's mother only if he completes her macaroni sculpture. Meanwhile, Didi takes her mom Minka to a spa, and Betty DeVille helps Stu Pickles with his invention to help mothers.\n\nAngelica tasks Chuckie to pick a dandelion to decorate her sculpture. He is unable to obtain it after being chased by a bee and Stu's malfunctioning Mother's Day invention, which is a vacuum-like machine that destroys a majority of the lawn. After Chuckie breaks her macaroni head, Angelina orders him to stay in the closet along with Tommy, Phil, and Lil. While the babies console Chuckie, he realizes that his dad meets all the requirements of a good mother. They open Chaz's box, finding a spade, a journal of pressed flowers, and a photograph of Chuckie's mother. Meanwhile, Stu's invention continues to vacuum up mud before finally exploding inside the house. Didi is disappointed that Minka did not like the spa, but Minka says she only wanted to spend time with her daughter for Mother's Day. Chuckie gives Chaz the picture of his mother as a Mother's Day present. Chaz decides to talk to Chuckie about his mother, telling him that his mother died of a terminal illness shortly after his birth. He explains that she wrote the diary while she was in the hospital, and reads a poem aloud that she wrote for Chuckie. The mother narrates the poem during a flashback to when she played with Chuckie in the backyard. As they play in the backyard, the episode ends with Chuckie telling his friends that his mother is all around in him in nature.\n\nThe 23-minute and 46-second episode was written by Jon Cooksey, Ali Marie Matheson, J. David Stem, David N. Weiss, Susan Hood, and Ed Resto. Directed by Norton Virgien and Toni Vian, it was produced by the animation studio Klasky Csupo Productions, a part of Nickelodeon Animation Studio. Cella Nichols Duffy, Gabor Csupo, Arlene Klasky, Paul De Meyer, Stem, and Weiss also produced the episode. Mark Mothersbaugh and Ruby Andrews contributed to the music. In 2016, co-creator Paul Germain revealed that the concept for the episode, and the discussion about the status of Chuckie's mother, was previously pitched to Nickelodeon executives. She was not included in the first season to avoid the need to animate a completely new character. During the production of the show's second and third seasons, Germain noticed that questions about the character's absence became more prominent. He consulted with fellow co-creator Arlene Klasky, and they concluded that the only two possible ways to address the character was that she was divorced from Chaz, or had died before the series' debut.\n\nGermain and Klasky initially planned to portray the character as divorced, but Nickelodeon executives rejected the idea, feeling that the subject would be inappropriate for younger viewers. The studio also vetoed a reveal that the mother was dead, contending that such an idea would be \"scary\" and that \"children [would not] want to see that.\" Germain stated this prevented them from saying much about the character in earlier seasons, adding: \"We mention that she exists but we don't tell you what happened to her. We even made a joke out of it in one episode. But we weren't allowed to go into the subject.\" Even when the show did portray Chuckie's mother as having died from a terminal illness, the word \"dead\" was never used by any of the characters. The character had been briefly mentioned before in the episodes \"Real or Robots?\" (1991), \"Chuckie vs. the Potty\" (1992), and \"My Friend Barney\" (1993).\n\nGermain left the series in 1993, and several new writers replaced him. At that time, Nickelodeon permitted the writers and animators to include a storyline about the death of Chuckie's mother. The development of the \"Rugrats\" Mother's Day television special was announced on December 7, 1996. Kim Cattrall provided the voice for Chuckie's mother, Melinda Finster. Germain described the episode as \"this whole very maudlin thing,\" and said that he was disappointed over his inability to cover the topic. He explained: \"I just sat there thinking, 'We weren't allowed to do this, and now you guys are doing it.' That's something I regret.\" Mary Harrington, a supervising producer of animation for Nickelodeon, described it as one of her favorite episodes of \"Rugrats\", and commended the writers and producers for their handling of the subject matter.\n\n\"Mother's Day\", also promoted as \"Rugrats Mother's Day Special\", was originally broadcast in the United States at 8:00 p.m. Eastern Time on May 6, 1997 on Nickelodeon. The \"Los Angeles Times\" Lee Margulies recommended the special as appropriate for children between the ages of four and eight. The episode was one of several half-hour specials created for \"Rugrats\", with others including \"The Santa Experience\" (1992), \"A Rugrats Passover\" (1993/1995) and \"A Rugrats Chanukah\" (1996). According to writer Jeff Lenburg, the show's specials, including \"Mother's Day\", earned high ratings.\n\n\"Mother's Day\" was featured on the VHS release \"Rugrats: Mommy Mania\", which came out on January 4, 1998\".\" It was included on the 2011 DVD package of the show's fourth season, with the press release listing it as one of the \"special episodes\". A writer from DVD Talk argued that the episode should also have been featured on the 2004 DVD release \"Rugrats Holiday Celebration\" given the lack of content on the collection's second disc. The releases were distributed by Viacom. The episode was later made purchasable as a digital download on the iTunes Store and Amazon Video, along with the rest of the fourth season. It is also available on streaming video on demand services, such as Hulu.\n\nIn 1998, Eric Schmuckler of \"The New York Times\" pointed to the \"Mother's Day\" special as an example of the show's balance between featuring an \"always sunny and usually silly\" tone while also being \"poignant\". Schmuckler described Chaz's interactions with Chuckie as \"an age-appropriate version of the loss of his mother\". \"Rugrats\" was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Animated Program for the 49th Primetime Emmy Awards, after Nickelodeon submitted the special for consideration, but lost to \"The Simpsons\". The episode was also nominated for the Humanitas Prize for the Children's Animation Category in 1998, which went to the \"Life with Louie\" episode \"Blinded by Love\". Jon Cooksey, Ali Marie Matheson, J. David Stem, and David N. Weiss received the CableACE Award for Writing a Children's Special or Series for their contributions to the episode.\n\n\"Mother's Day\" has been the subject of several retrospective reviews of the series. Philip Lewis of Arts.Mic praised the episode as an example of Nickelodeon's potential to cover a serious subject, noting its treatment of \"the loss of a parent\" as one of the series' most memorable moments. Moviepilot's Kristy Anderson wrote that the development of Chuckie's backstory was a surprise as \"[f]ew would have expected to be confronted by the topic of death while watching a cartoon about babies\". In their book \"Flickipedia: Perfect Films for Every Occasion, Holiday, Mood, Ordeal, and Whim\", authors Michael Atkinson and Laurel Shifrin echoed Anderson's sentiment, commenting that the episode could \"hit you like a truck if you let it\".\n\n\"Mother's Day\" has been cited in several lists of commentators' favorite episodes or moments from \"Rugrats\". Anderson placed it on her list of must-watch episodes from the show's third, fourth, and fifth seasons, suggesting that \"[y]ou will need tissues\". The poem written and narrated by Chuckie's mother was praised by Moviepilot's Daniel Pearson, and was included in a list of the top eight most heartfelt moments in animated television by Mara Mullikin of the same publication. Victor Beigelman of A Plus put the episode on his list of seven Mother's Day-themed television episodes, citing it as a \"heavy dose of nostalgia\".\n\nCritics have also commented on other aspects of the episode. In 2016, Caroline Bologna from \"The Huffington Post\" praised the episode for showing \"a joyful depiction of breastfeeding\" and for normalizing it to a wider audience. Bologna contrasted the scene with the lack of images of breastfeeding in contemporary children's television, writing that the show had a \"positive legacy\" and proved that \"this topic was deemed perfectly suitable for a children's show 20 years ago\". Priscilla Blossom of the motherhood website Romper.com also praised the scene as addressing reproductive health, along with the portrayal of Tommy's premature birth and time in a neonatal intensive care unit. In their 2013 essay \"What Is a Mother? Gay and Lesbian Perspectives on Parenting\", scholars Jack Drescher, Deborah F. Glazer, Lee Crespi, and David Schwartz analyzed \"Mother's Day\" as an extension of psychoanalyst Donald Winnicott's theories on early childhood. They highlighted Chuckie's realization that his father acts like a mother as \"a moment of postmodern insight\" that expands the definition of motherhood.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12763035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12763035", "title": "National Pledge (India)", "text": "National Pledge (India)\n\nThe National Pledge is an oath of allegiance to the Republic of India. It is commonly recited by Indians in unison at public events, especially in schools, and during the Independence Day and Republic Day celebrations. It is commonly found printed in the opening pages of school textbooks and calendars. It is recited in the morning assembly of most Indian schools. However, Pledge is not part of Indian Constitution.\n\nThe pledge was originally composed in Telugu language by writer Pydimarri Venkata Subba Rao in 1962. It was first read out in a school in Visakhapatnam in 1963 and was subsequently translated into various regional languages. \n\nThe Indian national pledge was composed by Pydimarri Venkata Subba Rao. Subbarao, a noted author in Telugu and a bureaucrat, composed the pledge while serving as the District Treasury Officer of Visakhapatnam District in 1962. He presented it to the senior Congress leader Tenneti Viswanadam who forwarded it to the then Education Minister P.V.G. Raju. Subba Rao was born in Anneparti, Nalgonda District, Telangana. He was an expert in Telugu, Sanskrit, Hindi, English, Arabic languages. He worked as Treasury officer in the state of Hyderabad. After the formation of AP, He worked in Khammam, Nizamabad, Nellore, Visakhapatnam, Nalgonda Districts. The Pledge was introduced in many schools in 1963.\n\nThe Indian National Pledge is commonly recited by Indians at public events, during daily assemblies in many Indian schools, and during the Independence Day and Republic Day commemoration ceremonies. Unlike the National Anthem or the National Song, whose authors are well known in India, P.V. Subbarao, the author of the pledge remains largely a little-known figure, his name being mentioned neither in the books nor in any documents. Records with the Human Resources Development Ministry of the Government of India however record Subbarao as the author of the pledge. Subbarao himself is thought to have been unaware of its status as the National Pledge with a position on par with the National Anthem and the National Song. Apparently, he came to know about this when his granddaughter was reading the pledge from her textbook.\n\nIndia is my country. All Indians are my brothers and sisters. \nI love my country and I am proud of its rich and varied heritage. \nI shall always strive to be worthy of it. \nI shall give my parents, teachers and all elders respect and treat everyone with courtesy. \nTo my country and my people, I pledge my devotion. \nIn their well being and prosperity alone, lies my happiness. \n\n1. Assamese \nভাৰত মোৰ দেশ। \nসকলো ভাৰতীয় মোৰ ভাই-ভনী। \nমই মোৰ দেশক ভাল পাওঁ‌। \nইয়াৰ চহকী আৰু বৈচিত্ৰ্যপূৰ্ণ সংস্কৃতিক লৈ মই গৌৰৱান্বিত। \nমই সদায় ইয়াৰ সুযোগ্য অধিকাৰী হ'বলৈ যত্ন কৰি যাম। \nমই মোৰ মা, দেউতা, শিক্ষাগুৰু আৰু বয়োজ্যেষ্ঠসকলক শ্ৰদ্ধা আৰু সন্মানসহকাৰে ব্যৱহাৰ কৰিম। \nমই মোৰ দেশ আৰু দেশবাসীৰ প্ৰতি সত্যনিষ্ঠাৰে প্ৰতিজ্ঞাবদ্ধ। \nতেখেতলোকৰ কল্যাণ আৰু সমৃদ্ধিতেই মই সুখী। \n\n2. Bengali / Bangla \nভারত আমার দেশ।\nসব ভারতবাসী আমার ভাই বোন।\nআমি আমার দেশ কে ভালোবাসি।\nআমার দেশের বিবিধ সংস্কৃতিতে আমি গর্বিত।\nআমি, আমার দেশের সুযোগ্য অধিকারী হওয়ার জন্য সদা প্রচেষ্টায় থাকবো। \nআমি নিজের মা, বাবা, শিক্ষক এবং গুরুজনদের সদা সম্মান করবো। এবং বিনীত থাকবো। \nআমি আমার দেশ ও দেশবাসীদের প্রতি সত্যনিষ্ঠার প্রতিজ্ঞাবদ্ধ হলাম। এঁদের কল্যাণ এবং সমৃদ্ধি তেই আমার সুখ বিলীন। <br>\n\n3. Gujarati \nભારત મારો દેશ છે.\nબધા ભારતીયો મારા ભાઈ બહેનો છે.\nહું મારા દેશને ચાહું છું અને તેના સમૃદ્ધ અને \nવૈવિધ્યપૂર્ણ વારસાનો મને ગર્વ છે.\nહું સદાય તેને લાયક બનવા પ્રયત્ન કરીશ. \nહું મારા માતાપિતા શિક્ષકો અને વડીલો પ્રત્યે આદર રાખીશ \nઅને દરેક જણ સાથે સભ્યતાથી વર્તીશ. \nહું મારા દેશ અને દેશબાંધવોને મારી નિષ્ઠા અર્પું છું. \nતેમના કલ્યાણ અને સમૃદ્ધિમાં જ મારું સુખ રહ્યું છે. \n\n4. Hindi \nभारत मेरा देश है। \nसब भारतवासी मेरे भाई-बहन है। \nमैं अपने देश से प्रेम करता/करती हूं। \nइसकी समृद्ध एवं विविध संस्कृति पर मुझे गर्व है। \nमैं सदा इसका सुयोग्य अधिकारी बनने का प्रयत्न करता/करती रहूँगा/रहूँगी। \nमैं अपने माता-पिता, शिक्षको एवं गुरुजनो का सम्मान करूँगा/करूँगी और प्रत्येक के साथ विनीत रहूँगा/रहूँगी। \nमैं अपने देश और देशवाशियों के प्रति सत्यनिष्ठा की प्रतिज्ञा करता/करती हूँ। \nइनके कल्याण एवं समृद्धि में ही मेरा सुख निहित है। \n\n5. Kannada \nಭಾರತ ನನ್ನ ತಾಯಿನಾಡು. \nಎಲ್ಲಾ ಭಾರತೀಯರು ನನ್ನ ಸಹೋದರರು ಮತ್ತು ಸಹೋದರಿಯರು. \nನಾನು ನನ್ನ ದೇಶವನ್ನು ಪ್ರೀತಿಸುತ್ತೇನೆ ಮತ್ತು ನನ್ನ ದೇಶದ ಶ್ರೀಮಂತ ಮತ್ತು ವಿವಿಧ ಪರಂಪರೆಯ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಹೆಮ್ಮೆಪಡುತ್ತೇನೆ. \nನಾನು ಯಾವಾಗಲೂ ಅದಕ್ಕೋಸ್ಕರ ಶ್ರಮಿಸುತ್ತೇನೆ. \nನನ್ನ ಪೋಷಕರಿಗೆ, ಶಿಕ್ಷಕರಿಗೆ ಮತ್ತು ಎಲ್ಲಾ ಹಿರಿಯರರಿಗೆ ಗೌರವಿಸುತ್ತೇನೆ ಮತ್ತು ಎಲ್ಲರೊಂದಿಗೆ ಸೌಜನ್ಯದಿಂದ ವರ್ತಿಸುತ್ತೇನೆ. \nನನ್ನ ದೇಶ ಮತ್ತು ಜನರಿಗೆ, ನನ್ನ ಬದ್ಧತೆಯ ವಾಗ್ದಾನ ಮಾಡುತ್ತೇನೆ. \nಅವರ ಯೋಗಕ್ಷೇಮದ ಮತ್ತು ಅಭ್ಯುದಯದಲ್ಲಿ ನನ್ನ ಸಂತೋಷ ನೆಲೆಸಿದೆ. \n\n6. Kokborok \nBarot chini ha. \nTei barot hani jotto borok rog ani takhuk tei bukhuk. \nAng ani hano hamjakgo tei ang bini rangchak hai tei juda-juda Hukumu no twii kungchukgo. \nAng o hani chuknaisa borok wng manna bagwi chaitok phwlai mang tongnai.\nAng ani ma-pha, ano phwrwngnai rog, tei ani okra-chakra rogno borom rwi mang tongnai tei jotto bai'no kaham tongmung tongnai. \nAni ha tei ani borok rogni bagwi,\nO ha hamkwraini lamao phasing thang tongtun.\nBorog ni Hamkwrai'o no ani tongthok hwnwi ang swmai thango.\n\n7. Malayalam \nഭാരതം എന്റെ നാടാണ്.\nഎല്ലാ ഭാരതീയരും എന്റെ സഹോദരീസഹോദരന്മാരാണ്‌. \nഞാൻ എന്റെ രാജ്യത്തെ സ്നേഹിക്കുന്നു. \nസമ്പന്നവും വൈവിദ്ധ്യപൂർണവുമായ അതിന്റെ പരമ്പരാഗതസമ്പത്തിൽ ഞാൻ അഭിമാനിക്കുന്നു. \nആ സമ്പത്തിന് അർഹനാകുവാൻ ഞാൻ എപ്പോഴും ശ്രമിക്കുന്നതാണ്. \nഞാൻ എന്റെ മാതാപിതാക്കളെയും ഗുരുജനങ്ങളെയും മുതിർന്നവരെയും ആദരിക്കുകയും - \nഎല്ലാവരോടും വിനയപൂർവം പെരുമാറുകയും ചെയ്യും. \nഞാൻ എന്റെ നാടിനോടും എന്റെ നാട്ടുകാരോടും സേവാനിരതനായിരുക്കുമെന്ന് പ്രതിജ്ഞ ചെയ്യുന്നു. \nഎന്റെ നാടിന്റെയും നാട്ടുകാരുടെയും ക്ഷേമത്തിലും അഭിവൃദ്ധിയിലുമാണ് എന്റെ ആനന്ദം. \n\n8. Marathi (मराठी)\nभारत माझा देश आहे. \nसारे भारतीय माझे बांधव आहेत. \nमाझ्या देशावर माझे प्रेम आहे. \nमाझ्या देशातल्या समृद्ध आणि \nविविधतेने नटलेल्या परंपरांचा मला अभिमान आहे. \nत्या परंपरांचा पाईक होण्याची पात्रता \nमाझ्या अंगी यावी म्हणून मी सदैव प्रयत्न करीन. \nमी माझ्या पालकांचा, गुरुजनांचा \nआणि वडीलधार्‍या माणसांचा मान ठेवीन \nआणि प्रत्येकाशी सौजन्याने वागेन. \nमाझा देश आणि माझे देशबांधव \nयांच्याशी निष्ठा राखण्याची \nमी प्रतिज्ञा करीत आहे. \nत्यांचे कल्याण आणि \nत्यांची समृद्धी ह्यांतच माझे \nसौख्य सामावले आहे. \n\n9. Nepali (नेपाली)\nभारत मेरो देश हो । \nसबै भारतवासी मेरा दाजुभाई तथा दिदीबहिनी हुन् । \nम आफ्नो देशलाई माया गर्छु । \nयसको समृध्द र विविध संस्कृतिमा मलाई गर्व छ । \nम सधै यसको सुयोग्य अधिकारी बन्ने प्रयत्न गरिरहने छु । \nम आफ्नो आमा बुवा, शिक्षक एवं गुरुजनहरुलाई सम्मान गर्नेछु र प्रत्येक संग विनित रहन्छु । \nम आफ्नो देश र देशवासीहरु प्रति सत्यनिष्ठाको प्रतिज्ञा गर्दछु । \nयिनको कल्याण र समृद्धिमा नै मेरो सुख निहित छ ।\n\n10. Odia\nଭାରତ ମୋର ଦେଶ ।\nଆମେ ସଵୁ ଭାରତୀୟ ଭାଇ ଓ ଭଉଣୀ ।\nମୁଁ ମୋ ଦେଶକୁ ଭଲ ପାଏ ।\nଏହାର ସମୃଦ୍ଧି ଏବଂ ବିବିଧ ସଂସ୍କୃତି ପାଇଁ ମୋତେ ଗର୍ଵ ଲାଗେ ।\nମୁଁ ସଵୁଵେଳେ ଏହାର ସୁଯୋଗ୍ୟ ଅଧୀକାରୀ ରହିଵାକୁ ଚେଷ୍ଟା କରିବି ।\nମୁଁ ମୋର ମାତା ପିତା, ଶିକ୍ଷକ ଏବଂ ଗୁରୁଜନ ମାନଙ୍କୁ ସମ୍ମାନ ଜଣାଇଵି ଓ ସମସ୍ତଙ୍କ ସହିତ ସୌଜନ୍ୟଶୀଳ ରହିବି ।\nମୁଁ ମୋର ଦେଶ ଓ ଦେଶବାସୀଙ୍କ ପ୍ରତି ସତ୍ୟନିଷ୍ଠ ରହିବାକୁ ପ୍ରତିଞ୍ଗା କରୁଛି।\nସେମାନଙ୍କ କଲ୍ୟାଣ ଓ ସମୃଦ୍ଧିରେ ମୋର ସୁଖ ନିହିତ ।\n\n11. Sanskrit \nभारतं मम देशोऽयं भारतीयाश्च बान्धवाः। \nपरानुरक्तिरस्मिन्‌ मे देशेऽस्ति मम सर्वदा ॥ १॥ \nसमृद्धा विविधाश्चास्य या देशस्य परम्पराः। \nसन्ति ताः प्रति मे नित्यमभिमानोन्नतं शिरः ॥ २॥ \nप्रयतिष्ये सदा चाहमासादयितुमर्हताम्‌ । \nयेन तासां भविष्यामि श्रद्धायुक्तः पदानुगः ॥ ३॥ \nसंमानयेयं पितरौ वयोज्येष्ठान्‌ गुरूंस्तथा। \nसौजन्येनैव वर्तेय तथा सर्वैरहं सदा ॥ ४॥ \nस्वकीयेन हि देशेन स्वदेशीयैश्च बान्धवैः। \nएकान्तनिष्ठमाचारं प्रतिजाने हि सर्वथा ॥ ५॥ \nएतेषामेव कल्याणे समुत्कर्षे तथैव च । \nनूनं विनिहितं सर्वं सौख्यमात्यन्तिकं मम ॥६॥ \n\n12. Tamil \nஇந்திய நாடு என் நாடு. \nஇந்தியர்கள் அனைவரும் என் சகோதர சகோதரிகள். \nஎன் நாட்டை நான் மிகவும் நேசிக்கிறேன். \nஎன் நாட்டின் பழம்பெருமைக்காகவும் ,பண்முக மரபு சிறப்பிற்காகவும் நான் பெருமிதம் கொள்கிறேன். \nஎன் நாட்டின் பெருமைக்கு தகுந்து விளங்கிட பெரிதும் பாடுபடுவேன். \nஎனது பெற்றோர் ,ஆசிரியர் மற்றும் பெரியோர்களை மதித்து நடந்து கொள்வேன். \nஅனைவரிடமும் அன்பும் மரியாதையும் காட்டுவேன் \nஎன் நாட்டிற்கும் நாட்டு மக்களுக்கும் உழைத்திட பெரிதும் முனைந்து நிற்பேன் \nஎன் மக்கள் அனைவரும் நலமும் வளமும் பெறுவதிலே தான் நான் மகிழ்ச்சி அடைகிறேன். \nவாழ்க நமது மணித்திரு நாடு. \n\n13. Telugu \nభారతదేశము నా మాతృభూమి. \nభారతీయులందరు నా సహోదరులు, నా సహొదరణీలు. \nనేను నా దేశమును ప్రేమించుచున్నాను. సుసంపన్నమైన, బహువిధమైన, నాదేశ వారసత్వసంపద నాకు గర్వకారణము. \nదీనికి అర్హత పొందుటకై సర్వదా నేను కృషి చేయుదును. \nనా తల్లిదండ్రులను, ఉపాధ్యాయులను, పెద్దలందరిని గౌరవింతును. \nప్రతివారితోను మర్యాదగా నడచుకొందును. \nనా దేశముపట్లను, నా ప్రజలపట్లను సేవానిరతి కలిగియుందునని ప్రతిజ్ఞ చేయుచున్నాను. \nవారి శ్రేయస్సు, అభివృద్ధులే నా ఆనందమునకు మూలము. \n\n14. Urdu ()<br>\nThe National Pledge is recited in schools during assemblies, the Independence Day, Republic Day, and other traditional or lawful ceremonies.\n\n"}
{"id": "14120220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14120220", "title": "Neuroarthistory", "text": "Neuroarthistory\n\nNeuroarthistory is a term coined by Professor John Onians, an art historian at the University of East Anglia in 2005. Neuroarthistory is an approach that concerns the neurological study of artists, both living and dead.\n\nIn 2004 Onians taught the Postgraduate module \"Art and the Brain\" named after the 1999 paper by Professor Semir Zeki which was the first postgraduate course in an art history department that applied neuroscientific principles. In 2005, he began working with Zeki, who is a professor of Neurobiology at University College London (and founder of Neuroesthetics) to study what goes on in the brains of artists. They used neuroimaging and studied the neurobiological processes of artists such as the painters of the paleolithic Chauvet Cave art.\n\nIn May 2005 Onians founded Neuroarthistory in a lecture at the Neuroaesthetics Conference Goldsmiths May 2005. \nIn 2006, he wrote and presented the paper 'Neuroarthistory: making more sense of art' which, according to The Art Book \"explored the ways in which our ever-expanding knowledge of the brain invites art historians to reconsider the interaction between the senses and cognition.\"\n\nIn September 2006, Onians presented the results of the research to the BA Festival of Science in a lecture called 'Cracking the real Da Vinci Code: what happens in the artist’s brain?'. The object of the study was to learn more about how artists think, and how these thought processes differ between artists of different eras and locations, as well as the differences between professional and amateur artists. Professor Onians has said that neuroarthistory can be used \"both to better understand the nature of familiar artistic phenomena such as style, and to crack so far intractable problems such as ‘what is the origin of art?’\" According to a press release, neuroarthistory can explain why \"Florentine painters made more use of line and Venetian painters more of colour. The reason is that 'neural plasticity' ensured that passive exposure to different natural and man-made environments caused the formation of different visual preferences.\"\n\nA book, \"Neuroarthistory: From Aristotle and Pliny to Baxandall and Zeki\" was published in 2008 by Yale University Press, discussing a number of case studies from art history, and being the 'preface' to a further two books on the subject. \n"}
{"id": "385549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=385549", "title": "Polemic", "text": "Polemic\n\nA polemic () is contentious rhetoric that is intended to support a specific position by aggressive claims and undermining of the opposing position. Polemics are mostly seen in arguments about controversial topics. The practice of such argumentation is called \"polemics\". A person who often writes polemics, or who speaks polemically, is called a \"polemicist\". The word is derived , .\n\nPolemics often concern issues in religion or politics. A polemic style of writing was common in Ancient Greece, as in the writings of the historian Polybius. Polemic again became common in medieval and early modern times. Since then, famous polemicists have included the satirist Jonathan Swift, Christian anarchist Leo Tolstoy, the socialist philosophers Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, the novelist George Orwell, the psycholinguist Noam Chomsky, the social critic Christopher Hitchens, the existential philosopher Søren Kierkegaard, and Friedrich Nietzsche, author of \"On the Genealogy of Morality: A Polemic\".\n\nPolemics are usually addressed to important issues in religion and politics. Polemic journalism was common in continental Europe at a time when libel laws were not as stringent as they are now. To support the study of the controversies of the 17th–19th centuries, a British research project has placed online thousands of polemical pamphlets from that era. \n\nDiscussions around atheism, humanism and Christianity have remained capable of polemic into the 21st century; for example, in 2007 Brian McClinton argued in \"Humani\" that anti-religious books such as Richard Dawkins's \"The God Delusion\" are part of the polemic tradition. The humanist philosopher A. C. Grayling published a book titled \"Against All Gods: Six Polemics on Religion and an Essay on Kindness\" in 2008.\n\nIn Ancient Greece, writing was characterised by what Geoffrey Lloyd and Nathan Sivin called \"strident adversariality\" and \"rationalistic aggressiveness\", summed up by McClinton as polemic. For example, the ancient historian Polybius practised \"quite bitter self-righteous polemic\" against some twenty philosophers, orators, and historians.\n\nPolemical writings were common in medieval and early modern times. During the Middle Ages, polemic had a religious dimension, as in Jewish texts written to protect and dissuade Jewish communities from converting to other religions. Medieval Christian writings were also often polemical; for example in their disagreements on Islam. Martin Luther's 95 Theses, famously nailed to the door of the church in Wittenburg, was a powerful polemic launched against the Catholic Church. Robert Carliell's 1619 defence of the new Church of England and diatribe against the Roman Catholic Church – \"Britaine's glorie, or An allegoricall dreame with the exposition thereof: containing The Heathens infidelitie in religion...\" – took the form of a 250-line poem.\n\nMajor political polemicists of the 18th century include Jonathan Swift, with pamphlets such as his \"A Modest Proposal\", and Edmund Burke, with his attack on the Duke of Bedford.\n\nIn the 19th century, Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels's 1848 \"Communist Manifesto\" was extremely polemical. Friedrich Engels's famous work Anti-Dühring was also a polemic against Eugen Dühring.\n\nIn the 20th century, George Orwell's \"Animal Farm\" was a polemic against totalitarianism, in particular of Stalinism in the Soviet Union. According to McClinton, other prominent polemicists of the same century include such diverse figures as Herbert Marcuse, Noam Chomsky, John Pilger and Michael Moore.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6600698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6600698", "title": "Rainbow War", "text": "Rainbow War\n\nRainbow War is an 1985 Oscar-nominated 19-minute animated/live action short film created for Expo 86, the 1986 World's Fair in Vancouver, BC. It was directed by Bob Rogers and cinematography was done by Reed Smoot.\n\nNotable cast members include Ryan Stiles and Colin Mochrie of \"Whose Line is it Anyway\" fame. \n\nOnce upon a time, in a timeless place, there were three kingdoms: one blue, one red, and one gold. In the blue kingdom, everything was blue, because blue was beautiful. And besides, \"everyone\" who was \"anyone\" loved blue. In the red land, everything was red, because they trusted red, but they were afraid of everything else. The golden kingdom was dominated by yellow. Other colours were to be eliminated on sight. Blue and red were censored, covered up, thus yellow reigned supreme.\n\nBut it really didn't matter if the kingdoms didn't like each other, for, you see, travel between the kingdoms was impossible. So they never came into contact. In isolation, each kingdom taught its young what to like and dislike. Other ideas were discouraged, but it couldn't last forever. In time, there came a new idea... a moving new idea... and the world would never be the same! \nIn the Golden kingdom, a young boy creates a flying golden ring, large enough to carry a man. Using it, he leaves the Golden kingdom to explore the other lands. The Blue king sees him in his ring, leaving a trail of yellow light through the air, and gets an idea of his own; a blue hot air balloon, which his people can also use to visit the other lands! After he has seen enough of the Blue kingdom, the Yellow boy lands in the Red kingdom, and falls in love with the Red princess, and she with him. He gives her his golden scarf, and in return, she gives him a red flower. When the Red guards see this yellow intruder, they attempt to detain him, but he escapes on his golden ring, and heads back to the Golden kingdom.\nUpon arriving, the Yellow queen hails him as a hero. But when he offers the red flower to her, she is offended, and the Yellow guards take the boy away. The Yellow queen then realizes that with the golden rings the boy has created, she can invade the other kingdoms.\n\nBack in the Red kingdom, the princess looks at the Golden Kingdom in the sky, pining for the Yellow boy. The Red king is concerned though, and does not approve of her feelings for him, as he fears for her safety. The Red king is then called away, and through a giant red telescope, he spots the Blue Kingdom and Golden Kingdom's soldiers and leaders coming to his land... with paintbrushes! He rallies his men, and they prepare for war.\n\nThe Blue king is the first to arrive. The Red king peers at him through a periscope below the surface, and the Blue king smiles into it, offering to trade with the Reds. The periscope squirts him with red paint. Outraged at this treachery, the Blues retaliate, and begin to paint everything in sight blue. They then meet the Golden army, and their queen. The Blue king attempts to be diplomatic with them, but despite his many offers (A blue necklace, flowers, and a nightie), he only offends the queen and they attack, resulting in a very colorful three-way paint battle for supremacy between the Red, Blue, and Yellow army.\nMeanwhile, in the Golden Kingdom, the Yellow boy is being forced to make golden rings for the army. He manages to outsmart the slavemaster though, and escapes. Back at the front, the battle is still going colorful and strong. But when a volley of blue and yellow paint collides, \"green\" is created, and the soldiers from both sides stop fighting, very interested and happy at what they have created. The Golden queen will have none of it however, and commands her troops to continue fighting. The battle resumes. The Red army, using a giant fire hydrant, coats the whole area with red paint, and when it mixes with the other paints on the field, they discover orange and purple, and the soldiers from all sides again are entranced and overjoyed over these new ideas.\nHowever, all the fighting has not just created a huge mess. It has also created real danger. While standing on a bridge, the Red princess falls into the river, which is now flowing with paint from all three kingdoms. Before she can fall into the void between the worlds, she grabs the branch of a cliffside tree. When they see what their stupid war has caused, the soldiers of all three kingdoms throw down their paintbrushes and join forces to reach the princess. But as the Blue sentry reaches out to her and she attempts to reach out to him, the tree branch cracks, and she falls screaming into the void along with the colorful runoff of the battle.\nBut just in time, the Yellow boy soars through the air on his ring, saving the princess, and splashing through the paint waterfall in the process. Now the ring leaves a trail of all colors, both primary and secondary, and the soldiers and kings are overjoyed at the sight of the very first rainbow, not to mention the rescue of the princess. The Blue King, though he looks skeptical at first at the rainbow, slowly smiles in appreciation of its beauty. The Yellow queen still wants to wage war, and once again commands her troops to keep fighting, but they ignore her commands and splash her with all the paint colors, thus deposing her as ruler. All celebrate, and the Blue King even has a rainbow painted on his clothes as they rejoice together.\n\nIn the aftermath, all sides celebrate, trading colors with each other, combining their colors to make new colors, and reveling in the beauty of colors in harmony. Rainbow bridges are created to connect the three kingdoms, a symbol of the beauty that is created when all people come together. The Rainbow War has ended, and all kingdoms now live together, happily ever after. \n"}
{"id": "41674306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41674306", "title": "Roseto effect", "text": "Roseto effect\n\nThe Roseto effect is the phenomenon by which a close-knit community experiences a reduced rate of heart disease. The effect is named for Roseto, Pennsylvania. The Roseto effect was first noticed in 1961 when the local Roseto doctor encountered Dr. Stewart Wolf, then head of Medicine of the University of Oklahoma, and they discussed, over a couple of beers, the unusually low rate of myocardial infarction in the Italian American community of Roseto compared with other locations. Many studies followed, including a 50-year study comparing Roseto to nearby Bangor. As the original authors had predicted, as the Roseto cohort shed their Italian social structure and became more Americanized in the years following the initial study, heart disease rates increased, becoming similar to those of neighboring towns.\n\nFrom 1954 to 1961, Roseto had nearly no heart attacks for the otherwise high-risk group of men 55 to 64, and men over 65 had a death rate of 1% while the national average was 2%. Widowers outnumbered widows, as well.\n\nThese statistics were at odds with a number of other factors observed in the community. They smoked unfiltered stogies, drank wine \"with seeming abandon\" in lieu of milk and soft drinks, skipped the Mediterranean diet in favor of meatballs and sausages fried in lard with hard and soft cheeses. The men worked in the slate quarries where they contracted illnesses from gases and dust. Roseto also had no crime, and very few applications for public assistance.\n\nWolf attributed Rosetans' lower heart disease rate to lower stress. \"'The community,' Wolf says, 'was very cohesive. There was no keeping up with the Joneses. Houses were very close together, and everyone lived more or less alike.'\" Elders were revered and incorporated into community life. Housewives were respected, and fathers ran the families.\n"}
{"id": "43103976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43103976", "title": "Saint Valentine's Key", "text": "Saint Valentine's Key\n\nSaint Valentine’s key is a charm used in the province of Padua, Italy. It is a metal key named after Saint Valentine, the patron saint of love and marriage, but also believed to offer a cure for epilepsy, traditionally known as \"Saint Valentine's Malady\". It was once common in southern Germany, eastern Switzerland, Austria, and northern Italy to appeal to him to heal the latter condition, known for that reason as Saint Valentine's affliction.\n\nThe key is gifted as a romantic symbol and an invitation to \"unlock the giver's heart\".\n\nIn a ceremony at the Oratorio di San Giorgio, a small chapel in Monselice, Padua, on Saint Valentine's Day each year, small golden keys are given to children to ward off epilepsy.\n\nA special ceremony where children are given small golden Saint Valentine's keys to ward off epilepsy is held at the St. George's Oratory, Padua, a small chapel in Monselice, Padua, on February 14, each year.\n"}
{"id": "16266637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16266637", "title": "Sherlock Holmes in New York", "text": "Sherlock Holmes in New York\n\nSherlock Holmes in New York is a 1976 American made-for-television mystery film about Sherlock Holmes and Doctor Watson, played by Roger Moore and Patrick Macnee respectively.\n\nDespite the film's title the production was shot entirely in Southern California at the 20th Century-Fox lot in West Los Angeles, with some scenes filmed at the Mayfair Music Hall in Santa Monica.\n\nThe great detective Sherlock Holmes and his trusted companion Dr. John Watson travel to New York City to investigate a recent threat made by Professor Moriarty.\n\nDuring their investigation, Holmes and Watson are reunited with their old acquaintance Irene Adler, now a popular music-hall singer, who reveals that Moriarty has kidnapped her son. Moriarty has also left a note for Holmes informing him that he will be approached by the police soon for aid in a crime, and should he not refuse – Moriarty also informing him that he should provide no reason for his refusal – the boy will die.\n\nHolmes is subsequently contacted by the NYPD regarding the recent apparent theft of the international gold exchange at the New York bank, with the entire vault of gold bars having vanished seemingly overnight, the theft only secret until a planned transaction between Italy and Germany in three days' time. To protect the child, Holmes refuses the case, but a chance comment by Watson inspires Holmes to shift his attention to finding Scott to remove the blackmail card. While Watson departs with Irene disguised as Holmes to draw away the agent Moriarty has assigned to watch him, Holmes determines that Scott was tricked into cooperating with the kidnapping as an apparent joke, allowing him to find the kidnapper.\n\nInvestigating the vaults, and quickly ruling as impossible the actual removal of many tonnes of gold via a narrow tunnel in the time available, Holmes swiftly determines what has taken place; based on the speed of the lift's descent, it should take them 45 seconds to reach the vaults, but they stopped after only 42 seconds. From this, Holmes deduces that Moriarty had an empty, duplicate vault built a few meters above the real one, subsequently planting iron bars to stop the lift reaching the real vault. While everyone puzzled over how the bars of gold were stolen from the false vault, Moriarty would actually be stealing them from the real one below. In a final confrontation in New York's underground, Moriarty escapes.\n\nThe case is solved. As Holmes and Adler say their goodbyes, Adler comments that her son has a keen intellect and a certain knack for solving puzzles, implying that Holmes may be his father. The two nevertheless part ways with Adler giving Holmes a picture of her son to keep.\n\n\nThe film was scored by Richard Rodney Bennett, marking his first work for American television; Leonard Rosenman conducted. On October 9, 2006, Intrada Records released the music on a limited edition CD alongside Georges Delerue's score for \"The Pick-up Artist\".\n\nOn August 22, 2014, the film was released as a manufactured on demand DVD by 20th Century-Fox Cinema Archives.\n\n"}
{"id": "56088426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56088426", "title": "Sherlock Holmes of Baker Street", "text": "Sherlock Holmes of Baker Street\n\nSherlock Holmes of Baker Street: A Life of the World's First Consulting Detective is a 1962 novel by William S. Baring-Gould. The book purports to be a biography of Sherlock Holmes.\n\nSome aspects of the book were loosely based on the life of Baring-Gould's paternal grandfather, Sabine Baring-Gould.\n\nFive years later, Baring-Gould would go on to publish an \"Annotated Sherlock Holmes\", which would be considered definitive, at least until Leslie S. Klinger published \"The New Annotated Sherlock Holmes\" in 2004–2005. Baring-Gould used many biography details he invented in \"Sherlock Holmes of Baker Street\" for his annotated volumes.\n\nDetails established by Baring-Gould, such as Professor Moriarty being Holmes' childhood tutor, that Holmes was once an actor\n, and the continuing affair with Irene Adler leading up to the birth of a son, have continued to be a part of The Great Game and have been used in other Sherlockian pastiche. The book also offers one of the earliest versions of Sherlock Holmes meeting Jack the Ripper.\n"}
{"id": "39206125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39206125", "title": "So Young (film)", "text": "So Young (film)\n\nSo Young () is a 2013 Chinese drama film directed by Zhao Wei. It is based on the best-selling novel of the same name \"To Our Youth that is Fading Away\" by Xin Yiwu. The film is Zhao's directorial debut.\n\nThe film's English-language title alludes to the song \"So Young\" by the British alternative rock band Suede from their self-titled debut album. In addition to the novel, the film was also based in part by Zhao's own personal college experience in the 1990s.\n\nThe film has become a major success at the Chinese box office, grossing over US$118 million with a US$5 million budget.\n\nZheng Wei starts her college freshman year as a civil engineer major to be in the same city as her childhood playmate, Lin Jing, whom she is determined to marry one day. When Wei visits Jing at his college dormitory however, Jing's roommate tells her Jing left for America. Unable to understand why Jing abruptly left without saying goodbye, Wei is left confused and heartbroken.\n\nBack in her college dormitory, Wei becomes close friends with her three roommates, Ruan Guan, the most beautiful and popular girl in the class; Li Weijuan, a practical and realistic girl who comes from a poor town but determined to marry well; and Zhu Xiaobei, a tomboy. The four girls talk about their goals in life, and all cheer to Ruan Guan's ambition—to have a youth that never fades away.\n\nWei is befriended by Lao Zhang and his roommate Xu Kaiyang, architecture majors, during the college clubs and activities fair. Kaiyang came from a well-to-do family and starts a romantic pursuit for Wei, but Wei only regards him as a friend. One evening Wei goes to Lao Zhang and Kaiyang's dorm room to borrow their DVDs. Wei is amazed and disgusted by the messy condition of the male dormroom, except one bed and corner that is uncannily neat and clean. Lao Zhang explains that this spot belongs to their disciplined and hardworking roommate, Chen Xiaozheng. Laozhang exits for a moment to find his DVDs, leaving Wei alone in the room. Wei sees a near finished building model on the table and curiously starts fumbling with the parts. At this moment Xiaozheng comes back and angrily yells out, \"What are you doing?\" Startled and swinging around to see yelled, Wei knocks the model off the table. Xiaozheng manages to save his model by shoving Wei out of the way, who falls in a mess to the floor. Enraged in humiliation, Wei angrily demands an apology from Xiaozheng, but Xiaozheng coolly replies that he has nothing to apologize for and that it was her fault for touching his model. From this moment, Wei becomes determined to repeatedly humiliate and bring trouble to Xiaozheng until she gets the apology she believes she deserves. Through her attempts Wei comes to the startling realization that in fact, she likes Xiaozheng. From Lao Zhang and Weijuan, Wei learns that Xiaozheng comes from a poor family and was raised by a strict mother, hence his aloof and disciplined personality. Wei declares her interest in Xiaozheng, then openly, relentlessly, and shamelessly stalks Xiaozheng to get his attention, much to his annoyance. Eventually, Xiaozheng, impressed by her enthusiasm, determination, and spirit finds that he has come to like Wei too, and the two start going together.\n\nDuring the rest of their college life and relationship, Xiaozheng and Wei find that they have starkly contrasting personalities. Although he appreciates Wei's fiery enthusiastic personality, Xiaozheng also reprimands Wei at times for her laid-back and undisciplined attitude towards her coursework. Wei asks Xiaozheng why he is always so serious about everything. Xiaozheng replies, \"I don't know what your attitude towards your life is, but my life is like a building that can only be built once, so I cannot afford any margin of error, not even a centimeter's width.\" Due to his family's modest financial circumstances, Xiaozheng feels that he needs to do anything and everything he can to ensure the best possible professional future for himself.\n\nEventually graduation comes upon Wei and Xiaozheng. At the on-campus recruitment and interview fair, Wei hopes she and Xiaozheng can find work at the same institute thus remain together. Unbeknownst to Wei, Xiaozheng has applied to and obtained a graduate fellowship to study architecture in America. When Wei finally learns of his plan, she confronts Xiaozheng to ask why she was the last one to know. Xiaozheng attempts to explain with difficulty that he could not tell her because he was afraid of hurting her and reiterates that he can not make any mistake in his life. He then apologizes, saying that he had to make this choice of leaving her to make a better future for himself.\n\nA few years later, Wei has now become a mature professional who excels in her work, and is much different from her bygone youthful days. One day she suddenly encounters Lin Jing. Jing explains that he left abruptly because he learned his father was having an affair with Wei's mother, so he could not face Wei. He never went to America, but avoided contact with Wei. The one time when he saw Wei on at her campus, she was happy with Xiaozheng. Now however, he wants to come back and rekindle their friendship and, if possible, romance. At this time, Xiaozheng also returns from America, now as a renowned and accomplished architect. Though he has everything professionally that he was determined to get, Xiaozheng finds the life that he has gained empty and crippled. He deeply regrets letting go of Wei, realizing his time with her was the only time he was himself, thus he also wants to rekindle their relationship. However, Wei on their first meeting firmly rejects Xiaocheng. Not long afterward, Ruan Guan is killed in a car accident when trying to meet her university boyfriend for one last time before she is getting married to another man. Wei, in grief, asks Lin Jing to marry her. However, she later calls it off when Lin Jing tells Wei about another girl that loved him during their time apart. Afterwards, Xiaocheng and Wei meet once more at the aquarium to reminisce. There Xiaozheng asks Wei, \"Can I start over, and love you again?\" to which Wei replies, \"Xiaozheng, we spent our youth together, we owe each other nothing... youth is something you can only relive in memory.\"\n\n\nXin Yiwu, author of the novel, has mentioned that Zhao Wei was actually her choice to play the lead character of \"Zheng Wei\". However, Zhao declined the offer, and opted to direct the film.\n\nBesides Mark Chao and Han Geng, a majority of the cast are newcomers, including Yang Zishan, who played the story's protagonist Zheng Wei. Zhao stated, \"They're very green and new. Sometimes they even lack common sense. But I like working with them because they're down-to-earth...What they lack in experience, they replace with enthusiasm.\"\n\nFor this film, Zhao Wei intended to take the story in a panorama view to the life of college students in the 1990s, \"not just a love triangle\", \"I'd like to devote this film to everyone out there who had a similar youth... It’s a memory shared by those who were born on the Chinese Mainland between the 1970s and early 80s.\" Zhao also bought the rights to Suede's song for the film.\n\nProduction on the film started from March 3 and ended on June 22, 2012.\n\n\nAfter the premiere of the film in Beijing, it has gained favorable reviews from critics and audience, and has been dubbed a \"mature directorial debut\".\n\nIt has also gained positive reviews from English-language critics. Dereke Elley of \"Film Business Asia\" gave the film a 7 out of 10, describes the film as \"an impressive directorial debut\" and praised the film's \"powerhouse first 90 minutes\" as \"that draw an involving portrait of love, friendship, ambition and broken dreams among a group of university students...\" However, Elley criticized the last portion of the film, and states \"as the film abruptly flashes forward several years to pick up the characters in the big city, all the dramatic credit accumulated to that point is squandered by a final 40 minutes that seem rushed and fabricated, with none of the earlier dramatic traction.\" Elley summoned up \"As a two-part movie running some three hours, \"So Young\" could have been a truly epic portrait of youthful emotional errors and their later consequences. As it stands, it's a remarkable directorial debut by Zhao that's well acted by its ensemble cast but is more of an ambitious, great-looking torso than a single movie.\" Elley also states \"One can only hope that one day an extended Director's Cut of the film will eventually emerge on ancillary.\"\n\nMaggie Lee of \"Variety\" described the film as an \"accomplished directing debut\" and \"a lyrical ode to youth at its most fearless and foolhardy.\" Elizabeth Kerr of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" wrote \"Anchored by an engaging performance by Yang Zishan in her first lead role, Zhao's film proves the actress turned director adept with images and actors.\" \"The film’s first 90 minutes make for a complete enough film that the bloated, soapy final 40 become a distraction from Zhao and Li’s careful character construction earlier on. It’s been rumored that Zhao’s original cut clocked in at three hours, and so in that light the rushed, half-baked feel of the last act becomes clear. But even with more time the “adult” segment of the film feels out of place, tonally and stylistically. Thankfully Zhao makes the most of her cast, who carry the film farther than it has a right to go.\" Tay Huizhen of \"MovieXclusive\" (Singapore) gave the film a rating of 4.5/5.\n\nTop Ten Lists\n\nIn mainland China, the film grossed 45 million yuan in the opening-day, and broke the opening-day box office record for a non-3D Chinese language film. The film also surpassed \"\" in advanced sales according to online box office tabulation. The film went on to gross 141 million yuan in its opening weekend, and Zhao became the first Chinese female director to have a first feature film to gross over the 100 million yuan mark. Through May 5, its cume was $76.72M. In an interview, Zhao Wei said \"I’m given box office figures every other day. I feel OK. I am very satisfied with what we’ve taken. You can’t be too greedy.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "13388426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13388426", "title": "Stuttering in popular culture", "text": "Stuttering in popular culture\n\nThere are many references to stuttering in popular culture. Because of the unusual-sounding speech that is produced, as well as the behaviors and attitudes that accompany a stutter, stuttering has been a subject of scientific interest, curiosity, discrimination, and ridicule.\n\nStuttering was, and essentially still is, a riddle with a long history of interest and speculation into its causes and cures. Stutterers can be traced back centuries to the likes of Demosthenes, who tried to control his disfluency by speaking with pebbles in his mouth. The Talmud interprets Bible passages to indicate Moses was also a stutterer. \nPartly due to a perceived lack of intelligence because of his stutter, the man who became the Roman Emperor Claudius was initially shunned from the public eye and excluded from public office. His infirmity is also thought to have saved him from the fate of many other Roman nobles during the purges of Tiberius and Caligula. Isaac Newton, the English scientist who developed the law of gravity, also had a stutter. Other famous Englishmen who stammered were King George VI and Prime Minister Winston Churchill, who led the UK through World War II. Although George VI went through years of speech therapy for his stammer, Churchill thought that his own very mild stutter added an interesting element to his voice: \"Sometimes a slight and not unpleasing stammer or impediment has been of some assistance in securing the attention of the audience...\" The Stuttering Foundation has a list of Famous People Who Stutter.\n\nThe disorder is variable, which means that in certain situations, such as talking on the telephone, the stuttering might be more severe or less, depending on the anxiety level connected with that activity. In other situations, such as singing (as with country music star Mel Tillis or pop singer Gareth Gates) or speaking alone (or reading from a script, as with actor James Earl Jones and broadcast journalist John Stossel), fluency improves. (It is thought that speech production in these situations, as opposed to normal spontaneous speech, may involve a different neurological function.) \nSome very mild stutterers, such as Bob Newhart, have used the disorder to their advantage, although more severe stutterers very often face serious hurdles in their social and professional lives.\n\nThe well-known author of \"Alice in Wonderland\", Lewis Carroll hoped to become a priest but was not allowed to because of his stuttering. In response, he wrote a poem which mentions stuttering:\"Learn well your grammar / And never stammer / Write well and neatly / And sing soft sweetly / Drink tea, not coffee; Never eat toffy / Eat bread with butter / Once more don't stutter.\" (Excerpt from \"Rules & Regulations\") Carroll's well-known stuttering trait is subliminally referenced in \"Alice\", which features a Dodo character in one scene. As Martin Gardner pointed out in \"The Annotated Alice\", the bird is drawn to vaguely resemble Carroll, and Carroll often tended to say his own real last name \"Do-Do-Dodgson\".\n\nA minor character in the \"Codex Alera\" series has a pronounced stutter, and it is assumed by other characters that he is simply intimidated by the situation he finds himself in. However, he soon proves that this is not the case, and that he is a brave, intelligent and resourceful young man who just happens to have a speech disfluency. After showing his competence, he is able to give reports and warnings that are taken completely seriously even though his stutter remains as strong as ever.\n\nOne of the most famous stuttering fictional characters is the animated cartoon character \"Porky Pig\" from the \"Looney Tunes\"/\"Merrie Melodies\" theatrical cartoon series. The creators of Porky wanted a character with a \"timid\" voice. Originally, an actual stutterer voiced the pig, but could not control his stutter. Mel Blanc, who had no speech impediments, took over the role and affected the stutter. In 1991, the National Stuttering Project picketed Warner Bros. demanding that they stop \"belittling\" stutterers and instead use Porky Pig as an advocate for child stutterers. The studio eventually agreed to grant $12,000 to the Stuttering Foundation of America and released a series of public service announcement posters speaking out against bullying, featuring Porky saying \"Everyone's unique and th-th-that's good, folks!\".\n\nIn more recent times, movies such as \"A Fish Called Wanda\" (1988) and \"A Family Thing\" (1996) have dealt with contemporary reactions to and portrayals of stuttering. In \"A Fish Called Wanda\", a lead character, played by Michael Palin, has a severe stutter and low self-esteem. His character—who is socially awkward, nervous, an animal lover, and reclusive—portrays a prevalent stereotypical image of stutterers. The three other characters in the movie generally make up the spectrum of reactions to stuttering: Jamie Lee Curtis's character is sympathetic and sees past it, John Cleese's character is polite but indifferent, and Kevin Kline's is malicious and sadistic. Upon release the film caused controversy among some stutterers who disliked the film for its portrayal of Palin's character as a pushover amid the bullying his character receives, and received favor from others who valued the film for showing the difficulties stutterers commonly face. Palin, whose father was a stutterer, stated that in playing the role he intended to show how difficult and painful stuttering can be. He also donated to various stuttering-related causes and later allowed the Michael Palin Centre for Stammering Children in London to use his name.\n\nIn the 1986 movie \"Attention bandits!\", Marie-Sophie, the main character's daughter, has a stutter. The movie was noted for its positive portrayal of stuttering: it was presented as the heroine's distinctive trait, rather than a drawback or a disability.\n\nThe 1983 movie \"The Right Stuff\" referenced the real-life stuttering problem of John Glenn's wife Annie, and how it rendered her fearful and unwilling to do a news conference during his initial space flight. As he reported in his autobiography, \"John Glenn: A Memoir\", and as shown on-screen in \"The Right Stuff\", her stuttering was never a problem between the two of them, he \"just thought of it as something Annie did\". But she grew frustrated with it, and some years later put herself through intense speech therapy and was largely successful in masking the outward symptoms of stuttering. A proud moment for the both of them was the first public speech she gave on her experiences as a stutterer.\n\nThe novel (and film) \"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest\" has a major character named Billy Bibbit who suffers from a pronounced stutter. Through the story it is revealed that it has very negatively impacted his self-esteem (even leading to a suicide attempt when he stuttered through a marriage proposal and the woman laughed at him). The stutter abruptly disappears after he has sex with a prostitute that another patient smuggles on the ward.\n\nIn the film \"Rocket Science\", the main character Hal Hefner suffers from stuttering.\n\nIn M. Night Shyamalan's 2006 film \"Lady in the Water\", Paul Giamatti's character has a pronounced stutter that selectively disappears when he interacts with Bryce Dallas Howard's character.\n\nIn the 2012 film \"Parental Guidance\", a major character named Turner has a light stutter which he resolved with practice.\n\nIn It (2017 film), as well as the 1986 book and 1990 miniseries, the character William 'Stuttering Bill' Denbrough suffers with a severe stuttering issue, which was described as having \"got worse since his kid brother died.\" Throughout the movie he stutters profusely, the impediment worsening when he is scared or nervous. In the second half of the film, adult Bill has been seen to have overcome his speech impediment, but it recurs in mere seconds after Mike Hanlon calls to tell Bill the news of Pennywise's return. However, despite stuttering traditionally being associated in popular culture with weak willpower, cowardice and low intelligence, 'Big Bill' was instinctively recognized as the de facto leader of the gang, (even while his stutter was in full effect) and he shows great determination, courage, compassion, and cleverness in every iteration.\n\nIn the 2006 film \"Buddy Boy\", Aidan Gillen's character Francis deals with stuttering, isolation, poverty, and a verbally abusive mother. He helps a woman and they eventually become romantically involved. As their relationship grows, he doubts whether she truly loves him despite his flaws. A series of events happen and it is unclear whether Francis makes a discovery or is ill. \n\nThe Academy Award-winning film \"The King's Speech\" (2010) also features George VI as played by Colin Firth stutter, based on original screenplay by David Seidler who also used to stutter as a child until age 16.\n\nThe 2015 Indian film \"Su.. Su... Sudhi Vathmeekam \" starring jayasurya had portrayed the life of a real life person who overcomes the challenges faced in life due to stammering.\n\nBenicio Del Toros character in known only as “DJ” frequently stutters.\n\nAn episode of the hit TV show \"M*A*S*H\" involved a stuttering soldier who was convinced he was unintelligent and constantly harassed by his fellow soldiers - and by his commanding officer. The usually pompous Major Charles Winchester (David Ogden Stiers, himself a reformed stutterer) takes it upon himself to prove the soldier is just as intelligent (if not more, since Winchester discovers the young man has a very high IQ) as the rest of his unit, even giving him a treasured copy of \"Moby-Dick\" to read. Winchester had earlier told off the CO for mocking the stuttering, threatening to report his \"inhumanity\". At the end of the episode, Winchester retires to his tent and listens happily to a tape-recorded letter from his sister, who is revealed to have a pronounced stutter.\n\nRonnie Barker's character in \"Open All Hours\" has a stutter, which sometimes gets him into trouble. His nephew mocks him for it.\n\nOn \"South Park\", a physically disabled character named Jimmy Vulmer suffers a severe stutter that has been used to comic effect on the show especially when he is delivering the punchline of a joke or to make otherwise inoffensive words sound offensive.\n\nThe character Jeremy, from the late 1960s TV series \"Here Come the Brides\" and played by Bobby Sherman, is another example of a fictional stutterer on TV.\n\nActor Nicholas Brendon, who played Xander Harris on \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" for seven consecutive seasons, overcame his stuttering problem and is now a spokesperson for the Stuttering Foundation of America.\n\nIn the UK Channel 4 TV documentary series Educating Yorkshire one followed pupil \"Musharaf Asghar\" has a strong stutter which in the program is helped by load music played through headphones and in a follow-up program \"Stutter School\" by diagram breathing\n\n\"K-K-K-Katy\" was published in 1918 by Geoffrey O'Hara and became a huge hit in wartime America, referred to as \"The Sensational Stammering Song Success Sung by the Soldiers and Sailors\". Anyone who had either a stutter or a lisp was covered. The song uses stuttered lyrics in every line of the chorus, and refers to the stuttering of a stereotypically bashful suitor.\n\nAlvin Lucier's 1969 experimental piece \"I Am Sitting in a Room\" prominently features his stuttering, as well as making reference to it in the spoken lyrics: \"I regard this activity ... as a way to smooth out any irregularities my speech might have.\"\n\nA stylized form of stuttering has frequently appeared in popular music over the past few decades. Buddy Holly was a notable user of this technique in many of his songs, as well as supplementing the stutters with other verbal 'tics' and 'hiccups'. In some songs from the 1960s and 1970s the vocalist would rapidly repeat the first syllable of a word. An early example is The Who's 1965 song \"My Generation\", in which lead singer Roger Daltrey sings the line \"Just talkin' 'bout my G-g-g-generation\". In that particular case, the song's stuttering style provides a framework leading up to the sly lyric, \"Why don't you just ff-ff-fffffffffade away!\". The Rasmus used a similar technique in their song \"F-F-F-Falling\".\n\nAnother example was the affected stuttering by Canada's Bachman-Turner Overdrive in their 1974 hit song \"You Ain't Seen Nothing Yet\". The stutter was not intended to be part of the final release, it was originally done as a joke about Randy Bachman's brother George, who stuttered.\n\nThree songs have gone to #1 on the Billboard charts that include stuttering in the lyrics. \"Bennie & The Jets\" by Elton John (04/13/1974), \"You Ain't Seen Nothing Yet\" by Bachman-Turner Overdrive (11/9/1974), and \"My Sharona\" by The Knack (08/25/1979-09/29/1979). \"Sussudio\" by Phil Collins is another song that went to #1 on 07/06/1985, but he really sings the lyric rather than stuttering through it.\n\nBy the early 1980s producers were creating the same effect synthetically using tape editing and sampling of lyrics. Paul Hardcastle's 1985 song \"19\" features it throughout in both the spoken word and vocal segments. Remixes of songs very frequently employed the effect. Starting in the 1990s stuttering effects fell out of popular use in music.\n\nIn 1995, stutterer Scatman John turned his problem into his asset and wrote the hit song \"Scatman\". Stuttering assisted him to scat sing and create incredible sounds. The lyrics are inspirational and directed at stutterers:\n\nIn 2001, \"Stutter\" by American R&B singer Joe featuring Mystikal, held the number-one spot for four weeks on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100.\n\nPlacebo used a stammering man's voice on their song \"Swallow\" featured on their 1996 debut album, Placebo.\n\nThe song \"For You I Will (Confidence)\" by American pop singer Teddy Geiger features the line \"forgive me if i st– stutter from all of the clutter in my head\"\n\nThe lead singer of indie band Bloc Party, Kele Okereke, has a very pronounced stutter when speaking, but it is not identifiable whilst singing.\n\nThe song \"Boom! Shake the Room\" by DJ Jazzy Jeff & The Fresh Prince has a few lines featuring stuttering.\n\nMorris Minor and the Majors led by British comedian Tony Hawks reached No. 4 in the UK Singles Chart with Stutter Rap (No Sleep til Bedtime), a style parody of The Beastie Boys. It contains the lines, \"'Cause rappin', it's my bread and butter/But it's hard to rap when you're born with a stutter\".\n\nThough a stutterer might seem to be an unlikely radio star, Howard Stern hired a mild stutterer sight unseen (\"He stutters? Hire him.\") to conduct celebrity interviews. Known on the Stern show as Stuttering John, John Melendez worked for Stern for 15 years before taking a position as the announcer on \"The Tonight Show\". Howard Stern also has a collection of frequent guests, many of whom have speech impediments of some type; while their afflictions are exploited for comedic purposes, members of The Wack Pack are well loved by Howard Stern and his fans. John is on the Stuttering Foundation's list of Famous People Who Stutter.\n\nIn addition to personal feelings of shame or anxiety, discrimination is a significant problem for stutterers. The majority of stutterers experience or have experienced bullying, harassment, or ridicule to some degree during their school years from both peers and teachers who do not understand the condition. It can be especially difficult for stutterers to form friendships or romantic relationships, both because stutterers may avoid social exposure and because non-stutterers may find the disorder unattractive. There is evidence of negative attitudes to people who stutter on the part of employers and the general public. In a survey of people who stutter, 67.6% of respondents believed their capabilities had at times been misjudged by supervisors, and 28.3% considered they had not received a job promotion due to their stutter.\n\nAccordingly, stuttering may be legally classified as a disability in many parts of the world, affording stutterers the same protection from wrongful discrimination as for people with other disabilities. Different jurisdictions have different tests and it will depend on whether these are met in the particular case. People who stutter may, for example, be protected in the U.S. by the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (and/or by state/local legislation), or in Great Britain by the Equality Act 2010, through the person either having a disability as defined or being 'regarded' or 'perceived' as having one. The Australian Human Rights Commission says stuttering is within the Australian Disability Discrimination Act 1992. Legal protection from disability discrimination sometimes extends beyond employment discrimination, for example to provision of services and education, and may include a right to reasonable accommodation.\n\nThe U.S. Congress passed a resolution in May 1988 designating the second week of May as Stuttering Awareness Week, while International Stuttering Awareness Day (ISAD), is held internationally on October 22. In September 2005, ISAD was recognised and supported by over 30 Members of the European Parliament (MEPS) at a reception given by the European League of Stuttering Associations.\n\nEven though public awareness of stuttering has improved markedly over the years, misconceptions are still common, usually reinforced by inaccurate media portrayals of stuttering and through popular misconception. A 2002 study focusing on college-age students conducted by the University of Minnesota Duluth found that a large majority viewed the cause of stuttering as either nervousness or low self-confidence, and many recommended simply \"slowing down\" as the best course of action for recovery. While these misconceptions are damaging and may actually worsen the symptoms of stuttering, groups and organizations are making significant progress towards a greater public awareness.\n\n"}
{"id": "5398509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5398509", "title": "Tambu (music)", "text": "Tambu (music)\n\nTambu (also tambú) is a drum, music genre and dance form, found on Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao, and is a major part of the Dutch Antillean music. On Bonaire, it is also known as \"bari\". Curaçaoan tambu is a major part of that island's culture, and is there a genre that is considered \"muziek di zumbi\" (literally, \"spirit music\", referring to music of African origin), and is accompanied by instruments like the \"wiri\", \"agan\" and triangle. The word \"tambu\" derives from the Spanish word for drum, \"tambor\".\n\n\"Tambu\" can refer to the small drum on which the music is played, the dance that accompanies the music, or the event where the music and dance take place. In modern \"tambu\", the lyrics are usually in the Papiamento language and are sung along with a \"chapi\" (hoe), the \"tambu\" drum and sometimes other singers, while the audience claps to the rhythm. The \"tambu\" rhythm is complicated and is passed down orally from generation to generation. \"Tambu\" consists of two beats; \"sla habri\" and \"sla será\", the open and closed beat respectively. These beats alternate to create a musical dialogue. Additionally, there are two types of \"tambu\" music; \"telele\", which is a long, slow rising and falling melody, and \"tambu\" itself, which is faster paced and shorter in duration.\n\n"}
{"id": "672934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=672934", "title": "The Lawnmower Man (film)", "text": "The Lawnmower Man (film)\n\nThe Lawnmower Man is a 1992 science-fiction action-horror film directed by Brett Leonard and written by Brett Leonard and Gimel Everett. The movie is supposedly an adaptation of Stephen King short story of the same name, but aside from a single scene, the two are completely different. The film stars Jeff Fahey as Jobe Smith, a simple-minded gardener, and Pierce Brosnan as Dr. Lawrence Angelo, the scientist who decides to experiment on him.\n\nThe film was originally titled \"Stephen King's The Lawnmower Man\", but King successfully sued the producers for attaching his name to the film and stated in court documents that the film \"bore no meaningful resemblance\" to his story. An earlier short film, also titled \"The Lawnmower Man\", is a more faithful adaptation of the short story. It was directed by Jim Gonis in 1987. Three years later, Leonard would direct another virtual reality film called \"Virtuosity\" starring Oscar winners Denzel Washington and Russell Crowe made in 1995. \n\nA sequel, \"\", was released in 1996, with Austin O'Brien as the only returning actor from the original film.\n\nDr. Lawrence Angelo works for Virtual Space Industries, running experiments in increasing the intelligence of chimpanzees using drugs and virtual reality. One of the chimps escapes using the warfare tactics for which he was being trained. Dr. Angelo is generally a pacifist, who would rather explore the intelligence-enhancing potential of his research without applying it for military purposes. His wife Caroline is unhappy with the way he is ignoring her to focus on this project.\n\nJobe Smith, a local greenskeeper with an intellectual disability, lives in the garden shed owned by the local priest, Father Francis McKeen. McKeen's brother, Terry, is a local landscape gardener and employs Jobe to help him with odd jobs. Father McKeen punishes the challenged Jobe with a belt and \"Hail Marys\" whenever he fails to complete his chores.\n\nDr. Angelo realizes he needs a human subject to work with, and he spots Jobe mowing his lawn. Peter Parkette, Dr. Angelo's young neighbor, is friends with Jobe. Dr. Angelo invites both of them over to play some virtual reality games. Learning more about Jobe, Angelo persuades him to participate in his experiments, letting him know it will make him smarter. Jobe agrees and begins the program. Dr. Angelo makes it a point to redesign all the intelligence-boosting treatments without the \"aggression factors\" used in the chimpanzee experiments.\n\nJobe soon becomes smarter, for example, learning Latin in only two hours. Meanwhile, Jobe also begins a sexual relationship with a young rich widow, Marnie. However, Jobe begins to display telepathic abilities and has hallucinations. He continues training at the lab, until an accident makes Dr. Angelo shut the program down. The project director, Sebastian Timms, employed by a mysterious agency known as The Shop, keeps tabs on the progress of the experiment, and discreetly swaps Dr. Angelo's new medications with the old Project 5 supply (reintroducing the \"aggression factors\" into the treatment).\n\nJobe develops telekinetic and pyrokinetic powers and takes Marnie to the lab to make love to her while in virtual reality. Something goes wrong in the simulation when Jobe's virtual avatar shapeshifts, attacking her mind directly; Marnie is driven insane, laughing endlessly at nothing.\n\nJobe's powers continue to grow, but the treatments are also affecting his mental stability, and he decides to exact revenge on those who abused him when he was \"dumb\": Father McKeen is burned alive, a bully named Jake is put into a catatonic state by a mental \"lawnmower man\" continually mowing his brain, and a lawnmower invention of Jobe's runs down Harold, Peter's abusive father. Jobe uses his telepathic abilities to make the investigating police attribute it all to \"bizarre accidents\" in front of Dr. Angelo.\n\nJobe believes his final stage of evolution is to become \"pure energy\" in the VSI computer mainframe, and from there reach into all the systems of the world. He promises his \"birth\" will be signaled by every telephone on the planet ringing simultaneously. The Shop sends a team to capture Jobe, but they are ineffective against his abilities and he scatters their molecules. Jobe uses the lab equipment to enter the mainframe computer, abandoning his body to become a completely virtual being, leaving his body behind like a husk.\n\nDr. Angelo remotely infects the VSI computer, encrypting all of the links to the outside world, trapping Jobe in the mainframe. As Jobe searches for an unencrypted network connection, Dr. Angelo primes bombs to destroy the building. Feeling responsible for what has happened to Jobe, Angelo then joins him in virtual reality to try to reason with him. Jobe overpowers and crucifies him, then continues to search for a network connection. Peter runs into the building; Jobe still cares for him and allows Dr. Angelo to go free to rescue Peter. Jobe forces a computer-connected security door to open, allowing Peter and Dr. Angelo to escape. Jobe finally escapes through a maintenance line before the building is destroyed in multiple explosions.\n\nBack at home with Peter, Dr. Angelo and Peter's mother Carla (who has become a romantic interest) are about to leave when their telephone rings, followed by the noise of a second, and then hundreds of telephones ring, all around the globe.\n\n\nThe plot of Stephen King's 1975 short story \"The Lawnmower Man\" concerns Harold Parkette, who hires \"Pastoral Greenery and Outdoor Services Inc.\" to cut his lawn. The serviceman who arrives to do the job has a lawnmower that mows the lawn by itself while he crawls, naked, behind the mower, eating the grass. The serviceman himself is actually a satyr who worships the Greek god Pan. When Parkette tries to call the police, the mower and its owner ritually kill him as a sacrifice to Pan.\n\nThe film's original script, written by director Brett Leonard and producer Gimel Everett, was titled \"Cyber God\" and had nothing to do with King's short story. New Line Cinema held the film rights to King's story, and decided to combine \"Cyber God\" with some minor elements of King's \"The Lawnmower Man\". The resulting film, originally titled \"Stephen King's The Lawnmower Man\", differed so much from the source material that King sued the filmmakers to remove his name from the title.\n\nAfter two court rulings in King's favor, New Line still did not comply and initially released the home video version as \"Stephen King's The Lawnmower Man\". On King's official website, the film is not listed among the films based on his work. \"The Lawnmower Man\" was released in Japan under the title \"Virtual Wars\"; Fuji Creative's Masao Takiyama is also credited as a co-producer.\n\nReferences to the short story include the scene where Jobe kills Peter's father with the lawnmower \"Big Red\", the aftermath in which the police state that they found some of his remains in the birdbath, and the name of Terry McKeen's company, Pastoral Greenery.\n\nThe film has several elements in common with the 1959 Daniel Keyes novel \"Flowers for Algernon\", which also deals with a mentally disabled man whose intelligence is technologically boosted to genius levels.\n\nThe computer-generated imagery (CGI) was created for the film by Angel Studios. The supervising sound editor was Frank Serafine, who was hired as a result of his sound creation work in the 1982 film \"Tron\".\n\nSome of the computer-generated scenes were used in \"Beyond the Mind's Eye\", a video in the \"Mind's Eye\" series.\n\n, the film held a 34% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 38 reviews with the consensus: \"\"The Lawnmower Man\" suffers from a predictable, melodramatic script, and its once-groundbreaking visual effects look dated today\".\n\nThe movie debuted at number two at the box office with $7.7 million in its opening weekend behind \"Wayne's World\". It went on to gross $32.1 million domestically, making it a moderate financial success against its $10 million budget.\n\nA sequel \"\" was released in 1996. It was retitled \"Lawnmower Man 2: Jobe's War\" for its video release. The film received negative reviews from critics and fans of the first movie.\n\nThis film had spawned two video games, \"The Lawnmower Man\" in 1993 and \"Cyberwar\" in 1994.\n\nComic book writer Grant Morrison said in an interview that he was contacted by the owners of the \"Lawnmower Man\" franchise in 1995 and asked to write treatments for \"Lawnmower Man 2\". Morrison claims he was asked to \"bend the \"Lawnmower Man\" series in an X-Men superhero-type direction.\" Neither of Morrison's script treatments was used and \"Lawnmower Man 2: Beyond Cyberspace\" was produced without his involvement.\n\nSome of the CGI footage of \"The Lawnmower Man\" was featured in \"Beyond the Mind's Eye\".\n\nJaunt VR, a virtual reality studio, is adapting the feature into a virtual reality experience with the original rights holders.\n\nThe theatrical version of the film was initially released on VHS and Laserdisc on August 26, 1992. Alongside the 103-minute version, New Line Home Video also released an unrated director's cut running 141 minutes on VHS and Laserdisc. The success of the unrated version alerted King to New Line's continued defiance of the order that his name be stricken from the film's credits and all marketing as the back covers stated \"Based on a Story by Stephen King\". A third court order was needed to force the studio's compliance. As before, the court upheld the two prior judgments, but it took the extra step of imposing a penalty of $10,000 directly payable to King for every day New Line remained in contempt by defying the order. Additionally, the studio would have to forfeit all profits earned on the film during that same period.\n\nThe film was released on VCD in 1996. The DVD, released in December 1997, contains only the theatrical cut, with scenes from the unrated edition being presented on the DVD as deleted scenes.\n\nThe director's cut was released on DVD with the inclusion of the sequel \"Lawnmower Man 2\" on October 25, 2010, in the United Kingdom, however this release suffered from poor NTSC quality transfer with the aspect ratio of 4:3 pan and scan, the extended scenes spliced-in but in the aspect ratio of 16:9.\n\nPrior to the US Shout! Factory release, Blu-ray versions of the film were only available in Italy through Minerva Pictures and in Germany under the Alive brand. The Italian release contains edited Italian credits at the beginning, which are taken from the DVD version as the difference in quality from the rest of the movie can be seen (interlaced framing notably).\n\nShout! Factory released \"The Lawnmower Man\" on Blu-ray for the first time in the United States in June 2017. The two-disc set includes new 4k digital restorations of the theatrical and director's cuts, audio commentary with director Brett Leonard and producer Gimel Everett, an all-new retrospective documentary featuring Leonard and star Jeff Fahey, and all of the bonus features from the original New Line DVD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47105495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47105495", "title": "The Ritual of Embalming Papyrus", "text": "The Ritual of Embalming Papyrus\n\nThe Ritual of Embalming Papyrus or \"Papyrus of the Embalming Ritual\" is one of only two extant papyri which detail anything at all about the practices of mummification used within the burial practices of Ancient Egyptian culture.\n\nOne version of the papyri is contained within the Egyptian museum Cairo (\"Pap. Boulaq No.3\") and the other is within the Louvre (No. 5158).\n\nThe papyri within Cairo was located and discovered during the year 1857, within a tomb in Thebes. The papyri represents the last ten pages of a work of which all other pages are lost, of these, eight were in a good condition.\n\nThe Louvre papyri shows the same information as is held on the last two pages of the Cairo.\n\nBoth are copies made in hieratic script, with Demotic notation, during the Roman period, and were copied from a single earlier text.\n\nThe papyri probably dates to the 1st century A.D., and contain specifically information on eleven acts of anointing of the body, the wrapping and placing of internal organs, which had been treated, inside Canopic jars, and the act of performing the bandaging of the embalmed corpse to create a mummy.\n\nThe act of mummification described was to be done while religious acts of praying and incantation were performed ritualistically.\n\nPersons necessarily present and participating within a performance of the ritual were a \"master of secrets\" or \"stolist\" (both refer to the same person), a \"lector\", and a divine chancellor or seal-bearer (\"hetemu-netjer\"). Of the persons present, the individual who was the \"hery-sheshta\" fulfilled the most important and superior position, the \"hetemu-netjer\" was next in importance, then the \"wetiu\", who were to wrap the embalmed corpse in material.\n\nThe text proceeds in the direction of the embalming the head, toward the feet.\n\nThe head was to be wrapped firstly in linen, of this first linen, the embalmer was to obtain the linen from Sais, with a second layer added afterwards.\n"}
{"id": "14058109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14058109", "title": "The Strange Case of the End of Civilization as We Know It", "text": "The Strange Case of the End of Civilization as We Know It\n\nThe Strange Case of the End of Civilisation as We Know It is a 1977 comedy directed by Joseph McGrath and starring John Cleese. It is a low-budget spoof of the Sherlock Holmes detective series, as well as the mystery genre in general.\n\nThe film begins aboard a luxury aircraft as Dr. Gropinger (Ron Moody) (an obvious parody of Henry Kissinger) travels on a goodwill tour. He misplaces his diary and is thrown into a panic as, without the diary, he no longer knows where he is or is supposed to be next. Stepping off the plane, he is shot dead after extending greetings in Hebrew to a congregation of Arabs. Soon after, the U.S. President (Joss Ackland in a caricature of Gerald Ford) receives a threatening letter signed only \"Moriarty\", claiming responsibility for the death. The letter also claims Moriarty has set in motion a plan that will allow him to gain control of the world. The president dispatches a top agent to London to work with the world's top law enforcement officials and find a strategy to combat Moriarty. \n\nHeaded by an incompetent Englishman (Denholm Elliott), the committee settles on contacting the \"present-day\" Sherlock Holmes (John Cleese). He is enrolled by the Commissioner of Police (Stratford Johns) to lay plans for the capture of the descendant of Moriarty before he gains control of the world. Holmes reveals himself to be a great eccentric, with an affinity for certain addictive drugs (a nod to the literary Sherlock Holmes' experience with cocaine). He is accompanied by the descendant of Dr. Watson (Arthur Lowe), both a medical doctor and utter fool. Unfortunately, the commissioner is murdered before leaving the Holmes residence, his death mainly the result of Watson's rampant stupidity.\n\nThe duo then proceed to Scotland Yard to discuss the situation with the committee. Before any plans can be made, much of the committee is murdered by a distant sniper. Without their help, Holmes dreams up a plan to invite all of the great detectives in the world to a party, with the hope of discovering the true identity of Moriarty. He reasons that Moriarty will be unable to pass up a chance at attacking all of them in one fell swoop. Many fictional detectives are parodied and handed gruesome deaths while Holmes and Watson wait in a suite. The murderer is revealed to be none other than an exact copy of Watson. Due to Watson's ineptitude and the impersonator's great skill in deception, Holmes is faced with a quandary in determining the real culprit (who is actually Moriarty).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43055550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43055550", "title": "Thumb tribe", "text": "Thumb tribe\n\nThumb tribe or sometimes thumb generation is a term used to describe a younger generation with members who are more adept at texting using their thumbs than talking on the phone. It identifies a trend among young people who use mobile phones for many activities, such as texting, email, entertainment and conversations, as opposed to using keyboards with traditional desktop computers. The term has been used by marketers to identify younger consumers. It marks a shift in the favorite digit, such that activities typically done by the forefinger, such as pointing at things or ringing doorbells, are being done with the thumb. It has been used in politics to identify persons who are not part of the younger generation, such as American politician Mitt Romney, who may have a mobile phone but does not use it dextrously. An effect is that for many young people, the thumb is physically stronger and more flexible, according to researchers. There are medical implications as well; excessive use of thumbs can lead to muscle pain and possible occupational problems.\n\nThe term was first used in Japan to identify the \"younger generation of Japanese texters\". Japanese youth used their \"keitai\" or mobile phone to download music, access Japan's version of Myspace called \"mixi\", surf the web, check train timetables and so forth. Sometimes it permitted them to form smart mobs to assemble seemingly spontaneously. The Japanese texting style relied heavily on the thumb, according to a report in \"NBC News\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22733383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22733383", "title": "Type scene", "text": "Type scene\n\nA type scene is a literary convention employed by a narrator across a set of scenes, or related to scenes (place, action) already familiar to the audience. The similarities with, and differences from, the established type are used to illuminate developments in plot and character. As Robert Louis Fowler wrote, \"The technique of the type-scene offers the poet a basic scaffolding, but it also allows the poet to adapt each scene for specific purposes.\"\n\nMuch of the foundational work for such analysis was by Walter Arend in his 1933 \"Die typischen Scenen bei Homer\" book on the \"Iliad\" of Homer. Later work by Robert Alter employed similar examination to parts of the Hebrew Bible, in particular to the betrothal type-scene at the well in Genesis. Another type scene that Alter identifies is the annunciation of the birth of the hero to a barren woman, such as the birth of Samson to the wife of Manoah, or the birth of Samuel to Hannah. Other scholars have suggested other type scenes in the Hebrew Bible, such as the heavenly council, theophany, prophetic concealment and the dying monarch.\n\n"}
{"id": "34168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34168", "title": "Xenogears", "text": "Xenogears\n\nXenogears is a role-playing video game developed and published by Square for the PlayStation video game console. The debut entry in the wider \"Xeno\" franchise, it was released in Japan in February 1998, and in North America in October the same year. The gameplay of \"Xenogears\" revolves around navigating 3D environments both on-foot and using humanoid mecha dubbed \"Gears\". Combat is governed by a version of the turn-based \"Active Time Battle\" system. The story follows protagonist Fei Fong Wong and several others as they journey across the world in an attempt to overthrow the all-powerful rule of Deus. The story incorporates themes of Jungian psychology, Freudian thought, and religious symbolism.\n\nCreated by Tetsuya Takahashi and his wife Kaori Tanaka as a proposal for \"Final Fantasy VII\", it was allowed to be developed as its own project, first as a sequel to \"Chrono Trigger\" and then as a wholly original game with a science fiction premise. It was developed under the working title \"Project Noah\". The characters and mecha were designed by Kunihiko Tanaka, whose designs were portrayed during in-game cinematics through the use of anime cutscenes. Due to time constraints and the team's general inexperience, the second half of the game's plot was primarily told through cutscenes.\n\nThe game was nearly left unlocalized due to its religious content; its localization was handled entirely by Square Electronic Arts staff and translator Richard Honeywood, who described it as one of the most troublesome games of his career. The game received critical acclaim, with praise particularly going towards the storyline, gameplay, characters, and psychological and religious themes, but received criticism for the rushed pace of the second disc, due to a lack of gameplay and excessive narration. By 2003, the game had shipped over a million copies worldwide. It has since gained a cult following. While a direct sequel was never developed, Takahashi would later found the studio Monolith Soft and develop the \"Xenosaga\" trilogy as a spiritual successor.\n\n\"Xenogears\" combines traditional role-playing video game structures such as Square's signature Active Time Battle system with new features particular to the game's martial-arts combat style. It features two slightly different battle systems: in the first the user controls human characters in turn-based combat manipulated through the sequencing of learned combos. The second, making use of \"gears\", introduces different sets of statistics and abilities for each character. \"Xenogears\" features both traditional anime and pre-rendered CGI movie clips by Production I.G to illustrate important plot points.\n\nThe player advances the protagonist and his companions through a fully three-dimensional fictional world. There is an overworld map with visitable cities, geographical sites, and other important locations spread out across several continents. A couple of locations encountered throughout the game exist not on the original world map, but in the sky. At first, the party only travels on foot, but is eventually permitted to make use of a variety of vehicles, including their gears and the \"sand submarine\" Yggdrasil.\n\nBattle in \"Xenogears\" is a variant of the Active Time Battle system found in games such as \"Chrono Trigger\" and the \"Final Fantasy\" series. Most enemy encounters in \"Xenogears\" are random. When a battle begins, there is a transition to a separate screen with a combat interface. Player-characters use a combination of martial arts moves, \"Ether\" (magical) attacks, and special \"Deathblow\" combinations which are learned through the repetition of specific proportions of strong, moderate, and weak hits. All offensive actions use Action Points (AP), costing either three points, two points, or one point, corresponding to the intensity of the attack. Each character can initially use only three AP per turn, but at higher levels, they can eventually use up to seven AP per turn. At a certain point in the game, characters can begin using \"Elemental Deathblows\", which, as the name implies, attach elemental attributes to physical combos. In addition to being used for attacks, AP may be saved and allocated to Attack Points for combo attacks during later turns. A total of 28 AP may be accumulated for combo attacks.\n\nCharacters can also use a variety of magical abilities for both offense and ally-support. These abilities are limited by the number of Ether Points (EP) that are available to a character, which must be replenished using items during exploration (non-combat) sequences. For most characters, these abilities are attributed to \"Ether,\" a mysterious power to which (presumably) all humans have access. Some characters' magical abilities are referred to by different names, implying differences in their origins. For example, Fei's magic is called \"Chi\" and Citan's is called \"Arcane\". While fighting in gears, human Ether abilities are amplified, though some change or become unavailable during this type of combat.\n\nIn addition to small-scale, hand-to-hand combat, the characters sometimes fight from within their respective giant robots, called gears. In gear combat, the limiting factor of AP is replaced by fuel, with each attack consuming an amount corresponding to its power. For these battles, \"deathblows\" may only be executed after first building up the \"Attack Level\"—an abstract concept represented by a number in the bottom-left of the gear combat interface—through the execution of simple strong, moderate, or weak attacks. One deathblow is allowed per point on the Attack Level gauge. There are three levels for normal gear deathblows and, beyond the third level, an \"infinite\" level with its own set of deathblows. To reach \"Infinity Mode\", a character has to stay at attack level 3 while performing any other action. With each turn, there is a chance that Infinity Mode will be reached. Having a duration of three turns, Infinity Mode allows fuel to be recharged in much larger quantities and, while in this mode, gears have access to \"Infinity\" attacks.\n\nGears can regain fuel with a \"Charge\" command. The gears can also activate \"Boosters\" which enable them to act faster at a cost of extra fuel per turn. The \"Special Option\" command allows for gear HP restoration abilities and special, fuel-consuming attacks. When a gear has no fuel left, it can no longer execute attacks, use special options, or use boosters. They can, however, Charge to regain fuel and use Ether abilities. Gear fuel, parts, and upgrades may be purchased in shops or from certain individual vendors.\n\n\"Xenogears\" initially takes place on Ignas, the largest continent of the \"Xenogears\" world, and the site of a centuries-long war between the nations of Aveh and Kislev. A church-like organization known as the Ethos has excavated gears (giant robot suits), ostensibly for the preservation of the world's culture. Although Kislev originally had the upper hand in the war, a mysterious army known as Gebler appeared and began to provide assistance to Aveh. With Gebler's help, the Aveh military not only recovered its losses, but began making its way into Kislev's territory. As the story unfolds, the setting broadens to encompass the entire world and the two floating countries, Shevat and Solaris. Solaris, ruled by Emperor Cain and an AI collective known as the Gazel Ministry, commands the Gebler army and the Ethos and secretly uses both to dominate the land-dwellers. Shevat has been the only country to evade the control of Solaris.\n\nMuch of \"Xenogears\" plot and backstory is detailed in the Japanese-only book \"Xenogears Perfect Works.\" This book, produced by the now defunct DigiCube, details the history of the \"Xenogears\" universe from the discovery of the Zohar to the start of the game. According to the \"Perfect Works\" schematic (as well as the game's end credits), \"Xenogears\" is the fifth episode in a series of six, with events spanning multiple millennia.\n\n\"Xenogears\" nine playable characters hail from different areas of the game's world. The game begins on Ignas, a continent with two countries, Aveh and Kislev. Fei and Citan at first appear to be from this land, although it is later learned that they originate from the capital cities Aphel Aura and Etrenank of the floating countries of Shevat and Solaris, respectively. Fei is the story's protagonist, and has initially lost his memories of his past. Citan is a man whose knowledge of the world and technology often aids in the party's quest. Bart, a desert pirate, is also from Ignas and is the rightful heir to the throne of Aveh. Rico, a demi-human with incredible strength, lives in a Kislev prison, spending his days as a gear-battling champion. Solaris, a hidden city of advanced technology, is home to several characters in the game. Billy, a pious worker for the Ethos religious group, was originally from Solaris. Elly, a beautiful Gebler officer of Solaris, is destined to be near Fei and falls in love with him by the end of the game. Maria and Chu-Chu are both from Shevat, the floating city and the only place resisting Solaris' domination. Emeralda is a humanoid being constructed by an ancient civilization from a colony of nanomachines, and was retrieved from the ruins of the ancient civilization Zeboim. Significant non-playable characters include Krelian and Miang, both leaders of Solaris who seek to revive Deus, a mechanical weapon that fell to earth thousands of years ago. They serve as the game's main antagonists. Grahf, a mysterious man with immense power, serves as a major antagonist ; he follows Fei and his group and often fights them, though his goals remain a mystery until very late in the game. As being \"the Contact\", \"the Anti-type\" and \"the Complement\", Fei, Elly, and Miang have been reincarnated several times throughout the game's history.\n\n\"Xenogears\" centers around the protagonist Fei Fong Wong, an adopted young male in the village of Lahan, brought by a mysterious \"masked man\" three years ago. The events surrounding Fei's arrival at the village cause him to have retrograde amnesia. During an attack on Lahan from Gebler, Fei pilots an empty gear and fights the enemy, accidentally destroying the village. As a result, Fei and Citan, the village's doctor, decide to leave with the abandoned gear to get it away from the village. Fei meets Elly, a Gebler officer, and Grahf, who claims to know about Fei's past and admits to spearheading the attack on Lahan to unlock Fei's abilities. Eventually, Fei and Citan are picked up by Bart, a desert pirate and heir to the throne of Aveh. Fei again loses control of himself inside his gear while Bart and Citan are attacked by an unknown red gear. Fei wakes up in a Kislev prison and meets Wiseman, a mysterious masked man, who originally brought Fei to Lahan. Fei is able to escape with the help of his friends, including a new one, prisoner Rico, but he and Elly are separated from the rest of the party and accidentally shot down by Bart.\n\nThey are rescued by the Thames, a mobile floating city. After learning Elly's whereabouts, Gebler attacks Thames to kidnap Elly and Miang, a Gebler officer, unsuccessfully attempts to brainwash her. Gebler leader Ramsus, who holds a vendetta against Fei, attacks Thames, searching for him. Afterward, Billy, an Ethos worker onboard Thames, allows Fei to use the Ethos' advanced medical technology. Bishop Stone, Ethos' leader, reveals to the party Ethos's true purpose of controlling the land dwellers, or \"Lambs\", for Solaris. The group follows Stone to Zeboim, an excavation site. They discover a young girl composed of nanomachines, which is what Krelian, a Solarian leader, seeks. Stone takes the girl while the group fights Id, the mysterious red gear's pilot, who wants the girl, but is stopped by Wiseman. The group returns and finds Fei awake and standing at his gear with a case of anterograde amnesia. Fei and his friends decide to ally themselves with the floating city of Shevat, the only remaining city capable of resisting Solaris, joined by Shevat locals Maria and Chu-Chu. During this time, Bart regains his throne and initiates peace between the two countries and Stone is destroyed. Upon entering Solaris, they encounter Emeralda, the nanomachine colony. She attacks at first, but recognizes Fei, referring to him as \"Kim\", much to Fei's confusion. In Solaris, Fei learns that Citan has been working for Emperor Cain, though he's actually a double agent on their side, and that Solaris has been producing food and medicine out of recycled humans in the Soylent System facility. The party also learns that the Gazel Ministry seeks to revive God and achieve eternal life, while Krelian seeks to possess Elly. Back at Shevat, Citan informs his friends that Id is actually Fei's split personality, with Fei's gear turning red when he switches to Id due to their connection.\n\nThe Gazel Ministry uses the Gaetia Key, an artifact that manipulates the DNA of massive amounts of humans around the world, turning them into mutants called Wels in order to collect flesh to reconstruct their god, an all-powerful Gear called Deus that crash-landed on the planet ten thousand years ago. During this time, Elly and Fei become romantically involved with each other. They learn that they are the reincarnations of Sophia and Lacan. Lacan was a painter while Sophia was the Holy Mother of Nisan around the time of the war between Shevat and Solaris five-hundred years earlier. Lacan blamed himself for Sophia's death during the war and, with the help of Miang, became Grahf and sought to destroy the world. Although defeated, he and Miang have transmigrated their minds into other humans since. Krelian and Miang dispose of the Emperor and the Gazel Ministry because they are no longer necessary and kidnap Elly, the \"Mother\", who must be sacrificed in order to revive Deus. Miang is killed by an enraged Ramsus as he realizes he has been used, and Elly turns into Miang, becoming absorbed by Deus. Fei, as Id, attempts to make contact with the Zohar. Wiseman, who reveals himself to be Fei's father, stops him, giving peace to Fei's other personalities. Fei's gear transforms into the Xenogears and Grahf appears, revealing that he had been inside Fei's father's body. At this time, Fei makes contact with the Wave Existence—an extra-dimensional being who is trapped inside Deus and is the source of power for all gears—and learns that he must destroy Deus to free humanity. Grahf tries to merge with Fei and is defeated.\n\nFei discovers that he is a descendant of Abel, a young boy who was a passenger on board the Eldridge, a spaceship that was being used to transport Deus, the core of an interplanetary invasion system created by a federation of spacefaring humans, one that was deemed far too dangerous for use and was therefore dismantled. Deus, however, had become self-aware and took over the Eldridge. Amidst the confusion, Abel was separated from his mother and accidentally made contact with the Wave Existence through the Zohar, Deus' power source. It gave him the power to one day destroy Deus and the Zohar in order to free itself. The Wave Existence also sensed Abel's longing for his mother and used the biological computer Kadomony to create a woman for a companion. When Deus gained full control over the Eldridge, the captain decided to initiate the self-destruct sequence in an attempt to destroy it. Both Deus and the Zohar survived the explosion and landed on a nearby planet along with Abel, under the protection of the Wave Existence. He was the sole survivor, but was soon united with the woman that the Wave Existence had created for him as a companion, Elly. Abel and Elly, at first, led a happy life, but Deus had also created Miang, Cain, and the Gazel Ministry to begin a human civilization on the planet, one which would be under their control to one day be turned into Wels and be absorbed into Deus to recover its strength. When the now-adult Abel and Elly discovered this, they openly challenged Cain and the Gazel Ministry, but lost. However, through the power of the Wave Existence, they are able to be reincarnated in later eras to combat Deus. One of these incarnations lived during an ancient technologically advanced era in Zeboim, where Abel's incarnation went by the name Kim and created Emeralda. Ramsus, revealed to be a biologically engineered clone of Emperor Cain created by Solaris scientists as a means of controlling Deus who was rejected in favor of Fei, hence his hatred of the latter, attacks one more time and is finally defeated. He is later rescued during an attack and convinced to let go of his anger and aid the group.\n\nFei sets out to destroy Deus and free the Wave Existence and Elly. In Merkaba, the party defeats Deus, but they realize that the energy released from the Wave Existence's shift will destroy the planet. Elly, inside Deus, tries to move it away from the planet and Fei, in his Xenogears, follows to save her, but both disappear in the rift. Krelian confronts them, telling Fei he only sought to end the pain and suffering that comes with human existence by reverting everything back to when it all began, when all was one, to ascend to the realm of God. Fei rejects Krelian's ideology with his love for Elly, but Krelian challenges Fei, telling him to prove this love that could make him independent of God, and calls forth Urobolus, a gigantic serpent-like incarnation of Miang. Xenogears appears and Fei uses it to defeat Urobolus. Krelian releases Elly and reveals to Fei that he had planned to become one with God along with Elly. During her time with Krelian, Elly had seen inside his heart and realized it was full of sadness and despair for all the atrocities he had committed. Despite everything, Elly says that Krelian truly loved people more than anyone else. Because no one will forgive his sins, he declines Fei's offer to return and ascends to a higher plane of existence along with the Wave Existence, telling Fei and Elly that he envies them. Fei and Elly then return to their planet along with Xenogears and reunite with the rest of the party.\n\n\"Xenogears\" was produced by Hiromichi Tanaka, who previously worked on the SNES game \"Secret of Mana\". The scenario of the game was written by director Tetsuya Takahashi and by Kaori Tanaka. Yasuyuki Honne served as art director, while Kunihiko Tanaka was responsible for the character designs. Tetsuo Mizuno, Tomoyuki Takechi, and \"Final Fantasy\" creator Hironobu Sakaguchi were executive producers for \"Xenogears\". Koichi Mashimo, an animation director and his studio Bee Train, was in charge of the anime cut scenes. \"Xenogears\" started out as an early concept conceived by Tetsuya Takahashi and Kaori Tanaka for the Square game \"Final Fantasy VII\". Their superior in the company deemed it \"too dark and complicated for a fantasy\", but Takahashi was allowed to develop it as a separate project. The project began under the working title \"Project Noah\". The main impetus for Takahashi was that he was growing frustrated with the \"Final Fantasy\" series. The initial concept was to make \"Xenogears\" a sequel to \"Chrono Trigger\", but after multiple clashes with the company over this and unspecified practical difficulties, it was decided to make it a completely original title. Due to this initial development idea, there were concepts unsuited for a fantasy world, so a compromise was made by incorporating both fantasy and science fiction into the game's world.\n\nDevelopment took approximately two years, and included a staff of thirty developers. Preliminary planning and creation of the backstory extended to several years before that. The word \"Xeno\" had been decided between staff from an early stage, with its meaning being \"something strange or alien\". \"Gears\" was chosen from multiple suggested words. The game's Gears were not present during early stages, with their places being filled by traditional summoned monsters. The game's use of anime cutscenes was chosen as it was difficult to properly recreate Tanaka's Gear artwork into 3D CGI. The game's engine was also designed to be best suited for the 3D map displays and battle arenas. Takahashi had wanted to create the game in full 3D, but the PlayStation's capacities meant this could not be managed, resulting in the current mesh of 2D sprites against 3D backgrounds. The themes and story were greatly influenced by the works and philosophies of Friedrich Nietzsche, Sigmund Freud and Carl Jung. According to Tanaka, the reason for this correlation was simply due to a common interest with her husband. According to her, the story revolved around \"where do we come from, what are we, where are we going\". There was a large portion of story and artwork that did not make it into the final game. The game's second disc consisted mainly of narration by Fei and Elly of events following the party's escape from Solaris. While it was popularly assumed to be due to budget constraints, Takahashi later revealed the full reason; as his team was inexperienced they were unable to create the entire proposed game in the expected two-year development time, so instead of ending prematurely with the end of the first disc, Takahashi offered up a compromise which became the second disc's content, allowing the staff to finish the game within time and budget deadlines.\n\nSquare had announced that \"Xenogears\" may not have come out in the United States due to \"sensitive religious issues\". The English translation of \"Xenogears\" was the first instance in which an English localization team worked directly with Square developers. It also was the first major project of Square translator Richard Honeywood. According to Honeywood, translating the game was a particularly difficult task due to it containing numerous scientific concepts and philosophies. He came into contact with it because its previously assigned translators quit or asked for reassignment due to its challenge. In a later interview, Honeywood stated that the biggest issue was with the multiple religious references, and the concept at the end of \"killing God\", which needed to be adjusted so that it remained faithful to the original premise while stepping around some content that might offend. Honeywood unintentionally had a hand in the Japanese naming of Deus: the staff were originally going to call it Yahweh, and during his argument against it he said \"yabeh-o\", a Japanese phrase meaning something dangerous. Seeing it as a good pun, the staff used Yabeh as the name.\n\nSquare Enix released \"Xenogears\" on the Japanese PlayStation Network on June 25, 2008 and in North America on February 22, 2011.\n\nThe music in \"Xenogears\" was composed, arranged, and produced by Yasunori Mitsuda, his first major project since the 1995 Super NES title, \"Chrono Trigger\". The \"Xenogears Original Soundtrack\" was released on two discs and published by DigiCube in Japan in 1998. The score contains 41 instrumental tracks, in addition to a choral track and two songs. According to Mitsuda, the music of \"Xenogears\" belongs to the traditional music genre. Though he first described it as stemming from \"a world of [his] own imagining\" rather than any specific country, he has also claimed a strong Irish or Celtic music influence. There are two vocal tracks included on the OST, and both are sung by Joanne Hogg. One of the tracks, \"Stars of Tears\", did not appear in the final version of the game. It was originally intended to play in a cut scene at the start of the game along with the main staff credits. The scene, however, was removed for pacing issues, as it would have made the combined opening movie and introduction scenes last roughly ten minutes. The other, \"Small Two of Pieces ~Screeching Shards~\", was the first ending theme with lyrics to ever appear in a game developed by Square.\n\nAn arranged soundtrack of \"Xenogears\" also composed and arranged by Mitsuda was released as \"Creid\". For \"Creid\", he expanded on the theme from the original album of having Celtic influences in \"easy-to-listen-to\" pop tracks to create an album of arranged \"Xenogears\" music with a more prominent Celtic style. The album contains a mixture of vocal and instrumental tracks, and combines Japanese and Celtic music together in its pieces. The album features five vocal tracks and five instrumental tracks. The main lyricist, Junko Kudo, wrote the lyrics to four of the five vocal tracks, while Mitsuda wrote the lyrics to the title track, which were then translated from Japanese to Gaelic for the recording. Celtic singer Joanne Hogg did not reprise her role in \"Creid\". Instead, Tetsuko Honma sang the four tracks written by Kudo, while Eimear Quinn sang \"Creid\". \"\", an album of music from the game arranged orchestrally by Mitsuda's own music company Procyon Studio, was released on CD and vinyl in February 2011.\n\nA Blu-ray album entitled \"Xenogears Original Soundtrack Revival Disc - the first and the last -\" was released in Japan on April 4, 2018. The album is a remaster of the original soundtrack, plus outtakes and other content. A 20th anniversary concert was held in Tokyo, Japan on April 7 and 8, 2018.\n\nThere have been several Japanese books and comics published concerning the \"Xenogears\" franchise. \"Xenogears God Slaying Story\", a series by Masatoshi Kusakabe, was published by Shueisha in 1998. DigiCube published both \"Xenogears Perfect Works\" and a memorial album named \"Thousands of Daggers\", which contains the entire script to the game in Japanese, along with screenshots. Two manga books, \"Xenogears Comic Anthology\" and \"Xenogears 4koma Comic\", were released by Movic. Movic also released wallscrolls, notebooks, pins, keychains, stickers, and postcards depicting the \"Xenogears\" cast.\n\n\"Xenogears\" was a commercial success in both Japan and North America. It sold over 890,000 copies in Japan by the end of 1998. As of March 31, 2003, the game had shipped 1.19 million copies worldwide, with 910,000 of those copies being shipped in Japan and 280,000 abroad. As a result of these sales, it was re-released as a Greatest Hits title in December 2003. In Japanese gaming magazine \"Famitsu\", \"Xenogears\" was voted the 16th best video game of all time by its readers in a poll held in 2006. On a similar poll at GameFAQs, users of the website voted \"Xenogears\" the 32nd \"Best Game Ever\" in 2005. It was placed in the same position in IGN's \"Top 100 Games - Readers Choice\" feature in 2006, and as number 28 in 2008.\n\n\"Xenogears\" was met with critical acclaim. \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" praised the story, characters, gameplay, graphics, and soundtrack. IGN described it as the \"hands-down best RPG\" of the year, praising the storyline, gameplay, graphics, presentation, and soundtrack. GameSpot described it as one of Squaresoft's best role-playing games, praising the story, gameplay, and audio, but criticized the lack of graphical polish. Allgame pointed out in a positive light that the character battles are \"unlike most role-playing games from this company\". Retrospectively, \"Edge\" commented that although it is \"considered by some to be a multimillion-yen, convoluted science-fiction vanity project, \"Xenogears\" nevertheless remains one of the most keenly eulogized PlayStation RPGs.\" The magazine also noted that it was Takahashi's \"most challenging and pure work\" and that the \"Xenosaga\" series never quite matched up to \"Xenogears\".\n\nThe game's story and characters were well received. \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" said it is \"rich in story and character development.\" \"Game Informer\" and \"Next Generation\" agreed that the plot was one of the game's highlights, the former drawing comparisons to \"Star Wars\", \"Star Blazers\", the Old Testament, and many other Square games, making it \"a game every RPG fanatic must play.\" IGN said the storyline is intricate, engrossing, \"deep, complex, and once in a while even confusing, until more of the real underlying plotline is uncovered.\" GameSpot said the story is \"excellent\" and \"thought-provoking\" but said it can be \"a little preachy at times\", but went on to say that the religious and existential themes \"enhance the story and [our] understanding of the game's deep characterizations\". Game Revolution described the storyline as \"epic\" and \"fabulous\" with \"many twists and turns\" and a large cast of characters. RPGFan said \"the story is unique and probably the most complex and interesting of any RPG\", giving it a 99% rating for the story. Retrospectively, \"Edge\" praised the plot's scope and ambition and the protagonist as the \"most complicated Freudian hero\" in video games, but said it has a \"flawed\" script and \"muddied\" translation, as well as too many cut scenes, especially on the second disc, where the use of the world map is restricted for an extended period and the amount of cut scenes increases. Years after the game's release, Jeremy Parish of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" called the game's plot \"one of the wackiest game plotlines ever\", but said that it \"actually makes sense\" if the player ignores all of the sideplots. IGN, however, stated that despite having too many cut scenes and a sometimes confusing plot, \"immersion is a key factor in \"Xenogears\" and the questions you may have about the storyline are all answered at some point in the game.\" Following the PSN release, RPGFan's James Quentin Clark said \"Xenogears\" has \"hands down the best single story I have seen in any video game,\" giving it a 100% rating for the story.\n\nReviewers largely praised \"Xenogears\"' gameplay. \"Next Generation\" praised Square's Active Time Battle gauge and said that inclusion of the AP meter and combo attacks \"is not only refreshing in a turn-based RPG, but gives players a higher level of interaction during battle.\" IGN claimed that \"the most impressive feature in combat is the ability to use massive \"Gears\" or mechs\", noting that Square's attention to programming these battles is made evident by how \"visually satisfying\" they are. IGN praised the game's exploration, saying that the ability to jump and climb \"adds even more depth to exploration of different environments and distances Xenogears from being too straightforward of a traditional RPG\", the only complaint being that the rotating camera is sometimes \"clumsy\".\n\nThe soundtrack was well received. \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" said the game sounds as \"beautiful\" as it looks. GameSpot said it \"expertly uses audio to push the story along\" and noted that many of the games' tracks \"include voice or chanting and all are appropriately uppity or low with the game's mood\", but said there were many areas with silence or ambience making the \"game's soundtrack a tad sparse.\" \"Xenogears\" was the first Square game to feature voice overs and anime cut scenes. \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" said they are \"some of the slickest animation cinemas\" they have seen. Game Revolution praised the \"absolutely spectacular and stunning\" hand-drawn anime cut-scenes, but stated that they were sparse and poorly synched with the voice acting.\n\nShortly after \"Xenogears\" was released, there was speculation of a sequel being released, although this never occurred. In 1999, Tanaka said that a project related to \"Xenogears\" was being developed. He also revealed that a sequel to \"Xenogears\" was initially planned, but never came to be. While \"Xenogears\" has never had an official sequel or prequel, there was wide speculation that Namco and Monolith Soft's \"Xenosaga\" was a prequel when it was first announced. Tetsuya Takahashi was the director and writer for both \"Xenogears\" and \"Xenosaga\" and has noted that \"with our relation between Square, I think it is difficult for us to say it is a direct sequel or prequel\". Approximately twenty members of the \"Xenosaga\" development staff had previously worked on \"Xenogears\".\n\nOn the connection between \"Xenogears\" and \"Xenosaga\", Takahashi has stated:It's probably more suitable to say that it follows the direction and style of \"Xenogears\". [...] Now that we are under a different company, we figured we should start everything from scratch all over again. Though there are familiar faces that serve as important characters in \"Xenosaga\", others are more like self-parodies, so we don't really want \"Xenogears\" fans to overreact. Like movies, sometimes you have the director of the movie or friend of the leading actor appearing as cameos, so it's similar to that.\n\nSeveral members of the \"Xenogears\" staff came together in 2008 to work on \"Sands of Destruction\", a role-playing game published by Sega for the Nintendo DS. These staff members include Masato Kato, Kunihiko Tanaka, and Yasunori Mitsuda. In 2017, gears from the game, along with avatars of Fei and Bart, were included as pre-order cosmetic bonuses in Square Enix's mecha shooting game, \"Figureheads\".\n\n"}
