{"id": "48760683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48760683", "title": "1990 Bangkok gas explosion", "text": "1990 Bangkok gas explosion\n\nThe gas explosion on New Phetchaburi Road in Bangkok was a major disaster in Thailand. It took place on 24 September 1990, when a liquid petroleum gas tanker truck crashed on the expressway exit at New Phetchaburi Road, causing large explosions and fires that burned through 38 shophouses for over 24 hours. 90 people died, 121 were injured and 43 cars were destroyed, making it one of the deadliest man-made disasters in Thailand.\n\n"}
{"id": "19988318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19988318", "title": "1998 California Proposition 6", "text": "1998 California Proposition 6\n\nProposition 6 was an initiative statute that appeared on the November 3, 1998 California general election ballot. It was passed with 4,670,524 \"Yes\" votes, for 59.4 percent of the total votes cast. The proposition added sections 598c and 598d to the California Penal Code, making it a felony for any person in the state to possess, transfer, receive, or hold a horse (defined to include ponies, donkeys and mules) with the intent to kill it, or have it killed, where the person knows, or should have known, that any part of the carcass will be used for human consumption. An additional provision makes it a misdemeanor to sell horseflesh within the state as meat intended for human consumption. The law further allows for anyone previously convicted of selling horsemeat to be charged with a felony in any future prosecutions for the same offense. Only about one percent of California horses were previously slaughtered for horsemeat, primarily for export to markets in Belgium, France, Italy, and Japan. Horsemeat is rarely eaten by people in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33206803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33206803", "title": "2011 Chile blackout", "text": "2011 Chile blackout\n\nThe 2011 Chile blackout was a major power outage that occurred on 24 September 2011, approximately between 20:30 and 21:45 local time (23:30 and 00:45 UTC respectively), although the time of reinstatement varied geographically. It mainly affected the regions from Coquimbo to Maule, where the blackout was total, but it also reportedly partially affected the Atacama and Bío Bío regions. The blackout affected approximately nine million Chileans.\n\nThe cause of the blackout, which started at 20:30 local time (), was later determined to be equipment failure at an electrical substation. Rodrigo Álvarez Zenteno, Minister of Energy, noted a computer system malfunction and \"oscillation problems\" affecting two power lines. The blackout interrupted mobile phone service and forced the evacuation of thousands of rail and rapid transit passengers in Santiago, the capital city. It also delayed a concert by pop singer Ricky Martin A supermarket in Quilicura was looted, and a youth was wounded during a confrontation between the looters and police.\n\nThe outage affected operations at a number of copper mines, of which Chile is the world's top producer. The Los Bronces mine, operated by Anglo American, halted production temporarily and later, with power from generators, resumed at one-third capacity. CODELCO, Chile's state-owned copper mining company, reported that its Andina division and the El Teniente mine had lost power but continued operations using generators until power was restored.\n\nOn 6 December 2011, the Chile regulatory authority Superintendency of Electricity and Fuels (SEC) determined that the cause of the blackout was an electrical short circuit in a 220 Kilovolt capacitor bank at the Ancoa electrical substation which is located in Linares, Chile, and the subsequent malfunction of the associated protective relay equipment that should have prevented the cascading failure. SEC also determined that the time needed to restore power was prolonged by both procedural and equipment issues.\n\nAs a result of the investigation, SEC has assessed charges against the following four power companies; Transelec, Endesa (Chile), Colbún S.A., and Chilectra.\n\nThe Superintendent of the SEC, Luis Avila Bravo, said \"we are making charges for not maintaining the equipment in good condition, which ultimately represents a threat to the power system security as well as for problems in applying the procedures used to restore the supply of power \".\n\nAvila added that companies now have 15 days to respond to the charges, after which the SEC may determine sanctions, and possible fines of up to 10,000 AWU (approx. $9M US) although the final amount will depend on the merits of each investigation.\n\n"}
{"id": "34195578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34195578", "title": "2011 submarine cable disruption", "text": "2011 submarine cable disruption\n\n2011 submarine cable disruption refers to two incidents of submarine communications cables cut off on 25 December 2011. The first cut off occurred to SEA-ME-WE 3 at Suez canal, Egypt and the second cut off occurred to i2i which took place between Chennai, India and Singapore line. Both the incidents had caused the internet disruptions and slowdowns for users in the South Asia and Middle East in particular UAE.\n\n"}
{"id": "6809626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6809626", "title": "Adequacy.org", "text": "Adequacy.org\n\nAdequacy.org was a satirical web site. It featured articles on politics, religion, technology, history, and sociology, as well as the \"Linux Zealot\" cartoon series. The site shut down on September 11, 2002, but has since made its archives available.\n\nAdequacy.org's slogan was \"News for grown-ups,\" a play on the slogan of the popular Slashdot technology news site, \"News for nerds. Stuff that matters,\" as an Adequacy's founding editor claimed to have been a regular troll on Slashdot. \n\nThe Adequacy authors began as trolls on Slashdot and Kuro5hin, other technology-oriented discussion sites. They devised and posted many comments designed to provoke outraged responses; common styles included slighting a revered operating system or open source leader, or posting messages with simple but deliberate technical errors, which would incite hundreds of corrections.\n\nAfter several years of such behavior, the Adequacy authors decided to open their own site consisting entirely of such articles intended to incite the reader, where users \"in the know\" would post comments agreeing with the articles.\n\nBehind the scenes, the targets of the articles would be enticed to come to Adequacy and read the article. Adequacy members would post to weblogs, and other discussion forums, often pretending to be outraged by the article themselves. As an example, the article Not Just Harmless Fun , which argues that all anime is hentai and is designed to destroy Christian morals, was promoted on Usenet as such: \"the author is some kind of Christian lunatic who believes that anime is all about paedophilia!\". The person behind this Usenet posting was James \"spiralx\" Skinner, also known as \"Jon Erikson\", the author of the article in question. He later stated, \"I wrote the article to wind up anime-loving geeks.\"\n\nA popular device used in Adequacy articles was to hyperlink almost every word or phrase to another article on the Internet, related to the specific word or phrase linked, often humorously, but meaningless in the context of the article. Confined perspectives concerning subjects such as the British Empire were openly mocked; or the sentence \"we survived a hardy winter\" might have the word \"hardy\" linked to an article on Laurel and Hardy. Adequacy would also occasionally hyperlink to itself using words like \"controversy\" or phrases such as \"the world's most controversial web site\".\n\nAdequacy would often deliberately misspell the targets of its satire. For example, Linux was always written as \"Lunix\", which has connotations of \"lunatics\" (although this spelling was already widely used in humorous contexts elsewhere, notably by Jeff K). Linus Torvalds was written as either \"Linux Torvalds\", \"Lunix Torvaldez\" or \"Linyos Torovoltos\", and claimed to be a native of various countries, most often Russia. There were also technological in-jokes such as the idea of \"IP Tokens\" which could be stolen by hackers and used for nefarious purposes if you didn't have the correct protection mechanisms. This predated genuine \"your computer is broadcasting an IP address!\" web adverts which try to scare people into buying firewalls.\n\nMany respondents to Adequacy used the point by point rebuttal format for raising their objections. For a brief period, Adequacy responded to such comments by removing them from public view and replacing them with a \"Deletion Notice\", which contained only their consequently incoherent responses, together with a copyright violation notice, chastising the poster for reproducing the entirety of the contested article without the author's permission. This was termed a \"War on Copyright Violation\", perhaps as a satirical reference to the War on Drugs or War on Terrorism.\n\nAs was the case for many humor-oriented Web sites, the mood on Adequacy was considerably more somber in the immediate aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in New York City and Washington, DC. Consequently, Adequacy published many \"straight\" stories related to the attacks. One of the earliest satires of the global terrorism phenomenon to appear on the Internet, John Montoya's \"Why The Bombings Mean That We Must Support My Politics\", actually ridiculed the politicians and pundits who used the attacks as a platform to advance their particular views. Although the story contained no specific names, it was intended as a response to technology evangelist Eric S. Raymond, who had opined on the evening following the attacks that armed civilians on the airliners could have averted the attacks and that the \"lawmakers who disarmed all the non-terrorists on those four airplanes\" were in part responsible for them. Raymond's comments, published mere hours after the attacks had taken place, generated widespread outrage, even among those who otherwise supported his role as an open source spokesman.\n\nThe \"Adequacy\" story, which was initially published on September 12, was its most popular post-9/11 story and was eventually syndicated by \"AlterNet\" on October 2, 2001, causing it to be mentioned by a number of online news and discussion sites. The piece was also mentioned in The Industry Standard, wherein commentator Keith Dawson referred to it as \"a brilliant height of satire\".\n\nIn a return to more traditional fare, \"Adequacy\" used the October 2001 anthrax attacks against U.S. politicians and media figures as an occasion to petition the thrash metal band Anthrax to change their name. (The suggested replacement chosen by readers was \"Basket Full Of Puppies\".) The posted story implied that the band was engaged in \"tasteless, juvenile antics\" and that their name had been recently chosen in order to capitalize on the media coverage of the attacks. This prompted an angry response from Scott Ian, the band's rhythm guitarist:\nSome asshole from something called the \"Adequacy Org\". e-mailed us demanding that we change our name. The guy is clueless. He talks about our new album called Spreading The Disease, calls us Grind Core, Death Metal and Speed Metal. He thinks we named the band last week to 'take advantage of this horrific situation.' Last week...twenty years ago... No big difference there. What a jackass.\nAdequacy first gained widespread Internet notoriety after the December 2, 2001 publication of a story entitled \"Is Your Son a Computer Hacker?\" The story was engineered to raise the hackles of as wide a swath of the Internet geek community as possible; it lampooned such topics as the Linux operating system, processors from Advanced Micro Devices, online gaming, and rave culture. Furor over the story spread quickly through technology / gaming blogs and Usenet newsgroups , and visitors came to the site in droves to express their opinions. The story received an official count of 5,913 individual comments, not including several thousand more that were hidden by the \"Adequacy\" editors. This figure even exceeds the record of the much more heavily visited \"Slashdot\", which (as of November 21, 2006) stands at 5,687 replies to the story \"Kerry Concedes Election to Bush\".\n\nThe publicity of the hacker story reached its highest point on January 7, 2002, when \"Adequacy\" was featured as the \"Site of the Night\" on the \"TechTV\" television program The Screen Savers. Hosts Leo Laporte and Martin Sargent discussed the \"warning signs\" enumerated in the article individually, and while Laporte seemed inclined to believe that the article was a joke, neither was ultimately sure of what to make of it. \"Is this a joke?\" asked Laporte incredulously, to which Sargent replied \"Do you think? I don't know. I can't tell.\"\n\nOn October 23, 2001, \"Adequacy\" published an interview with actor Wil Wheaton which consisted mostly of questions poking fun of his stint as Wesley Crusher on the television program \"\". Wheaton, being familiar with the nature of the site, was willing to \"play along\" and provide the outrageous questions with equally outrageous answers. However, many of the readers of his own blog were not familiar with \"Adequacy\" and were dismayed over the answers that he had provided; Wheaton later expressed regret for doing the interview.\n\nIn April 2002, ex-stripper and \"Playboy\" model Koleen Brooks made national news when the voters of the town of Georgetown, Colorado voted to recall her from her position as the town's mayor, citing conduct \"unbecoming an elected official\". Brooks granted an interview with \"Adequacy\" wherein she discussed her performance as mayor and the circumstances surrounding her recall. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "42898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42898", "title": "Anthrax", "text": "Anthrax\n\nAnthrax is an infection caused by the bacterium \"Bacillus anthracis\". It can occur in four forms: skin, lungs, intestinal, and injection. Symptoms begin between one day and two months after the infection is contracted. The skin form presents with a small blister with surrounding swelling that often turns into a painless ulcer with a black center. The inhalation form presents with fever, chest pain, and shortness of breath. The intestinal form presents with diarrhea which may contain blood, abdominal pains, and nausea and vomiting. The injection form presents with fever and an abscess at the site of drug injection.\nAnthrax is spread by contact with the bacterium's spores, which often appear in infectious animal products. Contact is by breathing, eating, or through an area of broken skin. It does not typically spread directly between people. Risk factors include people who work with animals or animal products, travelers, postal workers, and military personnel. Diagnosis can be confirmed based on finding antibodies or the toxin in the blood or by culture of a sample from the infected site.\nAnthrax vaccination is recommended for people who are at high risk of infection. Immunizing animals against anthrax is recommended in areas where previous infections have occurred. Two months of antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, and doxycycline after exposure can also prevent infection. If infection occurs treatment is with antibiotics and possibly antitoxin. The type and number of antibiotics used depends on the type of infection. Antitoxin is recommended for those with widespread infection.\nAlthough a rare disease, human anthrax, when it does occur, is most common in Africa and central and southern Asia. It also occurs more regularly in Southern Europe than elsewhere on the continent, and is uncommon in Northern Europe and North America. Globally, at least 2,000 cases occur a year with about two cases a year in the United States. Skin infections represent more than 95% of cases. Without treatment, the risk of death from skin anthrax is 24%. For intestinal infection, the risk of death is 25 to 75%, while respiratory anthrax has a mortality of 50 to 80%, even with treatment. Until the 20th century, anthrax infections killed hundreds of thousands of people and animals each year. Anthrax has been developed as a weapon by a number of countries. In plant-eating animals, infection occurs when they eat or breathe in the spores while grazing. Carnivores may become infected by eating infected animals.\n\nCutaneous anthrax, also known as Hide porter's disease, is when anthrax occurs on the skin. It is the most common form (>90% of anthrax cases). It is also the least dangerous form of anthrax (low mortality with treatment, 20% mortality without). Cutaneous anthrax presents as a boil-like skin lesion that eventually forms an ulcer with a black center (eschar). The black eschar often shows up as a large, painless, necrotic ulcer (beginning as an irritating and itchy skin lesion or blister that is dark and usually concentrated as a black dot, somewhat resembling bread mold) at the site of infection. In general, cutaneous infections form within the site of spore penetration between two and five days after exposure. Unlike bruises or most other lesions, cutaneous anthrax infections normally do not cause pain. Nearby lymph nodes may become infected, reddened, swollen, and painful. A scab forms over the lesion soon, and falls off in a few weeks. Complete recovery may take longer.\nCutaneous anthrax is typically caused when \"B. anthracis\" spores enter through cuts on the skin. This form is found most commonly when humans handle infected animals and/or animal products.\n\nCutaneous anthrax is rarely fatal if treated, because the infection area is limited to the skin, preventing the lethal factor, edema factor, and protective antigen from entering and destroying a vital organ. Without treatment, about 20% of cutaneous skin infection cases progress to toxemia and death.\n\nRespiratory infection in humans is relatively rare and presents as two stages. It infects the lymph nodes in the chest first, rather than the lungs themselves, a condition called hemorrhagic mediastinitis, causing bloody fluid to accumulate in the chest cavity, therefore causing shortness of breath. The first stage causes cold and flu-like symptoms. Symptoms include fever, shortness of breath, cough, fatigue, and chills. This can last hours to days. Often, many fatalities from inhalational anthrax are when the first stage is mistaken for the cold or flu and the victim does not seek treatment until the second stage, which is 90% fatal. The second (pneumonia) stage occurs when the infection spreads from the lymph nodes to the lungs. Symptoms of the second stage develop suddenly after hours or days of the first stage. Symptoms include high fever, extreme shortness of breath, shock, and rapid death within 48 hours in fatal cases. Historical mortality rates were over 85%, but when treated early (seen in the 2001 anthrax attacks), observed case fatality rate dropped to 45%. Distinguishing pulmonary anthrax from more common causes of respiratory illness is essential to avoiding delays in diagnosis and thereby improving outcomes. An algorithm for this purpose has been developed.\n\nGastrointestinal (GI) infection is most often caused by consuming anthrax-infected meat and is characterized by diarrhea, potentially with blood, abdominal pains, acute inflammation of the intestinal tract, and loss of appetite. Occasional vomiting of blood can occur. Lesions have been found in the intestines and in the mouth and throat. After the bacterium invades the gastrointestinal system, it spreads to the bloodstream and throughout the body, while continuing to make toxins. GI infections can be treated, but usually result in fatality rates of 25% to 60%, depending upon how soon treatment commences. This form of anthrax is the rarest form.\n\n\"Bacillus anthracis\" is a rod-shaped, Gram-positive, aerobic bacterium about 1 by 9 μm in size. It was shown to cause disease by Robert Koch in 1876 when he took a blood sample from an infected cow, isolated the bacteria, and put them into a mouse. The bacterium normally rests in spore form in the soil, and can survive for decades in this state. Herbivores are often infected whilst grazing, especially when eating rough, irritant, or spiky vegetation; the vegetation has been hypothesized to cause wounds within the gastrointestinal tract permitting entry of the bacterial spores into the tissues, though this has not been proven. Once ingested or placed in an open wound, the bacteria begin multiplying inside the animal or human and typically kill the host within a few days or weeks. The spores germinate at the site of entry into the tissues and then spread by the circulation to the lymphatics, where the bacteria multiply.\n\nThe production of two powerful exotoxins and lethal toxin by the bacteria causes death. Veterinarians can often tell a possible anthrax-induced death by its sudden occurrence, and by the dark, nonclotting blood that oozes from the body orifices. Most anthrax bacteria inside the body after death are outcompeted and destroyed by anaerobic bacteria within minutes to hours \"post mortem\". However, anthrax vegetative bacteria that escape the body via oozing blood or through the opening of the carcass may form hardy spores. These vegetative bacteria are not contagious. One spore forms per one vegetative bacterium. The triggers for spore formation are not yet known, though oxygen tension and lack of nutrients may play roles. Once formed, these spores are very hard to eradicate.\n\nThe infection of herbivores (and occasionally humans) by the inhalational route normally proceeds as follows: Once the spores are inhaled, they are transported through the air passages into the tiny air sacs (alveoli) in the lungs. The spores are then picked up by scavenger cells (macrophages) in the lungs and are transported through small vessels (lymphatics) to the lymph nodes in the central chest cavity (mediastinum). Damage caused by the anthrax spores and bacilli to the central chest cavity can cause chest pain and difficulty in breathing. Once in the lymph nodes, the spores germinate into active bacilli that multiply and eventually burst the macrophages, releasing many more bacilli into the bloodstream to be transferred to the entire body. Once in the blood stream, these bacilli release three proteins named lethal factor, edema factor, and protective antigen. The three are not toxic by themselves, but their combination is incredibly lethal to humans. Protective antigen combines with these other two factors to form lethal toxin and edema toxin, respectively. These toxins are the primary agents of tissue destruction, bleeding, and death of the host. If antibiotics are administered too late, even if the antibiotics eradicate the bacteria, some hosts still die of toxemia because the toxins produced by the bacilli remain in their system at lethal dose levels.\n\nThe spores of anthrax are able to survive in harsh conditions for decades or even centuries. Such spores can be found on all continents, including Antarctica. Disturbed grave sites of infected animals have been known to cause infection after 70 years.\n\nOccupational exposure to infected animals or their products (such as skin, wool, and meat) is the usual pathway of exposure for humans. Workers who are exposed to dead animals and animal products are at the highest risk, especially in countries where anthrax is more common. Anthrax in livestock grazing on open range where they mix with wild animals still occasionally occurs in the United States and elsewhere. Many workers who deal with wool and animal hides are routinely exposed to low levels of anthrax spores, but most exposure levels are not sufficient to develop anthrax infections. A lethal infection is reported to result from inhalation of about 10,000–20,000 spores, though this dose varies among host species. Little documented evidence is available to verify the exact or average number of spores needed for infection.\n\nHistorically, inhalational anthrax was called woolsorters' disease because it was an occupational hazard for people who sorted wool. Today, this form of infection is extremely rare in advanced nations, as almost no infected animals remain.\n\nAnthrax can enter the human body through the intestines (ingestion), lungs (inhalation), or skin (cutaneous) and causes distinct clinical symptoms based on its site of entry. In general, an infected human will be quarantined. However, anthrax does not usually spread from an infected human to a noninfected human. But, if the disease is fatal to the person's body, its mass of anthrax bacilli becomes a potential source of infection to others and special precautions should be used to prevent further contamination. Inhalational anthrax, if left untreated until obvious symptoms occur, is usually fatal.\n\nAnthrax can be contracted in laboratory accidents or by handling infected animals, their wool or their hides. It has also been used in biological warfare agents and by terrorists to intentionally infect as exemplified by the 2001 anthrax attacks.\n\nThe lethality of the anthrax disease is due to the bacterium's two principal virulence factors: the poly-D-glutamic acid capsule, which protects the bacterium from phagocytosis by host neutrophils, and the tripartite protein toxin, called anthrax toxin. Anthrax toxin is a mixture of three protein components: protective antigen (PA), edema factor (EF), and lethal factor (LF). PA plus LF produces lethal toxin, and PA plus EF produces edema toxin. These toxins cause death and tissue swelling (edema), respectively.\n\nTo enter the cells, the edema and lethal factors use another protein produced by \"B. anthracis\" called protective antigen, which binds to two surface receptors on the host cell. A cell protease then cleaves PA into two fragments: PA and PA. PA dissociates into the extracellular medium, playing no further role in the toxic cycle. PA then oligomerizes with six other PA fragments forming a heptameric ring-shaped structure named a prepore. Once in this shape, the complex can competitively bind up to three EFs or LFs, forming a resistant complex. Receptor-mediated endocytosis occurs next, providing the newly formed toxic complex access to the interior of the host cell. The acidified environment within the endosome triggers the heptamer to release the LF and/or EF into the cytosol. It is unknown how exactly the complex results in the death of the cell.\n\nEdema factor is a calmodulin-dependent adenylate cyclase. Adenylate cyclase catalyzes the conversion of ATP into cyclic AMP (cAMP) and pyrophosphate. The complexation of adenylate cyclase with calmodulin removes calmodulin from stimulating calcium-triggered signaling, thus inhibiting the immune response. To be specific, LF inactivates neutrophils (a type of phagocytic cell) by the process just described so they cannot phagocytose bacteria. Throughout history, lethal factor was presumed to cause macrophages to make TNF-alpha and interleukin 1, beta (IL1B). TNF-alpha is a cytokine whose primary role is to regulate immune cells, as well as to induce inflammation and apoptosis or programmed cell death. Interleukin 1, beta is another cytokine that also regulates inflammation and apoptosis. The overproduction of TNF-alpha and IL1B ultimately leads to septic shock and death. However, recent evidence indicates anthrax also targets endothelial cells that line serous cavities such as the pericardial cavity, pleural cavity, and peritoneal cavity, lymph vessels, and blood vessels, causing vascular leakage of fluid and cells, and ultimately hypovolemic shock and septic shock.\n\nVarious techniques may be used for the direct identification of \"B. anthracis\" in clinical material. Firstly, specimens may be Gram stained. \"Bacillus\" spp. are quite large in size (3 to 4 μm long), they may grow in long chains, and they stain Gram-positive. To confirm the organism is \"B. anthracis\", rapid diagnostic techniques such as polymerase chain reaction-based assays and immunofluorescence microscopy may be used.\n\nAll \"Bacillus\" species grow well on 5% sheep blood agar and other routine culture media. Polymyxin-lysozyme-EDTA-thallous acetate can be used to isolate \"B. anthracis\" from contaminated specimens, and bicarbonate agar is used as an identification method to induce capsule formation. \"Bacillus\" spp. usually grow within 24 hours of incubation at 35 °C, in ambient air (room temperature) or in 5% CO. If bicarbonate agar is used for identification, then the medium must be incubated in 5% CO. \"B. anthracis\" colonies are medium-large, gray, flat, and irregular with swirling projections, often referred to as having a \"medusa head\" appearance, and are not hemolytic on 5% sheep blood agar. The bacteria are not motile, susceptible to penicillin, and produce a wide zone of lecithinase on egg yolk agar. Confirmatory testing to identify \"B. anthracis\" includes gamma bacteriophage testing, indirect hemagglutination, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to detect antibodies. The best confirmatory precipitation test for anthrax is the Ascoli test.\n\nIf a person is suspected as having died from anthrax, precautions should be taken to avoid skin contact with the potentially contaminated body and fluids exuded through natural body openings. The body should be put in strict quarantine. A blood sample should then be collected and sealed in a container and analyzed in an approved laboratory to ascertain if anthrax is the cause of death. Then, the body should be incinerated. Microscopic visualization of the encapsulated bacilli, usually in very large numbers, in a blood smear stained with polychrome methylene blue (McFadyean stain) is fully diagnostic, though culture of the organism is still the gold standard for diagnosis. Full isolation of the body is important to prevent possible contamination of others. Protective, impermeable clothing and equipment such as rubber gloves, rubber apron, and rubber boots with no perforations should be used when handling the body. No skin, especially if it has any wounds or scratches, should be exposed. Disposable personal protective equipment is preferable, but if not available, decontamination can be achieved by autoclaving. Disposable personal protective equipment and filters should be autoclaved, and/or burned and buried. Anyone working with anthrax in a suspected or confirmed person should wear respiratory equipment capable of filtering particles of their size or smaller. The US National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health – and Mine Safety and Health Administration-approved high-efficiency respirator, such as a half-face disposable respirator with a high-efficiency particulate air filter, is recommended. All possibly contaminated bedding or clothing should be isolated in double plastic bags and treated as possible biohazard waste. The body of an infected person should be sealed in an airtight body bag. Dead people who are opened and not burned provide an ideal source of anthrax spores. Cremating people is the preferred way of handling body disposal. No embalming or autopsy should be attempted without a fully equipped biohazard laboratory and trained, knowledgeable personnel.\n\nVaccines against anthrax for use in livestock and humans have had a prominent place in the history of medicine. The French scientist Louis Pasteur developed the first effective vaccine in 1881. Human anthrax vaccines were developed by the Soviet Union in the late 1930s and in the US and UK in the 1950s. The current FDA-approved US vaccine was formulated in the 1960s.\n\nCurrently administered human anthrax vaccines include acellular (United States) and live vaccine (Russia) varieties. All currently used anthrax vaccines show considerable local and general reactogenicity (erythema, induration, soreness, fever) and serious adverse reactions occur in about 1% of recipients. The American product, BioThrax, is licensed by the FDA and was formerly administered in a six-dose primary series at 0, 2, 4 weeks and 6, 12, 18 months, with annual boosters to maintain immunity. In 2008, the FDA approved omitting the week-2 dose, resulting in the currently recommended five-dose series. New second-generation vaccines currently being researched include recombinant live vaccines and recombinant subunit vaccines. In the 20th century the use of a modern product (BioThrax) to protect American troops against the use of anthrax in biological warfare was controversial.\n\nPreventative antibiotics are recommended in those who have been exposed. Early detection of sources of anthrax infection can allow preventive measures to be taken. In response to the anthrax attacks of October 2001, the United States Postal Service (USPS) installed biodetection systems (BDSs) in their large-scale mail processing facilities. BDS response plans were formulated by the USPS in conjunction with local responders including fire, police, hospitals and public health. Employees of these facilities have been educated about anthrax, response actions, and prophylactic medication. Because of the time delay inherent in getting final verification that anthrax has been used, prophylactic antibiotic treatment of possibly exposed personnel must be started as soon as possible.\n\nAnthrax cannot be spread directly from person to person, but a person's clothing and body may be contaminated with anthrax spores. Effective decontamination of people can be accomplished by a thorough wash-down with antimicrobial soap and water. Waste water should be treated with bleach or another antimicrobial agent. Effective decontamination of articles can be accomplished by boiling them in water for 30 minutes or longer. Chlorine bleach is ineffective in destroying spores and vegetative cells on surfaces, though formaldehyde is effective. Burning clothing is very effective in destroying spores. After decontamination, there is no need to immunize, treat, or isolate contacts of persons ill with anthrax unless they were also exposed to the same source of infection.\n\nEarly antibiotic treatment of anthrax is essential; delay significantly lessens chances for survival.\n\nTreatment for anthrax infection and other bacterial infections includes large doses of intravenous and oral antibiotics, such as fluoroquinolones (ciprofloxacin), doxycycline, erythromycin, vancomycin, or penicillin. FDA-approved agents include ciprofloxacin, doxycycline, and penicillin.\n\nIn possible cases of pulmonary anthrax, early antibiotic prophylaxis treatment is crucial to prevent possible death.\n\nIn recent years, many attempts have been made to develop new drugs against anthrax, but existing drugs are effective if treatment is started soon enough.\n\nIn May 2009, Human Genome Sciences submitted a biologic license application (BLA, permission to market) for its new drug, raxibacumab (brand name ABthrax) intended for emergency treatment of inhaled anthrax. On 14 December 2012, the US Food and Drug Administration approved raxibacumab injection to treat inhalational anthrax. Raxibacumab is a monoclonal antibody that neutralizes toxins produced by \"B. anthracis\". On March, 2016, FDA approved a second anthrax treatment using a monoclonal antibody which neutralizes the toxins produced by \"B. anthracis\". Obiltoxaximab is approved to treat inhalational anthrax in conjunction with appropriate antibacterial drugs, and for prevention when alternative therapies are not available or appropriate.\n\nGlobally, at least 2,000 cases occur a year.\n\nThe last fatal case of natural inhalational anthrax in the United States occurred in California in 1976, when a home weaver died after working with infected wool imported from Pakistan. To minimize the chance of spreading the disease, the deceased was transported to UCLA in a sealed plastic body bag within a sealed metal container for autopsy.\n\nGastrointestinal anthrax is exceedingly rare in the United States, with two cases on record, the first was reported in 1942, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.\n\nDuring December 2009, the New Hampshire Department of Health and Human Services confirmed a case of gastrointestinal anthrax in an adult female. The CDC investigated the source and the possibility that it was contracted from an African drum recently used by the woman taking part in a drum circle. The woman apparently inhaled anthrax [in spore form] from the hide of the drum. She became critically ill, but with gastrointestinal anthrax rather than inhaled anthrax, which made her unique in American medical history. The building where the infection took place was cleaned and reopened to the public and the woman recovered. Jodie Dionne-Odom, New Hampshire state epidemiologist, stated, \"It is a mystery. We really don't know why it happened.\"\n\nIn November 2008, a drum maker in the United Kingdom who worked with untreated animal skins died from anthrax. In December 2009, an outbreak of anthrax occurred amongst heroin addicts in the Glasgow and Stirling areas of Scotland, resulting in 14 deaths. The source of the anthrax is believed to be dilution of the heroin with bone meal in Afghanistan.\n\nThe English name comes from \"anthrax\" (), the Greek word for coal, possibly having Egyptian etymology, because of the characteristic black skin lesions developed by victims with a cutaneous anthrax infection. The central, black eschar, surrounded by vivid red skin has long been recognised as typical of the disease. The first recorded use of the word \"anthrax\" in English is in a 1398 translation of Bartholomaeus Anglicus' work \"\" (\"On the Properties of Things\", 1240).\n\nAnthrax has been known by a wide variety of names, indicating its symptoms, location and groups considered most vulnerable to infection. These include Siberian plague, Cumberland disease, charbon, splenic fever, malignant edema, woolsorter's disease, and even \"\".\n\nRobert Koch, a German physician and scientist, first identified the bacterium that caused the anthrax disease in 1875 in Wolsztyn (now part of Poland). His pioneering work in the late 19th century was one of the first demonstrations that diseases could be caused by microbes. In a groundbreaking series of experiments, he uncovered the lifecycle and means of transmission of anthrax. His experiments not only helped create an understanding of anthrax, but also helped elucidate the role of microbes in causing illness at a time when debates still took place over spontaneous generation versus cell theory. Koch went on to study the mechanisms of other diseases and won the 1905 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his discovery of the bacterium causing tuberculosis.\n\nAlthough Koch arguably made the greatest theoretical contribution to our understanding of anthrax, other researchers were more concerned with the practical questions of how to prevent the disease. In Britain, where anthrax affected workers in the wool, worsted, hides and tanning industries, it was viewed with fear. John Henry Bell, a doctor based in Bradford, first made the link between the mysterious and deadly \"woolsorter's disease\" and anthrax, showing in 1878 that they were one and the same. In the early twentieth century, Friederich Wilhelm Eurich, the German bacteriologist who settled in Bradford with his family as a child, carried out important research for the local Anthrax Investigation Board. Eurich also made valuable contributions to a Home Office Departmental Committee of Inquiry, established in 1913 to address the continuing problem of industrial anthrax. His work in this capacity, much of it collaboration with the factory inspector G. Elmhirst Duckering, led directly to the Anthrax Prevention Act (1919).\n\nAnthrax posed a major economic challenge in France and elsewhere during the nineteenth century. Horses, cattle and sheep were particularly vulnerable, and national funds were set aside to investigate the production of a vaccine. The noted French scientist Louis Pasteur was charged with the production of a vaccine, following his successful work in developing methods which helped to protect the important wine and silk industries.\n\nIn May 1881, Pasteur – in collaboration with his assistants Jean-Joseph Henri Toussaint, Émile Roux and others – performed a public experiment at Pouilly-le-Fort to demonstrate his concept of vaccination. He prepared two groups of 25 sheep, one goat, and several cows. The animals of one group were injected with an anthrax vaccine prepared by Pasteur twice, at an interval of 15 days; the control group was left unvaccinated. Thirty days after the first injection, both groups were injected with a culture of live anthrax bacteria. All the animals in the unvaccinated group died, while all of the animals in the vaccinated group survived.\n\nAfter this apparent triumph, which was widely reported in the local, national and international press, Pasteur made strenuous efforts to export the vaccine beyond France. He used his celebrity status to establish Pasteur Institutes across Europe and Asia, and his nephew, Adrien Loir, travelled to Australia in 1888 to try and introduce the vaccine to combat anthrax in New South Wales. Ultimately the vaccine was unsuccessful in the challenging climate of rural Australia, and it was soon superseded by a more robust version developed by local researchers John Gunn and John McGarvie Smith.\n\nThe human vaccine for anthrax became available in 1954. This was a cell-free vaccine instead of the live-cell Pasteur-style vaccine used for veterinary purposes. An improved cell-free vaccine became available in 1970.\n\n\nAnthrax spores can survive for very long periods of time in the environment after release. Chemical methods for cleaning anthrax-contaminated sites or materials may use oxidizing agents such as peroxides, ethylene oxide, Sandia Foam, chlorine dioxide (used in the Hart Senate Office Building), peracetic acid, ozone gas, hypochlorous acid, sodium persulfate, and liquid bleach products containing sodium hypochlorite. Nonoxidizing agents shown to be effective for anthrax decontamination include methyl bromide, formaldehyde, and metam sodium. These agents destroy bacterial spores. All of the aforementioned anthrax decontamination technologies have been demonstrated to be effective in laboratory tests conducted by the US EPA or others.\nA bleach solution for treating hard surfaces has been approved by the EPA.\n\nChlorine dioxide has emerged as the preferred biocide against anthrax-contaminated sites, having been employed in the treatment of numerous government buildings over the past decade. Its chief drawback is the need for \"in situ\" processes to have the reactant on demand.\n\nTo speed the process, trace amounts of a nontoxic catalyst composed of iron and tetroamido macrocyclic ligands are combined with sodium carbonate and bicarbonate and converted into a spray. The spray formula is applied to an infested area and is followed by another spray containing tert-butyl hydroperoxide.\n\nUsing the catalyst method, a complete destruction of all anthrax spores can be achieved in under 30 minutes. A standard catalyst-free spray destroys fewer than half the spores in the same amount of time.\n\nCleanups at a Senate office building, several contaminated postal facilities, and other US government and private office buildings, a collaborative effort headed by the Environmental Protection Agency, showed decontamination to be possible but time-consuming and costly. Clearing the Senate office building of anthrax spores cost $27 million, according to the Government Accountability Office. Cleaning the Brentwood postal facility in Washington cost $130 million and took 26 months. Since then, newer and less costly methods have been developed.\n\nCleanup of anthrax-contaminated areas on ranches and in the wild is much more problematic. Carcasses may be burned, though it often takes up to three days to burn a large carcass and this is not feasible in areas with little wood. Carcasses may also be buried, though the burying of large animals deeply enough to prevent resurfacing of spores requires much manpower and expensive tools. Carcasses have been soaked in formaldehyde to kill spores, though this has environmental contamination issues. Block burning of vegetation in large areas enclosing an anthrax outbreak has been tried; this, while environmentally destructive, causes healthy animals to move away from an area with carcasses in search of fresh grass. Some wildlife workers have experimented with covering fresh anthrax carcasses with shadecloth and heavy objects. This prevents some scavengers from opening the carcasses, thus allowing the putrefactive bacteria within the carcass to kill the vegetative \"B. anthracis\" cells and preventing sporulation. This method also has drawbacks, as scavengers such as hyenas are capable of infiltrating almost any exclosure.\n\nThe experimental site at Gruinard Island is said to have been decontaminated with a mixture of formaldehyde and seawater by the Ministry of Defence. It is not clear whether similar treatments had been applied to US test sites.\n\nAnthrax spores have been used as a biological warfare weapon. Its first modern incidence occurred when Nordic rebels, supplied by the German General Staff, used anthrax with unknown results against the Imperial Russian Army in Finland in 1916. Anthrax was first tested as a biological warfare agent by Unit 731 of the Japanese Kwantung Army in Manchuria during the 1930s; some of this testing involved intentional infection of prisoners of war, thousands of whom died. Anthrax, designated at the time as Agent N, was also investigated by the Allies in the 1940s.\n\nA long history of practical bioweapons research exists in this area. For example, in 1942, British bioweapons trials severely contaminated Gruinard Island in Scotland with anthrax spores of the Vollum-14578 strain, making it a no-go area until it was decontaminated in 1990. The Gruinard trials involved testing the effectiveness of a submunition of an \"N-bomb\" a biological weapon containing dried anthrax spores. Additionally, five million \"cattle cakes\" (animal feed pellets impregnated with anthrax spores) were prepared and stored at Porton Down for \"Operation Vegetarian\" antilivestock attacks against Germany to be made by the Royal Air Force. The plan was for anthrax-based biological weapons to be dropped on Germany in 1944. However, the edible cattle cakes and the bomb were not used; the cattle cakes were incinerated in late 1945.\n\nWeaponized anthrax was part of the US stockpile prior to 1972, when the United States signed the Biological Weapons Convention. President Nixon ordered the dismantling of US biowarfare programs in 1969 and the destruction of all existing stockpiles of bioweapons. In 1978–79, the Rhodesian government used anthrax against cattle and humans during its campaign against rebels. The Soviet Union created and stored 100 to 200 tons of anthrax spores at Kantubek on Vozrozhdeniya Island. They were abandoned in 1992 and destroyed in 2002.\n\nAmerican military and British Army personnel are routinely vaccinated against anthrax prior to active service in places where biological attacks are considered a threat.\n\nDespite signing the 1972 agreement to end bioweapon production, the government of the Soviet Union had an active bioweapons program that included the production of hundreds of tons of weapons-grade anthrax after this period. On 2 April 1979, some of the over one million people living in Sverdlovsk (now called Ekaterinburg, Russia), about east of Moscow, were exposed to an accidental release of anthrax from a biological weapons complex located near there. At least 94 people were infected, of whom at least 68 died. One victim died four days after the release, 10 over an eight-day period at the peak of the deaths, and the last six weeks later. Extensive cleanup, vaccinations, and medical interventions managed to save about 30 of the victims. Extensive cover-ups and destruction of records by the KGB continued from 1979 until Russian President Boris Yeltsin admitted this anthrax accident in 1992. Jeanne Guillemin reported in 1999 that a combined Russian and United States team investigated the accident in 1992.\n\nNearly all of the night-shift workers of a ceramics plant directly across the street from the biological facility (compound 19) became infected, and most died. Since most were men, some NATO governments suspected the Soviet Union had developed a sex-specific weapon. The government blamed the outbreak on the consumption of anthrax-tainted meat, and ordered the confiscation of all uninspected meat that entered the city. They also ordered all stray dogs to be shot and people not have contact with sick animals. Also, a voluntary evacuation and anthrax vaccination program was established for people from 18–55.\n\nTo support the cover-up story, Soviet medical and legal journals published articles about an outbreak in livestock that caused GI anthrax in people having consumed infected meat, and cutaneous anthrax in people having come into contact with the animals. All medical and public health records were confiscated by the KGB. In addition to the medical problems the outbreak caused, it also prompted Western countries to be more suspicious of a covert Soviet bioweapons program and to increase their surveillance of suspected sites. In 1986, the US government was allowed to investigate the incident, and concluded the exposure was from aerosol anthrax from a military weapons facility. In 1992, President Yeltsin admitted he was \"absolutely certain\" that \"rumors\" about the Soviet Union violating the 1972 Bioweapons Treaty were true. The Soviet Union, like the US and UK, had agreed to submit information to the UN about their bioweapons programs, but omitted known facilities and never acknowledged their weapons program.\n\nIn theory, anthrax spores can be cultivated with minimal special equipment and a first-year collegiate microbiological education.\nTo make large amounts of an aerosol form of anthrax suitable for biological warfare requires extensive practical knowledge, training, and highly advanced equipment.\n\nConcentrated anthrax spores were used for bioterrorism in the 2001 anthrax attacks in the United States, delivered by mailing postal letters containing the spores. The letters were sent to several news media offices and two Democratic senators: Tom Daschle of South Dakota and Patrick Leahy of Vermont. As a result, 22 were infected and five died. Only a few grams of material were used in these attacks and in August 2008, the US Department of Justice announced they believed that Dr. Bruce Ivins, a senior biodefense researcher employed by the United States government, was responsible. These events also spawned many anthrax hoaxes.\n\nDue to these events, the US Postal Service installed biohazard detection systems at its major distribution centers to actively scan for anthrax being transported through the mail.\n\nIn response to the postal anthrax attacks and hoaxes, the United States Postal Service sterilized some mail using gamma irradiation and treatment with a proprietary enzyme formula supplied by Sipco Industries.\n\nA scientific experiment performed by a high school student, later published in \"The Journal of Medical Toxicology\", suggested a domestic electric iron at its hottest setting (at least ) used for at least 5 minutes should destroy all anthrax spores in a common postal envelope.\n\nAnthrax is especially rare in dogs and cats, as is evidenced by a single reported case in the United States in 2001. Anthrax outbreaks occur in some wild animal populations with some regularity.\n\nRussian researchers estimate arctic permafrost contains around 1.5 million anthrax-infected reindeer carcasses, and the spores may survive in the permafrost for 105 years. There is a risk that global warming in the Arctic can thaw the permafrost, releasing anthrax spores in the carcasses. In 2016, an anthrax outbreak in reindeer was linked to a 75-year-old carcass that defrosted during a heat wave.\n\n"}
{"id": "2446229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2446229", "title": "Beagle conflict", "text": "Beagle conflict\n\nThe Beagle conflict was a border dispute between Chile and Argentina over the possession of Picton, Lennox and Nueva islands and the scope of the maritime jurisdiction associated with those islands that brought the countries to the brink of war in 1978.\n\nThe islands are strategically located off the south edge of Tierra del Fuego and at the east end of the Beagle Channel. The Beagle Channel, the Straits of Magellan and the Drake Passage are the only three waterways between the Pacific Ocean and the Atlantic Ocean in the southern hemisphere.\n\nAfter refusing to abide by a binding international award giving the islands to Chile, the Argentine junta advanced the nation to war in 1978 in order to produce a boundary consistent with Argentine claims.\n\nThe Beagle conflict is seen as the main reason for Chilean support to the United Kingdom during the Falklands War of 1982.\n\nThe conflict began in 1904 with the first official Argentine claims over the islands that had always been under Chilean control. The conflict passed through several phases: since 1881 they were claimed Chilean islands, beginning in 1904 they were disputed islands, followed later by direct negotiations, submission to a binding international tribunal, further direct negotiations, brinkmanship and settlement.\n\nThe conflict was resolved through papal mediation and since 1984 Argentina recognizes the islands as Chilean territory. The 1984 treaty also resolves several collateral issues of great importance, including navigation rights, sovereignty over other islands in the Fuegian Archipelago, delimitation of the Straits of Magellan, and maritime boundaries south to Cape Horn and beyond.\n\nFor a long time after its first exploration by Europeans, the region of Patagonia and the Tierra del Fuego archipelago remained free from colonial settlements because of its inhospitable climate, harsh conditions and sparse local vegetation. After the disaster of Puerto del Hambre (1584) during the regency of Philip II of Spain no other attempts of settlements were made in the zone.\n\nIn 1843 the Chilean government sent an expedition with the appointed task of establishing a permanent settlement on the shores of the Strait of Magellan. The founding act of the settlement of Fuerte Bulnes took place on 21 September 1843. A few years later (1848) the settlement moved to Punta Arenas.\n\nArgentine Ushuaia was founded by English born Thomas Bridges in 1869.\n\nIn 1881, Chile and Argentina attempted to definitively resolve their territorial disputes through a comprehensive agreement known as the Boundary treaty of 1881 between Chile and Argentina. This agreement provided that the border between the two countries would follow:\n\nUntil 1887 there was no doubt in Argentina and Chile that the islands Picton, Nueva and Lennox belonged to Chile:\nIn 1904 the Argentine government solicited Chile to define jointly which was the deepest arm of the Beagle channel in the zone in order to find the demarcation of the border. On the basis of the international cartography of the zone, the descriptions of the discoverer of the channel, and the discourse of the signatories of the 1881 Treaty, Chile initially did not attach importance to the note.\n\nThe chief of the Argentine exploring commission of the southern territories, Francisco P. Moreno in a memorandum to the British Ambassador in Buenos Aires, 1918, saw the Argentine claim as baseless:\n\nThe unresolved conflict continued to simmer. During the Snipe incident, Argentine forces destroyed a Chilean lighthouse on the Snipe islet at the entry of the Beagle Channel installed on 1 May 1958, put up their own and landed marines on the islet, provoking a dangerous buildup. Later both countries agreed to pull back military forces and dismantle the lighthouses.\n\nOver the years, the growing importance of the Antarctic and issues of navigation routes between the Pacific Ocean and the Atlantic Ocean, the possibility of oil fields in the zone, and fishing rights led both countries to harden their positions, and the conflict was extended to other issues regarding the zone.\n\nThere was a controversy about the east end of the Straits of Magellan. Both countries agreed about the boundary line, but not about the end of the Straits. The Chilean view was that the Straits ended at the boundary line and eastward continued the Atlantic Ocean and therefore Chile had a \"beach\" at (and its projection over) the Atlantic Ocean and it enjoyed sole control of the Straits themselves. The Argentine view was that the Straits continued eastward of the border and that the east end of the Straits of Magellan belonged to Argentina. Under this view, it was coproprietor with the right to co-regulate the navigation through the Straits and Chile had no border with the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe west end of the Straits of Magellan was also a cause of conflict. Argentina considered the channels and bays part of the straits and demanded free navigation through all waters as stipulated in the Boundary Treaty of 1881 for the Straits.\n\nOn 14 June 1977, the Chilean Government issued the decree n°416 over the baselines (See Chilean Baselines Map). The decree had two main implications for the controversy. First, it extended the range from which Chile might attempt to project its 12-miles territorial sea and 200-mile Exclusive Economic Zone along a continued line from Picton, Nueva, and Lennox Islands as far south as Cape Horn, thus greatly increasing its potential maritime jurisdiction to the east and southeast. Second, it effectively converted all waters enclosed by the baselines into Chilean internal waters where navigational rights for Argentina would exist only through explicit agreements with Chile. The Argentine port of Ushuaia, located on the north shore of the east Beagle Channel, had no direct free way to the Pacific Ocean through Argentine waters. Argentina has so far considered its unfettered use of the waters surrounding the Fuegian Archipelago to be a matter of critical importance for its commercial and military navigation.\n\nThe two countries have always linked their Antarctic claims to their continental possessions because the nearness and the projection of the countries over the Antarctic can substantiate a claim over territories.\n\nAttempts to clear up the dispute were unsuccessful from 1904 until 1971.\n\nThe increasing significance of the region led to various incidents and confrontations between Chile and Argentina around transit and fishing rights, which potentially could lead to full-scale war. The Snipe incident was the most serious incident occurred in the zone.\n\nIn 1971 Chile and Argentina signed an agreement formally submitting the Beagle Channel issue to binding arbitration under auspices of the UK's Queen Elizabeth II. The court that was to decide the controversy was composed of five judges selected by Chile and Argentina from the International Court of Justice at The Hague. The court of arbitration's final decision would be submitted to the British Crown, which was then to recommend acceptance or rejection of the award of the court but not to modify it. On 2 May 1977 the court ruled that the islands and all adjacent formations belonged to Chile. See the Report and decision of the Court of Arbitration. In their only meeting in 1974 Juan Perón expressed his wishes to settle the conflict to Augusto Pinochet.\n\nOn 25 January 1978 Argentina rejected the ruling, and attempted via military force to challenge the Chilean commitment to defend the territory, and to coerce Chile into negotiating a division of the islands that would produce a boundary consistent with Argentine claims.\n\nDirect negotiations between Chile and Argentina began after the announcement of the binding arbitration ruling, on 2 May 1977, and ended with the Act of Montevideo, Uruguay, on 9 January 1979, where both countries accepted papal mediation after Argentina aborted Operation Soberanía.\n\nIn the interim, both countries deployed military forces, moving to the brink of open warfare in tandem with a frenzy of diplomatic activity. This was the most dangerous phase of the Beagle conflict; open warfare seemed a real possibility\n\nOn 22 December 1978 Argentina initiated Operation Soberanía, an attempt via military force to occupy the islands around Cape Horn, intending to judge from Chile's response whether to advance further. However, the operation was aborted within a few hours. Instead of renewing the operation at the next window of opportunity, the junta in Buenos Aires decided to allow the Pope to mediate the dispute through the offices of Cardinal Antonio Samoré, his special envoy.\n\nOn 9 January 1979, the Act of Montevideo was signed pledging both sides to a peaceful solution and a return to the military situation of early 1977.\n\nThe Pope proposed in 1980 a solution that was accepted by Chile and rejected by Argentina.\n\nThe detention of alleged spies on both sides of the border, the following border closure by Argentina on 28 April 1981, and the Argentine repudiation of the \"General Treaty on the Judicial Settlement of Disputes\" in January 1982 maintained the danger of war. Six weeks before the Falklands War, Argentina provoked the ARA \"Gurruchaga\" incident with Chile at Deceit Island.\n\nAnglo-Chilean relations had been deteriorating since the Sheila Cassidy Affair in 1973.\n\nIn 1982, Argentina went to war against the United Kingdom in the Falklands War. The Argentine plan included the military occupation of the disputed islands at the Beagle channel after the invasion of the Falklands, as stated by Brigadier Basilio Lami Dozo, chief of the Argentine Air Force during the Falklands war, in an interview with the Argentine magazine Perfil:\n\nIn 1982, Argentina still secretly considered Chile an enemy. Chile, perhaps suspecting an Argentine invasion, argued that it was not bound to support Argentina against the UK under the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance because that treaty was defensive in nature, while Argentina was the aggressor in this case and both Chile and Argentina deployed their respective militaries to the border.\n\nThe common challenge made the chance of military co-operation between the UK and Chile a distinct possibility, and during the war Chile provided the UK with limited, but significant information. One of the reasons given for the absence of the Argentine Navy and higher numbers of professional soldiers during the Falklands War was that these forces had to be kept in reserve in case they were needed against Chile.\n\nTensions between Argentina and Chile did not subside until the democratic government of Raúl Alfonsín took office in Argentina in December 1983. Still isolated diplomatically due to the War, the Alfonsín administration made great efforts to stabilise the border situation. Without the support of the opposition, Alfonsín called for non-binding referendum on 25 November 1984, which produced a result of 82.6% in favour of the second papal proposal. The voting was close only in the territory of Tierra del Fuego, which included the Argentine sector of the disputed Beagle Channel and many military personnel. Even there the vote was narrowly in favour of the treaty. On 29 November 1984 Argentina and Chile signed a protocol of agreement to a treaty at Vatican City giving the islands to Chile but maritime rights to Argentina.\n\nSeveral books have been written about the conflict, the Operation Soberanía and the comparison of the outcome of the Falklands and the Beagle conflict (see Literature).\n\nGiven that the military critical phase of both conflicts occurred within almost 3 years (December 1978 – April 1982), the conflicts have been analysed as a case for the prospect theory or the role of the mass media in the use of force.\n\nThe mountain pass of Puyehue was renamed Cardenal Antonio Samoré Pass for Antonio Samoré, one of the mediators from the Vatican state in the conflict.\n\nLeon Gieco created the song \"Sólo le pido a Dios\" (\"I only Ask of God\") in 1978 as a response to the warmongering in Argentina. Three years later, during the Falklands War, the Argentine junta used the song against the Falklands War after the invasion.\n\nIn 2005 the Chilean movie \"Mi Mejor Enemigo\" () was released. The film recreates the story of a simple recruit in late 1978 when both countries were on the brink of war.\n\nThree TV productions about the conflict (in Spanish) focus on Operation Soberanía:\n\nThe arms race at both sides of the border after the Argentine refusal of the decision of the Court of Arbitration caused huge costs for the economy of the countries, until after the Falklands War:\n\nThe Beagle conflict was argued in legal and juridical terms, although it was eventually resolved as a political compromise.\n\nDuring the 1990s, under the presidency of Carlos Menem in Argentina and Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle in Chile, they resolved almost all of their disputes and both countries began to work together both economically and militarily.\n\nA number of prominent public officials in Chile still point to past Argentine treaty repudiations when referring to relations between the two neighbours.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17209491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17209491", "title": "Bill Ayers 2008 presidential election controversy", "text": "Bill Ayers 2008 presidential election controversy\n\nDuring the 2008 U.S. presidential campaign, controversy broke out regarding Barack Obama's relationship with Bill Ayers, a Distinguished Professor at the University of Illinois at Chicago, and a former leader of the Weather Underground, a radical left organization in the 1970s. Investigations by CNN, \"The New York Times\" and other news organizations concluded that Obama did not have a close relationship with Ayers.\n\nAyers and his wife, Bernardine Dohrn, hosted a gathering at their home in 1995, where Alice Palmer introduced Obama as her chosen successor in the Illinois State Senate. Obama and Ayers' nine years of service on the board of directors of the Woods Fund of Chicago overlapped for three years from 1999 to 2002, indicating that the two knew of each other relatively well.\n\nThe matter was first raised by the British and American press, then by conservative blogs and talk radio programs, and then by moderator George Stephanopoulos during a debate between Hillary Clinton and Obama in April 2008. The Obama-Ayers connection was used as a major campaign issue by Republican presidential candidate John McCain and vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin during the 2008 presidential election campaign. Obama has condemned Ayers' past, and stated that he does not have a close association with him.\n\nAyers was part of the five-member central committee heading the Weathermen starting at its creation in the summer of 1969. By 1969, Dohrn had joined them. Larry Grathwohl, an FBI informant who was with the Weatherman from autumn 1969 through spring 1970, considered Ayers and Dohrn the two top leaders of the organization. In early 1970, the group had begun a series of bombings, primarily of government buildings, that would continue into 1975. The group intentionally chose its targets to avoid human injury, however, a bomb previously being designed in March, 1970, for use at an NCO dance at Fort Dix, New Jersey had claimed the lives of three members of the Weathermen who died during an accidental explosion while assembling it. After the accidental explosion, the remaining members moved and took false identities.\nDuring their time \"underground\", Ayers and Dohrn formed a relationship that bore them two sons, born in 1977 and 1980. In a late-1970s split of the group, the couple joined the faction that favored surrendering to authorities. In 1980, they took this step themselves. They were both spared federal prosecution due to government misconduct while investigating the two. Dohrn received three years' probation and was fined $1,500 for the Illinois state charges, but later served seven months in jail for refusal to testify to a grand jury about their former colleagues in the Weathermen.\n\nAyers and Dohrn are described as fixtures of their Hyde Park, Chicago neighborhood, \"embraced, by and large, in the liberal circles dominating politics\" there, according to Ben Smith, a writer for \"The Politico\", and their political and activist colleagues believe their achievements of the recent decades overshadow their Vietnam-era radical activities. Ayers has been described as \"very respected and prominent in Chicago [with] a national reputation as an educator.\"\n\nIn conjunction with the approaching September 10, 2001, publication of a personal memoir, Ayers gave an interview to \"The New York Times\" in July, which they published on September 11. Ayers then wrote a letter to the editor stating the interview misquoted him and mischaracterized his views, particularly about their reporter's claim that Ayers wished he had set more bombs. \"This is not a question of being misunderstood or 'taken out of context,' but of deliberate distortion.\"\n\nObama and Ayers first met at the first Chicago Annenberg Challenge board of directors meeting at noon on March 15, 1995, at the headquarters of the Spencer Foundation on the 28th floor of the 900 North Michigan building in Chicago. Ayers and Anne Hallett, co-authors of the Chicago Annenberg Challenge grant proposal and leaders of the Chicago School Reform Collaborative, attended six early board meetings to brief the directors and a June 22, 1995 news conference where the members of the board of directors were announced.\n\nOn June 27, 1995, state Sen. Alice Palmer announced she was running for the 2nd Congressional District seat held by indicted U.S. Rep. Mel Reynolds and would be giving up her state Senate seat instead of running for re-election in 1996. The following week newspapers reported that Palmer-supporter Obama, whose memoir \"Dreams from My Father\" would be published on July 18, 1995, would announce he was running and would be a front-runner for Palmer's state Senate seat. On September 19, 1995, Obama announced his candidacy for Palmer's state Senate seat to two hundred supporters at the Ramada Inn Lakeshore, where Palmer introduced and endorsed Obama as her successor. Sometime in the second half of 1995, Ayers and Dohrn hosted a coffee for Obama in their 4th Ward Kenwood townhouse (one mile northwest of the Obamas' 5th Ward Hyde Park condominium) at which Palmer introduced Obama as her choice to succeed her as state Senator to about a dozen guests, including prominent Chicago physician Quentin Young, national coordinator of Physicians for a National Health Program, which advocates universal, comprehensive single-payer national health insurance.\n\nIn his first, two-year term in the Illinois Senate in the 90th General Assembly (1997–1998), Obama served on the Judiciary Committee and was involved in legislating a major overhaul of the Illinois juvenile justice system. On June 30, 1997, Ayers' book, \"A Kind and Just Parent: The Children of Juvenile Court\", was published. On November 20, 1997, University of Chicago Associate Dean of Students Michelle Obama's University Community Service Center's monthly discussion series held a six-person panel discussion (that included Ayers and Barack Obama) on the juvenile justice system from 6:00–8:00 pm, free and open to the public in the C-Shop in the Reynolds Club student center at 5706 S. University Avenue.\n\nIn November 1993, Obama became one of the five founding directors of the Woods Fund of Chicago when it split off from the Lincoln, Nebraska-incorporated Woods Charitable Fund, and served as a director for nine years until December 2002. Ayers served as a director of the Woods Fund of Chicago for nine years from December 1999 until December 2008, overlapping with Obama for three years from December 1999 until December 2002. Laura S. Washington, chairwoman of the Woods Fund, said the small board had a collegial \"friendly but businesslike\" atmosphere, and met four times a year for a half-day, mostly to approve grants.\n\nOn March 2, 2001, Ayers made a $200 contribution to Obama's third campaign for the Illinois Senate.\n\nOn April 20, 2002, the University of Illinois at Chicago spring semester Liberal Arts and Sciences course \"LAS 400: The University and the Public Sphere; Public Intellectuals and Their Social Influence\" concluded with a conference \"Intellectuals: Who Needs Them?\" that included a six-person panel discussion (that included Ayers and Obama) on \"Intellectuals in Times of Crisis: Experiences and applications of intellectual work in urgent situations\" from 2:15–3:45 pm, free and open to the public in the UIC Chicago Illini Union student center at 828 S. Wolcott Avenue.\n\nIn June 2005, the Obamas purchased and moved to a 4th Ward Kenwood house on Greenwood Avenue, four blocks from Ayers townhome.\n\nAn August 2008 \"USA Today\" article reported \"The last time Obama saw Ayers was about a year ago when he crossed paths with him while biking in the neighborhood,\" says Ben LaBolt, a campaign spokesman. \"The suggestion that Ayers was a political adviser to Obama or someone who shaped his political views is patently false.\" An October 2008 \"New York Times\" article reported that Obama did not have a significant relationship with Ayers. In a November 2008 \"Washington Post\" interview, Ayers said that he knew Obama only slightly: \"I think my relationship with Obama was probably like that of thousands of others in Chicago and, like millions and millions of others, I wished I knew him better.\"\n\nObama's contacts with Ayers had been public knowledge in Chicago for years. British writer Peter Hitchens wrote about Ayers in the \"Daily Mail\" in early February 2008. The connection was then picked up by blogs and newspapers in the United States, including in the Huffington Post.\n\n\"Washington Post\" media writer Howard Kurtz has written that the connection between the two Chicagoans was \"all but ignored by the news media, other than Fox\" until it was raised in a primary debate. At that Democratic Party primary debate in Philadelphia on April 16, 2008, moderator George Stephanopoulos questioned Obama about his association with Ayers (after conservative commentator Sean Hannity suggested the question the day before). Stephanopoulos asked the candidate: \"Can you explain that relationship for the voters, and explain to Democrats why it won't be a problem?\" \n\nObama responded:\n\nObama's response led to an exchange with Clinton, in which Clinton said, \"Senator Obama served on a board with Mr. Ayers for a period of time, the Woods Fund, which was a paid directorship position.\" Obama then referred to President Bill Clinton's pardoning of Linda Sue Evans and Susan Rosenberg, two former Weather Underground members convicted for their actions after joining the splinter group May 19 Communist Organization. The following Sunday, Stephanopoulos asked Republican presidential candidate John McCain about Obama's patriotism, and McCain responded: \"I'm sure he's very patriotic,\" then added, \"But his relationship with Mr. Ayers is open to question.\"\n\nOn May 17, as the controversy continued, the Obama campaign issued their own \"Fact Check\" regarding Clinton's statements on the alleged relationship between Ayers and Obama.\n\nIn April 2008, John McCain began to question Obama's interactions with Ayers, and it became an issue later in the general election campaign.\n\nIn August 2008, the Republican Party created the website, \"barackbook.com\", as a spoof of Facebook, on which Ayers is listed as one of Obama's \"friends.\" This website contains a mocked-up user profile for Ayers, which describes the matter and Obama's alleged connections with him. That month, the American Issues Project began running an ad that emphasized the relationship between the two, which contained the following text: \"Barack Obama is friends with Ayers, defending him as, quote, 'Respectable' and 'Mainstream.' Obama's political career was launched in Ayers's home. And the two served together on a left-wing board. Why would Barack Obama be friends with someone who bombed the Capitol and is proud of it? Do you know enough to elect Barack Obama?\"\n\nIn October 2008, after the McCain campaign announced that it would step up attacks on the Democratic presidential candidate, Sarah Palin delivered speeches saying that Obama was \"palling around with terrorists.\" For support, Palin cited a \"New York Times\" article that had actually concluded that Obama and Ayers were not close. The article stated that other \"publications, including \"The Washington Post,\" \"Time\" magazine, \"The Chicago Sun-Times,\" \"The New Yorker\" and \"The New Republic,\" have said that their reporting doesn't support the idea that Obama and Ayers had a close relationship.\" CNN has independently deemed Palin's allegations false, saying: \"There is no indication that Ayers and Obama are now 'palling around,' or that they have had an ongoing relationship in the past three years. Also, there is nothing to suggest that Ayers is now involved in terrorist activity or that other Obama associates are.\" The Republican National Committee and the McCain campaign each launched additional attack ads, calling Obama \"too dangerous for America.\"\n\nOn October 16, the McCain campaign launched a massive robocall campaign which played an automated message linking Ayers to Obama.\n\nThe Obama campaign added a section about Ayers to its \"Fight the Smears\" website, where it argued that the attack by \"a desperate McCain campaign\" and other groups was a \"smear\", citing newspaper commentaries calling it \"phony\", \"tenuous\". and \"exaggerated at best if not outright false\".\n\nIn August 2008, the Obama campaign's attorney Robert Bauer wrote TV stations running the American Issues Project ad, saying, \"Your station is committed to operating in the public interest, an objective that cannot be satisfied by accepting for compensation material of such malicious falsity,\" and wrote Deputy Assistant U.S. Attorney General John C. Keeney, describing the ad as a \"willful attempt to evade the strictures of federal election law.\" The Obama campaign ran a TV ad of its own in selected markets that said in part, \"With all our problems, why is John McCain talking about the 60s, trying to link Barack Obama to radical Bill Ayers? McCain knows Obama denounced Ayers' crimes, committed when Obama was just eight years old.\" That month, Obama began responding to Palin's speeches on October 5, 2008, at an event in Asheville, North Carolina: \"Senator McCain and his operatives are gambling that they can distract you with smears rather than talk to you about substance. They'd rather try to tear our campaign down than lift this country up. That's what you do when you're out of touch, out of ideas, and running out of time.\"\n\nIn 2008 and 2009 some conservative commentators advanced claims that Obama's autobiography, \"Dreams from My Father\" was written or ghost-written by Ayers. In a series of articles in American Thinker and WorldNetDaily, author Jack Cashill claimed that his own analysis of the book showed Ayers' writing style. In late October, US Congressman Chris Cannon and his brother-in-law attempted to hire an Oxford University professor, Peter Millican, to prove Ayers' authorship using computer analysis. Millican refused after they would not assure him in advance that his results would be published regardless of the outcome. Millican later criticized the claim, saying variously that he had \"found no evidence for Cashill's ghostwriting hypothesis,\" that it was \"unlikely\" and that he felt \"totally confident that it is false.\" In his 2009 unauthorized biography \"Barack and Michelle,\" author Christopher Andersen repeated Cashill's claim. When asked about the claims in 2009 Ayers said, as an apparent joke, that he wrote the book at Michelle Obama's request, setting off renewed coverage of the claims on conservative blogs.\n\nAyers himself kept a low profile during the controversy. After the election, he wrote an op-ed piece in which he explained:\n\nWith the mainstream news media and the blogosphere caught in the pre-election excitement, I saw no viable path to a rational discussion. Rather than step clumsily into the sound-bite culture, I turned away whenever the microphones were thrust into my face. I sat it out.\n\nHis post-election piece argued that the attacks on Obama had been a \"profoundly dishonest drama,\" including a false depiction of Ayers as a terrorist (\"I never killed or injured anyone\") and an exaggeration of his connection to Obama (\"We didn't pal around, and I had nothing to do with his positions\").\n\nIn a 2013 interview with the Daily Beast, Ayers said the following:\n\nDavid Axelrod said we were friendly, that was true; we served on a couple of boards together, that was true; he held a fundraiser in our living room, that was true; Michelle [Obama] and Bernardine were at the law firm together, that was true. Hyde Park in Chicago is a tiny neighborhood, so when he said I was \"a guy around the neighborhood,\" that was true. Today, I wish I knew him better and he was listening to me. Obama’s not a radical. I wish he were, but he’s not.\n\nAfter the controversy arose, Ayers was defended by officials and others in Chicago. Mayor Richard M. Daley issued a statement in support of Bill Ayers the next day (April 17, 2008), as did the \"Chicago Tribune\" in an editorial. On April 18, John F. Harris and Jim VandeHei of Politico wrote that questions \"about Obama’s association with 1960s radical William Ayers ... were entirely in-bounds. If anything, they were overdue for a front-runner and likely nominee.\" \n\nAyers remained on the Board of Directors of the Woods Fund of Chicago. Woods Fund Chair Washington said it was \"ridiculous to suggest there's anything inappropriate\" about the two men serving on the foundation board.\n\nIn late May 2008, Michael Kinsley, a longtime critic of Ayers, argued in \"Time\" that Obama's relationship with Ayers should not be a campaign issue:\n\nThe Obama-Ayers connection was mentioned in Jerome Corsi's \"The Obama Nation,\" a book published in August and intended to help defeat Obama; and in conservative author David Freddoso's \"The Case Against Barack Obama,\" where he wrote that the situation raised questions about Obama's judgment and influences. In May and August, \"Chicago Tribune\" columnist and editorial board member Steve Chapman suggested that while Obama was \"justly criticized for his ties\" to Ayers, the coverage of that connection should be matched by equal coverage of John McCain's associating with convicted Watergate burglar G. Gordon Liddy.\n\nOn September 23, 2008, Stanley Kurtz, a conservative commentator and Senior Fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center, wrote an op-ed in \"The Wall Street Journal\" after reviewing the archives of the Chicago Annenberg Exchange (CAC) at the Daley Library of the University of Illinois at Chicago. In Kurtz's opinion, \"Mr. Obama and Mr. Ayers worked as a team to advance the CAC agenda\" and \"As CAC chairman, Mr. Obama was lending moral and financial support to Mr. Ayers and his radical circle.\"\n\nSol Stern, a longtime critic of Ayers' ideas about school reform, wrote in \"City Journal\" that \"the press—and debate moderators—shouldn’t let Bill Ayers and Barack Obama off the hook,\" and that \"Calling Bill Ayers a school reformer is a bit like calling Joseph Stalin an agricultural reformer.\".\nWilliam C. Ibershof, the lead federal prosecutor of the Weather Underground case, wrote to \"The New York Times\" on October 9, 2008:\n\n"}
{"id": "24648244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24648244", "title": "Bloody Poetry", "text": "Bloody Poetry\n\nBloody Poetry is a 1984 play by Howard Brenton centring on the lives of Percy Shelley and his circle.\n\nThe play had its roots in Brenton's involvement with the small touring company Foco Novo and was the third, and final, show he wrote for them. The initial idea was that Brenton should write a piece based on the life of Shelley, though Brenton was more interested in looking, not at the individual, but at the quartet of Percy, Mary Shelley, Lord Byron and Byron's mistress Claire Clairmont, tying it in with Utopian themes appropriate to the revolutionary spirit of the protagonists. In his introduction to the play Brenton disclaims any interest in moralising over the actions of his characters, as he had in a programme to his earlier play \"Weapons of Happiness\".\n\nThe play takes as its epigraph a comment of Richard Holmes's, “Shelley's life seems more a haunting than a history.”\n\n\"Bloody Poetry\" was first performed at the Haymarket Theatre Leicester on 1 October 1984 in a production that later played at the Hampstead Theatre. The director was Roland Rees and the cast was:\n\nPercy Bysshe Shelley – Valentine Pelka<br>Mary Shelley – Fiona Shaw<br>Claire Clairmont – Jane Gurnett<br>George Byron – James Aubrey<br>Dr William Polidori – William Gaminara<br>Harriet Westbrook – Sue Burton\n\nThe play played at the Manhattan Theatre Club in 1987 in a production directed by Lynne Meadow and was revived in 1988 at the Royal Court Theatre and in 2007 at the Chapter Arts Centre, Cardiff.\n\nThe play was staged by emerging company Invulnerable Nothings at The Brooklyn Art Library in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "18004456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18004456", "title": "Breakin' Convention", "text": "Breakin' Convention\n\nBreakin’ Convention is an international hip-hop theatre festival based in London, England that was founded in 2004 and is produced annually by Sadler's Wells Theatre. It has been under the artistic direction of playwright and dancer Jonzi D since its inception. Since May 2008 Breakin’ Convention has expanded its activity beyond the three-day festival to include tours across the UK, developing new theatre work with local hip-hop artists, and to produce year-round professional development courses for UK-based hip-hop choreographers, artists, and dance/theatre companies.\n\nEarly in 2003 Jonzi D and recently appointed chief executive of Sadler's Wells, Alistair Spalding, proposed the idea of a hip hop festival that took over the entire venue celebrating hip hop culture with an emphasis on dance. Appointing Jonzi D as an associate at the theatre and founding Still Brock Productions (later: Jonzi D Productions) to focus on education and professional development of hip hop dance in the UK, the festival brought over early pioneers of the culture including The Electric Boogaloos, Tommy The Clown and Vagabond Crew, and introducing future award-winning companies such as ZooNation and Boy Blue Entertainment.\n\nBreakin' Convention is supported by Arts Council England.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37689166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37689166", "title": "BuyTigers.com", "text": "BuyTigers.com\n\nBuyTigers.com is a satirical website which claims to sell tigers online and ship them worldwide. After complaints by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), the author revealed the site to be a hoax.\n\nBuyTigers.com was designed by Aldo Tripiciano, an Italian webmaster and search engine optimization (SEO) professional. On March 5, 2006, the first version of the BuyTigers.com site was published by Tripiciano on a private web server. Promoted by Tripiciano, the site grew in popularity and attracted controversy from concerned animal rights activists. In September 2008, PETA petitioned the Indian Government and Italian Guardia di Finanza. Following the investigation, Tripiciano posted a public disclaimer that revealed the site as a hoax. After the 2011 Ohio exotic animal release, the site received further media attention.\n\nBuyTigers.com consists of a single-page website with pictures of young tigers, presented as if real examples of animals offered for sale. The site claims that tigers, despite being strong and dangerous predators, are trained to be loving, loyal and \"totally harmless\" pets. The website also claims to have been shipping tigers worldwide since 1984. A \"tiger package\", offered for $13,400, includes a five-month-old female tiger, an ivory collar, tiger toys, and a training guide.\n\nThe site was selected by the radio network Heart as one of the best Internet hoaxes of all time.\n\n"}
{"id": "22675076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22675076", "title": "Caxton Street Seafood and Wine Festival", "text": "Caxton Street Seafood and Wine Festival\n\nThe Caxton Street Seafood and Wine Festival is an annual event which was launched in 1994 by the Caxton Street Development Association to promote Caxton Street in historic Petrie Terrace as a significant entertainment precinct that celebrates and promotes Australian music, seafood and wine. It features live music, food and drink from Caxton Street restaurants and cafés, as well as Art Exhibitions and Historical Displays and a dedicated annual Festival Band Competition. By 2012, the Festival attracted more than 15000 patrons. Proceeds from the Street Tickets are donated to various Queensland charities significantly in 2012 to the Wesley Hospital (Brisbane)Kim Walters Choices Program.\n\nHeld traditionally on the Sunday of the Labour Day long weekend, until 2013, the Festival is a promotion of the Queensland Seafood and Wine industries as well as a major Queensland Music Festival. Since its inception in 1994, it has featuring artists such as Russell Crowe and 30 Odd Foot of Grunts, 1927 (band), Boom Crash Opera, The Angels (Australian band), Gang Gajang, Little Birdy, Grace Knight, Kevin Borich, Kram of Spiderbait, Dukes of Windsor, Calling All Cars (band), Don Walker (musician), Tyrone Noonan and Diana Anaid plus celebrities from Australian Idol, Big Brother and musical acts from all over Australia playing a variety of music styles. From 2014, it is held on the Queens Birthday long weekend in June.\n\nThe Caxton Street Seafood Festival is located on Caxton Street, Brisbane only a short 200 m away from Suncorp Stadium and a few minutes from the Brisbane central business district.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2014, Manny Kyriakidis of The Pushworth Group, has produced the event's music programs and 2009-2014, Nichola Burton of Australian Festival Management has managed the annual festival and Sam Kyriakidis of Pressing Issues has been the Publicist. Due to illness, the Pushworth team took a break for 2015 and 2016.\n\nIn 2011, inspired by the 2010–2011 Queensland floods, Queensland Artist, Donna Hawkins, produced a vibrant artwork representation of Caxton Street, Brisbane specifically for the festival.\n\nBrisbane’s iconic Caxton Street was left high and dry during Queensland’s devastating floods that have again affected many parts of this great State. Having raised substantial funds for the Premiers Disaster Relief Appeal in 2011, Caxton Street donated part proceeds from all tickets sold to the Queensland Floods Appeal 2013. While Queenslanders have endured the worst, this natural disaster provides people the opportunity to show their best, and the Caxton Street Seafood & Wine Festival hopes to support those in the face of yet another challenge.\n\nThe Caxton Street Seafood & Wine Festival continues its long standing relationship with the Wesley Hospital’s Prostate Cancer Care program each year as charity partner.\n\n"}
{"id": "48373318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48373318", "title": "Chicago Architecture Biennial", "text": "Chicago Architecture Biennial\n\nThe Chicago Architecture Biennial is an international exhibition of architectural ideas, projects and displays. It seeks \"to provide[] a platform for groundbreaking architectural projects and spatial experiments that demonstrate how creativity and innovation can radically transform our lived experience.\" Founded in 2014, the biennial is managed by a charitable corporation under the auspices of the city's Cultural Affairs department, and sponsored by public and private organizations and individuals.\n\nThe first of its kind in North America, the inaugeral iteration of the biennale took place in Chicago between October, 2015 and January, 2016, and was headquartered at the Chicago Cultural Center. Its first directors were Sarah Herda and Joseph Grima. The 2015-16 biennial had entries from 104 architects or practices. The exhibitors were invitees, many from North America and Europe, but also from Australia, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Ecuador, India, Israel, Japan, Pakistan, the Palestinian Territories, South Africa, and South Korea. The theme of this biennial was \"The State of the Art of Architecture.\" \n\nThe second iteration was in 2017 with the theme \"Make New History,\" and ran from September 16, 2017, through January 7, 2018 The lead curators were Mark Lee and Sharon Johnson of Johnson Marklee. Associate curators include Sarah Hearne and Letizia Garzoli. The opening coincided with EXPO Chicago, the international contemporary art fair. More than 100 architectural practices from the Americas, Asia and Europe were selected to participate. In addition to the main site at the Cultural Center, the biennial partnered with the Chicago Community Trust to hold 2017 events at six satellite locations in other parts of Chicago: The Beverly Arts Center, DePaul Art Museum, DuSable Museum of African American History, Hyde Park Art Center, the National Museum of Mexican Art, and the National Museum of Puerto Rican Arts and Culture. The second biennial drew a crowd of 550,000 and dates for a third biennial beginning in September 2019 were announced.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "981767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=981767", "title": "Chung Ling Soo", "text": "Chung Ling Soo\n\nChung Ling Soo was the stage name of the American magician William Ellsworth Robinson (April 2, 1861 – March 24, 1918), who is mostly remembered today for his death after a bullet catch trick went wrong.\n\nRobinson was born in Westchester County, New York, the first of three children born to James Campbell and Sarah Robinson (\"née\" Titus). Both of his parents were of Scottish descent. The family settled in Manhattan while James Robinson toured in Charles \"Charlie\" White's minstrel shows. James Robinson variously performed under the names \"James Campbell\", \"H.J. Campbell\" and \"Professor Campbell\", and his specialties included impersonations, \"dialect singing\", hypnotism, ventriloquism and magic tricks. He later taught his son how to perform magic tricks.\n\nRobinson performed his first magic show at the age of 14 and began performing professionally on the vaudeville circuit shortly thereafter. He initially performed under the name \"Robinson, the Man of Mystery\". Robinson earned a decent living performing his act but was eager to become a headliner on vaudeville. In 1887, he began performing \"black art illusions\" under the name \"Achmed Ben Ali\". The act and Robinson's new stage closely resembled that of German magician Max Auzinger, who performed under the name \"Ben Ali Bey\". (As Auzinger never toured the United States, the resemblance went largely unnoticed at the time).\n\nBy 1896, Robinson had performed his acts in shows for Harry Kellar and Alexander Herrmann. After Herrmann's death in 1896, Robinson decided to strike out on his own. Around this time, Robinson learned of a challenge issued by Chinese stage magician Ching Ling Foo. In a gimmick that was standard for magicians of that era, Foo offered a prize of $1,000 to any person who could successfully duplicate his illusions. Robinson, who had watched Foo's act when he toured the United States and figured out how his illusions worked, accepted the challenge. However, Foo refused to meet with him as Robinson had accepted a previous challenge issued by Foo and lost. The snub left Robinson upset. In 1898, he authored the book \"Spirit Slate Writing and Kindred Phenomena\". The book exposed the tricks of slate writing and a number of devices that fraudulent mediums would use to pretend to contact the dead.\n\nIn 1900, Robinson learned that an agent was looking for a Chinese magician to perform at the Folies Bergère in Paris. He accepted the job and quickly created a new act based on Ching Ling Foo's act. Robinson then began dressing in traditional Chinese attire, shaved his facial hair and began wearing his hair in a queue. To darken his complexion, he painted his face with greasepaint. To complete his new act, Robinson chose the stage name \"Hop Sing Soo\". Robinson's new act was a hit, and by the time he began performing in London, he had perfected his act and changed his name to \"Chung Ling Soo\" (a variation of Ching Ling Foo's name). Robinson then set about creating a fanciful back story for himself. As \"Chung Ling Soo\", Robinson claimed he was the American-born son of a Scottish missionary who married a Cantonese woman. He claimed his father was a descendant of the Campbell and Robinson Clans and both his parents died before he was 13 years old. As an orphan, Soo said he was taken in by a Chinese magician named \"Arr Hee\", who trained him to perform ancient Chinese magic tricks mixed with more modern European magic. When Hee died, Soo began performing the magic his mentor had taught him.\n\nAs Chung Ling Soo, Robinson maintained his role as a Chinese man scrupulously. He never spoke onstage, claiming that he spoke no English (though he did occasionally say phrases in broken English) and always used an interpreter when he spoke to journalists. Soo's Chinese wife, \"Suee Seen\", acted as his assistant. \"Suee Seen\" was also Robinson's invention; in reality, she was Olive \"Dot\" Path, an American woman who Robinson claimed was his wife. In fact, the two never married, as Robinson had never divorced his first wife, Bessie Smith.\n\nAs Chung Ling Soo, Robinson quickly became a popular stage magician in Europe and eventually became one of the highest-paid performers on the vaudeville circuit.\n\nIn January 1905, Soo was in London for an engagement at the Hippodrome. His rival, magician Ching Ling Foo, was performing at the nearby Empire Theatre. By this time, Foo was aware that Chung Ling Soo was actually William Robinson and that he had copied virtually his entire act. He publicly called Chung Ling Soo an imposter and became intent on publicly exposing him as such. In order to garner publicity, Foo's promoter publicly announced that he would duplicate at least half of Chung Ling Soo's illusions to prove that he was the real \"Original Chinese Conjurer\". Soo accepted the challenge and agreed to meet Foo at the offices of \"The Weekly Dispatch\" for a press conference. When Ching Ling Foo realized that the press was not interested in Chung Ling Soo's real identity, he refused to attend the press conference and backed out of the challenge. The episode was a public embarrassment for Ching Ling Foo, who played at the Empire Theatre for only four weeks (Chung Ling Soo's engagement at the Hippodrome lasted three months).\n\nSoo's most famous illusion, partly because of his death while performing it, was called \"Condemned to Death by the Boxers\". In this trick, Soo's assistants, sometimes dressed as Boxers, took two guns on to the stage. Several members of the audience were called up to the stage to mark a bullet that, under Soo's examination, appeared to be loaded into one of the guns. Attendants fired the gun at Soo, and he seemed to catch the bullets from the air and drop them on a plate he held up in front of him. In some variations, he pretended to be hit and then spat the bullet onto the plate. Actually, Soo palmed the bullets, hiding them in his hand during their examination and marking. The muzzle-loaded guns were rigged such that the gunpowder charge fired in a chamber below the barrel so that the bullet never left the gun.\n\nRobinson married his assistant Bessie Smith on February 23, 1883. Shortly after the couple married, in December 1883, a woman with whom Robinson had been having an affair (possibly a young servant girl who worked for Robinson's parents) gave birth to his child, a girl named Annie. Robinson's parents took the child in and raised her. Robinson and Smith would later have a son, Elmore (born February 1885). After the birth of their son, Smith could no longer rehearse long hours and travel with Robinson as his assistant. He soon lost interest in his wife after meeting Olive \"Dot\" Path (born Augusta Pfaff), who would also become his assistant. As divorce was considered socially unacceptable at the time and Robinson was a Roman Catholic, he and Smith never formally divorced and simply decided to \"cancel\" their marriage.\n\nRobinson and Path presented themselves as husband and wife for the next twenty years. They eventually married in a civil ceremony in March 1906. The marriage was not legally recognized as Robinson was still married to Bessie Smith. Shortly after Robinson married Path, he met Janet Louise Mary \"Lou\" Blatchford, an English woman from Plymouth. They began a sexual relationship and Blatchford became pregnant in May 1907. Path was angry to learn that Robinson had been unfaithful but the two decided to continue to present themselves as husband and wife for the sake of the act. While \"Chung Ling Soo\" and \"Suee Seen\" continued to tour Europe, Blatchford lived in Barnes, London. In between engagements, Robinson would visit the home and the couple's children, of which there were eventually three: Ellsworth James (born February 1908), Hector (born December 1909) and Mary (born March 1911).\n\nThe only known film record of \"Chung Ling Soo\" that exists today shows him greeting World War I veterans at a 1915 benefit performance.\n\nOn March 23, 1918, Chung Ling Soo was performing at the Wood Green Empire in London. He performed his act without incident until he got to his famous \"Condemned to Death by the Boxers\" illusion. That night, as one of his assistants fired the modified gun at him, some of the gunpowder exploded in the gun's chamber, accidentally firing the bullet, loaded for show by the assistant, into Soo's lung. Soo fell to the ground and said in perfect English, \"Oh my God. Something's happened. Lower the curtain.\" It was the first and last time since adopting his persona that William \"Chung Ling Soo\" Robinson had spoken English in public. Soo was taken to Passmore Edwards Cottage Hospital, but died the following morning. He is buried in East Sheen Cemetery in East Sheen, a suburb of London. The assistant who fired the gun, Jack Grossman, appeared on the UK TV show The Paul Daniels Magic Show, broadcast on November 6, 1982, where he assisted magician Paul Daniels to successfully recreate the trick.\n\nDuring the inquest, Olive \"Dot\" Path explained the nature of the Chung Ling Soo's trick. The muskets Soo used in his act were brazed with extra steel barrels. After each performance, to avoid expending powder and bullets, Soo never unloaded his guns properly. Rather than firing them off or drawing the bullets with a screw-rod, as was normal practice, he removed the bullet and powder by dismantling the breeches of the guns. Over time, a residue of unburned gunpowder was able to form in the channel he had made to allow the flash to bypass the barrel and ignite a blank charge in the ramrod tube. Thus, when Soo performed the trick that night, ignition of the residue in the channel allowed the flash from the pan to also ignite the charge behind the bullet not intended to be fired that was loaded into the barrel of the gun being used. Consequently, the bullet fired in the normal way, hitting Soo in the chest. The circumstances of the accident were verified by the gun expert Robert Churchill. Soo's death was ruled \"accidental\" with a final verdict of \"misadventure\".\n\nAfter Chung Ling Soo's death, the public was shocked to learn that he was not Chinese. Soo's true identity was largely known among professional magicians. A year before Soo's death, English magician Will Goldston commented in an interview with \"Magician Monthly\" that the public did not question Soo's identity because \"... he has always presented to the public that which they like and not which he might prefer\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12922561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12922561", "title": "Cleveland sports curse", "text": "Cleveland sports curse\n\nThe Cleveland sports curse was a sports superstition involving the city of Cleveland, Ohio, and its major league professional sports teams, centered on the failure to win a championship in any major league sport for a period of 52 years, from 1964 to 2016. Three major league teams based in Cleveland contributed to belief in the curse: the Browns of the National Football League (NFL); the Cavaliers of the National Basketball Association (NBA); and the Indians of Major League Baseball (MLB). Combined with the short-lived Barons franchise of the National Hockey League (NHL), Cleveland teams endured an unprecedented 147-season championship drought, having not won a title since the Browns defeated the Baltimore Colts in the 1964 NFL Championship Game two seasons prior to the first Super Bowl.\n\nCleveland's 52-year championship drought finally ended when the Cavaliers beat the Golden State Warriors in Game 7 of the 2016 NBA Finals, an event widely interpreted as having broken the curse.\n\nMuch of the discussion of the \"curse\" is centered on the NFL's Cleveland Browns, who have not won a championship since 1964 and have suffered a series of questionable coaching decisions, disappointing losses and draft busts.\n\nPrior to Art Modell becoming majority owner of the team, the Browns had dominated the NFL and the earlier All-America Football Conference (AAFC), winning seven championships in 17 years. After three non-playoff seasons, the 1964 Browns' team finished 10–3–1 and appeared in the 1964 NFL Championship Game against a heavily favored Baltimore Colts team coached by Don Shula with Pro Football Hall of Fame quarterback Johnny Unitas as its signal caller. The Browns beat the Colts 27–0 at Cleveland Stadium. This particular Browns team consisted of many players initially drafted and acquired by Paul Brown, the Browns' former long-time head coach and architect of the team's earlier successes, who had been fired by Modell early in 1963. During the next 30 years in Cleveland, not a single Modell team won the league or conference title, although they did appear in a total of seven NFL/American Football Conference (AFC) championship title games during the period.\n\nIn 1981, trailing by two points to the Oakland Raiders and in field goal range with less than one minute remaining in the , the Browns executed a passing play that was intercepted in the end zone. The play, called by Browns head coach Sam Rutigliano, has become known as \"Red Right 88\".\n\nIn the 1986–87 NFL playoffs, the Browns were one game away from playing in what would have been the franchise's first Super Bowl when they fell short in one of the most memorable games in NFL history. The Browns were leading the Denver Broncos 20–13 in the fourth quarter when Broncos quarterback John Elway led a 98-yard game-tying drive in just over 5 minutes. The game went to overtime, and the Broncos kicked a field goal to seal the victory. Elway's fourth quarter march and the game itself became known as \"The Drive\", a title that both signifies Elway's brilliance in the clutch and the Browns' inability to close out important games.\n\nThe Browns and Broncos both returned to the AFC Championship Game the next year. With the Browns down 38–31 late in the fourth quarter, Browns' running back Earnest Byner was handed the ball near the goal line. Byner, who was in the midst of a great performance, was stripped of the ball and the Broncos recovered on their 2-yard line. The Broncos surrendered an intentional safety and went on to win 38–33, while Byner's blunder became known as \"The Fumble\".\n\nThe Browns returned to the AFC Championship game in the 1989–90 season, again . As of the 2017 NFL season, the Browns have not returned to the AFC Championship Game since and remain one of four teams to never play in a Super Bowl, along with the Detroit Lions, Houston Texans, and Jacksonville Jaguars.\n\nThe Browns were at the center of a relocation controversy in 1995. The decision by then-Browns owner Art Modell to move the Browns, which had been an 11–5 team the previous season, to Baltimore infuriated and confused Browns fans. After negotiations with the NFL and the city of Cleveland, Modell was allowed to move the team's personnel to Baltimore, where it became a new franchise known as the Baltimore Ravens. The Ravens won a Super Bowl in only their fifth year of existence, doing so with former Browns tight end Ozzie Newsome as their general manager. In addition to Newsome's success, coach Bill Belichick, who was fired as Browns' head coach soon after the 1995 season, became head coach of the New England Patriots five years later. With the Patriots, Belichick has coached only one losing season and won eight AFC Championships and five Super Bowls. The struggles of the Browns since rejoining the NFL, as well as the success of both Newsome and Belichick, were chronicled in the NFL Films feature \"A Football Life\": 1995 Cleveland Browns.\n\nThe Browns returned to the NFL in 1999, after a three-year period of deactivation. In the 1999 NFL Draft, the Browns selected Tim Couch, hoping he would be a franchise quarterback. Ty Detmer was brought in to usher in the planned \"Couch era\", but after a string of dismal performances, Couch was rushed into the starting position. Couch struggled to perform without a talented roster around him, which led to his eventual departure from the Browns after the 2003 season. Although only winning 22 games in 59 starts, Couch led the Browns to their only playoff berth since their return, in 2002.\n\nBy the end of the 2017 season, the Browns had started 28 different quarterbacks since their 1999 return to the NFL, a league-high in that period. The Browns have not won a playoff game since , and have lost nine or more games each season since 2008.\n\nOn November 30, 2015, the Browns played the Baltimore Ravens in their first \"Monday Night Football\" game in six years. After trailing 17–3 in the second quarter, the Browns rallied behind quarterbacks Josh McCown and Austin Davis to tie the game at 27 with 1:47 left. Then Browns cornerback Tramon Williams intercepted a pass at mid-field with 50 seconds left. Cleveland attempted a 51-yard field goal with 3 seconds left to win the game, only to see the attempt blocked and returned by Ravens safety Will Hill for a touchdown, handing the Browns their most painful loss in recent history. The event was called \"The Block\" by some disgruntled fans on Twitter only moments after the end of the game.\n\nThe Browns arguably hit rock-bottom in the 2017 season, where, under head coach Hue Jackson, the Browns went a league-worst and franchise record-worst 0-16, becoming just the second team in NFL history since the implementation of the 16-game season (after the 2008 Detroit Lions) to lose every game in a season.\n\nThe Cleveland Cavaliers are a professional basketball team who have played in the National Basketball Association (NBA) since 1970.\n\nOver the franchise's first 16 years, the team produced just three winning seasons, the highlight being the 1975–76 \"Miracle at Richfield\" team, whose improbable playoff run was doomed by an injury to Jim Chones. The early-mid 1980s saw the franchise ruined by owner Ted Stepien's decision to trade away every first-round pick the Cavaliers held for inferior talent, while those picks turned into players such as James Worthy and Derek Harper. Despite this, the Cavaliers gained respectability towards the end of the decade and the early 1990s, making the playoffs with players such as Mark Price, Brad Daugherty, Hot Rod Williams and Craig Ehlo on their roster.\n\nIn 1989, the Cavaliers faced the Chicago Bulls in the first round of the playoffs. In the decisive fifth game, Craig Ehlo had given the Cavs the lead with three seconds to play. However, the Bulls' Michael Jordan jumped over Ehlo to make the game-winning shot, and the Bulls won the game, 101–100, to clinch the series. Despite six trips to the playoffs between 1988 and 1994, including a 1992 Eastern Conference Finals appearance, the Cavaliers never made it to the NBA Finals, as Jordan's Bulls defeated them in the playoffs five times during the Daugherty–Nance–Price era.\n\nIn 2007, Ohio native LeBron James led the Cavaliers to their first NBA Finals appearance. However, they were swept by the San Antonio Spurs. Two years later, the Cavs, despite posting a conference-best 66–16 record, lost the to the Orlando Magic, 4–2. In the following season's playoffs, though his team always possessed home-court advantage, the reigning two-time MVP James and the 2009–10 Cavaliers (61–21) were defeated by the visiting Boston Celtics in Game 5 of the Eastern Conference Semifinals, 120–88. The Cavaliers went on to lose the series, 4–2.\n\nDuring the 2010 NBA free agency period, James was featured in a television special titled \"The Decision\". Having notified the Cavaliers just moments prior to the television event, James announced \"In this fall — this is very tough — in this fall I'm gonna take my talents to South Beach and join the Miami Heat.\" The quote was heavily criticized. James, along with the help of Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh, led the Heat to four consecutive NBA Finals appearances, winning twice, while the Cavaliers' record fell to the bottom of the NBA echelon. In those four years without LeBron, they acquired three number-one picks (Kyrie Irving in 2011, Anthony Bennett in 2013 and Andrew Wiggins in 2014). The team struggled to win games, setting an NBA record for most consecutive losses with 26 in the 2010–11 season.\n\nAfter the 2013–14 season, James opted out of his contract with Miami and returned to the Cavaliers. After signing James, the Cavaliers traded their two most recent number-one draft picks, Andrew Wiggins and Anthony Bennett, for Minnesota Timberwolves star Kevin Love to form their own \"Big 3,\" which was rounded out by Irving. The Cavs advanced to the 2015 NBA Finals. However, several Cavaliers players were injured during the season, including Anderson Varejão with a ruptured Achilles tendon, Love with a dislocated shoulder, and Irving with a fractured patella in Game 1 of the Finals. Though losing nearly all of James' supporting cast, the Cavaliers took a 2–1 series lead before falling to the Golden State Warriors, 4–2.\n\nThe next season, despite a 30–11 start, the team fired coach David Blatt and replaced him with assistant Tyronn Lue. It was revealed that Blatt had a turbulent relationship with James as well as several other players. The Cavaliers lost to the Chicago Bulls 96–83 at home in Lue's debut as Cavaliers' head coach.\n\nThe Cavs finished the season 57–25, earning the top seed in the Eastern Conference. They advanced to the NBA Finals, losing only two games on the way.\n\nThe Cavaliers defeated the Golden State Warriors in the 2016 NBA Finals which was a rematch of the previous season's Finals. Through the first four games, the Cavs were trailing the record-setting 73-win Warriors in the series, 3–1. However, the Cavaliers won the next three games to win their first NBA championship in franchise history, becoming the first team in NBA Finals history to overcome a 3–1 deficit, and the first team since 1978 to win a Finals Game 7 on the road. A particularly memorable moment in Game 7 was when James successfully pursued and blocked Andre Iguodala on a fast break late in the fourth quarter, a defensive play known among Cavs fans as The Block. Following would be a three-point shot by Kyrie Irving, to put the Cavaliers ahead for good at 92–89 with 53 seconds left in the fourth quarter. Following that, Cavaliers' forward Kevin Love was switched and forced to play one-on-one defense against Stephen Curry. Curry tried an array of dribbling moves but ultimately missed his 3-point attempt, with the typically slow-footed Love staying in front of and pestering the Warriors guard. This game is being called \"The Comeback\" and \"The End\" as this win ended Northeast Ohio's 52-year championship drought.\n\nThe Cleveland Indians, like the Browns and Cavaliers, also experienced the curse. The Indians' failure to win a World Series since has led the \"Cleveland Scene\" to dub the team's shortcomings The Curse of Chief Wahoo. Chief Wahoo is a Native American caricature which serves as the Indians' cap insignia. The Chief Wahoo insignia has been controversial. The Indians considered changing it in 1993, but the logo was retained on the home caps, alternate away caps, and jersey sleeves until 2019. In 2002, the Indians introduced a script \"I\" alternate logo and cap insignia. In 2011, the alternate logo was changed to the block \"C\". The Curse of Rocky Colavito is another phenomenon that is supposedly preventing the Indians from winning a World Series. The 1989 film \"Major League\" was based on the Indians' poor performance since 1954, as the Indians had finished within five games of a playoff berth just three times between 1955 and 1989.\n\nIn 1954, the Indians had one of the greatest seasons in baseball history, winning 111 games in what was the only time from 1949–1958 in which the New York Yankees did not win the American League pennant. Heavily favored against the New York Giants in the World Series, the Indians seemed poised to break the game open in the top of the eighth inning, when Indians first baseman Vic Wertz hit a deep fly ball to center field. However, since the game was held at the Polo Grounds (which was 483 feet from home plate to center field), the ball was not a home run, although the ball would have been a home run in any other ballpark. As such, Giants center fielder Willie Mays made an improbable, over-the-shoulder, no-look catch on the run to rob Wertz of an extra-base hit, leaving the game tied at two in what became known as The Catch. In the bottom of the tenth inning, Giants batter Dusty Rhodes hit a walk-off home run to give the Giants the win. The Giants went on to sweep the Indians in the World Series in what became one of the biggest upsets in World Series history. In 1969, the when Major League Baseball expanded its postseason and introduced divisional play, the Indians were placed in the American League East. Despite the introductions of divisions and expanded playoffs, the Indians found themselves unable to win the AL East division, as they finished above .500 on just four occasions during their time in the AL East from 1969–1993. The Indians did not return to the postseason until the postseason was expanded further in 1995.\n\nThe historic 1995 season saw the Indians win 100 games and make it to the World Series for the first time in 41 years. However, they lost in six games to the Atlanta Braves, led by the Braves' Big Three of Greg Maddux, John Smoltz, and World Series MVP Tom Glavine. The Braves' victory was their only World Series win in their fifteen consecutive trips to the playoffs between 1991 and 2005. In 1996, the Indians won 99 games, which was the most in the American League. However, they lost the ALDS in four games to the Orioles. The Indians returned to the World Series in 1997 and were leading 2–1 heading into the bottom of the ninth inning of Game 7, only for José Mesa to blow the save to Craig Counsell's sacrifice fly, allowing the Marlins to tie the game in the ninth and win in the eleventh on a walk-off single by Edgar Renteria that deflected off the glove of Indians pitcher Charles Nagy. The Indians failed to return to the World Series in 1998, losing the ALCS in six games. In 1999, the Indians went up 2–0 against the Boston Red Sox, only to lose the next three games of the series by a combined score of 44–18.\n\nAfter winning division titles six times in seven seasons from 1995 to 2001, the Indians only appeared in the postseason twice in 14 years under the often frugal Dolan family ownership (Larry Dolan bought the team in 2000). In the 2007 American League Championship Series, the Indians were up 3–1 and one win away from advancing to the World Series, but they lost the last three games to the Boston Red Sox by a combined score of 30–5, denying the team a World Series berth. In 2013, the Indians won their final ten games of the season to make the playoffs again, but lost the play-in Wild Card game at home to the Tampa Bay Rays by a score of 4–0.\n\nDespite the Cavaliers 2016 NBA title, the Indians continued to come up short in the playoffs. Later that same year, The Indians advanced to the World Series, giving Cleveland a chance to become the first city since Los Angeles in 1988 to have both NBA and MLB championships in the same year. The Indians held a 3–1 lead against the Chicago Cubs, but Chicago rallied to win the last three games and break their own curse; as a result, the Indians currently hold the longest active championship drought in baseball. In 2017, the Indians returned to the playoffs as a heavy favorite to return to the World Series. They won 102 games, highlighted by an American League record 22-game winning streak. However, the Indians lost the Division Series to the New York Yankees, 3–2. The Indians returned to the postseason in 2018, but were swept in the Division Series by the Houston Astros.\n\nThe Cleveland sports curse has generally centered around its major teams. However, other teams based in Cleveland won championships during the city's major title drought, and one Greater Cleveland native won a world championship individually.\nThe Cleveland Crunch, a indoor soccer club, won three championships in the National Professional Soccer League (NPSL) during the 1990s. The Crunch beat the St. Louis Ambush three games to one in a best-of-five championship series, clinching the team's first title in a double overtime Game 4 win at the CSU Convocation Center on April 27, 1994. The team went on to win two more titles, in 1996 and 1999, before the league itself disbanded in 2001.\n\nOn June 11, 2016, the Lake Erie Monsters of the American Hockey League won the Calder Cup, defeating the Hershey Bears at Quicken Loans Arena to win the series 4–0. The team, also owned by Dan Gilbert, shares its arena with the Cavaliers, who won the NBA title eight days later.\n\nIt was the tenth overall Calder Cup won by a Cleveland team. The original Cleveland Barons that played from 1937 to 1973 won nine Calder Cups, with the last in 1964, coincidentally the last time one of the major sports franchises in the city won a championship prior to the 2016 Cavaliers.\n\nOn May 14, 2016, mixed martial artist Stipe Miocic, a native of Euclid, Ohio, a Cleveland suburb, won the UFC Heavyweight Championship at UFC 198 in Curitiba, Brazil, knocking out Brazil's Fabricio Werdum. Three hours prior, ESPN had aired a \"30 for 30\" episode called \"Believeland,\" documenting Cleveland's major-league title drought. The Indians and Cavaliers Twitter accounts congratulated him shortly afterwards. They and the Browns had earlier wished him luck. He tweeted encouragement to the Cavaliers, who hoped to keep the winning streak alive in the 2016 NBA Playoffs. Some media outlets characterized Miocic's title as having ended Cleveland's 52-year championship drought, as well as Miocic himself in the post-fight interview. Most either continued to portray the curse as ongoing with the Cavaliers poised to break it, or recognized the Cavaliers as having ended the title drought following their win in the 2016 NBA Finals.\n\n"}
{"id": "1219284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1219284", "title": "Creole case", "text": "Creole case\n\nThe \"Creole\" case was the result of an American slave revolt in November 1841 on board the \"Creole\", a ship involved in the United States coastwise slave trade. As 128 slaves gained freedom after the Africans ordered the ship sailed to Nassau, it has been termed the \"most successful slave revolt in US history\". Two persons died as a result of the revolt, a black slave and a white slave trader.\n\nThe United Kingdom had abolished the slave trade for British vessels in 1807, and slavery in its colonies effective 1834; its officials in the Bahamas ruled that most of the slaves on the \"Creole\" were freed after arrival there, if they chose to stay. Officials detained the 19 men who rebelled on ship until the Admiralty Court of Nassau held a special session in April 1842 to consider charges of piracy against them. The Court ruled that the men had been illegally held in slavery and had the right to use force to gain freedom; they were not seeking private gain. The 17 survivors (two had died in the interim), were released to freedom.\n\nWhen the \"Creole\" reached New Orleans in December 1841 with three women and two child slaves aboard (who had made the mistake of remaining in hiding), Southerners were outraged about the loss of property. Relations between the United States and Britain were strained for a time. The incident occurred during negotiations for the Webster-Ashburton Treaty of 1842 but was not directly addressed. The parties settled on seven crimes qualifying for extradition in the treaty; they did not include slave revolts.\n\nEventually claims for losses of slaves from \"Creole\" and two other US ships were covered, along with other claims dating to 1814, in a treaty of 1853 between the US and Britain, for which an arbitration commission awarded settlements in 1855 against each nation.\n\nIn the fall of 1841, the brig \"Creole,\" owned by Johnson and Eperson of Richmond, Virginia, was transporting 135 slaves for sale in New Orleans, the South's major market. It had left Richmond with 103 slaves and picked up another 32 at Hampton Roads, Virginia. Most were owned by Johnson and Eperson, and 26 were owned by Thomas McCargo, a slave trader who was one of the passengers on board. While the United States had prohibited the international slave trade effective in 1808, it permitted the domestic slave trade among those states that authorized slavery; many slave traders transported captives by the coastwise slave trade along the East Coast. The brig also carried tobacco, a crew of 10, the captain's wife, daughter and niece; four passengers, including slave traders; and eight black slave servants, for a total of 160 on board.\n\nMadison Washington, a refugee slave who had been recaptured after returning from Canada to Virginia for his wife, was among those being shipped for sale in New Orleans. The slaves were kept in the forward hold, and he gained the deck after one of the crew had lifted the grate. On November 7, 1841, Washington and eighteen other male slaves rebelled; they overwhelmed the crew and killed John R. Hewell, one of the slave traders, with a knife. The crew and passengers had only one gun among them, which they never used. The captain, who was wounded, and two mates had gone up into the rigging to escape the fighting. One of the slaves was badly wounded and later died. Some others of the crew were wounded but all survived.\n\nThe slaves took overseer William Merritt at his word that he would navigate for them. They first demanded that the ship be taken to Liberia, which the US had established as a free colony in West Africa. Merritt said that voyage was impossible as they did not have enough food or water. Another slave leader, Ben Blacksmith, said they should be taken to the British West Indies, as he knew the slaves from the \"Hermosa\" had gained freedom there the previous year.\n\nOn November 9, 1841, the \"Creole\" reached Nassau, where it was first boarded by the harbor pilot and his crew, all local black Bahamians. They told the American slaves that, under Bahamian colonial law, they were free. The crew advised them to go ashore at once. The Quarantine Officer came aboard. As the captain Robert Ensor was badly wounded, the officer took First Mate Zephaniah Gifford to inform the American Consul of the events. At the Consul's request, the governor of the Bahamas ordered a guard to board the \"Creole\" to prevent the escape of the men implicated in Hewell's death. The 24 black soldiers were led by a white officer. This action prevented the slaves from dispersing into the city.\n\nFearing the British would apply their ban on slavery to the American slaves, the American consul tried to organize American sailors on the island to take back control of the ship. He intended to have them sail the ship out of British jurisdiction with the slaves still aboard. An American group of sailors approached the ship on November 12, intending to sail it away, but were foiled by a Bahamian who shouted a warning to the officer of the guard aboard the \"Creole.\" He threatened to fire into the Americans in their boat, and they withdrew.\n\nAfter an investigation by magistrates, on Friday, 13 November 1841, the Bahamian Attorney-General went aboard. He told the nineteen rebels that they would be detained. He informed the remainder: \"You are free, and at liberty to go onshore, and wherever you please.\" A fleet of small boats manned by locals, who until then had surrounded the brig at a distance, immediately came forward. The Attorney-General warned the people against boarding the \"Creole,\" but said they could provide passage to those slaves who wished to go to shore. Most did so, although three women, a girl, and a boy stayed in hiding on board. They eventually sailed with the ship to New Orleans and back to slavery.\n\nThe New Providence government arranged for a ship bound for Jamaica, also under British control, to take passengers to that island for free, and announced it in the newspaper. Numerous American blacks from the \"Creole\" left for Jamaica aboard it.\n\nAfter the Bahamian government arrested the conspirators, the United States government dropped its claims for all the slaves to be returned to its custody. There was no extradition treaty at the time between Britain and the United States governing such circumstances.\n\nThe British authorities determined that the slaves had not committed any breach of British or maritime law. As under British law they were free men, they were considered to have the right to use force to escape the detention of illegal slavery. The Admiralty Court in Nassau held a special session in April to consider a charge of piracy against the men implicated in the mutiny. Ruling that their action was not piracy, the Court ordered the surviving 17 mutineers to be released on April 16, 1842. As a total of 128 slaves gained their freedom, this has been described as the \"most successful slave revolt in US history\".\n\nThe \"Creole\" had departed months before for the United States, reaching its original destination of New Orleans on December 2, 1841. Five slaves were still aboard, outraging planters and politicians who learned that the remaining slaves had been freed by British authorities.\n\nThe case attracted national attention in the United States and provoked diplomatic controversy. In Boston in 1842, abolitionist William E. Channing published a pamphlet, \"The Duty of the Free States or Remarks Suggested by the Case of the 'Creole',\" to refute claims by Southern politicians that the human property of U.S. slave owners should be protected in foreign ports. The issue was also under discussion due to negotiations over the Webster-Ashburton Treaty, which was ratified with the United Kingdom that year.\n\nLess than a year later, the \"Creole\" was wrecked in a violent storm while in harbour at Funchal, Madeira.\n\nThe \"Creole\" case generated diplomatic tension between the United Kingdom and the United States, and political rumblings within the United States. Southerners were outraged to have lost property in another instance of British colonists freeing slaves from American ships that had gone into their ports in the Caribbean. The John Tyler administration supported Southerners in seeking the return of the slaves.\n\nAlthough known as an abolitionist, Daniel Webster as Secretary of State served John Tyler; he stated the US position to the United Kingdom that the slaves were legal property of US citizens and demanded their return.\n\nThe United Kingdom had abolished slavery effective August 1834, and it rejected the U.S. claim. It had advised all nations that under its law, ships that went into its colonial ports would forfeit any slaves on board. It said that Nassau was a British territory where British law must be applied. Under it, the 'slaves' aboard the \"Creole\" were to be considered free passengers. Accordingly, unless they could be proved to have broken local or maritime law, it would be false imprisonment to detain them against their will.\n\nThe abolitionist Charles Sumner argued that the slaves \"became free men when taken, by the voluntary action of their owners, beyond the jurisdiction of the slave states.\" In March 1842 US Representative Joshua Reed Giddings of Ohio introduced a series of nine resolutions on this topic, arguing against the federal government acting on behalf of the slaveholders. He argued that Virginia state law did not apply to slaves who were outside Virginian waters, the federal government had no part in it, and the coastwise slave trade was unconstitutional, as slaves were beyond state law on the high seas, and thus free. Southerners in the House of Representatives disagreed with his position. The members censured Giddings by a large margin for violating an informal gag rule that had been in effect since 1836, barring discussion of slavery in the House. He promptly resigned. When the Ohio legislature held a special election in May 1842 for his seat, the voters of Ohio overwhelmingly reelected Giddings, by 7,469 to 383.\n\nEncouraged by the outcome of the \"Creole\" revolt, abolitionists renewed their political attacks on slavery and the coastwise trade. In the newspaper article, \"The Hero Mutineers,\" Madison Washington was named the 'romantic hero.' Washington was said to have shown sympathy toward the white crew members on the \"Creole\" by preventing his fellow slave mates from murdering all of them when they made a last effort to regain control. He was said to have personally dressed sailors' wounds after the revolt.\n\nThe case roused strong feelings on both sides of the Atlantic, as the events occurred during the negotiations related to the Webster-Ashburton Treaty of 1842 between the two nations, primarily to settle the borders between the US and Canada, a British colony. According to the \"New York Courier and Inquirer\", Daniel Webster, as Secretary of State, wrote to Lord Ashburton, then in Washington, DC:\n\nThe Creole case is presented in strong terms by Mr Webster in a letter (which, when published, will bring all the anti-slavery people about his ears)...\" To this Lord Ashburton replied that as the case had effectively arisen after his departure from England he was 'not empowered to treat upon the subject'. He reaffirmed the position that as slavery was no longer recognized under British law, any foreign slave arriving in British possessions was automatically considered as free — as was also the case in those American states that did not recognize slavery. He did however promise that British officials in the West Indies would be given 'directions'...'to do nothing in this respect when it can be properly avoided' in the interests of 'good neighbourhood'.\n\nAmong other declarations, the Webster-Ashburton Treaty called for a final end to the slave trade on the high seas, to be enforced by both signatories.\n\nSeven lawsuits were lodged against insurance companies in Louisiana by slave owners who had suffered financial losses due to the revolt, as the insurance companies initially refused to compensate them. Most of these insurance cases were consolidated and eventually heard by the Louisiana State Supreme Court.\n\nThe \"Comet\" in 1830 and the \"Encomium\" in 1833 were American ships in the coastwise slave trade that were forced by weather into British Caribbean ports while carrying numerous slaves bound for the domestic market in New Orleans. The British treated the slaves on board as aliens, and freed both groups. Britain eventually paid compensation for these seizures, as it had not yet abolished slavery in its territories.\n\nWhen Parliament abolished slavery in its territories in 1833, Britain advised other countries that slave ships that put into its ports would forfeit the slaves without compensation. After British abolition of slavery in its colonies, effective in 1834, its officials freed slaves from the \"Enterprise\" (1835), and the \"Hermosa\" (1840), without compensation.\n\nIn 1840, the \"Hermosa\", a US schooner in the coastwise slave trade carrying 38 slaves from Richmond to New Orleans for sale, went aground on one of the Abacos islands in the Bahamas. After wreckers took the ship to port, the captain refused to let the slaves off and with the US consul, tried to arrange for another ship to take and deliver his slave cargo to the United States. British magistrates backed with armed force went onto the \"Hermosa\", taking the slaves off and freeing them when they reached the port. The Americans protested. The \"Enterprise\" and \"Hermosa\" cases were submitted for arbitration under an 1853 claims treaty and, together with claims for the \"Creole\" and a variety of other unrelated claims dating to 1814, Britain paid a settlement in 1855 to the United States for these three cases. A total of nearly 450 American slaves achieved freedom due to British colonies' actions in these five cases.\n\nAfter years of discussion, the United Kingdom and the United States signed a February 1853 Treaty of Claims which articles included the claims of slave-owners who had suffered financially through the British emancipation of slaves in the \"Enterprise\" (1835), \"Hermosa\" (1840) and \"Creole\" incidents. A claims commission met in London from September 15, 1853 to January 15, 1855 to settle the amount of total awards covered under this treaty, which extended to a variety of claims dating from December 1814. In February 1855, Congress passed a bill accepting the commission's settlement and appropriating funds for the US payment required.\n\nBritish officials may have been warned off liberating slaves from US ships, but citizens sometimes acted independently. In 1855 the \"New York Times\" reported that an American slave had been removed by Jamaicans from the brig \"Young America\" at Savanna-la-Mar and \"set at large\". Although the action was taken by private individuals and not officials, the paper noted the potential for future conflict between the nations, and called for a lasting solution to be found by \"the two governments interested\".\n\n\nOfficers:\nCrew:\nPassengers:\nLeaders of the slave revolt:\nParticipants:\n\nJoshua Giddings introduced these resolutions in Congress in 1842 and was censured for opening debate on slavery in defiance of a ruling against it. He resigned and returned to his home state of Ohio, where he was quickly re-elected by his constituents in a special election. He soon returned to Congress.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40286039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40286039", "title": "Dhamara Ghat train accident", "text": "Dhamara Ghat train accident\n\nThe Dhamara Ghat train accident occurred on 19 August 2013 when the Saharsa Patna Rajya Rani Express train struck a large group of people at the Dhamara Ghat railway station in the Indian state of Bihar. At least 37 people were killed and 24 were injured. The victims were mostly Hindu pilgrims returning from prayers at the nearby Katyayani mandir. The accident triggered a protest by passengers who beat the driver unconscious, attacked staff and torched two coaches of the train. The chief minister of Bihar State, Nitish Kumar, called it \"the rarest of rare tragedies\". He pledged 200,000 rupees, or around $3,180, to the victims' families, and urged the railway ministry to do the same.\n\nAccording to S.K. Bhardwaj, a senior Bihar police officer, 37 people lost their lives. Among them were 13 women, four children and 20 men. The victims were walking along the tracks at Dhamara Ghat station after disembarking from the Samastipur-Saharsa passenger train when the Saharsa-Patna Rajya Rani Express travelling at 80 km/h, struck them.\n\n"}
{"id": "1631886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1631886", "title": "Drop Dead Festival", "text": "Drop Dead Festival\n\nThe Drop Dead Festival is the largest DIY festival for \"art-damaged\" music. It has as many as 65 bands per event, and has been known to attract attendees from over 30 countries. Drop Dead is an electro, post-punk, electropunk, and experimental multiple-day festival, previously held in New York, NY and Europe with additional smaller events having formerly been held in Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Boston, and New Jersey. The festival is also notable for its elaborate stage designs, bazaar of vendors of scene paraphernalia, movie screenings, and a dancefloor featuring underground DJs from around the world.\n\nThe first Drop Dead Festival was held in August 2003, after the success of a series of smaller events put on by NY Decay Productions at the Pyramid in New York City. The festival was originally held at the famous CBGB punk rock club, but subsequent Drop Dead Festivals moved to the much larger Knitting Factory, also in lower Manhattan. Although the main event moved to larger locations, CBGB traditionally held pre-parties and after-parties for the festival until the club closed. In 2005, the Drop Dead Festival grew to four days, during Halloween week. Over 5,000 people attended this event, featuring headliner Nina Hagen.\n\nIn 2006 the Drop Dead Festival was held at the Knitting Factory on Labor Day weekend, September 1–3. This was the last regular Drop Dead Festival in the US.\n\nSince 2007, Drop Dead has been held in Europe as a traveling festival, including Prague (2007), Portugal (2008), Lithuania (2010), and Berlin (2011, 2012).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3851313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3851313", "title": "Ebeneezer Goode", "text": "Ebeneezer Goode\n\n\"Ebeneezer Goode\" is a song by British electronic music group The Shamen, which, after being heavily remixed by The Beatmasters, became their biggest hit when released as a single in August 1992. The band's original version also featured on the vinyl edition of their album \"Boss Drum\". \"Ebeneezer Goode\" was one of the most controversial UK number-one hits of the 1990s, due to its perceived oblique endorsement of recreational drug use. The song was initially banned by the BBC. It has been claimed that the single was eventually withdrawn after the band were hounded by the British tabloid press, though according to The Shamen themselves, it was deleted while at Number 1 due to its long chart run 'messing up our release schedule'.\n\nThe song is best known for its chorus, \"'Eezer Goode, 'Eezer Goode / He's Ebeneezer Goode\", the first part of which is audibly identical to, \"Es are good\" – 'E' being common slang for the drug ecstasy. However, 'E' is also sung many other times during the song, ostensibly as \"<nowiki>'</nowiki>e\" (i.e. \"he\"), such as in \"E's sublime, E makes you feel fine\". The lyrics allude to the advantages of the drug, though with an admonition against excessive use:\nThe song also contains references to hand-rolled cigarettes with the lines \"Has anybody got any Veras?\" (\"Vera Lynns\" being rhyming slang for \"skins\" or rolling papers) and \"Got any salmon?\" (\"salmon and trout\" being rhyming slang for \"snout\" or tobacco).\nThe \"A great philosopher once wrote..\" sample at the start of the song is Malcolm McDowell from Lindsay Anderson's 1973 film \"O Lucky Man!\"\n\nThe video consisted of club scenes intermixed with a caped man (ostensibly Ebeneezer Goode himself, played by Jerry Sadowitz) running round a wasteland. Due to the use of flashing images in the video, some music channels include epilepsy warnings over the video. Some channels, including VH1, edit the video to reduce the frame rate of these scenes which deletes each bright frame.\n\nThe music video was played in episode 5 and 6, season 3 of \"Beavis and Butt-head\", \"Kidnapped\".\n\nWhen the Shamen appeared on BBC One's \"Top of the Pops\", it was expected that Mr C should tone down the song due to its being broadcast. The group replaced the final lyric \"Got any salmon?\" with \"Has anyone got any underlay?\" He was later asked about this in a radio interview, to which he replied that it was not a drug reference but a \"rug\" reference.\n\nThe song entered the UK Singles Chart at number six in September 1992, before climbing to number one two weeks later (during the BBC's drug awareness week), staying there for four weeks. It was the 13th biggest selling single of 1992, selling 278,000 copies. It is the group's biggest seller.\n"}
{"id": "11014233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11014233", "title": "Foie gras controversy", "text": "Foie gras controversy\n\nThe production of foie gras (the liver of a duck or a goose that has been specially fattened) involves the controversial force-feeding of birds with more food than they would eat in the wild, and more than they would voluntarily eat domestically. The feed, usually corn boiled with fat (to facilitate ingestion), deposits large amounts of fat in the liver, thereby producing the fatty consistency sought by some gastronomes.\n\nAnimal rights and welfare activist groups such as the Humane Society of the United States and the Animal Legal Defense Fund contend that foie gras production methods, and force feeding in particular, consist of cruel and inhumane treatment of animals. Specific complaints include livers swollen to many times their normal size, impaired liver function, expansion of the abdomen making it difficult for birds to walk, death if the force feeding is continued, and scarring of the esophagus.\n\nIn modern gavage-based foie gras production, force feeding takes place 12–18 days before slaughter.\n\nIn 2001, the Director of the New York State Government Affairs & Public Policy Dept. for the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, which is one of America's leading environmental activist groups, wrote a letter to then NYS Attorney General, Eliot Spitzer, asking that the state's foie gras producers be prosecuted for violating animal cruelty statutes.\n\nLate in 2003, the French group Stopgavage (\"Citizens' Initiative for the banning of force-feeding\") published the Proclamation for the Abolition of Force Feeding, which asks justices to find foie gras production practices a violation of existing animal welfare laws. For this manifesto Stopgavage claims the support of over eighty French animal rights and welfare associations, over a hundred such associations from 25 other countries, and over 20 thousand individual signatories.\n\nStopgavage, through its president Antoine Comiti, has criticized the INRA (a French public research institute) for allowing its researchers to receive grants from the foie gras industry for conducting research aimed at contradicting the EU report conclusions. Robert Dantzer, a retired INRA researcher, calls the INRA studies \"pseudoscience\" and \"convenience research\".\n\nIn 2005, the organisations APRL, IDA and PETA released a video narrated by Sir Roger Moore showing footage the groups took inside the three U.S. foie gras farms and several in France.\n\nPETA wants this practice, which they say is cruel, stopped. Various American celebrities have lent their voices to this public campaign. Most recently in April 2009 PETA released a letter written by television and stage actor Bea Arthur to TV chef Curtis Stone deploring the practice of foie gras.\n\nIn 2014 Compassion in World Farming partners with other organizations such as the German \"Albert-Schweitzer Foundation\" and the French organization \"L214\" to pressure the EU Commission and EU Agriculture Council to take action against the production of foie gras.\n\nThe report of the European Union's Scientific Committee on Animal Health and Animal Welfare on Welfare Aspects of the Production of Foie Gras in Ducks and Geese, adopted on December 16, 1998, is an 89-page review of studies from several producing countries. It examines several indicators of animal welfare, including physiological indicators, liver pathology, and mortality rate. It strongly concludes that \"force feeding, as currently practised, is detrimental to the welfare of the birds.\"\n\nMembers of the committee describe how geese and ducks show \"avoidance behaviour indicating aversion for the person who feeds them and the feeding procedure\". Although the committee reported that there is no \"conclusive\" scientific evidence on the aversive nature of force feeding, and that evidence of injury is \"small\", in their overall recommendations, the committee stated that \"the management and housing of the birds used for producing foie gras have a negative impact on their welfare\".\n\nOn physiology, the report finds that based on studies available, \"no definite conclusions can be drawn concerning the physiological activity of birds in response to force feeding\" because although \"force feeding induced hepatic steatosis in the duck or goose\", \"hepatic steatosis in the waterfowl is a normal metabolic response\" and there was a low incidence of disease indicating lesions. If gavage is stopped the \"return to normal took approximately four weeks\". As an economic indicator the report states \"it is strongly in the interest of the farmer\" to avoid disease as the \"resulting fat liver is of no commercial value\". It summarizes that \"some pathologists consider this level of steatosis to be pathological but others do not\" and recommends that research \"should be carried out into methods of producing fat liver which do not require the use of force feeding\".\n\nThe EU report notes that continued force feeding leads to early death of the animal, and the birds are typically slaughtered just at the point that mortality would drastically increase from the force feeding. In the studies it examined, \"the mortality rate in force fed birds varies from 2% to 4% in the two week force feeding period compared with around 0.2% in comparable ducks\".\n\nOn the force feeding process, the EU committee examined several experiments carried out by INRA (Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique) to detect pain or distress by looking at blood hormones, and found that no definite conclusions can be drawn from these studies. Other studies looked at behavioral aversion to the feeding process and found that force fed ducks avoided the feeding pen when given a choice, whereas a majority of the control group not being force fed would enter the feeding pen voluntarily. Daily hand-feeding of ducks and geese is normally associated with a positive response by the animals towards the person feeding them. In contrast, the working group observed that ducks and geese in a pen kept away from their force feeder when he entered the room. In an unpublished pilot experiment by INRA, ducks in cages reportedly displayed less avoidance behaviour to the force feeder’s visit than to the visit of a neutral person coming along the cages later. However, in the working group's own observations, \"Ducks in cages had little opportunity to show avoidance but sometimes moved their heads away from the person who was about to force feed them.\"\n\nThe report also recommends collection of additional data regarding the health of the animals, feeding methods, animal housing, and socio-economic factors.\n\nIn 2004 and 2005, the American Veterinary Medical Association House of Delegates, the US accrediting body of veterinary medicine, was forwarded resolutions from its Animal Welfare Committee to oppose the production methods for foie gras. After hearing testimony from 13 delegates, the HOD declined to take a position and left a simple statement: \"Limited peer-reviewed, scientific information is available dealing with the animal welfare concerns associated with foie gras production, but the observations and practical experience shared by HOD members indicate a minimum of adverse effects on the birds involved.\"\n\nThe HOD sent delegates to visit foie gras farms. One delegate, Robert P Gordon of New Jersey, indicated his personal position changed drastically after the visit. He also testified tube feeding is less distressing than taking the rectal temperature of a cat and urged the AVMA to take a position based on science, not emotion, while cautioning against anthropomorphism. The New York delegation offered their opinion that opponents of foie gras were intending to create a wedge issue; that the arguments used against foie gras would be modified to be used against other livestock production. The testimony of the delegate from the Association of Avian Veterinarians was that medicating and feeding sick birds via tube was a normal practice that birds accepted without stress. Another delegate who toured the farms stated that the birds appeared to be well cared for and better off than other poultry raised in factory farming. The overall position of the House of Delegates was that \"observations and practical experience shared by HOD members indicate a minimum of adverse effects on the birds involved.\" The closing comments in the HOD were that the AVMA should be taking positions on facts and science, make broad policy positions on general animal welfare, and support positions that created oversight of controversial practices for fear that prohibition would cause production to move to countries without animal welfare regulation.\n\nCritics of the AVMA have stated that the organization tends to defend the economic interests of agribusiness over animal welfare, and that it has also declined to take a position against other controversial practices such as forced molting and gestation crates.\n\nIn June 2005, \"New York Times\" editor Lawrence Downes was invited to a visit of the same farm, including specifically the gavage process, and he \"saw no pain or panic...The birds submitted matter-of-factly to a 15-inch tube inserted down the throat for about three seconds, delivering about a cup of corn pellets. The practice...seemed neither particularly gentle nor particularly rough.\"\n\nDr. Ward Stone, wildlife pathologist with the NYSDEC and Adjunct Professor at SUNY has on several occasions conducted post-mortems on ducks that died from force feeding, including from the same farm a few months after Mr. Downes' visit. In September 2005, he writes: \"the short tortured lives of ducks raised for foie gras is well outside the norm of farm practice. Having seen the pathology that occurs from foie gras production, I strongly recommend that this practice be outlawed.\"\n\nIn 2005, the delegates from New Jersey and Vermont of the American Veterinary Medical Association gave testimony to the organization after touring tube-feeding farms. Dr. Robert Gordon had visited a farm in New York on July 5. He noted, \"After being on the premises, my position changed dramatically. I did not see animals I would consider distressed, and I didn't see pain and suffering.\" As written at AVMA news, Dr. Thomas Munschauer visited a New York farm at the request of \"both sides.\" \"I didn't see exploding esophaguses ... and it didn't seem like the birds were distressed. For the most part, they appear to be well-cared-for. That's what I saw.\"\n\nIn January 2009, The National Advertising Division (NAD) of the Council of Better Business Bureau recommended that New Jersey-based foie gras producer D'Artagnan cease advertising claims that their product is made from \"enlarged\" rather than \"diseased\" livers, and that the animals were \"hand-raised with tender care\". D'Artagnan voluntarily modified their advertising to remove the claims which the agency said had not been \"adequately substantiated.\"\n\nMost foie gras producers do not consider their methods cruel, insisting that it is a natural process exploiting the animals' natural features. Producers argue that wild ducks and geese naturally ingest large amounts of whole food and gain weight before migration. They claim that geese and ducks do not have a gag reflex in their throats the same way that humans do, and therefore do not appear to find force feeding uncomfortable. Michael Ginor, owner of Hudson Valley Foie Gras, author of \"Foie Gras... A Passion,\" claims his birds come to him to be fed and says this is important because \"a stressed or hurt bird won't eat and digest well or produce a foie gras.\"\n\nMirepoix USA, a top provider of goose and duck foie gras, alleges that the animal rights activists attack is a form of prohibition against a cuisine item. Mirepoix claims that the use of the term \"diseased\" to refer to fatted liver is inaccurate and that geese and ducks naturally store dead fish in their esophagi for long periods. The ducks used in foie gras production, however, are a hybrid of Pekin (a type of Mallard) and Muscovy ducks, both of which are dabbling ducks and as such, subsist mainly on a diet of underwater vegetation, larvae, and various insects.\n\nChef Anthony Bourdain and chef/writer Michael Ruhlman have both supported foie gras production from humanely treated, properly raised ducks, and stated that the footage seen in the videos of critics is cruel but that no reputable chef would buy such product. However other celebrity chefs such as Wolfgang Puck, and Albert Roux are against the use of foie gras. Roux has argued that foie gras should come with a warning so that \"people know what's being done to the animals.\" He states that \"More humane methods should be used that allow the animal to gorge themselves naturally.\" Chicago chef Charlie Trotter maintained that the production of foie gras is \"too cruel to be served.\" However, Trotter refused to be associated with animal rights groups stating \"These people are idiots. Understand my position: I have nothing to do with a group like that. I think they're pathetic.\"\n\nThe controversy over foie gras has been the subject of several lawsuits. The 1985 case Lovenheim v. Iroquois Brands was a shareholder suit regarding ethical concerns about a company selling foie gras.\n\nIn 2003, the Animal Protection and Rescue League and In Defense of Animals filed suit against Sonoma Foie Gras in California under the state's unfair business practices law, alleging animal cruelty. The farm also sued the two groups and four activists who documented conditions at the farm for trespass. The Legislature then intervened with a law allowing the farm to continue force feeding until the year 2012, after which point both the sale and production of foie gras has been illegal in California.\n\nIn 2006, Sonoma Foie Gras sued Whole Foods Market for intentional interference with contract for influencing Grimaud Farms to stop supplying ducklings and marketing for Sonoma. The suit is still pending as of February 2007.\n\nAlso pending is a 2006 lawsuit filed by the Humane Society of the United States against the New York Department of Agriculture and Markets, alleging that foie gras qualifies as an adulterated food that should not be sold.\n\nIn 2011, the Animal Legal Defense Fund filed a legal petition with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), urging that foie gras bear a consumer warning label stating \"NOTICE: Foie gras products are derived from diseased birds.\" ALDF argues that because the USDA is responsible for ensuring that poultry products are wholesome and for approving only products from healthy animals, stamping foie gras products with the USDA seal without disclosing that those products are derived from diseased birds misleads consumers, contravening the Poultry Products Inspection Act. Regularly eating foie gras can harm the health of predisposed people. Patients with Alzheimer's, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes and other amyloid-related diseases should not eat it.\n\nIn 2012, the Animal Legal Defense Fund sued Hudson Valley Foie Gras over its advertising as \"the humane choice\" for foie gras. Hudson Valley settled the case and dropped this advertising campaign after a federal judge in California indicated that he would allow the parties to present evidence and decide whether Hudson Valley could prove that its \"humane\" claims were truthful.\n\nIn February 2013, the Animal Legal Defense Fund filed an appeal in a lawsuit against the New York Department of Agriculture and Markets for allowing the ongoing sale of foie gras. The original lawsuit, which was dismissed in February for lack of standing, alleges that the Department violates its own Agriculture and Markets Law by allowing the sale of foie gras. New York's state law requires the Department to declare \"the product of a diseased animal\" an adulterated product. In the appeal, the Animal Legal Defense Fund will defend its legal standing to bring the case, noting it has diverted substantial resources to warn the public of the dangerous health risks posed by foie gras and, will assert that the Department's failure to regulate has resulted in the slaughter of hundreds of thousands of diseased birds whose organs are distributed into the human food supply.\n\nIn July 2014, India banned the import of foie gras making it the first and only country in the world to do so, causing dismay among some of the nation's chefs. The managing director of the Humane Society International of India said \"This is a triumph for animal welfare in India as well as across the globe, and sets a precedent for other countries to follow\".\n\nIn Australia, the production of foie gras is currently prohibited.\n\nFoie gras production is illegal in Argentina as a mistreatment or act of cruelty to animals.\n\nIn June 2015, the production and sale of foie gras was banned in São Paulo restaurants. In February 2016, the law was overturned.\n\nFoie-gras production is banned in several countries, including most of the Austrian provinces, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Poland, Turkey and the UK.\n\nThe force feeding of animals for non-medical purposes, essential to current foie gras production practices, is explicitly prohibited by specific laws in Austria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Poland, or following interpretation of general animal protection laws in Ireland, Sweden, Switzerland, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. However, foie gras can still be imported into and purchased in these countries.\nMost of these countries do not currently produce foie gras, nor have they in the past. Thus, these bans have stopped actual foie gras production in very few countries.\n\nSince 1997, the number of European countries producing foie gras has halved. Only five countries still produce foie gras: Belgium, Romania, Spain, France and Hungary.\n\nIn France, the fattening is achieved through gavage (force-feeding) corn, according to French law. French law states that \"Foie gras belongs to the protected cultural and gastronomical heritage of France.\"\n\nIn 2012, eight Members of the European Parliament called for foie gras to be banned across Europe.\n\n\"Until new scientific evidence on alternative methods and their welfare aspects is available\", the production of foie gras is prohibited by treaty except for \"where it is current practice\" among 35 countries bound by the Council of Europe's European Convention for the Protection of Animals kept for Farming Purposes.\n\nIn August 2003, the Supreme Court of Israel ordered the Israeli Ministry of Agriculture to ban the force feeding of geese, effective 31 March 2005. The last appeal was withdrawn in October 2005, but the law was left unenforced until February 2006. Most protest activities were conducted by the Anonymous for Animal Rights organization, which also tracks the enforcement of the ban, and files complaints against farms that conduct illegal force feeding. In May 2013, a bill proposed by Knesset Member Dov Lipman plans to prohibit all sales of the delicacy due to the controversial methods.\n\n\nSections 25980-25984 of the California Health and Safety Code, enacted in 2004 and effective from July 1, 2012, prohibits \"force feed[ing] a bird for the purpose of enlarging the bird's liver beyond normal size\" and the sale of products that are a result of this process. On January 7, 2015, Judge Stephen V. Wilson held that the California law was preempted by the federal Poultry Products Inspection Act, and enjoined the California Attorney General from enforcing it. The case was appealed to the Ninth Circuit and on September 15, 2017 the District Court's ruling was reversed and law was upheld.\n\nCity of San Diego: On January 8, 2008, the San Diego City Council unanimously passed a resolution that \"commends the Animal Protection and Rescue League (APRL) for raising awareness of the cruel practice of force-feeding ducks and geese to produce foie gras, commends the many San Diego restaurants that have stopped selling foie gras before the California statewide ban goes into effect, and encourages San Diegans to avoid supporting this extreme form of animal cruelty.\" The resolution also cites an independent Zogby poll finding that 85% of San Diegans favor an immediate ban on foie gras.\n\nCity of Chicago: On 26 April 2006, the Chicago City Council voted to ban the sale of foie gras, effective 22 August 2006 Breaches of the ban were to be punished with fines of $250–$500. Alderman Joe Moore, who proposed the ban, described the method by which foie gras is produced as \"clearly animal cruelty.\"\n\nIn response, several Chicago chefs filed suit and deliberately violated the law by continuing to sell foie gras. Furthermore, a handful of chefs served foie gras without charge, which they considered not to be against the law. Even for establishments that were violating the law, the City issued warning letters but, until February 17, 2007, no citations were given. On that date, Doug Sohn, owner of a gourmet hot dog shop was charged with a violation. Although the fine could have been as high as $500, Sohn agreed to pay a $250 fine on March 29. Several unusual dishes, including foie gras pizza, have been created in Chicago, in defiance of the City Council's banning of foie gras. 46,000 pounds of foie gras were sold in Chicago in 2006.\n\nIn December 2006, Chicago Mayor Richard M. Daley referred to the ban as \"the silliest law\" the City Council has ever passed. As a result of the ban, Chicago restaurants Spiaggia and Tru developed dishes designed to simulate the foie gras experience. \"Chicago Tribune\" restaurant critic Phil Vettel found Tru's \"Faux Gras\" \"close to the real thing\", and Spiaggia's \"terrina de fagato grasso vegetariano\" \"undeniably rich and indulgent\", but \"[lacking] the characteristic foie-gras intensity\".\n\nIn response to Mayor Daley's objections on the foie gras ban, the City Council overwhelmingly repealed Chicago's ban on May 14, 2008.\n\nA number of retailers have ceased the sale of foie gras produce following campaigns and protests over production methods. These include Amazon.co.uk, Waitrose, Sainsbury's, Lidl, House of Fraser and Harvey Nichols.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7400615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7400615", "title": "Franklin Prophecy", "text": "Franklin Prophecy\n\n\"The Franklin Prophecy\", sometimes called \"The Franklin Forgery\", is an antisemitic speech falsely attributed to Benjamin Franklin, warning of the supposed dangers of admitting Jews to the nascent United States. The speech was purportedly transcribed by Charles Cotesworth Pinckney during the Constitutional Convention of 1787, but was unknown before its appearance in 1934 in the pages of William Dudley Pelley's Silver Legion pro-Nazi weekly magazine \"Liberation\". No evidence exists for the document's authenticity, and some of the author's claims have actively been disproven.\n\nThe setting for the speech is a dinner table discussion purportedly recorded by Charles Cotesworth Pinckney during the convention of the Continental Congress. Primarily, it is a polemic arguing against admitting Jewish immigration into the newly formed United States. The text is as follows:\n\nAccording to Pelley, Charles Cotesworth Pinckney wrote that he had kept a journal of the Convention, but it has never been found; no evidence exists for Pelley's claim that it was printed privately. The Franklin Institute has rejected Pelley's claims that it owns a manuscript copy of the speech.\n\nThe U.S. Congress report \"Anti-Semitism in Europe: Hearing Before the Subcommittee on European Affairs of the Committee on Foreign Relations\" (2004) states: \nThe Franklin \"Prophecy\" is a classic anti-Semitic canard that falsely claims that American statesman Benjamin Franklin made anti-Jewish statements during the Constitutional Convention of 1787. It has found widening acceptance in Muslim and Arab media, where it has been used to criticize Israel and Jews...\n\nFranklin was a friend to the Jews of 18th-century America, and contributed toward the building of Philadelphia's first permanent synagogue. The Anti-Defamation League noted that the reference to a return to Palestine was an anachronism, since the modern Zionist movement did not arise until nearly a century after Franklin's death.\n\nSimilar antisemitic quotations have been attributed to George Washington and have been disproven. In 1790, in a marked sign of religious tolerance, Washington sent a letter to the Jewish community in Rhode Island, writing \"May the Children of the Stock of Abraham, who dwell in this land, continue to merit and enjoy the good will of the other Inhabitants; while every one shall sit under his own vine and fig tree, and there shall be none to make him afraid.\"\n\nDespite having been repeatedly discredited since its first appearance, the \"prophecy\" has proved a remarkably durable antisemitic canard. It has appeared most recently as a popular Internet hoax promulgated on Usenet groups and antisemitic websites, where it is presented as authentic. On February 18, 1998, a member of the Fatah Central Committee revived this myth and mistakenly referred to Franklin as a former President of the United States. Osama Bin Laden used this canard briefly in his October 2002 \"Letter to the American People\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9934311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9934311", "title": "Hanoi Opera House", "text": "Hanoi Opera House\n\nThe Hanoi Opera House, or the Grand Opera House (, ) is an opera house in central Hanoi, Vietnam. It was erected by the French colonial administration between 1901 and 1911. \n\nIt was modeled on the Palais Garnier, the older of Paris's two opera houses, and is considered to be one of the architectural landmarks of Hanoi. After the departure of the French the opera house became the scene for several political events. as well as the scene of street fighting during the fight for Hanoi.\n\nThe Hanoi Opera House provides the names for the neighboring Hilton Hanoi Opera Hotel which opened in 1999, as well as for the MGallery Hotel de l'Opera Hanoi, which opened in 2011. For historical reasons associated with the Vietnam war, the Hilton Hanoi Opera Hotel was not named the Hanoi Hilton.\n\nThe opera house is described in the memoirs of Blanche Arral who performed in the new Hanoi Opera House in 1902 while waiting for the 1902 Exposition of Hanoi to open. The opera had depended on touring artists performing French and Italian repertoire during the colonial period for a mainly French audience.\n\nAfter the departure of the French the building was used for Vietnamese plays and musicals. The return of Western opera, and the first major non-French or Italian opera, was a performance of Tchaikovsky's \"Eugene Onegin\" organised under Vietnam-Soviet cultural auspices in 1960, where the Russian vocal coach selected an untrained singer Quý Dương as a fit for the baritone title role.\n\nToday the orchestra of the opera overlaps with the Vietnam National Symphony Orchestra, and calls on the Hanoi Philharmonic Orchestra of the Hanoi Conservatory. Famous singers of the company include the Tchaikovsky Conservatory-trained soprano Lê Dung, the youngest ever person to be awarded People's Artist of Vietnam in 1993.\n\nThe Opera has seen many premieres of operas and musicals by Vietnamese composers. The operas of Đỗ Nhuận - \"Cô Sao\" ('Miss Sao') 1965, \"Người tạc tượng\" ('The Sculptor') 1971 and \"Nguyễn Trãi\" 1980, the works of Lưu Hữu Phước and the choral works of film composer Đặng Hữu Phúc. As well as works by returning emigre composers such as Nguyễn Thiên Đạo, a pupil of Messiaen in Paris.\n\nThe National Ballet is also part of the Opera House company - and stages Western classics such as Swan Lake as well as traditional and modern Vietnamese dance productions.\n\nBoth are smaller structures built around the same time.\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "10723535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10723535", "title": "Heart-Shaped Glasses (When the Heart Guides the Hand)", "text": "Heart-Shaped Glasses (When the Heart Guides the Hand)\n\n\"Heart-Shaped Glasses (When the Heart Guides the Hand)\" is a song by Marilyn Manson. It was released as the first single from their sixth album, \"Eat Me, Drink Me\" released on June 5, 2007.\n\nInitially, \"Putting Holes In Happiness\" was set as the first single from the album, but this was changed, similar to the case of \"Get Your Gunn\". The digital single was released on iTunes on April 24 and also added to the player on Manson's MySpace page on the same date. The CD single was released in Germany on May 25, and in the United Kingdom on May 28. A thirty-one second preview clip was released on French radio website \"Radio France\" on April 9, 2007. The single was played again in full on April 11 (after being debuted on the same radio station days before), 2007 at 20:05 GMT on the French radio station Le Mouv'. The whole track was leaked onto the web as was apparent on several YouTube videos, which were revoked by the Universal Music Group.\n\nOn April 27, 2007, a 34-second clip of the video for \"Heart-Shaped Glasses (When the Heart Guides the Hand)\" was released on YouTube, featuring Manson and girlfriend Evan Rachel Wood kissing while drenched in blood. Later, the video appeared on Manson's official website.\n\nOn May 22, 2007, an exclusive single was released through Hot Topic, containing a different B-side than the other singles.\n\nOn May 23, 2007, Marilyn Manson and Tim Skold performed an acoustic version of the track on BBC Radio 1.\n\nThe video officially premiered on the German website sevenload on May 8, 2007. It contains a 2:47 introduction featuring Manson and girlfriend Evan Rachel Wood kissing maliciously while having simulated sex and scenes of her being covered in blood, overdubbed with an instrumental of the \"Eat Me, Drink Me\" track \"Evidence\". At the 1:35 mark the scene cuts to Manson and Wood driving down a highway in the dark, Wood daring Manson to go faster, to which Manson proclaims \"[I'm] going as fast as I can.\" Manson takes his hands off the wheel to take numerous pictures of Wood, who lifts her leg up to the wheel and holds a knife to her mouth while wearing heart-shaped glasses. The two kiss again, concluding the introduction, and the setting cuts to a club.\n\nOn stage, in front of a large crowd, Manson begins singing as Wood watches him intently, apparently masturbating, from the crowd (still wearing the heart-shaped glasses), while numerous photos begin to fall over the audience. Shots of the two driving are flashed throughout the video, as the scene once again changes, this time revealing Manson and Wood in a bed, drenched in what appears to be blood. The two begin kissing vigorously again before the final scene returns to the two of them speeding along the highway. The front of the car erupts in flames, and they continue along, kissing once again. Manson says \"Together as one...\", and Wood replies \"Against all others\", before they drive off a cliff and fall, the video ending as they crash.\n\nThe video was directed by Marilyn Manson using a 3-D system developed by James Cameron.\n\nIt had been rumored that the scenes in the video depicting sex between Manson and Wood was footage of legitimate sex between the two. To make matters more confusing, in an MTV interview with Manson, he did not confirm or deny the authenticity of the depictions, at one point dismissing it:\n\nAnd at another point implying the possibility that the sex was in fact real:\n\nEvan Rachel Wood has said the sex was not real, however.\n\nCD single\n\nUK CD single\n\nUK 7\" vinyl and Enhanced CD single\n\nPromo single\n\nHot Topic exclusive CD single\n\n"}
{"id": "14208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14208", "title": "Holocene extinction", "text": "Holocene extinction\n\nThe Holocene extinction, otherwise referred to as the Sixth extinction or Anthropocene extinction, is the ongoing extinction event of species during the present Holocene epoch, mainly as a result of human activity. The large number of extinctions spans numerous families of plants and animals, including mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles and arthropods. With widespread degradation of highly biodiverse habitats such as coral reefs and rainforests, as well as other areas, the vast majority of these extinctions are thought to be \"undocumented\", as no one is even aware of the existence of the species before they go extinct, or no one has yet discovered their extinction. The current rate of extinction of species is estimated at 100 to 1,000 times higher than natural background rates.\n\nThe Holocene extinction includes the disappearance of large land animals known as megafauna, starting at the end of the last Ice Age. Megafauna outside of the African continent, which did not evolve alongside humans, proved highly sensitive to the introduction of new predation, and many died out shortly after early humans began spreading and hunting across the Earth (additionally, many African species have also gone extinct in the Holocene). These extinctions, occurring near the Pleistocene–Holocene boundary, are sometimes referred to as the Quaternary extinction event.\n\nThe arrival of humans on different continents coincides with megafaunal extinction. The most popular theory is that human overhunting of species added to existing stress conditions. Although there is debate regarding how much human predation affected their decline, certain population declines have been directly correlated with human activity, such as the extinction events of New Zealand and Hawaii. Aside from humans, climate change may have been a driving factor in the megafaunal extinctions, especially at the end of the Pleistocene.\n\nEcologically, humanity has been noted as an unprecedented \"global superpredator\" that consistently preys on the adults of other apex predators, and has worldwide effects on food webs. There have been extinctions of species on every land mass and in every ocean: there are many famous examples within Africa, Asia, Europe, Australia, North and South America, and on smaller islands. Overall, the Holocene extinction can be linked to the human impact on the environment. The Holocene extinction continues into the 21st century, with meat consumption, overfishing, ocean acidification and the decline in amphibian populations being a few broader examples of an almost universal, cosmopolitan decline in biodiversity. Human overpopulation (and continued population growth) along with profligate consumption are considered to be the primary drivers of this rapid decline.\n\nThe Holocene extinction is also known as the \"sixth extinction\", as it is possibly the sixth mass extinct event, after the Ordovician–Silurian extinction events, the Late Devonian extinction, the Permian–Triassic extinction event, the Triassic–Jurassic extinction event, and the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event. Mass extinctions are characterized by the loss of at least 75% of species within a geologically short period of time. There is no general agreement on where the Holocene, or anthropogenic, extinction begins, and the Quaternary extinction event, which includes climate change resulting in the end of the last ice age, ends, or if they should be considered separate events at all. Some have suggested that anthropogenic extinctions may have begun as early as when the first modern humans spread out of Africa between 200,000 and 100,000 years ago; this is supported by rapid megafaunal extinction following recent human colonisation in Australia, New Zealand and Madagascar, as might be expected when any large, adaptable predator (invasive species) moves into a new ecosystem. In many cases, it is suggested that even minimal hunting pressure was enough to wipe out large fauna, particularly on geographically isolated islands. Only during the most recent parts of the extinction have plants also suffered large losses.\n\nIn \"The Future of Life\" (2002), Edward Osborne Wilson of Harvard calculated that, if the current rate of human disruption of the biosphere continues, one-half of Earth's higher lifeforms will be extinct by 2100. A 1998 poll conducted by the American Museum of Natural History found that 70% of biologists acknowledge an ongoing anthropogenic extinction event. At present, the rate of extinction of species is estimated at 100 to 1,000 times higher than the background extinction rate, the historically typical rate of extinction (in terms of the natural evolution of the planet); also, the current rate of extinction is 10 to 100 times higher than in any of the previous mass extinctions in the history of Earth. One scientist estimates the current extinction rate may be 10,000 times the background extinction rate, although most scientists predict a much lower extinction rate than this outlying estimate. Theoretical ecologist Stuart Pimm stated that the extinction rate for plants is 100 times higher than normal.\n\nIn a pair of studies published in 2015, extrapolation from observed extinction of Hawaiian snails led to the conclusion that 7% of all species on Earth may have been lost already.\n\nThere is widespread consensus among scientists that human activity is accelerating the extinction of many animal species through the destruction of habitats, the consumption of animals as resources, and the elimination of species that humans view as threats or competitors. But some contend that this biotic destruction has yet to reach the level of the previous five mass extinctions. Stuart Pimm, for example, asserts that the sixth mass extinction \"is something that hasn't happened yet – we are on the edge of it.\" In November 2017, a statement, titled \"World Scientists’ Warning to Humanity: A Second Notice\", led by eight authors and signed by 15,364 scientists from 184 countries asserted that, among other things, \"we have unleashed a mass extinction event, the sixth in roughly 540 million years, wherein many current life forms could be annihilated or at least committed to extinction by the end of this century.\"\n\nThe abundance of species extinctions considered anthropogenic, or due to human activity, have sometimes (especially when referring to hypothesized future events) been collectively called the \"Anthropocene extinction\". \"Anthropocene\" is a term introduced in 2000. Some now postulate that a new geological epoch has begun, with the most abrupt and widespread extinction of species since the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event 66 million years ago.\n\nThe term \"anthropocene\" is being used more frequently by scientists, and some commentators may refer to the current and projected future extinctions as part of a longer Holocene extinction. The Holocene–Anthropocene boundary is contested, with some commentators asserting significant human influence on climate for much of what is normally regarded as the Holocene Epoch. Other commentators place the Holocene–Anthropocene boundary at the industrial revolution and also say that \"[f]ormal adoption of this term in the near future will largely depend on its utility, particularly to earth scientists working on late Holocene successions.\"\n\nIt has been suggested that human activity has made the period starting from the mid-20th century different enough from the rest of the Holocene to consider it a new geological epoch, known as the Anthropocene, a term which was considered for inclusion in the timeline of Earth's history by the International Commission on Stratigraphy in 2016. In order to constitute the Holocene as an extinction event, scientists must determine exactly when anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions began to measurably alter natural atmospheric levels on a global scale, and when these alterations caused changes to global climate. Using chemical proxies from Antarctic ice cores, researchers have estimated the fluctuations of carbon dioxide (CO) and methane (CH) gases in the Earth's atmosphere during the late Pleistocene and Holocene epochs. Estimates of the fluctuations of these two gases in the atmosphere, using chemical proxies from Antarctic ice cores, generally indicate that the peak of the Anthropocene occurred within the previous two centuries: typically beginning with the Industrial Revolution, when the highest greenhouse gas levels were recorded.\n\nThe Holocene extinction is mainly caused by human activity. Extinction of animals, plants, and other organisms caused by human actions may go as far back as the late Pleistocene, over 12,000 years ago. There is a correlation between megafaunal extinction and the arrival of humans, and human overpopulation and human population growth, along with overconsumption and consumption growth, most prominently in the past two centuries, are regarded as one of the underlying causes of extinction.\n\nMegafauna were once found on every continent of the world and large islands such as New Zealand and Madagascar, but are now almost exclusively found on the continent of Africa, with notable comparisons on Australia and the islands previously mentioned experiencing population crashes and trophic cascades shortly after the earliest human settlers. It has been suggested that the African megafauna survived because they evolved alongside humans. The timing of South American megafaunal extinction appears to precede human arrival, although the possibility that human activity at the time impacted the global climate enough to cause such an extinction has been suggested.\n\nIt has been noted, in the face of such evidence, that humans are unique in ecology as an unprecedented 'global superpredator', regularly preying on large numbers of fully grown terrestrial and marine apex predators, and with a great deal of influence over food webs and climatic systems worldwide. Although significant debate exists as to how much human predation and indirect effects contributed to prehistoric extinctions, certain population crashes have been directly correlated with human arrival. A 2018 study published in \"PNAS\" found that since the dawn of human civilization, 83% of wild mammals, 80% of marine mammals, 50% of plants and 15% of fish have vanished. Currently, livestock make up 60% of the biomass of all mammals on earth, followed by humans (36%) and wild mammals (4%). As for birds, 70% are domesticated, such as poultry, whereas only 30% are wild.\n\nMore recently, some scholars assert that the emergence of capitalism as the dominant economic system has accelerated ecological exploitation and destruction, and has also exacerbated mass species extinction. CUNY professor David Harvey, for example, posits that the neoliberal era \"happens to be the era of the fastest mass extinction of species in the Earth's recent history\".\n\nHuman civilization flourished in accordance to the efficiency and intensity of prevailing subsistence systems. Local communities that acquire more subsistence strategies increased in number to combat competitive pressures of land utilization. Therefore, the Holocene developed competition on the basis of agriculture. The growth of agriculture has then introduced newer means of climate change, pollution, and ecological development.\n\nHabitat destruction by humans, including oceanic devastation, such as through overfishing and contamination; and the modification and destruction of vast tracts of land and river systems around the world to meet solely human-centered ends (with 13 percent of Earth's ice-free land surface now used as row-crop agricultural sites, 26 percent used as pastures, and 4 percent urban-industrial areas), thus replacing the original local ecosystems. Other, related human causes of the extinction event include deforestation, hunting, pollution, the introduction in various regions of non-native species, and the widespread transmission of infectious diseases spread through livestock and crops.\n\nRecent investigations about hunter-gatherer landscape burning has a major implication for the current debate about the timing of the Anthropocene and the role that humans may have played in the production of greenhouse gases prior to the Industrial Revolution. Studies on early hunter-gatherers raises questions about the current use of population size or density as a proxy for the amount of land clearance and anthropogenic burning that took place in pre-industrial times. Scientists have questioned the correlation between population size and early territorial alterations. Ruddiman and Ellis' research paper in 2009 makes the case that early farmers involved in systems of agriculture used more land per capita than growers later in the Holocene, who intensified their labor to produce more food per unit of area (thus, per laborer); arguing that agricultural involvement in rice production implemented thousands of years ago by relatively small populations have created significant environmental impacts through large-scale means of deforestation.\n\nWhile a number of human-derived factors are recognized as potentially contributing to rising atmospheric concentrations of CH (methane) and CO (carbon dioxide), deforestation and territorial clearance practices associated with agricultural development may be contributing most to these concentrations globally. Scientists that are employing a variance of archaeological and paleoecological data argue that the processes contributing to substantial human modification of the environment spanned many thousands of years ago on a global scale and thus, not originating as early as the Industrial Revolution. Gaining popularity on his uncommon hypothesis, palaeoclimatologist William Ruddiman in 2003, stipulated that in the early Holocene 11,000 years ago, atmospheric carbon dioxide and methane levels fluctuated in a pattern which was different from the Pleistocene epoch before it. He argued that the patterns of the significant decline of CO levels during the last ice age of the Pleistocene inversely correlates to the Holocene where there have been dramatic increases of CO around 8000 years ago and CH levels 3000 years after that. The correlation between the decrease of CO in the Pleistocene and the increase of it during the Holocene implies that the causation of this spark of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere was the growth of human agriculture during the Holocene such as the anthropogenic expansion of (human) land use and irrigation.\n\nHuman arrival in the Caribbean around 6,000 years ago is correlated with the extinction of many species. Examples include many different genera of ground and arboreal sloths across all islands. These sloths were generally smaller than those found on the South American continent. \"Megalocnus\" were the largest genus at up to , \"Acratocnus\" were medium-sized relatives of modern two-toed sloths endemic to Cuba, \"Imagocnus\" also of Cuba, \"Neocnus\" and many others.\n\nRecent research, based on archaeological and paleontological digs on 70 different Pacific islands has shown that numerous species became extinct as people moved across the Pacific, starting 30,000 years ago in the Bismarck Archipelago and Solomon Islands. It is currently estimated that among the bird species of the Pacific, some 2000 species have gone extinct since the arrival of humans, representing a 20% drop in the biodiversity of birds worldwide.\n\nThe first settlers are thought to have arrived in the islands between 300 and 800 CE, with European arrival in the 16th century. Hawaii is notable for its endemism of plants, birds, insects, mollusks and fish; 30% of its organisms are endemic. Many of its species are endangered or have gone extinct, primarily due to accidentally introduced species and livestock grazing. Over 40% of its bird species have gone extinct, and it is the location of 75% of extinctions in the United States. Extinction has increased in Hawaii over the last 200 years and is relatively well documented, with extinctions among native snails used as estimates for global extinction rates.\n\nAustralia was once home to a large assemblage of megafauna, with many parallels to those found on the African continent today. Australia's fauna is characterised by primarily marsupial mammals, and many reptiles and birds, all existing as giant forms until recently. Humans arrived on the continent very early, about 50,000 years ago. The extent human arrival contributed is controversial; climatic drying of Australia 40,000–60,000 years ago was an unlikely cause, as it was less severe in speed or magnitude than previous regional climate change which failed to kill off megafauna. Extinctions in Australia continued from original settlement until today in both plants and animals, whilst many more animals and plants have declined or are endangered.\n\nDue to the older timeframe and the soil chemistry on the continent, very little subfossil preservation evidence exists relative to elsewhere. However, continent-wide extinction of all genera weighing over 100 kilograms, and six of seven genera weighing between 45 and 100 kilograms occurred around 46,400 years ago (4,000 years after human arrival) and the fact that megafauna survived until a later date on the island of Tasmania following the establishment of a land bridge suggest direct hunting or anthropogenic ecosystem disruption such as fire-stick farming as likely causes. The first evidence of direct human predation leading to extinction in Australia was published in 2016.\nWithin 500 years of the arrival of humans between 2,500–2,000 years ago, nearly all of Madagascar's distinct, endemic and geographically isolated megafauna became extinct. The largest animals, of more than , were extinct very shortly after the first human arrival, with large and medium-sized species dying out after prolonged hunting pressure from an expanding human population moving into more remote regions of the island around 1000 years ago. Smaller fauna experienced initial increases due to decreased competition, and then subsequent declines over the last 500 years. All fauna weighing over died out. The primary reasons for this are human hunting and habitat loss from early aridification, both of which persist and threaten Madagascar's remaining taxa today.\n\nThe eight or more species of elephant birds, giant flightless ratites in the genera \"Aepyornis\" and \"Mullerornis\", are extinct from over-hunting, as well as 17 species of lemur, known as giant, subfossil lemurs. Some of these lemurs typically weighed over , and fossils have provided evidence of human butchery on many species.\n\nNew Zealand is characterised by its geographic isolation and island biogeography, and had been isolated from mainland Australia for 80 million years. It was the last large land mass to be colonised by humans. The arrival of Polynesian settlers circa 12th century resulted in the extinction of all of the islands' megafaunal birds within several hundred years. The last moa, large flightless ratites, became extinct within 200 years of the arrival of human settlers. The Polynesians also introduced the Polynesian rat. This may have put some pressure on other birds but at the time of early European contact (18th Century) and colonisation (19th Century) the bird life was prolific. With them, the Europeans brought ship rats, possums, cats and mustelids which decimated native bird life, some of which had adapted flightlessness and ground nesting habits and others had no defensive behavior as a result of having no extant endemic mammalian predators. The kakapo, the world's biggest parrot, which is flightless, now only exists in managed breeding sanctuaries. New Zealand's national emblem, the kiwi, is on the endangered bird list.\n\nThere has been a debate as to the extent to which the disappearance of megafauna at the end of the last glacial period can be attributed to human activities by hunting, or even by slaughter of prey populations. Discoveries at Monte Verde in South America and at Meadowcroft Rock Shelter in Pennsylvania have caused a controversy regarding the Clovis culture. There likely would have been human settlements prior to the Clovis Culture, and the history of humans in the Americas may extend back many thousands of years before the Clovis culture. The amount of correlation between human arrival and megafauna extinction is still being debated: for example, in Wrangel Island in Siberia the extinction of dwarf woolly mammoths (approximately 2000 BCE) did not coincide with the arrival of humans, nor did megafaunal mass extinction on the South American continent, although it has been suggested climate changes induced by anthropogenic effects elsewhere in the world may have contributed.\n\nComparisons are sometimes made between recent extinctions (approximately since the industrial revolution) and the Pleistocene extinction near the end of the last glacial period. The latter is exemplified by the extinction of large herbivores such as the woolly mammoth and the carnivores that preyed on them. Humans of this era actively hunted the mammoth and the mastodon but it is not known if this hunting was the cause of the subsequent massive ecological changes, widespread extinctions and climate changes.\n\nThe ecosystems encountered by the first Americans had not been exposed to human interaction, and may have been far less resilient to human made changes than the ecosystems encountered by industrial era humans. Therefore, the actions of the Clovis people, despite seeming insignificant by today's standards could indeed have had a profound effect on the ecosystems and wild life which was entirely unused to human influence.\n\nAfrica experienced the smallest decline in megafauna compared to the other continents. This is presumably due to the idea that Afroeurasian megafauna evolved alongside humans, and thus developed a healthy fear of them, unlike the comparatively tame animals of other continents. Unlike other continents, the megafauna of Eurasia went extinct over a relatively long period of time, possibly due to climate fluctuations fragmenting and decreasing populations, leaving them vulnerable to over-exploitation, as with the steppe bison (\"Bison priscus\"). The warming of the arctic region caused the rapid decline of grasslands, which had a negative effect on the grazing megafauna of Eurasia. Most of what once was mammoth steppe has been converted to mire, rendering the environment incapable of supporting them, notably the woolly mammoth.\n\nOne of the main theories to the extinction is climate change. The climate change theory has suggested that a change in climate near the end of the late Pleistocene stressed the megafauna to the point of extinction. Some scientists favor abrupt climate change as the catalyst for the extinction of the mega-fauna at the end of the Pleistocene, but there are many who believe increased hunting from early modern humans also played a part, with others even suggesting that the two interacted. However, the annual mean temperature of the current interglacial period for the last 10,000 years is no higher than that of previous interglacial periods, yet some of the same megafauna survived similar temperature increases. In the Americas, a controversial explanation for the shift in climate is presented under the Younger Dryas impact hypothesis, which states that the impact of comets cooled global temperatures.\n\nMegafauna play a significant role in the lateral transport of mineral nutrients in an ecosystem, tending to translocate them from areas of high to those of lower abundance. They do so by their movement between the time they consume the nutrient and the time they release it through elimination (or, to a much lesser extent, through decomposition after death). In South America's Amazon Basin, it is estimated that such lateral diffusion was reduced over 98% following the megafaunal extinctions that occurred roughly 12,500 years ago. Given that phosphorus availability is thought to limit productivity in much of the region, the decrease in its transport from the western part of the basin and from floodplains (both of which derive their supply from the uplift of the Andes) to other areas is thought to have significantly impacted the region's ecology, and the effects may not yet have reached their limits. The extinction of the mammoths allowed grasslands they had maintained through grazing habits to become birch forests. The new forest and the resulting forest fires may have induced climate change. Such disappearances might be the result of the proliferation of modern humans; some recent studies favor this theory.\n\nLarge populations of megaherbivores have the potential to contribute greatly to the atmospheric concentration of methane, which is an important greenhouse gas. Modern ruminant herbivores produce methane as a byproduct of foregut fermentation in digestion, and release it through belching or flatulence. Today, around 20% of annual methane emissions come from livestock methane release. In the Mesozoic, it has been estimated that sauropods could have emitted 520 million tons of methane to the atmosphere annually, contributing to the warmer climate of the time (up to 10 °C warmer than at present). This large emission follows from the enormous estimated biomass of sauropods, and because methane production of individual herbivores is believed to be almost proportional to their mass.\n\nRecent studies have indicated that the extinction of megafaunal herbivores may have caused a reduction in atmospheric methane. This hypothesis is relatively new. One study examined the methane emissions from the bison that occupied the Great Plains of North America before contact with European settlers. The study estimated that the removal of the bison caused a decrease of as much as 2.2 million tons per year. Another study examined the change in the methane concentration in the atmosphere at the end of the Pleistocene epoch after the extinction of megafauna in the Americas. After early humans migrated to the Americas about 13,000 BP, their hunting and other associated ecological impacts led to the extinction of many megafaunal species there. Calculations suggest that this extinction decreased methane production by about 9.6 million tons per year. This suggests that the absence of megafaunal methane emissions may have contributed to the abrupt climatic cooling at the onset of the Younger Dryas. The decrease in atmospheric methane that occurred at that time, as recorded in ice cores, was 2–4 times more rapid than any other decrease in the last half million years, suggesting that an unusual mechanism was at work.\n\nThe hyperdisease hypothesis, proposed by Ross MacPhee in 1997, states that the megafaunal die-off was due to an indirect transmission of diseases by newly arriving aboriginal humans. According to MacPhee, aboriginals or animals travelling with them, such as domestic dogs or livestock, introduced one or more highly virulent diseases into new environments whose native population had no immunity to them, eventually leading to their extinction. K-selection animals, such as the now-extinct megafauna, are especially vulnerable to diseases, as opposed to r-selection animals who have a shorter gestation period and a higher population size. Humans are thought to be the sole cause as other earlier migrations of animals into North America from Eurasia did not cause extinctions.\n\nThere are many problems with this theory, as this disease would have to meet several criteria: it has to be able to sustain itself in an environment with no hosts; it has to have a high infection rate; and be extremely lethal, with a mortality rate of 50–75%. Disease has to be very virulent to kill off all the individuals in a genus or species, and even such a virulent disease as West Nile Virus is unlikely to have caused extinction.\n\nHowever, diseases have been the cause for some extinctions. The introduction of avian malaria and avipoxvirus, for example, have had a negative impact on the endemic birds of Hawaii.\n\nThe loss of species from ecological communities, defaunation, is primarily driven by human activity. This has resulted in empty forests, ecological communities depleted of large vertebrates. This is not to be confused with extinction, as it includes both the disappearance of species and declines in abundance. Defaunation effects were first implied at the Symposium of Plant-Animal Interactions at the University of Campinas, Brazil in 1988 in the context of neotropical forests. Since then, the term has gained broader usage in conservation biology as a global phenomenon.\n\nBig cat populations have severely declined over the last half-century and could face extinction in the following decades. According to IUCN estimates: lions are down to 25,000, from 450,000; leopards are down to 50,000, from 750,000; cheetahs are down to 12,000, from 45,000; tigers are down to 3,000 in the wild, from 50,000. A December 2016 study by the Zoological Society of London, Panthera Corporation and Wildlife Conservation Society showed that cheetahs are far closer to extinction than previously thought, with only 7,100 remaining in the wild, and crammed within only 9% of their historic range. Human pressures are to blame for the cheetah population crash, including prey loss due to overhunting by people, retaliatory killing from farmers, habitat loss and the illegal wildlife trade.\n\nThe term pollinator decline refers to the reduction in abundance of insect and other animal pollinators in many ecosystems worldwide beginning at the end of the twentieth century, and continuing into the present day. Pollinators, which are necessary for 75% of food crops, are declining globally in both abundance and diversity. A 2017 study led by Radboud University's Hans de Kroon indicated that the biomass of insect life in Germany had declined by three-quarters in the previous 25 years. Participating researcher Dave Goulson of Sussex University stated that their study suggested that humans are making large parts of the planet uninhabitable for wildlife. Goulson characterized the situation as an approaching \"ecological Armageddon\", adding that \"if we lose the insects then everything is going to collapse.\"\n\nVarious species are predicted to become extinct in the near future, among them the rhinoceros, nonhuman primates, pangolins, and giraffes. Hunting alone threatens bird and mammalian populations around the world. Mammals in particular have suffered such severe losses as the result of human activity that it could take several million years for them to recover. According to the WWF's 2016 \"Living Planet Report\", global wildlife populations have declined 58% since 1970, primarily due to habitat destruction, over-hunting and pollution. They project that if current trends continue, 67% of wildlife could disappear by 2020. In their 2018 report, the WWF found that overconsumption of resources by the global population has destroyed 60% of animal populations since 1970, and this continued destruction of wildlife is an emergency which threatens the survival of human civilization. 189 countries, which are signatory to the Convention on Biological Diversity (Rio Accord), have committed to preparing a Biodiversity Action Plan, a first step at identifying specific endangered species and habitats, country by country.\n\nRecent extinctions are more directly attributable to human influences, whereas prehistoric extinctions can be attributed to other factors, such as global climate change. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) characterises 'recent' extinction as those that have occurred past the cut-off point of 1500, and at least 875 species have gone extinct since that time and 2012. Some species, such as the Père David's deer and the Hawaiian crow, are extinct in the wild, and survive solely in captive populations. Other species, such as the Florida panther, are ecologically extinct, surviving in such low numbers that they essentially have no impact on the ecosystem. Other populations are only locally extinct (extirpated), still existence elsewhere, but reduced in distribution, as with the extinction of gray whales in the Atlantic, and of the leatherback sea turtle in Malaysia.\n\nGlobal warming is widely accepted as being a contributor to extinction worldwide, in a similar way that previous extinction events have generally included a rapid change in global climate and meteorology. It is also expected to disrupt sex ratios in many reptiles which have temperature-dependent sex determination.\n\nThe removal of land to clear way for palm oil plantations releases carbon emissions held in the peatlands of Indonesia. Palm oil mainly serves as a cheap cooking oil, and also as a (controversial) biofuel. However, damage to peatland contributes to 4% of global greenhouse gas emissions, and 8% of those caused by burning fossil fuels. Palm oil cultivation has also been criticized for other impacts to the environment, including deforestation, which has threatened critically endangered species such as the orangutan and the tree-kangaroo. The IUCN stated in 2016 that the species could go extinct within a decade if measures are not taken to preserve the rainforests in which they live.\n\nSome scientists and academics assert that industrial agriculture and the growing demand for meat is contributing to significant global biodiversity loss as this is a significant driver of deforestation and habitat destruction; species-rich habitats, such as significant portions of the Amazon region, are being converted to agriculture for meat production. A 2017 study by the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) found that 60% of biodiversity loss can be attributed to the vast scale of feed crop cultivation required to rear tens of billions of farm animals. Moreover, a 2006 report by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations, \"Livestock's Long Shadow\", also found that the livestock sector is a \"leading player\" in biodiversity loss.\n\nRising levels of carbon dioxide are resulting in influx of this gas into the ocean, increasing its acidity. Marine organisms which possess calcium carbonate shells or exoskeletons experience physiological pressure as the carbonate reacts with acid. For example, this is already resulting in coral bleaching on various coral reefs worldwide, which provide valuable habitat and maintain a high biodiversity. Marine gastropods, bivalves and other invertebrates are also affected, as are the organisms that feed on them. According to a 2018 study published in \"Science\", global Orca populations are poised to collapse due to toxic chemical and PCB pollution. PCBs are still leaking into the sea in spite of being banned for decades.\n\nSome researchers suggest that by 2050 there could be more plastic than fish in the oceans by weight, with about of plastic being discharged into the oceans annually. Single-use plastics, such as plastic shopping bags, make up the bulk of this, and can often be ingested by marine life, such as with sea turtles. These plastics can degrade into microplastics, smaller particles that can affect a larger array of species. Microplastics make up the bulk of the Great Pacific Garbage Patch, and their smaller size is detrimental to cleanup efforts.\n\nOverhunting can reduce the local population of game animals by more than half, as well as reducing population density, and may lead to extinction for some species. Populations located nearer to villages are significantly more at risk of depletion. Several conservationist organizations, among them IFAW and HSUS, assert that trophy hunters, particularly from the United States, are playing a significant role in the decline of giraffes, which they refer to as a \"silent extinction\".\n\nThe surge in the mass killings by poachers involved in the illegal ivory trade along with habitat loss is threatening African elephant populations. In 1979, their populations stood at 1.7 million; at present there are fewer than 400,000 remaining. Prior to European colonization, scientists believe Africa was home to roughly 20 million elephants. According to the Great Elephant Census, 30% of African elephants (or 144,000 individuals) disappeared over a seven-year period, 2007 to 2014. African elephants could become extinct by 2035 if poaching rates continue.\n\nFishing has had a devastating effect on marine organism populations for several centuries even before the explosion of destructive and highly effective fishing practices like trawling. Humans are unique among predators in that they regularly prey on other adult apex predators, particularly in marine environments; bluefin tuna, blue whales, North Atlantic right whales and various sharks in particular are particularly vulnerable to predation pressure from human fishing. A 2016 study published in \"Science\" concludes that humans tend to hunt larger species, and this could disrupt ocean ecosystems for millions of years.\n\nThe decline of amphibian populations has also been identified as an indicator of environmental degradation. As well as habitat loss, introduced predators and pollution, Chytridiomycosis, a fungal infection thought to have been accidentally spread by human travel, has caused severe population drops of several species of frogs, including (among many others) the extinction of the golden toad in Costa Rica and the Gastric-brooding frog in Australia. Many other amphibian species now face extinction, including the reduction of Rabb's fringe-limbed treefrog to an endling, and the extinction of the Panamanian golden frog in the wild. Chytrid fungus has spread across Australia, New Zealand, Central America and Africa, including countries with high amphibian diversity such as cloud forests in Honduras and Madagascar. \"Batrachochytrium salamandrivorans\" is a similar infection currently threatening salamanders. Amphibians are now the most endangered vertebrate group, having existed for more than 300 million years through three other mass extinctions.\n\nMillions of bats in the US have been dying off since 2012 due to a fungal infection spread from European bats, which appear to be immune. Population drops have been as great as 90% within five years, and extinction of at least one bat species is predicted. There is currently no form of treatment, and such declines have been described as \"unprecedented\" in bat evolutionary history by Alan Hicks of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.\n\nBetween 2007 and 2013, over ten million beehives were abandoned due to colony collapse disorder, which causes worker bees to abandon the queen. This disorder has been attributed to - amongst other things - neonicotinoids consumed by worker bees from the extensive use of pesticides in human farming methods.\n\nSome leading scientists have advocated for the global community to designate as protected areas 30 percent of the planet by 2030, and 50 percent by 2050, in order to mitigate the contemporary extinction crisis as the human population is projected to grow to 10 billion by the middle of the century. Human consumption of food and water resources is also projected to double by this time.\n\nIn November 2018, the UN's biodiversity chief Cristiana Pașca Palmer urged people around the world to put pressure on governments to implement significant protections for wildlife by 2020, as rampant biodiversity loss is a \"silent killer\" as dangerous as global warming, but has received little attention by comparison. She says that \"It’s different from climate change, where people feel the impact in everyday life. With biodiversity, it is not so clear but by the time you feel what is happening, it may be too late.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7436363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7436363", "title": "Il Conciliatore", "text": "Il Conciliatore\n\nIl Conciliatore was a progressive bi-weekly scientific and literary journal, influential in the early Risorgimento. The journal was published in Milan from September 1818 until October 1819 when it was closed by the Austrian censors. Its writers included Ludovico di Breme, Giuseppe Nicolini and Silvio Pellico.\n\n"}
{"id": "48838054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48838054", "title": "Kounotori 9", "text": "Kounotori 9\n\n, also known as HTV-9 will be the 9th flight of the H-II Transfer Vehicle, an unmanned cargo spacecraft set to launch in 2020 to resupply the International Space Station.\n\nAs currently manifested, Kounotori 9 will be the last HTV of the original model, with following missions replaced with the HTV-X.\n\n"}
{"id": "364369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364369", "title": "Laser Interferometer Space Antenna", "text": "Laser Interferometer Space Antenna\n\nThe Laser Interferometer Space Antenna (LISA) is a European Space Agency mission designed to detect and accurately measure gravitational waves—tiny ripples in the fabric of space-time—from astronomical sources. LISA would be the first dedicated space-based gravitational wave detector. It aims to measure gravitational waves directly by using laser interferometry. The LISA concept has a constellation of three spacecraft, arranged in an equilateral triangle with sides 2.5 million km long, flying along an Earth-like heliocentric orbit. The distance between the satellites is precisely monitored to detect a passing gravitational wave.\n\nThe LISA project started out as a joint effort between the United States space agency NASA and the European Space Agency ESA. However, in 2011, NASA announced that it would be unable to continue its LISA partnership with the European Space Agency due to funding limitations. A scaled down design initially known as the New Gravitational-wave Observatory (NGO) was proposed for ESA's Cosmic Vision L1 mission selection. In 2013, ESA selected 'The Gravitational Universe' as the theme for its L3 mission in the early 2030s. whereby it committed to launch a space based gravitational wave observatory.\n\nIn January 2017, LISA was proposed as the candidate mission. On June 20, 2017 the suggested mission received its clearance goal for the 2030s, and was approved as one of the main research missions of ESA.\n\nThe LISA mission is designed for direct observation of gravitational waves, which are distortions of space-time travelling at the speed of light. Passing gravitational waves alternately squeeze and stretch objects by a tiny amount. Gravitational waves are caused by energetic events in the universe and, unlike any other radiation, can pass unhindered by intervening mass. Launching LISA will add a new sense to scientists' perception of the universe and enable them to study phenomena that are invisible in normal light.\n\nPotential sources for signals are merging massive black holes at the centre of galaxies, massive black holes orbited by small compact objects, known as extreme mass ratio inspirals, binaries of compact stars in our Galaxy, and possibly other sources of cosmological origin, such as the very early phase of the Big Bang, and speculative astrophysical objects like cosmic strings and domain boundaries.\n\nThe LISA mission's primary objective is to detect and measure gravitational waves produced by compact binary systems and mergers of supermassive black holes. LISA will observe gravitational waves by measuring differential changes in the length of its arms, as sensed by laser interferometry. Each of the three LISA spacecraft contains two telescopes, two lasers and two test masses (each a 46 mm, roughly 2 kg, gold-coated cube of gold/platinum), arranged in two optical assemblies pointed at the other two spacecraft. This forms Michelson-like interferometers, each centred on one of the spacecraft, with the test masses defining the ends of the arms. The entire arrangement, which is ten times larger than the orbit of the Moon, will be placed in solar orbit at the same distance from the Sun as the Earth, but trailing the Earth by 20 degrees, and with the orbital planes of the three spacecraft inclined relative to the ecliptic by about 0.33 degree, which results in the plane of the triangular spacecraft formation being tilted 60 degrees from the plane of the ecliptic. The mean linear distance between the formation and the Earth will be 50 million kilometres.\n\nTo eliminate non-gravitational forces such as light pressure and solar wind on the test masses, each spacecraft is constructed as a zero-drag satellite, and effectively floats around the masses, using capacitive sensing to determine their position relative to the spacecraft, and very precise thrusters to keep itself centered around them.\n\nThe longer the arms, the more sensitive the detector is to long-period gravitational waves, but its sensitivity to wavelengths shorter than the arms (2.5 million km corresponds to 2.5e9/299792458 round 1 seconds or 299792458/2.5e9 round 3 Hz) is reduced. As the satellites are free-flying, the spacing is easily adjusted before launch, with upper bounds being imposed by the sizes of the telescopes required at each end of the interferometer (which are constrained by the size of the launch vehicle's payload fairing) and the stability of the constellation orbit (larger constellations are more sensitive to the gravitational effects of other planets, limiting the mission lifetime). Another length-dependent factor which must be compensated for is the \"point-ahead angle\" between the incoming and outgoing laser beams; the telescope must receive its incoming beam from where its partner was a few seconds ago, but send its outgoing beam to where its partner will be a few seconds from now.\n\nThe original 2008 LISA proposal had arms 5 million km (5 Gm) long. When downscoped to eLISA in 2013, arms of 1 million km were proposed. The approved 2017 LISA proposal has arms 2.5 million km (2.5 Gm) long.\n\nLike most modern gravitational wave observatories, LISA is based on laser interferometry technique. Its three satellites form a giant Michelson interferometer in which two \"slave\" satellites play the role of reflectors and one \"master\" satellite the one of source and observer. While a gravitational wave is passing through the interferometer, lengths of the two eLISA arms are varying due to space-time distortions resulting from the wave. Practically, it measures a relative phase shift between one local laser and one distant laser by light interference. Comparison between the observed laser beam frequency (in return beam) and the local laser beam frequency (sent beam) encodes the wave parameters.\n\nUnlike terrestrial GW observatories, LISA cannot keep its arms \"locked\" in position at a fixed length. Instead, the distances between satellites varies significantly over each year's orbit, and the detector must keep track of the constantly changing distance, counting the millions of wavelengths by which the distance changes each second. Then, the signals are separated in the frequency domain: changes with periods of less than a day are signals of interest, while changes with periods of a month or more are irrelevant.\n\nThis difference means that LISA cannot use high-finesse Fabry–Pérot resonant arm cavities and signal recycling systems like terrestrial detectors, limiting its length-measurement accuracy. But with arms almost a million times longer, the motions to be detected are correspondingly larger.\n\nAn ESA test mission called LISA Pathfinder (LPF) was launched in 2015 to test the technology necessary to put a test mass in (almost) perfect free fall conditions. LPF consists of a single spacecraft with one of the LISA interferometer arms shortened to about , so that it fits inside a single spacecraft. The spacecraft reached its operational location in heliocentric orbit at the Lagrange point L1 on 22 January 2016, where it underwent payload commissioning. Scientific research started on March 8, 2016. The goal of LPF was to demonstrate a noise level 10 times worse than needed for LISA. However, LPF exceeded this goal by a large margin approaching the LISA requirement noise levels.\n\nGravitational-wave astronomy seeks to use direct measurements of gravitational waves to study astrophysical systems and to test Einstein's theory of gravity. Indirect evidence of gravitational waves was derived from observations of the decreasing orbital periods of several binary pulsars, such as the Hulse–Taylor binary pulsar. In February 2016, the Advanced LIGO project announced that it had directly detected gravitational waves from a black hole merger.\nObserving gravitational waves requires two things: a strong source of gravitational waves—such as the merger of two black holes—and extremely high detection sensitivity. A LISA-like instrument should be able to measure relative displacements with a resolution of 20 picometres—less than the diameter of a helium atom—over a distance of a million kilometres, yielding a strain sensitivity of better than 1 part in 10 in the low-frequency band about a millihertz.\n\nA LISA-like detector is sensitive to the low-frequency band of the gravitational-wave spectrum, which contains many astrophysically interesting sources. Such a detector would observe signals from binary stars within our galaxy (the Milky Way); signals from binary supermassive black holes in other galaxies; and extreme-mass-ratio inspirals and bursts produced by a stellar-mass compact object orbiting a supermassive black hole. There are also more speculative signals such as signals from cosmic strings and primordial gravitational waves generated during cosmological inflation.\n\nLISA will be able to detect the nearly monochromatic gravitational waves emanating of close binaries consisting of two compact stellar objects (white dwarfs, neutron stars, and black holes) in the Milky Way. At low frequencies these are actually expected to be so numerous that they form a source of (foreground) noise for LISA data analysis. At higher frequencies LISA is expected to detect and resolve around 25,000 galactic compact binaries. Studying the distribution of the masses, periods, and locations of this population, will teach us about the formation and evolution of binary systems in the galaxy. Furthermore, LISA will be able to resolve 10 binaries currently known from electromagnetic observations (and find ≈500 more with electromagnetic counterparts). Joint study of these systems will allow inference on other dissipation mechanisms in these systems, e.g. through tidal interactions.\n\nLISA will be able to detect the gravitational waves from the merger of a pair of (super)massive black holes with a chirp mass between 10 and 10 solar masses all the way back to their earliest formation at redshift around \"z\" ≈ 15. The most conservative population models expect at least a few such events to happen each year. For mergers closer by (\"z<3\"), it will be able to determine the spins of the components, which carry information about the past evolution of the components (e.g. whether they have grown primarily through accretion or mergers). For mergers around the peak of star formation (\"z\" ≈ 2) LISA will be able to locate mergers within 100 square degrees on the night sky at least 24 hours before the actual merger, allowing electromagnetic telescopes to search for counterparts, with the potential of witnessing the formation of a quasar after a merger.\n\nExtreme mass ratio inspirals (EMRIs) consist of a stellar compact object (<60 solar masses) on a slowly decaying orbit around a massive black hole of around \"10\" solar masses. For the ideal case of a prograde orbit around a (nearly) maximally spinning black hole, LISA will be able to detect these events up to \"z=4\". EMRIs are interesting because they are slowly evolving, spending around 10 orbits and between a few months and a few years in the LISA sensitivity band before merging. This allows very accurate (up to an error of 1 in 10) measurements of the properties of the system, including the mass and spin of the central object and the mass and orbital elements (eccentricity and inclination) of the smaller object. EMRIs are expected to occur regularly in the centers of most galaxies and in dense star clusters. Conservative population estimates predict at least one detectable event per year for LISA.\n\nLISA will also be able to detect the gravitational waves emanating from black hole binary mergers where the lighter black hole is in the intermediate black hole range (between \"10\" and \"10\" solar masses). In the case of both components being intermediate black holes between \"600\" and \"10\" solar masses, LISA will be able to detect events up to reshifts around 1. In the case of an intermediate mass black hole spiralling into a massive black hole (between \"10\" and \"10\" solar masses) events will be detectable up to at least \"z = 3\". Since little is known about the population of intermediate mass black holes, there is no good estimate of the event rates for these events.\n\nFollowing the announcement of the first gravitational wave detection, GW150914, it was realized that a similar event would be detectable by LISA well before the merger. Based on the LIGO estimated event rates, it is expected that LISA will detect and resolve about 100 binaries that would merge a few weeks to months later in the LIGO detection band. LISA will be able to accurately predict the time of merger ahead of time and locate the event with 1 square degree on the sky. This will greatly aid the possibilities for searches for electromagnetic counterpart events.\n\nGravitational wave signals from black holes could provide hints at a quantum theory of gravity.\n\nLISA will be able to independently measure the redshift and distance of events occurring relatively close by (\"z<0.1\") through the detection of massive black hole mergers and EMRIs. Consequently, it can make an independent measurement of the Hubble parameter \"H\" that does not depend on the use of the cosmic distance ladder. The accuracy of such a determination is limited by the sample size and therefore the mission duration. With a mission lifetime of 4 years one expects to be able to determine \"H\" with an absolute error of 0.01 km/s/Mpc. At larger ranges LISA events can (stochastically) be linked to electromagnetic counterparts, to further constrain the expansion curve of the universe.\n\nFinally, LISA will be sensitive to the stochastic gravitational wave background generated in the early universe through various channels, including inflation, first order phase transitions related to spontaneous symmetry breaking, and cosmic strings.\n\nLISA will also search for currently unknown (and unmodelled) sources of gravitational waves. The history of astrophysics has shown that whenever a new frequency range/medium of detection is available new unexpected sources show up. This could for example include kinks and cusps in cosmic strings.\n\nPrevious searches for gravitational waves in space were conducted for short periods by planetary missions that had other primary science objectives (such as Cassini–Huygens), using microwave Doppler tracking to monitor fluctuations in the Earth-spacecraft distance. By contrast, LISA is a dedicated mission that will use laser interferometry to achieve a much higher sensitivity.\nOther gravitational wave antennas, such as LIGO, VIRGO, and GEO 600, are already in operation on Earth, but their sensitivity at low frequencies is limited by the largest practical arm lengths, by seismic noise, and by interference from nearby moving masses. Thus, LISA and ground detectors are complementary rather than competitive, much like astronomical observatories in different electromagnetic bands (e.g., ultraviolet and infrared).\n\nThe first design studies for gravitational wave detector to be flown in space were performed in the 1980s under the name LAGOS (Laser Antena for Gravitational radiation Observation in Space). LISA was first proposed as a mission to ESA in the early 1990s. First as a candidate for the M3-cycle, and later as 'cornerstone mission' for the 'Horizon 2000 plus' program. As the decade progressed, the design was refined to a triangular configuration of three spacecraft with three 5-million kilometre arms. This mission was pitched as a joint mission between ESA and NASA in 1997.\n\nIn the 2000s the joint ESA/NASA LISA mission was identified as a candidate for the 'L1' slot in ESA's Cosmic Vision 2015-2025 programme. However, due to budget cuts, NASA announced in early 2011 that it would not be contributing to any of ESA's L-class missions. ESA nonetheless decided to push the program forward, and instructed the L1 candidate missions to present reduced cost versions that could be flown within ESA's budget. A reduced version of LISA was designed with only two 1-million kilometre arms under the name NGO (New/Next Gravitational wave Observatory). Despite NGO being ranked highest in terms of scientific potential, ESA decided to fly Jupiter Icy Moon Explorer (JUICE) as its L1 mission. One of the main concerns was that the LISA Pathfinder mission had been experiencing technical delays, making it uncertain if the technology would be ready for the projected L1 launch date.\n\nSoon afterwards, ESA announced it would be selecting themes for its Large class L2 and L3 mission slots. A theme called \"the Gravitational Universe\" was formulated with the reduced NGO rechristened eLISA as a straw-man mission. In November 2013, ESA announced that it selected \"the Gravitational Universe\" for its L3 mission slot (expected launch in 2034). Following the successful detection of gravitational waves by the LIGO, ground-based detectors in September 2015, NASA expressed interest in rejoining the mission as a junior partner. In response to an ESA call for mission proposals for the `Gravitational Universe' themed L3 mission, a mission proposal for a detector with three 2.5 million km arms again called LISA was submitted in January 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56392925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56392925", "title": "Last Men in Aleppo", "text": "Last Men in Aleppo\n\nLast Men in Aleppo (in Arabic آخر الرجال في حلب) is a 2017 documentary film about the Syrian Civil War. Written and directed by Feras Fayyad, produced by Kareem Abeed and Søren Steen Jespersen, it documents the life in Aleppo during the war and particularly sheds light on the search-and-rescue missions of the internationally recognized White Helmets, an organization consisting of ordinary citizens who are the first to rush towards military strikes and attacks in the hope of saving lives. The documentary highlights the lives of three White Helmets founders, Khaled Omar Harrah, Subhi Alhussen and Mahmoud as they grapple the dilemma to flee their country or stay and fight for it.\n\nThe film won the World Documentary Grand Jury Prize at the 2017 Sundance Film Festival in 2017 and was nominated for Best Documentary Feature at the 90th Academy Awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17451546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17451546", "title": "Latin America, the Caribbean and the European Union Summit", "text": "Latin America, the Caribbean and the European Union Summit\n\nThe European Union, Latin America and the Caribbean Summit (EU-LAC) is a biennial meeting of heads of state and government of Latin America, the Caribbean and the European Union. In the first EU-LAC summit, held in Rio de Janeiro between 28 June and 29 June 1999, participant nations agreed to develop a strategic partnership focused on strengthening democracy, the rule of law, international peace and political stability.\nThe second meeting was carried out in Madrid in 2002, the third in Guadalajara in 2004, the fourth in Vienna in 2006 and the fifth was held in Lima in mid-May 2008. Major topics discussed at the Lima summit were free trade, food prices, which leaders were \"deeply concerned by\" and poverty, and sustainable development. The results of the event were rather disappointing, as very little was achieved. The next round of talks took place in Brussels on June 2008. The sixth summit was held in Madrid in 2010. At this Summit, the Heads of State of the Latin America, Caribbean and European Union countries decided to create the EU-LAC Foundation as a tool to strengthen the biregional partnership.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13385019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13385019", "title": "Lille Comics Festival", "text": "Lille Comics Festival\n\nSince 2006, the Lille Comics Festival is the main British and American comic books convention in the north of France, held in November, on the first week end. It occurs in Lille, capital of French Flanders. It is also a gathering of the community of fans, back-issues dealers (drawn from French and Belgian areas) and notable comics creators (signing and drawing sessions). In 2007, for the first time, the Prix Seth Fisher (Seth Fisher Award, named after the artist Seth Fisher) was given to Alan Davis for his achievement in comic books. Attractions include action figures retailers, artwork selling, gaming and drawing lessons for children.\n\n"}
{"id": "35866845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35866845", "title": "List of AFL Grand Final pre-match performances", "text": "List of AFL Grand Final pre-match performances\n\nThe AFL Grand Final is held annually at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on or near the last Saturday afternoon in September. Each year, pre-match entertainment is provided by star musicians of the day.\n\n"}
{"id": "36697260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36697260", "title": "Local area emergency", "text": "Local area emergency\n\nLocal area emergency (SAME code: LAE) is an advisory issued by local authorities through the Emergency Alert System (EAS) in the United States to notify the public of an event that does not pose a significant threat to public safety and/or property by itself, but could escalate, contribute to other more serious events, or disrupt critical public safety services. Instructions, other than public protective actions, may be provided. Examples include: a disruption in water, electric or natural gas service, road closures due to excessive snowfall, or a potential terrorist threat where the public is asked to remain alert.\n\n"}
{"id": "8213640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8213640", "title": "Martin Guerre (musical)", "text": "Martin Guerre (musical)\n\nMartin Guerre is a two-act musical with a book by Claude-Michel Schönberg and Alain Boublil, lyrics by Alain Boublil, Edward Hardy and Stephen Clark, and music by Claude-Michel Schönberg.\n\nWritten in the operatic style similar to the creative team's previous efforts, \"Les Misérables\" and \"Miss Saigon\", the bulk of the show is sung-through, with little spoken dialogue between the musical numbers. It failed to match the box office success of its two predecessors.\n\nLoosely based on the real-life historical figure Martin Guerre and the 1982 film \"The Return of Martin Guerre\" he inspired, the story is set in early modern France in the anti-Protestant town of Artigat, where young Martin Guerre is forced into an arranged marriage with Bertrande de Rols in order to produce a Catholic heir. Martin is unsatisfied with the marriage, complicated by the fact that a childhood friend, Guillaume, is secretly in love with Bertrande. Beaten by the priests due to his failure to consummate the union, Martin abandons his home and Bertrande to fight the Protestant Huguenots, and it is during the skirmishes that he befriends Arnaud du Thil with whom he shares his history, beginning the story at this point, seven years later, \"in medias res\". When Martin appears to die in battle, Arnaud goes to his village to inform Bertrande of her husband's death but, mistaken for the deceased soldier by the residents, he decides to play along with their error and becomes involved with Bertrande. Aware of Arnaud's deception, Bertrande decides to keep his secret and the two discover a mutual romantic attraction while Arnaud takes the name \"Martin Guerre\" for himself. Guillaume, who had until now hoped for a chance with Bertrande romantically, becomes envious of the supposedly returned soldier. As Bertrande, secretly converted to Protestantism, also turns Arnaud to her faith, Guillaume uncovers their beliefs and so they are assaulted by a roused mob. Before Arnaud is killed, however, Benoit, the knowing village idiot, reveals that he is not truly Martin Guerre, but rather, an imposter. The authorities arrest Arnaud—still claiming that he is Martin—under charges of deception and at the end of the trial, Martin Guerre himself, having apparently survived the war, appears as the last witness. In prison, Arnaud, however, is freed by Martin who forgives him for stealing his identity, noting the legitimacy of Arnaud and Bertrande's love for each other. The mob, though, sets the town ablaze and Guillaume stabs Arnaud before he can escape. As Arnaud dies in Bertrande's arms, Martin and Bertrande sing mournfully about love and the two part for good. The town contemplates their own xenophobic actions remorsefully.\n\nWhen first approached by Schönberg and Boublil, Cameron Mackintosh, who had produced their earlier works, expressed little interest in producing the project as it existed. Only after several dramatic revisions, in which the character of Guerre became more heroic and greater emphasis was placed on the theme of religious intolerance, did he become enthusiastic about its potential.\n\nSix years in the making, Mackintosh's $6 million West End production, directed by Declan Donnellan and choreographed by Bob Avian, with lyrics by Edward Hardy, opened on July 10, 1996 at the Prince Edward Theatre. It was a spectacular production, but not only were the reviews mixed, there were also some major concerns expressed by the public and the creative team alike. In the early weeks, the creative team worked hard and quickly to clarify the narrative, rearrange some of the material, and remove one pretty, but nonessential song.\n\nThe mostly brutal reviews prompted the producer to examine carefully all the problems and take dramatic action to fix them. While the cast continued to perform the show, the creative team – now augmented by additional lyricist Clark – virtually rewrote it, adding new scenes and songs, shortening the overly long beginning, providing a happier ending, and shifting the focus to Bertrande. In order to make more radical changes, the show closed from October 28–31, 1996, and the production was completely revised. This revised version opened after a week of previews on November 11, 1996. The critical response was significantly improved, and the revised show went on to win the 1997 Laurence Olivier Award for Best Musical and Best Choreography.\n\nIn June 1997 some further changes were made to the production to coincide with the cast change. The production closed on February 28, 1998 after 675 performances.\n\nThe West Yorkshire Playhouse in Leeds was the new home for a completely rewritten version of \"Martin Guerre\". The Artistic Director Jude Kelly invited the writers Alain Boublil and Claude-Michel Schonberg to rework their musical there, and in a co-production between the West Yorkshire Playhouse and Cameron Mackintosh, \"Martin Guerre\" opened on December 8, 1998. The libretto was rewritten extensively, a number of new songs were added, and many of the original tunes were retitled, repositioned, and/or were given new lyrics. The physical production was trimmed considerably to make it more intimate and less blockbuster. In addition, the logo was changed from the original red to a black background.\n\nIt then embarked on a national tour which ended in Bristol on August 7, 1999 after 227 performances. The tour also played Newcastle, Glasgow, Aberdeen, Norwich, Edinburgh, Manchester, Birmingham, Llandudno, Nottingham and Plymouth.\n\nThe North American premiere was at the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis on September 29, 1999, for an 8-week engagement. The Artistic Director Joe Dowling welcomed the opportunity for a co-production between the Guthrie Theater and Cameron Mackintosh so that Martin Guerre could be fine-tuned for its first American audience.\n\nThere was some more reworking for this production. Some musical numbers were moved and there was a general softening of the village characters to make them more likable and more individualized. According to Mackintosh \"Forty percent of the current material was not in the original.\" The production starred Hugh Panaro, Erin Dilly and Stephen R. Buntrock in the US tour in 1999–2000. The tour played Minneapolis, Detroit, Washington, Seattle and Los Angeles.\n\nA planned Broadway opening never materialized.\n\nA licensed production of \"Martin Guerre\" opened at the Odense Theater in Denmark on December 30, 1999 and it ran until March 6, 2000.\n\nA revival of the musical at the Watermill Theatre near Newbury, England, ran in July 2007. There was a company of 12 actor/musicians, starring Andrew Bevis and directed by Craig Revel Horwood. Based largely on the London version that had premiered in November 1996, there were further lyrical changes, and \"Live With Somebody You Love\" from the touring version was inserted into the score. This production made one central change to the premise of the previous versions of the musical; Bertrande does not (appear to) know that the imposter is not her returning husband until the court scene in act 2. The character of Martin was made far more hostile in this version. This production also had more spoken dialogue, a conscious decision made by the composers, who reworked the show whilst they were in rehearsals for \"The Pirate Queen\".\n\n\nψ - Songs included on the UK Tour Cast Album\n\nFor the US tour, the positioning of the songs \"Live with Somebody You Love\" and \"Without You as a Friend\" were swapped, and \"The Day Has Come\" had re-written lyrics and was titled \"Alone\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6151044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6151044", "title": "Melon heads", "text": "Melon heads\n\nIn the American folklore of Michigan, Ohio, and Connecticut, Melon Heads are beings generally described as small humanoids with bulbous heads who occasionally emerge from hiding places to attack people. Different variations of the legend attribute different origins to the entities. \n\nThe melon heads of Michigan are said to reside around Felt Mansion, although they have also been reportedly seen in southern forested areas of Ottawa County. According to one story, they were originally children with hydrocephalus who lived at the Junction Insane Asylum near Felt Mansion. The story explains that, after enduring physical and emotional abuse, they became feral and were released into the forests surrounding the asylum. The Allegan County Historical Society asserts that the asylum never existed, although it was at one point a prison; however, the story has been part of the local folklore for several decades. Laketown Township Manager Al Meshkin told the \"Holland Sentinel\" that he had heard the tales as a teenager, noting that his friends referred to the beings as \"wobbleheads\". Some versions of the legend say that the children once lived in the mansion itself but later retreated to a system of underground caverns (or caves in a nearby hill left over from an abandoned zoo). Some versions of this legend say that the children devised a plan to escape and kill the doctor that abused them. It is said that the children had no place to hide the body, so they cut it up in small pieces which they hid around the mansion. Rumors exist that teenagers who had broken into the mansion saw ghosts of the children and claimed to see shadows of the doctor's murder through the light coming from an open door. The legend has spread throughout the region, even becoming the subject of a 2011 film simply titled \"The Melonheads,\" which is based around the West Michigan legend.\n\nThe melon head stories of Ohio are primarily associated with the Cleveland suburb of Kirtland. According to local lore, the melon heads were originally orphans under the watch of a mysterious figure known as Dr. Crow (sometimes spelled Crowe, Krohe or Kroh or known as Dr. Melonhead). Crow is said to have performed unusual experiments on the children, who developed large, hairless heads and malformed bodies. Some accounts claim that the children were already suffering from hydrocephalus and that Crow injected even more fluid into their brains.\n\nEventually, the legend continues, the children killed Crow, burned the orphanage, and retreated to the surrounding forests and supposedly feed on babies. Legend holds that the melon heads may be sighted along Wisner Road in Kirtland, and Chardon Township. The melon head legend has been popularized on the Internet, particularly on the websites Creepy Cleveland and DeadOhio, where users offer their own versions of the story. A movie, \"Legend of the Melonheads\", released in 2010, is based on the Ohio legend and various other legends in the Kirtland area.\n\nSeveral variations of the Melon Head legend can be found throughout Southwest Connecticut, especially in central & eastern Fairfield County and western New Haven County, Connecticut. In eastern Fairfield County, many tales can be found in communities such as Trumbull, Shelton, Stratford, Monroe, Easton and Weston. In western and central New Haven County tales can be found in towns like Seymour, Oxford, Milford, and Southbury.\n\nThere are several primary Connecticut variations. According to one variation of the myth, Fairfield County was the location of an asylum for the criminally insane that burned down in the fall of 1960, resulting in the death of all of the staff and most of the patients with 10-20 inmates unaccounted for, supposedly having survived and escaped to the woods.The legend states that the melon heads' appearance is the result of them having resorted to cannibalism in order to survive the harsh winters of the region and to inbreeding, which in turn caused them to develop hydrocephalus. Some retellings of this version substitute the asylum or prison with places of business or camp grounds and the inmates/patients with employees, staff or camp-goers. Individual variations will modify what town these individuals were originally from and where they end up.\n\nAccording to the second variation, the melon heads are descendants of a Colonial-era family from Shelton-Trumbull who were banished after accusations of witchcraft were made against them causing them to retreat to the woods. As with the first version of this legend, this variation attributes the appearance of the melon heads to inbreeding. Melon Heads allegedly prey upon humans who wander into their territory. Like the first version, individual retellings will modify what town the family was originally from and where they end up.\n\nA number of Connecticut-based legends of the melon heads have one characteristics in common: the inclusion of a secluded, rustic or single-lane (usually) dirt road running through the melon heads' wooded territory. Many towns in Fairfield County and New Haven County have rural and forested sections, and it is not uncommon for these forests to have rural roads running through them. These roads at times are associated with the local variation of the Melon Head legend and are said to be part of the Melon Heads' territory.\n\nIn a number of towns such as Shelton, Trumbull and Monroe, several legends place the melon heads' territory around a mysterious and mythical street commonly referred to as Dracula Drive. None of the towns that have a melon head legend have roads designated as Dracula Drive. Depending on what version of the legend is told, one of several existing streets are mistakenly referred to or coincidentally coincide with the Dracula Drive mentioned in the melon head stories. For instance, some legends place the melon heads' territory in and around Velvet Street, which runs through a wooded area of Trumbull and Monroe, near the Easton border. Other legends mistake Saw Mill City Road in Shelton as Dracula Drive. Some roads mistakenly referred to as Dracula Drive include:\n\n\nOver time, characteristics of the legend evolve and parts of various versions of the legend affect other parts/versions of the legend. For example, some legends claim the melon heads would bite or consume whoever entered their territory. Also, the Melon Heads' territory commonly involves a secluded, rustic or dirt road running through it. This is one instance where elements of the legend interact over time and why some actual streets are mistakenly referred to as Dracula Drive by some locals.\n\nIn Connecticut, some of the inspiration for a number of versions of the Melon Heads' legends may be attributed to the local surroundings and landmarks. Central Fairfield County is home to the now defunct Fairfield Hills State Mental Hospital as well as the Garner Correctional Institution, both located in Newtown, as well as the Federal Correctional Institution located in nearby Danbury. Also this area of Fairfield County has been historically a rural area filled with farms and forests. The proximity of several criminal and psychiatric institutions as well as there juxtaposition to rural areas of the county may have contributed elements to the legend of the Melon Heads.\n\nWhile the legend of the Melon Heads is more widely told throughout Southwest Connecticut, one of several other similar legends of deformed or mutated humans can be found in various locations of Fairfield and New Haven County. These legends have been told in overlapping communities were some individuals would tell versions of one legend alongside other individuals who would tell versions of another legend. Over time this overlapping of oral tradition may have allowed the cross-contribution of elements to each other. Some similar legends include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17517120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17517120", "title": "Miss USA 1952", "text": "Miss USA 1952\n\nMiss USA 1952, the 1st Miss USA pageant, was held on 27 June 1952 at Long Beach Municipal Auditorium, Long Beach, California. 42 states competed for the inaugural Miss USA. The winner was Jackie Loughery of New York. Loughery was Top 10 at Miss Universe 1952. She became an actress and appeared in a number of films and television programs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30660499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30660499", "title": "Refusing to assist a constable", "text": "Refusing to assist a constable\n\nRefusing to assist a constable is an offence under the common law of England and Wales. The offence is committed if a person refuses, without lawful excuse, to assist a constable who sees a breach of the peace committed or who is assaulted or obstructed when making an arrest, and who, where there is reasonable necessity to do so, calls upon that person to assist him. As a common law offence, it is punishable with an unlimited fine and imprisonment, although it is very rarely prosecuted.\n\n"}
{"id": "30456461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30456461", "title": "Santa Cruz massacre", "text": "Santa Cruz massacre\n\nThe Santa Cruz massacre (also known as the Dili massacre) was the shooting of at least 250 East Timorese pro-independence demonstrators in the Santa Cruz cemetery in the capital, Dili, on 12 November 1991, during the Indonesian occupation of East Timor and is part of the East Timorese genocide.\n\nIn October 1991 a delegation to East Timor consisting of members from the Portuguese Parliament and twelve journalists was planned during a visit from UN Special Rapporteur for Human Rights on Torture, Pieter Kooijmans. The Indonesian Government objected to the inclusion in the delegation of Jill Jolliffe, an Australian journalist who it regarded as supportive of the Fretilin independence movement, and Portugal subsequently cancelled the delegation. The cancellation demoralised independence activists in East Timor, who had hoped to use the visit to raise the international profile of their cause. Tension between Indonesian authorities and East Timorese youths rose in the days after Portugal's cancellation. On 28 October, Indonesian troops had located a group of resistance members in Dili's Motael Church. A confrontation ensued between pro-integration activists and those in the church; when it was over, one man on each side was dead. Sebastião Gomes, a supporter of independence for East Timor, was taken out of the church and shot by Indonesian troops, and integration activist Afonso Henriques was stabbed and killed during the fight.\n\nForeigners who had come to East Timor to observe the Portuguese delegation included independent US journalists Amy Goodman and Allan Nairn, and British cameraman Max Stahl. They attended a memorial service for Gomes on 12 November, during which several thousand men, women, and children walked from the Motael Church to the nearby Santa Cruz cemetery. Along the way, members of the group pulled out banners and East Timorese flags. Organizers of the protest maintained order during the protest; although it was loud, the crowd was peaceful and orderly, by most accounts. It was the largest and most visible demonstration against the Indonesian occupation since 1975.\n\nDuring a brief confrontation between Indonesian troops and protesters, some protesters and a major, Geerhan Lantara were stabbed. Stahl claimed Lantara had attacked a group of protesters including a girl carrying the flag of East Timor, and FRETILIN activist Constâncio Pinto reported witness accounts of beatings from Indonesian soldiers and police. When the procession entered the cemetery some continued their protests before the cemetery wall. Around 200 more Indonesian soldiers arrived and advanced on the gathering, weapons drawn. In the graveyard, they opened fire on hundreds of unarmed civilians. At least 250 East Timorese were killed in the massacre. One of the dead was a New Zealander, Kamal Bamadhaj, a political science student and human rights activist based in Australia. The massacre was witnessed by the two American journalists—Amy Goodman and Allan Nairn—and caught on videotape by Max Stahl, who was filming undercover for Yorkshire Television. As Stahl filmed the massacre, Goodman and Nairn tried to \"serve as a shield for the Timorese\" by standing between them and the Indonesian soldiers. The soldiers began beating Goodman, and when Nairn moved to protect her, they beat him with their weapons, fracturing his skull. The camera crew managed to smuggle the video footage to Australia. They gave it to Saskia Kouwenberg, a Dutch journalist, to prevent it being seized and confiscated by Australian authorities, who subjected the camera crew to a strip-search when they arrived in Darwin, having been tipped off by Indonesia. The video footage was used in the \"First Tuesday\" documentary \"In Cold Blood: The Massacre of East Timor\", shown on ITV in the UK in January 1992, as well as numerous other, more recent documentaries. Stahl's footage, combined with the testimony of Nairn and Goodman and others, caused outrage around the world. The program \"In Cold Blood: The Massacre of East Timor\" was the overall winner at the inaugural Amnesty International UK Media Awards in 1992.\n\nIndonesian authorities described the incident as a spontaneous reaction to violence from the protesters or a \"misunderstanding\". Objectors cited two factors: the documented history of mass violence committed by Indonesian troops in places such as Quelicai, Lacluta, and Kraras, and a series of statements from politicians and officers in Indonesia, justifying the military's violence. Try Sutrisno, Commander-in-Chief of the Indonesian forces, said two days after the massacre: \"The army cannot be underestimated. Finally we had to shoot them. Delinquents like these agitators must be shot, and they will be.\"\n\nIn response to the massacre, activists around the world organised in solidarity with the East Timorese. Although a small network of individuals and groups had been working for human rights and self-determination in East Timor since the occupation began, their activity took on a new urgency after the 1991 massacre. TAPOL, a British organisation formed in 1973 to advocate for democracy in Indonesia, increased its work around East Timor. In the United States, the East Timor Action Network was founded and soon had chapters in ten cities around the country. Other solidarity groups appeared in Portugal, Australia, Japan, Germany, Malaysia, Ireland, and Brazil.\n\nThe television pictures of the massacre were shown worldwide, causing the Indonesian government considerable embarrassment. The coverage was a vivid example of how growth of new media in Indonesia was making it increasingly difficult for the \"New Order\" to control information flow in and out of Indonesia, and that in the post-Cold War 1990s, the government was coming under increasing international scrutiny. Copies of the Santa Cruz footage were distributed back into Indonesia allowing more Indonesians to see the actions of their government uncensored. A number of pro-democracy student groups and their magazines began to openly and critically discuss not just East Timor, but also the \"New Order\" and the broader history and future of Indonesia.\n\nThe US Congress voted to cut off funding for IMET training of Indonesian military personnel although arms sales continued from the US to the Indonesian National Armed Forces. President Clinton cut off all US military ties with the Indonesian military in 1999. By 2005, the US had resumed training and co-operation and by 2012 President Obama had increased military financial aid to US$ 1.56 Billion and approved the resumption of direct US military training of Indonesian special forces.\n\nThe massacre prompted the Portuguese government to increase its diplomatic campaign. Portugal unsuccessfully tried to apply pressure by raising the issue with its fellow European Union members in their dealings with Indonesia. However, other EU countries such as the UK had close economic relations with Indonesia, including arms sales, and were reluctant to jeopardise these.\n\nIn Australia, there was criticism of the federal government's recognition of Jakarta's sovereignty over East Timor. The government had been promoting increased ties with the Indonesian military at the time of the massacre, but in 1999 temporarily cut off military ties in response to the violence after that year's independence referendum. Australian foreign minister Gareth Evans, described the killings as \"an aberration, not an act of state policy\".\n\nCommemorated as a public holiday in now independent East Timor, 12 November is remembered by the East Timorese as one of the bloodiest days in their history, one which drew worldwide attention to their fight for independence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54162446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54162446", "title": "Sky burial (disambiguation)", "text": "Sky burial (disambiguation)\n\nSky burial may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41382446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41382446", "title": "South Sudanese Civil War", "text": "South Sudanese Civil War\n\nThe South Sudanese Civil War is an ongoing conflict in South Sudan between forces of the government and opposition forces. In December 2013, President Kiir accused his former deputy Riek Machar and ten others of attempting a coup d'état. Machar denied trying to start a coup and fled to lead the SPLM – in opposition (SPLM-IO). Fighting broke out between the Sudan People's Liberation Movement (SPLM) and SPLM-IO, igniting the civil war. Ugandan troops were deployed to fight alongside the South Sudanese government. The United Nations has peacekeepers in the country as part of the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS). In January 2014 the first ceasefire agreement was reached. Fighting continued and would be followed by several more ceasefire agreements. Negotiations were mediated by \"IGAD +\" (which includes the eight regional nations called the Intergovernmental Authority on Development as well as the African Union, United Nations, China, the EU, USA, UK and Norway). A peace agreement known as the \"Compromise Peace Agreement\" was signed in August 2015. Machar returned to Juba in 2016 and was appointed vice president. Following a second breakout of fighting within Juba, the SPLM-IO fled to the surrounding and previously peaceful Equatoria region. Machar was replaced by Kiir as First Vice President by Taban Deng Gai, splitting the opposition, and rebel in-fighting has become of major part of the conflict. Rivalry among Dinka factions led by the President and Malong Awan have also led to fighting. In August 2018, another power sharing agreement came into effect.\n\nAbout 400,000 people are estimated to have been killed in the war, including notable atrocities such as the 2014 Bentiu massacre. Although both men have supporters from across South Sudan's ethnic divides, subsequent fighting has had ethnic undertones. Kiir's Dinka ethnic group has been accused of attacking other ethnic groups and Machar's Nuer ethnic group has been accused of attacking the Dinka. More than 4 million people have been displaced, with about 1.8 million of those internally displaced, and about 2.5 million having fled to neighboring countries, especially Uganda and Sudan. Fighting in the agricultural heart in the south of the country has soared the number of people facing starvation to 6 million with famine breaking out in some areas. The country’s economy has also been devastated. According to the IMF, real income has halved since 2013 and inflation is more than 300% per annum.\n\nIn 2010, after a disputed election, George Athor led the South Sudan Democratic Movement in rebellion against the government. The same year, a faction of the South Sudan Democratic Movement, called the Cobra Faction, led by David Yau Yau rebelled against the government they accused of being prejudiced against the Murle. His faction signed a cease-fire with the government in 2011 and his militia was reintegrated into the army but he then defected again in 2012. After the army's notorious 2010 disarmament campaign with widespread abuses of the Shilluk people, who were alleging persecution by the ruling Dinka, John Uliny from the Shilluk people began a rebellion, leading the Upper Nile faction of the South Sudan Democratic Movement. Gabriel Tang, who led a militia allied to Khartoum during the Second Sudanese Civil War, clashed regularly with the SPLA until 2011 when his soldiers were reintegrated into the national army. In 2011, Peter Gadet led a rebellion with the South Sudan Liberation Army, but was reintegrated into the army the same year. In a strategy of co-option known as \"big tent\", the government often buys off community militia and pardons its leaders. Others call the use of rebellion to receive public office as \"bad culture\" and an incentive to rebel.\n\nAfter rumors about a planned coup surfaced in Juba in late 2012, South Sudanese President Salva Kiir began reorganizing the senior leadership of his government, party, and military in an unprecedented scale. In January 2013, Kiir replaced the inspector general of the national police service with a lieutenant from the army and dismissed six deputy chiefs of staff and 29 major generals in the army. In February 2013, Kiir retired an additional 117 army generals but this was viewed as troublesome in regards to a power grab by others. Kiir had also suggested that his rivals were trying to revive the rifts that had provoked infighting in the 1990s. In July 2013, Kiir dismissed Vice President Riek Machar, one-time leader of the Nasir revolt, along with his entire cabinet. Kiir suspended the SPLM Secretary-General Pagan Amum Okech and forbade him from leaving Juba or speaking to the media. The decrees elicited fears of political unrest, with Machar claiming that Kiir's move was a step towards dictatorship and announcing that he would challenge Kiir in the 2015 presidential election. He said that if the country is to be united, it cannot tolerate \"one man's rule.\" Kiir disbanded all of the top-level organs of the SPLM party, including the Political Bureau, the National Convention and the National Liberation Council in November 2013. He cited their failed performance and the expiration of their term limits.\n\nIn 2010, Dennis Blair, then United States Director of National Intelligence, issued a warning that \"over the next five years...a new mass killing or genocide is most likely to occur in southern Sudan.\" In 2011, there was fighting between the Murle and the Lou Nuer, mostly over raiding cattle and abducting children to raise as their own. The Nuer White Army released a statement stating its intention to \"wipe out the entire Murle tribe on the face of the earth as the only solution to guarantee long-term security of Nuer's cattle\". Notably, in the Pibor massacre, an estimated 900 to 3000 people were killed in Pibor. Although Machar and Kiir are both members of the SPLM, they stem from different tribes with a history of conflict. Kiir is an ethnic Dinka, while Machar is an ethnic Nuer.\n\nIt began on the evening of Sunday, 15 December 2013, at the meeting of the National Liberation Council at Nyakuron, when opposition leaders Dr. Riek Machar, Pagan Amum and Rebecca Nyandeng voted to boycott the meeting.\n\nThe South Sudanese \"Sudan Tribune\" reported clashes breaking out in the Munuki neighbourhood late on 14 December in South Sudan's capital, Juba, between members of the presidential guard. Kiir also claimed that the fighting began when unidentified uniformed personnel started shooting at a meeting of the SPLM. Former Minister of Higher Education Peter Adwok said that on the evening 15 December after the meeting of the National Liberation Council had failed, Kiir told Major General Marial Ciennoung to disarm his soldiers of the \"Tiger Battalion,\" which he did. Adwok then controversially claims that the officer in charge of the weapons stores, opened them and rearmed only the Dinka soldiers. A Nuer soldier passing by questioned this and a fistfight then ensued between the two and attracted the attention of the \"commander and his deputy to the scene.\" Unable to calm the situation, more soldiers got involved and raided the stores. It culminated in the Nuer soldiers taking control of the military headquarters. The next morning, he says that Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA) reinforcements arrived and dislodged the mutineers. He then explained standard procedure:Military doctrine dictates that once a contingent of mutinous troops have been dislodged, appeal is made for their surrender and then disarmed. Those who remained loyal (to the president) are also disarmed to prevent bad blood. The loyal troops of Tiger, hailing mainly from Warrap and Aweil, have not been disarmed. In fact, they are the ones rampaging Juba, looting and shooting to kill any Nuer in the residential neighbourhoods.\"\n\nAdwok was then placed on a list of wanted politicians, to which he said \"this may be my last contribution, because, as I said, I'm waiting for the police in order to join my colleagues in detention.\" On Christmas Day, five days after his controversial publication, Adwok was arrested and held for two days. He was later detained at the Juba airport when attempting to leave the country. His passport was also confiscated.\n\nThe military headquarters near Juba University was then attacked with fighting continuing throughout the night. The next day heavy gunfire and mortar fire were reported, and UNMISS announced that hundreds of civilians sought refuge inside its facilities Aguer said that some military installations had been attacked but that \"the army is in full control of Juba,\" that the tense situation was unlikely to deteriorate, and an investigation was under way. Several people were also injured during the fighting. Juba International Airport was closed indefinitely; Kenyan airlines Fly540 and Kenya Airways indefinitely suspended flights to Juba after the airport closed. A dusk-to-dawn curfew was imposed until further notice. State-owned \"SSTV\" went off-air for several hours. When it returned to broadcasting, it aired a message by President Salva Kiir. The dissident group was said to include Sudan People's Liberation Movement (SPLM) founder John Garang's widow, Rebecca Garang.\n\nForeign Minister Barnaba Marial Benjamin claimed that those that were a part of the coup were \"disgruntled\" soldiers and politicians led by Machar and that at least ten people were confirmed to have been detained, seven were confirmed as former ministers including former Finance Minister Kosti Manibe and Pagan Amum was later reported to be held in house arrest. Other arrests included those of Kiir's critics. Information Minister Micheal Makuei Leuth claimed that Machar had left Juba with some soldiers and stolen cattle.\n\nPresident Salva Kiir spoke on national television on 16 December, having abandoned his signature suit and cowboy hat for military fatigues, and said, while surrounded by government officials, that the coup had been foiled and that it was orchestrated by a group of soldiers allied with the former vice president. On 21 December, the government announced its unconditional readiness to hold peace talks with any rebel group, including Machar In a Christmas message, Kiir warned of the fighting becoming a tribal conflict. Chief Whip and MP from the large state of Eastern Equatoria, Tulio Odongi Ayahu, announced his support for Kiir. The SPLM-affiliated youth group condemned the attempted overthrow of Kiir.\n\nMachar spoke for the first time since the crisis began on 18 December in which he said he was not aware of any coup attempt, but instead blamed Kiir for fabricating such allegations of a coup in order to settle political scores and target political opponents. He accused Kiir of inciting ethnic tensions to achieve his ends. He also said the violence was started by the presidential guard, which was founded by Kiir and told to report directly to him instead of the military. He refused to deny or acknowledge support for Gadet but that \"the rebels are acting in the right direction.\" On 22 December, Machar said he wanted to be the leader of the country and that \"his\" forces would maintain control of the country's oil fields.\n\nFormer undersecretary of culture, Jok Madut Jok, warned that the violence could \"escalate into tragic acts of ethnic cleansing\".\n\nFighting also occurred near the presidential palace and other areas of Juba. Ajak Bullen, a doctor at a military hospital, said that \"so far, we have lost seven soldiers who died while they were waiting for medical attention and a further 59 who were killed outside.\" The International Crisis Group (ICG) also reported that Machar's house had been bombarded and \"surrounded, including with tanks\", while \"parts of Juba have been reduced to rubble\". The local \"Radio Tamazuj\" suggested UNMISS were absent from the streets in Juba and that December 2013's president of the UN Security Council had announced that the peacekeepers would not intervene in the fighting. A semblance of calm returned to Juba by 18 December. The UN reported that 13,000 people were taking refuge from the fighting in its two compounds in Juba. Violence in Juba reportedly calmed, though there were unconfirmed reports of several students killed by security personnel at Juba University on 18 December. On 10 February 2014, the UN base in Juba was surrounded by armed government troops and policemen, who demanded that the UN surrender Nuer civilians sheltering there.\n\nThe UN announced that thousands of people had sought refuge within the UN's compounds. Two Indian peacekeepers were killed helping to protect 36 civilians in Akobo, Jonglei, when they were attacked by about 2,000 armed Nuer youths. The attackers were apparently intending to kill the civilians sheltering at the UN base, in a move condemned by the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.\n\nAbout 200 employees of petroleum operators, of which the three largest were China National Petroleum Corp, ONGC Videsh and Petronas, sought refuge at an UN compound in Bentiu. This followed the deaths of 16 such workers, five workers at a field in Unity State on 18 December and another 11 at the Thar Jath field the next day. Government soldiers then took control of the fields and said that production continued normally. The rebels had reportedly taken over at least some of the country's oil fields amidst fears of Sudan intervening in the country.\n\nIn the north of Unity, Pariang county is home to the Rueng Dinka —the only Dinka group in the state.\nFighting broke out in Pariang on 20 December, when some SPLA troops defected to the rebels. On 24 December, an estimated 400 defectors moved southwards from Jaw, the SPLA's northernmost operating base towards positions held by SPLA forces loyal to Koang Chuol.\nAs of 26 December, the SPLA claimed they had destroyed 37 rebel vehicles in Pariang county, which remains in the hands of the SPLA.\nFollowing calls from the government of South Sudan, Uganda deployed its troops to Juba to assist in securing the airport and evacuating Ugandan citizens. On 21 December a flight of three US Air Force V-22 Osprey aircraft en route to evacuate US nationals from Bor took small arms fire from the ground, injuring four Navy SEALs. South Sudan blamed the rebels for the incident. A second evacuation attempt by four UN and civilian helicopters succeeded in evacuating about 15 US nationals, Sudanese-Americans and those working in humanitarian operations, from the United Nations base in Bor on 22 December. Although the base was surrounded by 2,000 armed youths, a rebel commander had promised safe passage for the evacuation. In total 380 officials and private citizens as well as about 300 foreign citizens were flown to Nairobi. The United States military announced a repositioning of its forces in Africa to prepare for possible further evacuations as the United Nations warned of the planned strikes. Many of these reports have come from the hundreds of foreign oil company employees gathered at the airport to leave. Five Ugandan and ten Kenyan citizens were also evacuated from Bor and then Juba before leaving the country. The Kenyan government said that there were 30,000 of its nationals in the country and that 10,000 had applied for emergency documents.\n\nOn 22 December 2013, U.S. and Nigerian envoys were on their way to Juba to try to negotiate a solution. The U.S. envoy to the country, Donald Booth, saying that having spoken to Kiir, the latter was committed to talks with Machar without preconditions. Machar said that the rebel side was ready for talks that could possibly occur in Ethiopia. He said he wanted free and fair elections and that it is best if Kiir leaves. His conditions for talks were that his \"comrades\", including Rebecca Garang and Pagan Amum, be released from detention to be evacuated to Addis Ababa. Information minister Makuei said those involved in the coup would not be released and dismissed claim that the rebels had taken the major oil fields.\nFighting had spread to Bor by December 17, where three people had died and over 1,000 people sought refuge in the UN base. On 19 December 2013, Nuer soldiers led by Peter Gadet, the defected former 8th Division commander, claimed control of Bor, while Aguer admitted that the army lost control of Bor. Ethnically targeted violence was also reported and the Dinka feared a repeat of the Bor massacre. On December 23, Aguer said the army was on its way to Jonglei and Unity to retake territory. On 24 December, the government of South Sudan claimed to have recaptured Bor. Most of Gadet's troops had left by the end of the day. On 27 December, Machar condemned Ugandan interference, claimed Ugandan air forces bombed their positions in Bor. There was also tension at the UN compound in the city as armed fighters had entered it and about 17,000 civilians seeking protection were at the location. The UN also reported that their base was being reinforced with additional protective barriers, including the area hosting the displaced civilians. On 29 December, a U.N. helicopter spotted a group of armed youths from Bor but could not confirm their numbers. On 30 December, South Sudanese government troops clashed with ethnic White Army militiamen and other rebel factions loyal to Machar late on Monday near Bor. By the 31 December, the rebels were reaching the center of Bor and by January 2, Nhial admitted government withdrawal from the city and Kiir declared a state of emergency in Unity and Jonglei states, where rebels controlled the capitals. On 4 January intense battles involving tanks and artillery were reported on the outskirts of Bor, which by this time had changed hands three times since fighting in as many weeks.\nRebels claimed that a South Sudanese army general has been killed in the fighting, as his convoy approaching Bor was ambushed. The SPLA brought large numbers of reinforcements bringing the total SPLA troops Bor close to 2,000.\n\nOn 25 December, fighting continued in Malakal, according to Ateny, who added that the oil fields were secured and denied rebels had taken over the city. On 27 December, the army said it had taken back full control of Malakal, the administrative center of Upper Nile, a state which currently supplied all of South Sudan's crude oil, after fighting shut down oil fields in other areas. By February 2014, the UN compound in Malakal housed around 20,000 people who had fled the conflict. Rebel forces claimed to have recaptured Malakal from the army, while army forces claimed to have held the city after heavy fighting. The UNMISS reported that on 14 January heavy fighting broke out near the UN compound in Malakal. One civilian was killed and dozens of civilians were wounded in that attack. Civilians emptied out of the town, and at least 200 drowned when their overcrowded boat sank as they tried to flee across the Nile. On 15 January, fighting continued in the streets of Malakal with both sides claiming to control the town. On 18 February 2014, fighting between members of various ethnicities broke out within the UN Mission in the capital city of Upper Nile State, Malakal, resulting in ten deaths.\n\nIn Bentiu, capital of Unity State, SPLA 4th Division divided along factional lines with troops, including division commander James Koang, clashed with loyal troops, who retreated from their barracks on 20 December 2013. The next day, Koang announced allegiance to Machar and declared an ‘interim government’ of the state and state governor Nugen Monytuel fled Mayom county. The loyal soldiers retreated to the outlying Abiemnom County and were reinforced by Western Bahr el Ghazal's 5th division and the Northern Bahr el Ghazal's 3rd division to take back Bentiu. South Sudan Liberation Movement (SSLA) militia forces, led by the Bul Nuer commander Matthew Puljang, decided to support them. By 27 December, a combined force of SSLA and SPLA seized Mayom, 90 kilometers from Bentiu, on 29 December. Peter Dak, the rebel commander in Mayom, announced that he fled the town on 7 January. Around 8 January 2014, the SPLA forces advanced on Bentiu, which had been mostly evacuated, securing the city on 10 January 2014.\n\nNegotiations between both sides were mediated by \"IGAD +\" (which includes the eight regional nations as well as the African Union, United Nations, China, the EU, USA, UK and Norway). In order to ensure a stronger negotiating position, South Sudanese troops fighting alongside Ugandan troops retook every town held by the rebels, including Bor on January 18 and Malakal on January 20. Government troops were assisted by Ugandan troops, against the wishes of IGAD who feared a wider regional conflict. Uganda announced they had joined the fight in January after previously denying it, saying the troops were to only to evacuate Ugandan nationals. On 23 January 2014, representatives of the Government of South Sudan and representatives of rebel leader Riek Machar reached a ceasefire agreement in Ethiopia. The deal also stipulated that 11 officials close to rebel leader Machar should be released.\n\nOnly a few days later, the rebels accused that a government takeover of Leer was a deliberate attempt to sabotage the second round of talks that were to start later in February. The rebels threatened to boycott the second round talks, demanding the release of four remaining political prisoners and the withdrawal of Ugandan troops. Later in February, the rebels attacked the strategic government controlled Malakal and the government admitted withdrawal and then, in March, the rebels admitted withdrawal, changing hands for the fifth time. In April, rebels claimed once again to have seized Bentiu and by April 19 South Sudan's army admitted to have \"lost communication\" with commanders battling in Unity state. The 2014 Bentiu massacre occurred on 15 April in Bentiu when more than 200 civilians, all said to have been Dinkas, were massacred by Nuer rebels. A mosque, hospital, and church were targeted where civilians had sought refuge from the fighting. After the fall of Bentiu, Salva Kiir sacked Army chief James Hoth Mai and replaced him with Paul Malong Awan.\n\nIn May 2014, the government signed a peace agreement called the Greater Pibor Administrative Area peace agreement with the largely Murle group, the Cobra Faction of the South Sudan Democratic Movement, led by David Yau Yau. As part of the agreement, a semi-autonomous area called the Greater Pibor Administrative Area was created to increase the minority populations within its borders and David Yau Yau was appointed chief administrator, equivalent to state governor. In February 2015, a largely Murle group, unhappy with the agreement with the government, split off from the Cobra Faction to form the Greater Pibor Forces and declared allegiance to Machar. One of their disagreements with the government was the alleged provoking of the Murle to fight against anti-government Nuer groups in Jonglei. In April 2016, Murle fighters in South Sudan crossed over to Gambela in Ethiopia and killed more than 200 people, stole 2000 cattle and kidnapped more than 100 children from the Nuer tribe.\n\nOn 9 May 2014, President Salva Kiir and Riek Machar signed the second ceasefire in Addis Ababa, a one-page agreement recommitting to the first ceasefire. Hostilities were to end in 24 hours while a permanent ceasefire would be worked on and it promised to open humanitarian corridors and allow \"30 days of tranquility\" so farmers can sow crops and prevent famine. Hours after the ceasefire was to be in effect, both sides accused each other of violating the ceasefire. On 11 June 2014, both parties agreed to begin talks on the formation of a transitional government within 60 days and to a third ceasefire refraining from combat during this period. However, the talks collapsed as both sides boycotted the talks, and by 16 June, the ceasefire was reported to have been violated. In August 2014, Kiir and leaders of South Sudan's neighbouring states sign a roadmap leading to a transitional government of national unity. Machar refuses to sign up, accusing leaders in the IGAD, a regional group involved in the negotiations, of tilting the process in favour of Kiir. In November 2014, both parties renew the much-broken ceasefire and IGAD mediators give them 15 days to reach a power-sharing deal, threatening sanctions if they fail. This third ceasefire breaks down 24 hours later with fighting in the oil-rich north. In January 2015, rival factions sign a reunification agreement in Arusha, Tanzania, but fighting continued. In February 2015, Kiir and Machar signed a document on \"Areas of Agreement\" for a future transitional government of national unity and recommitted themselves to the ceasefire. The talks later collapsed and fighting broke out in March.\n\nJohnson Olony led a militia that planned to be integrated into the SPLM government forces, but he switched to oppose the government when the government announced plans to carve up new states which the Shilluk felt was to divide their homeland. On 16 May 2015, Olony's militia and elements of the SPLM-IO captured Upper Nile's capital, Malakal, as well as Anakdiar and areas around Kodok. His Shilluk militia group now called itself the 'Agwelek forces'. The group said they want to run their affairs independently from others in Upper Nile State, and SPLM-IO backed away from claims that it is in charge of Olony's group and stated that Olony's interests simply coincides with theirs. SPLM-IO said they understood the feeling from the Shilluk community that they wanted a level of independence and that that was the reason the SPLM-IO last year created Fashoda state for the Shilluk kingdom and appointed Tijwog Aguet, a Shilluk, as governor.\n\nOn 11 August 2015, Gabriel Tang, Gathoth Gatkuoth, the former SPLM-IO logistics chief, and rebel commander Peter Gadet, announced that they and other powerful commanders had split from Riek Machar, and rejected ongoing peace talks, announcing that they would now combat Riek Machar's forces in addition to government forces. Gathoth Gatkuoth states he wishes for a President who is neither Dinka nor Nuer and intended to register his group as a political group called the \"Federal Democractic Party\" and that their forces would be called the \"South Sudan National Army\".\n\nIn late August 2015, Salva Kiir signed a peace agreement previously signed by Riek Machar called the \"Compromise Peace Agreement\" mediated by IGAD +. The agreement would make Riek Machar the vice-president again. The agreement established the Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Commission (JMEC) responsible for monitoring and overseeing implementation of the agreement. On 20 October 2015, Uganda announced that it will voluntarily withdraw its soldiers from South Sudan, in accordance to that peace agreement. In January 2016, David Yau Yau dissolved the Cobra Faction of the South Sudan Democratic Movement and joined the SPLM. In January Gathoth Gatkuoth joined with the government but was dismissed by his Federal Democratic Party for doing so. In April 2016, as part of the peace deal, Machar returned to Juba with troops loyal to him and was sworn in as vice-president.\n\nOn Christmas Eve 2015, Salva Kiir announced he was going forward with a plan to increase the number of states from 10 to 28 and then, five days later, swore in all new governors appointed by him and considered loyal to him. The new borders give Kiir's Dinkas a majority in strategic locations. Some observers feel that the government is holding on to the peace deal to maintain international aid while backing campaigns to increase Dinka control over land and resources traditionally held by other groups. As the predominantly Shilluk Agwelek forces joined, in July 2016, with the SPLM-IO, which entered the peace agreement with the government, some Shilluk felt dissatisfied. After the establishment of the new states, a new group made up of mostly Shilluk formed the \"Tiger Faction New Forces\" (TFNF) in October 2015, led by General Yohanis Okiech. They rejected joining the SPLM-IO or the peace agreement and called for the restoration of the original 1956 borders of the Shilluk territories. When Dinka cattle herders, allegedly backed by the SPLA, occupied farmland, Azande youth rose up into militias mostly with the Arrow Boys, whose leader Alfred Karaba Futiyo Onyang declared allegiance to SPLM-IO and claimed to have occupied parts of Western Equatoria. A new rebel faction calling itself the South Sudan Federal Democratic Party (different from but related to the larger similarly named rebel faction led by Peter Gadet, Gabriel Chang and Gathoth Gatkuoth), made up mostly of Lotuko people formed during this time due to growing perceptions of mistreatment by the \"Dinka\" government and took over a SPLA outpost in Eastern Equatoria. In February 2016, Dinka SPLA soldiers attacked a UN camp targeting Nuer and Shilluk who accused the government of annexing parts of their ancestral land. About a year after the peace agreement was signed, groups of ethnic Dinka youth and the SPLA targeted members of the Fertit in Wau, killing dozens and forcing more than 120,000 to flee their homes. As result, local Fertit tribal militias and groups allied with the SPLM-IO rose in rebellion, causing heavy clashes in the originally relatively peaceful Wau State, which continued for months.\n\nViolence erupted in July 2016 after an attack outside of where President Kiir and Riek Machar were meeting in Juba. Fighting spread throughout the city. Over 300 people were killed and over 40 people were injured, including civilians. In the following week, 26,000 fled to neighboring Uganda. Indian Air Force evacuated Indian citizens from the country under Operation Sankat Mochan. A spokesman for Riek Machar announced that South Sudan was \"back to war\" and that opposition forces based in areas of Juba had been attacked by forces loyal to the President. Fighting involving heavy machine guns, mortars and tanks was reported in several parts of Juba on 10 July. Gun battles broke out near the airport and a UN base forcing the airport to close for safety reasons. President Salva Kiir and first Vice-President Riek Machar ordered a ceasefire after days of intense violence. Machar fled Juba after the clashes. After a 48-hour ultimatum given by Kiir for Machar to return to Juba to progress with the peace agreement talks passed, the SPLA-IO in Juba appointed lead negotiator Taban Deng Gai to replace Machar and the government accepted him as acting vice-president. Machar said any talks would be illegal because Machar had previously fired Gai. Machar, with assistance from the UN, went to exile, first to Kinshasa then to Sudan and then to South Africa, where he was allegedly kept in house arrest.\n\nIn September 2016, Machar announced a call for armed struggle against Kiir and in November, he said SPLM-IO would not participate in a workshop organized by JMEC, saying the peace agreement needs to be revised. In September, Lam Akol, leader of the largest opposition party, Democratic Change, announced a new faction called the National Democratic Movement (NDM) to overthrow Kiir. Yohanis Okiech, who led the largely Shilluk Tiger Faction New Forces, which split from Uliny's Agwelek forces, joined the predominantly Shilluk NDM as deputy chief of general staff. In the same month, the Cobra Faction of the South Sudan Democratic Movement, now led by Khalid Boutros declared war against the government.\n\nOn the international front, the African Union, after the Juba clashes, backed plans for the deployment of troops from regional nations with a strong mandate similar to that of the United Nations Force Intervention Brigade that swiftly defeated the M23 rebels in the Democratic Republic of Congo as UN troops presently within the country have struggled to protect civilians. In August 2016, the UN Security Council authorized such a force for Juba. The government initially opposed the move, claiming a violation of sovereignty. With a resolution threatening an arms embargo if it blocked the new deployment, the government accepted the move with conditions such as the troops not being from neighboring countries, claiming they have interests at stake. They also accepted a hybrid court to investigate war crimes. The US pushed for an arms embargo and sanctions on Machar and army chief Paul Malong Awan through the Security Council, but it failed to receive enough votes to pass in December 2016. After an independent report into UNMISS's failure to protect civilians in the Juba clashes, Secretary-General Ban sacked the commander of the UN force Lt Gen Johnson Mogoa Kimani Ondieki in November and then the general's native Kenya declared that it would pull out of the key role it plays in the peace process and withdrew its more than 1000 peacekeepers from UNMISS before sending the troops back in with the start of the new UN secretary general's tenure. On 30 April 2017, the first batch of the Regional Protection Force arrived under Brigadier General Jean Mupenzi of Rwanda with the first phase of troops arriving in August.\n\nAmong regional powers, Kiir met, in January 2017, with Egyptian president Abdel Fattah el-Sisi who also met with Kiir’s ally Ugandan President Museveni. Egypt had previously rejected the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam that Egypt feels would diminish its share of the Nile River and Ethiopian Prime Minister, Hailemariam Desalegn had accused Egyptian institutions of supporting terrorist groups in Ethiopia. SPLM-IO alleged that a \"dirty deal\" was struck between Kiir and Egypt against Ethiopia while Kiir denied any diplomatic row. SPLM-IO accused the Egyptian Air Force of bombing their positions on February 4, 2017 while Egypt denied it. As a result of Sudan’s effective counterinsurgency strategy in the War in Darfur, the biggest rebel faction, the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM), retreated to South Sudan and became involved in mercenary and criminal activities according to a UN report. SPLM-IO accused JEM as well as another rebel group in Sudan, SPLM-North of joining the conflict on the side of Juba.\n\nSince the July clashes, the fighting spread from the Greater Upper Nile to include the previously safe haven of Equatoria, where the bulk of SPLM-IO forces went for shelter from the clashes in Juba, located in Equatoria. As Equatoria is the agricultural belt of the country, the number of people facing starvation soared to 6 million. In November 2016, SPLM-IO claimed to have taken of the towns Bazi, Morobo and Kaljak. While the rebels were mostly in retreat in the upper nile front, the rebels had gained ground on the Equatorian front where the SPLA was mostly restricted to its garrisons. This was attributed to local self-defence militias becoming increasingly integrated and the depopulation of towns resulting in the army having fewer supplies even while the rebels were already adapted to the bush. However, after the fall of the main rebel headquarters of Pagak in the summer, the Southern headquarters in Lasu fell on 18 December 2017. In late May, Kiir declared a unilateral ceasefire, which was taken with suspicion by others as it came after the late April government offensive that retook much territory and before the rainy season that would have anyway reduced fighting. Three days after the government retook Lasu it signed another ceasefire with the rebels in December 2017.\n\nThe other major front of the conflict remained the Greater Upper Nile, where government forces mostly fought John Uliny's SPLA-IO allied Agwelek forces. In a study of casualties up to early 2018, the deaths from violence peaked during this time between 2016-2017. In October 2016, the rebels attempted to take Malakal and by January 2017, fighting there had led to civilians deserting the country's second largest city. In fighting in the Bahr el Ghazal region, pro-government militia Mathiang Anyoor attacked Wau killing up to 50 civilians in April 2017. In the same month, SPLA-IO captured Raja, the capital of Lol State, while state governor Hassan claimed the city was immediately retaken. A counteroffensive by the government starting in late April 2017 reversed most rebel gains, captured the capital of the Shilluk kingdom, Kodok, from Uliny and closed in on Pagak, which had been the SPLA-IO headquarters since 2014. In July 2017, SPLA along with forces loyal to Taban Deng Gai took over the rebel-held town of Maiwut. The government took over Pagak in August 2017 while the IO rebels still held territory in traditional Nuer areas of Panyijar Country in Unity state and rural areas of Jonglei and Akobo state. SPLA-IO counterattacked Taban Deng Gai's SPLA-IO force, in an attempt to retake Pagak.\n\nAn additional dimension of the conflict became the fighting between the opposition loyal to Machar and those supporting Taban Deng, largely within the Nuer majority former state of Unity. Observers felt that Kiir had given up on negotiations by talking with Taban Deng instead of Machar during the peace talks, as Taban is seen by many in the opposition as a traitor. As part of the \"National Dialogue\" initiated by Kiir in December 2016 where any former rebels who return to the capital will be given amnesty, about a dozen SPLM-IO officials defected to the government in January 2017. Gabriel Tang, who was one of the generals to have defected from Machar during the peace talks in 2015, now allied with Lam Akol's largely Shilluk NDM and became its chief of staff. In January 2017 Tang was killed in clashes with the SPLM-IO allied Agwelek forces led by John Uliny, a move the SPLM-IO proclaimed as a warning to rival rebel factions. Two days later, Olony's forces ambushed and killed Yohanis Okiech.\nIn February 2017, Deputy head of logistics Lt. Gen. Thomas Cirillo Swaka resigned, accusing Kiir of ethnic bias. This led to a series of high ranking resignations, including minister of Labour Lt. Gen. Gabriel Duop Lam who also pledged allegiance to Machar. Swaka formed a new rebel group called the National Salvation Front (NAS or NSF) in March 2017. In March 2017, Cirillo, a Bari from Equatoria, got additional support as SPLM-IO's Western Bahr al Ghazal commander, Faiz Ismail Futur, resigned to joined NAS while there are reports of six SPLM-IO shadow governors from Equatoria defecting to NAS. In the same month, head of the Cobra Faction Khalid Boutros dissolved the Cobra Faction and merged it with Gen. Thomas Cirillo's NAS and claimed opposition groups are in consultation to unite their ranks. In July 2017, John Kenyi Loburon, SPLA-IO's commander of Central Equatoria state switched to join NAS, claiming favoritism towards Nuers in SPLA-IO and then as NAS general in the same month, fought with SPLA-IO in Central Equatoria in the first clashes between the two groups. By November 2017, NAS captured areas in Kajo Keji from SPLM-IO, before both groups were routed by the government. With broad support at its inception, by 2018, many had come to view NAS as simply \"the Bari\". By March 2018, nine opposition groups, including NAS, NDM, SSPA and SSLM but notably not including SPLM-IO, joined to form the 'South Sudan Opposition Alliance' to collectively negotiate with the government.\n\nCracks were appearing along clan lines among the ruling Dinka. Kiir's Dinka of Warrap were in a feud with the Dinka of Paul Malong Awan's Aweil, who contributed the bulk of the government's fighting force in the war. Around this time, the largely Dinka South Sudan Patriotic Army (SSPA) was formed in Northern Bahr el Ghazal, with the backing of powerful figures such as former presidential advisor Costello Garang Ring and allegedly Malong Awan. In May 2017, Kiir reduced the power of the chief of staff position and fired its powerful Dinka nationalist Malong Awan and replaced him with General James Ajonga Mawut, who is not a Dinka but a Luo. Awan left Juba with most of his Mathiang Anyoor militia while other militia members reportedly joined SSPA. By the end of 2017, SSPA had claimed to have captured territory around Aweil and was seen as one of the biggest threats to Juba. Awan was accused of plotting a rebellion and was detained but then released following pressure from the Dinka lobbying group, the Dinka Council of Elders. In April 2018, Awan announced the launch of a rebel group named South Sudan United Front (SS-UF), which claimed to push for federalism.\n\nThe United States, after failing in 2016, put additionally pressure on Juba by successfully passing an arms embargo on South Sudan in July 2018 through UN Security Council, with Russia and China abstaining from voting this time. Additionally, with neighboring Sudan facing economic troubles and relying on revenue from transporting oil from South Sudan, the Sudanese government, with a mix of incentives and coercion, brought Kiir and SPLA-IO to hold talks in Khartoum. In June 2018, they signed another ceasefire where they agreed to form a transitional government for the 36 months leading to national elections and to African Union and IGAD peacekeepers to deploy to South Sudan and state boundaries would be drawn by commission chaired by a non-South Sudanese; this ceasefire was violated just a few hours after coming into effect, when pro-government forces attacked rebels in Wau State. SPLM-IO protested when the Parliament, where the President's party holds a majority of seats, extended the President's term and that of other officials by three years. However, they eventually agreed to share power again with Machar to be one of five Vice Presidents and the 550 seat parliament to be divided with 332 going to Kiir's faction, 128 to Machar's group and the rest to other groups. The South Sudan Opposition Alliance made up of most of the rest of the rebelling militias, rejected the deal citing their small share in the power sharing agreement.\n\nAs part of amnesty offered to groups following the peace deal, in August 2018, Brigadier General Chan Garang, claiming to be lead a group of rebel soldiers from Malong's SS-UF, came back to the government along with 300 rebel soldiers in what was seen as a weakening of SS-UF.\n\nThe government is accused by the US and aid groups among others of using starvation as a tactic of collection punishment for populations that support rebels by intentionally blocking aid.\n\nAteny Wek Ateny, president's spokesman told to news conference, claims that rebel troops went into the hospital in the town of Bor last month and slaughtered 126 out of 127 patients. Apparently an elderly man was blind and rebels spared him. On January 31, 2014 in violation of the cease fire agreement, the signed Government troops attacked town of Leer in Unity State, forcing 240 Staff and patients of Doctors Without Borders in Leer to flee into the bush. Thousands of civilians have fled to the bush. Doctors Without Borders has lost contact with two thirds of its staff formerly located in Leer. It is believed that the town was attacked by government troops as it is the home of former Vice President Riek Machar.\nOn 18 April, UN said that at least 58 people were killed and more than 100 others wounded in an attack against one of its bases in South Sudan sheltering thousands of civilians. On 17 April 2014, 58 people were killed in an attack on the UN base in Bor. 48 of those killed were civilians, while 10 were among the attackers. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon emphasised that any attack on UN peacekeepers constituted \"a war crime\", while the UN Security Council expressed \"outrage\" at the attack. In late 2016, in a government attack on Yei, three villages were destroyed with 3,000 homes burned in a single village.\n\nThere are ethnic undertones to the conflict with the SPLM and SPLA, which have been accused of being dominated by the Dinka. A Dinka lobbying group known as the \"Jieng Council of Elders\" is often accused of being behind hardline SPLM policies. While the army used to attract men from across tribes, during the war, the SPLA had largely constituted soldiers from the Dinka stronghold of Bahr el Ghazal, and the army was often referred to within the country as \"the Dinka army\". Much of the worst atrocities committed are blamed on a group known as \"Dot Ke Beny\" (Rescue the President) or \"Mathiang Anyoor\" (Brown caterpillar), while the SPLA claim that it is just another battalion. Immediately after the alleged coup in 2013, Dinka troops, and particularly Mathiang Anyoor, were accused of carrying out pogroms, assisted by guides, in house to house searches of Nuer suburbs, while similar door to door searches of Nuers were reported in government held Malakal. About 240 Nuer men were killed at a police station in Juba's Gudele neighborhood. During the fighting in 2016-17 in the Upper Nile region between the SPLA and the SPLA-IO allied Upper Nile faction of Uliny, Shilluk in Wau Shilluk were forced from their homes and Yasmin Sooka, chairwoman of the Commission on Human Rights in South Sudan, claimed that the government was engaging in \"social engineering\" after it transported 2,000 mostly Dinka people to the abandoned areas. The king of the Shilluk Kingdom, Kwongo Dak Padiet, claimed his people were at risk of physical and cultural extinction. In the Equatoria region, Dinka soldiers were accused of targeting civilians on ethnic lines against the dozens of ethnic groups among the Equatorians, with much of the atrocities being blamed on Mathiang Anyoor. Adama Dieng, the U.N.'s Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide, warned of genocide after visiting areas of fighting in Yei. Khalid Boutros of the Cobra faction as well as officials of the Murle led Boma State accuse the SPLA of aiding attacks by Dinka from Jonglei state against Boma state, and soldiers from Jonglei captured Kotchar in Boma in 2017.\n\nThe SPLM-IO is predominantly Nuer and its head, Machar, had previously committed the Bor massacre of mostly Dinka civilians in 1991. In 2014, the Bentiu massacre occurred when Bentiu was recaptured by rebels April 2014 and 200 people were killed in a mosque. Rebels separated the people and picked out those from opposing ethnic groups who they then executed.\n\nSince the conflict began, more than 17,000 children were used in the conflict, with 1,300 recruited in 2016.\n\nReported incidents of sexual violence rose 60% in 2016, with Mundri in Equatoria's Amadi State being called the epicenter of the problem. A UN survey found that 70% of women who were sheltering in camps had been raped since the beginning of the conflict, with the vast majority of rapists being police and soldiers and that 80% had witnessed someone else getting sexually assaulted. The SPLA were reported to have recruited militias and young men in Unity state to take back rebel held areas. They were given guns and their pay was what they could loot and women they could capture, who were raped.\n\nIt has been argued that with increased tension with the UN and outside powers over the government's actions there has been a new shift in violence by the government against foreign peacekeepers, aid workers and diplomats. NGOs are viewed with suspicion, with Minister of cabinet affairs claiming \"most of the (humanitarian) agencies are here to spy on the government.\" During the 2016 Juba clashes, 80-100 South Sudanese troops entered the Terrain hotel facility and gang raped five international aid workers, singling out Americans for abuse, with nearby peacekeepers refusing to help the victims. In July, soldiers ransacked a World Food Programme warehouse, stealing enough food to feed 220,000 people for a month, worth about $30 million. In July, a Rocket-propelled grenade was fired near a UN peacekeepers' vehicle with two Chinese peacekeepers dying after the government refused passage to a clinic 10 miles away. In December 2016, two staff members of the Norwegian Refugee Council were expelled from the country without a formal explanation. In the deadliest attack on aid workers, six aid workers were killed in an ambush on 25 March 2017 bringing the number of aid workers killed since the start of the war to at least 79.\n\nViolence has come from the rebel side as well. On 26 August 2014, a UN Mi-8 cargo helicopter was shot down, killing 3 Russian crew members, and wounding another. This occurred 9 days after rebel commander Peter Gadet threatened to shoot down UN aircraft, which he alleged were transporting government forces.\n\nDuring the first two days of fighting after December 15, reports indicated that 66 soldiers had been killed in clashes in Juba, and at least 800 injured. By 23 December, the number of dead had likely surpassed 1,000 people while an aid worker in the country estimated that the death toll was most likely in the tens of thousands. The International Crisis Group reported on 9 January 2014 that up to 10,000 people were estimated to have died. In November 2014, the International Crisis Group estimated the death toll could be between 50,000 and 100,000. A senior SPLA officer stated in November 2014 that the number of government soldiers killed and wounded topped 20,000, with 10,659 soldiers killed from January to October 2014 and 9,921 seriously wounded, according to a report by Radio Tamazuj. By March 2016, after more than two years of fighting, some aid workers and officials who did not want to speak on the record said the true figure might be as high as 300 000. A study by the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine of deaths leading up to April 2018, reported that about 383,000 people are conservatively estimated to have died as a result of the war, while the actual may be considerably higher, with 190,000 deaths directly attributed to violence and most of the deaths in Jonglei, Unity and Equatoria.\n\nTwo Indian UN peacekeepers were killed on 18 December when their base was stormed by rebels, and three US military Osprey aircraft were fired upon leading to four American service personnel being wounded. On 21 January 2014 Ankunda said that 9 Ugandan soldiers died in a rebel ambush at Gemeza a week ago, and 12 others had been killed in total since 23 December.\n\nMore than 4 million people have been displaced, with about 1.8 million internally displaced and about 2.5 million having fled to neighboring countries, especially Kenya, Sudan, and Uganda. This makes it the world's third-largest refugee population after Syria and Afghanistan. About 86% of the refugees are women and children. Uganda, which took more refugees in 2016 than all of those who crossed the Mediterranean into Europe, has had a notably generous policy. Refugees are allowed to work and travel and families get a 30-metre by 30-metre plot of land to build a home with additional space for farming. In just six months since being built, the Bidi Bidi Refugee Settlement in Uganda became the single largest refugee settlement on earth. However, the Ugandan government is seen as an ally of Kiir's crackdown on rebels, although with an increasing refugee population, Uganda has pressured Kiir to make peace. The largest contingent of the Refugee Olympic Team at the 2016 Summer Olympics came from South Sudan, including its flag bearer.\n\nAfter the second Juba clashes, fighting intensified in the Equatoria region. As this is the agricultural heart of the country, the number of people facing starvation in the already food insecure nation soared to 6 million. In February 2017, famine was declared in Unity state by the government and the United Nations, the first declaration of famine anywhere in the world in six years. Days after the declaration of famine, the government raised the price of a business visa from $100 to $10,000, mostly aimed at aid workers, citing a need to increase government revenue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "291839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291839", "title": "Stockholm Pride", "text": "Stockholm Pride\n\nStockholm Pride (styled as STHLM Pride) is an annual gay pride festival held in Stockholm, the capital of Sweden. Since the start in 1998, Stockholm Pride has grown. In 2014, some 60,000 participated and 600,000 followed the parade at the streets.\n\nThe celebrations normally starts with lectures and exhibitions all over the city on the Monday. Pride House is the festival's cultural centre. It is packed with seminars, debates, workshops, exhibitions, film, theatre and other performances.\n\nOn the Wednesday it's the grand opening of the closed off Pride Park which is the festival arena for tens of thousands of people, and in the park organisation stalls, stages, restaurants, shops, and other attractions are built. Pride Park is open Wednesday through Sunday and every afternoon and evening a wide variety of famous artists and shows appear on the main stage.\n\nAlso outside the official Pride Park, there is a green and leafy area where people join up, drink, listen to the music and party into the warm summer night.\n\nMany people have been out on the streets of Stockholm, enjoying the parade that ends in the park.\n\nIn addition to the official Stockholm Pride events, the week is noticeable elsewhere in the city. Many of the gay clubs have their own events and themed nights, one of these is Mr Gay Sweden.\n\nThe festival is held in the end of July or beginning of August each year.\n\nIn 1998, 2008 and 2018 Stockholm Pride was the host of the EuroPride.\n\nEach year a unique design accessory is create to accompanies the Stockholm Pride festival event. The Dog-tag is chosen through a design competition, alternating internationally renowned names such as Jean Paul Gaultier, Efva Attling, Lars Wallin and young debutant designer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25459834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25459834", "title": "Synthalin", "text": "Synthalin\n\nSynthalin was an oral anti-diabetic drug. Discovered in 1926 it was marketed in Europe by Schering AG of Berlin as a synthetic drug with insulin-like properties that could be taken orally. However, it was toxic to the liver and kidney and was withdrawn from the market in the early 1940s.\n\nThe folk remedy French lilac (\"Galega officinalis\"), was used to treat the symptoms of diabetes, and towards the end of the nineteenth century it was discovered to contain guanidine. This had an hypoglycaemic effect but was very toxic to the liver. Karl Slotta at the Chemistry Institute of the University of Vienna synthesied derived compounds that had a polymethylene chain with a guanidine group at each end. These diguanides were less toxic and more potent than guanidine. In 1926, E. Frank, working in Oskar Minkowski's clinic in Wroclaw performed a clinical trial on one of these agents. It was subsequently marketed as Synthalin by Schering AG for treating mild cases of diabetes.\n\nAdverse reports on the toxicity of Synthalin prompted the development of Synthalin B (which had a slightly longer polymethylene chain and was claimed to be safer) and the former product was re-branded Synthalin A. However liver toxicity continued to be a problem, leading to discontinuation in the 1930s, though Synthalin B continued to be used in Germany until the mid-1940s.\n\nAfter it was discovered that trypanosomes require a plentiful supply of glucose in order to reproduce, researchers tested Synthalin and related compounds to see if they could be effective treatments. Synthalin was effective, at doses lower than would interfere with blood sugar in the patient. Further modifications to the chemical structure led to the diamidine class of drugs, of which pentamidine is still used against trypanosomiasis. Pentamidine is also effective against a range of protozoa such as \"Pneumocystis jirovecii\", which causes pneumocystis pneumonia in AIDS patients.\n\n"}
{"id": "31478215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31478215", "title": "Tesco bomb campaign", "text": "Tesco bomb campaign\n\nThe Tesco bomb campaign was an attempted extortion against British supermarket chain Tesco which started in Bournemouth, Dorset, in August 2000 and led to one of the largest and most secretive operations ever undertaken by Dorset Police. During the campaign, a blackmailer identified by the pseudonym \"Sally\" sent letters to Tesco stores threatening to harm customers if his demands, for Clubcards modified so that the holder could withdraw cash from ATMs, were not met.\n\nSeveral months after the threat first came to light, \"Sally\" sent out several letter bombs, one of which was received and exploded in the face of the householder, causing her shock and minor injuries, while the Royal Mail intercepted several other packages, which had been held up because insufficient stamps had been put on them. In October 2000, \"Sally\" threatened to use pipe bombs against Tesco customers and the threat was taken seriously enough that Tesco began the production of the modified Clubcards, but were unable to produce the required number before the deadline set by the blackmailer. In November, \"Sally\" claimed to have placed a pipe bomb in a garden in the Ferndown area of Dorset. No bomb was found.\n\nPolice eventually mounted a surveillance operation on the postbox to which several of the extortion letters had been traced and identified \"Sally\" as Robert Edward Dyer. Dyer was arrested in February 2001, over six months since the beginning of the extortion attempt, and charged with several offences, including nine counts of blackmail and one of common assault, of which he was found guilty in May 2001. He was sentenced to 16-years imprisonment on 12 June 2001, later reduced to 12 on appeal. A number of similar extortion attempts against supermarket chains and other businesses and subsequent attacks on Tesco have since been compared to Dyer's campaign by the media.\n\nThe campaign began in August 2000, when John Purnell, director of security for Tesco, the United Kingdom's largest supermarket chain, was telephoned by a newsagent in Bournemouth, Dorset, who had discovered a copy of an extortion letter left on his shop's photocopier. The letter demanded that Tesco give away Clubcards, modified for use in cash machines, in the \"Bournemouth Daily Echo\". Over the following days, Dorset Police received two other letters, threatening to send bombs to Tesco customers if the demands were not met.\n\nThe police investigation into the campaign, codenamed Operation Hornbill, was one of the most secretive ever undertaken by Dorset Police and one of the largest in British policing history. After receiving the second letter, which had been damaged by fire, police made enquiries with the Royal Mail and discovered that a fire had been reported in a postbox on Bradpole Road, Bournemouth, leading to speculation that \"Sally\"—the alias by which all the letters were signed—had changed his mind and attempted to destroy the letter. They received a third letter on 29 August 2000, in which \"Sally\" claimed to have prepared letter bombs to send to Tesco's customers.\n\nAfter receiving the third letter, the police attempted to communicate with \"Sally\" by covertly taking out a classified advert in the \"Bournemouth Daily Echo\" to buy more time. After receiving no response in three weeks, the senior investigating officer, Detective Superintendent Phil James, convened a meeting with other senior officers from across the United Kingdom to assess the threat posed.\n\nDuring James' meeting, he was informed that a letter bomb had exploded in a suburb of Bournemouth. In a documentary about the investigation in 2009, James said \"There was a knock at the door and I was told by one of my officers that an incendiary device had just gone off. The atmosphere of the meeting changed. Clearly there was a risk and the threat was very real\". Jean Evans, the woman who opened the letter bomb, was taken to hospital with minor injuries, and a bomb disposal team from the British Army was dispatched to the scene. The device had used a party popper to detonate gunpowder inside the envelope. Immediately after the first letter bomb, Dorset Police alerted Royal Mail to look out for similar packages and several were found in a sorting office, having been delayed because insufficient stamps had been placed on them, and defused by the Army. A further seven of the packages were delivered to the homes of Tesco customers. Following the spate of letter bombs, the Army's bomb disposal team was stationed in Bournemouth—something that only usually happens when political party conferences are held in the town—and placed on stand-by.\n\nAnother threatening letter was sent in October, threatening to attack Tesco customers with pipe bombs if the demands were not met. The letter contained a cipher which allowed the police to communicate with \"Sally\" in code through cryptic adverts in the \"Bournemouth Daily Echo\". James contacted the editor of the \"Echo\" and the police were allowed to place the messages in the \"Echo\", disguised as Mensa puzzles and made to look like wordsearches. By this time, the police had narrowed the focus of their investigation on a square-mile area of Bournemouth and James became convinced that they would find \"Sally\" through the postbox on Bradpole Road, through which the fire-damaged letter had passed in August. The box was placed under surveillance and, eventually, the October letter was traced back to that box. The footage from the surveillance operation was reviewed, but the image was of poor quality.\n\nIn November 2000, \"Sally\" lost patience and sent a letter in which he said he would place a pipe bomb in the garden of a Tesco customer if his demands were not met, prompting the police to seriously consider producing the modified Clubcards. They discovered that they could not produce sufficient cards by 12 December, the deadline \"Sally\" had set. Approximately 100,000 Clubcards, modified for use in ATMs, were eventually produced, but none were distributed. At the end of November, \"Sally\" sent another letter, telling the police that he had planted a bomb in a garden in the Ferndown area, giving a grid reference which included over 500 houses. The claim prompted the mobilisation of hundreds of police officers to the area, but no bomb was found.\n\nThe police received another letter from \"Sally\" on 7 December. Once again, the letter was traced back to the Bradpole road postbox, where the surveillance operation had continued. The operation had captured good-quality footage of all the users of the postbox that day, but, as it was close to Christmas, the postbox was busier than normal, with 172 items posted by 38 people. Royal Mail regulations meant that detectives could not open or delay the letters, so they made enquiries with the recipients to identify the senders. They eventually managed to identify all but a small number of the senders.\n\nOn 17 February 2001, over six months after the receipt of the first demand and three months since the last letter from \"Sally\", the police made a major breakthrough. Detective Constable Alan Swanton, a junior detective on the case, spotted one of the people caught by the surveillance of the postbox who had yet to be identified. The man was carrying a fuel container, which Swanton believed had come from a nearby filling station. Officers obtained CCTV footage from the filling station, where their suspect had paid by cheque, and identified the man as Robert Edward Dyer.\n\nDyer, who, at the time, was a 51-year-old widower and unsuccessful businessman living with his two teenage daughters, was placed under surveillance. The surveillance operation did not yield any results, so the police decided to confront Dyer and visited him at his home on 19 February, where they found an extortion note on his computer and cryptic notes in his handwriting. Dyer was arrested and interviewed. The police later intercepted the final letter from \"Sally\", which surveillance footage showed Dyer posting the day before he was arrested and which was an exact match to the letter found on Dyer's computer. Detective Superintendent James later revealed that Dyer \"was an individual in desperate need of money and believing that Tesco was the answer to all his problems.\"\n\nDyer was charged and, in May 2001, pleaded guilty on nine counts of blackmail, as well as a sole count of common assault against Jean Evans, the woman who opened the letter bomb. On 12 June 2001, he was sentenced to 16-years imprisonment by a judge at Dorchester Crown Court. The sentence was reduced to 12-years imprisonment on appeal and Dyer was released from prison in 2007.\n\nDuring the trial, it emerged that Dyer had worn gloves to avoid leaving fingerprints on the letters and used water to stick the stamps rather than licking them, but that he had made errors, such as leaving a copy of an extortion demand on a newsagent's photocopier, however, there is speculation that this was done so his letter would reach Tesco by a person other than himself. Although Dyer initially demanded only £200,000, Tesco would have lost an estimated £5 million had they complied with Dyer's demand to place cards in every copy of the \"Bournemouth Echo\".\n\nThe investigation was one of the largest and most secretive that had ever been undertaken by Dorset Police. The campaign was compared in the media to other similar extortion attempts against Tesco and other British businesses. Dyer got inspiration for the campaign from an article he read about Rodney Whitchelo, who attempted to extort £4 million from H. J. Heinz Company by spiking jars of baby food. Witchelo was sentenced to 17-years imprisonment in 1990. Dyer's campaign was also compared to that of Edgar Pearce, dubbed the \"Mardi Gras bomber\" by the media. Over three years, Pearce had used bombs in an attempt to extort money from Barclays Bank and Sainsbury's supermarkets. He was sentenced to 21-years imprisonment in 1999. Later incidents have also been compared to Dyer's campaign, including another against Tesco in 2007.\n\nA documentary about the campaign was made in 2009 and broadcast by ITV. The documentary featured interviews with Neal Butterworth, then-editor of the \"Bournemouth Daily Echo\" and DSI James, the police officer who led the investigation.\n"}
{"id": "8438202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8438202", "title": "The First (musical)", "text": "The First (musical)\n\nThe First is a musical with a book by critic Joel Siegel. The music was composed by Robert Brush, and Martin Charnin wrote the lyrics. The show is based on the life of Brooklyn Dodgers second baseman Jackie Robinson, the first African-American to play major league baseball in the 20th century.\n\nThe musical premiered on Broadway at the Martin Beck Theatre on November 17, 1981 and closed on December 12, 1981 after 37 performances and 33 previews. Charnin has said that despite \"stellar reviews,\" the musical failed to secure one: that of Frank Rich of the \"The New York Times,\" \"which at the time meant everything.\" Directed by Charnin and choreographed by Alan Johnson, the original cast included David Alan Grier as Jackie Robinson, and Lonette McKee as his wife Rachel.\n\n"}
{"id": "51892779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51892779", "title": "The Great Mint Swindle", "text": "The Great Mint Swindle\n\nThe Great Mint Swindle is a 2012 Australian television film directed by Geoff Bennett and starring Grant Bowler, Todd Lasance and Josh Quong Tart. It is based on the Perth Mint Swindle which took place in the 1980s.\n\nIn the beginning of the 1980s boom in Western Australia, the Mickleberg brothers Ray (Grant Bowler), Peter (Todd Lasance) and Brian (Josh Quong Tart) spend their days looking for adventure and finding new ways to earn money. One day, they are accused of stealing 49 gold bars from a mint in Perth and selling them to tycoon Alan Bond (David Meadows). For 20 years, the fight to clear the Mickleberg brothers of a crime that they didn't commit goes on which to this day remains unsolved.\n\n\nReviews for \"The Great Mint Swindle\" have been positive. IMDb gave the film a rating of 7.3/10.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12998997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12998997", "title": "Toma (TV series)", "text": "Toma (TV series)\n\nToma is an American crime drama series that ran on ABC in 1973 and 1974.\n\nThe series stars Tony Musante and Susan Strasberg and was based on the real-life story and published biography of Newark, New Jersey, police detective David Toma. Toma had compiled an amazing arrest record during his years on the force, particularly in arresting drug dealers. His boss, Inspector Spooner, was played by Simon Oakland.\n\nThe show ended production after one season, as Musante had only agreed to film one full season, citing a desire not to get trapped into only playing one character over a long period of time. The network and show runners had initially assumed this to be a negotiating ploy, but Musante held firm and decided not to return.\n\nAlthough the role was recast with Robert Blake, it was soon felt that Blake would be better served with a reworked and rewritten concept; accordingly, \"Toma\" was overhauled into the 1975 series \"Baretta\". Aside from the circumstances of its conception, \"Baretta\" has no on-screen connection with \"Toma\", as the shows have no characters or settings in common.\n\nMany of the people on the \"Toma\" writing staff would go on to write episodes of \"The Rockford Files\", which debuted shortly after \"Toma\"'s cancellation. These writers included Stephen J. Cannell, Roy Huggins (who signed most of his work on both shows as \"John Thomas James\"), Juanita Bartlett, Zekial Marko, Don Carlos Dunaway, and Gloryette Clark. Series stars Musante, Strasberg and Oakland would also guest star on various episodes of \"The Rockford Files\".\n\nThe series received favorable reviews and blistering criticism for its depictions of criminal and police violence. Although \"Toma\" was achieving relatively good ratings, the show was cancelled after one season. A second season was planned, but Tony Musante refused to continue with the show. Musante had told the producers at the outset that he only wanted to do one season, but they mistakenly assumed that this was only a negotiating tactic and that he would return if the series was renewed.\n\nRather than recast the starring role of Toma, the show was retooled as \"Baretta\" starring Robert Blake, with violent scenes toned down. \"Baretta\" debuted as a mid-season replacement on ABC in early 1975.\n\nAccording to interviews on \"The Greatest American Hero\" DVD set, a writers strike during the shooting of \"Toma\" is what indirectly led to \"The Rockford Files\". Writer Stephen J. Cannell and his mentor Roy Huggins created the character of Jim Rockford as a way to get around an impossible schedule created by the strike.\n\nDespite having contributed to the development of the popular \"Baretta\", reruns of \"Toma\" were never syndicated to local stations, and repeats of the show on national television post-cancellation have been rare. Repeats of \"Toma\" aired in the late-1970s during \"ABC Late Night\", and later on USA Network's \"Crimebusters\" in 1984-1985. One episode aired on TV Land in 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "32051960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32051960", "title": "Toxic workplace", "text": "Toxic workplace\n\nA toxic workplace is a workplace that is marked by significant drama and infighting, where personal battles often harm productivity. Toxic workplaces are often considered the result of toxic employers and/or toxic employees who are motivated by personal gain (power, money, fame or special status), use unethical, mean-spirited and sometimes illegal means to manipulate and annoy those around them; and whose motives are to maintain or increase power, money or special status or divert attention away from their performance shortfalls and misdeeds. Toxic workers do not recognize a duty to the organization for which they work or their co-workers in terms of ethics or professional conduct toward others. Toxic workers define relationships with co-workers, not by organizational structure but by co-workers they favour and those they do not like or trust.\n\nQuite similarly, Harder et al. (2014) define a toxic work environment as an environment that negatively impacts the viability of an organization. They specify: \"It is reasonable to conclude that an organization can be considered toxic if it is ineffective as well as destructive to its employees\".\n\nIn the United States, the issue of workplace bullying is getting increasing attention from state governments; twenty-six states have introduced a version of the Healthy Workplace Bill which provides a definition of this conduct and support for employers to address the behaviour through discipline.\n\nStudies by National Occupational Safety and Health found toxic workplace environments a leading cause of workplace violence such as “violent acts, including physical assaults and threats of assault, directed toward persons at work or on duty.” Studies on this issue include verbal violence (threats, verbal abuse, hostility, harassment, and the like) can cause significant psychological trauma and stress, even if no physical injury takes place. Verbal assaults and hostility can also escalate to physical violence.\n\nThis phenomenon harms both the company and the other employees, including those who are not direct targets. Co-workers are distracted by drama, gossip and by choosing sides in the ongoing animosity. This can translate into lost productivity. While employees are distracted by this activity, they cannot devote time and attention to the achievement of business goals. Positively motivated and ethical employees may try to speak up to a toxic employee but this can make them a target (see whistleblower). Managers of toxic employees can feel intimidated by a toxic employee and try to appease the employee in an effort to avoid confrontation. Over time, positively motivated employees drift away from the workplace and may begin to view management as inept and ineffective. This can result in poor job performance as they begin to feel less valued, therefore less loyal to the company. \n\nFellow employees may begin to experience physical symptoms from the stress and worry over whether they or someone they care about in the work place may be targeted. This can even develop into a clinical depression requiring treatment.\n\nInterventions to address this negative behaviour in the workplace should be undertaken carefully. A four-tiered approach involving fellow employees is suggested by Dr. Gerald Hickson and colleagues at the Vanderbilt University School of Medicine. This approach starts with an informal intervention, then, if that is not effective, moves on to a true awareness intervention, an authoritarian intervention and finally, discipline.\n\nWhen toxic workers leave the workplace, it can improve the culture overall because the remaining staff become more engaged and productive. Companies who articulate a strong set of cultural values regarding communication, respect and professionalism as well as a performance evaluation system that ranks both technical performance and the professional treatment of fellow employees are felt by HR professionals to be less vulnerable.\n\n"}
{"id": "11990403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11990403", "title": "Uprising of Peter Delyan", "text": "Uprising of Peter Delyan\n\nThe Uprising of Peter Delyan (, ), which took place in 1040–1041, was a major Bulgarian rebellion against the Byzantine Empire. It was the largest and best-organised attempt to restore the former Bulgarian Empire until the rebellion of Ivan Asen I and Petar IV in 1185.\n\nAfter Byzantine troops conquered Bulgaria in 1018, Basil II wisely decided not to change the Bulgarian taxation system in order to placate the population. Although the Bulgarian Patriarchate was downgraded to Archbishopric, its head remained an ethnic Bulgarian till Basil II's death in 1025. Under the rule of Emperor Romanos III the population was forced to pay its taxes in coin rather than in goods-in-kind, which caused poverty and widespread unrest.\n\nIn 1040, Peter Delyan, who claimed to be a descendant of Samuil of Bulgaria escaped from Constantinople and began roaming throughout the Bulgarian lands, eventually reaching Morava and Belgrade. The rebellion broke out in Belgrade, where Delyan was proclaimed Emperor of Bulgaria assuming the name of the sainted Emperor Peter I. The Bulgarians moved southwards towards the last political centres of their Empire, Ohrid and Skopje. On their way the local population joined them, accepted Peter Delyan for its Emperor and killed every Byzantine they met. In the same time local Bulgarians from the Dyrrhachium area gathered around the soldier Tihomir and headed westwards to reach the old capitals. The existence of two separate rebel camps became an actual threat for the success of the rebellion. Petar Delyan wrote a letter to Tihomir to negotiate for joint actions and made a speech in which, in figurative language, he told the assembled people that as it was not possible for two parrots to the share a bush without discord, so two emperors could not share one country and that they should chose only one leader, either him or Tihomir. He deliberately used the \"parrots\" because the two parrots used to be the coat-of-arms of the Comitopuli House. As he had greater influence than his rival, Delyan was unanimously chosen as leader and Tihomir was killed.\n\nWith his enlarged army Petar II advanced to the south, surprised and defeated the Byzantine Emperor Michael IV the Paphlagonian at Thessaloniki taking his treasury. One of Michael's commanders the Bulgarian Manuel Ivats, probably a son of Samuil's boyar Ivats joined Peter II. After the victory the Bulgarian troops under the \"voivoda\" Kavkan captured Dyrrachium on the Adriatic Sea and some forces penetrated deep into Thessaly eventually reaching Corinth. Albania, Epirus and most of Macedonia were conquered. Another Bulgarian army led by Antim marched deep to the south and defeated the Byzantine commander Alakaseus in the battle of Thebes in Boeotia. Upon the news of the Bulgarian success the Byzantine population of Athens and Piraeus who were uneasy due to the heavy taxes also revolted but were quickly crushed by Norman mercenaries. The decisive actions of the rebels caused serious anxiety in Constantinople where plans for crushing the rebellion were hastily discussed.\n\nSoon the news for the Bulgarian uprising reached Armenia, where the descendents of the last Bulgarian Emperors were deported. The most respected of them was the son of the last Emperor Ivan Vladislav, Alusian. Disguised as a mercenary he reached Constantinople and despite the strict security measures managed to go to Bulgaria in September 1040. The appearance of a new pretendent for the throne meant new tensions among the rebels. In the beginning Alusian did not dare to reveal his origin but tried to find devoted supporters of his kin. He proved his claims with a black spot on his right elbow and soon gathered many adherents.\n\nPetar II Delyan warmly welcomed his cousin although he knew that Alusian might be a potential candidate for the crown. He gave him a 40,000 strong army to seize Thessaloniki but he failed, having attacked the enemy with a tired army. The defeat cost 15,000 dead and Alusian fled from the battle field leaving his arms and armour.\n\nThe heavy defeat sharply worsened the relations between the two leaders: Alusian was ashamed by the defeat and Petar Delyan suspected treason. Alusian decided to act first and plotted against his cousin. He invited Delyan to a feast, where his followers served the Emperor many cups of wine. When Petar got drunk on the wine, the conspirators came down on him and pulled out his eyes with a knife. Thus Alusian became the single leader. In the beginning he undertook active operations but was defeated again and had to flee for his life. Then he secretly negotiated with the Byzantines. After they reached an agreement in the summer of 1041, Alusian pretended to give a decisive battle, but when the two armies met he abandoned his troops and changed sides.\n\nThe Byzantine Emperor Michael IV prepared a major campaign to finally defeat the Bulgarians. He gathered an elite army of 40,000 men with capable generals and moved constantly in a battle formation. There were a lot of mercenaries in the Byzantine army including the Norwegian Prince and later King Harald Hardråde with 500 Varangians. From Thessaloniki the Byzantines penetrated in Bulgaria and defeated the Bulgarians at Ostrovo in the late summer of 1041. It seems that the Varangians had a decisive role in the victory as their chief is hailed in the Norse sagas as the \"devastator of Bulgaria\". Though blind, Petar Delyan was in command of the army. His fate is unknown; he either perished in the battle or was captured and taken to Constantinople.\n\nSoon the Byzantines eliminated the resistance of Delyan's remaining voivodes, Botko around Sofia and Manuil Ivats in Prilep, thus ending the Bulgarian revolt.\n\n"}
{"id": "7747369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7747369", "title": "Vestalia", "text": "Vestalia\n\nVestalia was a Roman religious festival in honor of Vesta, the goddess of the hearth and the burning continuation of the sacred fire of Rome. It was held from 7 - 15 June.\n\nDomestic and family life in general were represented by the festival of the goddess of the house and of the spirits of the storechamber - Vesta and the Penates - on \"Vestalia\". On the first day of festivities the \"penus Vestae\" (\"sanctum sanctorum\" of the temple of Vesta which was usually curtained off) was opened, for the only time during the year, at which women offered sacrifices. As long as the curtain remained open, mothers could come, barefoot and disheveled, to leave offerings to the goddess in exchange for a blessing to them and their family. \n\nThe animal consecrated to Vesta, the donkey, was crowned with garlands of flowers and bits of bread on 9 June. Ovid says that donkeys were adorned with necklaces of bread-bits in memory of the myth where Vesta is nearly violated by Priapus. In that myth, it is the untimely bray of a donkey that startles Priapus causing him to flee. Before that, he says donkeys were honored on 9 June in thanks for the services they provided in the bakeries. \n\nThe final day (15 June) was Q(uando) S(tercum) D(elatum) F(as) [\"when dung may be removed lawfully\"] - the \"penus Vestae\" was solemnly closed; the \"Flaminica Dialis\" observed mourning, and the temple was subjected to a purification called \"stercoratio\": the filth was swept from the temple and carried next by the route called \"clivus Capitolinus\" and then into the Tiber.\n\nThe military \"Feriale Duranum\" of AD 224 records the first day of \"Vestalia\" as \"Vesta apperit[ur]\" and the last day as \"Vesta cluditur\".\n\n"}
{"id": "9196675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9196675", "title": "William Richards Castle", "text": "William Richards Castle\n\nWilliam Richards Castle (March 19, 1849 – June 5, 1935) was a Hawaiian lawyer and politician in the Kingdom of Hawaii and Republic of Hawaii.\n\nWilliam Richards Castle was born in Honolulu on March 19, 1849. His father was Samuel Northrup Castle (1808–1894), and mother was Mary Tenney Castle (1819–1907). He was a namesake of William Richards (1793–1847) who drafted the first constitution of the kingdom. On October 12, 1875 he married Ida Beatrice Lowrey (1854–1926) on October 12, 1875 and had three children.\n\nHis brothers George Parmele Castle (1851–1932) and James Bicknell Castle (1855–1918) became executives in the firm Castle & Cooke which was co-founded by his father and Amos Starr Cooke, and developed it into one of the \"Big Five\" corporations that dominated the Territory of Hawaii economy.\n\nHe attended Punahou School (then known as Oahu College) and then Oberlin College in Ohio and Harvard Law School, earning an LL.B. degree in 1873. He practised law for two years in New York City before returning to Hawaii in 1876. He was officer and director of several corporations.\nAfter Richard H. Stanley died in office in 1875, \nhe was appointed to be Attorney General for King David Kalākaua from February to December 1876, when he was replaced by Alfred S. Hartwell. He was elected to the legislature of the Hawaiian Kingdom in the House of Representatives from 1878 to 1886, and House of Nobles from 1887 to 1888. Oberlin awarded him an honorary degree in 1887.\n\nHe later became a member of Committee of Safety, and member of Sons of the American Revolution. After the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii in 1893, he served on commissions to lobby for annexation by the United States, was president of the Board of Education, and commissioner of public lands.\n\nHe bequeathed a book fund at Harvard College Library in his name, focusing specifically on South Seas literature. His \"Ex libris\" bookplate contains personal coat of arms, arms of the Kingdom of Hawaii, and the Harvard College Shield.\nHe died June 5, 1935 and was buried at the mission houses cemetery at Kawaiahao Church.\n\nHis son Alfred Lowrey Castle (1884–1972) also graduated from Harvard in 1906 and Harvard Law School, and joined the family firm of Castle & Withington in 1908. He then started his own law firm of Robertson, Castle and Olsen. Alfred was director of Alexander & Baldwin and elected to the Territorial legislature in 1911 and 1915-1918. He was a pitcher on the Harvard baseball team, and won 11 championships of the Hawaii Tennis Association. Alfred married Ethelinda Schaefer in 1908 and had a son Alfred Lowrey Castle Jr. and two other children. He was an active member of the American Alpine Club since 1930.\n\nCastle's oldest son, William Richards Castle, Jr. was born June 19, 1878, became an educator, author and diplomat, and died October 14, 1963. His book \"Hawaii Past and Present,\" on the history and people of Hawaii, is dedicated to \"My Father: Lifelong friend of the Hawaiian People; foremost among those who have laboured for the upbringing of the Islands—his unselfish devotion is the inspiration of his children.\" \n\nHe also had a daughter Beatrice who was born July 30, 1888, married Burton Edgar Newcomb, and died June 8, 1931.\n\nA descendant directs a foundation in honor of the Castle family, and William Richards Castle was a founding trustee.\n\n"}
{"id": "9309776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9309776", "title": "Zvezde Granda", "text": "Zvezde Granda\n\nZvezde Granda (Serbian Cyrillic: \"Звезде Гранда\"; \"Grand Stars\") is a Serbian reality television music competition organized by the Grand Production record label to find new singing sensations. The contestants are aspiring singers drawn from public auditions. The show features elements from the international franchises such as Idol and The X Factor. It is broadcasting on commercial television throughout the former Yugoslavia, airing primary on Prva TV in Serbia, previously on Pink TV, as well as other regional television channels. The competition has so far been held in twelve seasons with the thirteenth season beginning in September.\n\nThe show has had fourteen winners so far with various other contestants who have appeared on the show and gained success in the music industry like Tanja Savić, Rada Manojlović, Milan Stanković, Milica Pavlović, Aleksandra Prijović and many others. Zvezde Granda is arguably the most popular talent show on the Balkans with high viewership most of the season.\n\nThe show starts with a jury consisting of music stars and show's producers, led by the owner of Grand Production, Saša Popović, picking out the contestants in the auditions throughout Serbia and other west Balkan countries. Musical numbers performed by the contestants usually fall in the Folk music, then pop and sometimes rock.\n\nThose picked at the auditions get a chance to showcase their skills by singing in front of the judging panel on televised broadcasts over the next few months. The show is consisted of six rounds, while in each round the number of remaining contestants is reducing. In the first round judges are enabled to see the contestants and are deciding exclusively based on their vocal abilities. Later on contestants are also judged by their stage presence and appearance. Finalists then sing live in big arenas such as the Belgrade Arena or Zetra Olympic Hall, Sarajevo or in the television studio and the results are based on the public vote or the judges. The winners are awarded with record label contract with Grand Production, an album or single and a music video, and material prize in form of a car or an apartment. I the 13th season judges are mentors selecting a team of singers whose assets they believe will allow them to win the competition. Each jury member has a professional team of people from the music industry by their choice helping their contestants with vocal performance and stage appearances.\n\nThe production jury, consisted of the show's creator, founder and CEO of Grand Production, Saša Popović and music icon Lepa Brena, can put a contestant through to the next round even without receiving any votes from the judges. Lepa Brena later withdrew from the show and Snežana Đurišić, a folk singer with more than 40 years of career, filled her spot.\n\nThe 2013 panel was consisted of folk musicians Šaban Šaulić, dubbed the \"King of Folk\"; Zorica Brunclik, who has sold 15 million records; Aca Lukas, arguably the most popular Serbian pop-folk singer, and Dragan Stojković 'Bosanac', famous accordion player and musician. Ana Bekuta joined the show in the following year, while Brunclik left a year later to join \"Pinkove Zvezde\", also a singing contest. Jelena Karleuša and Marija Šerifović were brought in 2015, due to their popularity and success in pop music. Same year, following the highly viewed argument with Karleuša in one of the episodes, pop-folk star of the 2000s, Viki Miljković, perviously a guest judge, was made a permanent one. Šaulić, for same reasons like Brunclik, left the show in 2016. Since the 11th season there has also been a secret judge, most of the time a well known person from the show business, who's identity is kept secret for other judges and contestants. Former member of the metal band Generacija 5, Đrorđe David was signed in 2018 to bring variety as a rock musician. Same year, Lukas left the show due to personal reasons.\n\nTo date, 13 series have been broadcast, as summarised below.<br>\n"}
