{"id": "8810504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8810504", "title": "Academy at Dundee Ranch", "text": "Academy at Dundee Ranch\n\nAcademy at Dundee Ranch was a behavior modification facility for United States teenagers, located on La Ceiba Cascajal, west of Orotina, province of Alajuela, Costa Rica. It was promoted as a residential school, offering a program of behavior modification, motivational \"emotional growth seminars,\" a progressive academic curriculum, and a structured daily schedule, for teenagers struggling in their homes, schools, or communities.\n\nThe facility was associated with World Wide Association of Specialty Programs and Schools (WWASP).\n\nIn May 2003, authorities in Costa Rica shut down due to claims of child abuse, and investigated the school and its managers. A new WWASP facility called Pillars of Hope was opened at the site of Academy at Dundee Ranch in 2004. It is also marketed as Seneca Ranch Second Chance Youth Ranch.\n\nDuring its operation, Dundee Ranch was the subject of multiple allegations of abuse. Parents and enrollees claimed that food being withheld as punishment. Former students complained of emotional scars due to their stay there.\n\nA judgment in Louisiana caused Costa Rican authorities to investigate the facilities. A riot occurred at the facility in May 2003 leading to its closure. The Costa Rican immigration authorities found that 100 of the 193 children enrolled in the program did not have appropriate migration papers.\n\nDue to the closure U.S. Representative George Miller asked U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft to investigate WWASP.\n\nNarvin Lichfield, who was the director at the time of the facility's closure, was jailed in Costa Rica for a brief period at the time of the closure. He was later tried in Costa Rica on charges of coercion, holding minors against their will, and \"crimes of an international character\" (violating a law based on international treaties, specifically referring to torture).\n\nOn February 21, 2007 a three-judge panel found Narvin Lichfield innocent of the charges of abuse. During the trial the prosecutor told the court that there was insufficient evidence and testimony to link Lichfield to the crimes for which he was accused. \"The Tico Times\" reported that the judges said they believed the students at Dundee had been abused, but there was no proof that Lichfield ordered the abuse. Three other Academy employees, all Jamaicans, had been wanted in connection with the same case, but they fled Costa Rica following the closure of the Academy.\n\nFollowing the acquittal, Lichfield claimed in an e-mail to \"A.M. Costa Rica\" that when the school was raided, police stood by and watched youths sexually assault each other, that police held parents and staff at gunpoint and that one parent was ordered at gunpoint to hang up the phone when she attempted to phone the U.S. Embassy for help, and that police left the school in a shambles.\n\n"}
{"id": "30873725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30873725", "title": "Adult learner", "text": "Adult learner\n\nAn adult learner (North America) or mature student (UK) (sometimes also called adult student, returning adult, and adult returner) is a person who is 25 years and up who is involved in forms of learning. Adult learners fall in a specific criteria of being experienced, and do not have the high school diploma. Many of the adult learners go back to school to finish a degree, or earn a new one.\n\nMalcolm Knowles's work distinguished adult learners as distinct from adolescent and child learners in his principle of andragogy. He established 5 assumptions about the adult learner. This included self-concept, adult learner experience, readiness to learn, orientation to learning, and motivation to learning.\n\nIn the US, adult learners fall into the category of nontraditional students, whom the National Center for Education Statistics defines as meeting at least one of the following seven criteria:\n\nNot all nontraditional students are adult learners, as the term refers to the brain development of the person, but adult learners are considered nontraditional students. This can be due to the wide range of cultural, job, and educational backgrounds.\n\nIn the UK, a student is normally classified as a mature student if he or she is an (undergraduate) student who is at least 25+ years old at the start of his or her course, or in the Irish case on the first of January of the year of entry, and usually having been away from school for at least two years. The normal entry requirements for school-leavers wishing to start an undergraduate degree are often not applied to mature students. \n\nAdult students are frequently referred to as nontraditional students in higher education. Adult students are contrasted with traditional students, who are typically aged 18–22, attend full-time, live on campus, do not work, and have few, if any, family responsibilities. In 2008, 36 percent of postsecondary students were age 25 or older and 47 percent were independent students.\n\nAs opposed to a child or adolescent, adult learners typically have more life experience and their brains are more fully developed. When confronted with new knowledge or an experience, adult learners construe new meaning based on their life experiences and their more developed brains process these experiences differently than someone with a less developed brain (children and adolescents).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28065339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28065339", "title": "Ani Kyd", "text": "Ani Kyd\n\nAni Kyd (born September 15, 1969) is a Vancouver musician, actor, and life coach.\n\nKyd has worked with musicians including Meegan Bradfield (Limblifter), Lisa Wagner (Cello player for Moist), Gene Hoglan (Strapping Young Lad) and Byron Stroud (Fear Factory). Ani has played guitar for the legendary THOR as well as having Jello Biafra produce and perform back up vocals for her debut cd \"Evil Needs Candy Too\" which was released on Alternative Tentacles in 2005. From 2005 to 2007 she sang in the 2 lead singer metal/rock band \"Approach The Throne\" with Chris \"Val\" Valagao (Zimmers Hole) as the other singer.Throughout Ani's professional career she has sung back up vocals for Paul Hyde, Sandy Scofield, Strapping Young Lad(on the album \"Alien\") and the Devin Townsend Band. She has also been on various compilations including Trooper tribute and a Green Party cd featuring Bruce Cockburn and Bill Henderson, Joe Keithley (D.O.A.) and Bif Naked. she was nominated for favourite local female in the Georgia Straight Music Awards 2000. She acted alongside Jello Biafra in the movie The Widower. She's played shows with Our Lady Peace, Bif Naked, Paul Hyde, Strapping Young Lad, DOA, the Melvins and Jello Biafra. Performed approximately 500 live shows from 1986 to 2010 including November 29, 2003 at the Pacific Coliseum Vancouver B.C with THOR and D.O.A. May 1, 2004 at BC Place, Vancouver for (Slam City Jam)\nAni has been a member of over 12 bands from 1986 to 2010 She has done four major Canadian and US tours including a 40-city tour playing guitar for Thor. \nAni was turned into a cartoon character in the Futurama/Simpsons comic - issue #2 of 2, 2002, \"Infinitely Secret Crossover Crisis\" page 2\n\nEvil Needs Candy Too (Alternative Tentacles 2005)\n\n\nAni Kyd Blues Experience (Independent 2009)\n\n\nGrrrls with Guitars Compilation Volume 1 (1999) Grrrls with Guitars Records also featuring Kinnie Starr, Sandy Scofield\n\nShot Spots (2001) on Visionary Records. A Trooper tribute album also featuring DOA, Real McKenzies, SNFU \n\nThe Green Revolution (2004) also featuring Jello Biafra, Randy Bachman, Bruce Cockburn, Bif Naked, and Joe Keithley \n\nSandy Scofield \"Dirty River\"(1994) Independent back-up vocals on \"Big House\"\n\nPaul Hyde \"Turtle Island\" back-up vocals on \"Love Is All\", and \"Happy Train\"\n\nStrapping Young Lad \"Alien\" and \"Strapping Young Lad\"\n\nJello Biafra And The Guantanamo School Of Medicine \"The Audacity Of Hype\" back-up vocals on \"Pets Eat Their Masters\", \"Electronic Plantation\"\n"}
{"id": "46929748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46929748", "title": "Anna Zofia Krygowska", "text": "Anna Zofia Krygowska\n\nAnna Zofia Krygowska (1904–1988) was a Polish mathematician, known for her work in mathematics education.\n\nKrygowska was born in Lwów, at that time the capital of Austrian Poland, on 19 September 1904. She grew up in Zakopane, and went to the Jagiellonian University in Kraków, where she finished her studies in mathematics in 1927. From 1927 to 1950 she was a primary and secondary school mathematics teacher in Poland, including a time spent underground during World War II. In 1950 she earned a doctorate from the Jagiellonian University, under the supervision of Tadeusz Ważewski, and joined the faculty of the Pedagogical University of Kraków. In 1958 she was promoted to head of the newly formed Department of Didactics of Mathematics. She retired in 1974.\n\nKrygowska was an active participant in national and international groups concerning the teaching of mathematics. In 1956 she was part of the Polish delegation to the UNESCO conference of ministers of public education, and organized two conferences of the International Commission for the Study and Improvement of Mathematics Teaching (CIEAEM), in 1960 and 1971; she became president of CIEAEM in 1970, and honorary president in 1974. She also spoke on mathematics education at the International Congress of Mathematicians in 1966 and 1970.\n\nShe died on May 16, 1988.\n"}
{"id": "24101196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24101196", "title": "Arts &amp; Business Council of New York", "text": "Arts &amp; Business Council of New York\n\nThe Arts & Business Council of New York (ABC/NY), also known as Arts & Business Council, Inc., is a nonprofit organization whose mission is to develop more creative partnerships between the arts and business communities in New York, enhancing the business skills of the arts sector and the creative engagement of the business sector. ABC/NY accomplishes this mission through programming in volunteer development, professional development, and leadership development. ABC/NY, now a division of the national service organization Americans for the Arts, was formed in 1965 to join the resources of New York City’s arts and business communities in order to strengthen both sectors.\n\nABC/NY serves arts organizations of all disciplines (arts education, dance, design, film, literature, media, museums, music, theater, visual arts, etc.) and sizes (annual operating budgets of less than $100,000 to greater than $100 million), as well as businesses of all sizes across industry sectors, throughout the five boroughs of New York City and, when possible, throughout New York State.\n\nABC/NY’s programs and services draw on business-based skills, knowledge, and relationships to strengthen the management capacity and infrastructure of arts organizations. Activities include programs in volunteer development, professional development, and leadership development.\n\nBusiness Volunteers for the Arts (BVA) places businessmen and women with expertise in areas such as strategic planning, marketing, finance, IT, and human resources, as pro bono management consultants with nonprofit arts groups. ABC/NY staff recruit, interview, train, and match BVAs with organizations where each volunteer’s skills and interests will be of greatest use. The scope of each assignment is co-determined by the volunteer and the organization. Projects may be simple, such as editing marketing materials or reviewing a contract or lease, or more complex, such as creating a financial reporting system, helping develop a debt recovery package, or assisting with strategic planning.\n\nArts Board Recruitment/Training strengthens the leadership capacity of nonprofit arts organizations. Potential board members are trained in governance, fiscal management, fundraising, and advocacy. This program also provides board development workshops for arts organizations, and ABC/NY staff interview and work with each arts organization to ensure it is prepared to effectively utilize its board members. As with the project-based BVA placements, ABC/NY is a matchmaker, introducing business people to arts organizations—for the benefit of both.\n\nThe Multicultural Arts Management Internship program promotes diversity in administrative staffing, introducing undergraduates to career options with a business focus in the arts. Each year, a select group of students—with an emphasis on people of African-American, Asian-American, and Latino/a backgrounds—is matched with New York City arts organizations to complete summer-long, project-based internships in a variety of disciplines. Each intern is also paired with a mentor from the business community who has a passion for and involvement in the arts and who can provide additional career guidance and perspective.\n\nEmerging Leaders of New York Arts (ELNYA), introduced in fall 2007, is the New York branch of a nationwide program that targets arts professionals under 35 or with less than five years’ experience in the field. ELNYA provides these young professionals with opportunities to develop the contacts, skills, and knowledge they need to advance to senior leadership positions. This program offers social, professional development, and networking events, such as group discussions, panel Q&A, and an arts management book club, each planned and implemented by members. ELNYA’s emphasis on hands-on leadership leads to empowered arts administrators who will engage and advance the field with creative problem solving and sustainable management practices.\n\nThe Arts Leadership Institute (ALI) offers executive education for mid-career arts managers who seek to succeed to and succeed in nonprofit arts executive director positions. ALI provides both technical management skill building(e.g. budgeting, planning, fundraising, and board development) and personal leadership development (self-assessment, communications, delegation, decision-making, and time management).\n\nABC/NY helps arts organizations and individual artists to develop new audiences and earned income through a series of arts-specific marketing workshops on topics including branding, sponsorship, electronic communications, market research, and audience development and retention. These are complemented with a comprehensive marketing website created by national staff, and an annual national conference. ABC/NY also offers practical training for arts managers, business volunteers, and nonprofit arts board members in areas such as budgeting and financial analysis, fundraising, and human resources. In 2010, several Arts & Business Council professional development workshops were in partnership with The Foundation Center and the Financial Women's Association.\n\nFrom 2000-2009, with the support of the New York State Council on the Arts, ABC/NY's Cultural Tourism Initiative provided funding and technical assistance to 93 grantees statewide to support partnership-based projects that joined the arts community with travel, tourism, retail, and hospitality organizations to attract new visitors to, and stimulate economic development in, regions throughout the state and in neighborhoods in New York City outside of midtown Manhattan.\n\nIn 2010, ABC/NY established a partnership with the Harlem Arts Alliance to promote cultural tourism and economic development in Harlem. Promotions that combine arts and business offerings are offered weekly.\n\nThe annual Encore Awards of the Arts & Business Council of New York celebrate success in all four of these programmatic areas. The Awards honor arts and business partnerships, creative business volunteers, and excellence in arts management; and the annual celebration is a major networking opportunity for New York’s arts and business communities.\n\n"}
{"id": "49868268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49868268", "title": "Athena Fund", "text": "Athena Fund\n\nAthena Fund is a non-profit organization established in 2006. Its mission is to empower teachers in Israel by providing them with tools for self-fulfillment and professional advancement. The Fund was founded by business leaders under the direction of Uri Ben-Ari (CEO of UBA Ventures and former Executive VP of Ness Technologies).\n\nIntroduced in 2007, Athena Fund's flagship initiative is the \"Laptop Computer for Every Teacher in Israel\" program. Launched with the support of Israel's Prime Minister's Office, the program has been implemented in collaboration with the Israeli Ministry of Education, the Israel Teachers Union, and Bank Massad, an Israeli bank that specializes in providing banking services to teachers.\n\nSince 2012, Athena Fund has launched three additional programs in Israel: “Laptop Computer for Every Kindergarten Teacher” (2012); “Tablet for Every Science Teacher” (2014); and “iPad for Every Special-Education Teacher” (2015). \n\nThe mission of the Laptop Computer for Every Teacher in Israel program (launched in 2007) is to empower teachers, enhance their access to the digital world, and raise their social status. The goal of the program is to provide a laptop computer and 120 hours of professional training to each and every elementary, middle and high school teacher in Israel by year-end 2018.\n\nEach participating teacher receives a laptop computer with a protective case, a full set of Microsoft software, a 3-year warranty, 24/7 support, and a 120-hour professional training course.\n\nThe Laptop for Every Kindergarten Teacher program (launched 2012) aims to enhance teachers' status and increase accessibility to the digital environment.\n\nThe program trains teachers to use computers for different purposes and helps bring innovative teaching methods to kindergarten classrooms. Kindergarten computer use helps develop independent learning and promotes children's emotional, social and cognitive development.\n\nEach participating teacher receives a laptop computer with a protective case, a full set of Microsoft software, a 3-year warranty, 24/7 support, and a 120-hour professional training course.\n\nThe Tablet for Every Science Teacher program (launched 2014) aims to empower science and technology teachers, and help them make each class more enjoyable and productive by using innovative technological means for teaching.\n\nEach participating teacher receives a GlobiMate Tablet from Globisens. This tablet comes with built-in multiple sensors and a microscope.In addition, the teacher receives a 1-year warranty, 24/7 support, and a 120-hour professional training course.\n\nThe iPad for Every Special-Education Teacher in Israel program (launched 2015) aims to enable special-education students to engage in meaningful learning, strengthening the students’ enjoyment and motivation, and improving interpersonal communication. Each participating teacher receives an iPad tablet, a 3-year warranty, 24/7 support, and a 120-hour professional training course. Parents to teens with special needs say that the iPad enables the children, even those who had never before communicated with their parents and their environment, to interact with their surroundings in a most exciting manner. \n\nAs of December 31, 2015, the Laptop Computer for Every Teacher in Israel program has provided laptops and professional training to over 12,000 teachers in 503 cities and small communities in 1,104 schools and kindergartens. The Laptop for Every Kindergarten Teacher program (launched 2012) has provided laptops and professional training to 486 kindergarten teachers in Israel. The einstein Tablet+ for Every Science Teacher program (launched 2014) has provided tablets and professional training to 856 science and technology teachers in Israel. The iPad for Every Special-Education Teacher program (launched 2015) has provided tablet computers and professional training to 247 special-education teachers in Israel.\n\nThe Laptop Computer for Every Teacher in Israel program, Athena Fund’s first program, was launched in 2007 with the sponsorship of the Prime Minister's Office. Today, Athena Fund’s programs are implemented with the cooperation of the Israeli Ministry of Education, the Fund for Professional Advancement of the Israel Teachers Union, and Bank Massad, which specializes in providing banking services to teachers.\n\nThe program is supported by an Advisory Board of Israeli business, political and academic leaders including:\n\nThe results of a survey conducted among 300 participating teachers in the Negev (southern Israel) in June 2008 indicated a substantial improvement in teacher and student performance. 75% of the teachers reported that as a result of using a laptop computer, their teaching effectiveness improved and student interest increased. Moreover, 35% of the teachers noted a significant decrease in classroom disciplinary problems.\n\nIn another survey conducted in 2011 (in various schools), 99% of the participants reported an improvement in their status in the classroom. Moreover, classroom disruptions decreased by 35%.\nIn a survey conducted in 2014 (in youth villages), 61% of teachers said that the laptop greatly helped improve teaching processes, and 62% said that it greatly helped update the teacher’s knowledge in work-related areas. 47% said that using the laptop in the classroom greatly contributed to more efficient use of classroom teaching time, and participation in the program greatly helped implement new teaching methods in the classroom. 48% stated that students' interest in the lesson topics greatly increased as a result of laptop use.\n"}
{"id": "44961751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44961751", "title": "Beckman Fellow", "text": "Beckman Fellow\n\nA Beckman Fellow receives funding, usually via an intermediary institution, from the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation, founded by Arnold Orville Beckman and his wife Mabel. The Foundation supports programs at several institutions to encourage research, particularly the work of young researchers who might not be eligible for other sources of funding. People from a variety of different programs at different institutions may therefore be referred to as Beckman Fellows. Though most often designating postdoctoral awards in science, the exact significance of the term will vary depending on the institution involved and the type(s) of Beckman Fellowship awarded at that institution.\n\nThe Arnold O. Beckman Postdoctoral Fellowship program was sponsored by the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation to support research at US institutions in the biological and chemical sciences. A total of sixty Fellowships were awarded from 2015 – 2017. After an evaluation in 2018, the Foundation then relaunched the program for 2019 as the Arnold O. Beckman Postdoctoral Fellowship in Chemical Sciences or Chemical Instrumentation . The purpose of the program is to support advanced research by postdoctoral scholars in fundamental chemistry research or the development of chemical instrumentation. \n\nThe Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign offers a variety of fellowship programs.\n\nBeckman Graduate Fellowships are awarded to students at the University of Illinois who are working at the master's or doctorate level. Students propose interdisciplinary research projects involving at least two University of Illinois faculty members, at least one of whom is associated with the Beckman Institute. The award provides funding at the level of a 50% Graduate Research Assistantship for eleven months.\n\nBeckman Postdoctoral Fellowships are awarded to recent Ph.D.'s who receive 3-year appointments at the Beckman Institute, including both a stipend and a research budget. They must be doing interdisciplinary research in an area of research relevant to the Beckman Institute. The first Beckman postdoctoral fellows were Efrat Shimshoni (condensed matter physics) and Andrew Nobel (information theory and statistics) in 1992.\n\nSince the founding of the original Beckman Institute Postdoctoral Fellows Program, two similar programs have been initiated: the Carle Foundation Hospital-Beckman Institute Postdoctoral Fellows Program (begun in 2008 and jointly funded by the Carle Foundation Hospital of Urbana, Illinois) and the Beckman-Brown Interdisciplinary Postdoctoral Fellowship (begun in 2015 by an endowment from the Arnold O. and Mabel M. Beckman Foundation made in honor of Theodore L. Brown, founding director of the Beckman Institute). \n\nThe following researchers are or have been Beckman Postdoctoral Fellows. The institution listed is the one from which the person had received a Ph.D. Fellowships were awarded as of the year listed.\n\nBeckman Senior Fellowships are awarded to senior faculty from other institutions, who come to the University of Illinois to collaborate with researchers there, usually for a short period of three to six months.\nBeckman Senior Fellows include:\n\n\nIn addition to the Beckman Fellowships administered through the Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology, the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation supports additional programs through the Center for Advanced Study (CAS) at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. The CAS awards a series of Beckman Fellowships and Beckman Research Awards which support faculty at Urbana-Champaign in their research activities. These awards were funded through an endowment from Arnold and Mabel Beckman, given in the late 1970's, prior to the establishment of the Beckman Institute. They are administered separately and are awarded in departments throughout the university, not just within the sciences.\n\nThe Center for Advanced Study (CAS) has awarded Beckman Fellowships to the following University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign faculty members , with their home department and Fellowship award year shown.\n\nThe Beckman Center for Molecular and Genetic Medicine in the Stanford School of Medicine was funded in part by $12 million from the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation, approximately one-fifth of the costs for the new center. It opened in May 1989. The Beckman Fellows program was established in 1999 to support young researchers. Recipients include:\n\n\nIn 2000, the Beckman Institute at Caltech in Pasadena received a grant from the Beckman Foundation to support Beckman Postgraduate Fellowships for five years. Fellowships were for a three year period. The following people have been recipients:\n\nThe Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation supported construction of The Gavin Herbert Eye Institute at the University of California, Irvine School of Medicine. The facility is designed specifically for ease of use by low-vision patients. The institute opened in 2013, and as of Feb. 12, 2013, was awarded a grant for fellowships by the Beckman Foundation.\n"}
{"id": "31139872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31139872", "title": "Bombshells (House)", "text": "Bombshells (House)\n\n\"Bombshells\" is the fifteenth episode of the seventh season of the American medical drama series \"House\". It aired on March 7, 2011.\n\nA teenager is admitted to the hospital after spitting up blood. Taub also discovers that the boy has been depressed and appears to have been cutting himself. More concern arises when the team breaks into the boy's house and finds his school yearbook with his classmates' faces crossed out and threatening words written about the school, and when Taub checks the contents of the boy's flash drive, he finds disturbing videos of him blowing up homemade pipe bombs and appearing to show misanthropic and sociopathic tendencies.\n\nIt is discovered that a piece of one of the bombs ended up lodged in his system, and the foreign material is what has caused his various medical maladies. Taub, however, is torn between sending the videos to the authorities throughout the case, but in the end, decides to mail the flash drive to the police.\n\nMeanwhile, Cuddy finds blood in her urine and undergoes tests for possible kidney cancer, while House grapples with emotionally supporting her, avoiding her, and denying that she is actually sick. Cuddy goes through several dreams while hospitalized before her kidney problems were found to be a benign tumor.\n\nAfter speaking with her sister, Cuddy realizes that when House came to see her during her illness, he was under the influence of Vicodin. Realizing that he is unable to open up completely and share the pain that she considers to be part of any meaningful relationship, she ends their relationship.\n\nThe episode is concluded with a scene that echoes the last scene of the previous season's finale (\"Help Me\"): House is sitting on his bathroom floor with a bottle of Vicodin in his hand. He expectantly looks at the doorway. Resigned, and with no Cuddy to save him, he takes the pills.\n\nCuddy's dream sequences includes a parody of the CBS sitcom \"Two and a Half Men\", while another recreates the final scene in \"Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid\" with House and Cuddy in the roles of Butch and Sundance. The final dream is a stylized version of \"Get Happy\" starring House in a large musical production.\n\nZack Handlen of \"The A.V. Club\" gave this episode a B+ rating, praising \"Bombshells\" despite the campy dream sequences.\n\n"}
{"id": "52669302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52669302", "title": "Committee for Mammal Names", "text": "Committee for Mammal Names\n\nThe Committee for Mammal Names () is a working group which develops mammals names in Finnish-language.\n"}
{"id": "20757984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20757984", "title": "Conformity", "text": "Conformity\n\nConformity is the act of matching attitudes, beliefs, and behaviors to group norms. Norms are implicit, specific rules, shared by a group of individuals, that guide their interactions with others. People often choose to conform to society rather than to pursue personal desires because it is often easier to follow the path others have made already, rather than creating a new one. This tendency to conform occurs in small groups and/or society as a whole, and may result from subtle unconscious influences, or direct and overt social pressure. Conformity can occur in the presence of others, or when an individual is alone. For example, people tend to follow social norms when eating or watching television, even when alone.\n\nPeople often conform from a desire for security within a group—typically a group of a similar age, culture, religion, or educational status. This is often referred to as groupthink: a pattern of thought characterized by self-deception, forced manufacture of consent, and conformity to group values and ethics, which ignores realistic appraisal of other courses of action. Unwillingness to conform carries the risk of social rejection. Conformity is often associated with adolescence and youth culture, but strongly affects humans of all ages.\n\nAlthough peer pressure may manifest negatively, conformity can be regarded as either good or bad. Driving on the correct side of the road could be seen as beneficial conformity. With the right environmental influence, conforming, in early childhood years, allows one to learn and thus, adopt the appropriate behaviours necessary to interact and develop correctly within one's society. Conformity influences formation and maintenance of social norms, and helps societies function smoothly and predictably via the self-elimination of behaviors seen as contrary to unwritten rules. In this sense it can be perceived as a positive force that prevents acts that are perceptually disruptive or dangerous.\n\nAs conformity is a group phenomenon, factors such as group size, unanimity, cohesion, status, prior commitment and public opinion help determine the level of conformity an individual displays.\n\nSome adolescents gain acceptance and recognition from their peers by conformity.\nThis peer moderated conformity increases from the transition of childhood to adolescence.\n\nAccording to Donelson Forsyth, after submitting to group pressures, individuals may find themselves facing one of several responses to conformity. These types of responses to conformity vary in their degree of public agreement versus private agreement.\n\nWhen an individual finds themselves in a position where they publicly agree with the group's decision yet privately disagrees with the group's consensus, they are experiencing \"compliance\" or \"acquiescence\". In turn, \"conversion\", otherwise known as \"private acceptance\", involves both publicly and privately agreeing with the group's decision. Thus, this represents a true change of opinion to match the majority.\n\nAnother type of social response, which does not involve conformity with the majority of the group, is called \"convergence\". In this type of social response, the group member agrees with the group's decision from the outset and thus does not need to shift their opinion on the matter at hand.\n\nIn addition, Forsyth shows that nonconformity can also fall into one of two response categories. Firstly, an individual who does not conform to the majority can display \"independence\". \"Independence\", or \"dissent\", can be defined as the unwillingness to bend to group pressures. Thus, this individual stays true to his or her personal standards instead of the swaying toward group standards. Secondly, a nonconformist could be displaying \"anticonformity\" or \"counterconformity\" which involves the taking of opinions that are opposite to what the group believes. This type of nonconformity can be motivated by a need to rebel against the status quo instead of the need to be accurate in one's opinion.\n\nTo conclude, social responses to conformity can be seen to vary along a continuum from conversion to anticonformity. For example, a popular experiment in conformity research, known as the \"Asch situation\" or Asch conformity experiments, primarily includes \"compliance\" and \"independence\". Also, other responses to conformity can be identified in groups such as juries, sports teams and work teams.\n\nMuzafer Sherif was interested in knowing how many people would change their opinions to bring them in line with the opinion of a group. In his experiment, participants were placed in a dark room and asked to stare at a small dot of light 15 feet away. They were then asked to estimate the amount it moved. The trick was there was no movement, it was caused by a visual illusion known as the autokinetic effect. On the first day, each person perceived different amounts of movement, but from the second to the fourth day, the same estimate was agreed on and others conformed to it. Sherif suggested this was a simulation for how social norms develop in a society, providing a common frame of reference for people.\n\nSubsequent experiments were based on more realistic situations. In an eyewitness identification task, participants were shown a suspect individually and then in a lineup of other suspects. They were given one second to identify him, making it a difficult task. One group was told that their input was very important and would be used by the legal community. To the other it was simply a trial. Being more motivated to get the right answer increased the tendency to conform. Those who wanted to be more accurate conformed 51% of the time as opposed to 35% in the other group.\n\nSolomon E. Asch conducted a modification of Sherif’s study, assuming that when the situation was very clear, conformity would be drastically reduced. He exposed people in a group to a series of lines, and the participants were asked to match one line with a standard line. All participants except one were accomplices and gave the wrong answer in 12 of the 18 trials.\n\nThe results showed a surprisingly high degree of conformity: 74% of the participants conformed on at least one trial. On average people conformed one third of the time. A question is how the group would affect individuals in a situation where the correct answer is less obvious.\n\nAfter his first test, Asch wanted to investigate whether the size or unanimity of the majority had greater influence on test subjects.\n\"Which aspect of the influence of a majority is more important – the size of the majority or its unanimity? The experiment was modified to examine this question. In one series the size of the opposition was varied from one to 15 persons.\" The results clearly showed that as more people opposed the subject, the subject became more likely to conform. However, the increasing majority was only influential up to a point: from three or more opponents, there is more than 30% of conformity.\n\nHarvard psychologist Herbert Kelman identified three major types of conformity.\n\nAlthough Kelman's distinction has been influential, research in social psychology has focused primarily on two varieties of conformity. These are \"informational\" conformity, or informational social influence, and \"normative\" conformity, also called normative social influence. In Kelman's terminology, these correspond to internalization and compliance, respectively. There are naturally more than two or three variables in society influential on human psychology and conformity; the notion of \"varieties\" of conformity based upon \"social influence\" is ambiguous and indefinable in this context.\n\nFor Deutsch and Gérard (1955), conformity results from a motivational conflict (between the fear of being socially rejected and the wish to say what we think is correct) that leads to the normative influence, and a cognitive conflict (others create doubts in what we think) which leads to the informational influence.\n\nInformational social influence occurs when one turns to the members of one's group to obtain and accept accurate information about reality. A person is most likely to use informational social influence in certain situations: when a situation is ambiguous, people become uncertain about what to do and they are more likely to depend on others for the answer; and during a crisis when immediate action is necessary, in spite of panic. Looking to other people can help ease fears, but unfortunately they are not always right. The more knowledgeable a person is, the more valuable they are as a resource. Thus people often turn to experts for help. But once again people must be careful, as experts can make mistakes too. Informational social influence often results in \"internalization\" or \"private acceptance\", where a person genuinely believes that the information is right.\n\nNormative social influence occurs when one conforms to be liked or accepted by the members of the group. This need of social approval and acceptance is part of our state of humans. In addition to this, we know that when people do not conform with their group and therefore are deviants, they are less liked and even punished by the group. Normative influence usually results in \"public compliance\", doing or saying something without believing in it. The experiment of Asch in 1951 is one example of normative influence.\n\nIn a reinterpretation of the original data from these experiments Hodges and Geyer (2006) found that Asch's subjects were not so conformist after all: The experiments provide powerful evidence for people's tendency to tell the truth even when others do not. They also provide compelling evidence of people's concern for others and their views.\nBy closely examining the situation in which Asch's subjects find themselves they find that the situation places multiple demands on participants: They include truth (i.e., expressing one's own view accurately), trust (i.e., taking seriously the value of others' claims), and social solidarity (i.e., a commitment to integrate the views of self and others without deprecating either). In addition to these epistemic values, there are multiple moral claims as well: These include the need for participants to care for the integrity and well-being of other participants, the experimenter, themselves, and the worth of scientific research.\n\nDeutsch & Gérard (1955) designed different situations that variated from Asch' experiment and found that when participants were writing their answer privately, they were giving the correct one\n\nNormative influence, a function of social impact theory, has three components. The \"number of people\" in the group has a surprising effect. As the number increases, each person has less of an impact. A group's \"strength\" is how important the group is to a person. Groups we value generally have more social influence. \"Immediacy\" is how close the group is in time and space when the influence is taking place. Psychologists have constructed a mathematical model using these three factors and are able to predict the amount of conformity that occurs with some degree of accuracy.\n\nBaron and his colleagues conducted a second \"eyewitness study\" that focused on normative influence. In this version, the task was easier. Each participant had five seconds to look at a slide instead of just one second. Once again, there were both high and low motives to be accurate, but the results were the reverse of the first study. The low motivation group conformed 33% of the time (similar to Asch's findings). The high motivation group conformed less at 16%. These results show that when accuracy is not very important, it is better to get the wrong answer than to risk social disapproval.\n\nAn experiment using procedures similar to Asch's found that there was significantly less conformity in six-person groups of friends as compared to six-person groups of strangers. Because friends already know and accept each other, there may be less normative pressure to conform in some situations. Field studies on cigarette and alcohol abuse, however, generally demonstrate evidence of friends exerting normative social influence on each other.\n\nAlthough conformity generally leads individuals to think and act more like groups, individuals are occasionally able to reverse this tendency and change the people around them. This is known as \"minority influence\", a special case of informational influence. Minority influence is most likely when people can make a clear and consistent case for their point of view. If the minority fluctuates and shows uncertainty, the chance of influence is small. However, a minority that makes a strong, convincing case increases the probability of changing the majority's beliefs and behaviors. Minority members who are perceived as experts, are high in status, or have benefited the group in the past are also more likely to succeed.\n\nAnother form of minority influence can sometimes override conformity effects and lead to unhealthy group dynamics. A 2007 review of two dozen studies by the University of Washington found that a single \"bad apple\" (an inconsiderate or negligent group member) can substantially increase conflicts and reduce performance in work groups. Bad apples often create a negative emotional climate that interferes with healthy group functioning. They can be avoided by careful selection procedures and managed by reassigning them to positions that require less social interaction.\n\nStanley Milgram found that individuals in Norway (from a collectivistic culture) exhibited a higher degree of conformity than individuals in France (from an individualistic culture). Similarly, Berry studied two different populations: the Temne (collectivists) and the Inuit (individualists) and found that the Temne conformed more than the Inuit when exposed to a conformity task.\n\nBond and Smith compared 134 studies in a meta-analysis and found that there is a positive correlation between a country's level of collectivistic values and conformity rates in the Asch paradigm. Bond and Smith also reported that conformity has declined in the United States over time.\n\nInfluenced by the writings of late-19th- and early-20th-century Western travelers, scholars or diplomats who visited Japan, such as Basil Hall Chamberlain, George Trumbull Ladd and Percival Lowell, as well as by Ruth Benedict's influential book \"The Chrysanthemum and the Sword\", many scholars of Japanese studies speculated that there would be a higher propensity to conform in Japanese culture than in American culture. However, this view was not formed on the basis of empirical evidence collected in a systematic way, but rather on the basis of anecdotes and casual observations, which are subject to a variety of cognitive biases. Modern scientific studies comparing conformity in Japan and the United States show that Americans conform in general as much than the Japanese and, in some situations, even more. Psychology professor from the University of Tokyo, along with Eiko Osaka reviewed four behavioral studies and found that the rate of conformity errors that the Japanese subjects manifested in the Asch paradigm was similar with that manifested by Americans. The study published in 1970 by Robert Frager from the University of California, Santa Cruz found that the percentage of conformity errors within Asch paradigm was significantly lower in Japan than in the United States, especially in the prize condition. Another study published in 2008, which compared the level of conformity among Japanese in-groups (peers from the same college clubs) with that found among Americans found no substantial difference in the level of conformity manifested by the two nations, even in the case of in-groups.\n\nSocietal norms often establish gender differences and researchers have reported differences in the way men and women conform to social influence. For example, Alice Eagly and Linda Carli performed a meta-analysis of 148 studies of influenceability. They found that women are more persuadable and more conforming than men in group pressure situations that involve surveillance. Eagly has proposed that this sex difference may be due to different sex roles in society. Women are generally taught to be more agreeable whereas men are taught to be more independent.\n\nThe composition of the group plays a role in conformity as well. In a study by Reitan and Shaw, it was found that men and women conformed more when there were participants of both sexes involved versus participants of the same sex. Subjects in the groups with both sexes were more apprehensive when there was a discrepancy amongst group members, and thus the subjects reported that they doubted their own judgments.\nSistrunk and McDavid made the argument that women conformed more because of a methodological bias. They argued that because stereotypes used in studies are generally male ones (sports, cars..) more than female ones (cooking, fashion..), women are feeling uncertain and conformed more, which was confirmed by their results.\n\nResearch has noted age differences in conformity. For example, research with Australian children and adolescents ages 3 to 17 discovered that conformity decreases with age. Another study examined individuals that were ranged from ages 18 to 91. The results revealed a similar trend – older participants displayed less conformity when compared to younger participants.\n\nIn the same way that gender has been viewed as corresponding to status, age has also been argued to have status implications. Berger, Rosenholtz and Zelditch suggest that age as a status role can be observed among college students. Younger students, such as those in their first year in college, are treated as lower-status individuals and older college students are treated as higher-status individuals. Therefore, given these status roles, it would be expected that younger individuals (low status) conform to the majority whereas older individuals (high status) would be expected not to conform \n\nResearchers have also reported an interaction of gender and age on conformity. Eagly and Chrvala examined the role of age (under 19 years vs. 19 years and older), gender and surveillance (anticipating responses to be shared with group members vs. not anticipating responses being shared) on conformity to group opinions. They discovered that among participants that were 19 years or older, females conformed to group opinions more so than males when under surveillance (i.e., anticipated that their responses would be shared with group members). However, there were no gender differences in conformity among participants who were under 19 years of age and in surveillance conditions. There were also no gender differences when participants were not under surveillance. In a subsequent research article, Eagly suggests that women are more likely to conform than men because of lower status roles of women in society. She suggests that more submissive roles (i.e., conforming) are expected of individuals that hold low status roles. Still, Eagly and Chrvala's results do conflict with previous research which have found higher conformity levels among younger rather than older individuals.\n\nAlthough conformity pressures generally increase as the size of the majority increases, a meta-analysis suggests that conformity pressures in Asch's experiment peak once the majority reaches about four or five in number. Moreover, a study suggests that the effects of group size depend on the type of social influence operating. This means that in situations where the group is clearly wrong, conformity will be motivated by normative influence; the participants will conform in order to be accepted by the group. A participant may not feel much pressure to conform when the first person gives an incorrect response. However, conformity pressure will increase as each additional group member also gives the same incorrect response.\n\nIn 1961 Stanley Milgram published a study in which he utilized Asch's conformity paradigm using audio tones instead of lines; he conducted his study in Norway and France. He found substantially higher levels of conformity than Asch, with participants conforming 50% of the time in France and 62% of the time in Norway during critical trials. Milgram also conducted the same experiment once more, but told participants that the results of the study would be applied to the design of aircraft safety signals. His conformity estimates were 56% in Norway and 46% in France, suggesting that individuals conformed slightly less when the task was linked to an important issue. Stanley Milgram's study demonstrated that Asch's study could be replicated with other stimuli, and that in the case of tones, there was a high degree of conformity.\n\nEvidence has been found for the involvement of the posterior medial frontal cortex (pMFC) in conformity, an area associated with memory and decision-making. For example, Klucharev et al. revealed in their study that by using repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation on the pMFC, participants reduced their tendency to conform to the group, suggesting a causal role for the brain region in social conformity. In another study, the mPFC was linked to normative social influence, whilst the activity in the caudate was regarded as an index of informational influence.\n\nThe amygdala and hippocampus have also been found to be recruited when individuals participated in a social manipulation experiment involving long-term memory. Several other areas have further been suggested to play a role in conformity, including the insula, the temporoparietal junction, the ventral striatum, and the anterior and posterior cingulate cortices.\n\nMore recent work stresses the role of orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in conformity not only at the time of social influence, but also later on, when participants are given an opportunity to conform by selecting an action. In particular, Charpentier et al. found that the OFC mirrors the exposure to social influence at a subsequent time point, when a decision is being made without the social influence being present. The tendency to conform has also been observed in the structure of the OFC, with a greater grey matter volume in high conformers.\n\n"}
{"id": "3905234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3905234", "title": "Critics and Awards Program for High School Students", "text": "Critics and Awards Program for High School Students\n\nThe Cappies (Critics and Awards Program) is an international program for recognizing, celebrating, and providing learning experiences for high school theater and journalism students and teenage playwrights.\n\nThere are currently 13 Cappies programs in the U.S. and Canada, which range in size from five to 55 participating high schools. Within each program, every participating high school selects three to nine students for a critic team. After receiving extensive training in theater criticism and review writing, they attend plays and musicals at other high schools in their area. They write reviews (of roughly 400 words) on deadline. Volunteer teacher-mentors lead discussions and select the critic-written reviews that are later published by area newspapers, with student bylines.\n\nThe programs operate in and around Baltimore, Maryland; Cincinnati, Ohio; Dallas, Texas; El Paso, Texas; Ft. Lauderdale – Palm Beach, Florida; Houston, Texas; Kansas City, Missouri; Melbourne, Florida; Northern New Jersey; Orange County, California; Orlando, Florida; Philadelphia, PA; St. Louis, Missouri; Salt Lake City, Utah; Springfield, Missouri; Washington, DC; Edmonton, Alberta; and Ottawa, Ontario.\n\nThe Cappies began in 1999, in response to the Columbine tragedy, as an effort to bring more positive attention to teenagers engaged in creative pursuits. Capitol Steps founder Bill Strauss approached Fairfax County, Virginia public school administrator Judy Bowns, and together they developed the plan for the program. The program began in Fairfax and immediately became popular among high school drama departments in the area, growing from 14 schools in the fall of 1999 to 23 schools by that spring. The Cappies quickly spread to encompass the entire metro Washington, D.C., area. \"The Washington Post\" and several other local papers published student-written reviews, often with photographs (They have since ceased this activity, but instead now post these reviews online in a section entitled \"Tomorrow's Critics\".). As a result, the Cappies became a showcase for local theater and journalism talent, with over 50 schools around Washington, the largest Cappies region. Since 2002, it has operated nationwide, with new regional groups appearing yearly.\n\nTo start a Cappies program, one must organize a small local meeting with students, parents, and teachers. Four schools must participate for the application to be approved. A steering committee (including a Program director, chair, treasurer, and two other members) is formed, and a charter application must be applied for. While waiting for approval, one should find local newspapers/media outlets that are willing to publish 1-2 reviews on a weekly basis. Once approved, an $300 annual application fee must be paid to Cappies, plus a $5–10 per-critic fee that is assessed in November based on critic training sessions and enrollments in the online information services. Each regional steering committee determines the per-school fee requirements.\n\nEach regional program has a steering committee, with a charter from The Cappies. These are volunteers who oversee the work done by critics and teacher-mentors (who are also volunteers), and who then produce the Cappies Gala.\n\nParticipating schools select one show (a play or a musical) as their Cappies show. Some smaller Cappies programs allow schools to select two shows. The schools also select teachers to be mentors, who supervise the student critics and help maintain the integrity of the review-writing process. Before the season begins, the mentors and critics receive training from Cappies officials and are often aided by local journalists.\n\nOn the night of a Cappies show, the critics arrive early, attend the performance, and hold private discussions beforehand, during intermission, and after the show. Afterward, they do a preliminary awards evaluation, selecting who will be on the Cappie awards ballot at the end of the year. After returning home, each critic writes a 200- to 600-word review. The mentors select the reviews they consider the most honest, objective, and best-written, which are then forwarded to local newspapers, many of whom publish these reviews with student bylines.\n\nCritics are encouraged to write real reviews, differentiating between shows that are outstanding and those that fall short in various ways. Cappies reviews can and usually do include criticisms, but these should be objective and fair. Also, individuals responsible for a problem should not be named. For example, if a vocalist sings off-key, a critic may state that as an issue in the show, but may not identify the vocalist. With these rules, the Cappies program reflects a consensus among theater teachers that at the high school level, criticisms are appropriate if they are constructive, but not if they are harsh, sarcastic, or personal.\n\nAfter awards voting, each program then holds a Cappies Gala to present Cappie awards and to celebrate the year's shows. Sometimes these galas are held at schools, and other times at major theater venues. The Cappies of the National Capital Area holds its gala in the Concert Hall of the Kennedy Center, the center's largest performance space. These galas are formal and generally include local VIP award presenters, along with performances of songs or scenes from nominated shows. They usually run from two-and-a-half to three hours, and some are televised.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> The Stage Management category is only featured in the Orange County, California chapter of Cappies.\n\nAt the end of the school year, within each program, critics who review the required minimum number of shows (usually five) become judges for Cappie nominations and awards. Except for critic awards (determined by a digital formula), all Cappie nominations and awards are decided by student critics.\n\nThe student critics gather at a central computer site to vote. This process is carefully supervised by adult proctors, and reviewed for accuracy by a trustee and auditor. Depending on the program, there can be anywhere from three to five nominees per award category. The nominees are announced shortly after the voting.\n\nThe outcome of all awards is determined by unique software developed in 2002 by two high school students from Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology in Alexandria, Virginia.\n\nAwards are only given to high school students in grades 9-12. The amount of adult involvement in offstage work (building sets, sewing costumes, playing in orchestras, etc.) is strictly established in the rules. A Cappies show that has adults exceeding the allowed level of involvement is not eligible for that category, but is eligible for all other awards.\n\nA steering committee of a regional Cappies program can, if it chooses, give a Special Award for Service to a high school student who gave exceptional help, either to the Cappies or to high school theater throughout his or her region.\n\nEvery summer, winners of Lead Actor and Actress awards from all programs are invited to attend the Cappies International Theater. This CIT company presents three shows, all written entirely by high school students: \"Starz!\" (monologues, songs, and minimusicals), \"Playz!\" (short plays), and a full-length student-written musical. The latter two are performed at the Kennedy Center Theater Lab.\n\nThe Cappies International Theater is a summer program focused on the development of dramatic and musical skills. They produce several shows in different categories, and often perform the work of their peers. Students interested in the technical elements of theater also have opportunities to practice and demonstrate their skills.\n\nCappies International Theater began in the summer of 2002 at a small theater in Hollywood. In 2003, in partnership with the Kennedy Center, it moved to Washington, D.C., under the name Cappies National Theater. When the first Canadian program (in Ottawa) joined the Cappies in 2005, the name was changed to Cappies International Theater. Starting in 2006, CIT began featuring works by high school student playwrights, including the two full-length musicals \"\" and \"Senioritis\". Both were written by nine-person creative teams of student book writers, lyricists, composers, and a digital artist.\n\nIn 2006, CIT presented the student-written musical \"Edit:Undo\", which is about teenage life and relationships in the digital era. A CD and DVD of \"Edit:Undo\" are available for sale on the website.\n\nIn 2007, the CIT company presented the student-written musical \"Senioritis\", which is about the anxieties of senior year. A CD and feature-length film was to be made of \"Senioritis\", following the Kennedy Center performances.\n\nIn 2008, the Cappies entered into a licensing agreement with the school's musical publisher Next Gen Publications, to represent \"Edit:Undo\", \"Senioritis\", Free-the-Music.com and founder Strauss' Makiddo worldwide.\n\nThe Cappies International Theater has not taken place since 2009, but may resume in the future.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41449397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41449397", "title": "Cyryx College", "text": "Cyryx College\n\nCyryx College is a private college in Malé City, Maldives. Cyryx College has been in operation since 1993. Cyryx College is the longest serving private college in the Maldives, with the most Maldives Qualification Authority (MQA) certified courses in the education sector.<ref name=\"/studyworldinfo\"></ref>\n\nCyryx College began on 24 August 1993. Starting with 4 computers and 6 students, Cyryx currently caters to over 1,500 students and employs over 65 academic and support staff members. Cyryx College offers certificates, diplomas, and degrees in Information Technology, Management, and Multimedia.\n\nCyryx College operates 3 campuses: the Maafannu campus houses the School of Information Technology, the Machangolhi campus houses the School of Business, and the Galolhu campus houses the School of Multimedia Arts and Design.\n\nThe School of Business is located at Machangoalhi campus on Kenery Magu. It offers the following programmes:\n\nThe School of Information Technology is located at Maafannu campus (M. Kothanmaage, Maaveyo Magu). It offers the following programmes:\n\nThe School of Multimedia Arts & Design is located at the Galolhu Campus on Bodurasgefaanu Magu. It offers the following programmes:\n\nThe School of Humanities and Education (SHE) offers the following programmes:\n\nCyryx College is affiliated with international partners such as Help University of Malaysia, whose bachelor's programmes in business and IT can be completed at Cyryx College. Other affiliated universities include SRM University, Sri Lanka; KDU, KBU, APIIT, Taylors, Limkokwing, and Binary College from Malaysia; RMIT University from Australia; and both Coventry and Plymouth University from the United Kingdom.\n\nCyryx College has been given the following awards:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "990772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=990772", "title": "Food fight", "text": "Food fight\n\nA food fight is a form of chaotic collective behavior, in which food is thrown at others in the manner of projectiles. These projectiles are not made nor meant to harm others, but to simply ignite a fight filled with spontaneous food throwing. Food fights may be impromptu examples of rebellion or violence; however, they can also be planned events. In organized food fights, the food \"weapons\" are usually all of one kind, or of a limited variety. An impromptu food fight will use whatever food is on hand.\n\nThough usually associated with juvenile settings such as schools, food fights have a long history throughout the world as a form of festive public entertainment or pastime. They have traditionally been popular since the early Middle Ages in Europe during seasonal festivals, especially in the summertime. For example, Spanish \"La Tomatina\" is still regularly held every August in Valencian town of Buñol, in which participants pelt each other with tomatoes, as is Battle of the Oranges held in the Italian town of Ivrea where, as the name would suggest, the oranges are used instead. Food fights occur at the meetings of the Legislative Yuan of Taiwan.\nFood fights have also become a common element in slapstick comedy, with the pie in the face gag being especially well-known. Food fights are frequently featured in children's television and books, usually as an example of childish, destructive or reckless behavior.\n"}
{"id": "6746777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6746777", "title": "Fuzzbuzz", "text": "Fuzzbuzz\n\nFuzzbuzz is a series of educational books designed for small children who may have problems with reading, published by Oxford University Press. It is based on phonic and high frequency words and is a good scheme to use with any child that needs a boost of the basics. It reinforces spelling patterns and uses interesting language that children can use in their own creative writing. Suitable for children from age 6 upwards, depending on their existing level of ability.\n\nThe Fuzzbuzzes are creatures with a blue, circular fuzzy body, two antennas and thin legs. They live near the Slinx, an interesting creature who makes life a challenge for the Fuzzbuzzes. There are three levels of difficulty in these books, with the stories also getting more complex as the series goes on.\n\nLevel one, the stories use only 100 words, limiting the range of the plot. The books are one story from book one to six, followed by platform readers for the strugglers in two parts, 6.1–6.6, then 6.7–6.12. These introduce new characters, Eggin, the good guy and The Buzzit, the bad guy. Other creatures also enter the storyline.\n\nLevel two contains a Scottish clan of Fuzzbuzzes living in a glen and the Slinx going into space. Books 7–12 follows a simple introduction of the clan in the glen, living in crofts. Stories are entertaining and amusing. Books 12.1–12.12 follow the progress of the Slinx versus the Fuzzbuzzes in a territorial battle over the dump. The use of materials recycled from the dump and some of the scientific processes are used, especially to appeal to boys who aren't keen on reading.\n\nLevel three is also based in Scotland, and the clan venture into the Glen of Gloom, which is inhabited by a monster, The Snagron. Vocabulary in these books remains largely phonic, but ventures into words using familiar spelling patterns, so still easier to sound out than normal text. Rich in adjectives and bloodthirsty in places, these stories appeal to the older reader and boost confidence by using text that is dramatic yet logical. Plenty of wonderful illustrations to keep the more reluctant readers gripped, by the sequential books numbered 13 to 20.\n\nAll of the books have additional tasks at the bottom of some pages, which can be written or completed orally, including close text, i.e. 'find the missing word'. Many books have comprehension questions at the end of the book giving page numbers where the answer can be found. The story books also come with workbooks, for the children to practice writing and comprehension in.\n\n"}
{"id": "28899704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28899704", "title": "Higher Education Evaluation and Accreditation Council of Taiwan", "text": "Higher Education Evaluation and Accreditation Council of Taiwan\n\nThe Higher Education Evaluation and Accreditation Council of Taiwan (HEEACT) () was founded in May 2005. HEEACT applied for ISO certification in July 2008 and received certification on 4 February 2009.\n\nUntil 2012, HEEACT published the annual Performance Ranking of Scientific Papers for World Universities, a bibliometrics based ranking of research universities. The performance measures were composed of eight indicators (11 years articles, Current articles, 11 years citations, Current citations, Average citations, H-index, Highly cited papers, and High Impact journal articles) representing three different criteria of scientific paper performance: research productivity, research impact, and research excellence. The objective indicators used in this ranking system were designed measure both long-term and short-term research performance of each university. The ranking started in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "14423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14423", "title": "Higher education", "text": "Higher education\n\nHigher education (also called post-secondary education, third-level or tertiary education) is an optional final stage of formal learning that occurs after completion of secondary education. Often delivered at universities, academies, colleges, seminaries, conservatories, and institutes of technology, higher education is also available through certain college-level institutions, including vocational schools, trade schools, and other career colleges that award academic degrees or professional certifications. Tertiary education at non-degree level is sometimes referred to as further education or continuing education as distinct from higher education. The right of access to higher education is mentioned in a number of international human rights instruments. The UN International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of 1966 declares, in Article 13, that \"higher education shall be made equally accessible to all, on the basis of capacity, by every appropriate means, and in particular by the progressive introduction of free education\". In Europe, Article 2 of the First Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights, adopted in 1950, obliges all signatory parties to guarantee the right to education.\n\nIn the days when few pupils progressed beyond primary education or basic education, the term \"higher education\" was often used to refer to secondary education, which can create some confusion. This is the origin of the term \"high school\" for various schools for children between the ages of 14 and 18 (United States) or 11 and 18 (UK and Australia).\nHigher education includes teaching, research, exacting applied work (e.g. in medical schools and dental schools), and social services activities of universities. Within the realm of teaching, it includes both the \"undergraduate\" level, and beyond that, \"graduate-level\" (or \"postgraduate\" level). The latter level of education is often referred to as graduate school, especially in North America. In addition to the skills that are specific to any particular degree, potential employers in any profession are looking for evidence of critical thinking and analytical reasoning skills, teamworking skills, information literacy, ethical judgment, decision-making skills, fluency in speaking and writing, problem solving skills, and a wide knowledge of liberal arts and sciences.\n\nSince World War II, developed and many developing countries have increased the participation of the age group who mostly studies higher education from the elite rate, of up to 15 per cent, to the mass rate of 16 to 50 per cent. In many developed countries, participation in higher education has continued to increase towards universal or, what Trow later called, open access, where over half of the relevant age group participate in higher education. Higher education is important to national economies, both as an industry, in its own right, and as a source of trained and educated personnel for the rest of the economy. College educated workers have commanded a measurable wage premium and are much less likely to become unemployed than less educated workers. However, the admission of so many students of only average ability to higher education inevitably requires a decline in academic standards, facilitated by grade inflation. Also, the supply of graduates in many fields of study is exceeding the demand for their skills, which aggravates graduate unemployment, underemployment, credentialism and educational inflation.\n\nThe U.S. system of higher education was heavily influenced by the Humboldtian model of higher education. Wilhelm von Humboldt's educational model goes beyond vocational training. In a letter to the Prussian king, he wrote:\n\nThe philosopher Julian Nida-Rümelin criticized discrepancies between Humboldt's ideals and the contemporary European education policy, which narrowly understands education as a preparation for the labor market, and argued that we need to decide between McKinsey and Humboldt.\n\nDemonstrated ability in reading, mathematics, and writing, as typically measured in the United States by the SAT or similar tests such as the ACT, have often replaced colleges' individual entrance exams, and is often required for admission to higher education. There is some question as to whether advanced mathematical skills or talent are in fact necessary for fields such as history, English, philosophy, or art.\n\nThe general higher education and training that takes place in a university, college, or Institute of technology usually includes significant theoretical and abstract elements, as well as applied aspects (although limited offerings of internships or SURF programs attempt to provide practical applications). In contrast, the vocational higher education and training that takes place at vocational universities and schools usually concentrates on practical applications, with very little theory.\n\nIn addition, professional-level education is always included within Higher Education, and usually in graduate schools since many postgraduate academic disciplines are both vocationally, professionally, and theoretically/research oriented, such as in the law, medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, and veterinary medicine. A basic requirement for entry into these graduate-level programs is almost always a bachelor's degree, although alternative means of obtaining entry into such programs may be available at some universities. Requirements for admission to such high-level graduate programs is extremely competitive, and admitted students are expected to perform well.\n\nWhen employers in any profession consider hiring a college graduate, they are looking for evidence of critical thinking, analytical reasoning skills, teamworking skills, information literacy, ethical judgment, decision-making skills, communication skills (using both text and speech), problem solving skills, and a wide knowledge of liberal arts and sciences. However, most employers consider the average graduate to be more or less deficient in all of these areas.\n\nIn the United States, there are large differences in wages and employment associated with different degrees. Medical doctors and lawyers are generally the highest paid workers, and have among the lowest unemployment rates. Among undergraduate fields of study, science, technology, engineering, math, and business generally offer the highest wages and best chances of employment, while education, communication, and liberal arts degrees generally offer lower wages and a lower likelihood of employment.\n\nAcademic areas that are included within the liberal arts include environmental science, great books, history, languages including English, linguistics, literature, mathematics, music, philosophy, political science, psychology, religious studies, science, sociology and theater.\n\nTeaching engineering is teaching the application of scientific, economic, social, and practical knowledge in order to design, build, maintain, and improve structures, machines, devices, systems, materials and processes. It may encompass using insights to conceive, model and scale an appropriate solution to a problem or objective. The discipline of engineering is extremely broad, and encompasses a range of more specialized fields of engineering, each with a more specific emphasis on particular areas of technology and types of application. Engineering disciplines include aerospace, biological, civil, chemical, computer, electrical, industrial, and mechanical.\n\nThe performing arts differ from the plastic arts or visual arts, insofar as the former uses the artist's own body, face and presence as a medium; the latter uses materials such as clay, metal or paint, which can be molded or transformed to create a work of art.\n\nPerforming arts institutions include , dance schools, drama schools and music schools.\n\nThe plastic arts or visual arts are a class of art forms, that involve the use of materials, that can be moulded or modulated in some way, often in three dimensions. Examples are painting, sculpture, and drawing.\n\nHigher educational institutions in these arts include film schools and art schools.\n\nHigher vocational education and training takes place at the non-university tertiary level. Such education combines teaching of both practical skills and theoretical expertise. Higher education differs from other forms of post-secondary education such as that offered by institutions of vocational education, which are more colloquially known as trade schools. Higher vocational education might be contrasted with education in a usually broader scientific field, which might concentrate on theory and abstract conceptual knowledge.\n\nThis describes a distinct form of higher education that offers a particularly intense integration with the world of work in all its aspects (including teaching, learning, research and governance) and at all levels of the overarching Qualifications Framework of the European Higher Education Area. Its function is to diversify learning opportunities, enhance employability, offer qualifications and stimulate innovation, for the benefit of learners and society.\n\nThe intensity of integration with the world of work (which includes enterprise, civil society and the public sector) is manifested by a strong focus on application of learning. This approach involves combining phases of work and study, a concern for employability, cooperation with employers, the use of practice-relevant knowledge and use-inspired research.\n\nExamples of providers of professional higher education may include graduate colleges of architecture, business, journalism, law, library science, optometry, pharmacy, public policy, human medicine, professional engineering, podiatric medicine, scientific dentistry, K-12 education, and veterinary medicine.\n\nA report titled 'Education at a Glance 2014' published by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development on 9 September 2014, revealed that by 2014, 84 percent of young people were completing upper secondary education over their lifetimes, in high-income countries. Tertiary-educated individuals were earning twice as much as median workers. In contrast to historical trends in education, young women were more likely to complete upper secondary education than young men. Additionally, access to education was expanding and growth in the number of people receiving university education was rising sharply. By 2014, close to 40 percent of people aged 25–34 (and around 25 percent of those aged 55–64), were being educated at university.\n\nThe Lisbon Recognition Convention stipulates that degrees and periods of study must be recognised in all of the Signatory Parties of the Convention.\n\nUniversities may employ a number of people. Depending on the funding, a university typically hires one teacher per 3–25 students. According to the ideal of research-university, the university teaching staff is actively involved in the research of the institution. In addition, the university usually also has dedicated research staff and a considerable support staff. Typically to work in higher education as a member of the academic faculty, a candidate must first obtain a doctorate in an academic field, although some lower teaching positions require only a master's degree.\n\nMost of the administrative staff works in different administrative sections, such as Student Affairs. In addition, there may be central support units, such as a university library which have a dedicated staff.\n\nThe professional field involving the collection, analysis, and reporting of higher education data is called institutional research. Professionals in this field can be found at locations in addition to universities, e.g. state educational departments.\n\nPost-secondary institutions also employ graduate students in various assistantship roles. In the US, close to 50% of graduate students are employed as graduate assistants at some point. These apprenticeship-like positions provide opportunities for students to gain experience in, and exposure to, professional roles in exchange for funding of their academic programs.\n\nFrom the early 1950s to the present, more and more people in the United States have gone on to pursue degrees or certificates of higher education. However this has sparked some debate in recent years as some advocates say that a degree is not what it was once worth to employers. To clarify some advocates say that the financial costs that universities require from their students has gone up so dramatically that it is leaving many students in debt of loans of an average of $37,172 compared to 2000, where the average debt students graduated with was $16,928. In the United States there is an estimated 44 million Americans with a combined $1.3 trillion student loan debt. Advocates advise parents to not send their children to college unless these children are committed to pursuing their future education. An increasing number of freshman every year drop out of their perspective programs or do not possess the maturity to have a balanced life away from home.\n\nHowever statistics from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics indicate that the college educated are employed at a rate nearly twice that of the national average when compared to high school graduates. The type of degree one pursues will determine how safe and prosperous his/her career path is. A study published by the Pew Charitable Trusts, shows that among Americans ages 21 to 24, the drop in employment and income was much steeper among people who lacked a college degree. \"Among those whose highest degree was a high school diploma, only 55% had jobs even before the downturn, and that fell to 47% after it. For young people with an associates degree, the employment rate fell from 64 to 57. Bachelor's degree slipped from 69 to 65.\" Professor Lisa Kahn of Yale stated that people who graduated from college in the most recent recession were in a position to gain better security than others.\n\nUltimately a survey, the Great Jobs and Great Lives Gallup-Purdue Index report found the type of college that students attend and in some cases even majors they choose have very little to do with their overall success and well-being later in life. What matters more, the index found, is feeling supported and making emotional connections during school.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30850378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30850378", "title": "Interdisciplinary Telecommunications Program", "text": "Interdisciplinary Telecommunications Program\n\nThe Interdisciplinary Telecommunications Program (its acronym is ITP) is a part of the University of Colorado at Boulder and offers graduate degrees in telecommunications: a Doctor of Philosophy and Master of Science in Telecommunications and a Master of Engineering in Telecommunications. It is the oldest telecommunications program in the United States and was founded in 1971 by Frank S. Barnes (Engineering) and George Codding (deceased, International Relations). Since its inception, ITP has taken an interdisciplinary approach to telecommunications, involving the study of engineering, law, politics, economics and business. Over the course of the past 35 years, ITP has graduated approximately 2,000 alumni who are in various positions around the world as CEOs, government officials, and management.\n\nIn 2004, ITP founder Frank S. Barnes was awarded the prestigious Gordon Prize for having founded ITP due to its innovative character and the influence that it has had within academia and industry. As the first program of its kind in the United States, it broke ground for the many academic programs that followed. When Peterson's first started listing telecommunications programs in 1996, the director of ITP was asked to write the introduction on the topic for Peterson's publisher. There is no question that many other prominent university programs have been directly influenced by ITP. For further information, there is now a consortium of universities that teach the telecommunications discipline, known as ITERA.\n\nStudents may participate in the program through either full-time academic study on campus or by participating in a distance-education platform.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2331619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2331619", "title": "Jack Warner (football executive)", "text": "Jack Warner (football executive)\n\nAustin \"Jack\" Warner (born 26 January 1943) is a Trinidadian politician, businessman, and former football executive. Warner was Vice President of FIFA and President of CONCACAF until his suspension and eventual resignation from these roles in 2011. He is also the former Minister of National Security of Trinidad and Tobago and was an elected member of the country's parliament from 2007 to 2015. A former history teacher, he is the owner of Joe Public F.C., a professional football club in Tunapuna, Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nWarner had been a member of the FIFA Executive Committee since 1983 and CONCACAF President since 1990. He was re-elected for a new term in 2011. Warner was implicated in numerous corruption allegations dating back to the 1980s. On 29 May 2011, Warner and Mohammed bin Hammam were provisionally suspended by the FIFA Ethics Committee pending the outcome of the investigation of corruption allegations against them. On 20 June 2011, FIFA announced Warner's resignation from all his positions in international football.\n\nOn 18 April 2013, The Confederation of North, Central American and Caribbean Association Football (CONCACAF) published its Integrity Committee report into Warner, concluding that he had committed fraud against CONCACAF and FIFA. In 2015, Warner (along with several other FIFA officials who were arrested in Zurich before the annual FIFA Congress) was charged in the United States with \"wire fraud, racketeering, and money laundering.\" Warner is facing extradition to the United States for criminal prosecution. On 29 September 2015, the adjudicatory chamber of the Ethics Committee, chaired by Hans-Joachim Eckert, decided to ban him from taking part in any kind of football-related activity at national and international level for life.\n\nAustin \"Jack\" Warner was born in Rio Claro, south Trinidad, on 26 January 1943. He is one of three brothers and three sisters who were brought up almost single-handedly by their mother Stella. After gaining a scholarship from Trinidad Clay Products, he attended the College of St Phillip's and St James, which in 1958 became Presentation College, Chaguanas. After attending Teachers Training College, he then graduated with a BA degree from the University of the West Indies at St Augustine, and subsequently earned a Diploma in International Relations from the same institution.\n\nIn 1971, Warner became a teacher at North Eastern College, and was also at this time until 1973 a part-time sociology lecturer at UWI. From 1972 until 1993, he was a lecturer in history at the Polytechnic Institute.\n\nIn 1966, Warner became General Secretary of the Central Football Association, and from 1971–1973 was General Secretary of the Central St. George Football Association.\n\nWarner became the secretary of the Trinidad and Tobago Football Federation (TTFF) in 1973. In 1990, he was elected President of the Caribbean Football Union, resigning his post at TTFF but was immediately appointed a special advisor, a position that he still holds.\n\nIn 1983, Warner became a CONCACAF Vice-President and also joined the FIFA Executive Committee. Warner was elected CONCACAF President in 1990, unseating Joaquín Soria Terrazas who had held the seat for twenty years. Warner and the new CONCACAF General Secretary, Chuck Blazer, took over an organization with US$140,000 in annual revenue. Warner was appointed as a FIFA Vice-President in 1997. In 2010, Warner stated his intent to stand for re-election in 2011.\nJack Warner is the chairman of the Joe Public Football Club which he founded in 1996, in the aftermath of Trinidad and Tobago's failed World Cup qualifying campaign. Warner also helped to found Trinidad and Tobago's Professional Football League (PFL), then the first professional football league in the Caribbean, which has since been superseded by the TT Pro League.\n\nIn 1998, Warner purchased the Scarlet Ibis Hotel in St Augustine for TT$6 million, which he renovated and renamed the Emerald Apartments and Plaza. Run by Warner's son Daryl, the Emerald Apartments and Plaza sponsor local football competitions, including the 2010 Eastern Football Association Emerald Apartments & Plaza Cup. Warner also owns Kantac Plaza in Arouca, which was used as the base for Trinidad and Tobago's successful 2006 World Cup qualifying campaign. Warner had other real estate holdings in the twin island republic, including the offices used by TTFF and CONCACAF. CONCACAF pays Warner \"nearly a third of a million dollars a year\" rent. Warner also claims business interests in Costa Rica and the United States. Warner states that his investments were funded from \"the salary and allowances I received from FIFA\".\n\nBefore the 2006 FIFA World Cup, Warner, as special advisor to TTFF, brokered a deal between the Federation and the players on Trinidad and Tobago's 2006 World Cup team to share the proceeds from their participation in the World Cup. After the tournament, the Federation declared revenue of TT$18.25 million, costs of TT$17.9 million and offered the players a split of TT$5,644.08 per player. The players rejected this figure, disputing the Federation's numbers. Warner criticized the players for refusing to accept the TTFF's unaudited statement, saying \"What Trinidad is suffering from is from a situation whereby 16 or 18 players are holding a country and a federation to ransom because of greed.\" Shaka Hislop, the interim president of the Football Players Association of Trinidad and Tobago, responded with a letter to Warner writing \"You have continually proven yourself heavily biased and opinionated in this matter.\" In 2010, Hislop added that \"Jack Warner, though not on the TTFA officially, makes every single decision: how much bonus should be paid, who is the right coach.\"\n\nThe Trinidad and Tobago government revealed that the Federation received in excess of TT$173 million for their part in the tournament in Germany. TTFF proposed that the bonus dispute be heard before the UK Sports Dispute Resolution Panel, which the players agreed to. Arbitrator Ian Mill QC heard the case and ruled that Warner had \"the authority of the TTFA to commit it to financial transactions\" and that the players were entitled to 50 per cent of the FIFA World Cup participation money and the commercial revenues gained from Trinidad and Tobago's qualification, as well as half the net income from World Cup warm-up matches. The players' lawyer, Michael Townley, said, \"At the moment, the players have not received a single cent\" and alleged that the TTFF defaulted on its payment to the arbitration body.\n\nWarner once again caused controversy in 2007 in an interview with the BBC about England's chances of holding the 2018 FIFA World Cup. He asserted that \"England invented the sport but has never made any impact on world football\" despite being one of only (then) seven nations to ever lift the world cup, \"For Europe, England is an irritant\", and that \"Nobody in Europe likes England\". Furthermore, Warner proposed that, if the World Cup were to be held in Europe, it should be held in Italy, Spain or France (countries that last hosted the competition in 1990, 1982 and 1998 respectively). He said that he would \"battle to bring...the tournament to his region\"\n\nHowever, on 14 February 2008, Warner retracted this stance. England's Football Association agreed to visit Trinidad and Tobago to play a friendly against the Trinidad and Tobago national football team on the condition that Warner apologize.\n\nWarner argued that, \"The time has come. The fact is they invented this sport [...] They last held the World Cup 42 years ago. That is almost two to three generations. There are guys in England who have never seen a World Cup on English soil.\" Warner maintained that the choice of England would not be popular among mainland Europe though.\n\nDuring the bidding process to host the 2018 and 2022 FIFA World Cup's Warner continually supported the English bid, promising to vote in England's favour at the draw in December 2010. Warner approached the England bid team through David Beckham, offering to hold off on bringing out the vote for Russia in exchange for promises in relation to CONCACAF. Russia won the vote to hold the FIFA World Cup in 2018, with Warner widely reported to have voted for the Russian bid.\n\nIn September 2008, after Sunderland player Dwight Yorke had withdrawn from the Trinidad and Tobago national football team, Warner attacked the club and the manager, Roy Keane. In a letter leaked to the press, Warner accused Keane of disrespecting \"small countries\" and having a \"mean streak\". Keane responded by denying the allegation, accusing Warner of being a \"clown\" and a \"disgrace\", and insisted that Yorke was retired from international football.\n\nWarner unilaterally withdrew CONCACAFS support of the football events at the Mayagüez 2010 games at the last moment stating that the tournament facilities allegedly do not meet the \"minimum standards required to conduct an international tournament.\" He threatened to sanction countries that participated. Some of the possible sanctions were the teams accreditation by Concacaf and ending economic helps.\n\nWarner has been accused of corruption for repeatedly taking advantage of his position for financial gain.\n\nVia a private family company, Warner owned shares in Simpaul, a travel and holiday company. In late 2002, various global media publications alleged that Warner had made a profit of $350,000 selling 2002 FIFA World Cup tickets. In a series of exposés during December 2005, the \"Trinidad and Tobago Express\" revealed that Simpaul was offering $30,000 packages to the 2006 FIFA World Cup in Germany, which effectively marked up match tickets at a high rate. FIFA's ethics committee criticised the ticket deals, concluding Warner had abused his position to obtain personal benefits and failed to declare his business interests. Warner agreed to sever all family links with Simpaul immediately. However, his son Daryan remained a director of Simpaul throughout World Cup 2006, while his personal assistant remained the company secretary of Simpaul.\n\nFIFA started an investigation and asked their auditors Ernst & Young, to investigate. In a report submitted to FIFA in March 2006, E&Y estimated that Warner's family had made a profit of at least $1 million from reselling 2006 World Cup tickets, that Warner had directly ordered or sold on behalf of the TTFA. Minutes of FIFA’s executive committee indicate that in consequence of being found guilty of breaking FIFA's Article 5, a fine of almost $1 million, equal to the expected profiteering, was imposed on the family. Despite numerous reminders from FIFA, only $250,000 has been paid. Andrew Jennings, the presenter of FIFA's Dirty Secrets, an edition of BBC's \"Panorama,\" repeated the allegations in a November 2010 programme during the week Warner and his fellow FIFA Executive Committee members voted to decide the hosts for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups.\n\nScottish Football Association President John McBeth said Warner asked that monies owed to the TTFF be sent to Warner's personal account. According to McBeth, after Trinidad and Tobago visited Scotland for a friendly match at Easter Road, Edinburgh, on 30 May 2004, Warner asked that the cheque for the game be made out to him. McBeth told Warner, \"we don't do that\" and noted that Warner also approached other members of the Scottish FA following the game in an attempt to collect money due to the TTFF.\n\nOn 10 May 2011, former chairman of the English Football Association, Lord Triesman, accused Warner and several others of asking for compensation in return for votes for England's 2018 World Cup bid. Warner reportedly asked for £2.5 million that would go toward building an education centre in Trinidad. Sir Dave Richards, the chairman of the Premier League, who was present at the meeting, confirmed that the intention of cash for votes was implied, although it was not explicitly stated. However, Warner described the allegations as \"a piece of nonsense\".\n\nOn 26 May 2011 the BBC published an email from Warner to the English FA requesting funds to purchase Haiti's World Cup television rights. The above article also quotes FIFA as denying that Haiti had ever been granted television rights for this competition. This email appears to substantiate a separate charge by Lord Triesman (formally heading the England 2018 World Cup bid) whereby Warner had requested funds from the English to (again) be sent into his personal account so that he could purchase the rights as a humanitarian gesture for the Haitian people. In return, the English bid team could expect his support during the bid process. The total sum that Warner had requested in this instance was in the region of $1.6 million.\n\nIn December 2011 Warner claimed to have purchased the television rights for the 1998, 2002, 2006, 2010 and 2014 editions of the FIFA World Cup for Trinidad & Tobago, via a Mexican company. Warner claimed to have purchased the rights for the 1998 FIFA World Cup for $1. Warner also claimed that he refused to endorse Sepp Blatter in the 2011 FIFA Presidential election despite being offered the rights to the 2018 and 2022 World Cup, again for a nominal fee. Warner further alleged that he was offered other \"inducements\" to develop football in the Caribbean. Warner claims he used the revenue from selling on the rights to develop football in the Caribbean.\n\nIn February 2012 the TTFF claimed that funds for Haiti donated following the 2010 earthquake were paid into a bank account controlled by Warner. FIFA subsequently froze funding to the TTFF until it received an explanation. FIFA is also withholding Warner's pension. Warner later suggested that the allegations were a conspiracy, saying that \"I have nothing to answer to anybody. Who wants to make allegations, make allegations. Ask yourselves, as objective members of the media: 'Why now...?' And after you get why now, just join the dots and see.\"\n\nOn 19 April 2013, the CONCACAF Integrity Committee, headed by David Simmons, former Chief Justice of Barbados, issued a report accusing Warner and his former cohort Chuck Blazer of mismanagement and massive fraud. Warner is alleged to have concealed his ownership of the land on which CONCACAF's $25 million Joao Havelange Center of Excellence was built, which made him the effective owner of the building. Warner's initial public reaction was defiant: \"As far as I am aware it is baseless and malicious. I left CONCACAF and turned my back on football two years ago. Since then I have had no interest in any football-related matter.\"\n\nIn May 2015, Warner was indicted by the United States Department of Justice and an arrest warrant issued for him and other FIFA officials. Warner and the others were accused of \"wire fraud, racketeering and money laundering\".\n\nWarner handed himself into Trinidad police in May and was bailed pending extradition to the United States.\nThe following week, he said publicly that he had documents linking the outcome of the 2010 Trinidad and Tobago general election with FIFA finances and himself.\nWarner made the claims in a paid national television political broadcast, saying that his life was in danger, that he had given the documents to lawyers, and, \"I will no longer keep secrets for them who actively seek to destroy the country.\"\n\nAfter the US formally requested Warner's extradition in July 2015, he appealed against the procedure, represented by a strong legal team. After more than two years of deliberation, on 28 September 2017 High Court judge James Aboud ruled against the suit, allowing the extradition process to proceed, while granting Warner and his legal team 28 days to appeal the decision. On 2 November 2017 Warner's attorneys filed an appeal. On 2 March 2018, Justice of Appeal Mark Mohammed granted Warner an appeal of Aboud's ruling, to be heard in November 2018—effectively postponing any possible extradition until some time after the hearing.\n\nIn October 2007, Warner was elected United National Congress Alliance chairman and co-leader, to lead the party into Trinidad and Tobago's 2007 General Election. They won 15 of 41 seats, and Warner was elected as the Member of Parliament for Chaguanas West. Patrick Manning's PNM government, which had comfortably won the 2007 election, called an election less than three years into its mandate. Warner's UNC party formed a coalition with four other parties and won 24 May 2010 elections by a landslide margin of 29 of 41 seats in parliament. Warner was re-elected in Chaguanas West with the highest national vote total. He has described the previous Trinidadian administration as the \"most corrupt ever\" and has pledged to enforce hanging as a method of execution. Warner has said, \"It is inconceivable to have 295 on death row awaiting the hangman...when no one is trying to apply the law.\"\n\nAfter the 2010 election, Warner was appointed the Works and Transport Minister in Prime Minister Kamla Persad-Bissessar's government. Opposition leader Keith Rowley wrote to the Integrity Commission questioning Warner's ability to be a FIFA Vice President, while also the Trinidad and Tobago Works and Transport Minister. Government counsel concluded that Warner was not breaking any laws, Attorney General Anand Ramlogan said that Warner did not receive a salary from FIFA, Trinidad benefited from Warner's appointment, and his two positions were unlikely to conflict.\n\nAlthough Warner was allowed to withdraw from football-related activities by FIFA with a presumption of innocence in the CFU scandal of 2011, a videotape played during FIFA's disciplinary process was consequently made public. Prime Minister Kamla Persad-Bissessar referred the videotape to the Attorney General of Trinidad and Tobago without endorsing or condemning Warner. Warner resigned as Minister of National Security on 21 April 2013 and was replaced by Emmanuel George. Warner resigned as Chairman of the United National Congress on 22 April 2013, and resigned as Member of Parliament for Chaguanas West four days later, triggering a by-election in his constituency. Warner subsequently formed a new political party, the Independent Liberal Party (ILP), and won the by-election for Chaguanas West on 29 July.\n\nWarner contested Trinidad and Tobago's 2015 General Election held on 7 September 2015 in the Chaguanas East seat. Warner received 771 votes (4.30%) and failed to win the seat in the election.\n\nAfter a long-running political feud, Surujrattan Rambachan sued Warner for defamation. In July 2016, Warner agreed to pay TT$375,000 as final settlement.\n\n"}
{"id": "1771365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1771365", "title": "Janove Ottesen", "text": "Janove Ottesen\n\nJanove Ottesen (born Jan Ove Ottesen, 1975) is a Norwegian musician, born in Stord, Hordaland, Norway. He specializes in vocals, guitar and barrels, and is a leading member of the Norwegian band Kaizers Orchestra.\n\nBryne, where Ottesen grew up, had few activities available at the time other than football, so he was given a guitar by his grandmother when he was a child. Ottesen and his friend Geir Zahl began writing music in his cellar, recording their music on a cheap tape recorder.\n\nThe partnership between Ottesen and Zahl eventually evolved into the band Blod, Snått og Juling. In 1994 they produced their first studio album \"En glad tunnel\", which only sold 50 copies. They made a more serious attempt with better studio equipment for their second album, but this still only managed to sell around 100 copies.\n\nOttesen moved to Bergen in 1995 to study. In 1996 he joined the army, but soon after moved back to Bergen and became a music teacher. Upon his return Ottesen and Geir formed a new band gnom. They released the album \"Mys\" in 1998, but it sold poorly. After gnom's dissolution, the pair finally found critical success in forming the band Kaizers Orchestra.\n\nAfter two albums had been released by Kaizers Orchestra, Janove decided to launch a parallel solo career while working on a third album \"Maestro\" (released in 2005). His 2004 solo album, \"Francis' Lonely Nights\" is entirely in English and contains 12 songs, two of which had their music videos filmed in Scandinavia.\n\nIn September 2015 Ottesen announced he was returning to the mainstream music industry under the artist name Janove. His first single \"Regnbuen Treffer Oss Ikkje Lenger\" (\"The Rainbow Doesn't Hit Us Anymore\") premiered on Spellemannprisen on 30 January 2016 as he performed it live for the first time. He says his music will have influences of R'n'B, hiphop and rap music\". The lyrics will also be more modern than the fans might have gotten used to with Kaizers Orchestra.\n\nIn 2007, Kaizers decided to take a break for the majority of the year, only writing up demos for their fourth album and playing three concerts (including opening the German art expo Documenta festival). Janove took this opportunity to write music for \"Det Tusende Hjertet\", a family musical which opened in November 2007. In August 2007 he revealed that his next side project will not be a solo album, and that he has assembled another band (like fellow Kaizer bandmate Terje Winterstø Røthing and his band Skambankt). Nothing is known about the status of this project.\n\nAside from his work with Kaizers and as an independent artist, he has also acted as producer for multiple albums, working with various artists with various styles, including Micke From Sweden (Folk), Britt-Synnøve Johansen (Tango), and The Brigade (Americana). He also participated in Geir \"Uncle Deadly\" Zahl's album , that was released on 1 February 2010.\n\nOttesen is married and has two children. They live in Stavanger.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45558919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45558919", "title": "Jayatu Sanskritam movement", "text": "Jayatu Sanskritam movement\n\nThe Jayatu Sanskritam movement was begun in July 1947 by students of the Tindhara School in Nepal. They demanded democracy and the inclusion of modern subjects in their curriculum. It was the first student uprising in Nepal's history.\nThe students of tindhara pakshala (hostel) was also not unaffected by the anti-rana movements in Nepal. The hostel was so called because it had three taps. There were the students of Rajkiya Sanskrit Vidyalaya situated nearby the Ranipokhari. On 1 Asar, 2004 the students summited a demand paper to P.M Padma Shumsher requesting to introduce courses in geography, history,economics and political science too. But the P.M paid no attention to their demand as a result they went on a strike.\nThis is the info we have got from historian \"Kalyan Krishna Timsina\"<br><br>\n\n"}
{"id": "25900772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25900772", "title": "Karwan University", "text": "Karwan University\n\nKarwan University is a degree-awarding tertiary educational institution in Kabul, Afghanistan. It was founded in 2007 and is registered with the Afghan Ministry of Higher Education.\n\nKarwan University is registered with the Ministry of Higher Education of Afghanistan. In late 2009, it officially became a university. Its founder is Sayed Javed Andish, who is a businessman and Chairman of Afghanistan Universities Association and advisor of Afghanistan Chamber of Commerce and Industries.\n\nKarwan University offers bachelor's degrees in business administration, economics, Law, political science, agriculture, pharmacy, journalism and computer science. It also offers Accounting courses, Diploma in Business Administration, Information Technology, English Language, Literacy, security courses and Civil Engineering.\n\nKarwan University commenced delivery of Economics, BBA (Bachelor of Business Administration), Computer Science, Law and Political Science undergraduate courses. Karwan University was helped by foreign-educated Afghan friends and well wishers before receiving foreign recognition for this private university.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58707666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58707666", "title": "L. D. Adams", "text": "L. D. Adams\n\nLouise Doris Adams (died 1966) was a British mathematics educator and school inspector (HMI) who wrote the 1953 book \"A Background to Primary School Mathematics\" (Oxford University Press) and became president of the Mathematical Association for 1959.\n\nAdams earned a degree from Bedford College, London, with second-class honours in mathematics in 1911.\nHer work as an inspector was centred on the West Country and particularly Bristol.\n\nShe joined the Mathematical Association in approximately 1915, and became a member of the Teaching Sub-Committee of the Mathematical Association in 1946.\nWhen she became president of the Mathematical Association in 1959, she became only the second woman to hold that office since the association's founding in 1871, after Mary Cartwright in 1951, and the second HMI, after W. C. Fletcher in 1939.\n\nShe died in 1966.\n\nAdams had \"considerable experience as a teacher and inspector\" and wrote her book, \"A Background to Primary School Mathematics\" (1953), on the basis of that experience. It was aimed at teachers of primary-school mathematics, and used case studies from approximately 80 students to advocate linking the teaching of mathematics to the individual experiences of the students. Her book \"inspired many teachers\" and prefigured a greater emphasis on play with mathematical tools over rote learning.\n\nAs a member of the Teaching Sub-Committee of the Mathematical Association, Adams helped shift the association's focus \"from teaching to learning\" and from what should be taught to how it should be taught. Both her book and her presidential address to the Mathematical Association were a major impetus to the reform of mathematical education in the UK.\n"}
{"id": "6873097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6873097", "title": "Maria Dyer", "text": "Maria Dyer\n\nMaria Dyer (née Tarn) (c. 1803 – 21 October 1846), was a British Protestant Christian missionary to the Chinese in the Congregationalist tradition, who worked among the Chinese in Malaya. She arrived in Penang in 1827 with her husband, Samuel Dyer. She was the eldest daughter of Joseph Tarn, Director of London Missionary Society. The Dyers lived in Malacca and then finally in Singapore. Maria was known for founding the oldest girls' school in Singapore and East Asia that still exists called Saint Margaret's Primary School. Her husband died in Macau in 1843 before being able to bring his family to live in China itself at Fuzhou. Maria Tarn was later remarried, to Johann Georg Bausum in 1845, but she died the following year at Penang, at age 43, and was buried in the Protestant Cemetery there. Dyer's orphaned daughter, Maria Jane Dyer, married James Hudson Taylor, the founder of the China Inland Mission.\n\nSamuel and Maria had five children: Maria Dyer (1829-1831), Samuel Dyer Jr. (1833-1898), Burella Hunter Dyer (1835-1858), Maria Jane Dyer (1837-1870), and Ebenezer Dyer (1842-aft. Oct. 1843).\n</div>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54368629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54368629", "title": "Maria Zhorella Fedorova", "text": "Maria Zhorella Fedorova\n\nMaria L. Zhorella Fedorova (known as Maria Zhorella), November 8, 1915 – April 21, 2017, was a leading lyric soprano at the Vienna State Opera, in the 1940s; also a political activist, vigorously opposing Nazism in Europe during World War II; and then, for three decades, a singing teacher in New York City.\n\nIn 1915, she was born into the aristocracy of Vienna, Austria to Luise Hubicki-Sas and Frank Brandstetter; and later grew up in Bratislava, Slovakia. When she was five, her strong-willed mother divorced her father despite society and the Catholic Church she attended forbidding it. And Maria was raised by Emil Prat, a step-father whom she loved.\n\nVienna, \"City of Music\" resounded with waltzes and symphonies; but as a child there was another music that also enchanted her, the trilling of birds. Their melodies would prompt her to get up, \"when everybody was sleeping\" and walk out onto her bedroom balcony where she would stand in the moonlight mesmerized by \"the ideal, the singing of nightingales and other winged creatures...I was thinking about singing all the time...also Galli-Curci's voice was always on my mind- the sweetness, the lightness, the emotion...\" \n\nAlthough unusual for a young woman of the upper class, with her parents' consent she began training in Vienna, as a singer. Her teacher, Wolfgang Steinbruch, \"had the upper tones- I loved the sound. He taught me to sing with proper vocal technique- but with emotion! And he focused on the resonance, the vibration, and to always find the support. I loved this. He allowed me to fly!\" A few years later, she was appearing on the radio performing Lieder and a cosmopolitan repertoire including folk songs in Slovakian, German, Hungarian, and Czech.\n\nWhile studying voice, she married Eugen Fodor, who encouraged her to pursue her musical career. It was becoming dangerous to be a Jew and although her husband had a high position in the Slovakian commerce and tourist bureau, his father was Jewish, therefore he soon had to flee their home in Bratislava for Sweden. And at the end of the war, while making his way back to Bratislava, by train, he was shot in the back and killed.\n\nIn 1944, at the age of twenty-nine, Fedorova (wife of Fodor) was invited to join the Vienna State Opera, one of the premier opera houses in the world. At first she played small roles. Among those she most enjoyed was Lola in Mascagni's Cavalleria Rusticana, and particularly the fat, ugly cook with big bosoms and false teeth in Eugen d'Albert's Tiefland (The Lowlands).\n\nShe was a favorite soprano of the Austro- Hungarian composer, Franz Lehar who soon cast her in the title role of his The Merry Widow (a role she did not originate); and when she played Angele in Lehar's Count of Luxembourg the critics declared it her great breakthrough, praising her tremendous success in the role.\n\nFrom the onset of World War II, Fedorova had also been part of the underground, hiding Jewish people in her cellar, escorting them to safety and providing them with forged papers. During this time she was able to save her Jewish teacher, Wolfgang Steinbruch, from internment in a concentration camp. But as a result of these activities, she was becoming a target for the Gestapo who eventually imprisoned and tortured her.\n\nA few years after the armistice, during the 1950s, she and her second husband, George Zhorella, emigrated to the United States and settled in New York City. The traumas of war had made it difficult for her to think about her past, including her life as a singer. And since she had come to associate the horrors of World War II with the sounds of the music she had made during those years, with a few exceptions, (such as her appearance on The Lipton Hour, where she sang the aria Vilja from The Merry Widow), she chose not to perform, and her career as a singer came to a close.\n\nIt was only through the urging of friends that finally, in the 1980s, she was able to consider re-entering the musical realm. And that is how The Zhorella Method of singing came into use, at Yale University and SUNY Purchase and then in her Upper West Side studio in Manhattan, where she received trainees from all over the world and the bouquets they brought her; and where she specialized in \"repairing damaged voices\" until a few weeks before her death on April 21, 2017 at the age of 101.\n\n\"Teaching is my life.\" (Maria Zhorella Fedorova, New York City, 2015)\n\nThe Zhorella Method is known for enabling singers even in their 1970s and older to sing with the voices they had when they were in their prime:\n\n\"Her style of teaching is one of infinite patience. And she is relentless and time and again would say, \"Do it again, do it again- sing deep, sing back, sing deep, sing back\". Once when we met at the Metropolitan Opera, she began giving me a lesson in the aisle. She asked, \"Are you singing deep? Are you singing back?\" And made me show her right there! She has changed my voice. Since I have established this technique with Maria I can sing and talk the night before and not be hoarse the next morning. And after five decades of performing, under Maria's tutelage I recently achieved my first high C, and did so with ease. Her method enables a singer's voice to stay young decades beyond what is considered its 'normal' life-span.\" (Cabaret and Concert Performer, Steve Ross, New York City, 2015)\n"}
{"id": "58651031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58651031", "title": "Marilyn Strutchens", "text": "Marilyn Strutchens\n\nMarilyn E. Strutchens (born 1962) is an African-American mathematics educator focusing on the training of secondary-school mathematics teachers and on equity issues in mathematics education. She has served as president of the Association of Mathematics Teacher Educators, and\nis Emily R. and Gerald S. Leischuck Endowed Professor for Critical Needs and Mildred Cheshire Fraley Distinguished Professor of Mathematics Education, and Program Coordinator for Secondary Mathematics Education in the Department of Curriculum and Teaching at Auburn University.\n\nStrutchens studied fashion merchandising as an undergraduate.\nShe was a middle school mathematics teacher before earning her doctorate in mathematics education, which she completed in 1993 at the University of Georgia. Her dissertation, \"Exploratory Study Of The Societal And Ethnic Factors Affecting Sixth Grade African American Students' Performance In A Mathematics Class\", was supervised by James W. Wilson.\n\nShe worked as an assistant professor at the University of Kentucky from 1993 to 1995 and at the University of Maryland, College Park from 1995 to 2000 before joining the Auburn faculty in 2000. She became Fraley Distinguished Professor in 2009, and Leischuck Endowed Professor in 2015.\n\nShe was president of the Association of Mathematics Teacher Educators for 2011–2013.\n\nStrutchens was selected to give the Judith E. Jacobs Lecture at the 2017 annual conference of the Association of Mathematics Teacher Educators.\n"}
{"id": "4794229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4794229", "title": "Marine mammal park", "text": "Marine mammal park\n\nA marine mammal park (also known as marine animal park and sometimes oceanarium) is a commercial theme park or aquarium where marine mammals such as dolphins, beluga whales and sea lions are kept within water tanks and displayed to the public in special shows. A marine mammal park is more elaborate than a dolphinarium, because it also features other marine mammals and offers additional entertainment attractions. It is thus seen as a combination of a public aquarium and an amusement park. Marine mammal parks are different from marine parks, which include natural reserves and marine wildlife sanctuaries such as coral reefs, particularly in Australia.\n\nSea Lion Park opened in 1895 at Coney Island in Brooklyn, New York City with an aquatic show featuring 40 sea lions. It closed in 1903.\n\nThe second marine mammal park, then called an oceanarium, was established in St. Augustine, Florida in 1938. It was initially a large water tank used to exhibit marine mammals for filming underwater movies, and only became later a public attraction. Today Marineland of Florida claims to be \"the world’s first oceanarium\".\n\nIn November 1961, Marineland of the Pacific on the Palos Verdes Peninsula, near Los Angeles in California was the first park to display an orca in captivity, although the orca died after two days.\nThe Vancouver Aquarium was responsible for the first orca ever held alive in captivity, Moby Doll, for 3 months in 1964.\n\nBetween the 1970s and the 1990s, technical advances and the public's increasing interest in aquatic environments prompted a shift to large marine mammal parks with cetaceans (mostly orcas and other species of dolphin) as attractions. Within this time SeaWorld USA evolved as the most prominent chain of marine mammal parks, with operations in Orlando, Florida, San Diego, California, San Antonio, Texas, and Aurora, Ohio (which has since closed down).\n\nMany animal welfare groups, such as the WSPA, consider keeping whales and dolphins in captivity a form of abuse. The main argument is that whales and dolphins do not have enough freedom of movement within their artificial environments. The existence of marine mammal parks is thus very controversially discussed.\n\nAlthough sizable pools for whales and dolphins require an extraordinarily technical and financial expenditure and are usually nearly impossible to provide and maintain, many marine mammal parks endeavour to improve the conditions of captivity and attempt to engage in public education as well as scientific studies. For that purpose many marine mammal parks joined together in the \"Alliance of Marine Mammal Parks and Aquariums\", an international association dedicated to high standard of care of marine mammals. It was founded in 1987 and established offices near Washington, DC, in 1992.\n\nIn 2010, the practice of keeping animals in captivity as trained show performers was heavily criticized when a trainer was killed by an Orca Whale at SeaWorld Orlando in Florida. Orcas attacks have been documented in the film \"Blackfish\", released in 2013. In 2015, the California Coastal Commission banned the breeding of captive killer whales.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9932917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9932917", "title": "Mathematics and Computing College", "text": "Mathematics and Computing College\n\nMathematics and Computing Colleges were introduced in England in 2002 as part of the Government's Specialist Schools Programme which was designed to raise standards in 8-secondary education. Specialist schools focus specifically on their chosen specialism but must also meet the requirements of the National Curriculum and deliver a broad and balanced education to all their pupils. Mathematics and Computing Colleges must focus on mathematics and either computing or ICT.\n\nColleges are expected to disseminate good practice and share resources with other schools and the wider community. They often develop active partnerships with local organisations and their feeder primary schools. They also work with local businesses to promote the use of mathematics and computing outside of school.\n\nIn 2007 there were 222 schools in England which were designated as specialist Mathematics and Computing Colleges. A further 21 schools have been designated in combined specialisms which include mathematics and computing, and 15 schools have a second specialism in Mathematics and Computing.\n\n"}
{"id": "7925289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7925289", "title": "McDonald's Video Game", "text": "McDonald's Video Game\n\nMcDonald's Video Game is a Flash online game published and developed by Italian-based La Molleindustria. It is described as an \"anti-advergame\", meaning a satire of various companies and its business practices.\n\n\"McDonald's Video Game\" is a parody of the business practices of the corporate giant McDonald's, taking the guise of a tycoon style business simulation game. The game presents the player with four views: The farmland, the slaughterhouse, the restaurant and the corporate HQ. Through each of these views, decisions can be made which will affect the fate of the player's company. In the game, the player plays the role of a McDonald's CEO, choosing whether or not to feed the player's cows genetically altered grain, plow over rainforests or feed the player's cattle to other cattle (a practice known to spread mad cow disease). The player can also choose advertising strategies and public official corruption to counteract opponents of the player's actions.\n\nSome choices within the game such as the opportunity to demolish villages or bribe public officials paint the corporation in a negative light. These aspects of the game are unflattering to McDonald's who issued a statement saying that the game \"has no association with McDonald's and is therefore a complete misrepresentation of our people and our values.\"\n\nOn some websites, La Molleindustria released a version of the game called \"Burger Tycoon\" which is exactly the same except that it eliminates all mention of McDonald's such as the franchise logo and a bear replacing the Ronald McDonald mascot. This was done in order to avoid copyright sanctions.\n\nThe game has been translated into nine languages; English, Spanish, Italian, Finnish, Danish, Turkish, Portuguese, French and German.\n\n"}
{"id": "1271753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1271753", "title": "Metropolitan University of Educational Sciences", "text": "Metropolitan University of Educational Sciences\n\nThe Metropolitan University of Educational Sciences ( (UMCE), is a public and traditional university located in the commune of Ñuñoa, Chile. It is the fourth oldest university in the country, founded in 1889 as college of the University of Chile.\n\nIgnacio Domeyko, scientist and professor of the National Institute José Miguel Carrera, manifests for the first time -during one year of 1842- the need to change the education system in Chile, inspired by the models that are being implemented in Europe where it was starting to develop a new science: pedagogy. At that time, Domeyko was a young immigrant in the university lessons around his homeland, particularly in Paris, France, he gave a lot of knowledge that was not limited to the natural sciences, if it was not an innovation in ideas for the organization that did not find education in this country, and that motivated him to start a slow but significant intellectual work.\n\nThe proposal of the Polish-nationalized Chilean teacher was that a normal school was created similar to the one he had known by the hand of the French philosopher Victor Cousin. In this project, use a dozen of the laws that were granted from the liberal government of Francisco Antonio Pinto and Diaz de la Puente to the National Institute in 1829, students from all over the country, settle in a special department of the prominent lyceum for two years, reviewing the studies that have already been taught in their schools, and then specialize in the area they are most interested in for another two years at the university.\n\nDiego Barros Arana, philosopher and historian, assumes the rector of the National Institute between 1863 and 1872. Noticing from the outset the lack of preparation of Chilean teaching staff, he also realized that even under the direction of this institution, which had the best national teachers (among them the professors Amunátegui, Vendel-Heyl, Lobeck, Pizarro) 14, the teaching was rough and did not have the didactics that he considered necessary. In this period, he would create a failed Teachers' Association.\n\nMany intellectuals were educated by this eminent historian (who before becoming rector, was professor since 1838 in which he is also his alma mater) among which Valentín Letelier, the main intellectual manager of the Pedagogical Institute, who would be strongly moved with the way of educating Arana, who never stopped visiting the classrooms or the students, concerned at all times not to be a simple minister of faith in charge of certifying a certain event, but to excite, interest and guide the intelligences educated.\n\nIts creation was firmly defended by numerous statesmen and teachers, among whom Don Valentín Letelier distinguished himself, who defended the Pedagogical with so much integrity that he even affirmed that suppressing it is making it impossible to train Chilean professors; is to make us perpetual tributaries of foreign pedagogy. Especially influenced by the aforementioned experience he had with Barros Arana during his basic studies:\n\"In Chile it is generally believed that any engineer can be a good teacher of mathematics, that every doctor is competent in the natural sciences, and that the teaching of the humanities is put in good hands when entrusted to lawyers. This is a very serious error because the most proper thing to assess the suitability of a teacher is not his knowledge, it is his didactics.\"\n\nManuel Montt would try to take up Domeyko's original idea of annexing the hypothetical Pedagogical Institute to the National Institute, which would award 20 scholarships for aspiring professors, but in doing so it would be inevitable to absorb the old establishment for the new one, as had happened before when the Instituto Nacional General José Miguel Carrera disarmed the entire building and academic body of the Royal University of San Felipe in 1813, so the idea was discarded.\n\nIn 1888, during the government of the liberal president José Manuel Balmaceda, the Minister of Justice, Worship and Public Instruction (equivalent to the current Ministry of Education) Federico Puga Borne - as well as Letelier, a former institute and former student of Professor Arana - builds the formation decree of the Pedagogical Institute of the University of Chile, which safeguarded the budget that allowed to give life to the project after 40 years of waiting. The sum was forty thousand Chilean pesos, and was signed the following year by the new minister Julio Bañados Espinosa on April 29, 1889.\n\nMinister Bañados contacted Valentín Letelier and Claudio Matte, who were members of the Chilean delegation in Germany between 1883 and 1885 where they studied the German education system (Matte served as a translator for Letelier, since he was the only one who handled the German language) to implement it in the institution. Later, the future teachers would be precisely Germans.\n\nThe pedagogical was born as a boarding school, free of charge and with the obligation to provide housing, food and board to the fellows. Education was divided into two axes: humanities and sciences. Humanities was separated into four courses: Castilian / Latin, French / Greek, English / German and History / Geography. While science would be divided into mathematics and natural sciences.\n\nLetelier knew how to channel and cement the aspirations in an establishment of international renown that took the name of Institute, since it was created under the auspices of the prestigious University of Chile, but with a modern constitution that favored research and teaching in topics related to the pedagogy, as it was used in European universities and institutes such as the Institute for Political Studies in Paris or the Colleges of Cambridge University. This model served as an example not only in Chile, where the University of Concepción highlighted with a department of teacher training created in 1919 with the same guidelines of El peda, but also in Latin America. They would be pioneers in pedagogical training in the continent. The work of the Pedagogical Institute was so important that about 80% of Chilean teachers were trained in these classrooms, coming to be considered one of the most prestigious teacher training centers in America. Numerous Pedagogical Missions were destined to form new Pedagogical Centers in other countries like Venezuela and Costa Rica.\n\nMinister Puga commissioned for the first time in 1888 the ambassador of Chile in Berlin, Domingo Gana Cruz, six professors of higher education: one of philosophy, one of history and geography, one third of philology, one quarter of mathematics, one fifth of physical sciences and a last of natural sciences. Thus, the ambassador understood that his future depended on the pedagogical, which for the founders of the institution, was ideal.\n\nA select group of German teachers with extensive experience was hired who with exclusive dedication could create their chairs and dedicate themselves to research, the first academic body of the Pedagogical Institute was constituted by a Chilean, Enrique Nercasseau and Morán, and by the German professors:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMost of the teachers who came to the old Pedagogical Institute did so, in part, due to the large number of European war conflicts and the exhaustive anti-Semitic persecution. On this, the famous Chilean philosopher Carla Cordua remembers her first year at the Ricardo Cumming Street house in the following way:\n\nWe had, due to the National Socialist racial persecution in Europe, many very prominent and famous Jewish professors, who came to Spanish-America, many to Argentina, others arrived to Chile, and in that sense, their misfortune was our luck, because We had fabulous teachers, completely exceptional for the general level of Chilean university studies. (...) these people were completely exceptional, and had been scammed from Europe, particularly in Germany, but also in other countries that are anti-Semitic to this day.\n\nDespite the insistence of Letelier in leaving the Pedagogical to the wing of the Faculty of Philosophy and Humanities of the University of Chile, only at the end of 1890 the house of studies accepted this request by order of the Council of Public Instruction. This fact is extremely important for the consolidation of the university status that still preserves the pedagogical profession. Until the end of the 19th century teachers had been trained very precariously in the Normal Schools of Chile. The management of the Institute was handed over to the German Fr Friedrich Richard Adelbart Johow18 and his first generation of professors graduated in 1896.\nThe minister of public instruction of Jorge Montt's government, Joaquín Rodríguez Rosas, issued the supreme decree No. 1554 creating the Application Lyceum, attached to the Pedagogical Institute, which began operating on March 28, 1892, with the objective of giving a space for new teachers to practice their skills with a select group of middle and upper class students from Santiago:\n\n\"(...) whose vacancies are disputed every year by hundreds of parents\"\n\nThe first rector of this annexed establishment was the German professor of philology, philosophy and pedagogy (graduated from the University of Jena and Leipzig), Mr. Jorge Enrique Schneider, who had installed the idea of the Liceo de Aplicación in a report delivered on October 10. 1890 to the Council of Professors of Chile with the support of the director of the Pedagogical Institute, the also German, Friedrich Richard Adelbart Johow.\n\nThe first classes of the lyceum were made in a small room located in Manuel Rodriguez street, and had the particularity that they taught subjects not taught in the pedagogical such as gymnastics, singing and drawing until the success of the project increased the initial enrollment of a couple of dozens to more than 100 students per year forced to buy an installation attached to the mansion of the Cumming house. Being so close to the central house of the Pedagogical Institute further improved its educational quality and prestige, positioning it at the level of such prestigious schools as the General National Institute José Miguel Carrera or the School of the Sacred Hearts of Santiago.\n\nThe creation of the Institute increased the enrollment of the University of Chile considerably. 15% of the enrolled (of a total 1056 for the year 1901) were future teachers, in 1900 there were 210 enrolled and in 1917 the number increased to almost 600. It should be noted that of the 1098 students housed the pedagogical in 1921 , more than half were women, becoming the first instance of massive female entry to the university in the country. This increase also meant difficulties, since the old mansion of Cumming with Alameda, which also housed a small number of students from the Lyceum of Application, could not cope and the rooms soon became insufficient. The lack of was such that even the Peda, being saturated, sporadically received students from the School of Pharmacy and the Dental School, belonging to the Faculty of Medicine.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1920s, the politics of Chile - and the world - would be confronted with new ideologies and movements that would surpass the traditional political parties completely. In this sense, the university student movement took a greater maturity to understand and deal with the issues that stressed the Chilean conflict, and that the possibility of socialism came to power for the first time in national history. The students at that time showed their disagreement with the prevailing political and social system and strongly supported the workers' movement. The Student Federation of the University of Chile, which was relatively new, was composed mainly of students of the Pedagogical Institute among which Rudecindo Ortega, José Domingo Gómez Rojas, Pedro León Loyola, Pablo de Rokha, Juan Gómez Millas (who would end disappointed) of the left and socialism, years later would form the Nationalist Union Party of Chile, a fascist movement) and above all, Eugenio González Rojas, philosophy student who came to preside over the FECH between 1922 and 1923 and was Minister of Education of the Republic Socialist of Chile (this former student also founded the Federation of Secondary Students of Santiago during his stay at the National General Institute José Miguel Carrera). Years later, González travels to Venezuela to create the Pedagogical Institute of Caracas. Upon returning he is appointed Director of the Pedagogical and later Rector of the University of Chile\n\nWith the twentieth century, Experimental Psychology began in Chile. This had a magnificent boom thanks to professors Guillermo Mann and J.E. Schnider who created the Laboratory of Experimental Psychology, which inaugurated the experimental movement in the country. Although, since 1889 both professors were teaching psychology, it was not until 1908 that Mann was appointed to buy modern instruments and bibliographical material in Europe, establishing in a solid manner the laboratory that aimed to have the characteristics that Wilhelm Wundt used in his University of Leipzig. This would be the first psychology laboratory in a Chilean university institution21 and Wundt himself would have oriented the two teachers to the selection of instruments. While most of the instruments came from Leipzig, there was also a considerable amount of material purchased in Berlin, Paris and Milan.\n\nDespite the good performance of this initiative, the lack of state funding (it stopped being subsidized in 1917) meant its early closure. Today, part of the laboratory survives in the Department of Psychology of the current Faculty of Social Sciences of the University of Chile. About these Guillermo Mann declared in a report to the Rector Valentín Letelier:\n\nThe office of the instruments destined for psychological research can not be other than that of fixing of an exact and measurable physical conditions relations with the psychological processes that are being studied (...) We can distinguish between the methods of the psychological experiment the categories : first, methods of stimulation. Second, methods of measuring the time of psychic processes. Third, methods of determining the expressions or manifestations of these processes. And fourth, methods of measuring physical phenomena, related to psychic facts indirectly\n\nMann's laboratory was reopened by Luis A. Tirapegui, a psychologist at Columbia University, who wanted to promote the advances of experimental psychology along the lines of his predecessor, the field of education and pedagogical initiatives such as the adaptation of the Binet-Terman scale to the Chilean context.20\n\nThis reopening encouraged other universities to create their own versions of the Pedagogical Laboratory, such as the Psychotechnology Laboratory of the University of Concepción, whose material was similar to the original. A laboratory was also born in the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile and the Normal School of Copiapó with which there were several intellectual clashes in which the liberal and conservative positions of each other clashed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33853973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33853973", "title": "Moore College Lectures", "text": "Moore College Lectures\n\nThe Moore College Lectures is a lecture series held at Moore Theological College, a theological training seminary in Sydney, Australia.\n\n1999 Richard T. France \"Divine Government: God's Kingship in the Gospel of Mark\" \n"}
{"id": "39775264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39775264", "title": "Museum of Light, Mexico City", "text": "Museum of Light, Mexico City\n\nThe Museum of Light (Spanish Museo de la Luz) is a science museum dedicated to the phenomena of light, located in the former San Ildefonso College in the historic center of Mexico City. It was opened in 1996 originally in the former church of the San Pedro y San Pablo College. However, this building was closed in 2010 in order to convert it into the Museum of the Constitutions. The Museum of Light was moved to its current and larger location, but it remains an extension of the Universum museum, the general science museum of the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México.\n\nThe Museum of Light is located in the “Colegio Chico” portion of the former San Ildefonso College. It operates as an extension of the Universum museum, the general science museum of the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México. The museum occupies two floors of the building, with most of the rooms dedicated to permanent exhibits and two others for temporary exhibits and shows.\n\nThe museum explores the different facets of light phenomenon and its relationships to various sciences. There are six major permanent exhibits along with an area to hold workshops. The Nature of Light exhibition explores the basic principles of light with exhibits that demonstrate its physics, the working of mirrors, the electromagnetic spectrum and a darkroom. The Light of the Stars exhibit focuses on the chemistry and other aspects of these celestial bodies and how they are discovered through the light they emit. A World of Colors focuses how colors are generated and perceived as well as how they are taken advantage of in nature. Light in the Arts reflects on how light, the illusion of light and color are used in this field. Light and the Biosphere focuses on how light is important to life, with photosynthesis as the basis for the food chain. The last section is called Vision, which focuses on how eyes work.\n\nThe museum was opened in 1996, originally in the former church of the San Pedro y San Pablo College, one block from the current location. This church building was renovated in the mid 1990s for the purpose of the museum after being abandoned for twenty years prior. The idea for the museum was the brainchild of Jorge Flores along with Ana María Cetto and Luis de la Peña, initiated the idea of creating a museum dedicated to electromagnetic radiation, commonly known as light.\n\nIn 2010, the decision was made to close the Museum of Light in that location and replace it with a museum dedicated to the various constitutions that Mexico has had since its independence as part of Mexico’s Bicentennial of Independence and Centennial of the Revolution. The building was closed in February of that year, and the Museo de las Constitutiones was opened in 2011. After closure, the future of the museum of light was in doubt. One proposal was to merge it into the Universum facility, but this was rejected due to fears that the museum would disappear completely. Instead, in late 2010, the decision was made to move the museum to another building in the historic center of Mexico City also owned by UNAM, the San Ildefonso College. The new space is larger than the old and the museum reopened in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "8993010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8993010", "title": "National Apprenticeship Act", "text": "National Apprenticeship Act\n\nThe National Apprenticeship Act (also known as the Fitzgerald Act), is a federal law in the United States which regulates apprenticeship and on-the-job training programs.\n\nApprentice programs in the U.S. were largely unregulated until 1934. After passage of the National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA), industry, trade unions and the National Recovery Administration cooperated to fashion various \"industry codes\" to govern competition, wages, working conditions and quality of products and services. One aspect of the general construction industry code was a set of rules regulating apprenticeship programs in the construction industry.\n\nThe NIRA was declared unconstitutional by the United States Supreme Court in May 1935.\n\nTo continue the work for the construction industry code authority in regard to apprenticeship programs, United States Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins established the Federal Committee on Apprenticeship. Composed of representatives from federal government agencies, Perkins tasked the committee to recommend federal policies regarding apprenticeships.\n\nIn 1937, the Congress passed the National Apprenticeship Act (29 U.S.C. 50), also known as \"the Fitzgerald Act.\" The Act established a national advisory committee whose task was to research and draft regulations to establish minimum standards for apprenticeship programs. The Act was later amended to permit the United States Department of Labor to issue regulations protecting the health, safety and general welfare of apprentices, and to encourage the use of contracts in the hiring and employment of them.\n\nThe Fitzgerald Act is administered by the Employment and Training Administration in the Department of Labor. The standards governing apprenticeship programs are located in the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations at Title 29, CFR Part 29. Regulations banning racial, ethnic, religious, age and gender discrimination in apprenticeship programs are located at Title 29, CFR Part 30.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4240852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4240852", "title": "National Coalition of Alternative Community Schools", "text": "National Coalition of Alternative Community Schools\n\nThe National Coalition of Alternative Community Schools, or NCACS, is an international organization based in the U.S. city of Ann Arbor, Michigan, dedicated to promoting alternative education. The organization was founded in 1978. It is known for its annual conferences, which bring together the community of community schools and homeschoolers and are held in a different location around the country each year. It also holds regional conferences. The NCACS also produces a directory of alternative community schools which it sells, as well as a quarterly newsletter.\n\nThe NCACS defines its membership as consisting of:\n\n\n\nA partial listing of NCACS member schools:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "773194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=773194", "title": "Niels Kaj Jerne", "text": "Niels Kaj Jerne\n\nNiels Kaj Jerne, FRS (23 December 1911 – 7 October 1994) was a Danish immunologist. He shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1984 with Georges J. F. Köhler and César Milstein \"for theories concerning the specificity in development and control of the immune system and the discovery of the principle for production of monoclonal antibodies\".\n\nJerne is known for three significant ideas. Firstly, instead of the body producing antibodies in response to an antigen, Jerne postulated that the immune system already has the specific antibodies it needs to fight antigens. Secondly, it was known that the immune system learns to be tolerant to the individual's own self. Jerne postulated that this learning takes place in the thymus. Thirdly, it was known that T cells and B cells communicate with each other.\n\nJerne's network theory proposed that the active sites of antibodies are attracted to both specific antigens (idiotypes) and to other antibodies that bind to the same site. The antibodies are in balance, until an antigen disturbs the balance, stimulating an immune reaction.\n\nHis ancestors had lived on the small Danish island of Fanø for centuries, but, in 1910, his parents moved to London where Jerne was born in 1911. \n\nDuring the First World War his parents moved to the Netherlands and Jerne spent his youth in Rotterdam. After studying physics for two years at the Leiden University, Jerne moved to Copenhagen and changed his studies to the field of medicine. He graduated from the University of Copenhagen with a degree in medicine in 1947. Four years later, he was awarded the doctorate for his thesis, \"A Study of Avidity Based on Rabbit Skin Responses to Diphtheria Toxin-Antitoxin Mixtures\".\n\nFrom 1943 to 1956 Jerne was a research worker at the Danish National Serum Institute and during this time he formulated a theory on antibody formation. It is said that Jerne got his revolutionary scientific idea while bicycling across the Langebro bridge in Copenhagen on his way home from work.\n\nThe antibody formation theory gave Jerne international recognition and in 1956 Jerne went to work for the World Health Organization in Geneva, where he served as the Head of the Sections of Biological Standards and of Immunology. He held this post for six years until moving to the United States and the University of Pittsburgh in 1962 to work as Professor of Microbiology and Chairman of the Department of Microbiology for four years. Jerne continued to do work for the World Health Organization as a member of the Expert Advisory Panel of Immunology from 1962 and onwards.\n\nIn 1966 Jerne moved back to Europe and took up the position of Professor of Experimental Therapy at the Johann Wolfgang Goethe University in Frankfurt. From 1966 to 1969 he was the Director of the Paul-Ehrlich-Institut, also in Frankfurt. In 1969 Jerne again switched jobs, this time to Basel in Switzerland, where he was the Director of the Basel Institute for Immunology until his retirement in 1980. During the 1970s and 1980s, Jerne was a pioneer in the development of immune network theory.\n\nAccording to Jerne's biographer Thomas Söderqvist, Jerne was not a bench scientist, could not pipette accurately, and did not enjoy experimental work. His Nobel Prize was awarded for theories, rather than discoveries. Jerne developed the \"natural selection theory of immunology\", proposed by Paul Ehrlich 50 years earlier, although he was missing the clonal selection element proposed by David Talmage and then by Frank Macfarlane Burnet. It was met by skepticism among his colleagues at first, James Watson for example told Jerne bluntly that his theory \"stinks\".\n\nJerne was married three times. He had two sons, Ivar Jerne (born 1936) and Donald Jerne (born 1941), with Tjek Jerne, a painter. Jerne had a third son, Andreas Wettstein, with Gertrud Wettstein, in 1971.\n\nAccording to Söderqvist, Tjek, 35, was distraught when she found out that Niels was having an affair with her best friend, Adda Sundsig-Hansen. Tjek had confided in Adda about her own affairs, and Adda had told Neils about them too. Niels demanded a divorce. Tjek begged him to stay. After he refused, she killed herself. Ivar woke up in the morning, smelled gas, and found his mother dead by the oven. Jerne reportedly treated his second wife like a servant and nanny. He was serially unfaithful to his wives.\n\n\nHe was awarded honorary doctorates from\n\nHe was a member of \n\n\n"}
{"id": "9430356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9430356", "title": "Optimist Brain Bowl", "text": "Optimist Brain Bowl\n\nThe Colorado-Wyoming Optimist Brain Bowl is a quizbowl type competition. It is presented by the Colorado-Wyoming Optimist Clubs, Denver Public Schools, and Boulder Valley Schools. It has two separate competitions, the North Region and Central Region competitions. It quizzes middle school children (6th, 7th, and 8th grades) on a variety of academic topics. As of 2008, the University of Denver no longer is a sponsor.\n\nThere are three regional competitions: the North, Central, and South Region Tournaments. They all have the same competition structure, described below. The top 6 teams from each grade level in each regional competition qualify for the Championship Tournament. The Championship Tournament has the same structure as the regional competitions.\n\nTeams of 6 students (maximum, though only 5 can compete in any given round) compete. The competition has 4 oral rounds of 30 questions each and a written round in the morning of the competition day. The written round has 50 questions. The top 8 scoring teams of each grade level move into the elimination rounds in the afternoon. The quarter-final and semi-final rounds are oral rounds, and they are head-to-head single elimination rounds. Eventually, two teams are escorted onto a stage for the championship round. The winner of this part of the two-team competition wins the contest for that grade level.\n\n"}
{"id": "57674882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57674882", "title": "P. Govindan Kutty", "text": "P. Govindan Kutty\n\nP. Govindan Kutty, usually known as Govindan Kutty or Guru Govindan Kutty, was a Kathakali artiste par excellence and dance guru.\n"}
{"id": "1930350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1930350", "title": "Pennsylvania Department of Education", "text": "Pennsylvania Department of Education\n\nThe Pennsylvania Department of Education is the executive department of the state charged with publicly funded preschool, K-12 and adult educational budgeting, management and guidelines. As the state education agency, its activities are directed by the governor appointed Pennsylvania's Secretary of Education. The agency is headquartered at 333 Market Street in Harrisburg. The Pennsylvania Department of Education oversees 500 public school districts public school districts of Pennsylvania, over 170ublic charter schools (2014), 14 public cyber charter schools, Career and Technology Centers/Vocational Technical schools, 29 public Intermediate Units, the education of youth in State Juvenile Correctional Institutions, Head Starts and publicly funded preschools in the Commonwealth (PreK Counts Keystone Stars) and 22 community colleges. In 2014, the Pennsylvania Department of Education employs approximately 600 persons.\n\nThe agency maintains a database of all education institutions in the Commonwealth with associated data. EdNA These entities include school districts and their schools, intermediate units, area vocational technical schools, charter schools, nonpublic and private schools, higher education institutions and more.\n\nFollowing passage and signing of the Free School Law on April 1, 1834, the Secretary of the Commonwealth acted as head of the Common School System until 1837. In that year a separate Department of Schools was created with a Superintendent of Common Schools as its chief officer. In 1873, the title was changed to Superintendent of Public Instruction, and greater responsibilities were assigned to that official and to the Department. In 1969, the name of the Department of Public Instruction was changed to the Department of Education, with the title of Superintendent of Public Instruction changed to the Secretary of Education. It previously ran the Pennsylvania State Board of Censors.\n\n\nThe mission statement of the Pennsylvania Department of Education is \"to assist the General Assembly, the Governor, the Secretary of Education and Pennsylvania educators in providing for the maintenance and support of a thorough and efficient system of education.\" The Department has broad discretionary powers in both the development and administration of educational policies which enhance the educational experience and quality in Pennsylvania. The Department also works as an ongoing study of the educational process within the state, conducting studies and programs designed to evaluate specific needs or qualities of the system. In doing so, the Pennsylvania Department of Education will recommend changes and improvements to the Governor, the Board of Education, and the General Assembly.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Department of Education also oversees policies of public libraries, academic libraries, and the State Library of Pennsylvania located in Harrisburg. It provides policy of equal opportunity in the educational system, with special regard to nonpublic education and state policy of education. It is within the Pennsylvania Department of Education's mission to collaborate with other state educational departments in an effort to create a cohesive and dynamic learning environment.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Department of Education operates a plethora of offices and participates in many state related agencies/Boards.\n\n\nPublic school kindergarten-12th grade enrollment as reported by the Pennsylvania Department of Education as of October 1 in each school year. \n\n\n\"Source:\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27763463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27763463", "title": "Periodic Videos", "text": "Periodic Videos\n\nThe Periodic Table of Videos (usually shortened to Periodic Videos) is a series of videos about chemical elements and the periodic table. They are published on YouTube and produced by Brady Haran, a former BBC video journalist, featuring Sir Martyn Poliakoff (\"The Professor\"), Peter Licence, Stephen Liddle, Debbie Kays, Neil Barnes, Sam Tang and others at the University of Nottingham.\n\nThe project began recording on 9 June 2008 and the initial videos were completed on 17 July 2008. The collection includes videos, each just a few minutes long, for all 118 known elements with a video for each element, as well as many additional supplemental chemistry videos. The 118 element videos and introduction videos were all shot unscripted in June and July 2008.\n\nSince the initial videos were completed in 2008 the team has been refining and uploading revised versions of the videos with new video and in higher resolutions. A key example of this revising is with the xenon video that was redone in honour of professor Neil Bartlett who died on 5 August 2008; Bartlett prepared one of the first xenon compounds, xenon hexafluoroplatinate.\n\nPoliakoff is the most visible presenter on the videos and his hair, reminiscent of Einstein or a mad scientist, is frequently commented upon in the videos. The combination of the professor's hair and amusing experiments has made these videos quite popular. Although uncertain what to think about the attention given to his hair, Professor Poliakoff is excited with the success of the videos, stating \"With a few hours of work, I have lectured to more students than I have reached in my entire career.\" The YouTube channel as of December 2017, has over 1 million subscribers and the videos have surpassed 170 million views. The YouTube channel is now one of the most popular chemistry related channels on all of YouTube. The producers of the videos have received praise from Nobel Laureates, chemistry professors, and the general public, says Professor Poliakoff. Chemistry Nobel Laureate Roald Hoffmann has even offered his praise of the videos, stating they \"are like the best reality show I've ever seen – the universe revealing itself, element by element.\"\n\nThe videos feature various experiments and demonstrations of the elements, some too dangerous to be performed in a classroom. Though the presenters take appropriate precautions when doing such experiments and provide adequate warnings, some scientists have criticized the dangerous experiments fearing people might try them at home and get hurt. The intent of the videos is to bring chemistry to a new generation of students and to get them enthused about science and understand how chemists think and what chemists are trying to do. Many school teachers now incorporate these videos into their classes, and the professor has even recorded video responses to some of the students' questions. Some of the most popular videos are those of sodium, potassium, and uranium.\n\n\"The Periodic Table of Videos\" team has had two live performances to date, the first in May 2009 at the Broadway Media Centre in Nottingham, and most recently in July 2010 at the EuroScience Open Forum (ESOF) in Turin, Italy.\n\nA grant from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council of £25,249 was awarded on 19 January, 2010 to extend the video library to include topical videos on molecules of general interest. The first of these new videos were on carbon dioxide and methane.\n\n\"The Periodic Table of Videos\" has filmed at least one video for each of the 118 elements (from hydrogen to oganesson). They have also filmed several videos that discuss molecules such as DO (heavy water) and sulfuric acid. Also filmed are \"Chem definitions\" that provide an explanation to words that are used in chemistry. Lastly, the team has filmed \"Roadtrips\" where they travel to different places in the world that have an importance in chemistry (such as the mine outside Ytterby, Sweden, which had four elements – yttrium, terbium, erbium, and ytterbium – named after it.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16891746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16891746", "title": "Ruth Isabel Seabury", "text": "Ruth Isabel Seabury\n\nRuth Isabel Seabury, was born on June 2, 1892, in Bangor in the U.S. state of Maine. She is the eldest of five siblings born to George Edwin Seabury, an executive with Boston Edison Power, and Emma Agusta Hodgdon.\n\nSeabury graduated from Smith College in 1914 and after two years teaching she was elected Young People's Secretary of the Congregational Woman's Board of Missions. Ten years later she became Educational Secretary of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, a position she held for many years. She was a delegate to the meeting of the International Missionary Council in Madras, India, in 1938. In 1940 she received an honorary Litt.D. degree from Elon College, North Carolina. She was involved in many missionary efforts and by the time she wrote \"Daughter of Africa\" her account of the work of South Africa's Mina Soga in 1945, she had visited twenty-three different countries.\n\nIn 1947 Seabury became the educational advisor for Doshisha University in Kyoto, Japan. She served for many years as an adviser to the Danforth Foundation which designed and implemented programs for the enhancement of religion on college campuses. In 1959 construction of the Seabury Memorial Chapel was completed at International Christian University in Tokyo, Japan. The chapel was named in honor of her contributions to the founding of the university. She was called \"an internationalist by instinct\" and was widely known within America and overseas as a speaker on interracial brotherhood and international fellowship, causes to which she dedicated her life. She never married and died at the age of 63 in Muskegon, Michigan.\n\nIn addition to authoring or co-authoring various pamphlets and speeches, Seabury wrote Our \"Japanese Friends\" (1927), \"Dinabandhu: A Background Book on India\" (1938), and \"What Kind of a World Do You Want?\" which were published by the Friendship Press, \"Flight to Destiny!\" (1945) published by the Association Press, and \"Daughter of Africa\" (1945) published by the Pilgrim Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "53578085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53578085", "title": "Scott Galloway (professor)", "text": "Scott Galloway (professor)\n\nScott Galloway (born November 3, 1964) is a clinical professor of marketing at the New York University Stern School of Business, and a public speaker, author, and entrepreneur. \n\nIn 2012, he was named one of the world's 50 best business school professors by Poets and Quants. He was elected to the World Economic Forum's \"Global Leaders of Tomorrow\", which recognizes 100 individuals under the age of 40 whose accomplishments have had impact on a global level.\n\nIn 2005 Galloway founded the digital intelligence firm L2 Inc, which was acquired in March 2017 by Gartner, and the now defunct Firebrand Partners (founded in 2005), an activist hedge fund that has invested over $1 billion in U.S. consumer and media companies. In 1997, Galloway founded Red Envelope, one of the earliest e-commerce sites. In 1992, he founded Prophet, a brand and marketing consultancy firm that employs over 400 professionals in the United States, Europe, and Asia. \n\nHe has served on the board of directors of Eddie Bauer, The New York Times Company, Gateway Computer, Urban Outfitters, and Berkeley's Haas School of Business. Galloway is also known for his public presentations and TED-style talks, called \"Winners & Losers\", in which he presents L2's Digital IQ Index results, ranking over 2,500 global brands across numerous dimensions including e-commerce, social media, and digital marketing.\n\nGalloway teaches brand management and digital marketing to second-year MBA students. Much of his research focuses on \"The Four,\" or \"the Four Horsemen.\" His first book, \"The Four: The Hidden DNA of Amazon, Apple, Facebook, and Google,\" was published in 2017. It analyzes the four companies' peculiar strengths and strategies, their novel economic models, their inherent rapacity, their ambition, and the drastic consequences of their rise that people face in both social and individual terms.\n\nAn avid proponent of public education, Galloway donated $4.4 million to Haas School of Business. The son of immigrants, he designated the Galloway Fellows Fund to provide scholarships to students from immigrant families. He also announced gifts to UCLA and New York University.\n\n"}
{"id": "56682752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56682752", "title": "Secondary Education Examination (Nepal)", "text": "Secondary Education Examination (Nepal)\n\nThe Secondary Education Examination, abbreviated SEE, is the final examination in the secondary school system of Nepal. National Examination Board upgraded from what was previously known as School Leaving Certificate (Nepal) or SLC. Every student must take this examination for completing the 10th grade of their study (According to new Education Act) before they join higher secondary or intermediate level education (12th grade). The SEE examination is said to be scheduled in March of every year. The government has a great determination that the new grading system that has been recently implemented in the SLC examination will help the country to increase the literacy rate. As the new Education Act, 2016 (2073) has been implemented, the SLC examination will be taken place in Grade 10 as national level examination whereas the examination of Grade 10 will be known as Secondary Education Examination (S.E.E).. This new Education Act was implemented from 2017 March with 538,000 students taking it.\n"}
{"id": "11250791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11250791", "title": "Ski Resort Tycoon II", "text": "Ski Resort Tycoon II\n\nSki Resort Tycoon II is a business simulation game in which the player must successfully create and run a ski resort. This is the second game in a series. The first, Ski Resort Tycoon was released a year earlier in Fall/Winter 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "57660910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57660910", "title": "Soka School System", "text": "Soka School System\n\nThe Soka School System (Japanese: 創価学園 Hepburn: Sōka Gakuen) is a Japanese corporate body that oversees a series of kindergartens, elementary schools, junior high schools, and high schools in Japan and several other countries as well as an educational support and research facility. It is part of a wider network of \"Soka\" schools which includes Soka University of Japan, Soka University of America, and Soka Women’s College. In addition, it has a supportive relationship with several non-affiliated schools and research associations in countries outside of Japan.\n\nIn order of their openings, the network includes Soka Junior and Senior High Schools (1968; Tokyo), Soka University (1971; Tokyo), Kansai Soka Junior and Senior High Schools (1973; Osaka), Sapporo Soka Kindergarten (1976), Tokyo Soka Elementary School (1978), Kansai Soka Elementary School (1982; Osaka), Soka Women’s College (1985; Tokyo), Soka University of America (1987, 2001), Hong Kong Soka Kindergarten (1992), Singapore Soka Kindergarten (1993), Malaysia Soka Kindergarten (1995), Brazil Soka (elementary and middle) School (2001), Brazil Soka Kindergarten (2001), and Soka Happiness Kindergarten of South Korea (2008). Also, one of Japan’s largest correspondence education programs is administered by Soka University in Tokyo.\n\nThe underlying educational philosophy and curriculum perspectives of the Soka School System has influenced the work of many educators in Japan and abroad.\n\nThe founder of the Soka School System is Daisaku Ikeda. The Soka School System receives financial support from the Soka Gakkai Buddhist society. The majority of students enrolled are members of the Soka Gakkai although no priority is given to members in admissions decisions. Its educational program is non-sectarian despite the Soka Gakkai’s relationship to Nichiren Buddhism. Its buildings and campuses have been noted as architecturally supportive of the schools’ stated philosophy, designed to be bright and expansive with scenic views.\n\nThe Soka School System’s educational philosophy, labeled “Soka education” or “value-creative education,” sets the goal of education as the realization of students' happiness. Realizing this vision on a broader scale, according to Ikeda, requires a paradigmatic shift from education being seen as supporting society to a vision of society serving the essential needs of education.\n\nThe mission of schools, according to Soka education, should be to protect the dignity of human life and human rights. Its methodology is based on “human education” rather than the more popularly used term “humanistic education.” Here, the teacher serves as a role model of pacifism, assuming the Buddhist function of a bodhisattva. The teacher’s role is to help students realize the inner dignity of their lives, nurture the will to live more strongly, and empathize with the pain of others. The curriculum has a strong focus on peace, human rights, sustainable development, and environmental education.\n\nThe roots of the Soka School System is traced to the pedagogical work of Tsunesaburo Makiguchi, a Japanese educator and geographer in the early 20th century whose first published works were books about geography and community studies education. He further developed his theories in praxis as a principal of five elementary schools in Tokyo. Makiguchi’s final book, ‘’The System of Value-Creating Pedagogy’’ (Jpn: Soka kyoikugaku taikei), was published in 1930. Here Makiguchi wrote about happiness, defined as the ability to create personal and social value, as the goal of both life and education. Josei Toda, Makiguchi’s colleague and disciple, experimented with Makiguchi's theories in an afterschool tutoring center he operated and also edited Makiguchi’s comments and notes into publishable form. In founding the Soka School System, Ikeda modernized and broadened Makiguchi’s vision of Soka education On his many visits to the Soka schools Ikeda modeled the types of caring for students he hoped staff members would embrace.\n\nKindergartens\n\n\nElementary schools\n\n\nJunior and senior high schools\n\n\nJunior colleges\n\nUniversity\n\n\nOne of the first western scholars to research Soka education and its applications was Dayle M. Bethel who wrote a biography of Makiguchi and who edited and translated his “Geography of Human Life” and “Value-Creating Education.” This was followed by Carl H. Gross’ anecdotal report on his visit to the newly formed Soka High School in Tokyo.\n\nQualitative research has emerged in the form of books, articles, and dissertations. Considerable textual analysis of the Ikeda corpus is taking place at the Institute for Daisaku Ikeda Studies at DePaul University’s College of Education. The Soka Education Research Initiative on Global Citizenship (SERI-GC) is a five-year research project launching at the University of Guelph-Humber in Canada the promotes study of the philosophy and practices of Soka education and its connection to global citizenship which is funded by the Japan-based Makiguchi Foundation for Education. An annual student-led conference about applications of Soka education takes place annually at Soka University of America.\n\nThe Soka Gakkai sponsors several research institutes:\n\n"}
{"id": "34319417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34319417", "title": "Stuart Robinson School", "text": "Stuart Robinson School\n\nStuart Robinson School was a settlement school in Blackey, Letcher County, Kentucky, established in 1913 as a Presbyterian mission. It closed in 1957, after graduating its last class in 1956.\n\nStuart Robinson School was established in 1913 by Rev. Dr. Edward O. Guerrant. A physician and evangelist, Guerrant was the founder of several schools and churches in eastern Kentucky. Guerrant is said to have been inspired to start a mission in Blackey after he encountered some boys swimming in the nearby river on a Sunday morning in 1910 and discovered that most of the boys had never heard of Sunday school, much less attended one. The school was named for Rev. Stuart Robinson, who had been a pastor of Louisville Second Presbyterian Church. Robinson was known for both his leadership role among border state Presbyterians during and after the Civil War and his interest in mission work in the mountains of eastern Kentucky. The school had 140 students when it opened.\n\nThe school was located on a campus served by the Rockhouse Branch of the L&N Railroad and by Kentucky Route 15. It also maintained a large farm to produce food for the school. School and farm buildings included dormitories and a dining hall, educational buildings, a library, a gymnasium, houses for teachers, and a dairy barn, silo, and milk house with equipment for pasteurization and refrigeration. By its final years, the campus expanded from 16 to .\n\nStuart Robinson School was coeducational and operated as a day and boarding school with twelve grades. Most students were enrolled in a work-study program, which the school called its \"Work Scholarship plan\", through which students could earn all or part of the cost of their education and board. Boys typically did farm and gardening work, installed fencing, fired the school's furnaces, worked at carpentry, or maintained plumbing and electrical wiring. Girls did cooking and housekeeping work in the school's kitchen, dining room and dormitories.\n\nThe school fielded interscholastic teams in football and basketball. Extracurricular activities included a glee club, a home economics club, and literary societies.\n\nThroughout its history, the school operated as a Presbyterian mission. In 1935 it was described as the Presbyterian church's largest school.\n\nThe school closed after Letcher County built public schools in the nearby community of Letcher. It graduated its last class in 1956 and closed in 1957, after which time the Southern Presbyterian Church sold the property. The school property is now used as Calvary Campus, a Christian camp, education facility, and retreat center.\n\nA school fundraising pamphlet stated that more than half of Stuart Robinson's graduates went on to college, and that many later returned to mountain communities in eastern Kentucky \"to teach school to their lesser-enlightened neighbors\" and sometimes \"organized Sunday Schools where they have never before existed.\" Notable alumni of the Stuart Robinson School include Juanita Kreps, U.S. Secretary of Commerce under President Jimmy Carter, and Gurney Norman, author and university professor whose novel \"Divine Right's Trip\" was published in serial form in the \"Whole Earth Catalog\".\n\n"}
{"id": "42609033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42609033", "title": "Swanwick writers' summer school", "text": "Swanwick writers' summer school\n\nThe Swanwick Writers' Summer School is an annual writers' conference held at The Hayes Conference Centre, near Swanwick, Derbyshire. Founded in 1948, and first held in the summer of 1949, it is believed to be the oldest independent writers' school in the world. Established as a charity and run on a not for profit basis, it was inspired by the London Writers Circle. Early celebrities that featured at the School included, Vera Brittain, L.P. Hartley, Hammond Innes and Arthur C. Clarke\nThe first chairman was Cecil Hunt, a chairman of the London Writers' Circle. Early delegates included the booker prize nominee, Barbara Pym, one of whose novels, \"No Fond Return of Love\", is inspired, in part, by Swanwick itself. Associated with the school for over fifteen years as member, host and lecturer was Booker Prize Winner Paul Scott. He refers to the role Swanwick plays in creative writing in his published essays.\n\nOver the years Swanwick has played an important role in the social development of creative writing.\n\nEstablished postwar, it formed part of the continuing process of democratization of writing begun by many amateur groups in the 1920s and 1930s. From its founding in 1948, the aim of the school has been to provide a social and educational framework for the development of creative writing skills. Its role in the establishment of creative writing in the UK has meant that it has been a platform for eminent speakers, from Hammond Innes in 1952 to Sir Terry Pratchett. It has also been closely associated with the development of women's writing. Members range from seasoned authors with numerous published books to those new to writing. The inclusive community is designed to enable the sharing of experiences, best practice and support for individual writers' creative writing.\n\nDerbyshire Record Office houses the school's historical records, reflecting its importance in the development of creative writing in the UK. These archives (ref: D5886) include the school minutes; comment books and correspondence.\n\nNoted authors who have been members of the school over the years include Eleanor Burford, John Boland, Barbara Pym, Vivian Stuart, Paul Scott, Nina Bawden, Carla Lane and Margaret Drabble.\n\nIn 2005, the School obtained a grant from Awards for All to launch the TopWrite project to support young writers and help close the gaps between the commercial, literary and academic writing worlds.\n\n"}
{"id": "8143988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8143988", "title": "Synchronous conferencing", "text": "Synchronous conferencing\n\nSynchronous conferencing is the formal term used in computing, in particular in computer-mediated communication, collaboration and learning, to describe technologies informally known as online chat. It is sometimes extended to include audio/video conferencing or instant messaging systems that provide a text-based multi-user chat function. The word \"synchronous\" is used to qualify the conferencing as real-time, as distinct from a system such as e-mail, where messages are left and answered later.\n\nSynchronous conferencing protocols include:\n\n\nAccording to the type of media used, synchronous conferencing can be divided into\n\nAccording to the number of access point used, synchronous conferencing can be divided into \n\nBoth synchronous and asynchronous conferencing are online conferencing where the participants can interact while being physically located at different places in the world. Asynchronous conferencing allows the students to access the learning material at their convenience while synchronous conferencing requires that all participants including the instructor and the students be online at the time of conference. \n\nWhile synchronous conferencing enables real time interaction of the participants, asynchronous conferencing allows participants to post messages and others can respond to it at any convenient time. Sometimes a combination of both synchronous and asynchronous conferencing is used. Both the methods give a permanent record of the conference. \n\nSome of the methods used in synchronous conferencing are:\n\nThere are four critical factors identified for implementing synchronous conferencing for effective instruction to the students\n\nSynchronous conferencing in education helps in the delivery of content through digital media. Since this is a real-time teaching, it also brings the benefits of face-to-face teaching in distance learning. Many higher education institutions offer well-designed quality e-learning opportunities. \nSome of the advantages of synchronous conferencing in education are: \n\nThe tools for implementing synchronous conferencing depends on the type of educational problem addressed. This is in turn decides the method of synchronous conferencing to be used and the tool to be used in the learning context. The tool selected addresses the problem of improving the learning outcomes which cannot be solved with an asynchronous environment. There are many tools and platforms available for synchronous conferencing.\nThe selection of tools and platforms also depend on the group size which depends on the activity for the course design.\n\nTo make synchronous conferencing effective and engaging, appropriate teaching strategies are important and plays a very important role in making the learning successful. Some of these are \n\nSome limitations for synchronous conferencing in learning are: \n\n"}
{"id": "28383271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28383271", "title": "System (journal)", "text": "System (journal)\n\nSystem () is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering the applications of educational technology and applied linguistics to problems of foreign language teaching and learning. It was established in 1973 and is published quarterly by Elsevier. The Co-Editors-in-Chief are, in alphabetical order, Xuesong (Andy) Gao (University of New South Wales), Marta González-Lloret (University of Hawaii at Manoa), Ursula Stickler (Open University), and Lawrence Jun Zhang (University of Auckland). Until 2013, \"System\" published four issues per year. In 2014, it published six issues, and since 2015, it has published eight issues per year.\n\nThe most recent CiteScore (2017) is 1.76, ranking it in the top 8% of journals in the field, at 45th out of 618 journals in \"Language and Linguistics\" in the Arts and Humanities category, and 50th out of 671 journals in \"Linguistics and Language\" in the Social Sciences category.\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", in 2016 the journal had an impact factor of 1.400, ranking it 34th out of 182 journals in the category \"Linguistics\" and 78th out of 235 journals in the category \"Education & Educational Research\". This is a substantial increase from the previous year: the 2015 impact factor was 0.834 (70th out of 181 linguistics journals).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4627862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4627862", "title": "The Woodwright's Shop", "text": "The Woodwright's Shop\n\nThe Woodwright's Shop is a traditional woodworking show hosted by master carpenter Roy Underhill on PBS in the United States. It is one of the longest running \"how to\" shows on PBS, with thirty-five 13-episode seasons filmed. Since its debut in 1979, the show has aired over 400 episodes. The first two seasons were broadcast only on public TV in North Carolina; the season numbering was restarted when the show went national in 1981. It is still filmed at the UNC-TV (University of North Carolina Center for Public Television) studios in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina.\n\n\"The Woodwright's Shop\" teaches the art of traditional woodworking, using hand tools and human-powered machines. Viewers learn how to make furniture, toys, and other useful objects out of wood. Viewers also learn how to lay out wood projects and which tools to use for specific purposes. The show also teaches how to use tools properly.\n\nThe host, Roy Underhill, instructs viewers on creating wooden joints using hand tools and machine tools.\n\nUnderhill often shows the viewers how to create several useful and strong wooden joints, which are commonly used in carpentry.\nTimber framing techniques are often used in conjunction with the wood joints described on the show.\n\nHand tools are a major focus of the show. All of the hand tools used on the show are manually operated (i.e. non-electric).\nProper handling and maintenance of tools is also part of the show. This includes sharpening tools and sometimes making tools, such as a scraper made from an old saw blade.\n\nThe most commonly used machine tool on the show is the lathe. Underhill typically uses a treadle lathe, but has also shown the viewers how to build and operate a spring pole lathe. He also often uses a gouge, in conjunction with his lathe, to remove material and smooth out a work piece.\n\nOne of the simplest types of machines used on the show is a miter box. This is used to create square and perpendicular saw cuts, or saw cuts at a specific angle.\n\nThe show started as an idea that Roy Underhill had in 1976. He built a workshop and historic museum in Durham, North Carolina, in the mid-1970s. He called it \"The Woodwright's Shop\" and started teaching classes on how to build things out of wood.\n\nUnderhill pitched the show idea to the PBS affiliate in Chapel Hill in 1978 but was rejected. He tried again in 1979 and filmed a pilot. Only in the fall of 1979 was the show accepted. 1979 was the same year that \"This Old House\" started airing on PBS. Underhill admits that he made up the term \"woodwright\" and that it is not an actual term. Initially, he was concerned about using the made-up term in the show's title, but decided to use it anyway.\n\nThe show has a tight filming schedule. The show does not have a real script; instead, Underhill works out the story he is going to present and how to do it. He decides where camera shots are needed and sets work pieces and tools in those locations. The filming of different shots is limited to three takes because of the limit of work pieces used on the show.\n\nIn recent years, the show is filmed in one take with no editing and as a result, the host is often out of breath by the end of the 24 minute program.\n\nThe show also does not hide the nicks and cuts that come from wood-working with hand tools. The first such incident occurred in the third episode of the series, \"Dumbheads in Action\". A \"dumbhead\" is a clamping fixture on a foot operated shaving horse used to hold unseasoned (\"green\") wood.\n\nOn one occasion, Roy seriously injured his hand with a hatchet. The scene was kept in the show because it was the last take of this particular scene. Underhill reviewed the take and felt it gave the show some realism.\n\n\nRoy Underhill is the host and creator of \"The Woodwright's Shop\". He graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill with a B.F.A. in theater direction. Roy went to Duke University for environmental studies in the mid-1970s. For his thesis, he did a live presentation titled \"How to start with a tree and an axe and build your house and everything in it.\" Somebody told him \"You ought to do that on TV\", when he was finished with his presentation.\n\nHe went on to work at Colonial Williamsburg as a carpenter, building houses the way they were built in the 18th century. During this same time, he also started producing \"The Woodwright's Shop\" television show for PBS. For 10 years, Underhill was a master housewright for Colonial Williamsburg. He helped with program development for another five years before he left over a disagreement about the authenticity of slave quarters on the project.\n\nRoy has written several books on woodworking, most of which have been published by the University of North Carolina Press. Some of the books include, \"The Woodwright’s Shop: A Practical Guide to Traditional Woodcraft\" () and \"The Woodwright’s Guide: Working Wood with Wedge and Edge\" ().\n\nRoy lent his woodworking expertise to the 2005 movie, \"The New World\", about the founding of the settlement in Jamestown, Virginia, in the 17th century. He also taught actor Colin Farrell about woodworking for the film and acted as an extra in the movie.\n\nRoy has had a wide range of woodworking professionals as guests on his show from many different fields of woodworking, Frank Klausz, Nora Hall, Steve Latta, David Calvo, Michael Dunbar, Dan Mack, Don Weber, Wayne Barton and Curtis Buchanan as well as many less well known specialists in the fields of tinsmithing, spoon carving, cooperage (barrels, buckets, canteens), lutherie (stringed instruments), whirligigs, archery, puppetry, basket making, spinning wheels and blacksmithing. Guests have also included famous people with a woodworking hobby such as Governor Mike Easley. Roy's wife and children have appeared on various episodes over the show’s over thirty-year span of production.\n\nEach season of \"The Woodwright's Shop\" consists of 13 episodes broadcast during the last 13 weeks of the year, typically starting at the beginning of October.\n\nThe show was first released on VHS tapes in 1993. In April 2012, Popular Woodworking announced an exclusive deal to bring the show to DVD, beginning with the first three seasons and Season 20. The current season of the show can be watched online at the PBS video website. Also, the last few seasons of the show can be watched online at the official website.\n\n"}
{"id": "679067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=679067", "title": "Todd Duncan", "text": "Todd Duncan\n\nRobert Todd Duncan (February 12, 1903 – February 28, 1998) was an American baritone opera singer and actor. One of the first African-Americans to sing with a major opera company, Duncan is also noted for appearing as Porgy in the premier production of \"Porgy and Bess\" (1935).\n\nAs Robert Todd Duncan, he was born 12 February 1903 in Danville, Kentucky to John and Lettie (Cooper) Duncan. They were married in Danville 1901, he being born in Danville, and she born in Frankfort. John was a garage owner and Lettie was a music teacher. He obtained his musical training at Butler University in Indianapolis with a B.A. in music followed by an M.A. from Columbia University Teachers College.\n\nIn 1933, Duncan debuted in Pietro Mascagni's \"Cavalleria rusticana\" at the Mecca Temple in New York with the Aeolian Opera, a black opera company.\n\nDuncan was George Gershwin's personal choice as the first performer of the role of Porgy in \"Porgy and Bess\" in 1935 and played the role more than 1,800 times. He led the cast during the Washington run of \"Porgy and Bess\" at the National Theatre in 1936, to protest the theatre's policy of segregation. Duncan stated that he \"would never play in a theater which barred him from purchasing tickets to certain seats because of his race.\" Eventually management would give into the demands and allow for the first integrated performance at National Theatre. Duncan was also the first performer for the role of Stephen Kumalo in Kurt Weill's \"Lost in the Stars.\"\n\nIn 1938, Duncan appeared on the London stage at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane in C.B.Cochran's musical production \"The Sun Never Sets\". The cast included fellow American Adelaide Hall, Leslie Banks, Edna Best and Stewart Granger. The musical was adapted by Pat Wallace and Guy Bolton from various stories written by Edgar Wallace and the show included original music by Cole Porter. Costumes were designed by Elizabeth Haffenden. One of the numbers Duncan sang was 'River God'. After the London run closed, Duncan and Adelaide Hall from the original cast toured Britain with the production.\n\nDuncan taught voice at Howard University in Washington, D.C. for more than fifty years. While teaching at Howard, he continued touring as a soloist with pianists William Duncan Allen and George Malloy. He had a very successful career as a concert singer with over 2,000 performances in 56 countries. He retired from Howard and opened his own voice studio teaching privately and giving periodic recitals.\n\nIn 1945, he became the first African American to sing with a major opera company, and the first black person to sing in an opera with an otherwise white cast, when he performed the role of Tonio in Leoncavallo's \"Pagliacci\" with the New York City Opera. In the same year he sang the role of Escamillo, the bullfighter, in Bizet's \"Carmen\". In 1955, Duncan was the first to record \"Unchained Melody\", a popular song with music by Alex North and lyrics by Hy Zaret. The recording was made for the soundtrack of the obscure prison film \"Unchained\", in which Duncan also played a minor character. Following Duncan's version, the song went on to become one of the most recorded songs of the 20th century.\n\nIn his final interview, Todd Duncan spoke of his love for spirituals: \"... spirituals are so deep inside of me, it's difficult for me to find words that are meaningful. Spirituals are a part of whatever I am. When I sing them my being sings them, not my throat... It is very difficult for me to put into words something that is at the bottom of my very being.\"\n\nIn addition to singing, Duncan was also a voice teacher. Among his notable pupils was operatic bass Philip Booth who was a mainstay at the Metropolitan Opera for two decades.\n\nIn 1978, the Washington Performing Arts Society presented his 75th birthday gala. Duncan was awarded the George Peabody Medal of Music from the Peabody Conservatory of Music of Johns Hopkins University in 1984. Other awards he received include a medal of honor from Haiti, an NAACP award, the Donaldson Award, the New York Drama Critics' Award for \"Lost in the Stars\", and honorary doctorates from Valparaiso University and Butler University.\n\nDuncan was a member of Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity.\n\nHe died of a heart ailment at his home in Washington, D.C., in 1998.\n\n\n\n"}
