{"id": "10798969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10798969", "title": "1553 in music", "text": "1553 in music\n\nThis is a list of notable events in music that took place in 1553.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23580511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23580511", "title": "20th-century Western painting", "text": "20th-century Western painting\n\n20th-century Western painting begins with the heritage of late-19th-century painters Vincent van Gogh, Paul Cézanne, Paul Gauguin, Georges Seurat and Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, and others who were essential for the development of modern art. At the beginning of the 20th century, Henri Matisse and several other young artists including the pre-cubist Georges Braque, André Derain, Raoul Dufy and Maurice de Vlaminck revolutionized the Paris art world with \"wild\", multi-colored, expressive landscapes and figure paintings that the critics called Fauvism. Matisse's second version of \"The Dance\" signified a key point in his career and in the development of modern painting. It reflected Matisse's incipient fascination with primitive art: the intense warm color of the figures against the cool blue-green background and the rhythmical succession of the dancing nudes convey the feelings of emotional liberation and hedonism.\n\nInitially influenced by Toulouse-Lautrec, Gauguin, and other late-19th-century innovators, Pablo Picasso made his first cubist paintings based on Cézanne's idea that all depiction of nature can be reduced to three solids: cube, sphere and cone. With the painting \"Les Demoiselles d'Avignon\" (1907; see gallery) Picasso created a new and radical picture depicting a raw and primitive brothel scene with five prostitutes, violently painted women, reminiscent of African tribal masks and his own new proto-Cubist inventions. Analytic cubism, exemplified by \"Violin and Candlestick, Paris\", was jointly developed by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque from about 1908 through 1912. Analytic cubism was followed by Synthetic cubism, characterized by the introduction of different textures, surfaces, collage elements, papier collé and a large variety of merged subject matter.\n\nCrystal Cubism was a distilled form of Cubism consistent with a shift between 1915 and 1916 towards a strong emphasis on flat surface activity and large overlapping geometric planes, practised by Braque, Picasso, Jean Metzinger, Albert Gleizes, Juan Gris, Diego Rivera, Henri Laurens, Jacques Lipchitz, Alexander Archipenko, Fernand Léger and several other artists into the 1920s.\n\nDuring the years between 1910 and the end of World War I and after the heyday of cubism, several movements emerged in Paris. Giorgio de Chirico moved to Paris in July 1911, where he joined his brother Andrea (the poet and painter known as Alberto Savinio). Through his brother he met Pierre Laprade, a member of the jury at the Salon d'Automne, where he exhibited three of his dreamlike works: \"Enigma of the Oracle\", \"Enigma of an Afternoon\" and \"Self-Portrait\". During 1913 he exhibited his work at the Salon des Indépendants and Salon d’Automne, where his work was noticed by Pablo Picasso, Guillaume Apollinaire, and others. His compelling and mysterious paintings are considered instrumental to the early beginnings of Surrealism. \"Song of Love\" (1914) is one of the most famous works by de Chirico and is an early example of the surrealist style, though it was painted ten years before the movement was \"founded\" by André Breton in 1924.\n\nIn the first two decades of the 20th century, as Cubism evolved, several other important movements emerged; Futurism (Balla), Abstract art (Kandinsky), Der Blaue Reiter (Wassily Kandinsky and Franz Marc), Bauhaus (Kandinsky and Klee), Orphism, (Delaunay and Kupka), Synchromism (Russell and Macdonald-Wright), De Stijl (van Doesburg and Mondrian), Suprematism (Malevich), Constructivism (Tatlin), Dadaism (Duchamp, Picabia and Arp), and Surrealism (de Chirico, André Breton, Miró, Magritte, Dalí and Ernst). Modern painting influenced all the visual arts, from Modernist architecture and design, to avant-garde film, theatre and modern dance and became an experimental laboratory for the expression of visual experience, from photography and concrete poetry to advertising art and fashion. Van Gogh's painting exerted great influence upon 20th-century Expressionism, as can be seen in the work of the Fauves, Die Brücke (a group led by German painter Ernst Kirchner), and the Expressionism of Edvard Munch, Egon Schiele, Marc Chagall, Amedeo Modigliani, Chaim Soutine and others.\n\nWassily Kandinsky, a Russian painter, printmaker and art theorist, is generally considered the first important painter of modern abstract art. As an early modernist, in search of new modes of visual expression, and spiritual expression, he theorized—as did contemporary occultists and theosophists—that pure visual abstraction had corollary vibrations with sound and music. They posited that pure abstraction could express pure spirituality. His earliest abstractions were generally titled (as the example in the above gallery) \"Composition VII\", making connection to the work of the composers of music. Kandinsky included many of his theories about abstract art in his book \"Concerning the Spiritual in Art\". Piet Mondrian's art was also related to his spiritual and philosophical studies. In 1908 he became interested in the theosophical movement launched by Helena Petrovna Blavatsky in the late 19th century. Blavatsky believed that it was possible to attain a knowledge of nature more profound than that provided by empirical means, and much of Mondrian's work for the rest of his life was inspired by his search for that spiritual knowledge. Other major pioneers of early abstraction include Swedish painter Hilma af Klint, Russian painter Kazimir Malevich, and Swiss painter Paul Klee. Robert Delaunay was a French artist who is associated with Orphism, (reminiscent of a link between pure abstraction and cubism). His later works were more abstract, reminiscent of Paul Klee. His key contributions to abstract painting refer to his bold use of color, and a clear love of experimentation of both depth and tone. At the invitation of Kandinsky, Delaunay and his wife the artist Sonia Delaunay, joined The Blue Rider (Der Blaue Reiter), a Munich-based group of abstract artists, in 1911, and his art took a turn to the abstract. Still other important pioneers of abstract painting include Czech painter, František Kupka as well as American artists Stanton Macdonald-Wright and Morgan Russell who, in 1912, founded Synchromism, an art movement that closely resembles Orphism.\n\nLes Fauves (French for \"The Wild Beasts\") were early-20th-century painters, experimenting with freedom of expression through color. The name was given, humorously and not as a compliment, to the group by art critic Louis Vauxcelles. Fauvism was a short-lived and loose grouping of artists whose works emphasized painterly qualities and the imaginative use of deep color over the representational values. Fauvists made the subject of the painting easy to read and exaggerated perspectives. A prescient prediction of the Fauves was expressed in 1888 by Paul Gauguin to Paul Sérusier:\n\n\"How do you see these trees? They are yellow. So, put in yellow; this shadow, rather blue, paint it with pure ultramarine; these red leaves? Put in vermilion.\"\n\nThe leaders of the movement were Henri Matisse and André Derain—friendly rivals of a sort, each with his own followers. Ultimately Matisse became the \"yang\" to Picasso's \"yin\" in the 20th century. Fauvist painters included Albert Marquet, Charles Camoin, Maurice de Vlaminck, Raoul Dufy, Othon Friesz, the Dutch painter Kees van Dongen, and Picasso's partner in Cubism, Georges Braque amongst others.\n\nFauvism, as a movement, had no concrete theories, and was short lived, beginning in 1905 and ending in 1907. The Fauves had only three exhibitions. Matisse was seen as the leader of the movement, due to his seniority in age and prior self-establishment in the academic art world. His 1905 portrait of Mme. Matisse, \"The Green Line\" (above), caused a sensation in Paris when it was first exhibited. He said he wanted to create art to delight; art as a decoration was his purpose and it can be said that his use of bright colors tries to maintain serenity of composition. In 1906 at the suggestion of his dealer Ambroise Vollard, André Derain went to London and produced a series of paintings like \"Charing Cross Bridge, London\" (above) in the Fauvist style, paraphrasing the famous series by the Impressionist painter Claude Monet.\nBy 1907 Fauvism no longer was a shocking new movement, soon it was replaced by Cubism on\nthe critics radar screen as the latest new development in Contemporary Art of the time.\nIn 1907 Appolinaire, commenting about Matisse in an article published in La Falange, said, \"We are not here in the presence of an extravagant or an extremist undertaking: Matisse's art is eminently reasonable.\"\n\nDer Blaue Reiter was a German movement lasting from 1911 to 1914, fundamental to Expressionism, along with Die Brücke, a group of German expressionist artists formed in Dresden in 1905. Founding members of Die Brücke were Fritz Bleyl, Erich Heckel, Ernst Ludwig Kirchner and Karl Schmidt-Rottluff. Later members included Max Pechstein, Otto Mueller and others. This was a seminal group, which in due course had a major impact on the evolution of modern art in the 20th century and created the style of Expressionism.\n\nWassily Kandinsky, Franz Marc, August Macke, Alexej von Jawlensky, whose psychically expressive painting of the Russian dancer \"Portrait of Alexander Sakharoff,\" 1909 is in the gallery above, Marianne von Werefkin, Lyonel Feininger and others founded the Der Blaue Reiter group in response to the rejection of Kandinsky's painting \"Last Judgement\" from an exhibition. Der Blaue Reiter lacked a central artistic manifesto, but was centered around Kandinsky and Marc. Artists Gabriele Münter and Paul Klee were also involved.\n\nThe name of the movement comes from a painting by Kandinsky created in 1903. It is also claimed that the name could have derived from Marc's enthusiasm for horses and Kandinsky's love of the colour blue. For Kandinsky, \"blue\" is the colour of spirituality: the darker the blue, the more it awakens human desire for the eternal.\n\n\"Expressionism\" and \"Symbolism\" are broad rubrics encompassing several important and related movements in 20th-century painting that dominated much of the avant-garde art being made in Western, Eastern, and Northern Europe. Expressionist works were painted largely between World War I and World War II, mostly in France, Germany, Norway, Russia, Belgium, and Austria. Expressionist styles are related to those of both Surrealism and Symbolism and are each uniquely and somewhat eccentrically personal. Fauvism, Die Brücke, and Der Blaue Reiter are three of the best known groups of Expressionist and Symbolist painters. Artists as interesting and diverse as Marc Chagall, whose painting \"I and the Village,\" (above) tells an autobiographical story that examines the relationship between the artist and his origins, with a lexicon of artistic Symbolism. Gustav Klimt, Egon Schiele, Edvard Munch, Emil Nolde, Chaim Soutine, James Ensor, Oskar Kokoschka, Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, Max Beckmann, Franz Marc, Käthe Schmidt Kollwitz, Georges Rouault, Amedeo Modigliani and some of the Americans abroad like Marsden Hartley, and Stuart Davis, were considered influential expressionist painters. Although Alberto Giacometti is primarily thought of as an intense Surrealist sculptor, he made intense expressionist paintings as well.\nIn the USA during the period between World War I and World War II painters tended to go to Europe for recognition. Modernist artists like Marsden Hartley, Patrick Henry Bruce, Gerald Murphy and Stuart Davis, created reputations abroad. While Patrick Henry Bruce, created cubist related paintings in Europe, both Stuart Davis and Gerald Murphy made paintings that were early inspirations for American pop art and Marsden Hartley experimented with expressionism. During the 1920s photographer Alfred Stieglitz exhibited Georgia O'Keeffe, Arthur Dove, Alfred Henry Maurer, Charles Demuth, John Marin and other artists including European Masters Henri Matisse, Auguste Rodin, Henri Rousseau, Paul Cézanne, and Pablo Picasso, at his New York City gallery \"the 291\". In Europe masters like Henri Matisse and Pierre Bonnard continued developing their narrative styles independent of any movement.\n\n \nMarcel Duchamp came to international prominence in the wake of the New York City Armory Show in 1913 where his \"Nude Descending a Staircase\" became the cause celebre. He subsequently created \"The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even, Large Glass\". The \"Large Glass\" pushed the art of painting to radical new limits being part painting, part collage, part construction. Duchamp (who was soon to renounce artmaking for chess) became closely associated with the Dada movement that began in neutral Zürich, Switzerland, during World War I and peaked from 1916 to 1920. The movement primarily involved visual arts, literature (poetry, art manifestoes, art theory), theatre, and graphic design, and concentrated its anti war politic through a rejection of the prevailing standards in art through anti-art cultural works. Francis Picabia, Man Ray, Kurt Schwitters, Tristan Tzara, Hans Richter, Jean Arp, Sophie Taeuber-Arp, along with Duchamp and many others are associated with the Dadaist movement. Duchamp and several Dadaists are also associated with Surrealism, the movement that dominated European painting in the 1920s and 1930s.\nIn 1924 André Breton published the \"Surrealist Manifesto.\" The Surrealist movement in painting became synonymous with the avant-garde and which featured artists whose works varied from the abstract to the super-realist. With works on paper like \"Machine Turn Quickly,\" (above) Francis Picabia continued his involvement in the Dada movement through 1919 in Zürich and Paris, before breaking away from it after developing an interest in Surrealist art. Yves Tanguy, René Magritte and Salvador Dalí are particularly known for their realistic depictions of dream imagery and fantastic manifestations of the imagination. Joan Miró's \"The Tilled Field\" of 1923–1924 verges on abstraction, this early painting of a complex of objects and figures, and arrangements of sexually active characters; was Miró's first Surrealist masterpiece. The more abstract Joan Miró, Jean Arp, André Masson, and Max Ernst were very influential, especially in the United States during the 1940s.\n\nThroughout the 1930s, Surrealism continued to become more visible to the public at large. A Surrealist group developed in Britain and, according to Breton, their 1936 London International Surrealist Exhibition was a high-water mark of the period and became the model for international exhibitions. Surrealist groups in Japan, and especially in Latin America, the Caribbean and in Mexico produced innovative and original works.\n\nDalí and Magritte created some of the most widely recognized images of the movement. The 1928/1929 painting \"This Is Not A Pipe\" by Magritte is the subject of a Michel Foucault 1973 book, \"This is not a Pipe\" (English edition, 1991), that discusses the painting and its paradox. Dalí joined the group in 1929, and participated in the rapid establishment of the visual style between 1930 and 1935.\n\nSurrealism as a visual movement had found a method: to expose psychological truth by stripping ordinary objects of their normal significance, in order to create a compelling image that was beyond ordinary formal organization, and perception, sometimes evoking empathy from the viewer, sometimes laughter and sometimes outrage and bewilderment.\n\n1931 marked a year when several Surrealist painters produced works which marked turning points in their stylistic evolution: in one example liquid shapes become the trademark of Dalí, particularly in his \"The Persistence of Memory\", which features the image of watches that sag as if they are melting. Evocations of time and its compelling mystery and absurdity.\n\nThe characteristics of this style – a combination of the depictive, the abstract, and the psychological – came to stand for the alienation which many people felt in the modernist period, combined with the sense of reaching more deeply into the psyche, to be \"made whole with one's individuality.\"\n\nMax Ernst studied philosophy and psychology in Bonn and was interested in the alternative realities experienced by the insane. His paintings, such as \"Murdering Airplane\" (1920), may have been inspired by the psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud's study of the delusions of a paranoiac, Daniel Paul Schreber. Freud identified Schreber's fantasy of becoming a woman as a \"castration complex\". The central image of two pairs of legs refers to Schreber's hermaphroditic desires. Ernst's inscription on the back of the painting reads: \"The picture is curious because of its symmetry. The two sexes balance one another.\"\n\nDuring the 1920s André Masson's work was enormously influential in helping the young artist Joan Miró find his roots in the new Surrealist painting. Miró acknowledged in letters to his dealer Pierre Matisse the importance of Masson as an example to him in his early years in Paris.\n\nLong after personal, political and professional tensions have fragmented the Surrealist group into thin air and ether, Magritte, Miró, Dalí and the other Surrealists continue to define a visual program in the arts. Other prominent surrealist artists include Giorgio de Chirico, Méret Oppenheim, Toyen, Grégoire Michonze, Roberto Matta, Kay Sage, Leonora Carrington, Dorothea Tanning, and Leonor Fini among others.\n\nDuring the 1920s and the 1930s and the Great Depression, the European art scene was characterized by Surrealism, late Cubism, the Bauhaus, De Stijl, Dada, Neue Sachlichkeit, and Expressionism; and was occupied by masterful modernist color painters like Henri Matisse and Pierre Bonnard.\n\nAmerican Scene painting and the Social Realism and Regionalism movements that contained both political and social commentary dominated the art world in the USA. Artists like Ben Shahn, Thomas Hart Benton, Grant Wood, George Tooker, John Steuart Curry, Reginald Marsh, and others became prominent. In Latin America besides the Uruguayan painter Joaquín Torres García and Rufino Tamayo from Mexico, the muralist movement with Diego Rivera, David Siqueiros, José Orozco, Pedro Nel Gómez and Santiago Martinez Delgado and the Symbolist paintings by Frida Kahlo began a renaissance of the arts for the region, with a use of color and historic, and political messages. Frida Kahlo's Symbolist works also relate strongly to Surrealism and to the Magic Realism movement in literature. The psychological drama in many of Kahlo's self-portraits (above) underscore the vitality and relevance of her paintings to artists in the 21st century.\nIn Germany Neue Sachlichkeit (\"New Objectivity\") emerged as Max Beckmann, Otto Dix, George Grosz and others associated with the Berlin Secession politicized their paintings. The work of these artists grew out of expressionism, and was a response to the political tensions of the Weimar Republic, and was often sharply satirical.\n\nDiego Rivera is perhaps best known by the public for his 1933 mural, \"Man at the Crossroads\", in the lobby of the RCA Building at Rockefeller Center. When his patron Nelson Rockefeller discovered that the mural included a portrait of Lenin and other communist imagery, he fired Rivera, and the unfinished work was eventually destroyed by Rockefeller's staff. The film \"Cradle Will Rock\" includes a dramatization of the controversy. Frida Kahlo (Rivera's wife's) works are often characterized by their stark portrayals of pain. Of her 143 paintings 55 are self-portraits, which frequently incorporate symbolic portrayals of her physical and psychological wounds. Kahlo was deeply influenced by indigenous Mexican culture, which is apparent in her paintings' bright colors and dramatic symbolism. Christian and Jewish themes are often depicted in her work as well; she combined elements of the classic religious Mexican tradition—which were often bloody and violent—with surrealist renderings. While her paintings are not overtly Christian—she was an avowed communist—they certainly contain elements of the macabre Mexican Christian style of religious paintings.\n\nDuring the 1930s radical leftist politics characterized many of the artists connected to Surrealism, including Pablo Picasso. On 26 April 1937, during the Spanish Civil War, the Basque town of Gernika was the scene of the \"Bombing of Gernika\" by the Condor Legion of Nazi Germany's Luftwaffe. The Germans were attacking to support the efforts of Francisco Franco to overthrow the Basque Government and the Spanish Republican government. The town was devastated, though the Biscayan assembly and the Oak of Gernika survived. Pablo Picasso painted his mural sized \"Guernica\" to commemorate the horrors of the bombing.\n\nIn its final form, \"Guernica\" is an immense black and white, 3.5 metre (11 ft) tall and 7.8 metre (23 ft) wide mural painted in oil. The mural presents a scene of death, violence, brutality, suffering, and helplessness without portraying their immediate causes. The choice to paint in black and white contrasts with the intensity of the scene depicted and invokes the immediacy of a newspaper photograph.\nPicasso painted the mural sized painting called \"Guernica\" in protest of the bombing. The painting was first exhibited in Paris in 1937, then Scandinavia, then London in 1938 and finally in 1939 at Picasso's request the painting was sent to the United States in an extended loan (for safekeeping) at MoMA. The painting went on a tour of museums throughout the US until its final return to the Museum of Modern Art in New York City where it was exhibited for nearly thirty years. Finally in accord with Pablo Picasso's wish to give the painting to the people of Spain as a gift, it was sent to Spain in 1981.\n\nDuring the Great Depression of the 1930s, through the years of World War II American art was characterized by Social Realism and American Scene Painting (as seen above) in the work of Grant Wood, Edward Hopper, Ben Shahn, Thomas Hart Benton, and several others. \"Nighthawks\" (1942) is a painting by Edward Hopper that portrays people sitting in a downtown diner late at night. It is not only Hopper's most famous painting, but one of the most recognizable in American art. It is currently in the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago. The scene was inspired by a diner (since demolished) in Greenwich Village, Hopper's home neighborhood in Manhattan. Hopper began painting it immediately after the attack on Pearl Harbor. After this event there was a large feeling of gloominess over the country, a feeling that is portrayed in the painting. The urban street is empty outside the diner, and inside none of the three patrons is apparently looking or talking to the others but instead is lost in their own thoughts. This portrayal of modern urban life as empty or lonely is a common theme throughout Hopper's work.\n\n\"American Gothic\" is a painting by Grant Wood from 1930. Portraying a pitchfork-holding farmer and a younger woman in front of a house of Carpenter Gothic style, it is one of the most familiar images in 20th-century American art. Art critics had favorable opinions about the painting, like Gertrude Stein and Christopher Morley, they assumed the painting was meant to be a satire of rural small-town life. It was thus seen as part of the trend towards increasingly critical depictions of rural America, along the lines of Sherwood Anderson's \"1919 Winesburg, Ohio\", Sinclair Lewis' 1920 \"Main Street\", and Carl Van Vechten's \"The Tattooed Countess\" in literature. However, with the onset of the Great Depression, the painting came to be seen as a depiction of steadfast American pioneer spirit.\n\nThe 1940s in New York City heralded the triumph of American abstract expressionism, a modernist movement that combined lessons learned from Henri Matisse, Pablo Picasso, Surrealism, Joan Miró, Cubism, Fauvism, and early Modernism via great teachers in America like Hans Hofmann and John D. Graham. American artists benefited from the presence of Piet Mondrian, Fernand Léger, Max Ernst and the André Breton group, Pierre Matisse's gallery, and Peggy Guggenheim's The Art of This Century Gallery, as well as other factors.\n\nPost-Second World War American painting called Abstract expressionism included artists like Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning, Arshile Gorky, Mark Rothko, Hans Hofmann, Clyfford Still, Franz Kline, Adolph Gottlieb, Barnett Newman, Mark Tobey, James Brooks, Philip Guston, Robert Motherwell, Conrad Marca-Relli, Jack Tworkov, William Baziotes, Richard Pousette-Dart, Ad Reinhardt, Esteban Vicente, Hedda Sterne, Jimmy Ernst, Bradley Walker Tomlin, and Theodoros Stamos, among others. American Abstract expressionism got its name in 1946 from the art critic Robert Coates. It is seen as combining the emotional intensity and self-denial of the German Expressionists with the anti-figurative aesthetic of the European abstract schools such as Futurism, the Bauhaus and Synthetic Cubism. Abstract expressionism, Action painting, and Color Field painting are synonymous with the New York School.\n\nTechnically Surrealism was an important predecessor for Abstract expressionism with its emphasis on spontaneous, automatic or subconscious creation. Jackson Pollock's dripping paint onto a canvas laid on the floor is a technique that has its roots in the work of André Masson. Another important ear<nowiki>ly m</nowiki>anifestation of what came to be abstract expressionism is the work of American Northwest artist Mark Tobey, especially his \"white writing\" canvases, which, though generally not large in scale, anticipate the \"all over\" look of Pollock's drip paintings.\n\nAdditionally, abstract expressionism has an image of being rebellious, anarchic, highly idiosyncratic and, some feel, rather nihilistic. In practice, the term is applied to any number of artists working (mostly) in New York who had quite different styles, and even applied to work which is not especially abstract nor expressionist. Pollock's energetic \"action paintings\", with their \"busy\" feel, are different both technically and aesthetically, to the violent and grotesque \"Women\" series of Willem de Kooning. As seen above in the gallery \"Woman V\" is one of a series of six paintings made by de Kooning between 1950 and 1953 that depict a three-quarter-length female figure. He began the first of these paintings, \"Woman I\" collection: The Museum of Modern Art, New York City, in June 1950, repeatedly changing and painting out the image until January or February 1952, when the painting was abandoned unfinished. The art historian Meyer Schapiro saw the painting in de Kooning's studio soon afterwards and encouraged the artist to persist. De Kooning's response was to begin three other paintings on the same theme; \"Woman II\", The Museum of Modern Art, New York City, \"Woman III\", Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art, \"Woman IV\", Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art, Kansas City, Missouri. During the summer of 1952, spent at East Hampton, de Kooning further explored the theme through drawings and pastels. He may have finished work on \"Woman I\" by the end of June, or possibly as late as November 1952, and probably the other three women pictures were concluded at much the same time. The \"Woman series\" are decidedly figurative paintings. Another important artist is Franz Kline, as demonstrated by his painting \"High Street,\" 1950 as with Jackson Pollock and other Abstract Expressionists, was labelled an action painter because of his seemingly spontaneous and intense style, focusing less, or not at all, on figures or imagery, but on the actual brush strokes and use of canvas.\n\nClyfford Still, Barnett Newman, Adolph Gottlieb, and the serenely shimmering blocks of color in Mark Rothko's work (which is not what would usually be called expressionist and which Rothko denied was abstract), are classified as abstract expressionists, albeit from what Clement Greenberg termed the Color field direction of abstract expressionism. Both Hans Hofmann and Robert Motherwell (gallery) can be comfortably described as practitioners of action painting and Color field painting.\n\nAbstract expressionism has many stylistic similarities to the Russian artists of the early twentieth century such as Wassily Kandinsky. Although it is true that spontaneity or of the impression of spontaneity characterized many of the abstract expressionists works, most of these paintings involved careful planning, especially since their large size demanded it. An exception might be the drip paintings of Pollock.\nWhy this style gained mainstream acceptance in the 1950s is a matter of debate. American Social realism had been the mainstream in the 1930s. It had been influenced not only by the Great Depression but also by the Social Realists of Mexico such as David Alfaro Siqueiros and Diego Rivera. The political climate after World War II did not long tolerate the social protests of those painters. Abstract expressionism arose during World War II and began to be showcased during the early 1940s at galleries in New York like The Art of This Century Gallery. The late 1940s through the mid-1950s ushered in the McCarthy era. It was after World War II and a time of political conservatism and extreme artistic censorship in the United States. Some people have conjectured that since the subject matter was often totally abstract, Abstract expressionism became a safe strategy for artists to pursue this style. Abstract art could be seen as apolitical. Or if the art was political, the message was largely for the insiders. However those theorists are in the minority. As the first truly original school of painting in America, Abstract expressionism demonstrated the vitality and creativity of the country in the post-war years, as well as its ability (or need) to develop an aesthetic sense that was not constrained by the European standards of beauty.\n\nAlthough Abstract expressionism spread quickly throughout the United States, the major centers of this style were New York City and California, especially in the New York School, and the San Francisco Bay area. Abstract expressionist paintings share certain characteristics, including the use of large canvases, an \"all-over\" approach, in which the whole canvas is treated with equal importance (as opposed to the center being of more interest than the edges). The canvas as the \"arena\" became a credo of Action painting, while the \"integrity of the picture plane\" became a credo of the Color Field painters. Many other artists began exhibiting their abstract expressionist related paintings during the 1950s including Alfred Leslie, Sam Francis, Joan Mitchell, Helen Frankenthaler, Cy Twombly, Milton Resnick, Michael Goldberg, Norman Bluhm, Ray Parker, Nicolas Carone, Grace Hartigan, Friedel Dzubas, and Robert Goodnough among others.\n\nDuring the 1950s, Color Field painting initially referred to a particular type of abstract expressionism, especially the work of Mark Rothko, Clyfford Still, Barnett Newman, Robert Motherwell and Adolph Gottlieb. It essentially involved abstract paintings with large, flat expanses of color that expressed the sensual, and visual feelings and properties of large areas of nuanced surface. Art critic Clement Greenberg perceived Color Field painting as related to but different from Action painting. The overall expanse and gestalt of the work of the early color field painters speaks of an almost religious experience, awestruck in the face of an expanding universe of sensuality, color and surface. During the early to mid-1960s, \"Color Field painting\" came to refer to the styles of artists like Jules Olitski, Kenneth Noland, and Helen Frankenthaler, whose works were related to second-generation abstract expressionism, and to younger artists like Larry Zox, and Frank Stella – all moving in a new direction. Artists like Clyfford Still, Mark Rothko, Hans Hofmann, Morris Louis, Jules Olitski, Kenneth Noland, Helen Frankenthaler, Larry Zox, and others often used greatly reduced references to nature, and they painted with a highly articulated and psychological use of color. In general these artists eliminated recognizable imagery. In \"Mountains and Sea,\" from 1952, a seminal work of Colorfield painting by Helen Frankenthaler the artist used the stain technique for the first time.\n\nIn Europe there was the continuation of Surrealism, Cubism, Dada and the works of Matisse. Also in Europe, Tachisme (the European equivalent to Abstract expressionism) and Informalism took hold of the newest generation. Serge Poliakoff, Nicolas de Staël, Georges Mathieu, Vieira da Silva, Jean Dubuffet, Yves Klein and Pierre Soulages among others are considered important figures in post-war European painting.\n\nEventually abstract painting in America evolved into movements such as Neo-Dada, Color Field painting, Post painterly abstraction, Op art, hard-edge painting, Minimal art, shaped canvas painting, Lyrical Abstraction, Neo-expressionism and the continuation of Abstract expressionism. As a response to the tendency toward abstraction imagery emerged through various new movements, notably Pop art.\n\nDuring the 1930s through the 1960s as abstract painting in America and Europe evolved into movements such as Abstract Expressionism, Color Field painting, Post painterly abstraction, Op art, hard-edge painting, Minimal art, shaped canvas painting, and Lyrical Abstraction. Other artists reacted as a response to the tendency toward abstraction allowing imagery to continue through various new contexts like the Bay Area Figurative Movement in the 1950s and new forms of expressionism from the 1940s through the 1960s. In Italy during this time, Giorgio Morandi was the foremost still life painter, exploring a wide variety of approaches to depicting everyday bottles and kitchen implements. Throughout the 20th century many painters practiced Realism and used expressive imagery; practicing landscape and figurative painting with contemporary subjects and solid technique, and unique expressivity like Milton Avery, John D. Graham, Fairfield Porter, Edward Hopper, Andrew Wyeth, Balthus, Francis Bacon, Frank Auerbach, Lucian Freud, Leon Kossoff, Philip Pearlstein, Willem de Kooning, Arshile Gorky, Grace Hartigan, Robert De Niro, Sr., Elaine de Kooning and others. Along with Henri Matisse, Pablo Picasso, Pierre Bonnard, Georges Braque, and other 20th-century masters. The figurative work of Francis Bacon, Frida Kahlo, Edward Hopper, Lucian Freud Andrew Wyeth and others served as a kind of alternative to abstract expressionism. One of the most well-known images in 20th-century American art is Wyeth's painting, \"Christina's World\", currently in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. It depicts a woman lying on the ground in a treeless, mostly tawny field, looking up at and crawling towards a gray house on the horizon; a barn and various other small outbuildings are adjacent to the house. This tempera work, done in a realist style, is nearly always on display at the Museum of Modern Art in New York.\n\nArshile Gorky's portrait of what may be his friend Willem de Kooning (left) is an example of the evolution of Abstract Expressionism from the context of figure painting, cubism and surrealism. Along with his friends de Kooning and John D. Graham Gorky created bio-morphically shaped and abstracted figurative compositions that by the 1940s evolved into totally abstract paintings. Gorky's work seems to be a careful analysis of memory, emotion and shape, using line and color to express feeling and nature.\n\n\"Study after Velázquez's Portrait of Pope Innocent X,\" 1953 is a painting by the Irish born artist Francis Bacon and is an example of Post World War II European Expressionism. The work shows a distorted version of the Portrait of Innocent X painted by the Spanish artist Diego Velázquez in 1650. The work is one of a series of variants of the Velázquez painting which Bacon executed throughout the 1950s and early 1960s, over a total of forty-five works. When asked why he was compelled to revisit the subject so often, Bacon replied that he had nothing against the Popes, that he merely \"wanted an excuse to use these colours, and you can't give ordinary clothes that purple colour without getting into a sort of false fauve manner.\" The Pope in this version seethes with anger and aggression, and the dark colors give the image a grotesque and nightmarish appearance. The pleated curtains of the backdrop are rendered transparent, and seem to fall through the Pope's face.\n\nAfter World War II the term School of Paris often referred to Tachisme, the European equivalent of American Abstract expressionism and those artists are also related to Cobra. In 1952 Michel Tapié authored the book \"Un Autre art\" which gave name and voice to Informalism. Important proponents being Jean Dubuffet, Pierre Soulages, Nicolas de Staël, Hans Hartung, Serge Poliakoff, and Georges Mathieu, among several others. During the early 1950s Dubuffet (who was always a figurative artist), and de Staël, abandoned abstraction, and returned to imagery via figuration and landscape. De Staël 's work was quickly recognised within the post-war art world, and he became one of the most influential artists of the 1950s. His return to representation (seascapes, footballers, jazz musicians, seagulls) during the early 1950s can be seen as an influential precedent for the American Bay Area Figurative Movement, as many of those abstract painters like Richard Diebenkorn, David Park, Elmer Bischoff, Wayne Thiebaud, Nathan Oliveira, Joan Brown and others made a similar move; returning to imagery during the mid-1950s. Much of de Staël 's late work – in particular his thinned, and diluted oil on canvas abstract landscapes of the mid-1950s predicts Color Field painting and Lyrical Abstraction of the 1960s and 1970s. Nicolas de Staël's bold and intensely vivid color in his last paintings predict the direction of much of contemporary painting that came after him including Pop art of the 1960s.\n\nPop art in America was to a large degree initially inspired by the works of Jasper Johns, Larry Rivers, and Robert Rauschenberg. Although the paintings of Gerald Murphy, Stuart Davis and Charles Demuth during the 1920s and 1930s set the table for Pop art in America. In New York City during the mid-1950s Robert Rauschenberg and Jasper Johns created works of art that at first seemed to be continuations of Abstract expressionist painting. Actually their works and the work of Larry Rivers, were radical departures from abstract expressionism especially in the use of banal and literal imagery and the inclusion and the combining of mundane materials into their work. The innovations of Johns' specific use of various images and objects like chairs, numbers, targets, beer cans and the American Flag; Rivers paintings of subjects drawn from popular culture such as George Washington crossing the Delaware, and his inclusions of images from advertisements like the camel from Camel cigarettes, and Rauschenberg's surprising constructions using inclusions of objects and pictures taken from popular culture, hardware stores, junkyards, the city streets, and taxidermy gave rise to a radical new movement in American art. Eventually by 1963 the movement came to be known worldwide as Pop art.\n\nPop art is exemplified by artists: Andy Warhol, Claes Oldenburg, Wayne Thiebaud, James Rosenquist, Jim Dine, Tom Wesselmann and Roy Lichtenstein among others. Lichtenstein used oil and Magna paint in his best known works, such as \"Drowning Girl\" (1963), which was appropriated from the lead story in DC Comics' \"Secret Hearts\" #83. (\"Drowning Girl\" now is in the collection of Museum of Modern Art, New York.) Also featuring thick outlines, bold colors and Ben-Day dots to represent certain colors, as if created by photographic reproduction. Lichtenstein would say of his own work: Abstract Expressionists \"put things down on the canvas and responded to what they had done, to the color positions and sizes. My style looks completely different, but the nature of putting down lines pretty much is the same; mine just don't come out looking calligraphic, like Pollock's or Kline's.\" Pop art merges popular and mass culture with fine art, while injecting humor, irony, and recognizable imagery and content into the mix. In October 1962 the Sidney Janis Gallery mounted \"The New Realists\" the first major Pop art group exhibition in an uptown art gallery in New York City. Sidney Janis mounted the exhibition in a 57th Street storefront near his gallery at 15 E. 57th Street. The show sent shockwaves through the New York School and reverberated worldwide. Earlier in the fall of 1962 a historically important and ground-breaking \"New Painting of Common Objects\" exhibition of Pop art, curated by Walter Hopps at the Pasadena Art Museum sent shock waves across the Western United States. \"Campbell's Soup Cans\" (sometimes referred to as \"32 Campbell's Soup Cans\") is the title of an Andy Warhol work of art that was produced in 1962. It consists of thirty-two canvases, each measuring 20 inches in height x 16 inches in width (50.8 x 40.6 cm) and each consisting of a painting of a Campbell's Soup can—one of each canned soup variety the company offered at the time. The individual paintings were produced with a semi-mechanised silkscreen process, using a non-painterly style. They helped usher in Pop art as a major art movement that relied on themes from popular culture. These works by Andy Warhol are repetitive and they are made in a non-painterly commercial manner.\n\nEarlier in England in 1956 the term \"Pop Art\" was used by Lawrence Alloway for paintings that celebrated consumerism of the post World War II era. This movement rejected Abstract expressionism and its focus on the hermeneutic and psychological interior, in favor of art which depicted, and often celebrated material consumer culture, advertising, and iconography of the mass production age. The early works of David Hockney whose paintings emerged from England during the 1960s like \"A Bigger Splash,\" and the works of Richard Hamilton, Peter Blake, and Eduardo Paolozzi, are considered seminal examples in the movement.\n\nWhile in the downtown scene in New York's East Village 10th Street galleries artists were formulating an American version of Pop art. Claes Oldenburg had his storefront, and the Green Gallery on 57th Street began to show Tom Wesselmann and James Rosenquist. Later Leo Castelli exhibited other American artists including the bulk of the careers of Andy Warhol and Roy Lichtenstein and his use of Benday dots, a technique used in commercial reproduction and seen in ordinary comic books and in paintings like \"Drowning Girl\", 1963, in the gallery above. There is a connection between the radical works of Duchamp, and Man Ray, the rebellious Dadaists – with a sense of humor; and Pop Artists like Alex Katz (who became known for his parodies of portrait photography and suburban life), Claes Oldenburg, Andy Warhol, Roy Lichtenstein and the others.\n\nDuring the 1950s and 1960s as abstract painting in America and Europe evolved into movements such as Color Field painting, Post painterly abstraction, Op art, hard-edge painting, Minimal art, shaped canvas painting, Lyrical Abstraction, and the continuation of Abstract expressionism. Other artists reacted as a response to the tendency toward abstraction with Art brut, as seen in \"Court les rues,\" 1962, by Jean Dubuffet, Fluxus, Neo-Dada, New Realism, allowing imagery to re-emerge through various new contexts like Pop art, the Bay Area Figurative Movement (a prime example is Diebenkorn's \"Cityscape I,(Landscape No. 1),\" 1963, Oil on canvas, 60 1/4 x 50 1/2 inches, collection: San Francisco Museum of Modern Art), and later in the 1970s Neo-expressionism. The Bay Area Figurative Movement of whom David Park, Elmer Bischoff, Nathan Oliveira and Richard Diebenkorn whose painting \"Cityscape 1,\" 1963 is a typical example were influential members flourished during the 1950s and 1960s in California. Although throughout the 20th-century painters continued to practice Realism and use imagery, practicing landscape and figurative painting with contemporary subjects and solid technique, and unique expressivity like Milton Avery, Edward Hopper, Jean Dubuffet, Francis Bacon, Frank Auerbach, Lucian Freud, Philip Pearlstein, and others. Younger painters practiced the use of imagery in new and radical ways. Yves Klein, Martial Raysse, Niki de Saint Phalle, David Hockney, Alex Katz, Antoni Tàpies, Malcolm Morley, Ralph Goings, Audrey Flack, Richard Estes, Chuck Close, Susan Rothenberg, Eric Fischl, John Baeder, and Vija Celmins were a few who became prominent between the 1960s and the 1980s. Fairfield Porter was largely self-taught, and produced representational work in the midst of the Abstract Expressionist movement. His subjects were primarily landscapes, domestic interiors and portraits of family, friends and fellow artists, many of them affiliated with the New York School of writers, including John Ashbery, Frank O'Hara, and James Schuyler. Many of his paintings were set in or around the family summer house on Great Spruce Head Island, Maine.\n\nNeo-Dada is a movement that started 1n the 1950s and 1960s and was related to Abstract expressionism only with imagery. Featuring the emergence of combined manufactured items, with artist materials, moving away from previous conventions of painting. This trend in art is exemplified by the work of Jasper Johns and Robert Rauschenberg, whose \"combines\" in the 1950s were forerunners of Pop Art and Installation art, and made use of the assemblage of large physical objects, including stuffed animals, birds and commercial photography. Robert Rauschenberg, Jasper Johns, Larry Rivers, John Chamberlain, Claes Oldenburg, George Segal, Jim Dine, and Edward Kienholz among others were important pioneers of both abstraction and Pop Art; creating new conventions of art-making; they made acceptable in serious contemporary art circles the radical inclusion of unlikely materials as parts of their works of art.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s abstract painting continued to develop in America through varied styles. Geometric abstraction, Op art, hard-edge painting, Color Field painting and minimal painting, were some interrelated directions for advanced abstract painting as well as some other new movements. Morris Louis was an important pioneer in advanced Colorfield painting, his work can serve as a bridge between Abstract expressionism, Colorfield painting, and Minimal Art. Two influential teachers Josef Albers and Hans Hofmann introduced a new generation of American artists to their advanced theories of color and space. Josef Albers is best remembered for his work as a Geometric abstractionist painter and theorist. Most famous are the hundreds of paintings and prints that make up the series \"Homage to the Square\". In this rigorous series, begun in 1949, Albers explored chromatic interactions with flat colored squares arranged concentrically on the canvas. Albers' theories on art and education were formative for the next generation of artists. His own paintings form the foundation of both hard-edge painting and Op art.\nJosef Albers, Hans Hofmann, Ilya Bolotowsky, Burgoyne Diller, Victor Vasarely, Bridget Riley, Richard Anuszkiewicz, Frank Stella, Morris Louis, Kenneth Noland, Ellsworth Kelly, Barnett Newman, Larry Poons, Ronald Davis, John Hoyland, Larry Zox, and Al Held are artists closely associated with Geometric abstraction, Op art, Color Field painting, and in the case of Hofmann and Newman Abstract expressionism as well. Agnes Martin, Robert Mangold, Brice Marden, Jo Baer, Robert Ryman, Richard Tuttle, Neil Williams, David Novros, Paul Mogenson, are examples of artists associated with Minimalism and (exceptions of Martin, Baer and Marden) the use of the shaped canvas also during the period beginning in the early 1960s. Many Geometric abstract artists, minimalists, and Hard-edge painters elected to use the edges of the image to define the shape of the painting rather than accepting the rectangular format. In fact, the use of the shaped canvas is primarily associated with paintings of the 1960s and 1970s that are coolly abstract, formalistic, geometrical, objective, rationalistic, clean-lined, brashly sharp-edged, or minimalist in character. The Bykert Gallery, and the Park Place Gallery were important showcases for Minimalism and shaped canvas painting in New York City during the 1960s.\n\nIn 1965, an exhibition called \"The Responsive Eye\", curated by William C. Seitz, was held at the Museum of Modern Art, in New York City. The works shown were wide ranging, encompassing the Minimalism of Frank Stella, the Op art of Larry Poons, the work of Alexander Liberman, alongside the masters of the Op Art movement: Victor Vasarely, Richard Anuszkiewicz, Bridget Riley and others. The exhibition focused on the perceptual aspects of art, which result both from the illusion of movement and the interaction of color relationships. Op art, also known as optical art, is a style present in some paintings and other works of art that use optical illusions. Op art is also closely akin to geometric abstraction and hard-edge painting. Although sometimes the term used for it is perceptual abstraction.\nOp art is a method of painting concerning the interaction between illusion and picture plane, between understanding and seeing. Op art works are abstract, with many of the better known pieces made in only black and white. When the viewer looks at them, the impression is given of movement, hidden images, flashing and vibration, patterns, or alternatively, of swelling or warping.\n\nColor Field painting clearly pointed toward a new direction in American painting, away from abstract expressionism. Color Field painting is related to Post-painterly abstraction, Suprematism, Abstract Expressionism, Hard-edge painting and Lyrical Abstraction.\n\nColor Field painting sought to rid art of superfluous rhetoric. Artists like Clyfford Still, Mark Rothko, Hans Hofmann, Morris Louis, Jules Olitski, Kenneth Noland, Helen Frankenthaler, Larry Zox, and others often used greatly reduced references to nature, and they painted with a highly articulated and psychological use of color. In general these artists eliminated recognizable imagery. Certain artists made references to past or present art, but in general color field painting presents abstraction as an end in itself. In pursuing this direction of modern art, artists wanted to present each painting as one unified, cohesive, monolithic image. Gene Davis along with Kenneth Noland, Morris Louis and several others was a member of the Washington Color School painters who began to create Color Field paintings in Washington, D.C. during the 1950s and 1960s, \"Black, Grey, Beat\"is a large vertical stripe painting and typical of Gene Davis's work.\n\nFrank Stella, Kenneth Noland, Ellsworth Kelly, Barnett Newman, Ronald Davis, Neil Williams, Robert Mangold, Charles Hinman, Richard Tuttle, David Novros, and Al Loving are examples of artists associated with the use of the shaped canvas during the period beginning in the early 1960s. Many Geometric abstract artists, minimalists, and Hard-edge painters elected to use the edges of the image to define the shape of the painting rather than accepting the rectangular format. In fact, the use of the shaped canvas is primarily associated with paintings of the 1960s and 1970s that are coolly abstract, formalistic, geometrical, objective, rationalistic, clean-lined, brashly sharp-edged, or minimalist in character. From 1960 Frank Stella produced paintings in aluminum and copper paint and are his first works using shaped canvases (canvases in a shape other than the traditional rectangle or square), often being in L, N, U or T-shapes. These later developed into more elaborate designs, in the \"Irregular Polygon\" series (67), for example. Also in the 1960s, Stella began to use a wider range of colors, typically arranged in straight or curved lines. Later he began his \"Protractor Series\" (71) of paintings, in which arcs, sometimes overlapping, within square borders are arranged side-by-side to produce full and half circles painted in rings of concentric color. \"Harran II,\" 1967, is an example of the \"Protractor Series\". These paintings are named after circular cities he had visited while in the Middle East earlier in the 1960s. The Irregular Polygon canvases and Protractor series further extended the concept of the shaped canvas.\n\nThe Andre Emmerich Gallery, the Leo Castelli Gallery, the Richard Feigen Gallery, and the Park Place Gallery were important showcases for Color Field painting, shaped canvas painting and Lyrical Abstraction in New York City during the 1960s. There is a connection with post-painterly abstraction, which reacted against abstract expressionisms' mysticism, hyper-subjectivity, and emphasis on making the act of painting itself dramatically visible – as well as the solemn acceptance of the flat rectangle as an almost ritual prerequisite for serious painting. During the 1960s Color Field painting and Minimal art were often closely associated with each other. In actuality by the early 1970s both movements became decidedly diverse.\n\nAnother related movement of the late 1960s, Lyrical Abstraction (the term being coined by Larry Aldrich, the founder of the Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum, Ridgefield Connecticut), encompassed what Aldrich said he saw in the studios of many artists at that time. It is also the name of an exhibition that originated in the Aldrich Museum and traveled to the Whitney Museum of American Art and other museums throughout the United States between 1969 and 1971.\n\nLyrical Abstraction in the late 1960s is characterized by the paintings of Dan Christensen,Ronnie Landfield, Peter Young and others, and along with the Fluxus movement and Postminimalism (a term first coined by Robert Pincus-Witten in the pages of Artforum in 1969) sought to expand the boundaries of abstract painting and Minimalism by focusing on process, new materials and new ways of expression. Postminimalism often incorporating industrial materials, raw materials, fabrications, found objects, installation, serial repetition, and often with references to Dada and Surrealism is best exemplified in the sculptures of Eva Hesse. Lyrical Abstraction, Conceptual Art, Postminimalism, Earth Art, Video, Performance art, Installation art, along with the continuation of Fluxus, Abstract Expressionism, Color Field painting, Hard-edge painting, Minimal Art, Op art, Pop art, Photorealism and New Realism extended the boundaries of Contemporary Art in the mid-1960s through the 1970s. Lyrical Abstraction is a type of freewheeling abstract painting that emerged in the mid-1960s when abstract painters returned to various forms of painterly, pictorial, expressionism with a predominate focus on process, gestalt and repetitive compositional strategies in general.\n\nLyrical Abstraction shares similarities with Color Field painting and Abstract Expressionism especially in the freewheeling usage of paint – texture and surface. Direct drawing, calligraphic use of line, the effects of brushed, splattered, stained, squeegeed, poured, and splashed paint superficially resemble the effects seen in Abstract Expressionism and Color Field painting. However the styles are markedly different. Setting it apart from Abstract Expressionism and Action Painting of the 1940s and 1950s is the approach to composition and drama. As seen in Action Painting there is an emphasis on brushstrokes, high compositional drama, dynamic compositional tension. While in Lyrical Abstraction as exemplified by the 1971 Ronnie Landfield painting \"Garden of Delight\" (above), there is a sense of compositional randomness, all over composition, low key and relaxed compositional drama and an emphasis on process, repetition, and an all over sensibility.\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s artists as powerful and influential as Robert Motherwell, Adolph Gottlieb, Philip Guston, Lee Krasner, Cy Twombly, Robert Rauschenberg, Jasper Johns, Richard Diebenkorn, Josef Albers, Elmer Bischoff, Agnes Martin, Al Held, Sam Francis, Ellsworth Kelly, Morris Louis, Helen Frankenthaler, Gene Davis, Frank Stella, Kenneth Noland, Joan Mitchell, Friedel Dzubas, and younger artists like Brice Marden, Robert Mangold, Sam Gilliam, John Hoyland, Sean Scully, Blinky Palermo, Pat Steir, Elizabeth Murray, Larry Poons, Walter Darby Bannard, Larry Zox, Ronnie Landfield, Ronald Davis, Dan Christensen, Joan Snyder, Richard Tuttle, Ross Bleckner, Archie Rand, Susan Crile, Mino Argento and dozens of others produced vital and influential paintings.\n\nArtists such as Larry Poons—whose work related to Op Art with his emphasis on dots, ovals and after-images bouncing across color fields—Ellsworth Kelly, Kenneth Noland, Ralph Humphrey, Robert Motherwell and Robert Ryman had also begun to explore stripes, monochromatic and Hard-edge formats from the late 1950s through the 1960s.\n\nBecause of a tendency in Minimalism to exclude the pictorial, illusionistic and fictive in favor of the literal—as demonstrated by Robert Mangold, who understood the concept of the shape of the canvas and its relationship to \"objecthood\"—there was a movement away from painterly and toward sculptural concerns. Donald Judd had started as a painter, and ended as a creator of objects. His seminal essay, \"Specific Objects\" (published in Arts Yearbook 8, 1965), was a touchstone of theory for the formation of Minimalist aesthetics. In this essay, Judd found a starting point for a new territory for American art, and a simultaneous rejection of residual inherited European artistic values. He pointed to evidence of this development in the works of an array of artists active in New York at the time, including Jasper Johns, Dan Flavin and Lee Bontecou. Of \"preliminary\" importance for Judd was the work of George Earl Ortman, who had concretized and distilled painting's forms into blunt, tough, philosophically charged geometries. These Specific Objects inhabited a space not then comfortably classifiable as either painting or sculpture. That the categorical identity of such objects was itself in question, and that they avoided easy association with well-worn and over-familiar conventions, was a part of their value for Judd.\n\nIn a much more general sense, one might find European roots of Minimalism in the geometric abstractions painters in the Bauhaus, in the works of Piet Mondrian and other artists associated with the movement DeStijl, in Russian Constructivists and in the work of the Romanian sculptor Constantin Brâncuși. American painters such as Brice Marden and Cy Twombly show a clear European influence in their \"pure\" abstraction, minimalist painting of the 1960s. Ronald Davis polyurethane works from the late 1960s pay homage to the \"Broken Glass\" of Marcel Duchamp\".\n\nThis movement was heavily criticised by high modernist formalist art critics and historians. Some anxious critics thought Minimalist art represented a misunderstanding of the modern dialectic of painting and sculpture as defined by critic Clement Greenberg, arguably the dominant American critic of painting in the period leading up to the 1960s. The most notable critique of Minimalism was produced by Michael Fried, a Greenbergian critic, who objected to the work on the basis of its \"theatricality\". In \"Art and Objecthood\" (published in Artforum in June 1967) he declared that the Minimalist work of art, particularly Minimalist sculpture, was based on an engagement with the physicality of the spectator. He argued that work like Robert Morris's transformed the act of viewing into a type of spectacle, in which the artifice of the act observation and the viewer's participation in the work were unveiled. Fried saw this displacement of the viewer's experience from an aesthetic engagement within, to an event outside of the artwork as a failure of Minimal art.\n\nAd Reinhardt, actually an artist of the Abstract Expressionist generation, but one whose reductive all-black paintings seemed to anticipate minimalism, had this to say about the value of a reductive approach to art: \"The more stuff in it, the busier the work of art, the worse it is. More is less. Less is more. The eye is a menace to clear sight. The laying bare of oneself is obscene. Art begins with the getting rid of nature.\"\n\nStill other important innovations in abstract painting took place during the 1960s and the 1970s characterized by monochrome painting and hard-edge painting inspired by Ad Reinhardt, Barnett Newman, Milton Resnick, and Ellsworth Kelly. Artists as diverse as Agnes Martin, Al Held, Larry Zox, Frank Stella, Larry Poons, Brice Marden and others explored the power of simplification. The convergence of Color Field painting, minimal art, hard-edge painting, Lyrical Abstraction, and postminimalism blurred the distinction between movements that became more apparent in the 1980s and 1990s. The neo-expressionism movement is related to earlier developments in abstract expressionism, neo-Dada, Lyrical Abstraction and postminimal painting.\n\nIn the late 1960s the abstract expressionist painter Philip Guston helped to lead a transition from abstract expressionism to Neo-expressionism in painting, abandoning the so-called \"pure abstraction\" of abstract expressionism in favor of more cartoonish renderings of various personal symbols and objects. These works were inspirational to a new generation of painters interested in a revival of expressive imagery. His painting \"Painting, Smoking, Eating\" 1973, seen above in the gallery is an example of Guston's final and conclusive return to representation.\n\nIn the late 1970s and early 1980s, there was also a return to painting that occurred almost simultaneously in Italy, Germany, France and Britain. These movements were called Transavantguardia, Neue Wilde, Figuration Libre, Neo-expressionism, the school of London, and in the late 1990s the Stuckists, a group that emerged late in 1990s respectively. These painting were characterized by large formats, free expressive mark making, figuration, myth and imagination. All work in this genre came to be labeled neo-expressionism. Critical reaction was divided. Some critics regarded it as driven by profit motivations by large commercial galleries. This type of art continues in popularity into the 21st century, even after the art crash of the late 1980s.\n\nDuring the late 1970s in the United States painters who began working with invigorated surfaces and who returned to imagery like Susan Rothenberg gained in popularity, especially as seen above in paintings like \"Horse 2,\" 1979. During the 1980s American artists like Eric Fischl, David Salle, Jean-Michel Basquiat (who began as a graffiti artist), Julian Schnabel, and Keith Haring, and Italian painters like Mimmo Paladino, Sandro Chia, and Enzo Cucchi, among others defined the idea of Neo-expressionism in America.\n\nNeo-expressionism was a style of modern painting that became popular in the late 1970s and dominated the art market until the mid-1980s. It developed in Europe as a reaction against the conceptual and minimalistic art of the 1960s and 1970s. Neo-expressionists returned to portraying recognizable objects, such as the human body (although sometimes in a virtually abstract manner), in a rough and violently emotional way using vivid colours and banal colour harmonies. The veteran painters Philip Guston, Frank Auerbach, Leon Kossoff, Gerhard Richter, A. R. Penck and Georg Baselitz, along with slightly younger artists like Anselm Kiefer, Eric Fischl, Susan Rothenberg, Francesco Clemente, Damien Hirst, Jean-Michel Basquiat, Julian Schnabel, Keith Haring, and many others became known for working in this intense expressionist vein of painting.\n\nAt the beginning of the 21st century Contemporary painting and Contemporary art in general continues in several contiguous modes, characterized by the idea of pluralism. \nMainstream painting has been rejected by artists of the postmodern era in favor of artistic pluralism. According to art critic Arthur Danto there is an \"anything goes\" attitude that prevails; an \"everything going on\", and consequently \"nothing going on\" syndrome; this creates an aesthetic traffic jam with no firm and clear direction and with every lane on the artistic superhighway filled to capacity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51738550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51738550", "title": "Accademia di Belle Arti di Urbino", "text": "Accademia di Belle Arti di Urbino\n\nThe Accademia di Belle Arti di Urbino is an academy of fine arts located in Urbino, Marche. It was founded in 1967.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "3034931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3034931", "title": "Adoration of the Shepherds (Caravaggio)", "text": "Adoration of the Shepherds (Caravaggio)\n\nThe Adoration of the Shepherds is an oil on canvas painting by the Italian artist Michelangelo Merisi, commonly known as Caravaggio. \"The Adoration of the Shepherds\" measures 83.07 x 123.62 in. It was commissioned for the Capuchin Franciscans and was painted in Messina for the Church of Santa Maria degli Angeli in 1609 just one year prior to the death of Caravaggio.\n\nMichelangelo Merisi, commonly known as Caravaggio, was born in Milan in the northern region of Lombardy, Italy in 1571. He had to flee from his hometown after wounding a police officer in a tavern brawl. As with most other aspiring artists, he went to Rome to study classical techniques. Throughout his young adult life, Caravaggio was known amongst Italian citizens to be quite unruly and rebellious. He was often arrested on charges for violent behavior.\n\nCardinal Francesco del Monte took a struggling Caravaggio into his home, and introduced him to his circle—thereby securing Caravaggio with his first public commissions. These commissions were not religious, but entirely secular paintings ranging from flowers and fruit to paintings of a young classical Greek god. It was during this time that he would become world-renowned for the physical particularity and brutal realism of his paintings. \nIn 1599, Caravaggio reached a turning point in his artistic career.\n\nPresumably under Cardinal Francesco de Monte, Caravaggio was commissioned to decorate a wall dedicated to Saint Matthew in the Contarelli Chapel in the church of San Luigi dei Francesi. This was Caravaggio’s first religious work for the Catholic Church. He began to be seen as an artistic visionary for the Church with his use of anachronistic technique to draw people back to the Catholic Church during the Counter Reformation. With this good publicity, he began to pick up many more prestigious commissions. Caravaggio painted from life rather than drawings, which initially received criticism but later revolutionized the term “artistic realism”.\n\nCaravaggio mysteriously died in 1610, a year after finishing The Adoration of the Shepherds.\n\nBy the time that Caravaggio painted \"The Adoration of the Shepherds\" in 1609, the subjects in his paintings had acquired a more spiritual expressiveness. His figures were isolated against vast, empty backgrounds. This was a contrast to the Renaissance technique of employing decorative backgrounds.\n\nThe Capuchins were among the few religious patrons and critics who were fond of Caravaggio’s brutal realism. Many were critical of Caravaggio’s approach to his religious paintings and called it “vulgar” to represent biblical figures as ordinary peasants. \nThe focal point of the scene is Mary in the center. She is swathed in bright red. One of the three shepherds closest to her also has a little bit of what appears to be the same red robe draped along his arm. This might be symbolic of the gesture he is making to touch the Virgin as she is holding Christ. All three shepherds, as well as Joseph identified by a faint halo, look on with amazement and complete adoration at this infant child born in a barn.\n\nCaravaggio’s Baroque work is starkly different and revolutionary from Renaissance predecessors. To start, these divine figures are represented as ordinary people of the times. They are barefoot with ordinary robes. There is no divinity in the barn, either. There is no holy light source to shine the entire scene and make it overly-apparent that a divine event is occurring. Instead, the background is extremely dark with only a small single light source. It seems as though the space was lit by a single candle, as it might have realistically been during the actual event. We know that in the biblical account, Mary and Joseph were extremely poor. Their halos are almost barely seen, in contrast to the ornate halos of the Renaissance. Other than the halos, the clasped hands of the shepherds is the only thing hinting of any religious importance in the painting. There was nothing overtly marvelous about the birth of Christ. Caravaggio renders this aspect perfectly.\n\nCaravaggio's compositions are also non-classical: he arranges his figures along imaginary diagonal lines rather than a perfectly center linear composition like the Renaissance. There is a box of tools in the foreground, presumably Joseph’s since he was a carpenter. There is a single roughly baked loaf of bread as well, to reiterate Mary and Joseph’s poverty. There is nothing pre-arranged in the painting. It looks like a photograph that would have been taken in the exact moments after Christ’s birth.\n\nStylistically, Caravaggio used a technique he was famous for developing called chiaroscuro. Chiaroscuro is a contrast between dark and light. Using this technique heightened the drama of the work to make it seem raw and magnify the emotional aspects of the work. Chiaroscuro forces the viewer to focus on the figures and the event rather than other things going on in the background.\n\nThe central theme of the painting is humility. By seating the Virgin on the ground, Caravaggio implies that she is not a heavenly queen, but rather a simple young mother. This painting is a representation of the majority. The response of the shepherds is to admire rather than to venerate. There is a calmness and tranquility that is unmistakably conveying their worth as common-folk for the people as the parents of the Savior.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18160210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18160210", "title": "Advanced Fashion Design and Technology", "text": "Advanced Fashion Design and Technology\n\nAdvanced Fashion Design and Technology is the manufacturing process related to fashion which integrates the newest technologies. \n\nIt specifically refers not only to the design process, but furthermore to the manufacturing, which is defined as being \"advanced\". It utilizes CAD, to patternmake and design. The first CAD package for clothing came out in 1985, which significantly helped to decrease inefficiencies in making and readjusting panel patterns. Since 1985, computer clothing design software packages have made tremendous advancements. \n\n1. \n\nAnother way that technology has contributed to the fashion industry is in the manufacturing process. Many garments today are produced through outsourcing in other countries. A way to do this efficiently and effectively is through Tech Packs. Tech Packs contain 9 pages of information that help the manufacturer communicate with the designer. Here is the order of the pages:\n\n\nThe fashion industry has been using databases to aggregate and organize information specific to the industry. Below are some examples of such databases.\n\n1. Mix-and-Match databases\n\nThe mix-and-match database is a database that is being used in Hong Kong. Traditionally, fashion companies depend on sales associates to complimentary clothing recommendations for customers. The mix-and-match database essentially does the same thing, but in a different way. In order to use this database all clothes in the store have to be tagged with a radio frequency identification (RFID) tag.. In addition, each fitting room has to be equipped with a computer monitor. When a customer brings a clothing item with a RFID tag into the fitting room, the computer monitor will identify the garment, and display photographs of complementary items using the database.>\n\n2. Fashion Library databases\n\nAn example of a useful database that is the National Fashion Institute of Fashion Technology's Virtual Fashion Library (VFL) in India. This database is specifically organized to meet the needs of India's fashion designers. The VFL's most useful tool is the its Fashion Image Inventory. The inventory includes three image banks: the Indian fashion museum, the virtual swatch library, and archives of fashion shows. The Indian fashion museum contains pictures and videos of Indian costumes and dress throughout various historical periods. The virtual swatch library includes a collection of fabrics from all over India which helps designers select fabrics and patterns made in India. The archives fashion show contains videos of India's top fashion runway shows.\n\n"}
{"id": "57682184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57682184", "title": "Alte Nahebrücke (Bad Kreuznach)", "text": "Alte Nahebrücke (Bad Kreuznach)\n\nThe Alte Nahebrücke (English: \"Old Nahe Bridge\") is a medieval stone arch bridge in Bad Kreuznach, in western Germany, dating from around 1300, that originally spanned the Nahe river and a neighbouring canal called the \"Mühlenteich\" (English: \"mill pond\"). Only the section spanning the canal remains intact. With four houses on its piers, it is one of the few remaining bridges in the world that has buildings on it.\n\nThe stone Alte Nahebrücke was built around 1300 by Simon II, Count of Sponheim-Kreuznach, who ruled the town, to replace a wooden bridge which connected settlements on either side of the Nahe river. It provided an important connection on the road from to Mainz to Trier, and it formed part of the town fortifications. Towers on the bridge, one of which was for a period used as a prison, were destroyed by French troops in the late 17th century. The first recorded mention of the stone bridge was in 1332, when the Pauluskirche (English: \"St Paul's Church\"), which stands on Wörthinsel, the island between the canal and the river, was consecrated. Karl Marx was married in the church on 19 June 1843. \n\nThe bridge has two arms; one spanning the Nahe river and another, which supports the old buildings, spanning the Mühlenteich (English: \"mill pond\") canal, which is parallel to the river. \nOn Friday, 16 March 1945 the arm of the bridge spanning the river was blown up by German troops to hinder the approach of American forces. This destroyed a Baroque style Christian stone cross (a 1934 reproduction of the original) which was on the sixth pier of the bridge, and a statue of Saint John of Nepomuk, the bridge's patron saint, which was on the seventh pier.\n\nAmerican tanks arrived in Bad Kreuznach at midday 18 March 1945, unimpeded by the damage to the bridge.\n\nIn 1955, the town council had the remaining original span of the bridge over the Mühlenteich widened by two metres. In 1956, a concrete single-span bridge was built to replace the destroyed section which crossed the Nahe river. There was controversy about this work as some people felt that the 700 year-old historic bridge should have been returned to its original form.\n\nFrom 2015 to 2017 both the old span and the 1956 concrete span of the bridge underwent a major restoration. The 1956 span had become structurally weakened and it was originally planned to replace it with a completely new bridge. However, due to financial constraints the local authority decided to restored it and to put a new support pier under it. \n\nHouses were first built on the bridge around 1480 and first mentioned in 1495. The half-timbered buildings that remain on the span crossing the Mühlenteich were built between 1582 and 1612. The four buildings, on the street now called \"Mannheimer Straße\", are on four bridge piers on the upstream side of the bridge. There is also a house on the downstream side of the fourth pier, but its foundations are on an island which lies between the canal and the river, so it is not actually a bridge-supported building.\n\n\nCraftsmen and merchants originally lived in the buildings, which are now used as shops and business premises.\n\nOriginally the bridge had eight arches in total and it was built of sandstone and porphyry rock. Since being widened in 1955, the road carriageway has had a width of 6 m and the footpaths on each side have widths of between 2 m and 3 m. The narrowest point between the two houses on the fourth pier is 4 m wide.\n\nThe bridge is 135 m long in total, with the 1956 concrete span being 49.4 m long. The three arched vaults supporting the old span of the bridge are 10.5 m to 12.55 m wide.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10791717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10791717", "title": "Anthuleni Katha", "text": "Anthuleni Katha\n\nAnthuleni Katha also spelled as Antuleni Katha (English:\"Never Ending Story\") is a 1976 Telugu film directed by K. Balachander, starring Jaya Prada in the lead role, with Rajinikanth, Sripriya and Phataphat Jayalaxmi in supporting roles. Kamal Haasan played an extended cameo. The film is a remake of the 1974 Tamil film \"Aval Oru Thodar Kathai\", which was also directed by Balachander. This is Jaya Prada's first starring role, reprising the role played by Sujatha in the original and is considered to be one of her best films. This was also Rajinikanth's first major role. This film was shot in black-and-white.\n\nSaritha (Jaya Prada) is a working woman in a poor family. She works hard to support her widowed sister, unmarried sister, her blind younger brother, her mother, her drunkard brother Murthy (Rajinikanth) and his family. Her father abandons the family and becomes a saint. Her brother not only does not take responsibilities, but also creates additional problems for her.\n\nShe has a longtime boyfriend, who wants to marry her, but she doesn't because of her commitment to her family. His eyes now wander to Saritha's widowed younger sister (Sripriya), who reciprocates his feelings. Saritha, after reading her boyfriend's love letter to her sister, arranges for them to get married, thus giving up her chance of having a life with him. She eventually accepts a marriage proposal of her boss (Kamal Haasan), when she realizes that her brother has become responsible enough to take care of her family. She also helps her distressed friend, played by Phataphat Jayalaksmi to settle in life. She decides to resign from hard work, but could not as the result of the turning point in a typical Balachandar style climax.\n\nThe film is a remake of Tamil super hit film \"Aval Oru Thodar Kathai\" (1974), also directed by K. Balachander. It was also shot on black & white film. Jaya Prada played the role of Sujata , Rajinikanth did the role of Jai Ganesh, Kamal Haasan played the role of Narayana Rao. The same tunes were used in both languages. Sripriya, Phataphat Jayalaxmi and the rest of the cast are the same in both versions. The Tamil film was later was dubbed into Malayalam as \"Aval Oru Thudarkatha\" (1975).\n\nIn 1977, Mala Sinha starred in the Bengali remake titled \"Kabita\", playing the role of Jaya Prada. Kamal Haasan made his Bengali film debut with this film by acting in the same role that he played in the Tamil original film. Bharat Shamsher directed the black-and-white film.\n\nThe film was remade in Hindi as \"Jeevan Dhaara\" (1982) by director Tatineni Rama Rao. Rekha did the role of Jaya Prada. Raj Babbar did the role of Rajinikanth. Rakesh Roshan did the role of Kamal Haasan, Amol Palekar did the role of Narayana Rao. Karan Razdan did the conductor role, Simple Kapadia (sister of Dimple Kapadia) did Phataphat Jayalaxmi's role. The film was shot in color. The film was a decent hit.\n\nIn 1983, Balachander produced the Kannada remake titled \"Benkiyalli Aralida Hoovu\", directed by Chandulal Jain and starring Suhasini, whose real-life uncle Kamal Haasan played the guest role of a bus conductor in this remake. The film was shot in color.\n\n\n\n\nAll songs are penned by Athreya and the music is composed by M. S. Viswanathan.\n"}
{"id": "33374771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33374771", "title": "Azerbaijan State Academic National Drama Theatre", "text": "Azerbaijan State Academic National Drama Theatre\n\nThe Azerbaijan State Academic Drama Theatre () is an academic theatre of drama in Baku, Azerbaijan.\n\nThe theatre has its origins in national holidays and dances. Elements of theatricality were contained in many kinds of national creativity accompanying national festivities, traditional holidays and other occasions. On 10 March 1873, under the guidance of Hasan bey Zardabi and with the participation of students of the Real School of Baku, a performance was held – M.F.Akhundov’s \"Vizier of Lankaran khanate\" comedy was showas heldwn. The professional Azerbaijani theatre was originated after this very performance. In 1919, separated troupes joined up and the theatre acquired the state recognition.\n\nThen Azerbaijan Dramatic Theatre had different names in different years-\"State Theatre\", \"United State Theatre\", \"Azerbaijani Turkic Drama Theatre\" and others. Through 1923-1933, the theatre was named after Dadash Bunyatzade, but in 1933-1991, it was named afterMeshadi Azizbekov. In 1991, the theatre was renamed to the \"Azerbaijan State Academic Drama Theatre\".\n\nDuring the Soviet period the theatre was awarded many awards of the USSR for successful activity. Such actors as Huseyn Arablinski, Mukhtar Dadashev, Jahangir Zeynalov, Mirzaagha Aliyev, Sidgi Ruhulla, Alasgar Alakbarov, Adil Isgenderov, Barat Shekinskaya, Leyla Badirbeyli and other famous actors played at the theater during its activity period. Plays to works of Jafar Jabbarli, Mirza Fatali Akhundov, Ali bey Huseynzade, Najaf bey Vazirov, Huseyn Javid, Sabit Rahman, Nariman Narimanov, Ilyas Efediyev, also to works of other world classics such as Shakespeare, Schiller, Molière, Dumas, Hugo, Balzac, Pushkin, Lermontov, Tolstoy, Gogol were staged in the theatre.\n\nThe troup of the theatre was repeatedly in tours-in Moscow, Saint Petersburg, Kazan, Tbilisi, Tashkent, Ashgabat, Turkey, Germany and Cyprus. Some performances were awarded state grants of the USSR and Azerbaijan.\n\nPeople’s actors\n\n•Sayavush Aslan\n\n•Yashar Nuri\n\n•Nureddin Guliyev\n\n•Basti Bekirova\n\n•Firangiz Mutallimova\n\n•Rafael Dadashov\n\n•Ilham Alesgerov\n\n•Zarnigar Atakishiyeva\n\n•Telman Adigozalov and others\n\nHonoured actors\n\n•Asger Mamedoglu\n\n•Sabir Mamedov\n\n•Jafar Namig Kamal\n\n•Sadig Imanov\n\n•Saida Guliyeva\n\n•Parviz Bagirov and others\n\nChief director\n\n•Merahim Farzalibeyov\n"}
{"id": "14242409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14242409", "title": "Baum und Pferdgarten", "text": "Baum und Pferdgarten\n\nBaum und Pferdgarten is a Danish fashion house.\n\nRikke Baumgarten and Helle Hestehave began designing their collections as newly graduated designers in the part of Copenhagen called Nørrebro. Today their office is situated in Vognmagergade in central Copenhagen, which is also the location of the Baum und Pferdgarten flagship store which opened in February 2010. The interior of the shop was created by the designers together with, amongst others “Femmes Regionales” and “all the way to paris”. \n\nCurrently Baum und Pferdgarten is available in more than 20 countries worldwide.\n\nIn 2009 the company experienced economical difficulties but survived due to the investment of Bruuns Bazaar A/S who became majority shareholder.\n\n"}
{"id": "8421659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8421659", "title": "Beast poetry", "text": "Beast poetry\n\nBeast poetry, in the context of European literature and medieval studies, refers to a corpus of poems written in Latin from the 8th to the 11th century.\n\nThese poems draw upon an ancient literary tradition of anthropomorphic animals dating back into antiquity and exemplified by Aesop. They are the immediate foundation for the flowering of Reynard literature that occurred in the 12th century. Elements from beast poetry have been adapted into subsequent works ranging from the \"Canterbury Tales\" to contemporary movies made with computer animation.\n\nAlthough it makes sense to discuss beast poetry as a single corpus of literature, they do not form a genre but rather:\n\nThe medieval Latin poems have few immediately discernible traits in common with one another. They were not the products of the same time or region. They range greatly in length... In structure, a beast poem can be as humble as one speech by a bird struggling to fly home safely... but then again it can intertwine a dozen main stories and another dozen visions, reminiscences, and divagations... The beast poems were created for many occasions and audiences... to be pored over in the library... read aloud, sung, and staged... Some were perhaps scripts for schoolroom performances... others for recitation in the refectory.\n\n"}
{"id": "17471334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17471334", "title": "Belfast (Boney M. song)", "text": "Belfast (Boney M. song)\n\n\"Belfast\" is the second single of the Euro disco band Boney M.'s 1977 album \"Love for Sale\". \"Belfast\" was the first Boney M. single to feature lead vocals by Marcia Barrett and became their 4th consecutive German chart-topper. In the UK Singles Chart it peaked at No. 8. It remained a popular track in the group's live shows over the years and was re-recorded by Marcia Barrett as a solo track on her album \"Come Into My Life\" (2005).\n\n\"Belfast\" was written by Drafi Deutscher and originally entitled \"Londonderry\". The lyrics refer to the divided city during the height of The Troubles in Northern Ireland.\n\nDeutscher had written the song for Marcia Barrett when she was a solo artist in the early 1970s. Due to shortage of their own material when Boney M. performed their first live gigs, Marcia Barrett performed the song which had been a popular live track for her. \"Belfast\" turned out to be as popular for Boney M. on stage as it had been for Barrett. The sound engineer of the group noticed the response at each gig where the song was performed. He told Frank Farian about it and Farian decided to record the track for the next Boney M. album, \"Love For Sale\".\n\nFarian also recorded a German version of \"Belfast\" with Gilla. Her version was included on the album \"Zieh mich aus\" which was released around four months earlier than Boney M.'s \"Love For Sale\".\n\nIn the US and Canada, the song was never released and was replaced by \"Daddy Cool\" on the album due to the political context of the song.\n\nThe single was backed with \"Plantation Boy\" in all territories. In Germany, Benelux, France, the UK and Turkey, the singles featured the B-side fading 20 seconds earlier than the album version.\n"}
{"id": "46356951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46356951", "title": "BookCon", "text": "BookCon\n\nBookCon is an annual fan convention established in 2014 in New York City. Taking the name format from other fan conventions such as Comic-Con, BookCon was established to combine pop culture and the book industry. Many authors, celebrities and publishing professionals attend BookCon.\n\nBookCon is run by ReedPOP, which also organizes New York Comic Con, Chicago Comic & Entertainment Expo, Star Wars Celebration, and other events. BookCon was created to boost the image and attendance of long-running book fair BookExpo America.\n\nThe first BookCon was held May 31, 2014, at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in New York City. On May 30, a sneak preview event was held with the \"This Is Where I Leave You\" Q&A panel, featuring author Jonathan Tropper and stars of the film version, Jason Bateman and Tina Fey.\n\nThe event featured a panel with best-selling novelist John Grisham. Other writers and stars there for Q&As and autograph signing included Amy Poehler (\"Yes Please\"), Martin Short (\"I Must Say: My Life as a Humble Comedy Legend\"), Jodi Picoult (\"Leaving Time\"), Kathy Reichs (\"Bones Never Lie\"), and Ruth Reichl (\"Delicious!\").\n\nNickelodeon also organized a \"\" storytime for children.\n\nThe second edition took place May 30–31 at the Javits Center in New York City. Scheduled authors for the event included James Patterson, Candace Bushnell, Sherman Alexie, Julianne Moore, Aziz Ansari, Mindy Kaling and B.J. Novak. John Hodgman of \"The Daily Show\" led a panel discussion with comedian Nick Offerman (\"Parks and Recreation\"), whose second book, \"Gumption: Relighting the Torch of Freedom with America's Gutsiest Troublemakers\", was released May 26.\n\nThe third BookCon was held May 14, 2016 at McCormick Place in Chicago. The event was shortened to one day, which caused complaints from fans that it was too short. About 7,000 people attended the event. Authors at the event included Alexandra Bracken, Khloé Kardashian, Kate DiCamillo, Sherman Alexie and Meg Cabot.\n\nThe fourth BookCon was scheduled for June 3-4, 2017, at the Javits Center in New York City. Authors announced include Dan Brown, Margaret Atwood, Kwame Alexander, Cory Doctorow, Shea Serrano, Rainbow Rowell, Veronica Roth and Soman Chainani. Celebrities scheduled for the event include scientist Bill Nye and actors Jeffrey Tambor, Mayim Bialik, Krysten Ritter, Chad Michael Murray and Andrew McCarthy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12252174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12252174", "title": "Bosnia and Herzegovina art", "text": "Bosnia and Herzegovina art\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina art is art from the region of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and its constituent ethno-religious groups (Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats) from prehistoric times to today.\n\nIn the boundaries of today’s Bosnia and Herzegovina there have been many layers of prehistory cultures and their creation and disappearance is linked to migrations of unidentified ethnic groups.\n\nPaleolithic in Bosnia and Herzegovina is marked with the oldest monument of Paleolithic in southeastern Europe - engravings in a cave named \"Badanj\" near Stolac in Herzegovina. Most famous being the \"Horse attacked by arrows\", preserved in fragments and dated around 14500-12000 B.C.\n\nDuring the time when Neolithic and Copper cultures were starting to appear, in Bosnia and Herzegovina began interesting mixture of Mediterranean cultures and those of Panonian cultures.\nHerzegovina was under the influence of impresso ceramics from western Mediterranean as seen in \"Green Cave\" near Mostar, \"Čairi\" near Stolac, \"Lisičići\" near Konjic and \"Peć Mlini\" near Grude. People used to live in caves or simple settlements on hilltops.\nIn the upper mainstream of Bosna river and northeast parts of Bosnia (\"Obra I\" near Kakanj) people used to live in wooden houses built along rivers. In that culture we can see influences from Adriatic cultures on south and \"Starčević culture\" on northeast. Original expressions of that culture are ceramic pots on four legs, so called – Rhyton. We can find the also in \"Danilo culture\" on the Croatian coast. Thanks to these pieces, Kakanj culture is considered a part of wide circle of Neolithic nations that followed a \"cult of life force\" (from northern Italy, Dalmatia and Epirus to Aegean).\nButmir Culture near Sarajevo is distinctive with fine glazed ceramics with miscellaneous geometrical decorations (often spirals). Figures from Butmir are unique sculptures modeled with hand; heads are almost like portraits with emphasized parts of body.\n\nBronze Age settlements in Herzegovina were built like citadels (natively called - \"gradina\"), and in Bosnia we have necropolises with stone tumuli. During that time, bronze arms, decorated plates, flat necklaces and fibulas were decorated with specific geometrical style of engraved ornaments.\nFrom 7th century BC bronze is replaced by iron, and only jewelry and art objects were still made out of bronze. Bronze culture of Illyrians, ethnic group with distinct culture and art form started to organize itself on today’s Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Different Illyrian tribes, under the influence of Halstat cultures from north, formed original regional centers. With the notable exception of Pod near Bugojno in the upper valley of the Vrbas River, nothing is known of their settlements. In eastern Bosnia in the cemeteries of \"Belotić\" and \"Bela Crkva\", the rites of inhumation and cremation are attested, with skeletons in stone cists and cremations in urns. Metal implements appear here side-by-side with stone implements. Most of the remains belong to the fully developed Middle Bronze Age.\nVery important role in their life was \"the cult of the dead\", which is seen in their careful burials and burial ceremonies, as well as richness of the burial sites. In northern parts there was long tradition of cremation and burial in shallow graves, while in the south the dead were buried in large stone, or earth tumuli (natively called – \"gromile\") that in Herzegovina were reaching monumental sizes, more than 50 m wide and 5 m high.\n\"Japodian\" tribes (found around Bihać) have had affinity to decoration (heavy, oversized necklaces out of yellow, blue or white glass paste, and large bronze fibulas, as well as spiral bracelets, diadems and helmets out of bronze foil.\n\nIn 4th century BC first outbreak of Celts is recorded. They brought the technique of the pottery wheel, new types of fibulas and different bronze and iron belts. They only passed on their way to Greece, so their influence in Bosnia and Herzegovina is negligible.\n\nIn the Neretva Delta in the south there was important Hellenistic influence of Illyrian tribe Daors. Their capital was Daorson in \"Ošanići\" near Stolac; to date, main center of Ancient culture in B&H. Daorson in 4th century BC was surrounded by megalithic, stonewalls (large as those of Mycenae in Greece), composed out of large trapeze stones blocks. Daors have made their unique bronze coins and sculptures.\nFinally, Romans subdued the Illyrians in first century BC, and after that the history of these parts is history of Illyrian provinces of Rome and Byzantium.\n\nIn Bosnia and Herzegovina Romans built several small temples decorated with reliefs. The complex of \"step sanctuary in Gradac\" near Posušje from year 184 AD had marble temple dedicated to recently deceased emperor Marcus Aurelius.\nOn the reliefs we can feel naturalism of native craftsmen, and in mosaics the Hellenistic influence, especially in those found in villas near Stolac (second half of the 3rd century).\nLate Roman art in B&H is marked with building of villas, Christian mausoleums, basilicas and oratories like: \"Mausoleum in Šipovo\" near Jajce and \"Villa Mogorjelo\" near Čapljina (early 4th century).\nSculptures that we inherited are ones like: \"Hellenistic relief of Minerva, Jupiter and genius-protector from Šipovo\" (2nd century) and extremely barbarically stylized relief of \"four friends from Zenica\" (end of the 4th century).\n\nIn Bosnia and Herzegovina the Romanesque influence came from Croatia and it was never accepted in full, only in use of some elements. Those few monuments with Romanesque elements that were preserved are dating from later times. For example: in the motifs from tombstones in Bosnia – natively called stećak (14th century), or the high parts of \"Tower of St. Luke\" in Jajce (15th century).\n\nInfluences of Gothic art in the 14th century are supported by culture of urban cities, preaching orders, and knightly culture. On Bosnian culture there was slight influence of religion and the strong one of Nobility. That is recognizable in the organization of a city that is actually a settlement close to feudal fortress. Feudal fortress is of thick roughly cut stonewalls, shape is following the terrain, buildings have steppe roofs and towers are often and high. The most beautiful one is perhaps \"Royal Court in Kraljeva Sutjeska\"; it has gothic portals and windows, buttresses, and high rooftops (very practical because of snow).\n\nThe way some Bosnian nobility treated its dead is somewhat special. From the earliest times of Bosnian Kingdom the nobility was buried in large necropolises near the roads with graves marked by a monumental tombstone called stećak. Stećak (or \"mramor\" or \"bilig\") comes in several different shapes and was sometimes engraved with reliefs showing all sorts of motifs, from figurative to symbols, and sometimes writings in Bosnian Cyrillic. Their existence is strongly linked with heretical Bosnian Church and most of the motifs are derived from their beliefs, but some derived from Romanesque (crosses, arcades with semi-circular arches, son, half-moon etc.) and Gothic (arcades with sharp arches, knight riders, shields, swords, lilies etc.) art of the West.\n\nThere are two beautiful examples of illuminated manuscripts from medieval Bosnia. \"Hval’s missionary\", kept in Zagreb, is ravishingly decorated manuscript with many miniatures. \"Misal Hrvoja Vukčića Hrvatinića\" - a liturgical book of the Bosnian duke and ruler of Dalmatia - Hrvoje Vukčić Hrvatinić, today in Istanbul, is colourfully painted with many details of knightly culture (knights, crests etc.). Both were painted in Split, Croatia.\n\nIn the 16th century, entire Bosnia was under Ottoman rule so the influences of renaissance and later baroque from west were extinguished. The only places where some western art could be fined were lonesome Franciscan monasteries in Visoko, Kreševo, Franciscan monastery in Fojnica, Franciscan monastery in Kraljeva Sutjeska etc.\n\nHowever, that opened a new era in B&H art, that of Islamic Art and it flourished until the 19th century. Actually there were three constant art traditions in B&H living side by side: Catholic-Western one, Orthodox-Byzantine (unique illuminated manuscripts and painted icons) and one and Ottoman-Islamic that was the most powerful one.\n\nOttomans were developing urban cities very fast upon their conquest of B&H. Enriched by Islamic and Byzantine experiences they build so much that it can be compared only with medieval building in Dalmatian cities. For example, in Foča in 16th century Ottomans build 17 mosques, 29 public fountains, 6 public baths (\"hamam\") and 13 caravanserai motels (han).\nSarajevo is an example of a non-urban open city where the most important buildings are organized around one veining street – \"čaršija\" (Persian chahar-su meaning all four sides). In Sarajevo the largest is famous Baščaršija with shops of 50 different crafts from the 15th century. Also in Baščaršija is most impressive \"Gazi Husrev-beg’s mosque\", also known as \"Beg’s mosque\", built in 1531. Founded on Byzantine central square plan it has dome on large drum, two smaller domes leaning on both sides of drum and a semi-dome behind; in addition, above entrance is a porch with five tiny domes. Inside it is filled with rich wall ornaments in wood and Arabic calligraphic writings. The complex is complete with a high tower (\"munara\") and fountain (\"šedrvan\") in the courtyard.\n\nIslamic manuscripts, decorated in the Persian style with beautiful Islamic calligraphy, were often in B&H so now we have numerous examples in the Bosnian libraries.\nIn the 16th century the Jews expelled from Spain came to Sarajevo, where they were allowed to settle. Beside important influence on Bosnian culture, they brought with them luxury decorated manuscript called Sarajevo Haggadah from the 14th century, now in the Sarajevo museum.\n\nThe bridge in Islamic art was very important, not only because it request great skill of an architect, but also because of symbolic meaning of a bridge in Islam where it is a mediator between heaven and earth. That’s why there is no surprise that the high point of Islamic architecture in B&H is a bridge. Bridge of artisan \"Hajredin\" (pupil of the famous architect Mimar Sinan from Istanbul) in Mostar (so called: Old Bridge) with its arch over river Neretva is 29 m long and 19.5 m high. With subtle parabola it looks higher and more fragile than it is, an effect seen only in Gothic cathedrals.\n\nIn Bosnian Islamic architecture, stone is reserved for religious, public buildings and fortifications, while private houses were built out of wood and \"ćerpić\" (native simple bonding material made of clay and straw). With often consol constructions of the upper floors they could be more open with large windows.\nWhen the power of Ottomans started to descend in the middle of the 17th century, so did the influence of Islamic art in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nRight after the Austro-Hungarian occupation the art scene in Bosnia comes alive. Intense building is represented in modernisation and structural transformation of cities. Architecture is in eclectic pseudo styles like classicism, neo-renaissance, neo-baroque, and even neo-Romanesque, and neo-gothic. Unique pseudo style is \"“oriental eclectic”\" style (also \"Pseudo-Moorish style\") based on Moorish architecture of southern Spain and Egypt. That style, was quite foreign to urban ambient of Bosnian cities as can be seen in Sarajevo (National Library and City Hall), Mostar Gymnasium and Travnik (Retirement Home).\n\nThe first Bosnian artists were educated in large European academies (Vienna, München, Prag, Krakow, Budapest and Paris) thanks to scholarships of cultural societies like “Prosvjeta” and “Napredak”. All those artists like Atanasije Popović, Lazar Drljača, Gabrijel Jurkić, Branko Radulović, Petar Šain etc., are marked with academism with slight touches of impressionism, art nouveau, and pointillism. After the Great Exhibition of Bosnian Artists in 1917, the native born artists have prevailed. Modern styles that entered B&H were expressionism and Cézannes-ism.\n\nAfter the end of World War I, the society of artists from SHS (state of Serbians, Croats and Slovenians) was organized and they held numerous exhibitions and artistic gatherings like \"the Blažuj colony\" of Vladimir Becić. Participants of that colony were Roman Petrović and Jovan Bijelić that derived their art to abstract form (c. 1920), while Karlo Mijić is devoted to colouristic landscapes. Karlo Mijić, with art nouveau and impressionistic influences was probably the best painter of 20s and 30s in the entire Yugoslavia.\n\nSadly, the art production in B&H was reduced to crumbs by the Yugoslavian government, so lots of artist never returned to B&H from their studies in Zagreb and Beograd, while many were also leaving the country.\nFirst renewal happened with the \"“Group of Four”\" and \"“engaged art”\" of Roman Petrović and his cycle called \"“The children of the Street”.\"\nMijić and \"Đoko Mazalić\" founded the art association called \"“Krug”\" (The Circle) with strong urban aesthetics of nature.\nVojo Dimitrijević painted \"“Spain in ‘37”\"; a representative artwork of colouristic expression with traces of Picasso and Chagall.\n\nIn thirties the architects were influenced by ideas of functionalism, humane architecture and Bauhaus. Those buildings were uniting a function, content and form, without unnecessary plastic decoration, and with simple rhythm of windows and modern constructions (former \"Social Security Building\" in Mostar by Drago Ibler, 1935.).\n\nRight after World War II, and founding the new country of all south Slavs Communist Yugoslavia, the artist have found new expression through themes of Revolution and War. Ismet Mujezinović draws numerous expressionistic figures in his cycle \"“The Battle of Sutjeska”\", and Branko Šotra made powerful almost abstract engravings.\nArchitecture was also under the direct influence of Socialistic architecture, but never reached the monumentality of the original works.\n\nIn the fifties, careful and slow, the transformation of art through economy and decoration toward abstraction happened. The first was sculptor \"Mirko Ostoja\" who replaced classical modeling with iron welding. Even the Communist State changed its feeling toward modern art by commissioning large abstract monuments dedicated to famous battles in The War (Sutjeska, Kozara, Makljen etc.).\nYoung architects, gathered around professor \"Juraj Neidhardt\", were trying to achieve connections of modern architecture and B&H tradition and surroundings. Those were buildings like The Mostar Mall - \"“Razvitak”\" in 1970 by \"A. Paljaga\" or \"Jajce Mall\" in 1976 by \"R. Jadrić, Dž. Karić and N. Kurto\".\n\nIn the sixties many architects were leaving traditional boundaries and made important buildings in manner of functionalism: The telecommunication building in Addis Abeba by Ivan Štraus and Zdravko Kovacević, or \"“Skenderija” Hall\" in Sarajevo by Živorad Janković and Halid Muhasilović\n\nIn the seventies, the rewarded architectural plans were \"Zenica Theatre\" in 1977 by \"Jahiel Finci\" and \"Zlatko Ugljen\", \"Hotel Rose\" in Mostar (1979, by Zlatko Ugljen) and \"Gripe Hall\" in Split (1980, by Živorad Janković and S. Rozić).\n\nAn art expression inspired by old Bosnian culture and tradition appeared in the graphic work of Dževad Hozo and in paintings of \"Mehmed Zaimović, Seid Hasanefendić and Mersad Berber\". Quite opposite to that, the urban expression of \"Ismar Mujezinović\" is more related to modern film montage and photo-optics, while Braco Dimitrijević is a Conceptual artist who works mainly outside B&H.\n\nAn example of architecture in the eighties is \"Holiday Inn Hotel\" built in 1983 and the \"“Unis” Twin Towers\" built in Sarajevo in 1986 and designed by Ivan Štraus. Among the people of the city, the twin towers are commonly called Momo (Serbian name) and Uzeir (Bosniak name).\n\nCultural preservation is under way in Bosnia and Herzegovina which can be seen with the most recent reconstruction of Stari most in Mostar and many other structures of cultural and historical significance which were damaged or destroyed in the recent war. Many other projects, unfortunately, are still stifled by political disputes and lack of funds.\n\nCommercial construction in the years following the Bosnian War has seen a boom in Sarajevo. Sarajevo is one of the cities with the most construction in southeastern Europe. \"The Unis Twin Towers\" have been renovated completely. On the site of the former \"Oslobodjenje Towers\", \"the Avaz towers\" have now been constructed. In the \"Hrasno\" residential area, the Bosnian Company Bosmal has constructed the Bosmal City Center, which includes the tallest set of twin towers in the Balkans at 120 meters each.\n\nThe Avaz Twist Tower located in Marijin Dvor, Sarajevo is the tallest tower in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is the new headquarters for Avaz, the most popular Bosnia and Herzegovina newspaper company.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12276216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12276216", "title": "Brief (architecture)", "text": "Brief (architecture)\n\nAn architectural brief is a statement of a client's requirements, which form the basis for appointing an architect. The brief describes the requirements that need to be reconciled and accommodated, and is developed first as a design which is submitted for approval, and subsequently constructed as a building or other structure. A brief is a written document that might be anything from a single page to a multiple volume set of documents. \nThe term program is often used today, in conjunction with, and in part as a synonym of, an \"architectural brief\". \"Program\" is used more often in the United States whereas 'brief' is used more outside the United States, internationally. An architect's design is considered the response to the building program.\n\nThe architectural brief is often formulated by, or in collaboration with, the architect. It often includes opportunities assessed, constraints identified and needs for further investigation clarified.\n\nIn the early stages of the design process the brief may be continuously reappraised as the requirements become clearer - this is known as 'firming up the brief'. Ultimately, a clear set of instructions setting out the overarching goals and detailed requirements will emerge which form the starting point of the architect's designs and will be continually tested against, as designs are progressed.\n\nIn the later stages of writing a brief, a schedule of accommodation is sometimes drawn up that will specify precisely the number and size of rooms that will be required, the relationships between rooms and groups of rooms, the finishes, equipment, furniture that will fit the room for its functional purpose and the environmental conditions that will assist the purpose. Environmental conditions might include temperature range, humidity, air movement, acoustic isolation, etc..The schedule of accommodation is prepared by an expert to help in determining the minimum space required on site to develop and finish a given design .The schedule of accommodation is guided by the brief analysis of every space since every space have set standards and requirement.\n\nFor complex facilities, the brief may be prepared by a specialist consultant, separate from the design architect. In such projects, workshops are often employed with project participants: owners, users, customers, facility experts, builders/contractors and other designers brought together for an intensive one- or two-day period to devise the critical aspects of the brief.\n\nIf the brief will provide a large number of similar spaces, for example, in a hospital, then room/space 'types' might be defined, as a type of 'space dictionary' that is then used to inform room or space groupings. These space groupings are then assembled into related sets of rooms to meet a functional or service requirement. The critical component of the related sets is that the interactions between rooms are set out, with details as to the type of interaction. For example, if escorted patients, beds and medical equipment are to be moved, or if individuals or groups of people will move between spaces, the architect's design will need to acknowledge the different design responses to be made.\n\nThe information used to assemble a 'space dictionary' can be quite detailed, with a schedule produced that lists, for each room, parameters, the requirement against the parameter, and any particular performance needs.\n\nParameters might include: population (median and peak), area, minimum height, floor loading, floor finish and skirting requirements, including any plinths, hobs or set-downs, wall finishes, including wall protection needs (pertinent in hospitals, warehouses, etc.), ceiling finish, including acoustic needs, engineering services required: power, lighting, air-conditioning, water, drainage, communications, etc.; environmental conditions: air temperature, humidity, noise level, air movement; access and security needs; FFE (furniture, fittings and equipment), with note made of mass, dimensions, power requirements, energy evolved, noise produced, ventilation and extraction needed, service and operating clearances; fire safety.\n\nA thorough brief will start with a definition of the services or functions to be accommodated, decomposing these functions into specific sub-functions and then to activities. A 'functional brief' is thus compiled. This brief is used to, in turn, create the architectural brief, that sets out the accommodation specifics for preparation of design options.\n\nFor critical facilities, the project manager or owner may require the architect to validate the design against the brief, producing a report that shows in tabular form, how and where, the design meets the brief. This avoids misunderstanding of drawings that can arise when non-experts are asked to review them. A graphical validation might include demonstration of the movement expected between spaces, and show how a proximity diagram is modeled onto the design layout.\n\n"}
{"id": "15347881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15347881", "title": "Broighter Gold", "text": "Broighter Gold\n\nThe Broighter Gold or more correctly, the Broighter Hoard, is a hoard of gold artefacts from the Iron Age of the 1st century BC that were found in 1896 by Tom Nicholl and James Morrow on farmland near Limavady, in the north of Ireland (now Northern Ireland). The hoard includes a gold boat, a gold torc and bowl and some other jewellery. A design from the hoard has been used as an image on the 1996 issue of the Northern Ireland British one-pound coins and the gold ship featured in a design on the last Irish one-pound coins. The Broighter Collar and Broighter Ship also featured on definitive postage stamps of Ireland from 1990–1995. The National Museum of Ireland, who now hold the hoard, describe the torc as the \"finest example of Irish La Tène goldworking\". Replicas of the collection are kept at the Ulster Museum in Belfast.\n\nThe hoard was found near Lough Foyle in a field in the townland of Broighter () 2 km northwest of Limavady in County Londonderry. It was discovered by Thomas Nicholl and James Morrow while working as ploughmen for Joseph L. Gibson in February 1896. They found the hoard whilst double ploughing. That means that one plough would follow the other to gain extra depth. It was estimated that the finds were buried deep and were in close proximity to each other.\n\nThe find was taken to the farm where Maggie (later Mrs Nicholl) washed the items in a sink. At that time they did not realise they were made from gold. The hoard was eventually sold to the British Museum for six hundred pounds. It consisted of a miniature ship, complete with fittings and oars; two necklets, a bowl and a torc (or hollow collar). The find was described as a lump of mud when initially shown. Moreover, the boat had been so badly damaged by the plough that it took a goldsmith to later work out its structure.\n\nPart of the boat, a thwart, was found a few days later and sold by Morrow's sister to a jeweller in Londonderry.\n\nThe gold in the hoard all has the same metallurgical character, despite the diverse styles of the pieces. Some appear to be imported, while others may be reworked or entirely remade.\n\nThe boat is a unique find that was measured at by and weighed . It had benches, rowlocks, two rows of nine oars and a paddle rudder for steering. It also included tools for grappling, three forks, a yardarm and a spear. The tools are of much lighter design than the ship's hull and are shown in the illustration. The boat suggests that the hoard was a votive deposit to the Celtic sea god Manannán mac Lir.\n\nThe other remarkable item was the torc or collar which is in diameter with buffer terminals, using a mortice and tenon fastening. The hollow tube that made up the ring is in diameter. The hinge is no longer there but it would have been required to put on the collar. The fastening consists of a \"T\" piece which fits into a slot as the torc is closed. A section can then be turned which captures the \"T\" and prevents it opening.\n\nThe design has been applied in three ways, the most common is where the classical designs of generic plants has been revealed by beating back the surrounding gold. Other areas have additional pieces attached and the background has been incised in geometric curves to add to the decoration.\n\nThere are no comparable La Tène style hollow torcs known from Ireland, although somewhat similar examples such as the Snettisham Torc are known from Britain in this period. The design on the torc can be studied easily by imagining the hollow tube as straightened and flattened. This was done in the first study of the hoard by Arthur Evans and his drawing can be seen here. The design matches other Irish pieces, and may have been a remodelling of a plainer British or Rhineland torc (the Rhineland is one possible source of the gold).\n\nAn unusual gold bowl or model cauldron which was made from a single sheet of gold was discovered. Its purpose is unclear but it was probably a model of a large cauldron, which was an important object in the feasting culture of Iron Age Europe. It had four suspension loops on the outside, not all surviving. It is in diameter and is about deep. It weighs over . Hanging bowls were later to be a distinctive feature of post-Roman British and Irish art, often thought to be a speciality of Celtic areas.\n\nThere are two chain necklaces, using loop-in-loop technique, with clasps. One is 39.6 cm long, with triple chains, the other with a single chain but of more complicated construction. The chain technique spread from the Middle East to the Roman world, where these were probably made; the clasps match Roman and Etruscan examples.\n\nThere are also two torcs made from single twisted bars of gold, a British style. One is complete, with a diameter of 18.6 cm, the other a semi-circular fragment. Despite unusual hook-in-loop fastenings and other features, these are probably imports from what is now south-eastern England.\n\nThe hoard was sold by the farmer, J.L.Gibson, to a jeweller in Derry who sold it to a local antiquarian, Robert Day. He sold it to the British Museum for £600. The museum had undisturbed ownership until the renowned Arthur Evans wrote a paper describing the find in 1897. The drawing of the torc design comes from this paper. The Royal Irish Academy disputed the British Museum's view that it was an ancient gift to the gods and launched a long running court case. The Academy wanted the finds to be declared treasure trove, that is, buried with the intention of recovery. Day, the antiquarian, was so aggrieved to have his sale disputed that he withdrew a gift he was going to make to the Irish Academy.\n\nIt was argued that the model of the boat and the \"sea-horse image\" on the torc when combined with the finding of nearby shells showed that the treasure had been placed in water deliberately as an offering to ancient gods. The map above shows how close the find was both to the sea and to reclaimed land where the railway then travelled. The British Museum's position was set out by Evans who had described the find as \"votive\" in his 1897 paper – ironically something the Academy's successor, the National Museum of Ireland, now consider likely, saying on their website: \"The objects may have been buried as an offering to a Celtic god, presumably during the first Century BC\".\n\nThe dispute was finally settled by a court in London in 1903 in an important case where the government was represented by Sir Edward Carson, who was a Unionist and Solicitor-General. A pivotal issue in the case were that the finds were all closely packed which was indicative of burial. It was held that the treasure was not a religious offering and was therefore forfeit to the crown. The treasure was taken to Dublin and placed in the museum there. Although some have suggested that the gold should be transferred to nearer their find-spot in what is now Northern Ireland, the items remain in the National Museum of Ireland in Dublin.\n\nThe hoard is considered an important find. The National Museum of Ireland believes that the collar is the \"finest example of Irish La Tène goldworking\" in Europe. The eclecticism of the styles is comparable to that of the objects in the Stirling Hoard from Scotland, probably from a slightly earlier period. The torc was incorporated into a 1996 design for a British pound by Norman Sillman and the boat was used as a basis for the design for the last pound coin ever issued by the Irish Mint. This coin was issued to celebrate the millennium in 2000.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "647630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=647630", "title": "Byzantine art", "text": "Byzantine art\n\nByzantine art refers to the body of Christian Greek artistic products of the Eastern Roman (Byzantine) Empire, as well as the nations and states that inherited culturally from the empire. Though the empire itself emerged from Rome's decline and lasted until the Fall of Constantinople in 1453, the start date of the Byzantine period is rather clearer in art history than in political history, if still imprecise. Many Eastern Orthodox states in Eastern Europe, as well as to some degree the Muslim states of the eastern Mediterranean, preserved many aspects of the empire's culture and art for centuries afterward.\n\nA number of states contemporary with the Byzantine Empire were culturally influenced by it, without actually being part of it (the \"Byzantine commonwealth\"). These included the Rus, as well as some non-Orthodox states like the Republic of Venice, which separated from the Byzantine empire in the 10th century, and the Kingdom of Sicily, which had close ties to the Byzantine Empire and had also been a Byzantine possession until the 10th century with a large Greek-speaking population persisting into the 12th century. Other states having a Byzantine artistic tradition had oscillated throughout the Middle Ages between being part of the Byzantine empire and having periods of independence, such as Serbia and Bulgaria. After the fall of the Byzantine capital of Constantinople in 1453, art produced by Eastern Orthodox Christians living in the Ottoman Empire was often called \"post-Byzantine.\" Certain artistic traditions that originated in the Byzantine Empire, particularly in regard to icon painting and church architecture, are maintained in Greece, Cyprus, Serbia, Bulgaria, Romania, Russia and other Eastern Orthodox countries to the present day.\n\nByzantine art originated and evolved from the Christianized Greek culture of the Eastern Roman Empire; content from both Christianity and classical Greek mythology were artistically expressed through Hellenistic modes of style and iconography. The art of Byzantium never lost sight of its classical heritage; the Byzantine capital, Constantinople, was adorned with a large number of classical sculptures, although they eventually became an object of some puzzlement for its inhabitants (however, Byzantine beholders showed no signs of puzzlement towards other forms of classical media such as wall paintings). The basis of Byzantine art is a fundamental artistic attitude held by the Byzantine Greeks who, like their ancient Greek predecessors, \"were never satisfied with a play of forms alone, but stimulated by an innate rationalism, endowed forms with life by associating them with a meaningful content.\" Although the art produced in the Byzantine Empire was marked by periodic revivals of a classical aesthetic, it was above all marked by the development of a new aesthetic defined by its salient \"abstract\", or anti-naturalistic character. If classical art was marked by the attempt to create representations that mimicked reality as closely as possible, Byzantine art seems to have abandoned this attempt in favor of a more symbolic approach.\n\nThe nature and causes of this transformation, which largely took place during late antiquity, have been a subject of scholarly debate for centuries. Giorgio Vasari attributed it to a decline in artistic skills and standards, which had in turn been revived by his contemporaries in the Italian Renaissance. Although this point of view has been occasionally revived, most notably by Bernard Berenson, modern scholars tend to take a more positive view of the Byzantine aesthetic. Alois Riegl and Josef Strzygowski, writing in the early 20th century, were above all responsible for the revaluation of late antique art. Riegl saw it as a natural development of pre-existing tendencies in Roman art, whereas Strzygowski viewed it as a product of \"oriental\" influences. Notable recent contributions to the debate include those of Ernst Kitzinger, who traced a \"dialectic\" between \"abstract\" and \"Hellenistic\" tendencies in late antiquity, and John Onians, who saw an \"increase in visual response\" in late antiquity, through which a viewer \"could look at something which was in twentieth-century terms purely abstract and find it representational.\"\n\nIn any case, the debate is purely modern: it is clear that most Byzantine viewers did not consider their art to be abstract or unnaturalistic. As Cyril Mango has observed, \"our own appreciation of Byzantine art stems largely from the fact that this art is not naturalistic; yet the Byzantines themselves, judging by their extant statements, regarded it as being highly naturalistic and as being directly in the tradition of Phidias, Apelles, and Zeuxis.\"\n\nThe subject matter of monumental Byzantine art was primarily religious and imperial: the two themes are often combined, as in the portraits of later Byzantine emperors that decorated the interior of the sixth-century church of Hagia Sophia in Constantinople. These preoccupations are partly a result of the pious and autocratic nature of Byzantine society, and partly a result of its economic structure: the wealth of the empire was concentrated in the hands of the church and the imperial office, which had the greatest opportunity to undertake monumental artistic commissions.\n\nReligious art was not, however, limited to the monumental decoration of church interiors. One of the most important genres of Byzantine art was the icon, an image of Christ, the Virgin, or a saint, used as an object of veneration in Orthodox churches and private homes alike. Icons were more religious than aesthetic in nature: especially after the end of iconoclasm, they were understood to manifest the unique \"presence\" of the figure depicted by means of a \"likeness\" to that figure maintained through carefully maintained canons of representation.\n\nThe illumination of manuscripts was another major genre of Byzantine art. The most commonly illustrated texts were religious, both scripture itself (particularly the Psalms) and devotional or theological texts (such as the \"Ladder of Divine Ascent\" of John Climacus or the homilies of Gregory of Nazianzus). Secular texts were also illuminated: important examples include the Alexander Romance and the history of John Skylitzes.\n\nThe Byzantines inherited the Early Christian distrust of monumental sculpture in religious art, and produced only reliefs, of which very few survivals are anything like life-size, in sharp contrast to the medieval art of the West, where monumental sculpture revived from Carolingian art onwards. Small ivories were also mostly in relief.\n\nThe so-called \"minor arts\" were very important in Byzantine art and luxury items, including ivories carved in relief as formal presentation Consular diptychs or caskets such as the Veroli casket, hardstone carvings, enamels, glass, jewelry, metalwork, and figured silks were produced in large quantities throughout the Byzantine era. Many of these were religious in nature, although a large number of objects with secular or non-representational decoration were produced: for example, ivories representing themes from classical mythology. Byzantine ceramics were relatively crude, as pottery was never used at the tables of the rich, who ate off Byzantine silver.\n\nByzantine art and architecture is divided into four periods by convention: the Early period, commencing with the Edict of Milan (when Christian worship was legitimized) and the transfer of the imperial seat to Constantinople, extends to AD 842, with the conclusion of Iconoclasm; the Middle, or high period, begins with the restoration of the icons in 843 and culminates in the Fall of Constantinople to the Crusaders in 1204; the Late period includes the eclectic osmosis between Western European and traditional Byzantine elements in art and architecture, and ends with the Fall of Constantinople to the Ottoman Turks in 1453. The term post-Byzantine is then used for later years, whereas \"Neo-Byzantine\" is used for art and architecture from the 19th century onwards, when the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire prompted a renewed appreciation of Byzantium by artists and historians alike.\n\nTwo events were of fundamental importance to the development of a unique, Byzantine art. First, the Edict of Milan, issued by the emperors Constantine I and Licinius in 313, allowed for public Christian worship, and led to the development of a monumental, Christian art. Second, the dedication of Constantinople in 330 created a great new artistic centre for the eastern half of the Empire, and a specifically Christian one. Other artistic traditions flourished in rival cities such as Alexandria, Antioch, and Rome, but it was not until all of these cities had fallen - the first two to the Arabs and Rome to the Goths - that Constantinople established its supremacy.\n\nConstantine devoted great effort to the decoration of Constantinople, adorning its public spaces with ancient statuary, and building a forum dominated by a porphyry column that carried a statue of himself. Major Constantinopolitan churches built under Constantine and his son, Constantius II, included the original foundations of Hagia Sophia and the Church of the Holy Apostles.\n\nThe next major building campaign in Constantinople was sponsored by Theodosius I. The most important surviving monument of this period is the obelisk and base erected by Theodosius in the Hippodrome which, with the large silver dish called the Missorium of Theodosius I, represents the classic examples of what is sometimes called the \"Theodosian Renaissance\". The earliest surviving church in Constantinople is the Basilica of St. John at the Stoudios Monastery, built in the fifth century.\n\nDue to subsequent rebuilding and destruction, relatively few Constantinopolitan monuments of this early period survive. However, the development of monumental early Byzantine art can still be traced through surviving structures in other cities. For example, important early churches are found in Rome (including Santa Sabina and Santa Maria Maggiore), and in Thessaloniki (the Rotunda and the Acheiropoietos Basilica).\n\nA number of important illuminated manuscripts, both sacred and secular, survive from this early period. Classical authors, including Virgil (represented by the Vergilius Vaticanus and the Vergilius Romanus) and Homer (represented by the Ambrosian Iliad), were illustrated with narrative paintings. Illuminated biblical manuscripts of this period survive only in fragments: for example, the Quedlinburg Itala fragment is a small portion of what must have been a lavishly illustrated copy of 1 Kings.\n\nEarly Byzantine art was also marked by the cultivation of ivory carving. Ivory diptychs, often elaborately decorated, were issued as gifts by newly appointed consuls. Silver plates were another important form of luxury art: among the most lavish from this period is the Missorium of Theodosius I. Sarcophagi continued to be produced in great numbers.\n\nSignificant changes in Byzantine art coincided with the reign of Justinian I (527–565). Justinian devoted much of his reign to reconquering Italy, North Africa and Spain. He also laid the foundations of the imperial absolutism of the Byzantine state, codifying its laws and imposing his religious views on all his subjects by law.\n\nA significant component of Justinian's project of imperial renovation was a massive building program, which was described in a book, the \"Buildings\", written by Justinian's court historian, Procopius. Justinian renovated, rebuilt, or founded anew countless churches within Constantinople, including Hagia Sophia, which had been destroyed during the Nika riots, the Church of the Holy Apostles, and the Church of Saints Sergius and Bacchus. Justinian also built a number of churches and fortifications outside of the imperial capital, including Saint Catherine's Monastery on Mount Sinai in Egypt, and the Basilica of St. John in Ephesus.\n\nSeveral major churches of this period were built in the provinces by local bishops in imitation of the new Constantinopolitan foundations. The Basilica of San Vitale in Ravenna, was built by Bishop Maximianus. The decoration of San Vitale includes important mosaics of Justinian and his empress, Theodora, although neither ever visited the church. Also of note is the Euphrasian Basilica in Poreč.\n\nArcheological discoveries in the 19th and 20th centuries unearthed a large group of Early Byzantine mosaics in the Middle East. The eastern provinces of the Eastern Roman and later the Byzantine Empires inherited a strong artistic tradition from the Late Antiquity. Christian mosaic art flourished in this area from the 4th century onwards. The tradition of making mosaics was carried on in the Umayyad era until the end of the 8th century. The most important surviving examples are the Madaba Map, the mosaics of Mount Nebo, Saint Catherine's Monastery and the Church of St Stephen in ancient Kastron Mefaa (now Umm ar-Rasas).\n\nThe first fully preserved illuminated biblical manuscripts date to the first half of the sixth century, most notably the Vienna Genesis, the Rossano Gospels, and the Sinope Gospels. The Vienna Dioscurides is a lavishly illustrated botanical treatise, presented as a gift to the Byzantine aristocrat Julia Anicia.\n\nImportant ivory sculptures of this period include the Barberini ivory, which probably depicts Justinian himself, and the Archangel ivory in the British Museum. Silver plate continued to be decorated with scenes drawn from classical mythology; for example, a preserved in the Cabinet des Médailles, Paris, depicts Hercules wrestling the Nemean lion.\n\nThe Age of Justinian was followed by a political decline, since most of Justinian's conquests were lost and the Empire faced acute crisis with the invasions of the Avars, Slavs, Persians and Arabs in the 7th century. Constantinople was also wracked by religious and political conflict.\n\nThe most significant surviving monumental projects of this period were undertaken outside of the imperial capital. The church of Hagios Demetrios in Thessaloniki was rebuilt after a fire in the mid-seventh century. The new sections include mosaics executed in a remarkably abstract style. The church of the Koimesis in Nicaea (present-day Iznik), destroyed in the early 20th century but documented through photographs, demonstrates the simultaneous survival of a more classical style of church decoration. The churches of Rome, still a Byzantine territory in this period, also include important surviving decorative programs, especially Santa Maria Antiqua, Sant'Agnese fuori le mura, and the Chapel of San Venanzio in San Giovanni in Laterano. Byzantine mosaicists probably also contributed to the decoration of the early Umayyad monuments, including the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem and the Great Mosque of Damascus.\n\nImportant works of luxury art from this period include the silver David Plates, produced during the reign of Emperor Heraclius, and depicting scenes from the life of the Hebrew king David. The most notable surviving manuscripts are Syriac gospel books, such as the so-called Syriac Bible of Paris. However, the London Canon Tables bear witness to the continuing production of lavish gospel books in Greek.\n\nThe period between Justinian and iconoclasm saw major changes in the social and religious roles of images within Byzantium. The veneration of acheiropoieta, or holy images \"not made by human hands,\" became a significant phenomenon, and in some instances these images were credited with saving cities from military assault. By the end of the seventh century, certain images of saints had come to be viewed as \"windows\" through which one could communicate with the figure depicted. Proskynesis before images is also attested in texts from the late seventh century. These developments mark the beginnings of a theology of icons.\n\nAt the same time, the debate over the proper role of art in the decoration of churches intensified. Three canons of the Quinisext Council of 692 addressed controversies in this area: prohibition of the representation of the cross on church pavements (Canon 73), prohibition of the representation of Christ as a lamb (Canon 82), and a general injunction against \"pictures, whether they are in paintings or in what way so ever, which attract the eye and corrupt the mind, and incite it to the enkindling of base pleasures\" (Canon 100).\n\nIntense debate over the role of art in worship led eventually to the period of \"Byzantine iconoclasm.\" Sporadic outbreaks of iconoclasm on the part of local bishops are attested in Asia Minor during the 720s. In 726, an underwater earthquake between the islands of Thera and Therasia was interpreted by Emperor Leo III as a sign of God's anger, and may have led Leo to remove a famous icon of Christ from the Chalke Gate outside the imperial palace. However, iconoclasm probably did not become imperial policy until the reign of Leo's son, Constantine V. The Council of Hieria, convened under Constantine in 754, proscribed the manufacture of icons of Christ. This inaugurated the Iconoclastic period, which lasted, with interruptions, until 843.\n\nWhile iconoclasm severely restricted the role of religious art, and led to the removal of some earlier apse mosaics and (possibly) the sporadic destruction of portable icons, it never constituted a total ban on the production of figural art. Ample literary sources indicate that secular art (i.e. hunting scenes and depictions of the games in the hippodrome) continued to be produced, and the few monuments that can be securely dated to the period (most notably the manuscript of Ptolemy's \"Handy Tables\" today held by the Vatican) demonstrate that metropolitan artists maintained a high quality of production.\n\nMajor churches dating to this period include Hagia Eirene in Constantinople, which was rebuilt in the 760s following its destruction by an earthquake in 740. The interior of Hagia Eirene, which is dominated by a large mosaic cross in the apse, is one of the best-preserved examples of iconoclastic church decoration. The church of Hagia Sophia in Thessaloniki was also rebuilt in the late 8th century.\n\nCertain churches built outside of the empire during this period, but decorated in a figural, \"Byzantine,\" style, may also bear witness to the continuing activities of Byzantine artists. Particularly important in this regard are the original mosaics of the Palatine Chapel in Aachen (since either destroyed or heavily restored) and the frescoes in the Church of Maria foris portas in Castelseprio.\n\nThe rulings of the Council of Hieria were reversed by a new church council in 843, celebrated to this day in the Eastern Orthodox Church as the \"Triumph of Orthodoxy.\" In 867, the installation of a new apse mosaic in Hagia Sophia depicting the Virgin and Child was celebrated by the Patriarch Photios in a famous homily as a victory over the evils of iconoclasm. Later in the same year, the Emperor Basil I, called \"the Macedonian,\" acceded to the throne; as a result the following period of Byzantine art has sometimes been called the \"Macedonian Renaissance\", although the term is doubly problematic (it was neither \"Macedonian\", nor, strictly speaking, a \"Renaissance\").\n\nIn the 9th and 10th centuries, the Empire's military situation improved, and patronage of art and architecture increased. New churches were commissioned, and the standard architectural form (the \"cross-in-square\") and decorative scheme of the Middle Byzantine church were standardised. Major surviving examples include Hosios Loukas in Boeotia, the Daphni Monastery near Athens and Nea Moni on Chios.\n\nThere was a revival of interest in the depiction of subjects from classical mythology (as on the Veroli Casket) and in the use of a \"classical\" style to depict religious, and particularly Old Testament, subjects (of which the Paris Psalter and the Joshua Roll are important examples).\n\nThe Macedonian period also saw a revival of the late antique technique of ivory carving. Many ornate ivory triptychs and diptychs survive, such as the Harbaville Triptych and a triptych at Luton Hoo, dating from the reign of Nicephorus Phocas.\n\nThe Macedonian emperors were followed by the Komnenian dynasty, beginning with the reign of Alexios I Komnenos in 1081. Byzantium had recently suffered a period of severe dislocation following the Battle of Manzikert in 1071 and the subsequent loss of Asia Minor to the Turks. However, the Komnenoi brought stability to the empire (1081–1185) and during the course of the twelfth century their energetic campaigning did much to restore the fortunes of the empire. The Komnenoi were great patrons of the arts, and with their support Byzantine artists continued to move in the direction of greater humanism and emotion, of which the Theotokos of Vladimir, the cycle of mosaics at Daphni, and the murals at Nerezi yield important examples. Ivory sculpture and other expensive mediums of art gradually gave way to frescoes and icons, which for the first time gained widespread popularity across the Empire. Apart from painted icons, there were other varieties - notably the mosaic and ceramic ones.\n\nSome of the finest Byzantine work of this period may be found outside the Empire: in the mosaics of Gelati, Kiev, Torcello, Venice, Monreale, Cefalù and Palermo. For instance, Venice's Basilica of St Mark, begun in 1063, was based on the great Church of the Holy Apostles in Constantinople, now destroyed, and is thus an echo of the age of Justinian. The acquisitive habits of the Venetians mean that the basilica is also a great museum of Byzantine artworks of all kinds (e.g., Pala d'Oro).\n\nCenturies of continuous Roman political tradition and Hellenistic civilization underwent a crisis in 1204 with the sacking of Constantinople by the Venetian and French knights of the Fourth Crusade, a disaster from which the Empire recovered in 1261 albeit in a severely weakened state. Steven Runciman, a noted 20th-century historian of the Crusades, would write in 1954: \"There was never a greater crime against humanity than the Fourth Crusade.\" The destruction by sack or subsequent neglect of the city's secular architecture in particular has left us with an imperfect understanding of Byzantine art.\n\nAlthough the Byzantines regained the city in 1261, the Empire was thereafter a small and weak state confined to the Greek peninsula and the islands of the Aegean. During their half-century of exile, however, the last great flowing of Anatolian Hellenism began. As Nicaea emerged as the center of opposition under the Laskaris emperors, it spawned a renaissance, attracting scholars, poets, and artists from across the Byzantine world. A glittering court emerged as the dispossessed intelligentsia found in the Hellenic side of their traditions a pride and identity unsullied by association with the hated \"latin\" enemy. With the recapture of the capital under the new Palaeologan Dynasty, Byzantine artists developed a new interest in landscapes and pastoral scenes, and the traditional mosaic-work (of which the Chora Church in Constantinople is the finest extant example) gradually gave way to detailed cycles of narrative frescoes (as evidenced in a large group of Mystras churches). The icons, which became a favoured medium for artistic expression, were characterized by a less austere attitude, new appreciation for purely decorative qualities of painting and meticulous attention to details, earning the popular name of the Paleologan Mannerism for the period in general.\n\nVenice came to control Byzantine Crete by 1212, and Byzantine artistic traditions continued long after the Ottoman conquest of the last Byzantine successor state in 1461. The Cretan school, as it is today known, gradually introduced Western elements into its style, and exported large numbers of icons to the West. The tradition's most famous artist was El Greco.\n\nThe splendour of Byzantine art was always in the mind of early medieval Western artists and patrons, and many of the most important movements in the period were conscious attempts to produce art fit to stand next to both classical Roman and contemporary Byzantine art. This was especially the case for the imperial Carolingian art and Ottonian art. Luxury products from the Empire were highly valued, and reached for example the royal Anglo-Saxon Sutton Hoo burial in Suffolk of the 620s, which contains several pieces of silver. Byzantine silks were especially valued and large quantities were distributed as diplomatic gifts from Constantinople. There are records of Byzantine artists working in the West, especially during the period of iconoclasm, and some works, like the frescos at Castelseprio and miniatures in the Vienna Coronation Gospels, seem to have been produced by such figures.\n\nIn particular, teams of mosaic artists were dispatched as diplomatic gestures by emperors to Italy, where they often trained locals to continue their work in a style heavily influenced by Byzantium. Venice and Norman Sicily were particular centres of Byzantine influence. The earliest surviving panel paintings in the West were in a style heavily influenced by contemporary Byzantine icons, until a distinctive Western style began to develop in Italy in the Trecento; the traditional and still influential narrative of Vasari and others has the story of Western painting begin as a breakaway by Cimabue and then Giotto from the shackles of the Byzantine tradition. In general, Byzantine artistic influence on Europe was in steep decline by the 14th century if not earlier, despite the continued importance of migrated Byzantine scholars in the Renaissance in other areas.\n\nIslamic art began with artists and craftsmen mostly trained in Byzantine styles, and though figurative content was greatly reduced, Byzantine decorative styles remained a great influence on Islamic art, and Byzantine artists continued to be imported for important works for some time, especially for mosaics.\n\nThe Byzantine era properly defined came to an end with the fall of Constantinople to the Ottoman Turks in 1453, but by this time the Byzantine cultural heritage had been widely diffused, carried by the spread of Orthodox Christianity, to Bulgaria, Serbia, Romania and, most importantly, to Russia, which became the centre of the Orthodox world following the Ottoman conquest of the Balkans. Even under Ottoman rule, Byzantine traditions in icon-painting and other small-scale arts survived, especially in the Venetian-ruled Crete and Rhodes, where a \"post-Byzantine\" style under increasing Western influence survived for a further two centuries, producing artists including El Greco whose training was in the Cretan School which was the most vigorous post-Byzantine school, exporting great numbers of icons to Europe. The willingness of the Cretan School to accept Western influence was atypical; in most of the post-Byzantine world \"as an instrument of ethnic cohesiveness, art became assertively conservative during the \"Turcocratia\"\" (period of Ottoman rule).\n\nRussian icon painting began by entirely adopting and imitating Byzantine art, as did the art of other Orthodox nations, and has remained extremely conservative in iconography, although its painting style has developed distinct characteristics, including influences from post-Renaissance Western art. All the Eastern Orthodox churches have retained highly protective of their traditions in terms of the form and content of images and, for example, modern Orthodox depictions of the Nativity of Christ vary little in content from those developed in the 6th century.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57018494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57018494", "title": "Connie Lawn", "text": "Connie Lawn\n\nConstance Ellen Lawn (May 14, 1944 – April 2, 2018) was an American independent broadcast journalist. Lawn had a brief career in politics, working for a congressman and the 1968 Eugene McCarthy presidential campaign before entering journalism.\n\nShe reported from Washington for several international clients and was appointed an honorary Officer of the New Zealand Order of Merit in 2012 in recognition of her work. At the time of her death she was the longest-serving White House correspondent.\n\nOf Russian Jewish descent, Lawn was born in New Jersey to Howard Martin Lawn (1911–2000), a businessman who was president of Parkmobile Inc., and the Equity and Capital Company, and Pearl H. Bergman (1913–1989), a chemist and homemaker. Both her parents were staunch Democrats.\n\nHer paternal grandfather, Sal Simon Lawn (1884–1969), was a Republican, who served as sergeant-at-arms for the Second Judicial Court and was a veteran of World War I.\n\nLawn was raised with her brother, Richard, and elder sister, Margo Rose (1940–1981).\n\nShe was the first and only girl to play for the Long Branch Little League in 1956. In 1962, Lawn graduated from Long Branch High School, and went on to receive a bachelor's degree in political science from Simmons College in 1966; she later moved to Washington, D.C. She was also a graduate of the L'In stitut d'Etudes Politiques in Paris.\n\nLawn briefly worked for a U.S. congressman and served as a volunteer for Eugene McCarthy's 1968 presidential campaign before becoming a reporter for a news station in Washington, D.C. She spent her career as an independent journalist, unlike many of her fellow White House correspondents, and was the founder and sole employee of Audio Video News.\n\nShe reported for several clients in the United States and around the world. Her international radio clients included networks in the UK, Canada, New Zealand, Australia, Israel, and South Africa. In the 2012 New Year Honours, she was appointed an honorary Officer of the New Zealand Order of Merit in recognition of her services to New Zealand–United States relations.\n\nThis included writing articles for the US market promoting tourism to New Zealand and its ski resorts. Lawn also received a Lifetime Achievement Award from the National Press Club of New Zealand and had a champion race-horse named after her in that country.\n\nLawn covered Robert F. Kennedy's 1968 presidential campaign, travelling with him across the United States. She conducted one of the last interviews with Kennedy before his assassination in Los Angeles on June 5 of that year. Later that year, whilst reporting on the riots and protests around the 1968 Democratic National Convention, Lawn was beaten by Chicago police officers. She covered the 1968 Soviet Invasion of Czechoslovakia from Prague, the Watergate scandal of 1972, and the attempted assassination of Ronald Reagan in 1981. At around the time of the 1982 Lebanon War, Lawn avoided an attempted abduction in Lebanon by hitting her attacker in the face with a bag and escaping to Israeli soldiers.\n\nAt the time of her death Lawn was the longest-serving White House correspondent. She attended her last press briefing on December 14, 2017, a few months before her death.\n\nLawn's first marriage was in November 1973 to Stephen Rappaport, a certified public accountant. They had two sons; their marriage later ended in a divorce. She married Dr. Charles A. Sneiderman in 2000.\n\nShe was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease in 2011, and died on April 2, 2018, aged 73, in Falls Church, Virginia. In addition to her husband, she is survived by a brother, Richard Lawn; two sons from her first marriage, Daniel and David Rappaport; and two grandchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "3478574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3478574", "title": "Critique of Hegel's Philosophy of Right", "text": "Critique of Hegel's Philosophy of Right\n\nCritique of Hegel's Philosophy of Right (\"Zur Kritik der Hegelschen Rechtsphilosophie\") is a manuscript written by German political philosopher Karl Marx in 1843 in \"Deutsch–Französische Jahrbücher\".\n\nUnpublished during his lifetime (except for the introduction in 1844), it is a manuscript in which Marx comments on fellow philosopher Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's 1820 book \"Elements of the Philosophy of Right\" paragraph by paragraph. One of Marx's major criticisms of Hegel in the document is the fact that many of his dialectical arguments begin in abstraction.\n\nThis work contains the formulations of Marx's particular alienation theory, which was informed by Ludwig Feuerbach's work. Narrative of the work develops around analysis of the relations between civil society and political society, including Marx's most famous commentaries on the function of religion in the introduction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57736137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57736137", "title": "Cruising Pavilion", "text": "Cruising Pavilion\n\nCruising Pavilion is an art exhibition that explored the places and practices of casual sex. It was an unofficial offering of the 16th Venice Biennale of Architecture and ran from 24 May - 1 July 2018.\n\nThe exhibit sought to depict places where gay men historically looked for casual sex and hookups, including \"non-conventional venues such as parking lots, parks, bathroom stalls, and dark rooms.\" The design of the exhibition included glory holes, a semblance of dark rooms, and aspects seeking to demonstrate aspects of hooking-up including narrow stairs and multiple levels. The show presented ways LGBT people \"have shaped space and the ways in which architecture has therefore in turn shaped space for them.\" Cruising as a practice and the spaces in which it happens were explored and made safe in the exhibition, all while challenging the heteronormativity commonly expressed in the Venice Biennale of Architecture itself. This is especially dramatic given the implications of online and dating apps such as Grindr.\n\nCruising Pavilion was curated by Pierre-Alexandre Mateos, Rasmus Myrup, Octave Perrault and Charles Teyssou. The curators self-funded the exhibition to confront this LGBT subculture that had not been explored through architecture. Installations included works by Alison Veit, Andreas Angelidakis, Andrés Jaque / Office for Political Innovation, Atelier Aziz Alqatami, Carlos Reyes, Diller Scofidio + Renfro, DYKE_ON, Etienne Descloux, Hannah Quinlan & Rosie Hastings, Henrik Olesen, Ian Wooldridge, S H U Í (Jon Wang & Sean Roland), Lili Reynaud Dewar, Pascal Cribier & Louis Benech, Monica Bonvicini, Studio Karhard, Studio Odile Decq, Özgür Kar, Pol Esteve & Marc Navarro, Prem Sahib, Tom Burr, Trevor Yeung.\n\n"}
{"id": "53196959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53196959", "title": "DC Kizhakemuri Foundation", "text": "DC Kizhakemuri Foundation\n\nDC Kizhakemuri Foundation (DCKF), conceived in 2001 under the Travancore Cochin Legislation of 1957, is formed as a tribute to the late D. C. Kizhakemuri, founder of DC Books. The DC Kizhakemuri Foundation organises a wide range of art, education and cultural activities.\n\nDC Kizhakemuri Foundation also conducts annual literary festival, Kerala Literature Festival (KLF), with support from various writers and other organisations. DCKF always strives to achieve the principles by which D. C. Kizhakemuri lived. \nThe foundation runs DCSMAT (DC School of Management and Technology) and DC School of Architecture and Design, which has campuses in Vagamon and Trivandrum. The institutions provides courses such as Master of Business Administration (MBA), Bachelor of Architecture (BArch), Bachelor of Commerce (B.Com), Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA), Bachelor of Fine Arts, Bachelor of Arts in Interior Design (BA Interior Design), Certified Management Accountant (CMA) and Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA).\n\nRadio DC 90.4 MHz Community FM, managed by the DCSMAT (DC School of Management and Technology), is a non-commercial community radio station located in Trivandrum, Kerala. Radio DC is the first Internet radio to be started in an Indian Business School and first private Community Radio Station in Kerala. Radio DC started its function on January 6, 2005 and approved by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India.\n\nDC Kizhakemuri Foundation gives scholarships in the form of 100 per cent tuition fee waiver for dependent children of serving defense and paramilitary personnel, ex- servicemen, Tibetan and Sri Lankan refugee students and students from Jammu and Kashmir.\n\nD. C. Kizhakemuri was a freedom fighter, visionary, thinker, writer and publisher who left an indelible mark in the modern literary history of Kerala. D. C. Kizhakemuri started his career as a teacher and was also the first columnist in Malayalam. He was awarded Padma Bhushan in 1999. He was involved in starting a library in Kanjirapally in 1942 and this passion continued throughout his lifetime. This led to the beginning of Kerala Library Movement in 1945 initiated by P. N. Panicker which successfully resulted in building over 8,000 rural libraries and reading rooms in Kerala.\n\n"}
{"id": "13620951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13620951", "title": "Deathsentences of the Polished and Structurally Weak", "text": "Deathsentences of the Polished and Structurally Weak\n\nDeathsentences of the Polished and Structurally Weak is an album and booklet by Negativland. The band describes the project as \"a 6 by 12 inch 64-page full-color book which comes with a 45-minute CD soundtrack.\"\n\n\"The CD is a meticulously-layered, ever-shifting electro-acoustic soundscape created to accompany the book. No bass lines, no melody, no dialogue, no singing, no beat - the sound of Negativland's recording studio being destroyed in a car crash.\"\n\nAll tracks by Negativland:\n\n\nThe accompanying booklet is a 6 by 12 inch 64-page full-color book packaged inside of a large die-cut automotive courtesy envelope. The band's website describes the book as \"a poignant, voyeuristic, disturbing, and occasionally funny glimpse into lives which may be very different from your own...or eerily similar.\"\n\nCompiled by band member Richard Lyons, the book comprises photos of smashed-up cars in a junkyard; next to each crumpled car is reprinted the text of a note or letter or list found in the car.\n\nIn 1997, long before the book was released, Richard Lyons described the project and read excerpts from selections of the found text for an episode of the Public Radio program \"This American Life\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "465578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=465578", "title": "Dionysia", "text": "Dionysia\n\nThe Dionysia () was a large festival in ancient Athens in honor of the god Dionysus, the central events of which were the theatrical performances of dramatic tragedies and, from 487 BC, comedies. It was the second-most important festival after the Panathenaia. The Dionysia actually consisted of two related festivals, the Rural Dionysia and the City Dionysia, which took place in different parts of the year. They were also an essential part of the Dionysian Mysteries.\n\nThe Dionysia was originally a rural festival in Eleutherae, Attica (\"\" – Διονύσια τὰ κατ' ἀγρούς), probably celebrating the cultivation of vines. It was probably a very ancient festival, perhaps not originally associated with Dionysus. This \"rural Dionysia\" was held during the winter, in the month of Poseideon (the month straddling the winter solstice, i.e., Dec.-Jan.). The central event was the \"pompe\" (πομπή), the procession, in which \"phalloi\" (φαλλοί) were carried by \"phallophoroi\" (φαλλοφόροι). Also participating in the \"pompe\" were \"kanephoroi\" (κανηφόροι – young girls carrying baskets), \"obeliaphoroi\" (ὀβελιαφόροι\n– who carried long loaves of bread), \"skaphephoroi\" (σκαφηφόροι – who carried other offerings), \"hydriaphoroi\" (ὑδριαφόροι – who carried jars of water), and \"askophoroi\" (ἀσκοφόροι – who carried jars of wine).\n\nAfter the \"pompe\" procession was completed, there were contests of dancing and singing, and choruses (led by a \"choregos\") would perform dithyrambs. Some festivals may have included dramatic performances, possibly of the tragedies and comedies that had been produced at the City Dionysia the previous year. This was more common in the larger towns, such as Piraeus and Eleusis.\n\nBecause the various towns in Attica held their festivals on different days, it was possible for spectators to visit more than one festival per season. It was also an opportunity for Athenian citizens to travel outside the city if they did not have the opportunity to do so during the rest of the year. This also allowed travelling companies of actors to perform in more than one town during the period of the festival.\n\nThe comic playwright Aristophanes parodied the Rural Dionysia in his play \"The Acharnians\".\n\nThe City Dionysia (\"Dionysia ta en Astei – Διονύσια τὰ ἐν Ἄστει\", also known as the Great Dionysia, \"Dionysia ta Megala – Διονύσια τὰ Μεγάλα\") was the urban part of the festival, possibly established during the tyranny of Pisistratus in the 6th century BC. This festival was held probably from the 10th to the 16th of the month Elaphebolion (the lunar month straddling the vernal equinox, i.e., Mar.-Apr in the solar calendar), three months after the rural Dionysia, probably to celebrate the end of winter and the harvesting of the year's crops. According to tradition, the festival was established after Eleutherae, a town on the border between Attica and Boeotia, had chosen to become part of Attica. The Eleuthereans brought a statue of Dionysus to Athens, which was initially rejected by the Athenians. Dionysus then punished the Athenians with a plague affecting the male genitalia, which was cured when the Athenians accepted the cult of Dionysus. This was recalled each year by a procession of citizens carrying \"phalloi\".\n\nThe urban festival was a relatively recent invention. This ceremony fell under the auspices of the Archons of Athens, rather than the basileus, to whom religious festivals were given when the office of archon was created in the 7th century BC.\n\nThe archon prepared for the City Dionysia as soon as he was elected, by choosing his two \"páredroi\" (πάρεδροι, \"reeves\", literally: \"by the chair\") and ten \"epimelētai\" (ἐπιμεληταί, \"curators\") to help organize the festival. On the first day of the festival, the \"pompē\" (\"pomp\", \"procession\") was held, in which citizens, metics, and representatives from Athenian colonies marched to the Theatre of Dionysus on the southern slope of the Acropolis, carrying the wooden statue of Dionysus Eleuthereus, the \"leading\" or \"eisagōgē\" (εἰσαγωγή, \"introduction\"). As with the Rural Dionysia, they also carried phalloi, made of wood or bronze, aloft on poles, and a cart pulled a much larger phallus. Basket-carriers and water and wine-carriers participated in the \"pompe\" here, as in the Rural Dionysia.\n\nDuring the height of the Athenian Empire in the mid-5th century BC, various gifts and weapons showcasing Athens' strength were carried as well. Also included in the procession were bulls to be sacrificed in the theatre. The most conspicuous members of the procession were the \"chorēgoí\" (χορηγοί, \"sponsors\", literally: \"chorus leaders\"), who were dressed in the most expensive and ornate clothing. After the \"pompē\", the \"chorēgoí\" led their choruses in the dithyrambic competitions. These were extremely competitive, and the best flute players and celebrity poets (such as Simonides and Pindar) offered their musical and lyrical services. After these competitions, the bulls were sacrificed, and a feast was held for all the citizens of Athens. A second procession, the \"kōmos\" (κῶμος), occurred afterwards, which was most likely a drunken revelry through the streets.\n\nThe next day, the playwrights announced the titles of the plays to be performed, and judges were selected by lot: the \"proagōn\" (προαγών, \"pre-contest\"). It is unknown where the \"proagōn\" originally took place, but after the mid-5th century BC, it was held in the Odeon of Pericles on the foot of Acropolis. The \"proagōn\" was also used to give praise to notable citizens, or often foreigners, who had served Athens in some beneficial way during the year. During the Peloponnesian War, orphaned children of those who had been killed in battle were also paraded in the Odeon, possibly to honour their fathers. The \"proagōn\" could be used for other announcements as well; in 406 BC the death of the playwright Euripides was announced there.\n\nFollowing the \"pompe\", the Theatre of Dionysus was purified by the sacrifice of a bull. According to tradition, the first performance of tragedy at the Dionysia was by the playwright and actor Thespis (from whom we take the word \"thespian\") in 534 BC. His award was reportedly a goat, a common symbol for Dionysus, and this \"prize\" possibly suggests the origin of the word \"tragedy\" (which means \"goat-song\").\n\nDuring the fifth century BC, five days of the festival were set aside for performance, though scholars disagree exactly what was presented each day. At least three full days were devoted to tragic plays, and each of three playwrights presented his set of three tragedies and one satyr play on the successive days. Most of the extant Greek tragedies, including those of Aeschylus, Euripides, and Sophocles, were performed at the Theatre of Dionysus. The archons, \"epimeletai\", and judges (\"agonothetai – ἀγωνοθἐται\") watched from the front row.\n\nThe other two days of the festival were likely devoted to dithyrambic contests until 487/6 BC, when comic poets were officially admitted to the agons and eligible for their own prizes. Each of five comic writers presented a single play (except during the Peloponnesian War, when only three plays were performed), though it is unknown whether they were performed continuously on one day, or over the course of the five-day festival. Until 449 BC, only dramatic works were awarded prizes in the agon, but after that time, actors also became eligible for recognition. It was considered a great honour to win the comedic prize at the City Dionysia, despite the belief that comedies were of secondary importance. The Lenaia festival, held earlier in the year, featured comedy more prominently and officially recognized comic performances with prizes in 442 BC.\n\nImpressive tragic output continued without pause through the first three quarters of the fourth century BC, and some scholars consider this time a continuation of the classical period. Though much of the work of this period is either lost or forgotten, it is considered to owe a great debt to the playwright Euripides. His plays, along with other fifth-century BC writers, were often re-staged during this period. At least one revival was presented each year at City Dionysia. It has been suggested that audiences may have preferred to see well-known plays re-staged, rather than financially support new plays of questionable quality; or alternately, that revivals represented a nostalgia for the glory of Athens from before the devastation of the Peloponnesian War. Nevertheless, plays continued to be written and performed until the 2nd century BC, when new works of both comedy and tragedy seem to have been eliminated. After that point drama continued to be produced, but prizes were awarded to wealthy producers and famous actors rather than the long-dead playwrights whose work was being performed.\n\nAnother procession and celebration was held on the final day, when the judges chose the winners of the tragedy and comedy performances. The winning playwrights were awarded a wreath of ivy.\n\n\n\nThe festival has inspired people through the present day, as a celebration of humanity (see Nietzsche's or Aristotle's take) and an exposition of culture. The University of Houston's Center for Creative works produces and performs an adaptation each spring. The purpose of the enterprise is to educate and entertain, and adaptations occasionally go beyond Greek theater for inspiration (for example, the 2013 Spring adaptation of the Iliad, titled \"Ilium\"). Collaborators flock from all over America and the productions themselves are quite popular, selling out on all ticketed venues.\n\nThe New York Classical Club, through Fordham University's Classics Department, stages a competition every April wherein groups of high school students produce unique adaptations of the same play. The competition aims to engage the themes and style of the ancient plays with renewed vigor and an accessible, thought provoking frame. Several notable schools from the area participate, including Stuyvesant and Regis. Adaptations are cut to twenty minutes, and source plays have included \"The Bacchae\" by Euripides and the entire collection of Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\".\n\nDionycia is a group based in New York City. It strives for eclectic and synthetic adaptations of all Greek and Roman stories, retaining the scope and spirit of the original Athenian festival. Dionycia recognizes the balance which the Greek plays struck between true entertainment and platforms to explore themes, concerns, and ideas. The group has written and performed plays in somewhat of a modern or postmodern style. One example, \"Daydreaming: Non-Platonic Solids in the Sky,\" portrays technology as contemporary philosophy (or Sophistry), adapting \"The Clouds\" by Aristophanes touching off from The Matrix, Exercise trends, and the spirit of those old Chinese curses, May you live in interesting times.\n\nModern followers of Hellenism (religion) celebrate Dionysia as a holiday and use a version of the Attic calendar to calculate it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35787860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35787860", "title": "E-awase", "text": "E-awase\n\nIn an \"e-awase\" contest, participants were divided into two teams, and created paintings on a predetermined topic, which were then judged by their peers, as in the older \"uta-awase\" poetry contests. It was a popular entertainment at parties and social gatherings. An \"eawase\" contest of this type appears in \"The Tale of Genji\", forming the central theme of chapter 17.\n\nAn alternative version of the picture contest was simpler, with players matching or associating pre-painted images. This was a development of an older game known as \"\" ( \"shell matching\"). Matching scenes would be painted on the inner surfaces of a number of clam shells; these would then be spread on the floor, image side down, and turned over by competitors who would attempt to match the corresponding images.\n"}
{"id": "5481250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5481250", "title": "Gabrielle d'Estrées et une de ses sœurs", "text": "Gabrielle d'Estrées et une de ses sœurs\n\nGabrielle d'Estrées et une de ses soeurs (\"Gabrielle d'Estrées and one of her sisters\") is a painting by an unknown artist circa 1594. It now hangs at the Louvre in Paris and is usually thought to be the work of a painter from the Fontainebleau School.\n\nThe painting portrays Gabrielle d'Estrées, mistress of King Henry IV of France, sitting nude in a bath, holding a ring. Her sister sits nude beside her and pinches d'Estrées' right nipple.\n\nThe nipple-pinching gesture is often interpreted as a symbolic announcement that Gabrielle is pregnant with Henry's child, César de Bourbon. According to the Louvre's website: \"The oddly affectionate way in which the sister is pinching Gabrielle d'Estrées' right breast has often been taken as symbolizing the latter's pregnancy with the illegitimate child of Henry IV. This interpretation would seem to be confirmed by the scene of the young woman sewing - perhaps preparing a layette for the coming child - in the background.\" The ring that Gabrielle holds is said to be Henry's coronation ring, which he supposedly gave to her as a token of his love shortly before she died.\n\nIn the early years of the seventeenth century, Pierre de Bourdeille, seigneur de Brantôme tells a story about a group of women who went to view the painting. He claims that the painting shows \"fair naked ladies\" together in a bath, and adds that they \"touch, and feel, and handle, and stroke, one the other, and intertwine and fondle with each other.\" Brantôme reveals that while the group of women were viewing the painting, \"one great lady\" who was a part of the group \"los[t] all restraint...before the picture, say[ing] to her lover, turning toward him [as if] maddened [by] the madness of love she beheld [in the painting]: 'Too long have we tarried here. Let us now straightway take [my] coach and go to my lodging; for...no more can I hold in the ardor that is in me. Needs must away and quench it; too sore do I burn.'\"\n\nIn the first half of the nineteenth century, \"Gabrielle d'Estrées et une de ses soeurs\" was hanging in the Prefecture of Police in Paris. Dr. Ver Heyden de Lacey states in an article from 1935 that \"Nobody knew why or how it came there; [it was] placed above a door in one of the halls to which the public had access.\" He explains that one day, a \"pusillanimous high official\" noticed the painting and \"conceived [of] the idea to screen the picture...from the curious public gaze, by drawing a green curtain in front of it.\" This action suggests that the official considered the painting to be erotic or even obscene, but instead of removing it, he had it veiled, and he thus visibly marked the image as an open secret, or as something which should not be seen. At some point after that, Dr. Ver Heyden de Lacey claims that \"Somebody had the happy inspiration to expose [the veiled image] to the artistic and art-trained eyes of those called upon to take part in [a] civic function [at the police station]...In preparation [for this] special function...a thorough cleaning of the picture itself was ordered...[But] Upon drawing the curtain, [they found only] an empty picture frame.\"\n\nIn the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, the \"Gabrielle d'Estrées\" painting is regularly understood to represent female homosexuality. There is an entry for it in the \"Encyclopedia of Lesbian Gay Histories and Cultures\" and it appears on websites about lesbian history like Sappho.com. Even outside of the LGBT community, the painting is frequently understood as a representation of lesbianism. In 1991, it appeared on the cover of the French magazine \"L’Événement du jeudi\" to illustrate a story on lesbian chic. In 2002, the Green Party in Germany created a poster to announce their support of same-sex marriage and it featured two female actors reenacting the \"Gabrielle\" portrait.\n\nThis painting is peculiarly biased toward left-handedness. Gabrielle's sister is pinching her right nipple with her left hand, d'Estrées is holding the ring with her left hand, and the seamstress in the background is sewing with her left hand. Additionally, the painting hanging in the background is of the lower body of a naked person, but contrary to rumor, he is not holding his penis with his left hand; a piece of red fabric is draped over his genitals.\n\nA sprightly British drama, \"Two Nudes Bathing\", speculates upon the origins of the anonymous painting.\n\nAn anachronistic visual reference to the painting appears in \"The Tudors\", Season 1, Episode 6 \"True Love\".\n\n"}
{"id": "51316326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51316326", "title": "Golden Rhinoceros of Mapungubwe", "text": "Golden Rhinoceros of Mapungubwe\n\nThe golden rhinoceros of Mapungubwe is an medieval artifact from the medieval Kingdom of Mapungubwe, which is located in modern-day South Africa. It was found on a royal grave on Mapungubwe Hill in 1932 by archaeologists from the University of Pretoria. The artifact is described as being \"small enough to stand in the palm of your hand.\" \n\nIt is currently on loan to the British Museum as part of their exhibition that celebrates the art of South Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "36350939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36350939", "title": "Homosexuality: A Philosophical Inquiry", "text": "Homosexuality: A Philosophical Inquiry\n\nHomosexuality: A Philosophical Inquiry is a 1988 book by the philosopher Michael Ruse, in which the author discusses different theories of homosexuality, evaluates the moral status of homosexual behavior, and argues in favor of gay rights.\n\nThe book received both positive and negative reviews. Some reviewers praised it for Ruse's comprehensive treatment of his subject, careful discussion of theories about homosexuality, and use of philosophy to support gay rights. However, Ruse's treatment of psychoanalysis and sociobiology, and his use of historical evidence to discuss homosexuality in past societies, were criticized, and commentators noted that some of Ruse's comments about homosexuality could be considered insensitive. Some reviewers suggested that Ruse's arguments and conclusions about homosexuality were influenced by his personal reaction to the AIDS epidemic.\n\nRuse aims to provide a detailed philosophical analysis of homosexuality in order to \"uncover the foundational suppositions which lead people to such different conclusions\" about the subject, arguing that the spread of AIDS makes rethinking sexuality in general and homosexuality in particular an urgent task. He defines a homosexual as a \"person whose erotic yearnings and fantasies are directed toward his/her own sex and whose activities are influenced by such yearnings and fantasies\". Ruse defends attempts to explain homosexuality against the objection that they might harm gay people, arguing that while they could have harmful consequences they also have the potential to do good. He rejects social constructionist views of sexual orientation, and defends the value of hormonal studies, summarizing the research and arguing that the studies have no necessary bias against homosexuality. Ruse discusses sociobiological theories, concluding that despite objections to them, they are scientific and potentially helpful in understanding homosexuality.\n\nRuse defends Sigmund Freud, the founder of psychoanalysis, against the charge that his theories are untestable. He finds the philosopher Adolf Grünbaum's arguments, made in \"The Foundations of Psychoanalysis\" (1984), against the philosopher Karl Popper's view that psychoanalytic theories are pseudo-scientific because they can never be falsified to be decisive. He is also unconvinced by the philosopher Roger Scruton's criticism of Freud in \"Sexual Desire\" (1986). Whereas Scruton argues that genuine science does not involve metaphor, Ruse finds that \"metaphor runs rampant through science from physics to sociology\".\n\nDiscussing ethical issues, Ruse distinguishes between involuntary inclination and willful behavior, arguing that while a homosexual orientation is morally blameless, this is not necessarily true of homosexual behavior. He criticizes ethical arguments that appeal to scientific claims about the naturalness or unnaturalness of homosexuality, for example the views of the Greek philosopher Plato, according to whom homosexual behavior did not occur in animals. Ruse finds this claim to be mistaken.\n\n\"Homosexuality: A Philosophical Inquiry\" was first published in hardcover 1988 by Basil Blackwell. The book was republished in paperback in 1990. \n\n\"Homosexuality: A Philosophical Inquiry\" received positive reviews from James Michael MacLeod in \"Library Journal\" and the biologist Douglas J. Futuyma in the \"Los Angeles Times\".\n\nMacLeod credited Ruse with providing a detailed survey of current research in medicine and the behavioral sciences relevant to homosexuality and \"a comprehensive analysis of issues relating to homosexuality in both men and women.\" He concluded that the book was a welcome addition to the literature on homosexuality. Futuyma wrote that Ruse helped to provide the kind of objective discussion of sexual orientation that had previously been lacking. He credited Ruse with carefully discussing various theories of homosexuality, concluding that Ruse rightly took a more skeptical view of evolutionary explanations of homosexuality in the book than he had in his previous writings. He expressed agreement with Ruse's skepticism about hormonal explanations of homosexuality and the psychoanalytic theories, and also with Ruse's view that a person's sexual orientation is not a choice, that homosexuality is not unnatural, and that both neo-Kantian and utilitarian ethical theories must support gay rights. However, he noted that while Ruse's book was easy to read and avoided philosophical jargon, it was not always graceful in style, and suggested that gay readers might find some of Ruse's comments about homosexuality insensitive.\n\n\"Homosexuality: A Philosophical Inquiry\" received a positive review from Christopher Badcock in the \"British Journal of Sociology\", a mixed review from Paul Bloom and the philosopher Edward Stein in \"The American Scholar\", and negative reviews from Jim Sait in \"Social Alternatives\" and the cultural historian George Rousseau in the \"Journal of the History of the Behavioral Sciences\". The book was also reviewed by Ken Plummer in \"Theory, Culture & Society\". Ruse discussed his work in the \"British Journal for the Philosophy of Science\".\n\nBadcock called the book \"excellent\" and praised Ruse's comprehensiveness. Bloom and Stein wrote that Ruse's ethical arguments were interesting and that his discussion of the various theories of homosexuality was clear, intelligent, and innovative. However, they criticized Ruse for failing to acknowledge that it is a mistake to focus only on the origins of homosexuality, and relied upon an implicit understanding of homosexuality rather than try to evaluate various views of the topic. They criticized Ruse's discussion of social constructionism, writing that Ruse considered only the most extreme form and quickly dismissed it, and found Ruse to be guilty of inconsistency, noting that while Ruse at one stage suggested that there \"is no objective criterion for being gay\" he often disregarded that view. They found Ruse's discussion of bisexuality unsatisfactory and inaccurate. They also criticized Ruse's treatment of sociobiology, arguing that he failed to recognized the shortcomings of sociobiological theories, including their failure to explain bisexuality. They criticized the amount of space Ruse devoted to discussing psychoanalytic theories, arguing that their lack of empirical support meant that the attention was undeserved. They concluded that Ruse's work is far from a definitive discussion of its subject and is \"best viewed as a first attempt at addressing a range of deep and complex issues.\"\n\nSait credited Ruse with outlining the limitations of psychoanalytic, hormonal, and sociobiological theories of homosexuality, but accused Ruse of having \"personal biases towards\" psychoanalytic and sociobiological theories. He criticized Ruse for relying uncritically on \"Greek Homosexuality\" (1978) and other publications by the classicist Kenneth Dover in his discussion of Greek homosexuality. He found Ruse's discussion of the question of whether homosexuality is a sickness or a disease confusing, and suggested that Ruse's attempt at detached philosophical analysis was compromised by Ruse's personal reaction to the AIDS epidemic. He also suggested that Ruse's \"explicit and implicit\" definitions of homosexuality weakened his discussion of the social aspects of homosexuality. He criticized Ruse for using a \"primarily sexual\" definition of homosexuality that ignored emotional and other ties between homosexuals, and for writing about homosexuality as though all homosexuals were men, ignoring lesbians and their experience. Nevertheless, he considered \"Homosexuality: A Philosophical Inquiry\" useful for combating arguments and theories used to stigmatize homosexuals and applauded Ruse's philosophical support for gay rights.\n\nRousseau wrote that, like several other recent works about homosexuality, \"Homosexuality: A Philosophical Inquiry\" was \"more socially rather than scientifically grounded\" and that Ruse was not \"willing (or equipped) to address the question about etiology.\" He also wrote that too many of Ruse's positions are \"taken with AIDS peering at the reader in the face\", and questioned both the extent of Ruse's compassion for homosexuals and the ability of philosophy to help homosexuals. He maintained that Ruse's conclusions \"neither advance the theoretical debate about homosexuality nor propose any practical solutions to the homosexual crisis.\" While granting that the work \"abounds with information\" and had \"noble\" objectives, he argued that Ruse had an \"impoverished\" view of homosexuality that frustrated those objectives, and that Ruse neglected the role love and shame play in the lives of homosexuals. He wrote that while Ruse challenged the idea that homosexuality is a mental illness, he did so \"without acknowledging that these views had already been debated in the 1950s\". He suggested that Ruse made comments about homosexuality that could be interpreted as expressing the desire to eliminate it, describing this as \"outrageous\". He agreed with Ruse's conclusion that there should be no discrimination in favor of homosexuals, but nevertheless found Ruse's arguments for that conclusion offensive.\n\nRuse discussed his reasons for writing the book, attributing his interest in homosexuality to having grown up in the United Kingdom at a time when homosexuality was illegal, to his engagements in debate over sociobiology since the 1970s, and to the fact that \"no one else seemed to be writing on the subject\". He wrote that he had mixed feelings about the process of writing the book, and that it had been rendered in \"many respects ... dated and redundant\" by the philosopher Timothy F. Murphy's \"Gay Science\" (1997).\n\nThe classicist David M. Halperin criticized Ruse for not mentioning the research of Ron Langevin, which in Halperin's view discredited the hypothesis that homosexuality is caused by hormone levels, in \"One Hundred Years of Homosexuality\" (1990). The economist Richard Posner praised \"Homosexuality: A Philosophical Inquiry\" for Ruse's care in evaluating rival theories of homosexuality in \"Sex and Reason\" (1992).\n\nStein criticized Ruse for his definition of a \"homosexual\" in \"The Mismeasure of Desire\" (1999). He argued that it is vague and does not explain whether someone who only rarely wants to have sex with a person of the same sex is \"homosexual\", or whether wanting to have sex with a person of the opposite sex would disqualify a person from being \"homosexual\". He argued that Ruse's definition is wide enough to be a candidate for playing a role in explanation in the sciences and the social sciences, but that its wideness does not prove that sexual orientations are non-arbitrary groups (\"natural kinds\"). He rejected Ruse's suggestion that defining sexual orientation in terms of sexual feelings rather than sexual behavior shows that social constructionism is false. He observed that while Ruse refers to the work of the historian John Boswell to support his case that there were people in periods from that Ancient Greece to that of the Renaissance who were recognized as having a homosexual orientation, such evidence can be interpreted differently. He rejected Ruse's defense of sexual orientation research, arguing that the ethical implications of a research program must be considered in deciding whether the program is worth pursuing.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36374140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36374140", "title": "Immaculate Conception (Zurbarán)", "text": "Immaculate Conception (Zurbarán)\n\nThe Immaculate Conception is a painting by Zurbarán conserved at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.\n\nThe Immaculate Conception represents Mary as the only mortal being free of original sin. This is a long-established Catholic doctrinal argument, frequently depicted in the painting of the Spanish Golden Age. Mary appears standing on five cherubim occupying a half moon. She is wearing a necklace with the anagram A(ve) M(aria), while a host of stars and angels emerge from the clouds in the halo around her head. On either side are angels with lilies, roses (attributes of purity) and tablets with inscriptions from the 'Song of Songs'. At the sides are two collegiates and symbols alluding to Mary: the Unblemished Mirror, Jacob's Ladder, Gates of Heaven and Morning Star. Zurbarán painted several versions of this theme, but this one is unquestionably the best.\n\n"}
{"id": "47372671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47372671", "title": "Jill Smythies Award", "text": "Jill Smythies Award\n\nThe Jill Smythies Award of the Linnean Society of London was established in 1986 and is awarded annually to a botanical artist.\n\nThe award was established by Bertram Smythies, in honour of his wife, Florence Mary Smythies (\"Jill\"), whose career as a botanical artist was cut short by an accident to her right hand.\n\n"}
{"id": "8543465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8543465", "title": "Joann Alfano", "text": "Joann Alfano\n\nJoAnn Alfano is an American television producer.\n\nShe replaced Suzanne Daniels as Executive Vice President, Entertainment, Lifetime Networks in late 2008.\n\nPrior to starting TV Tray Entertainment in June 2007, Alfano was President of Broadway Video Television, where she developed and executive produced NBC's \"30 Rock\" and the ABC series \"Sons and Daughters\". Alfano rose through the ranks at NBC, from New York-based publicist to become Senior Vice President of Drama Development, and then Senior Vice President of Comedy Development. She also was Vice President of Prime Time Series for NBC Studios. Before that, Alfano was Director of Current Comedy for NBC Entertainment. She had previously been Director, NBC Media Relations and Primetime Series.\n\nBefore joining Lifetime, Alfano was president of her production company, TV Tray Entertainment, which had a first look deal at NBC Universal Media Studios.\n\nAlfano won a 2007 Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series.\n"}
{"id": "17630431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17630431", "title": "Kid 'n Play (TV series)", "text": "Kid 'n Play (TV series)\n\nKid 'n Play is an animated cartoon series based on the real life hip-hop duo, Kid 'n Play. It ran for one season on NBC from September 8, 1990 to December 8, 1990. On the show, Kid 'n Play were portrayed as teenagers, but their recording careers remained the same as in real life, as did their character traits. Production was by Marvel Productions and Saban Entertainment.\n\nThe real Kid 'n Play appeared in live-action wraparounds of the cartoons, but voice actors took over for the animated versions of the duo. The show stressed positive role models, teaching children how to get along with each other and stay out of trouble. Akin to the \"House Party\" films, Play was the less responsible member of the duo, cooking up get rich quick schemes, while Kid, the more responsible member, would usually be made to clean up messes. Oftentimes the issue would be resolved by the characters' girlfriends, or sometimes by an elderly jazz musician who wore a blue beret and was aptly named \"Old Blue\". The lessons ranged from serious to lighter fare. One of the \"less serious\" episodes dealt with Kid's father not understanding hip-hop and Kid not having the means to put it in a positive light, and Old Blue offers to help to sending Kid on a trip back in time to the era of jazz and speakeasies to help better understand its roots.\n\nIn 1992, Marvel Comics published a comic book based on the cartoon. The comic book ran for nine issues.\n\nThe series was created by John Semper Jr. and Cynthia Friedlob who also served as the show-runners and head-writers. They would later go on to write Kid 'N Play's first live action feature film for a major studio, \"CLASS ACT\" for Warner Bros. Semper would later produce and be the head-writer for \"Spider-Man: The Animated Series,\" for Marvel Films Animation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39955263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39955263", "title": "La Bonne", "text": "La Bonne\n\nThe film takes place in Vicenza in 1956. Anna, a beautiful lawyer's wife, feels abandoned by her husband and grows closer to their maid, Angela. The maid convinces Anna to try increasingly daring erotic games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43096597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43096597", "title": "La Caricature (1880–1904)", "text": "La Caricature (1880–1904)\n\nLa Caricature was a satirical journal that was published in Paris, France, between 1880 and 1904. It had a lively and colorful layout, and made full use of the newly invented photogravure technology. Its focus was on social satire rather than political commentary. \"La Caricature\" covered the theater, news events, gossip and topical subjects such as the vote for women or seaside vacations. The founding editor, Albert Robida, left in 1892. The journal began to decline in quality, went through various changes of ownership and management, and eventually was merged with a rival tabloid.\n\n\"La Caricature\" was published weekly between 1880 and 1904, first by Librairie illustrée, then by Eugene Kolb and finally by Fayard frères. The founding editor was Albert Robida (1848–1926). The new journal had a lively and colorful format, exploiting the recently invented photogravure technique. The title recalled the earlier \"La Caricature\" (1830–1843) founded by Charles Philipon, which portrayed Louis Philippe as a pear, and which included works by the great Honoré Daumier. The new \"Caricature\" was less politically engaged than its predecessor, focusing more on caricature of the manners of the age.\n\nThe first issue appeared on 3 January 1880, heralding a break from the oppressive morality of the regime that had followed the fall of the Paris Commune in 1871. However, \"La Caricature\" appeared before the act of 29 July 1881 gave much greater freedom to the press. The masthead of \"La Caricature\" was classic in design, at first showing Albert Robida as editor, and \"La Librairie illustrée\" as publisher. The offices were 7 rue du Croissant, the same premises as \"La Librairie illustrée\", in the heart of the press district of Paris. The journal appeared every Friday.\n\nWith eight pages of drawings, and little text, \"La Caricature\" gave stories in pictures without captions, silhouettes, portraits and large compositions, including all forms of caricature at the time. It covered news, literature, theater and gossip, but generally avoided political comment. It often made fun of Sarah Bernhardt, Alexandre Dumas and Émile Zola. In May 1880 \"La Caricature\" published a cartoon of Sarah Bernhardt's planned trip to the USA, making fun of her thin figure, her grandiose opinion of her importance, and the public view of her epic battles with adversity. The paper caricatured the Salon exhibitions, fashion and horse racing. It was common for an issue to be devoted to one topic such as women's emancipation, sea bathing or a visit to a château.\n\nThe 25 October 1883 issue was devoted to \"La Guerre au vingtième siècle\" (\"War in the 20th Century\"). It shows a war fought in 1975 between Australia and Mozambique using every possible weapon. Robida borrowed ideas from Jules Verne. Unlike Verne he was unconcerned with whether his machines could really work, purely interested in the image. In other futuristic illustrated stories Robida depicted many grotesque types of mechanical transport, including submarine pleasure boats, as well as television news, video phones, excursions to the moon and synthetic food. Other whimsical concepts of his prosperous world of the future included air taxis, translatlantic balloons, aerial hotels, underwater sports and a women-only stock exchange.\nRobida was ambivalent about modernization. His drawing of \"The Embellishment of Paris by the Metro\" appeared on the 19 June 1886 cover. Robida depicts Paris as a woman, her crown adorned with the windmills that had once stood on the hills of the city, violated by a network of railways that run over or through famous structures of the city.\nRobida used color boldly, in contrast to other journals of the time. \"La Caricature\" gave good coverage to theater in the early years, typically focusing on one production. This was not advertising. The journal did not produce posters for the shows, but gave pictures that captured the mood of the shows in exaggerated form, with critical comment written in a satirical vein. The large theatrical pictures drawn by Robida mainly appeared in the first three years. They were revived in 1897 when the journal was under new management, now drawn by Maurice Radiguet.\n\nThe work of young artists such as Ferdinand Bac, Caran d'Ache and Louis Morin was published in \"La Caricature\". The cartoonist Draner (Jules Jean Georges Renard; 1833–1926) contributed illustrations, including most of the military items and also caricatures of sportsmen, domestic servants in large houses and people wearing the ridiculous fashions of past periods, such as the days of Louis Philippe. The cartoonist Job (Jacques Onfroy de Bréville; 1858–1931) also contributed cartoons, depicting horses and small scenes of gallantry.\n\nOn 2 July 1892, with issue 653, Robida retired after twelve years as editor and Eugene Kolb became the head of \"La Caricature\". With Robida's departure the journal lost some of its graphic appeal, and became more cliched. On 5 September 1896 Kolb's name was dropped from the masthead of issue 871, which now simply said \"weekly journal\". In January 1897 the journal was sold to the \"Librairie Fayard\", and \"Fayard frères\" began to appear on the masthead.\n\nOn 23 January 1893 the office moved to 78 boulevard St Michel, in the premises of the \"Librairie Dentu\". B. Roussat became the manager. Soon after \"La Caricature\" abandoned photogravure for halftone etching. There were repeated changes of manager. The paper began to adopt a more strident and populist tone. On 31 December 1904 the last issue of \"La Caricature\" announced its merger with \"L’Indiscret\", a black and white tabloid that gave more images than \"La Caracature\" but lower quality.\n\nCitations\nSources\n"}
{"id": "37798595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37798595", "title": "Lessons on the Analytic of the Sublime", "text": "Lessons on the Analytic of the Sublime\n\nLessons on the Analytic of the Sublime () is a 1991 book by the philosopher Jean-François Lyotard.\n\n\"Lessons on the Analytic of the Sublime\" has been seen as Lyotard's most important work since \"The Differend\" (1983).\n\n"}
{"id": "28945384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28945384", "title": "Light Art Biennale Austria 2010", "text": "Light Art Biennale Austria 2010\n\nThe Light Art Biennale Austria 2010 (in German: Biennale für Lichtkunst Austria 2010) is the first biennale for light art in Austria. About 60 artists from 21 countries and 4 continents participate.\n\nThe \"Biennale für Lichtkunst Austria 2010\" is a non-commercial biennale of light art-projects and the first biennale of light art that happened in Austria. The biennale 2010 has the slogan \"private light in public spaces\" and runs in several Austrian cities in the autumn of 2010. It started on September 1 in Linz, at nearly the same time as the Ars Electronica festival which started on September 2. The organisation is done by Gallery Artpark Linz, consultant is Peet Thomsen (USA/Copenhagen/Linz). The selection of the artists was curated. Members of the jury were artists and curators, one of them Laura Plana Gracia from Spain.\n\nThis first Biennale for Light Art in Austria wants to generate a cut surface between society and art. The spontaneous conjunction with art in public spaces leans on the art concept of Joseph Beuys from 1965 \"How to define the paintings to the dead rabbit\" in Düsseldorf. A dialogue should arise between art and the public. The concept was made by the two founders of the Light Art Biennale, Manfred Kielnhofer and Martina Schettina.\n\nThe Biennale für Lichtkunst Austria 2010 is supported by the cultural boards of Upper Austria, Lower Austria and the City Linz as well as companies and private sponsors. \n\nThe opnening in September took place in Linz\n\n\nThe Biennale is inspired by a similar Biennale, which was held in the Ruhrgebiet. The Austrian's theme for the first edition of the Biennale will be \"Private Light in Public Spaces\". The name a gentle teasing of the German Light Art Biennale \"Open Light in Private Spaces\". The \"Light Art Biennale Austria 2010\" has been invited to the contemporary art ruhr (C.A.R.) 2010 in Essen, Welterbe Zollverein as an official part of the European Capital of Culture-program Ruhr.2010.\n\nThe Light art Biennale Austria will be held every two years in various cities in Austria.\n\n"}
{"id": "1238260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1238260", "title": "List of GURPS books", "text": "List of GURPS books\n\nThis is a listing of the publications from Steve Jackson Games and other licensed publishers for the GURPS role-playing game.\n\nThese are the books necessary to play, with the core rules used in all settings (\"GURPS Basic Set: Characters\" and \"Campaigns\"), plus basic accessories.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere is a total of 28 free GURPS products given out as no-cost PDFs, in addition to the three above and one below, this includes:\n\nThese books detail general rules not used in all possible campaign, such as rules for magic spells, for superpowers and for martial arts.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese books describe how to design and play campaigns in a particular genre, such as fantasy, science fiction or detective fiction.\n\nThese supplements details how to design and play campaigns set in particular fictional settings, either specific to GURPS (such as \"Banestorm\", a fantasy setting, or \"Infinite Worlds\", about exploration of parallel universes) or independent of it (such as the \"Star Trek\" universe).\n\nGurps Locations is a series of 5 sourcebooks:\n\nThese handbooks describe the data, in terms of GURPS, of specific objects, gadgets and vehicles, and how to construct new ones.\n\nThese handbooks give a streamlined method for spacecraft construction and combat. Volumes 1 through 8 written by David Pulver.\n\n\nThese handbooks describe monsters and creatures.\n\nThese handbooks describe how to reduce GURPS to the essential abilities and rules you need to play in a typical Medieval Fantasy \"Dungeon Crawl\" type of game.\n\nThese supplements describe how to reduce GURPS to the essential abilities and rules you need to play in games inspired by action movies of the 1980s and beyond.\n\nThese supplements add a small set of new abilities for characters.\n\nThese handbooks describe how to reduce GURPS to the essential abilities and rules you need to play in a typical modern \"Monster Hunting\" type of game. Example settings include \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\", or Charles Stross's \"The Laundry\" series.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following fictional settings are adaptations of preceding fictional works originating in novels:\n\n\n\n\nA set of books designed to allow game play in Traveller's Third Imperium science-fiction setting using the \"GURPS\" rule system. Traveller was originally published in 1977 by Game Designers' Workshop. Steve Jackson Games also publishes online \"Journal of the Travellers' Aid Society\", the official magazine of \"Traveller\".\n\n\n\n\nSeveral books were produced in Japanese, mostly by the Japanese company Group SNE, and published by various publishers.\n\nThe Korean publisher Dayspring Games () published the Korean translation of \"GURPS\" and at least an original supplement, \"GURPS Sylfiena\", a fantasy setting.\n\n"}
{"id": "200884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200884", "title": "List of banned films", "text": "List of banned films\n\nThis is a list of banned films.\n\nFor nearly the entire history of film production, certain films have been banned by film censorship or review organizations for political or moral reasons or for controversial content, such as racism. Censorship standards vary widely by country, and can vary within an individual country over time due to political or moral change.\n\nMany countries have government-appointed or private commissions to censor and rate productions for film and television exhibition. While it is common for films to be edited to fall into certain rating classifications, this list includes only films that have been explicitly prohibited from public screening.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40950195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40950195", "title": "List of destroyed heritage", "text": "List of destroyed heritage\n\nThis is a list of cultural-heritage sites that have been damaged or destroyed accidentally, deliberately, or by a natural disaster, sorted by country.\n\nCultural heritage can be subdivided into two main types—tangible and intangible heritage. The former includes built heritage such as religious buildings, museums, monuments, and archaeological sites, as well as movable heritage such as works of art and manuscripts. Intangible cultural heritage includes customs, music, fashion and other traditions within a particular culture. This article mainly deals with the destruction of built heritage; the destruction of movable collectable heritage is dealt with in art destruction, whilst the destruction of movable industrial heritage remains almost totally ignored.\n\nDeliberate and systematic destruction of cultural heritage, such as that carried out by ISIL, is regarded as a form of cultural genocide.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNumerous Albanian cultural sites in Kosovo were destroyed during the Kosovo conflict (1998–1999) which constituted a war crime violating the Hague and Geneva Conventions. In all 225 out of 600 mosques in Kosovo were damaged, vandalised, or destroyed alongside other Islamic architecture and Islamic libraries and archives with records spanning 500 years. Additionally 500 Albanian owned \"kulla\" dwellings (traditional stone tower houses) and three out of four well preserved Ottoman period urban centres located in Kosovo cities were badly damaged resulting in great loss of traditional architecture. Kosovo's public libraries, in particular 65 out of 183 were completely destroyed with a loss of 900,588 volumes. During the war, Islamic architectural heritage posed for Yugoslav Serb paramilitary and military forces as Albanian patrimony with destruction of non-Serbian architectural heritage being a methodical and planned component of ethnic cleansing in Kosovo.\n\nNATO bombing in March–June 1999 resulted in some accidental damages to churches and a mosque. Revenge attacks against Serbian religious sites commenced following the conflict and the return of hundreds of thousands of Kosovo Albanian refugees to their homes. According to the International Center for Transitional Justice, several Serbian cultural objects, including 155 Serbian Orthodox churches and monasteries, were destroyed by Kosovo Albanians between June 1999 and March 2004.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe resulting carnage and the aftermath of the Battle of Manila (followed by the Manila massacre) is responsible for the near total obliteration and evisceration of irreplaceable cultural, and historical heritage & treasures of the \"Pearl of the Orient\" (an international melting pot and a living monument of the meeting and confluence of Spanish, American and Asian cultures). Countless government buildings, universities and colleges, convents, monasteries and churches, and their accompanying treasures, all dating back to the 16th century and in a variety of style, were wiped out and ruined by both Japanese and inadvertently the American forces battling for the control of the city.\n\nThe most devastating damage happened at the ancient walled city of Intramuros, as a result of the assault from 23–26 February, until its total liberation on 4 March, Intramuros was a shell of its former glory (except the church of San Agustin, the sole survivor of the carnage). Outside the walls, large areas of the city had been levelled.\n\nAfter the Liberation, as part of rebuilding Manila, most of the buildings damaged during the war were either demolished in the name of \"Progress\", or rebuilt in a manner that bears no resemblance to the original; replacing European architectural styles during the Spanish and early American era with modern American- and imitation-style architecture. Only a few surviving old buildings remain intact, though even those that remain are continuously endangered to deterioration & neglect, political mismanagement brought on by graft and corruption, rapid urbanization & economic redevelopment, low public awareness & ignorance.\n\nSeveral historic buildings were damaged or destroyed during the 2013 Bohol earthquake, including the Loboc Church, the Loon Church, the Maribojoc Church and the Baclayon Church.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1610099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1610099", "title": "Louis-Ernest Barrias", "text": "Louis-Ernest Barrias\n\nLouis-Ernest Barrias (13 April 1841 – 4 February 1905) was a French sculptor of the Beaux-Arts school. In 1865 Barrias won the Prix de Rome for study at the French Academy in Rome.\n\nBarrias was involved in the decoration of the Paris Opéra and the Hôtel de la Païva in the Champs-Élysées. His work was mostly in marble, in a Romantic realist style indebted to Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux. \n\nHe was born in Paris into a family of artists. His father was a porcelain-painter, and his older brother Félix-Joseph Barrias a well-known painter. Louis-Ernest also started out as a painter, studying under Léon Cogniet, but later took up sculpture with Pierre-Jules Cavelier as teacher. In 1858 he was admitted to the École nationale supérieure des Beaux-Arts in Paris, where his teacher was François Jouffroy. In 1865 Barrias won the Prix de Rome for study at the French Academy in Rome. Barrias was involved in the decoration of the Paris Opéra and the Hôtel de la Païva in the Champs-Élysées. His work was mostly in marble, in a Romantic realist style indebted to Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux. \n\nIn 1878 he was made a knight of the Legion of Honour, an officer in 1881, and a commander in 1900. Barrias replaced Dumont at the Institut de France in 1884 then succeeded Cavelier as professor at the École des Beaux-Arts. In 1900-03 he served on the Council for the National Museums. Among his students were Josep Clarà, Charles Despiau, Henri Bouchard, and Victor Ségoffin.\n\nBarrias was very influenced by the Art Nouveau style, which was prominent in art during the fin-de-siècle in France. The voluptuous women figures used in many of his sculptures are a product of this time and style. Nature and the erotic was, also, used often in this type style of art, which is seen in many of Barrias's works including, \"Nature Unveiling Herself Before Science\". This piece was made in 1899, when this style was popular. Another sculpture by Barrias is \"Portrait of the Young Mozart\". He also often used literary references in his sculptures (Fusco, Peter, and H. W, Janson, eds. \"The Romantics to Rodin\". New York: Los Angeles County Museum of Art, 1980. Print).\n\nBarrias died in Paris on 4 February 1905.\n\nAt Père Lachaise Cemetery:\nAt the Jardin des Tuileries:\nAt La Défense:\nAt the Musée d'Orsay:\nAt Dreux:\nIn private collections:\n\n"}
{"id": "5353344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5353344", "title": "Matrubhoomi", "text": "Matrubhoomi\n\nMatrubhoomi: A Nation Without Women (Hindi: मातृभूमि, translation: Motherland) is a 2003 Indian film written and directed by Manish Jha. The film examines the impact of female foeticide and female infanticide on the gender balance and consequently the stability and attitudes of society. Its storyline bears some resemblance to real-life instances of gender imbalance and economics resulting in fraternal polyandry and bride buying in some parts of India. It depicts a future dystopia in an Indian village populated exclusively by males due to female infanticide over the years.\n\n\"Matrubhoomi\" received widespread critical acclaim and was shown at festivals through 2003, including the 2003 Venice Film Festival, where it was presented in the Critic's Week (Parallel Sections) and later awarded the FIPRESCI Award \"For important theme on women's issues and female infanticide handled with sensitivity by a first-time director\".\n\nThe story begins in a rural village in Bihar, with the delivery of a baby girl to a village couple. Her disappointed father, who was hoping for a boy, drowns her in vat of milk in a public ceremony. Many years later somewhere around 2050 A.D., this unchecked trend leads to the village being populated solely by males. The now uncouth and aggressive young men of the village are desperate for wives and release their frustration through group screenings of imported pornographic films, cross-dressed dance performances, and even bestiality. They are shown to be willing to go to the lengths of human trafficking and courtship-driven emigration to procure spouses for themselves.\n\nThe wealthy father Ramcharan (Sudhir Pandey) of five boys finds out about a single young woman, named Kalki (Tulip Joshi), living some distance from the village and buys her from her father. She is then married to all the five sons. Each night of the week, she is forced to sleep with one of the sons, and even the father gets his weekly night with her. Of all the men in the boorish lot, only the youngest son Sooraj (Sushant Singh) treats her with respect and tenderness.\n\nWhen the youngest son is killed by his jealous brothers, Kalki asks her father's help for escape. Blinded by the money given to him as dowry, he turns her down. One of the sympathetic domestic servant boys of house helps her to escape but attempt goes lethally awry. The servant boy is brutally murdered while Kalki gets captured by the villagers. The villagers chain her to a post in a cow shed as she becomes a pawn of revenge in an inter-community conflict. The lower caste community of village hold her responsible for the death of the servant-boy, decide to avenge the murder by gang rapeing her mercilessly night after night. Kalki is then sent back to her husbands.\n\nKalki becomes pregnant and everybody rejoices. A new servant boy is appointed for her care. As the news spreads, every man in the village claims for the paternity of unborn child which causes violence to break out in the village. The men kill each other off over rights to Kalki and her child. In the meanwhile Kalki goes into labour. The film ends on a violent but hopeful note, as she bears a baby girl.\n\nDirector Manish Jha's debut short film, \"A Very Very Silent Film\" (2001), had previously won the Jury Prize for the Best Short Film at the Cannes Film Festival in 2002. He got the idea of \"Matrubhoomi\" upon reading, in a news magazine, about a village in Gujarat without women. Subsequently, while surfing the web, he read an article mentioning the fact that over the years, millions of girl children had fallen victims to gender discrimination in India. The film's French producer Patrick Sobelman asked Jha to produce a script outline on the subject, and he put out a two-page synopsis. Within a week he wrote a 200-page script, which he cut back to 70 pages. The project received a green light when its Indian producer Pankej Kharabanda came on board.\n\nHaving grown up in Bihar, he said he was aware of the practice of female infanticide and wanted to write a script about a future village if the practice continued. As women became extinct, the film allowed him to bring to light issues like polyandry, bride buying and rape.\n\n\"Matrubhoomi\"'s lead actress Tulip Joshi had refused the film after the first reading, but eventually decided to take it up. As she added, \"But I'm glad I took it up finally, even though there was a point when I felt disgusted.\"\n\nThe film was shot on a tight budget of Rs. 2 crore, in Renai, a remote village in Harda district of Madhya Pradesh in 29 days. The cast included actors from Delhi theatre circuit, Sushant Singh, Aditya Shrivastav, Piyush Mishra and Deepak Bandhu.\n\nAs per director, Manish Jha, \"I wanted to examine the emotional and psychological impact of a society without women,\" ... \"It is a very extreme situation ... a whole nation without women.\"\n\nThe central character Kalki being married to five brothers is analogous to Queen Draupadi being married to the Pandava brothers in \"Mahabharata\". Kalki references to the forecast of Vishnu's tenth incarnation, Kalki, who would end the Kaliyuga.\n\nAfter running through the festival circuit, including the 2003 Venice Film Festival, 2003 Toronto International Film Festival, \"Matrubhoomi\" was commercially released two years later on 8 July 2005, with 150 prints. It was dubbed into six languages, including Tamil, Telugu, Bhojpuri, Gujarati, Bengali, and French, on a budget of Rs. 3 crore, to reach a wider audience.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6890389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6890389", "title": "Micheline Charest", "text": "Micheline Charest\n\nMicheline Charest (March 16, 1953 – April 14, 2004) was a television producer and founder (and former co-chair) of the Cinar (later Cookie Jar Entertainment and now DHX Media) television company.\n\nBorn in London and raised in Quebec, Charest returned to the UK to attend the London International Film School. In 1976, she traveled to New Orleans where she met her future husband, New Yorker and Tulane graduate Ronald A. Weinberg. While in New Orleans, Charest and Weinberg organized an event for a women's film festival, and worked at distributing foreign films to US theatres. The couple moved to New York and formed Cinar, then a budding film and television distribution company.\n\nIn 1984, Charest and Weinberg changed their focus from media distribution to production, and moved the business to Montreal, where they concentrated on children's television programming because of the favorable tax situation for development and distribution of TV shows. During this time, Charest served as either producer or executive producer for dozens of popular animated series for children, including \"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz\", \"Animal Crackers\", \"Emily of New Moon\", \"Mona the Vampire\", and \"The Wombles\". As a production company, Cinar was also involved in the work of \"Are You Afraid of the Dark?\", \"The Busy World of Richard Scarry\", \"Madeline\", \"Space Cases\", \"Zoboomafoo\", and \"Arthur\". By 1999, Cinar boasted annual revenues of $150 million (CAD) and owned about $1.5 billion (CAD) of the children's television market. The company had become known for quality, non-violent children's programs broadcast in more than 150 countries and was one of the founding partners in the Canadian cable television channel TELETOON.\n\nThe success of Charest, Weinberg, and Cinar ended in March 2000, when an internal audit revealed that about $122 million (US) was invested into Bahamian bank accounts without the boardmembers' approval. Cinar had also paid American screenwriters for work while continuing to accept Government of Canada grants for content. The names of Canadians, most notably Micheline Charest's sister, Helene, were credited for the work, allowing Cinar to benefit from Canadian tax credits. While the province of Quebec did not file criminal charges, Cinar denied any wrongdoing, choosing instead to pay a settlement to Canadian and Quebec tax authorities of $17.8 million (CAD) and another $2.6 million (CAD) to Telefilm Canada, a Canadian federal funding agency. The value of Cinar stock plummeted, and the company was soon delisted.\n\nIn 2001, as part of a settlement agreement with the Commission des Valeurs Mobilières du Québec (Quebec Securities Commission) Charest and Weinberg agreed to pay $1 million each and were banned from serving in the capacity of directors or officers at any publicly traded Canadian company for five years. There was no admission of guilt and none of the allegations have been proven in court. In March 2004, Cinar was purchased for more than $140 million (US) by a group led by Nelvana co-founder, Michael Hirsh. Charest and Weinberg reportedly received $18 million (US) for their company shares.\n\nIn August 2009 Claude Robinson, a graphic artist and writer, won a copyright case against Cinar, Weinberg, Charest and Co. in relation to his work, Robinson Curiosité, which was plagiarized for the internationally successful animated series \"Robinson Sucroë\".\n\nCharest died on April 14, 2004 due to complications ensued after elective plastic surgery.\n\nCharest was ranked 19th in \"The Hollywood Reporter's\" 1997 list of the 50 most powerful women in the entertainment industry.\n\nCharest and Weinberg had two children together.\n"}
{"id": "869819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=869819", "title": "Minton's Playhouse", "text": "Minton's Playhouse\n\nMinton's Playhouse is a jazz club and bar located on the first floor of the Cecil Hotel at 210 West 118th Street in Harlem and is a registered trademark of Housing and Services, Inc. a New York City nonprofit provider of supportive housing. The door to the actual club itself is at 206 West 118th Street where there is a small plaque. Minton's was founded by tenor saxophonist Henry Minton in 1938. Minton's is famous for its role in the development of modern jazz, also known as bebop, where in its jam sessions in the early 1940s, Thelonious Monk, Bud Powell, Kenny Clarke, Charlie Christian, Charlie Parker and Dizzy Gillespie, pioneered the new music. Minton's thrived for three decades until its decline near the end of the 1960s, and its eventual closing in 1974. After being shuttered for more than 30 years, the newly remodeled club reopened its doors on May 19, 2006, under the name Uptown Lounge at Minton's Playhouse. However, the reopened club was closed again in 2010. Remodeling began again in 2012.\n\nMinton's original owner, Henry Minton, was well known in Harlem for being the first ever black delegate to the American Federation of Musicians Local 802. In addition, he had been the manager of the \nRhythm Club, in Harlem, in the early part of the 1930s, a place where Louis Armstrong, Fats Waller, James P. Johnson, and Earl Hines frequented. The novelist Ralph Ellison later wrote that because of his union background and music business experience, Minton was aware of the economic and artistic needs of jazz musicians in New York in the late 1930s. Minton's popularity and his penchant for generosity with food and loans, made his club a favorite hang-out for musicians.\n\nMinton started a policy of holding regular jam sessions at his club, which would later prove to be a key factor in the development of bebop. Because of his union ties, Minton was able to ensure that musicians would not be fined for their participation in jam sessions, an activity that was prohibited by the union. Dizzy Gillespie recalled that there were \"walking\" delegates from the union that would follow musicians around and fine them \"a hundred to five hundred dollars\" for participating in jam sessions, but that they were \"somewhat immune from this at Minton's because of Henry Minton.\" According to Ralph Ellison, Minton's Playhouse provided \"a retreat, a homogeneous community where a collectivity of common experience could find continuity and meaningful expression.\"\n\nIn late 1940, Minton hired Teddy Hill, a former bandleader, to manage the club. Building in the same direction that Minton had started, Hill used his connections from the Savoy Ballroom (where his band used to play), and the Apollo Theatre to increase the interest in the club. Hill put together the house band which included Thelonious Monk on piano, Joe Guy on trumpet, Nick Fenton on bass, and Kenny Clarke on drums. Both Clarke and Guy were in Teddy Hill's band before it disbanded in 1939. According to Clarke, Teddy Hill wanted to \"do something for the guys that had worked with him\" by giving them work during difficult times. The house band at Minton's in 1941, with the addition of frequent guests, Dizzy Gillespie and Charlie Christian, was at the center of the emergence of bebop in the early 1940s. Later, the band was led by tenor saxophonist Kermit Scott.\n\nA feature of Minton's Playhouse during Teddy Hill's tenure as manager was the popular \"Monday Celebrity Nights\" sponsored by the Schiffmans who owned the nearby Apollo Theater. The Schiffmans treated their performers to free dinner and drinks after the conclusion of a long week of work. The food at Minton's became almost as popular as the music as noted by many present at that time. In an interview with Al Fraser (1979), Dizzy Gillespie told his recollection of Monday nights at Minton's:\n\"On Monday nights, we used to have a ball. Everybody from the Apollo, on Monday nights, was a guest at Minton's, the whole band. We had a big jam session. Monday night was the big night, the musician's night off. There was always some food there for you. Oh, that part was beautiful. Teddy Hill treated the guys well\".\nDuring the \"Monday Celebrity Nights\", many notable guest musicians such as Roy Eldridge, Hot Lips Page, Ben Webster, Don Byas, and Lester Young would sit in. The trumpet duels between Roy Eldridge and Dizzy Gillespie became legend, with Gillespie eventually surpassing his mentor. Speaking to Al Fraser, Gillespie recalled how Thelonious Monk one night teased Eldridge after being out-played by Gillespie saying, \"Look, you're supposed to be the greatest trumpet player in the world...but that's the best.\" Even though Eldridge was an established musician in the older swing style, he was an active figure at Minton's and contributed through his encouragement of Gillespie and Clarke to further their explorations.\n\nEldridge and the other swing masters who participated in the early cutting sessions at Minton's played an important role in the evolution of swing toward bebop by inspiring the next generation of musicians. A young Sonny Stitt witnessed the great battles between the master saxophonists of the day in the early 1940s:\n\"Can you imagine Lester Young, Coleman Hawkins, Chu Berry, Don Byas, and Ben Webster on the same little jam session? They had a place called Minton's Playhouse in New York. It's kaput now. And these guys, man, nothing like it. And guess who won the fight?...Don Byas walked off with everything\".\n\nByas was one of the first tenor saxophonists to assimilate bebop into his style, in contrast to Young, Hawkins, and Webster, who stayed close to their swing roots through the development of bebop.\n\nHerman Pritchard, who tended bar at Minton's \"in the old days\", would watch as Ben Webster and Lester Young would \"fight on those saxophones...like dogs in the road.\" Ralph Ellison believes that what was occurring at Minton's from 1941 to 1942 was a \"continuing symposium of jazz, a summation of all the styles, personal and traditional, of jazz.\"\n\nOne of the pioneers of the new style, which would eventually become known as bebop, was the young electric guitarist from Benny Goodman's band, Charlie Christian. He played nightly at Minton's and was one of its stars. Although Christian was in his early twenties in 1941, his time at Minton's was significant, but brief; he would die the next March after being confined to a sanatorium stricken with tuberculosis. As evidenced by recordings made by Columbia University student Jerry Newman in 1941, Christian's playing was breaking new ground. Gunther Schuller's assessment of Christian's playing on those recordings is as follows: \n\"His work here seems to me relentlessly creative, endlessly fertile, and is so in a way that marks a new stylistic departure. Indeed, it signals the birth of a new language in jazz, which even [Charlie] Parker did not have as clearly in focus at that time\".\n\nKenny Clarke and the band at Minton's would look forward with anticipation to Christian's arrival after finishing his set with Goodman. Christian was admired by his peers at Minton's, including Thelonious Monk who \"loved listening to Charlie play solos with fluid lines and interesting harmonies.\" Hill bought Christian an amplifier to use so he would not have to bring his along. Hill had it up until his death in 1978. Gillespie and Monk do not appear on the Christian recordings. Joe Guy and Kenny Kersey are the trumpet and piano on \"Swing to Bop\" and \"Stompin' at the Savoy.\"\n\nSoon after Charlie Christian's death, alto saxophonist Charlie Parker emerged as a new leader of the bebop movement. Parker's collaboration with Dizzy Gillespie, Thelonious Monk and Kenny Clarke, at sessions at Minton's, would build on the earlier experiments of Christian. Before 1942, Parker was known to have spent more time at Clark Monroe's Uptown House, another Harlem club where jam sessions extended into the early morning than he spent playing at Minton's. After leaving Jay McShann's band at the end of 1941, Parker joined Earl Hines's band in 1942 and was reunited with Dizzy Gillespie, who he had met sometime earlier. It was during this period of time starting in 1942 that Parker, nicknamed 'Bird', could be found sitting-in at Minton's on Monday nights as recalled by Miles Davis:\n\"On Monday nights at Minton’s, Bird and Dizzy would come in to jam, so you’d have a thousand [players] up there trying to get in so they could listen to and play with Bird and Dizzy. But most of the musicians in the know didn't even think about playing when Bird and Dizzy came to jam. We would just sit out in the audience, to listen and learn\".\nParker never was officially a member of the house band at Minton's during that period, however sensing his importance to the bebop movement, Clarke and Monk approached Teddy Hill about hiring Parker into the band. Hill refused so Clarke and Monk decided to pay Parker out of their salaries.\n\nAfter Parker's arrival on the scene in Harlem, a new generation of player followed. Miles Davis, Fats Navarro, Dexter Gordon, Art Blakey, Max Roach and many others were drawn to Minton's. Miles Davis's search for Charlie Parker brought him to Minton's where he \"cut his teeth\" at the jam sessions. Miles remembered:\n\"The way [it] went down up at Minton's was you brought your horn and hoped that Bird and Dizzy would invite you to play with them up on stage. And when this happened you better not blow it...People would watch for clues from Bird and Dizzy, and if they smiled when you finished playing, then that meant your playing was good\".\n\nDavis's remarks reflect on the frenzy in Harlem for the new sounds of bebop that surrounded Parker, Gillespie and Minton's.\n\nMinton's Playhouse became so popular in those days that the house band began to develop ways of weeding out less skilled musicians who wanted to sit in. According to bassist Milt Hinton, Gillespie prompted the band to play standards, such as Gershwin's \"I Got Rhythm\", in difficult keys in order to discourage beginners from sitting in. Bassist Charles Mingus remembers being required to audition to get up on stage:\n\"To play at Minton’s you couldn’t just walk in and grab a bass. They made you go in a back room or a kitchen and call a few tunes. They did it to me too. They said, “Can you play ‘Perdido’? Can you play ‘Body and Soul’?”\"\n\nPractices such as these challenged up-and-coming jazz musicians to get their acts together in order to participate in the jam sessions, which kept the music at a high level.\n\nMinton's changed its open jam policy in favor of big name acts in the 1950s. By the late 1960s bands were no longer at the cutting edge. Harlem writer, Amiri Baraka (LeRoi Jones) wrote in \"Black Music\" (1967), that \"The groups that come into Minton's are stand-up replicas of what was a highly experimental twenty-five years ago.\" Although the club was open for a little more than three decades, Minton's Playhouse will always be associated with the 1940s and the jam sessions that gave birth to bebop.\n\nIn 2013, Richard Parsons revived Minton's as an upscale Jazz club and restaurant. The restaurant's cuisine was entrusted to noted restaurateur Alexander Smalls. The new club was designed by architect Sarah Garcia of Estudio Sarah Garcia and a new brand identity designed by New York designer John Simoudis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3473169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3473169", "title": "Orientalism (book)", "text": "Orientalism (book)\n\nOrientalism is a 1978 book by Edward W. Said, in which the author discusses Orientalism, defined as the West's patronizing representations of \"The East\"—the societies and peoples who inhabit the places of Asia, North Africa, and the Middle East. According to Said, orientalism (the Western scholarship about the Eastern World) is inextricably tied to the imperialist societies who produced it, which makes much Orientalist work inherently political and servile to power.\n\nAccording to Said, in the Middle East, the social, economic, and cultural practices of the ruling Arab élites indicate they are imperial satraps who have internalized the romanticized \"Arab Culture\" created by French, British and, later, American Orientalists; the examples include critical analyses of the colonial literature of Joseph Conrad, which conflates a people, a time, and a place into a narrative of incident and adventure in an exotic land.\n\nThe critical application of post-structuralism in the scholarship of \"Orientalism\" influenced the development of literary theory, cultural criticism, and the field of Middle Eastern studies, especially regarding how academics practice their intellectual enquiry when examining, describing, and explaining the Middle East. The scope of Said's scholarship established \"Orientalism\" as a foundation text in the field of post-colonial culture studies, which examines the denotations and connotations of Orientalism, and the history of a country's post-colonial period.\n\nAs a public intellectual, Edward Said debated Orientalism with historians and scholars of area studies, notably, the historian Bernard Lewis, who described the thesis of \"Orientalism\" as \"anti-Western\". For subsequent editions of \"Orientalism\", Said wrote an \"Afterword\" (1995) and a \"Preface\" (2003) addressing criticisms of the content, substance, and style of the work as cultural criticism.\n\nOrientalism is the exaggeration of difference, the presumption of Western superiority, and the application of clichéd analytical models for perceiving the Oriental world. As such, Orientalism is the source of the inaccurate cultural representations that form the foundations of Western thought and perception of the Eastern world, specifically in relation to the Middle East region.\n\nThe word ‘Orientalism’ refers to at least three separate but interrelated meanings: 1) an academic tradition or field; 2) a worldview, representation, and “style of thought based upon an ontological and epistemological distinction made between \"the Orient\" and (most of the time) \"the Occident\"”; and 3) as a powerful political instrument of domination.\n\nThe principal characteristic of Orientalism is a \"subtle and persistent Eurocentric prejudice against Arab-Islamic peoples and their culture\", which derives from Western images of what is Oriental (cultural representations) that reduce the Orient to the fictional essences of \"Oriental peoples\" and \"the places of the Orient\"; such cultural representations dominate the communications (discourse) of Western peoples with and about non-Western peoples.\n\nThese cultural representations usually depict the ‘Orient’ as primitive, irrational, violent, despotic, fanatic, and essentially inferior to the westerner or native informant, and hence, ‘enlightenment’ can only occur when “traditional” and “reactionary” values are replaced by “contemporary” and “progressive” ideas that are either western or western-influenced.\n\nIn practice, the imperial and colonial enterprises of the West are facilitated by collaborating régimes of Europeanized Arab élites who have internalized the fictional, romanticized representations of Arabic culture—the Orientalism invented by French and English Orientalists, and continued in the twentieth century by American Orientalists. As such, Orientalist stereotypes of the cultures of the Eastern world have served, and continue to serve, as implicit justifications for the colonial ambitions and the imperial endeavours of the U.S. and the European powers. In that vein, about contemporary Orientalist stereotypes of Arabs and Muslims, Said said:\n\n\"Orientalism\" (1978) proposes that much of the Western study of Islamic civilization was an exercise in political intellectualism; a psychological exercise in the self-affirmation of \"European identity\"; not an objective exercise of intellectual enquiry and the academic study of Eastern cultures. Therefore, Orientalism was a method of practical and cultural discrimination that was applied to non-European societies and peoples in order to establish European imperial domination. In justification of empire, the Orientalist claims to know more—essential and definitive knowledge—about the Orient than do the Orientals. That Western writings about the Orient, the perceptions of the East presented in Orientalism, cannot be taken at face value, because they are cultural representations based upon fictional, Western images of the Orient. That the history of European colonial rule and political domination of Eastern civilizations, distorts the intellectual objectivity of even the most knowledgeable, well-meaning, and culturally sympathetic Western Orientalist; thus did the term \"Orientalism\" become a pejorative word regarding non–Western peoples and cultures:\n\nThe notion of cultural representations as a means for domination and control would remain a central feature of Said’s critical approach proposed in \"Orientalism\" (1978). Towards the end of his life for instance, Said argued that while representations are essential for the function of human life and societies – as essential as language itself – what must cease are representations that are authoritatively repressive, because they do not provide any real possibilities for those being represented to intervene in this process.\n\nThe alternative to an exclusionary representational system for Said would be one that is “participatory and collaborative, non-coercive, rather than imposed”, yet he recognised the extreme difficulty involved in bringing about such an alternative. Difficult because advances in the “electronic transfer of images” is increasing media concentration in the hands of powerful, transnational conglomerates. This concentration is of such great magnitude that ‘dependent societies’ situated outside of the “central metropolitan zones” are greatly reliant upon these systems of representation for information about themselves - otherwise known as self-knowledge. For Said, this process of gaining self-knowledge by peripheral societies is insidious, because the system upon which they rely is presented as natural and real, such that it becomes practically unassailable.\n\nSaid said that the Western world sought to dominate the Eastern world for more than 2,000 years, since Classical antiquity (8th c. BC – AD 6th c.), the time of the play \"The Persians\" (472 BC), by Aeschylus, which celebrates a Greek victory (Battle of Salamis, 480 BC) against the Persians in the course of the Persian Wars (499–449 BC)—imperial conflict between the Greek West and the Persian East. Europe's long, military domination of Asia (empire and hegemony) made unreliable most Western texts about the Eastern world, because of the implicit cultural bias that permeates most Orientalism, which was not recognized by most Western scholars.\n\nIn the course of empire, after the physical-and-political conquest, there followed the intellectual conquest of a people, whereby Western scholars appropriated for themselves (as European intellectual property) the interpretation and translation of Oriental languages, and the critical study of the cultures and histories of the Oriental world. In that way, by using Orientalism as the intellectual norm for cultural judgement, Europeans wrote the history of Asia, and invented the \"exotic East\" and the \"inscrutable Orient\", which are cultural representations of peoples and things considered inferior to the peoples and things of the West.\n\n\"Orientalism\" concluded that \"Western knowledge of the Eastern world\", i.e. Orientalism fictionally depicts the Orient as an irrational, psychologically weak, and feminized, non-European Other, which is negatively contrasted with the rational, psychologically strong, and masculine West. Such a binary relation, in a hierarchy of weakness and strength, derives from the European psychological need to create a difference of cultural inequality, between West and East, which inequality is attributable to \"immutable cultural essences\" inherent to Oriental peoples and things.\n\nThe notion of an Orient has played a central role in constructing European culture, and “helped to define Europe (or the West) as its contrasting image, idea, personality, experience”. The binary relationship of strong-West-and-weak-East reinforces the cultural stereotypes invented with literary, cultural, and historical texts that are more fictitious than factual; yet, which give the reader of Orientalist texts (history, travelogue, anthropology, etc.) a limited understanding of life in the Middle East, because Orientalism conflates the different societies of the Eastern world, into the homogeneous world of \"the Orient\".\n\nThe contemporary, historical impact of \"Orientalism\" (1978) was in explaining the \"How?\" and the \"Why?\" of imperial impotence; in the 1970s, to journalists, academics, and Orientalists, the Yom Kippur war (6–25 October 1973) and the OPEC petroleum embargo (October 1973 – March 1974) were recent modern history. The Western world had been surprised, by the pro-active and decisive actions of non-Western peoples, whom the ideology of Orientalism had defined as essentially weak societies and impotent countries. The geopolitical reality of their actions, of military and economic warfare, voided the fictional nature of Orientalist representations, attitudes, and opinions about the non-Western Other self.\n\nMoving from the assertion that ‘pure knowledge’ is simply not possible (as all forms of knowledge are inevitably influenced by ideological standpoints), Said sought to explain the connection between ideology and literature. He argued that “Orientalism is not a mere political subject or field that is reflected passively by culture, scholarship, or institutions”, but rather “a distribution of geopolitical awareness into aesthetic, scholarly, economic, sociological, historical, and philological texts”. European literature for Said carried, actualised, and propelled Orientalist notions forward and constantly reinforced them. Put differently, literature produced by Europeans made possible the domination of the people of the ‘East’ because of the Orientalist discourse embedded within these texts. Literature here is understood as a kind of carrier and distributor of ideology.\n\nThe greatest intellectual impact of \"Orientalism\" (1978) was upon the fields of literary theory, cultural studies, and human geography, by way of which originated the field of Post-colonial studies. Edward Said's method of post-structuralist analysis derived from the analytic techniques of Jacques Derrida and Michel Foucault; and the perspectives to Orientalism presented by Abdul Latif Tibawi, Anouar Abdel-Malek, Maxime Rodinson, and Richard William Southern.\n\nAs a work of cultural criticism, \"Orientalism\" (1978) is the foundation document in the field of Post-colonialism, because the thesis proved historically factual, true, and accurate for the periods studied; and for the \"How?\" and the \"Why?\" of the cultural representations of “Orientals”, “The Orient”, and “The Eastern world” as presented in the mass communications media of the Western world.\n\nPost-colonial theory studies the power and the continued dominance of Western ways of intellectual enquiry and the production of knowledge in the academic, intellectual, and cultural spheres of the de-colonised country. Said's survey concentrated upon the British and the French varieties of Orientalism that supported the British Empire and the French Empire as commercial enterprises constructed from colonialism, and gave perfunctory coverage, discussion, and analyses of German Orientalist scholarship.\n\nSuch disproportional investigation provoked criticism from opponents and embarrassment for supporters of Said, who, in “Orientalism Reconsidered” (1985), said that no one opponent provided a rationale, by which limited coverage of German Orientalism limits either the scholarly value or the practical application of \"Orientalism\" as a cultural study. In the Afterword to the 1995 edition of \"Orientalism\", Said presented follow-up refutations of the criticisms that the Orientalist and historian Bernard Lewis made against the book's first edition (1978).\n\nIn the fields of literary criticism and of cultural studies, the notable Indian scholars of post-colonialism were Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak (\"In Other Worlds: Essays in Cultural Politics\", 1987) whose essay \"Can the Subaltern Speak?\" (1988) also became a foundational text of Post-colonial culture studies; Homi K. Bhabha (\"Nation and Narration\", 1990); Ronald Inden (\"Imagining India\", 1990); Gyan Prakash (\"Writing Post–Orientalist Histories of the Third World: Perspectives from Indian Historiography\", 1990); Nicholas Dirks (\"Castes of Mind\", 2001); and Hamid Dabashi (\"\", 2007).\n\nIn \"White Mythologies: Writing History and the West\" (1990), Robert J. C. Young reported Post-colonial explanations of the \"How?\" and the \"Why?\" of the nature of the post-colonial world, the peoples, and their discontents; which verify the efficacy of the critical method applied in \"Orientalism\" (1978), especially in the field of Middle Eastern studies.\n\nIn the late 1970s, the survey range of \"Orientalism\" (1978) did not include the genre of Orientalist painting or any other visual arts, despite the book-cover featuring a detail-image of \"The Snake Charmer\" (1880), a popular, 19th-century Orientalist painting—to which the writer Linda Nochlin applied Said's method of critical analysis \"with uneven results\". In the field of epistemological studies, \"Orientalism\" is an extended application of methods of critical analysis developed by the philosopher Michel Foucault. The anthropologist Talal Asad said that the book \"Orientalism\" is:\n\nThe historian Gyan Prakash said that \"Orientalism\" describes how \"the hallowed image of the Orientalist, as an austere figure, unconcerned with the world and immersed in the mystery of foreign scripts and languages, has acquired a dark hue as the murky business of ruling other peoples, now forms the essential and enabling background of his or her scholarship\" about the Orient; without colonial imperialism, there would be no Orientalism.\n\nIn Eastern Europe, Milica Bakić-Hayden developed the concept of Nesting Orientalisms (1992), based upon and derived from the work of the historian Larry Wolff (\"Inventing Eastern Europe: The Map of Civilization on the Mind of the Enlightenment\", 1994), and the ideas Edward Said presented in \"Orientalism\" (1978).\n\nThe Bulgarian historian Maria Todorova (\"Imagining the Balkans\", 1997) presented her ethnologic concept of Nesting Balkanisms (\"Ethnologia Balkanica\",1997), which is thematically extended and theoretically derived from Milica Bakić-Hayden's Nesting Orientalisms.\n\nMoreover, in \"A Stereotype, Wrapped in a Cliché, Inside a Caricature: Russian Foreign Policy and Orientalism\" (2010), James D. J. Brown said that Western stereotypes of Russia, Russianness, and things Russian are cultural representations derived from the literature of \"Russian studies\", which is a field of enquiry little afflicted with the misconceptions of Russia-as-the-Other, but does display the characteristics of Orientalism—the exaggeration of difference, the presumption of Western cultural superiority, and the application of cliché in analytical models. That overcoming such intellectual malaise requires that area scholars choose to break their \"mind-forg'd manacles\" and deeply reflect upon the basic cultural assumptions of their area-studies scholarship.\n\n\"Orientalism\" proved intellectually, professionally, and personally controversial. The thesis, content, substance, and style were much criticised by Orientalist academics, such as Albert Hourani (\"A History of the Arab Peoples\", 1991), Robert Graham Irwin (\"For Lust of Knowing: The Orientalists and their Enemies\", 2006), Nikki Keddie (\"An Islamic Response to Imperialism, 1968)\", and Bernard Lewis (\"The Question of Orientalism\", \"Islam and the West\", 1993).\n\nIn a review of a book by Ibn Warraq, American classicist Bruce Thornton dismissed \"Orientalism\" as an \"incoherent amalgam of dubious postmodern theory, sentimental Third Worldism, glaring historical errors, and Western guilt\".\n\nIn the book-review article \"Enough Said\" (2007), about \"Dangerous Knowledge\" (2007), by Robert Irwin, in the preface paragraphs, Martin Kramer recapitulates the professional trials and tribulations of and repercussions to Orientalists caused by \"Orientalism\" (1978):\n\nNonetheless, the literary critic Paul De Man said that, as a literary critic, \"Said took a step further than any other modern scholar of his time, something I dare not do. I remain in the safety of rhetorical analysis, where criticism is the second-best thing I do.\"\n\nIn the book review, \"The Mightier Pen? Edward Said and the Double Standards of Inside-out Colonialism: a review of \"Culture and Imperialism\", by Edward Said\" (1993), Ernest Gellner said that Said's contention of Western domination of the Eastern world for more than 2,000 years was unsupportable, because, until the late 17th century, the Ottoman Empire (1299–1923) was a realistic military, cultural, and religious threat to (Western) Europe.\n\nIn \"Disraeli as an Orientalist: The Polemical Errors of Edward Said\" (2005), Mark Proudman noted incorrect 19th-century history in \"Orientalism\", that the geographic extent of the British Empire was not from Egypt to India in the 1880s, because the Ottoman Empire and the Persian Empire in that time intervened between those poles of empire. Moreover, at the zenith of the imperial era, European colonial power in the Eastern world never was absolute, it was relative and much dependent upon local collaborators — princes, rajahs, and warlords—who nonetheless often subverted the imperial and hegemonic aims of the colonialist power.\n\nIn \"For Lust of Knowing: The Orientalists and Their Enemies\" (2006), Robert Irwin said that Said's concentrating the scope of \"Orientalism\" to the Middle East, especially Palestine and Egypt, was a mistake, because the Mandate of Palestine (1920–1948) and British Egypt (1882–1956) only were under direct European control for a short time, in the late 19th and early 20th centuries; thus are poor examples for Said's theory of Western cultural imperialism. That \"Orientalism\" should have concentrated upon good examples of imperialism and cultural hegemony, such as the British Raj of India (1858–1947) and Russia's dominions in Asia (1721–1917), but he did not, because, as a public intellectual, Edward Said was more interested in making political points about the politics of the Middle East, in general, and of Palestine, in particular. Moreover, that by unduly concentrating on British and French Orientalism, Said ignored the domination of 19th century Oriental studies by German and Hungarian academics and intellectuals, whose countries did not possess an Eastern empire. Irwin's book was later criticized by Amir Taheri, writing in Asharq Al-Awsat, when he listed a number of factual and editing errors that Irwin makes in the book, also noting a number of prominent Orientalists left unmentioned.\n\nAmerican scholar of religion Jason Ānanda Josephson has argued that data from Japan complicates Said's thesis about Orientalism as a field linked to imperial power. Not only did Europeans study Japan without any hope of colonizing it, but Japanese academics played a prominent role as informants and interlocutors in this academic discipline, providing information both on their own practices and history and on the history of China. Moreover, Josephson has documented that European conferences on East Asia predate European conferences on the Middle East described by Said, necessitating an alternative chronology of Western academic interest in the Orient.\n\nIn the article \"Said's Splash\" (2001), Martin Kramer said that, fifteen years after publication of \"Orientalism\" (1978), the UCLA historian Nikki Keddie (whom Said praised in \"Covering Islam\", 1981) who originally had praised \"Orientalism\" as an 'important, and, in many ways, positive' book, had changed her mind. In \"Approaches to the History of the Middle East\" (1994), Keddie criticised Said's work on Orientalism, for the unfortunate consequences upon her profession as an historian:\n\nIn the article, \"Edward Said's Shadowy Legacy\" (2008), Robert Irwin said that Said ineffectively distinguished among writers of different centuries and genres of Orientalist literature. That the disparate examples, such as the German poet Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (1749–1832) who never travelled to the Orient; the French novelist Gustave Flaubert (1821–1880) who briefly toured Egypt; the French Orientalist Ernest Renan (1823–1892), whose anti-Semitism voided his work; and the British Arabist Edward William Lane (1801–1876), who compiled the \"Arabic–English Lexicon\" (1863–93)—did not constitute a comprehensive scope of investigation or critical comparison. In that vein, in \"Defending the West: A Critique of Edward Said's Orientalism\" (2007), Ibn Warraq earlier had said that in \"Orientalism\" (1978) Said had constructed a binary-opposite representation, a fictional European stereotype that would counter-weigh the Oriental stereotype. Being European is the only common trait among such a temporally and stylistically disparate group of literary Orientalists.\n\nIn \"The Asiatic Society of Bengal and the Discovery of India's Past\" (1988) O.P. Kejariwal said that with the creation of a monolithic Occidentalism to oppose the Orientalism of Western discourse with the Eastern world, Said had failed to distinguish, between the paradigms of Romanticism and the Enlightenment, and ignored the differences among Orientalists; and that he failed to acknowledge the positive contributions of Orientalists who sought kinship, between the worlds of the East and the West, rather than to create an artificial \"difference\" of cultural inferiority and superiority; such a man was William Jones (1746–1794), the British philologist–lexicographer who proposed that Indo–European languages are interrelated.\n\nIn the essay \"The Debate About 'Orientalism\"', Harry Oldmeadow said \"that Said’s treatment of Orientalism, particularly the assertion of the necessary nexus with imperialism, is over-stated and unbalanced.\" He objected to Said's view that Western Orientalists were projecting upon the \"artificial screen called “the East” or “the Orient”, but that such projection was only a small part of the relationship. That Said failed to adequately distinguish between the genuine experiences of the Orient and the cultural projections of Westerners. He further criticized Said for using reductionist models of religion and spirituality, that are based on \"Marxist/Foucauldian/psychoanalytic thought\".\n\nIn the sociological article, \"Review: Who is Afraid of Edward Said?\" (1999) Biswamoy Pati said that in making ethnicity and cultural background the tests of moral authority and intellectual objectivity in studying the Oriental world, Said drew attention to his personal identity as a Palestinian and as a subaltern of the British Empire, in the Near East. Therefore, from the perspective of the Orientalist academic, Said's personal background might, arguably, exclude him from writing about the Oriental world, hindered by an upper-class birth, an Anglophone upbringing, a British-school education in Cairo, residency in the U.S., a university-professor job; and categorical statements, such as: \"any and all representations ... are embedded, first, in the language, and then, in the culture, institutions, and political ambience of the representer ... [the cultural representations are] interwoven with a great many other things, besides 'the Truth', which is, itself, a representation.\"\n\nHence, in the article \"Orients and Occidents: Colonial Discourse Theory and the Historiography of the British Empire\", D.A. Washbrook said that Said and his academic cohort indulge in excessive cultural relativism, which intellectual excess traps them in a \"web of solipsism\", which limits conversation exclusively to \"cultural representations\" and to denying the existence of objective truth. That Said and his followers fail to distinguish between the types and degrees of Orientalism represented by the news media and popular culture (e.g., the light Orientalism of the children's movie \"Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom\", 1984), and heavy academic Orientalism about the language and literature, history and culture of the peoples of the Eastern world.\n\nIn the article \"Orientalism Now\" (1995), the historian Gyan Prakash said that Edward Said had explored fields of Orientalism already surveyed by his predecessors and contemporaries, such as V. G. Kiernan, Bernard S. Cohn, and Anwar Abdel Malek, who also had studied, reported, and interpreted the social relationship that makes the practice of imperialism intellectually, psychologically, and ethically feasible; that is, the relationship between European imperial rule and European representations of the non-European Other self, the colonised people. That, as an academic investigator, Said already had been preceded in the critical analysis of the production of Orientalist knowledge and about Western methods of Orientalist scholarship, because, in the 18th century, \"Abd al-Rahman al-Jabarti [1753–1825], the Egyptian chronicler, and a witness to Napoleon's invasion of Egypt in 1798, for example, had no doubt that the expedition was as much an epistemological as military conquest\". Nonetheless, George Landow, of Brown University, who criticized Said's scholarship and contested his conclusions, acknowledged that \"Orientalism\" is a major work of cultural criticism.\n\nIn October 2003, one month after the death of Edward W. Said (1935–2003), the Lebanese newspaper \"Daily Star\" recognized the intellectual import of the book, saying \"Said's critics agree with his admirers that he has single-handedly effected a revolution in Middle Eastern studies in the U.S.\" and that \"U.S. Middle Eastern Studies were taken over, by Edward Said's postcolonial studies paradigm\", \"Orientalism\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36188175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36188175", "title": "Paintings from Arlanza", "text": "Paintings from Arlanza\n\nThe paintings from Arlanza are a set of frescos belonging to the mural decoration of a Benedictine monastery of San Pedro de Arlanza, in the Province of Burgos, Castile and León, Spain, dating to around 1210, and now dispersed among a number of collections. The Spanish government began to detach and sell sections of the frescos in the 19th century, though less exciting sections remain \"in situ\". The largest group of six major fragments has moved to the National Art Museum of Catalonia of Barcelona in 1943. Most of the Romanesque mural painting that has survived is of religious subjects, but there was also find decoration of a courtly or profane nature in large monastic centres, such as Arlanza in Castile, and these fragments represent especially rare survivals. According to C.R. Dodwell, the \"imposing\" Arlanza paintings are \"endowed with all the power and grandeur of Romanesque at its best\".\n\nThe ten very large animals and other subjects from the world of heraldry come from the chapter house or a room above, on the lowest floor of the so-called \"Torre del Tesoro\" (Treasury Tower), and are inspired by illuminated bestiaries, with the basic landscape backgrounds that are often seen in these. The Barcelona group includes a gryphon, a legendary creature with the body of a lion and the head and wings of an eagle, in a watchful pose. The MNAC has 5 more fragments from the same decorative group. There are other panels of a lion and a dragon, now at The Cloisters in New York, one at the Harvard University Fogg Art Museum, and another in a private collection.\n\nThe style of the paintings in Arlanza is related to other Spanish works of around 1200, especially the frescos from the Monastery of Santa María de Sigena (also in MNAC, Barcelona), which are clearly influenced by English illuminated manuscript miniature painting, something that can be seen in the refinement and the precision of the motifs, combined with their monumental nature. The Sigena frescos, which are probably actually largely by English artists, namely some of the team who illuminated the Winchester Bible, also contain a very similar gryphon and lion, and are possibly by the same principal artist. The Arlanza fragments in New York still include their section of the black and white frieze with more figures including fabulous beasts running below the large polychrome animals.\n\n"}
{"id": "25365169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25365169", "title": "Pendant vault", "text": "Pendant vault\n\nA pendant vault is a rare form of vault used in late Gothic architecture in which large decorative pendants hang from the vault at a distance from the walls. In some cases, the pendants are a large form of boss.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24157019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24157019", "title": "Religious views on genetically modified foods", "text": "Religious views on genetically modified foods\n\nReligious views on genetically modified foods have been mixed, although as yet, no genetically modified foods (\"GM\" foods) have been designated as unacceptable by religious authorities.\n\nThere is no consensus in the views of Jewish religious leaders, scholars and commentators on whether Jews can eat GM food products or engage in research in the area of GM food technology.\n\nOne perspective emphasizes that humanity was created in God's image and this means that humanity can \"partner with God in the perfection of everything in the world,\" and therefore Jewish law accepts genetic engineering to save and prolong human life as well as increase the quality or quantity of the world's food supply.\n\nOther perspectives hold that GM food technology is a violation of Kil'ayim, the mixed breeding of crops or livestock, and that because God made \"distinctions in the natural world\", Jews must honor them.\n\nFrom the perspective of kosher laws, food made with genes from pigs or other non-kosher animals would likely be nonkosher.\n\nIslam too forbids eating of pork, and Islamic scholars have also raised concern about the theoretical production of foods with genes from pigs.\n\nAnd there are varying perspectives. A seminar of Islamic scholars in Kuwait on genetics and genetic engineering in October 1998 concluded that although there are fears about the possibility of the harmful effects of GM food technology and GM food products on human beings and the environment, there are no laws within Islam which stop the genetic modification of food crops and animals. And in 2003, the Indonesian Ulemas Council (MUI) approved the importation and consumption of genetically modified food products by Indonesian Muslims. Others have written that while there are Quranic verses forbidding humanity from defacing God's creation, these \"cannot be invoked as a total and radical ban on genetic engineering ... If carried too far, it would conflict with many forms of curative surgery that also entail some change in God's creation\".\n\nVoices in opposition to GMOs argue, based on the Quran, that there is no need for genetic modification of food crops because God created everything perfectly and man does not have any right to manipulate anything that God has created nor to tamper with it.\n\nViews of Rome on genetic engineering\nIn 1999, after two years of discussions, the Vatican's Pontifical Academy for Life stated that modifying the genes of plants and animals is theologically acceptable. The Guardian reported that \"Bishop Elio Sgreccia, vice- president of the pontifical academy, said: 'We are increasingly encouraged that the advantages of genetic engineering of plants and animals are greater than the risks. The risks should be carefully followed through openness, analysis and controls, but without a sense of alarm.' Referring to genetically modified products such as corn and soya, Sgreccia added: 'We give it a prudent 'yes' We cannot agree with the position of some groups that say it is against the will of God to meddle with the genetic make-up of plants and animals.'\"\n\nIn 2000 as part of the Great Jubilee Pope John Paul II gave an address concerning agriculture, at which he said: The \"famous words of Genesis entrust the earth to man's use, not abuse. They do not make man the absolute arbiter of the earth's governance, but the Creator's \"co-worker\": a stupendous mission, but one which is also marked by precise boundaries that can never be transgressed with impunity. This is a principle to be remembered in agricultural production itself, whenever there is a question of its advance through the application of biotechnologies, which cannot be evaluated solely on the basis of immediate economic interests. They must be submitted beforehand to rigorous scientific and ethical examination, to prevent them from becoming disastrous for human health and the future of the earth.\"\n\nA 2002 meeting between bishops and scientists in the Philippines concluded that biotechnology could be an important stepping stone in the struggle against hunger and environmental pollution.\n\nA 2003 symposium gathered by Cardinal Renato T. Martino has examined the use of GMOs in modern agriculture. The symposium's study argued that the future of humanity is at stake and that there is no room for the ideological arguments advanced by environmentalists.\nVelasio De Paolis, a professor of canon law at the Pontifical Urban University, has said that it was \"easy to say no to GM food if your stomach is full\".\n\nIn 2008, Fr. Sean McDonagh, an Irish Columban priest and \"well-known commentator on environmental issues\", questioned whether hosts from transgenic wheat could ever be approved by the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith because of the Church's strict rules regarding sacramental bread. He specifically cited canon 924, which stipulates the bread must be wheaten only, and recently made, so that there is no danger of corruption.\n\nA 2009 study on genetically modified organisms sponsored by the Pontifical Academy of Sciences came to a favorable conclusion on GMOs, viewing them as praiseworthy for improving the lives of the poor.\n\nThe Philippines is a predominantly Catholic country, and official pronouncements of the Catholic Bishops Conference of the Philippines (CBCP) exert a strong influence in policy making and the CBCP has not supported biotechnology, and probably will not until there is an official endorsement from the Pope. President Arroyo’s visit to Rome on September 27, 2003, she apparently consulted Pope John Paul II about the Church position on biotechnology. On the basis of that meeting, she issued a statement indicating that she felt it was important that opponents of GMOs knew that according to the Vatican, GMOs are not immoral. The CBCP issued a statement in response stating that the Pope had not endorsed GMOs. In 2009 Bishop Vicente Navarra of the Diocese of Bacolod in the Philippines issued a pastoral letter calling on the Negros Occidental and Bacolod City governments to continue banning the entry of GMO products.\n\nIn 2004, the Church Environmental Network, representing members of the Anglican church of South Africa, spoke out against the South African government's backing of genetically modified organisms (GMOs).\n\nChristian Aid, a British ecumenical group, released a paper in 2000 that expressed sharp concerns about the agricultural biotechnology industry, particularly with regard to its potential effects on impoverished people and economic development in the developing world.\n\nAbout 550 Amish farmers in Pennsylvania have adopted nicotine-free tobacco since 2001, because it pays \"about $1.50 per pound for the nicotine-free tobacco, nearly double the 80-cent-per-pound rate for traditional tobacco. GMO crops do not conflict with the Amish lifestyle.\n\nWhile the Rastafari Movement as a whole has no central authority, a Rastafari Code of Conduct was ratified in July–August 2008 at a meeting in Jamaica of the Nyah Binghi Order, one of the three houses of the Rastafari movement; that Code defines GM food as not Ital.\n"}
{"id": "55237963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55237963", "title": "Sigmund Abeles", "text": "Sigmund Abeles\n\nSigmund Abeles (born 1934) is an American figurative artist and art educator. His work embodies the \"expressive and psychological aspects of the human figure; an art focused on the life cycle.\" He taught art for 27 years at various institutions including Swain School of Design, Wellesley College, Boston University, the National Academy, and the Art Students League of New York. Currently Professor Emeritus at the University of New Hampshire, Abeles works full-time in his NYC and upstate NY studios. He is the recipient of numerous grants and awards for printmaking, drawing, painting, and sculpture, including Pastel Society of America Hall of Fame honoree in 2004 and most recently the Artists' Fellowship 2017 Benjamin West Clinedinst Medal. His work can be found in many public institutions including the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Art Institute of Chicago, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Philadelphia Museum of Art, and the Whitney Museum of American Art. Abeles was one of three artists featured in Manfred Kirchheimer's 2012 feature-length independent film \"Art Is... The Permanent Revolution\", on the history of the art of protest in prints.\n\nBorn in Brooklyn, New York City, Abeles grew up in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. The only child of Samuel and Henrietta Abeles, he was named after his grandfather, a renowned Orthodox rabbi who immigrated to the United States from Hungary in 1901. His father, a Hungarian Jew, was a decorated World War I veteran who used his pension to open up a retail business in Sheeps Head Bay. His mother was of Polish-Jewish descent and worked as a librarian before her marriage. After his parents divorced early on in his life, he moved to Myrtle Beach with his mother where she started a new life by opening up a rooming house called Paul's Guest House on US Highway 17. Spending a great deal of time alone in the rooming house, Sigmund grew a fascination for how many types of people occupy the same domain which had a huge impact and direction on his artwork took. Sigmund Abeles received no formal art training in the public schools at Myrtle Beach. Searching for inspiration, Abeles found Brookgreen Gardens, an outdoor sculpture park, which provided him with a multitude of beautiful bronze and marble figures to sketch; years later, as an established artist, he had his life-sized bronze sculpture, “ Kaethe, age 9” (modeled in 1968 and later cast in Bronze in 2006), placed in Brookgreen’s permanent collection. Abeles was invited later to hold a major solo exhibition there in 2015 called \"Carolina Roots\". During his high school years, Sigmund was mentored by Truman Moore Sr., a wood sculptor, who pointed him towards the Boston artist Gerard Francis Tempest whom he later apprenticed with.Abeles attended the University of South Carolina, initially for pre-medical studies to appease his mother but he later switched to art studies. There he met Jasper Johns, an upper classman and became long term acquaintances. They shared the same art professors, Edmund Yaghijian and Catharine Rembert. In 1952, Abeles attended Pratt Institute in Brooklyn for only one semester because his mother would only allow him to study commercial art. In the summer of 1954, determined to pursue his love for fine arts and figurative study, he attended the Art Students League of New York where he was taught by Reginald Marsh, Morris Kantor and Harry Sternberg. In 1955, he received a scholarship to the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture in Maine. He worked under Edwin Dickinson and Isabel Bishop. There he also made lifelong friendships with fellow students Sidney Hurwitz, Philip Grausman, Jerome Witkin and Ashley Bryan. In 1957, he received another scholarship to study at Columbia University where he received his MFA in Painting in just one year. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "379153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=379153", "title": "Subplot", "text": "Subplot\n\nIn fiction, a subplot is a secondary strand of the plot that is a supporting side story for any story or the main plot. Subplots may connect to main plots, in either time and place or in thematic significance. Subplots often involve supporting characters, those besides the protagonist or antagonist. Subplots may also intertwine with the main plot at some point in a story.\n\nSubplots are distinguished from the main plot by taking up less of the action, having fewer significant events occur, with less impact on the \"world\" of the work, and occurring to less important characters. \n\nIn screenwriting, a subplot is referred to as a \"B story\" or a \"C story,\" etc.\n"}
{"id": "410604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=410604", "title": "Swan song", "text": "Swan song\n\nThe swan song (ancient Greek: κύκνειον ᾆσμα; Latin: \"carmen cygni\") is a metaphorical phrase for a final gesture, effort, or performance given just before death or retirement. The phrase refers to an ancient belief that swans (\"Cygnus\" spp.) sing a beautiful song just before their death, having been silent (or alternatively, not so musical) during most of their lifetime. This belief, whose basis in actuality is long-debated, had become proverbial in ancient Greece by the 3rd century BC, and was reiterated many times in later Western poetry and art.\n\nIn Greek mythology, the swan was a bird consecrated to Apollo, and it was therefore considered a symbol of harmony and beauty and its limited capabilities as a singer were sublimated to those of songbirds.\n\nAesop's fable of \"The Swan and the Goose\" incorporates the swan song legend as saving its life when it was caught by mistake instead of the goose but was recognized by its song. There is a subsequent reference in Aeschylus' \"Agamemnon\" (verses 1444–5) from 458 BC. In that play, Clytemnestra compares the dead Cassandra to a swan who has \"sung her last final lament\". Plato's \"Phaedo\" (84d) records Socrates saying that, although swans sing in early life, they do not do so as beautifully as before they die. Furthermore, Aristotle noted in his \"History of Animals\" (615b) that swans \"are musical, and sing chiefly at the approach of death\". By the third century BC the belief had become a proverb.\n\nOvid mentions it in \"The Story of Picus and Canens\" (\"Metamorphoses\", book XIV:320–396): \"There, she poured out her words of grief, tearfully, in faint tones, in harmony with sadness, just as the swan sings once, in dying, its own funeral song.\" The swan was also described as a singer in the works of the poets Virgil and Martial.\n\nThe most familiar European swan, the mute swan (\"Cygnus olor\"), although not actually mute, is known neither for musicality nor to vocalize as it dies. This has led some to criticize swan song beliefs since antiquity, one of the earliest being Pliny the Elder: in AD 77, \"Natural History\" (book 10, chapter xxxii: \"olorum morte narratur flebilis cantus, falso, ut arbitror, aliquot experimentis\"), states: \"observation shows that the story that the dying swan sings is false.\" Peterson et al. note that \"Cygnus olor\" is \"not mute but lacks bugling call, merely honking, grunting, and hissing on occasion.\"\n\nHowever, the whooper swan (\"Cygnus cygnus\"), a winter visitor to parts of the eastern Mediterranean, does possess a 'bugling' call, and has been noted for issuing a drawn-out series of notes as its lungs collapse upon expiry, both being a consequence of an additional tracheal loop within its sternum. This was proposed by naturalist Peter Pallas as the basis for the legend. Both mute and whooper swans appear to be represented in ancient Greek and Egyptian art.\n\nThe whooper swan's nearest relatives, the trumpeter and tundra swans, share its musical tracheal loop. Zoologist D.G. Elliot reported in 1898 that a tundra swan he had shot and wounded in flight began a long glide down whilst issuing a series of \"plaintive and musical\" notes that \"sounded at times like the soft running of the notes of an octave\".\n\nChaucer wrote of \"The Ialous swan, ayens his deth that singeth.\" Leonardo da Vinci noted \"The swan is white without spot, and it sings sweetly as it dies, that song ending its life.\"\n\nIn Shakespeare's \"The Merchant of Venice\", Portia exclaims \"Let music sound while he doth make his choice; Then, if he lose, he makes a swan-like end, / Fading in music.\" Similarly, in \"Othello\", the dying Emilia exclaims, \"I will play the swan, / And die in music.\"\n\nThe well-known Orlando Gibbons madrigal \"The Silver Swan\" states the legend thus:\n\"The Swan Song\" (\"Schwanengesang\") is the nickname of the 1733 Baroque Concerto written by Georg Philipp Telemann: Concerto in D minor for oboe, strings and continuo. \nThe concerto of Telemann begins with a sad part (adagio) later a glad part (allegro), the singing of the swan itself, another sad part (death), and finally a hopeful end.\n\nAccording to the Oxford English Dictionary, the English phrase \"swan song\" or \"swan-song\" borrows from the German \"schwanen(ge)sang\" or \"schwanenlied\". The Scottish cleric John Willison, in one of his Scripture Sermons, 1747, proposes a verse from Psalm 48 as a \"swan-song\" for the faithful.\n\nDanish painter Nicolai Abildgaard painted \"Ossian synger sin Svanesang\", or \"Ossian sings his swan song\", in 1780–1782.\n\nSamuel Taylor Coleridge made comic use of the legend when he quipped ironically:\nTennyson's poem \"The Dying Swan\" is a poetic evocation of the beauty of the supposed song and so full of detail as to imply that he had actually heard it:\nTennyson's poem was an inspiration for the ballet \"The Dying Swan\" created for Anna Pavlova in 1905 and danced to the music of \"Le cygne\" by the French composer Camille Saint-Saëns.\n\nThe band Led Zeppelin's record label for the second half of their career was Swan Song Records. Their first five releases were on Atlantic records, the next five were on Swan Song Records.\n\nIn the television show Supernatural, the twenty second episode of the fifth season is given the title Swan Song. \n\nSwan Song is one of the last tracks on singer Lana Del Rey's album Honeymoon.\n\nThe first track of Canadian band Islands' album, Return to the Sea, is entitled Swans (Life After Death). \n\nBy extension, \"swan song\" has become an idiom referring to a final theatrical or dramatic appearance, or any final work or accomplishment. For example, an athlete that wins a championship or breaks records in their final season are sometimes said to have had a \"swan song season.\"\n\nExamples:\n"}
{"id": "53054853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53054853", "title": "The Future of Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia", "text": "The Future of Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia\n\nThe Future of Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia is a 2006 book by Neil Gorsuch. The book presents legal and moral arguments against euthanasia and assisted suicide, advocating for the retention of bans on the practices. It explores case histories from jurisdictions that have legalized the practice, including Oregon and the Netherlands. \"The Future of Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia\" grew out of Gorsuch's doctoral dissertation. While attending Oxford University, he studied legal and ethical issues related to assisted suicide and euthanasia under John Finnis, an Australian legal scholar opposed to assisted suicide.\n\nIn \"The Future of Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia\", Gorsuch treats physician-assisted suicide and euthanasia as morally identical acts. The scope of the book is limited to intentional killing by private persons, avoiding the complexities of considering the issue alongside the death penalty and warfare. In the book, Gorsuch rejects commonly held views about autonomy, arguing that states should sometimes place \"paternalistic constraints on the choices of its citizens.\" He sharply criticizes judge Richard Posner of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, who wrote that government should not interfere with a person's decision to end their life. Gorsuch argues that Posner's view could require the legalization of consensual homicide and would lead to mass suicide pacts, duels, and organ sales. Gorsuch further characterized assisted suicide as, \"essentially a right to consensual homicide.\" He said that the U.S. should \"retain existing law [banning assisted suicide and euthanasia] on the basis that human life is fundamentally and inherently valuable, and that the intentional taking of human life by private persons is always wrong.\"\n\nOn April 4, 2017, Buzzfeed and \"Politico\" ran articles highlighting similar language occurring in \"The Future of Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia\" and an earlier law review article by Abigail Lawlis Kuzma, Indiana's deputy attorney general. Academic experts contacted by \"Politico\" \"differed in their assessment of what Gorsuch did, ranging from calling it a clear impropriety to mere sloppiness.\" Gorsuch's advisor at Oxford, John Finnis, stated, \"The allegation is entirely without foundation. The book is meticulous in its citation of primary sources. The allegation that the book is guilty of plagiarism because it does not cite secondary sources which draw on those same primary sources is, frankly, absurd.\" Kuzma stated, \"I have reviewed both passages and do not see an issue here, even though the language is similar. These passages are factual, not analytical in nature, framing both the technical legal and medical circumstances of the 'Baby/Infant Doe' case that occurred in 1982.\" Noah Feldman, a Harvard Law professor, thought that Gorsuch had committed \"minor plagiarism\", that deserved \"no more punishment than the embarrassment attendant on its revelation.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8736223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8736223", "title": "Zellige", "text": "Zellige\n\nZellige (; ; also zelige or zellij) is mosaic tilework made from individually chiseled geometric tiles set into a plaster base. This form of Islamic art is one of the main characteristics of Moroccan architecture. It consists of geometrically patterned mosaics, used to ornament walls, ceilings, fountains, floors, pools and tables.\n\nThe Moorish art of zellige flourished during the Hispano-Moresque period (Azulejo) of the Maghreb and the area known as Al-Andalus (modern day Spain) between 711-1492. The technique was highly developed during the Nasrid dynasty and Merinid dynasty who gave it more importance around the 14th century and introduced blue, green and yellow colours. Red was added in the 17th century. The old enamels with the natural colours were used until the beginning of the 20th century and the colours had probably not evolved much since the period of Merinids. The cities of Fes and Meknes in Morocco, remain the centers of this art.\n\nPatrons of the art used zellige historically to decorate their homes as a statement of luxury and the sophistication of the inhabitants. Zellige is typically a series of patterns utilizing colourful geometric patterns. This framework of expression arose from the need of Islamic artists to create spatial decorations that avoided depictions of living things, consistent with the teachings of Islamic law.\n\nFez and Meknes in Morocco are still the production centers for zellige tiles due to the Miocene grey clay of Fez. The clay from this region is primarily composed of Kaolinite. For Fez and Meknes, the clay composition is 2-56% clay minerals, calcite 3-29%. Meriam El Ouahabi states that:\n\nAs the colour palette of the zellige tiles increased over the centuries, it became possible to multiply the compositions \"ad infinitum\". The most current form of the zellige is a square. Other forms are possible: the octagon combined with a cabochon, a star, a cross, etc. It is then moulded with a thickness of approximately 2 centimetres. There are simple squares of 10 by 10 centimeters or with the corners cut to be combined with a coloured cabochon. To pave an area, bejmat, a paving stone of 15 by 5 centimetres approximately and 2 centimetres thick, can also be used.\n\n\"An encyclopedia could not contain the full array of complex, often individually varied patterns and the individually shaped, hand-cut tesserae, or furmah, found in zillij work. Star-based patterns are identified by their number of points—'itnashari for 12, 'ishrini for 20, arba' wa 'ishrini for 24 and so on, but they are not necessarily named with exactitude. The so-called khamsini, for 50 points, and mi'ini, for 100, actually consist of 48 and 96 points respectively, because geometry requires that the number of points of any star in this sequence be divisible by six. (There are also sequences based on five and on eight.) Within a single star pattern, variations abound—by the mix of colors, the size of the furmah, and the complexity and size of interspacing elements such as strapping, braids, or \"lanterns.\" And then there are all the non-star patterns— honeycombs, webs, steps and shoulders, and checkerboards. The Alhambra's interlocking zillij patterns were reportedly a source of inspiration for the tessellations of modern Dutch artist M.C. Escher.\"\n\nThemes often employ Kufic script, as it fits well with the geometry of the mosaic tiles, and patterns often culminate centrally in the Rub El Hizb. The tessellations in the mosaics are currently of interest in academic research in the mathematics of art.\n\nThese studies require expertise not only in the fields of mathematics, art and art history, but also of computer science, computer modelling and software engineering, all used for the Hassan II Mosque.\nIslamic decoration and craftsmanship had a significant influence on Western art when Venetian merchants brought goods of many types back to Italy from the 14th century onwards.\n\nZellige making is considered an art in itself. The art is transmitted from generation to generation by \"maâlems\" (master craftsmen). A long training starts at childhood to implant the required skills.\n\nAssiduous attention to detail is needed when creating zellige. The small shapes (cut according to a precise radius gauge), painted and enamel covered pieces are then assembled in a geometrical structure as in a puzzle to form the completed mosaic. The process has not varied for a millennium, though conception and design has started using new technologies such as data processing.\n\n\n\n"}
