{"id": "49475544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49475544", "title": "Aarón Castellanos", "text": "Aarón Castellanos\n\nAarón Castellanos (August 8, 1799 – April 1, 1880) was an Argentine businessman and military commander. He founded the city of Esperanza in the Santa Fe Province. A locality bearing his name, is also named after him.\n"}
{"id": "6028337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6028337", "title": "Alfred Edments", "text": "Alfred Edments\n\nAlfred Edments (17 October 1853 – 13 July 1909) was a merchant and philanthropist in Australia.\n\nEdments was born in London, the son of James Edments, a labourer, and his wife Ann, \"née\" Lyons. He had only a primary education and at an early age began to work for a firm of cork merchants.\n\nHe left for Australia at the age of 19 and arrived at Sydney. He obtained a position, saved a little money, began working as a peddler in a small way, and then opened a shop in Sydney where he sold goods by auction. Edments went to Melbourne in 1888 and started an auction room in Bourke Street, Melbourne. He also for a short period was a bookmaker, attending only the principal meetings, but found this did not suit his health and soon gave it up. He also gave up having auctions and opened a shop selling watches, clocks and fancy goods, which steadily prospered. He visited England in 1892 to arrange for direct buying, and after trying various locations, finally settled his place of business at 309-311 Bourke Street, Melbourne, in 1895.\n\nThe business grew and Edments began to open branches in the suburbs and in Hobart, Tasmania. He kept a close watch on every detail, thoroughly trained his staff, and treated them with great consideration.\n\nEvery employee had a fortnight's holiday on full pay, and when ill, Edments continued to pay their salaries and often their medical fees.\n\nHe himself worked very hard and his health began to cause anxiety when he was only in his early forties. He paid frequent visits to England and in 1898 opened a London office. For the last six months of his life he was compelled to manage his business from his home. Edments died at Melbourne on 13 July 1909 of heart disease. He married but had no children. At his death left a large proportion of his considerable fortune to charity via the Alfred Edments Trust. This in 1940 amounted to about £150,000 and about £6000 is distributed every year. The rest of his fortune was left to his niece E Dench who had no children and left her fortune at her death to Ewen Middlemiss estimated at the time to be $20 million.\n"}
{"id": "20386441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20386441", "title": "Alpart", "text": "Alpart\n\nAlumina Partners of Jamaica, also known as Alpart, is a company that owns and operates a bauxite refinery in Nain, Jamaica. Alpart was founded in 1969 as a joint venture by Kaiser Aluminum, Reynolds Aluminum, and Anaconda. Alpart exports 1.65 million tonnes of alumina overseas per year, and earned gross revenues of US$1.3 billion in 2007. As of 2011, previous partner Hydro divested its 35% stake to Rusal which assumed 100% stake in Alpart, wholly owned by RusAl the refinery has paused operations due to the company's alumina product experiencing a drastic 60 per cent price reversal since July 2008 with the temporary shutdown allowing the plant to be prepared for future developments that may see the industry emerging from the economic downturns it has faced.\n\nIn 2016, UC Rusal sold 100% stake of the Alumina Partners of Jamaica (‘Alpart’) to the Chinese state industrial group, JIUQUAN IRON & STEEL (GROUP) Co. Ltd. (‘JISCO’).\n\nalpart\n"}
{"id": "18412073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18412073", "title": "American Publishers Association", "text": "American Publishers Association\n\nAmerican Publishers Association (APA) was created in 1901 to maintain the price of copyright books in the American market.\n\nIn 1913, the New York Supreme court ruled in favor of R. H Macy's & Co. vs American Publishers Association, saying Macy's was entitled to damages of $140,000.\n\nIts founding members were Charles Scribner as President, Gen. Alexander C. McClurg and George Mifflin as Vice Presidents, George Platt Brett, Sr., of Macmillan Publishers as Secretary, and G. B. M. Harvey, of Harper Brothers, as treasurer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24480758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24480758", "title": "Anatol Șalaru", "text": "Anatol Șalaru\n\nAnatol Şalaru (born 7 February 1962, Văratic, Rîșcani) is a Moldovan politician. He was the Transport and Road Infrastructure Minister in the First Filat Cabinet and the Second Filat Cabinet. As of 2015, he is the Defense Minister in the Streleț Cabinet, until 27 December 2016, when he was removed from office by the current President of the Republic of Moldova, Igor Dodon, at the request of the leader of the Liberal Party, Mihai Ghimpu.\n\nIn 1993 Șalaru created the Party of Reform and was the chairman of the party until 1997. The Party of Reform later became the Liberal Party and Șalaru remains party vice-president.\n\nHe used to work for Ascom Group in Chișinău, Turkmenistan and Iraq.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "22680710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22680710", "title": "Andrew Harper's Hideaway Report", "text": "Andrew Harper's Hideaway Report\n\nAndrew Harper's Hideaway Report is a monthly newsletter that reviews luxury hotels and resorts, typically smaller, more individual ventures. The first issue appeared in 1979. \"Andrew Harper,\" a pseudonym, was concerned about the influence of commercial considerations on travel reviews, so he travels anonymously and pays his own expenses. Each year, the company conducts a survey of subscribers' favorite small hotels. Andrew Harper, LLC employs 80 full-time staff with offices in Austin, Chicago, and New York. It also operates a luxury travel agency.\n\n"}
{"id": "3372357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3372357", "title": "Bertolt Flick", "text": "Bertolt Flick\n\nBertolt Martin Flick (born 1964, Germany) is a German businessman, the former president and CEO of airBaltic airline. \n\nHe has a law degree from the University of Heidelberg, Germany. In 1995 Flick became a member of airBaltic's Supervisory Board and in 1999 he was elected the Chairman of the Board. Between 2002 and 2011, he was the president and CEO of the company. \n\nOn January 30, 2009 Flick purchased a 47.2% stake in airBaltic from Scandinavian Airlines.\n\nHe became the president of the Frankfurt-am-Main based charter airline XL Airways in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "4041721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4041721", "title": "Bill Black (businessman)", "text": "Bill Black (businessman)\n\nWilliam \"Bill\" Black, C.M. (born 1950) is a Canadian business leader.\n\nBorn in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Black graduated from the Halifax Grammar School. He then graduated from Dalhousie University with two degrees at age 19, and then went on to complete his actuarial training in 1974. \n\nHe started working for Maritime Life, a company that was co-founded by his great-grandfather, William Anderson Black, in 1922. Black entered senior management at 25, and eventually became president and CEO. During his nine years as president, the company saw continuous expansion and record profits with the number of jobs in Halifax more than doubling to over 1200. By 2004 the company had 3,000 employees and $15 billion in assets under management. Under his leadership, Maritime Life gained a solid reputation for employee relations and appearing every year among the leaders in the \"Report on Business\" list of top 50 employers in Canada. When Maritime's parent company, John Hancock Financial, was purchased by Manulife, Black resigned rather than move to Ontario.\n\nHis board experience includes being Chair at the Halifax Chamber of Commerce, IWK Health Centre, Symphony Nova Scotia, and the Canadian Centre for Ethics in Public Affairs. He was Lead Director of the Bank of Canada from 2008–2012. He has also been on the board of Dalhousie University (Vice-chair), Standard Life of Canada (Deputy Chair), and Nova Scotia Business Inc. He chaired a summit on the future of economic development in Halifax, and in 2008 chaired the panel reviewing pension legislation and regulation in the Province of Nova Scotia.\n\nHe currently sits on the boards of Shaw Group and the Global Risk Institute. In July 2015 he was appointed chair-designate of the Capital Markets Regulatory Authority. He has led a leadership seminar for senior executives since 2006 and is a regular columnist in the Halifax Chronicle Herald on public policy issues.\n\nHe ran in the leadership race for the Progressive Conservative Association of Nova Scotia in 2006, finishing second to Rodney MacDonald. Prior to seeking the leadership, Black was nominated as the Progressive Conservative candidate for Halifax Citadel. In the 2006 election, he was defeated, losing to New Democrat Leonard Preyra by 330 votes.\n\nIn 2015, he was named a Member of the Order of Canada.\n"}
{"id": "14863591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14863591", "title": "Business.gov", "text": "Business.gov\n\nBusiness.gov is sponsored by the U.S. Small Business Administration to provide small business owners with access to federal, state and local government resources from a single access point. \n\nBusiness.gov was launched in 1997 as the U.S. Business Advisor by the National Technical Information Service of the United States Department of Commerce. The U.S. Business Advisor aimed to improve interaction between businesses and government agencies by providing a single resource for finding tools, how-to guides, frequently asked questions, current items of interest, and information on doing transactions with the federal government.\n\nBusiness.gov was re-launched in May 2004 as a Presidential E-Government Initiative SBA assumed management oversight of Business.gov in partnership with 21 other federal agencies. This partnership, known as the Business Gateway, established Business.gov as the single access point to government services that help the nation’s businesses with their operations. The content of the site was primarily aimed at starting, growing, and managing a small business, with an emphasis on government assistance programs and services available from SBA and other federal agencies.\n\nBusiness Gateway officially re-launched Business.gov on October 12, 2006. as a web portal targeted at helping small and medium-sized businesses find, understand and comply with government regulations. The website has since evolved to provide guidance and resources for all aspects of starting and running a business.\n\nThe Business.gov Community launched in March, 2009 as an interactive extension of the website, creating a forum for business owners to interact with government, industry experts and each other through discussion boards, idea exchanges and blog articles.\n\nBusiness.gov provides a platform for online services—feature articles, interactive tools and a specialized, Google-based search engine—that help small businesses reduce significant regulatory burdens.\n\nAll businesses, large or small, are subject to legal and regulatory burdens. Small businesses face the greatest burden of all. Research conducted and documented by the U.S. Small Business Administration, Office of Advocacy revealed the following:\n\nThe Small Business Paperwork Relief Act (SBPRA) of 2002 requires federal agencies to designate one point of contact to act as a liaison between the agency and small business concerns. SBPRA also requires the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), in conjunction with the Small Business Administration, to publish on the Internet a list of compliance assistance resources available at Federal agencies for small businesses. In accordance with the SBPRA, Business.gov has published a Federal Compliance Contacts page which gives the names, phone numbers and e-mail addresses of individuals at federal agencies that can help small business answer regulatory and legal questions. Business.gov also provides guidance through links to federal, state and local agency resources that help small businesses meet their regulatory requirements.\n\nBusiness.gov offers a variety of resources that address each phase of a business life cycle from preparing to launch a business to financing growth to ensuring compliance with federal, state and local regulations. Authoritative information is provided through links to other government agencies, fact sheets, guidelines, forms, interactive tools, training resources, and compliance experts.\n\nBusiness.gov covers a wide variety of business topics and industries. Additionally, there are specific guides for self-employed and home-based businesses; resources for women, veteran and minority business owners; and a portal for non-profits.\n\nBusiness.gov includes federal, state and local government information so business owners don’t have to know which level government to go to in order to obtain licenses and permits and comply with other laws and regulations. The State & Local guides provide access to programs and services that help small business owners start and expand their operations while complying with state and local laws.\n\nBusiness.gov provides direct line contacts to federal, state and local personnel who are available by phone or e-mail to answer questions about complying with government regulations.\n\nBusiness.gov provides links to FAQ databases from across the federal government in which regulatory agencies provide answers to common business issues. Business.gov's FAQ Directory is organized by topical area making it easier to find information relevant to a user's specific business area.\n\nThe Business.gov Small Business Guide to Government Contracting provides links to information that helps small to medium sized business understanding how to contract with the federal government and locate business opportunities.\n\nThe Business.gov search engine uses Custom Search Engine Business Edition, filtering only federal, state and local government websites and pages that are relevant to small business owners.\n\n\"Permit Me\" is an interactive search tool that provides a single place for business owners to obtain licenses, permits and registrations needed to run their businesses. Currently, Permit Me only includes information on general licensing requirements and information on ten different business types.\n\nThe Loans & Grants Search Tool is an interactive search tool that provides a list of financing programs for which a small business may qualify.\n\nThe Business.gov Toolkit is a \"gadget\" that business owners or small business organizations can place on their websites or iGoogle homepages to provide instant access to essential Business.gov resources without leaving their site.\n\nThe Business.gov Partners Program works with industry, trade associations and other government agencies to contribute their expertise and authoritative resources to Business.gov. Partners also use the site's tools and features as a platform for sharing information and to facilitate outreach and collaboration.\n\nBusiness.gov served as a model for other government websites by fulfilling the goals of President George W. Bush's 2001 President's Management Agenda. The site continues to deliver on the current Administration’s Open Government Initiative under President Barack Obama and is showcased on the White House Open Government Innovations Gallery.\n\nBusiness.gov strictly adheres to all requirements and guidelines for Federal websites, including those established by the E-Government Act of 2002, the U.S. Office of Management and Budget's (OMB) Policies for Federal Public Websites, and Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 regarding website accessibility. The site also strictly follows requirements of the Privacy Act, the Federal Information Security Management Act, and other privacy and security requirements.\n\n"}
{"id": "2920684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2920684", "title": "Chief analytics officer", "text": "Chief analytics officer\n\nChief analytics officer (CAO) is a job title for the senior manager responsible for the analysis of data within an organization, such as a listed company or an educational institution. The CAO often reports to the chief executive officer.\n\nNot many companies currently have the role of Chief Analytics Officer (CAO) defined within their existing c-suite. However this is a fast emerging position that would be pivotal in massive transformation - in the way companies take their business decisions. CAOs not only bring strong data science backed actionable insights to the table, but also own the resulting 'ROI'/'Impact' on both top line and bottom line numbers.\n\nThis position, along with that of chief information officer has risen to prominence due to the rise in information technology and data acquisition. The two positions are similar in that both deal with information, but the CIO focuses on the infrastructure required for maintaining and communicating information while the CAO focuses on the infrastructure required for generating and analyzing information. A similar position is that of the chief data officer (CDO); while the CDO focuses on data processing and maintenance, the CAO focuses on providing input into operational decisions on the basis of the analysis. As such, the CAO requires experience in statistical analysis and marketing, finance, or operations. The CAO may be a member of the board of directors of the organization, but this is dependent on the type of organization.\n\nNo specific qualification is typical of CAOs in general. Many have advanced degrees in mathematics, statistics, economics, or econometrics but this is by no means universal. Many were analysts in the past.\n\nChanging role of the Chief Data Officer and growth in the Chief Analytics Office\n\nResearch* indicates that First Generation CDOs are typically responsible for the following:\n\n\nIn addition to these key responsibilities, the First Generation CDO is concerned with communicating his/her value to the organisation, evangelising the importance of data and building business processes to ensure efficient workflows.\n\nThese are all the critical, foundation-building baby steps that need to be taken before moving into the next phase or generation of CDO-ship. The CDO is producing step-changes within the organisation's data architecture and usage. Change is big but perhaps does not deliver significant business value.\n\nSecond Generation CDOs and the shift into a CAO\n\nOur research has uncovered that, in the second phase, there is almost a shift away from being a CDO toward being a Chief Analytics Officer. The ultimate end goal for data in an organisation is to have the ability to use it to make good decisions in real time.\n\nIt's based on this that I assess the Second Generation CDO as being increasingly responsible for, and involved with, advanced business analytics. The first phase was all about getting data in shape for it to be utilised accurately across the business.\n\nIt's at this point where the CDO is involved in the optimisation and transformation of the business. \nInnovation through data!\n\nThe Second Generation CDO becomes an integral part of eking out the hard-fought percentages of business improvement and profitability. Innovation across the organisation has come to rely on data. Product innovation takes a look at how the product is performing, who buys it, how it is manufactured etc. to evolve it and keep its competitive edge. None of this could be done without access to good quality data in real time - or at least in a short space of time.\n\nA recent study shows an increasing number of CDO's at the forefront of their company's digital transformation, most likely because data and analytics play such a critical role in digitising a business, and so as a result many Chief Data Officers have moved in Chief Digital Officer roles.\n\nWhat does the Future Look Like?\n\nIt's not easy to predict what the next generation will look like and how they'll act. I don't think Facebook anticipated that the current youngest generation would not be big users of the service.\n\nData Digest points that out by the development of the CDO - and for that matter the CAO and the Chief Digital Officer. Could they all blend into one? Or will they be obsolete in a few years and replaced with a new emerging C-suite?\n\nFor now, we'll keep focused on understanding the different needs of the First Generation and Second Generation of CDOs to ensure we can provide relevant information and networks. It is likely that the next generation will only emerge in 4–5 years time.\n"}
{"id": "7720374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720374", "title": "Compliance and ethics program", "text": "Compliance and ethics program\n\nSince about 1970, several major business and government excesses were seen in the United States to generate subsequent legal, public and political reaction. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act is perhaps the legislation with the most significant influence in the development of ethics and compliance programs; similar ideas are encoded in the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations, and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines.\n\nThe Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) marked the early beginnings of compliance programs in the United States. In the mid-1970s, United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) investigations discovered that a significant number of American companies participated in bribery overseas. “Over 400 U.S. Companies admitted to making questionable or illegal payments to foreign government officials, politicians and political parties.” (United States Department of Justice 2006) One of the most infamous cases of its time was the admission by a Lockheed executive, to the Multinational Corporations Subcommittee of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, that Lockheed had paid bribes in the amount of $22 million to Japanese government officials in the course of trying to sell its aircraft. This revelation came on the heels of the U.S. Government providing Lockheed with a $250 million emergency loan guarantee (Hishikawa 2003).\n\nIn an effort to restore faith in American business, in December 1977 the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act was signed into law. This anti-bribery provision makes it “unlawful for a U.S. person, and certain foreign issuers of securities, to make a corrupt payment to a foreign official for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business for or with, or directing business to, any person.” (United States Department of Justice 2006) The law also requires publicly traded companies “to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent the company’s transactions. Additionally, it requires these companies to have an adequate systems of internal accounting controls.” (United States Department of Justice 2006)\n\nFollowing the passage of the FCPA, in 1988, the Congress became concerned that American companies were operating at a disadvantage because their foreign counterparts were, as a matter of practice, paying bribes to foreign officials and deducting those bribes as business expenses on their taxes. (United States Department of Justice 2006) Subsequently, the Executive Branch began negotiations with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), a 34-member nation coalition consisting of the United States and 33 other countries, to enact legislation similar to FCPA. In 1997, the OCED signed the Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions. (http://www.oecd.org/document/21/0,2340,en_2649_34859_2017813_1_1_1_1,00.html)\n\nThis regulation requires member nations to designate the payment of bribes to foreign offices as a crime and to follow the rules and regulations that govern bribery in international transactions. The U.S. ratified this convention and enacted implementing legislation in 1998. At this time, the FCPA was amended to include territorial jurisdiction over foreign companies and nationals. A foreign company or person is now subject to the FCPA, if the company or person either directly or indirectly through agents, engages in acts which further the facilitation of corrupt payments taking place within the territory of the United States.\n\nIn response to the FCPA and its requirement to implement internal control programs, in 1985 a private-sector initiative was formed called the National Committee on Fraudulent Financial Reporting (commonly known as the Treadway Commission). This Commission recommended that its organizational sponsors work together to develop guidance on internal controls. Subsequently, the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) was formed, and in conjunction with the CPA firm Coopers & Lybrand, COSO authored and published in 1992 the “Internal Control-Integrated Framework\". This framework has become the de facto standard in the accounting industry for auditing, evaluating and monitoring internal control systems.\n\nThe COSO Internal Control-Integrated Framework is now widely used by most organizations as the basis for “establishing and maintaining an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting” ( 15 USC § 7262) and for the assessment of control effectiveness under section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley.\n\nIn 1984 Congress passed the Sentencing Reform Act, which created a set of mandatory federal sentencing guidelines (Campbell & Bemporad 2006). As part of the Act, the United States Sentencing Commission was formed and delegated the responsibility “to provide “certainty” and “fairness” in sentencing, avoiding “unwarranted sentencing disparities” while “maintaining sufficient flexibility to permit individualized sentencing when warranted by mitigating or aggravating factors (Campbell & Bemporad 2006).”\n\nOn May 1, 1991, as an extension of the Sentencing Reform Act, the United States Sentencing Commission submitted to Congress the Federal Sentencing Guidelines for Organizations] (FSGO), a set of standards that govern the sentences federal judges impose on organizations convicted of federal crimes. Enacted on November 1, 1991, core to the guidelines was the Commission’s intent to “prevent and deter organizational wrongdoing” through its design of the organizational sentencing guidelines. These guidelines describe the elements of an organization’s compliance and ethics program that are required to be considered for eligibility for a reduced sentence if convicted. In general, the FSGO require an organization to establish standards to guide its employees and agents. These standards must reflect government regulations and industry standards and apply to almost all types of organizations including corporations, partnerships, unions, non-profit organizations and trusts.\n\nIn 2004, the United States Sentencing Commission voted to amend its existing organization guidelines to make the criteria for an effective compliance and ethics program more stringent. Two major standards were identified in the amended guidelines. The amended guidelines stated the need for directors and executives to take an active role in the management of its compliance and ethics program and the importance of promoting an organizational culture that is compliant with the law and demonstrates ethical culture. The amended guidelines outline minimum requirements for an effective compliance and ethics program and the amended FSGO has become synonymous with an effective compliance program.\n\nThe FCPA, Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines represent just a fraction of the standards and requirements organizations need to consider today when developing and implementing their compliance programs. “Since the passage of SOX, the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), NASDAQ, and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), have all proposed and implemented new rules relating to compliance programs (Martin 2004).” Organizations today are increasingly accountable to mandated laws, regulations and standards on a number of dimensions, which include geographical/regional considerations, as well as industry and functional discipline concerns. These regulations and standards apply to a variety of financial and non-financial areas. Adding to this complexity are the “voluntary” boundaries, which organizations have individually established such as organizational commitments, values, and contractual obligations. As a result of these dynamics, organizations at the very core of their business strategy need to establish the capacity and the capability to effectively address the conditions mandated by these external requirements and internally generated operating principles while still meeting their business objectives.\n\nHistory set the tone for increasing regulations and rising standards. Over time, organizations will need to be more proactive in anticipating and addressing these considerations while simultaneously protecting and building the enterprise. More and more organizations will need to translate, integrate and simplify these various standards and requirements into a cohesive approach.\n\nDesigning an effective compliance and ethics program requires implementing a detailed plan that will make sure the business achieves their ethics objectives. The organization must have ways of managing, evaluating, and controlling business ethics and compliance programs. There are five items which can affect the success of the compliance and ethics program: (1) the content of the company's code of ethics, (2) the frequency of communication regarding the ethical code and program, (3) the quality of communication, (4) senior management's ability to successfully incorporate ethics into the organization, (5) and local management's ability to do the same.\n\nCompliance and ethics program with regulatory requirements and the organization’s own policies are a critical component of effective risk management. An organizations program is recommended to include monitoring and auditing systems that allow detection of criminal and other improper context to be found easily. Maintaining the compliance and ethics program is one of the most important ways for an organization to maintain its ethical health, support its long-term prosperity, and preserve and promote its values.\n\nA compliance and ethics program supports the organization’s business objectives, identifies the boundaries of legal and ethical behavior, and establishes a system to alert management when the organization is getting close to (or crossing) a boundary or approaching an obstacle that prevents the achievement of a business objective.\n\nManagement should continuously improve its compliance and ethics program. This will enable it to better prevent, detect, and respond to similar misfeasance and/or malfeasance in the future.\n\nThe compliance and ethics program should strive to deliver tangible benefits and outcomes to the organization. Every organization is unique and has its own objectives. As such, several objectives of the compliance and ethics program will be unique as well. There are a few universal program outcomes/objectives that a compliance and ethics capability should deliver. These include an enhanced culture of trust, accountability and integrity; prevention of noncompliance, preparation for when (not “if”) noncompliance occurs, protection (to the extent possible) from negative consequences, detection of noncompliance, response to noncompliance and improvement of the program to better prevent, protect, prepare, detect and respond to noncompliance.\n\nAn important aspect of a high-performing program, and one that cannot be overstated, is enhancing an ethical culture. A strong ethical culture that provides important benefits would including a “safety net” for when formal controls are weak or absent, and an open environment of trust, ingredients that help drive overall workforce productivity.\n\nA well-designed compliance and ethics program is only half the picture. Critical to its success and its ability to meet the challenges of constant change, increasing complexity, rapidly evolving threats, the need for continuous improvement requires organizations to have the commitment of both senior management and the board, adequate authorization and funding, the appropriate tools to facilitate measurement and rolling-up information, comprehensive training on the measurement process and an early socialization of approach.\n\nImplementation is often the most difficult aspect of any program. This is the juncture where most failure occurs. However, if executed well, it can represent the biggest opportunity for positive influence on the organization’s performance and culture.\n\nThe engaged involvement of key stakeholders is critical to a successful implementation or major enhancement of a compliance and ethics program, i.e. the dialogue and agreement up front, by all the major parties, regarding the objectives, goals, and overall purpose of the program will be critical to the project’s eventual impact. By working together, compliance and ethics officers, executive management, and the board can help ensure a compliance and ethics program not only contributes to the improvement of the organization’s governance practices but the success of its company’s strategy as well.\n\nOne of most important conditions for an ethics program to be effectively implemented is the existence of a feeling of trust from the employees toward the organization. Organizations that present high levels of misconduct will experience lack of trust from its employees, which possible will cause high turnover among its workforce.\n\nIntegrate compliance and ethics - Address the “letter of the law” while promoting the “spirit of the law”. For some companies this means making a breach of company policy as serious as breaching laws, resulting in “internal” standards being as important as ‘mandatory’ standards.\n\nEmbed compliance and ethics risk management processes into the business - Organizations must systematically assess and prioritize present and emerging compliance and ethics risks. Such analysis should take into account the organization’s culture, compliance and ethics history, as well as industry issues. Business processes should incorporate compliance and ethics program needs. Boards should routinely discuss these risks, and how they are addressed, with management.\n\nDemonstrate leadership - The board should ensure senior management consistently communicates and models the organization’s values and behavioral expectations identified in the compliance and ethics program.\n\nRequire accountability and ownership - In order to have the compliance and ethics program “make a difference”, it should foster a corporate culture that places responsibility on individuals for their actions and motivates everyone. The board and management should ensure employees have appropriate training and information and should participate in such training themselves.\n\nProvide an open culture - Issues and problems should be, and in some cases are, required by law to be investigated and proactively managed to resolution. Unethical or illegal behavior should be addressed promptly. Employees must be required to raise and resolve violations of compliance or ethics standards. To do so, they must feel confident that they can take action without fear of retaliation. Such fears have been reduced, but not eliminated, with the introduction of the “whistleblower” protections of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Canadian equivalents. The board should inquire of management the steps they are taking to create this open culture.\n\nMeasure performance and results - Compliance and ethics processes and results should be monitored and measured. Objective data should support evaluations that are more subjective. Evaluation results should provide the basis for continually improving the program.\n\nBy using accurate, timely data on the organization’s performance, managers know whether they are moving the entity closer to its objectives. Measuring compliance and ethics program performance help organizations gauge their improvement and learn whether the company's tactics are contributing to the success of the company's strategy. Keeping the board informed is a critical activity and robust performance reporting facilitates that important effort too. An organization’s compliance and ethics program should be measured like any other critical capability.\n\nThere are numerous benefits and challenges to measuring the performance of a program. A well-known maxim is \"what gets measured gets done.” The compliance and ethics program and capability is no different.\n\nThe Open Compliance and Ethics Group, OCEG, a non-profit organization that provides a performance framework for integrating governance, compliance, risk management and culture, has developed a Measurement and Metrics Guide (MMG) for assisting in measuring and reporting on the performance of compliance and ethics programs. This measurement platform advocates that program objectives be aligned with and contribute to the enterprise objectives in a tangible way. In order to achieve desired program outcomes, an organization should design processes and practices that effectively measure program dimensions on three key dimensions: effectiveness, efficiency and responsiveness.\n\n\n\nA solid measurement system and approach should be implemented that embodies these principles: \nKey metrics and indicators should be specific/simple, measurable, actionable, relevant and timely.\n\nPerformance measurement system should be reviewed and improved on an ongoing basis. It is only by gaining experience measuring performance that the organization can really refine and improve the system.\n\nCompliance risk is the current and prospective risk to earnings or capital arising from violations of, or nonconformance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, internal policies, and procedures, or ethical standards. Compliance risk also arises in situations where the laws or rules governing certain bank products or activities of the Bank’s clients may be ambiguous or untested. This risk exposes the institution to fines, civil money penalties, payment of damages, and the voiding of contracts. Compliance risk can lead to diminished reputation, reduced franchise value, limited business opportunities, reduced expansion potential, and an inability to enforce contracts.\n\nGovernance, Risk Management, and Compliance (GRC) management capability is the solution to addressing increasing stakeholder expectations. Solid financial results are no longer sufficient. Stakeholders are demanding more. They want to know about non-financial results and the intangibles that will ensure financial growth. They want increased reporting and transparency and insight into an organization’s strategy, risks, and operations along with an understanding of the manner in which business is conducted. As with the quality movement of the mid-1980s to early 1990s, these stakeholder demands are becoming baseline expectations.\n\nCompliance and ethics practices can no longer be viewed in isolation of the rest of the organization, as some function off to the side to keep an organization out of jail. It must become part of the overall business strategy and operations, pervasive throughout the entire organization. Ultimately, taking this integrated approach will lead to better overall performance and compliance will become less of a burden on the business.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "591542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=591542", "title": "Corvée", "text": "Corvée\n\nCorvée () is a form of unpaid, unfree labour, which is intermittent in nature and which lasts limited periods of time: typically only a certain number of days' work each year.\n\nStatute labour is a corvée imposed by a state for the purposes of public works. As such it represents a form of levy (taxation). Unlike other forms of levy, such as a tithe, a corvée does not require the population to have land, crops or cash. It was thus favored in historical economies in which barter was more common than cash transactions or circulating money was in short supply.\n\nThe obligation for tenant farmers to perform corvée work for landlords on private landed estates was widespread throughout history before the Industrial Revolution. The term is most typically used in reference to medieval and early modern Europe, where work was often expected by a feudal landowner (of their vassals), or by a monarch of their subjects. However, the application of the term is not limited to that time or place; corvée has existed in modern and ancient Egypt, ancient Israel under Solomon, ancient Rome, China and Japan, everywhere in continental Europe, the Incan civilization, Haiti under Henri Christophe and under American occupation (1915–1934), and Portugal's African colonies until the mid-1960s. Forms of statute labour officially existed until the early twentieth century in Canada and the United States.\n\nThe word \"corvée\" itself has its origins in Rome, and reached the English language via France. In the Late Roman Empire the citizens performed opera publica in lieu of paying taxes; often it consisted of road and bridge work. Roman landlords could also demand a number of days' labour from their tenants, and also from the freedmen; in the latter case the work was called \"opera officialis\". In Medieval Europe, the tasks that serfs or villeins were required to perform on a yearly basis for their lords were called \"opera riga\". Plowing and harvesting were principal activities to which this work was applied. In times of need, the lord could demand additional work called \"opera corrogata\" (Latin \"corrogare\", \"to requisition\"). This term evolved into \"coroatae\", then \"corveiae\", and finally \"corvée\", and the meaning broadened to encompass both the regular and exceptional tasks. This Medieval agricultural corvée was not entirely unpaid: by custom the workers could expect small payments, often in the form of food and drink consumed on the spot. Corvée sometimes included military conscription, and the term is also occasionally used in a slightly divergent sense to mean forced requisition of military supplies; this most often took the form of \"cartage\", a lord's right to demand wagons for military transport.\n\nBecause corvée labour for agriculture tended to be demanded by the lord at exactly the same times that the peasants needed to attend to their own plots – e.g. planting and harvest – the corvée was an object of serious resentment. By the 16th century its use in agricultural setting was on the wane; it became increasingly replaced by money payments for labour. It nevertheless persisted in many areas of Europe until the French Revolution and beyond. The word survives in modern usage, meaning any kind of \"inevitable or disagreeable chore\".\n\nCorvée labour was essential in the feudal economic system of the Habsburg monarchy – later Austrian Empire – and most German states that have belonged to the Holy Roman Empire. Farmers and peasants were obliged to do hard agricultural work for their nobility. When a cash economy became established, the duty was gradually replaced by the duty to pay taxes.\n\nAfter the Thirty Years' War, the demands for corvée labour grew too high and the system became dysfunctional. The official decline of corvée is linked to the abolition of serfdom by Joseph II, Holy Roman Emperor and Habsburg ruler, in 1781. Corvée labour continued to exist, however, and was only abolished during the revolutions of 1848, along with the legal inequality between the nobility and common people.\n\nBohemia (or Czech lands) were a part of the Holy Roman Empire as well as the Habsburg monarchy and corvée labour itself was called \"robota\" in Czech. In Russian and other Slavic languages, \"robota\" denotes any work but in Czech, it specifically refers to unpaid unfree work, corvée labour, serf labor, or drudgery. The Czech word was imported to a part of Germany where corvée labour was known as Robath, and into Hungarian as \"robot\".\n\nThe word \"robota\" turned out to be optimal for Czech writer Karel Čapek who, after a recommendation by his brother Josef Čapek, introduced the word \"robot\" for (originally anthropomorphic) machines that do unpaid work for their owners in his 1920 play R.U.R..\n\nFrom the Egyptian Old Kingdom (ca 2613 BC) onward, (the 4th Dynasty), corvée labour helped in 'government' projects; during the times of the Nile River floods, labour was used for construction projects such as pyramids, temples, quarries, canals, roads, and other works.\n\nThe 1350 BC Amarna letters correspondence, (mostly addressed to the Ancient Egyptian pharaoh), has one short letter, with the topic of corvée labour. Of the 382–Amarna letters, it is an example of an undamaged letter, from Biridiya of Megiddo, entitled: \"\"Furnishing corvée workers\".\" See: city Nuribta.\n\nIn later Egyptian times, during the Ptolemaic dynasty, Ptolemy V, in his Rosetta Stone Decree of 196 BC, listed 22 accomplishments for being honored and the ten rewards granted to him for his accomplishments. The last reward listed is his making of the Rosetta Stone, (the Decree of Memphis (Ptolemy V)), in three scripts, to be displayed to the public in the temples-(two near complete copies).\n\nOne of the shorter accomplishments listed near the middle of the list,\n\nThe statement implies it was a common practice.\n\nUntil the late 19th century, many of the Egyptian Public Works including the Suez Canal were built using corvée labour.\n\nCorvée labor in Egypt ended after 1882. Britain took control of Egypt in 1882 and opposed opposed forced labor on principle, but they postponed abolition until Egypt had paid off its foreign debts. It disappeared as Egypt modernised after 1860. During the 19th century the corvée had expanded into a national program. It was favoured for temporary projects such as building irrigation works and dams. However Nile Delta landowners replaced it with cheap temporary labor recruited from Upper Egypt. As a result, the corvée was used only in scattered locales, and even then there was peasant resistance. It disappeared by the 1890s.\n\nIn France the corvée existed until August 4, 1789, shortly after the beginning of the French Revolution, when it was abolished along with a number of other feudal privileges of the French landlords. In these later times it was directed mainly towards improving the roads. It was greatly resented, and is considered an important cause of the Revolution. Counterrevolution revived the corvée in France, in 1824, 1836, and 1871, under the name \"prestation\"; every able bodied man had to give three days' labour or its money equivalent in order to be allowed to vote. The corvée also continued to exist under the Seigneurial system in what had been New France, in British North America.\nIn 1866, during the French occupation of Mexico the French army under Marshal Bazaine set up the corvée to provide labor for public works in place of a system of fines.\n\nThe independent Kingdom of Haiti based at Cap-Haïtien under Henri Christophe imposed a corvée system of labor upon the common citizenry which was used for massive fortifications to protect against a French invasion. Plantation owners could pay the government and have laborers work for them instead. This enabled the Kingdom of Haiti to maintain a stronger economic structure than the Republic of Haiti based in Port-au-Prince in the South under Alexandre Pétion which had a system of agrarian reform distributing land to the laborers.\n\nAfter deploying to Haiti in 1915 as an expression of the Roosevelt Corollary to the Monroe Doctrine, the United States military enforced a corvée system of labor in the interest of making improvements to infrastructure. By official estimates, more than 3,000 Haitians died during this period.\n\nImperial China had a system of conscripting labour from the public, equated to the western corvée by many historians. Qin Shi Huang, the first emperor, and following dynasties imposed it for public works like the Great Wall, the Grand Canal, and the system of national roads and highways.\n\nHowever, as the imposition was exorbitant and punishment for failure draconian, Qin Shi Huang was resented by the people and criticized by many historians.\n\nCorvée-style labour called was found in pre-modern Japan. During the 1930s, it was common practice to import Corvée labourers from both China and Korea to work in coal mines. This practice continued until the end of World War II.\n\nFrance annexed Madagascar as a colony in the late 19th century. Governor-General Gallieni then implemented a hybrid corvée and poll tax, partly for revenue, partly for labour resources (the French had just abolished slavery there), and partly to move away from a subsistence economy; the last feature involved paying small amounts for the forced labour. This solution to problems typical of colonialism, and contemporary thinking behind it, are described in a 1938 work:\n\nThe system of forced labour otherwise known as \"polo y servicios\" evolved within the framework of the \"encomienda\" system, introduced into the South American colonies by the Spanish government. \"Polo y servicios\" in the Philippines refers to 40 days forced manual labour for men ranging 16 to 60 years of age; these workers built community structures such as churches. Exemption from \"polo\" was possible via paying the \"falla\" (corruption of the Spanish \"falta\", meaning \"absence\"), which was a daily fine of one and a half real. In 1884, the required tenure of labour was reduced to 15 days. The system was patterned after the Mexican \"repartimento\" selection for forced labour.\n\nIn Portugal's African colonies (e.g. Mozambique), the Native Labour Regulations of 1899 stated that all able bodied men must work for six months of every year, and that \"They have full liberty to choose the means through which to comply with this regulation, but if they do not comply in some way, the public authorities will force them to comply.\"\n\nAfricans engaged in subsistence agriculture on their own small plots were considered unemployed. The labour was sometimes paid, but in cases of rule violations it was sometimes not—as punishment. The state benefited from the use of the labour for farming and infrastructure, by high income taxes on those who found work with private employers, and by selling corvée labour to South Africa. This system of corvée labour, called \"chibalo\", was not abolished in Mozambique until 1962, and continued in some forms until the Carnation Revolution in 1974.\n\nIn Romania, the corvée was called \"clacă\". Karl Marx describes the corvée system of the Danubian Principalities as a pre-capitalist form of compulsory over-work. The labour of the peasant needed for his own maintenance is distinctly marked off from the work he supplies to the land-owner (the boyar, or \"boier\", in Romanian) as surplus labour. The 14 days of labour due to the land-owner – as prescribed by the code of the corvée in the \"Règlement organique\" – actually amounted to 42 days, because the working day was considered the time required for the production of an average daily product, \"and that average daily product is determined in so crafty a way that no Cyclops would be done with it in 24 hours.\" The code of the corvée was supposed to abolish serfdom, but it couldn't achieve anything in regard to this goal.\n\nA land reform took place in 1864, after the Danubian Principalities became unified and formed The United Principalities of Moldavia and Wallachia, which abolished the corvée and turned the peasants into free proprietors. The former owners were promised compensation, which was to be paid from a fund the peasants had to contribute to for 15 years. Besides the annual fee, the peasants also had to pay for the newly owned land, although at a price below market value. These debts made many peasants return to a life of semi-serfdom.\n\nIn the Russian Tsardom and the Russian Empire there were a number of permanent corvees called \" повинности\": carriage corvée (подводная повинность), coachman corvée (ямская повинность), lodging corvée (постоялая повинность), etc.\n\nIn the context of the history of Russia, the term \"corvée\" is also sometimes used to translate the terms \"barshchina\" () or \"boyarshchina\" (), which refer to the obligatory work that the Russian serfs performed for the \"pomeshchik\" (Russian landed nobility) on the pomeshchik's land. While no official government regulation to the extent of \"barshchina\" existed, a 1797 ukase by Paul I of Russia described a \"barshchina\" of three days a week as normal and sufficient for the landowner's needs.\n\nIn the Black Earth Region, 70% to 77% of the serfs performed \"barshchina\"; the rest paid levies (\"obrok\").\n\nIn Poland in the 1940s Junacy (Służba Pracy) was a system of unpaid labour in bad conditions (little food, etc.) where underage people were often tricked or pressed into slavery for months or years.\n\nCorvée was used in several states in North America especially for road maintenance and this practice persisted to some degree in the United States. Its popularity with local governments gradually waned after the American Revolution with the increasing development of the monetary economy. After the American Civil War, some Southern states, with money in short supply, commuted taxing their inhabitants with obligations in the form of labour for public works, or let them pay a fee or a little bit higher tax to avoid it. The system proved unsuccessful because of the poor quality of work; in 1894, the Virginia state supreme court ruled that corvée violated the state constitution, and in 1913 Alabama became among the last states to abolish it.\n\nThe government of Myanmar is well known for its use of the corvée and has defended the practice in its official newspapers.\n\nIn Bhutan, the \"\" calls for citizens to do work, such as dzong construction, in lieu of part of their tax obligation to the state.\n\nIn Rwanda, the centuries-old tradition of umuganda, or community labor, still continues, usually in the form of one Saturday a month when citizens are required to perform this work.\n\nThe Socialist Republic of Vietnam maintains corvée for females (ages 18–35) and males (ages 18–45) of 10 days yearly for public works at the discretion of the authorities. This is termed Labor duty ().\n\nThe British overseas territory of Pitcairn Island, which has a population of about 50 and no income or sales tax, has a system of \"public work\" whereby all able-bodied people are required to perform, when called upon, jobs such as road maintenance and repairs to public buildings.\n\nIn Venezuela, President Nicolás Maduro signed a decree in July 2016 that \"all workers from the public and private sector with enough physical capabilities and technical know-how be required to work in the agricultural sector for a 60-day period that can be extended for another 60 days 'if the circumstances require it.'\" \n\nSince the mid-late 19th century, most countries have restricted corvée labour to conscription (military or civilian service), or prison labour.\n\n"}
{"id": "3811212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3811212", "title": "Dispatch (logistics)", "text": "Dispatch (logistics)\n\nDispatch is a procedure for assigning employees (workers) or vehicles to customers. Industries that dispatch include taxicabs, couriers, emergency services, as well as home and commercial services such as maid services, plumbing, HVAC, pest control and electricians.\n\nWith vehicle dispatching, clients are matched to vehicles according to the order in which clients called and the proximity of vehicles to each client's pick-up location. Telephone operators take calls from clients, then either enter the client's information into a computer or write it down and give it to a dispatcher. In some cases, calls may be assigned a priority by the call-taker. Priority calls may jump the queue of pending calls. In the first scenario, a central computer then communicates with the mobile data terminal located in each vehicle (see computer assisted dispatch); in the second, the dispatcher communicates with the driver of each vehicle via two-way radio.\n\nWith home or commercial service dispatching, customers usually schedule services in advance and the dispatching occurs the morning of the scheduled service. Depending on the type of service, workers are dispatched individually or in teams of two or more. Dispatchers have to coordinate worker availability, skill, travel time and availability of parts. The skills required of a dispatcher are greatly enhanced with the use of computer dispatching software (see computer aided call handling).\n\nThe following are examples of manual systems used to track the status of resources in a dispatched fleet.\n\nCard systems employ a set of shelves with a slot for each unit in the dispatch fleet. Each vehicle or resource has a slot in the shelving system. In it, a card, like a time card used to track an employee's work hours, is stored. A time clock, similar to the one that stamps work hours on a time card, is used to stamp event times on each card. At the beginning of a work day, the resource's identifier or other information is handwritten on the card. Each time the resource's status changes, the card is punched in the time clock and a new status entry is handwritten on the card. The card collects a series of entries through the work shift.\n\nIn a tow truck example, the card might be labeled with the tow car's radio identifier, \"Downtown 6\" and may be labeled with the vehicle number or data about the capabilities of the specific tow car. It might give a weight capacity, show the unit as a flat bed or cradle snatcher, or mention the unit carries a can of Diesel fuel. The name of the staff on the car might be noted. At the start of a shift, the dispatcher would note the unit \"available\" and time stamp the card. At the assignment to a call, the call information would be written on the card and the card might be stamped at the moment the assignment is read to the tow car crew. The string of notes and time stamps allows dispatch staff to get a clear picture of the status of a small fleet.\n\nSome systems use shelving with red and green lights and a switch at the back of the card slot. If the resource's card is pushed all the way into the card slot, the switch is actuated and an indicator lamp turns red. This identifies the tow car whose card occupies that slot as not available, or assigned to a call. Leaving the card pulled partway out leaves the indicator green, showing the dispatcher that unit is available. Is anyone available? The lights are supposed to give the dispatch staff a snapshot of their resource situation.\n\nA major flaw of this system is that cards are inside shelves and trying to look at an entire set of cards to evaluate the overall situation requires the dispatcher to pull out every card, one at a time, and read it. If two or more resources are sent to the same call, the dispatcher has a lot of writing to do.\n\nPunched tag systems employ a set of pegs with each peg holding tags for one unit in the dispatch fleet. Each vehicle working the current shift has a peg with a tag describing the unit's current status. A time clock, similar to the one that stamps work hours on a time card, is used to stamp times on each tag. At the beginning of a work day, the resource's identifier may be posted above the peg. The unit's start time is stamped and their status is written on the tag. Each time the resource's status changes, a new tag is written and the tag is time stamped in order to log the time the unit's status changed. The peg collects a stack of tags through the work shift.\n\nIn a tow truck example, the peg might be labeled with the tow car's radio identifier, \"Downtown 6\" and may be labeled with the vehicle number or data about the capabilities of the specific tow car. It might give a weight capacity, show the unit as a flat bed or cradle snatcher, or mention the unit carries a can of Diesel fuel. The name of the staff on the tow car might be noted. At the start of a shift, the dispatcher would note the unit \"available\" and time stamp a tag, then hang it on that unit's peg. At the assignment to a call, the call information would be written on another tag and the tag might be stamped at the moment the assignment is read to the tow car crew. The tag would then be hung on that unit's peg. The stack of tags allows dispatch staff to get a clear picture of the status of a small fleet.\n\nSome systems use colored tags to show general categories of events such as \"available\". For example, each unit that is available might have the fact noted on an orange tag. Is anyone available? A glance at the pegboard shows anybody whose tag is \"orange\" is available. An repossession might use a yellow tag to identify a service call with a safety issue where the police should be called in the event the tow car crew doesn't check in by radio within five minutes. A blue tag might show a resource is taking a dinner or lunch break.\n\nA major flaw of this system is that tags can easily be posted on the wrong peg, causing confusion. This can be countered by writing unit identifiers on every tag: a lot of work. In colored-tag systems, it is always possible to run out of certain colors of tags, messing up the system. If two or more resources are sent to the same call, the dispatcher has a lot of writing to do.\n\nIn a plastic icon system, the blank panel on the communications console or a nearby wall is fitted with a sheet of Velcro. The material has vertical stripes painted on it, making a column for each of several possible status conditions. The simplest system is two columns: available and unavailable. Magnetized icons can be used in place of Velcro. The icons can be coloured or shaped to identify the type of unit or some other feature of the resource.\n\nEach vehicle working the current shift has an icon placed in the column describing the unit's current status. A log book is used to track times, event details, and other information about calls for service. In a tow truck example, the icon might be labelled with the tow car's radio identifier, \"Down town 6\". During a shift, the icon would be moved by the dispatcher into whatever column describes the resource's current condition. Alternatively, there could be columns for some other condition such as the names of move-up or standby points where resources are sent to backfill for busy tow cars.\n\nA major flaw of this system is that icons can easily be misplaced or fall off of the status board. Magnetic objects can damage cathode ray tube displays if they get too close to the display face or housing.\n\nIn airline operations in a few countries, a dispatcher shares legal responsibility for a flight's safety with its pilot, and may delay, divert or cancel a flight if there is reason to do so. This checks and balances mechanism supposedly improves the safety of the dispatch system, although most countries do not use this system and there is no noticeable detriment to flight safety. A dispatcher typically must be licensed by the aviation authority of a country. The examination for the licence requires the candidate to demonstrate knowledge in meteorology and aviation comparable to that required to obtain an Airline Transport Pilot Licence.\n\nIn a mobile system, wireless technology is provided for efficient job planning, assignment and efficient job planning through the use of mobile dispatch systems sent out through a mobile network on to a mobile device such as PDA. This allows for more flexible management of the workers out in the field as a job can be dispatched to multiple users to accept or reject the job. The benefits of a mobile system as it can then be integrated back into the other software systems used by an organization such as asset management, rostering, and other financial systems.\n\nTrucking dispatchers play a major role in transportation logistics. Truck dispatchers orchestrate freight movement and equipment from one place to another while keeping close communication with truck drivers. Some dispatching companies help truck drivers to negotiate and acquire loads and handle paperwork. Dispatching trucks require a variety of skills like using a computer to find and track loads for drivers to speaking multiple languages depending on the region or number of trucks they manage. Great customer service and good communication are vital for succeeding in this fast-paced environment.\n\nThere is a limit to how many field units can be managed. This varies with circumstances. For example, a parcel delivery service dispatcher may encounter higher traffic around Christmas. Work is not evenly distributed across time: in any dispatch system there are traditional peaks or busy hours in requests for service. Some workplace cultures will allow longer wait times than others.\n\nSystems may use a Radiotelephony procedure to reduce talking time, allowing interaction with a larger dispatch fleet. Air traffic control and towing are two examples. The use of abbreviations or standard phrases can reduce the length of a transaction. Capacity may be reduced by relaxed voice procedure such as a delivery dispatcher giving a lengthy description of a customer complaint over the radio.\n\nIt is generally accepted that giving field units computers connected with the computer-aided dispatch, or another enterprise system used for dispatch, unloads voice two-way radio channels and increases capacity. Users research information on their terminal or laptop instead of calling in with a request that the dispatcher do it. One source suggests radio traffic drops by 30% when computers are available to mobile users.\n\nMeasurements of communications may reflect dispatch capacity. A partial definition of capacity comes from the number of communications channels required to support a dispatch fleet. Two metrics of channel capacity may be: 1) the number of field units or \"resources\" dispatched, and; 2)number of push-to-talk presses per day. A resource may refer to a fire engine, tow truck, taxi, or refuse truck, regardless of how many walkie-talkies, mobile radios, or persons were fielded along with each resource.\n\nOne suggestion is that 100 to 150 mobiles is the maximum practical on one channel. Another suggests 60-70 units as a maximum. The difference in these two ranges probably reflects the wording. For example, 120 \"mobiles\" may mean radios: 60 units each containing a mobile radio and an officer with a walkie talkie. For dispatch systems like take-out food delivery, where life safety is not an issue, delays may be acceptable. Delays increase capacity.\n\nAnother possible measure of capacity is system push-to-talk presses. A 187-day study of four Contra Costa County, California Sheriffs Department conventional two-way radio dispatch channels showed an average of around 2,500 push-to-talk presses per day. The count was within +/-350 a day across all four primary dispatch channels. \n\nA method used for telephone traffic analysis may fit some circumstances. One evaluation looked at 1) peak of busy hour usage, 2) average hourly usage, 3) message length in seconds, 4) maximum delay or wait time desirable, and; 5) maximum percent of users being delayed. Traffic analysis can be applied to radio or telephone communications.\n\nMost office telephone systems have some facility for recording calling volumes, and incoming call timing. Dispatch centers use Automatic call distribution (ACD) groups which can be evaluated for metrics such as average wait time, abandoned calls, and calls per hour. These numeric data can be entered into spreadsheets for analysis of trends.\n\nIn dispatching, US emergency medical services literature suggests that telephone calls to a dispatching facility should be answered in the first few rings. One document suggests emergency calls to dispatch should result in busy signals once per 100 calls during the busiest hour. In business call centers, similar standards are suggested by consultants in order to provide an ideal customer experience and to outperform competing services. Sufficient staffing should be in place so that 90% of emergency calls are, \"...answered within 10 seconds, or with no greater than three rings, during the average busy hour,\" according to one source. Tolerable wait times vary from one culture and region to another: some cultures expect immediate service; others will tolerate waits for some services. Regardless of sector or industry, almost all dispatchers will spend virtually their entire work day on the phone, answering as many as a thousand calls in a single shift while multi tasking other aspects of the job. In many ways, being a dispatcher is really one person doing the work of three or four people. It consistently ranks as among the most stressful jobs in the industrialized world, with high blood pressure, fatigue, obesity, heart disease, and other stress/sedentary related health concerns existing at rates up to ten times the norm of any other occupation.\n\nOne method for organizing assignments in a manual dispatch system is to use a zone map system. Consider a community with four fire stations and two ambulance service providers. A grid is overlaid on a community map. Saint Proximal Medical Center ambulance is identified by the notation \"P\" while Distal Volunteer Rescue Squad is noted with a \"D\".\n\nEach zone of the grid is identified with a progression of ambulance zones and fire stations. One zone might be labeled: DP241. This means fire station 2, then 4, then 1, then 3 would respond to a fire call occurring inside this zone. If fire stations 2, 4, and 1 were assigned to calls, Station 3 would be sent to this zone. Distal Volunteer Rescue Squad would be first-up for an ambulance call occurring inside zone DP241.\n\nThe predefined order is created by persons with expertise in the service being provided, local geography, traffic, and patterns in calls for service. In assigning resources to a zone, decision-makers may consider that responding units must drive around freeways, lakes, or terrain obstructions in order to reach a zone. Zone boundaries and designations will periodically change as communities grow or lessons are learned during day-to-day operations. Consider a zone with an irrigation canal defining one boundary. If a car crashes into the canal, which zone is it in?\n\nZone systems may include standby, move-up, or backfill points. For example, taxi drivers working in a certain zone in the evening hours may expect night club patrons to need a ride. Consider a standby point at Main Street and Railroad Avenue named \"N\". Some fares will come from radio calls to dispatch. A taxi driver, Car 4, may go to predefined standby location \"N\". In some dispatching systems, the driver will call the dispatcher and report they are available and located at standby point \"N\". The dispatcher may respond by reporting the driver's position in the queue, \"Car 4, second N.\" The first call in this district would go to the driver ahead of Car 4. Car 4 would be assigned the second call.\n\nIf automatic vehicle location is available, it would display service vehicle locations on a map. The closest unit would be interpreted by the dispatcher looking at vehicle locations projected on the map.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53831967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53831967", "title": "Dominika Kulczyk", "text": "Dominika Kulczyk\n\nDominika Kulczyk (born 30 July 1977 in Poznań, Poland) is a Polish sinologist, entrepreneur, investor, philanthropist, and reporter. Founder and President of the Kulczyk Foundation, chair of a Supervisory Board of Kulczyk Holding, chair of a Supervisory Board of Polenergia S.A., co-founder of the Values Consulting Group. Author of a series of multiply-awarded reportages, the “Domino Effect”. The Dame of the Order of the Smile. Daughter of Grażyna Kulczyk and Jan Kulczyk.\n\nDominika Kulczyk graduated from the Karol Marcinkowski Secondary School in Poznań. She is a graduate in Sinology from the Department of Oriental Studies, and in Political Sciences from the Faculty of Political Science and Journalism at Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań. Between 1999-2000, she attended a course on Mandarin Chinese at two Chinese universities: at Huadong Shifan University and at Peking University. After her studies, she continued her education at the London Institute, and she completed a course on strategic philanthropy organized by the Rockefeller Foundation.\n\nDominika Kulczyk is a founder and President of the Kulczyk Foundation, a philanthropic organization cooperating with Polish and international non-governmental organizations (NGOs).\n\nIn 2006, together with Jacek Santorski, she founded the Values Consulting Group, which specializes in trainings on the psychology of business and is involved in the project of the Academy of Leadership Psychology, co-organized by the Warsaw University of Technology, whose fundamental part is a training program for middle and senior managers.\n\nBetween 2010-2017, Dominika Kulczyk was the President of the Polish branch of Green Cross International. Green Cross Poland was a platform for the dialogue between business, public administration, non-governmental organizations, and research centers. In June 2013, she joined the Supervisory Board of Kulczyk Investments. In the holding company established by her father, Dominika Kulczyk was responsible for activities within the scope of corporate social responsibility (CSR and CSI) as well as international communication. Until June 2018, she was the Chair of Kulczyk Investments’ Supervisory Board. \n\nBetween 2013-2016, she was the Vice-President of Polish Olympic Committee, and is currently an adviser of the PKO’s President. In the analytical center THINKTANK, she is an expert on communication and intercultural relations, strategic philanthropy, and corporate social responsibility.\n\nIn July 2018 she became a strategic investor and the majority shareholder of Polenergia S.A., she also became the chair of its Supervisory Board.\n\nOn 26 September 2018, she was awarded the Order of the Smile for her distinguished contribution to supporting children. Dominika Kulczyk is the 1025th person who has received this distinction.\n\nShe is the daughter of Grażyna Kulczyk and Jan Kulczyk, sister of Sebastian Kulczyk.\n"}
{"id": "4875380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4875380", "title": "Electronic Products", "text": "Electronic Products\n\nElectronic Products is an electronic component and technology trade magazine serving the electronic design community.\n\n\"Electronic Products\" was founded in 1957. The magazine was owned and published by Hearst Business Media until February 2015 when Arrow Electronics acquired the magazine and publishes it under AspenCore Media. Reaching over 120,000 electronic engineers (EEs) and others in the trade across the United States—in print and over twice that number online worldwide. \"Electronic Products\" is considered a leader in its category.\n\n\"Electronic Products\" editorial sections provide information on new products from the smallest capacitor to the brightest light-emitting diode (LED). In addition, featured articles range from selecting the best components to fill an application need to the latest in developing electronics technology. The editorial content is rounded out with application-specific product sections and transcripts of discussion roundtables on subjects from military to medical electronics.\n\nSince 1977 the magazine has offered the Product of the Year Awards.\n"}
{"id": "4176089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4176089", "title": "Financial Reporting Council", "text": "Financial Reporting Council\n\nThe Financial Reporting Council (FRC) is the UK's and the Republic of Ireland's independent regulator responsible for promoting high quality corporate governance and reporting to foster investment.\n\nThe FRC is a company limited by guarantee, partly funded by government and the industry and its board of directors is appointed by the Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy. It and its subsidiaries play crucial roles in the oversight and development of corporate governance standards in the UK and the Republic of Ireland, such as the UK Corporate Governance Code and standards for the accounting industry.\n\nThe FRC board is supported by three committees:\n\nThe Codes and Standards Committee advise the FRC board on matters relating to codes, standard-setting and policy questions, through its Accounting, Actuarial and Audit & Assurance Councils (formerly Audit Practices Board). The Conduct Committee advise the FRC Board in matters relating to conduct activities to promote high-quality corporate reporting, including monitoring, oversight, investigative and disciplinary functions, through its Monitoring Committee and Case Management Committee. The Executive Committee will support the Board by advising on strategic issues and providing day-to-day oversight of the work of the FRC.\n\nThe FRC incorporates six operating bodies:\n\nThe role of the Accounting Standards Board (ASB) is to issue accounting standards in the United Kingdom. It is recognised for that purpose under the Companies Act 1985. It took over the task of setting accounting standards from the Accounting Standards Committee (ASC) in 1990. However, ASB was overtaken by Financial Reporting Council (FRC) on 2 July 2012. Thus, FRC is now the authority that may issue accounting standards in UK.\n\nThe Financial Reporting Review Panel (FRRP) was established in 1990 as a subsidiary of the United Kingdom's Financial Reporting Council. The FRRP seeks to ensure that the provision of financial information by public and large private companies complies with relevant accounting requirements such as the Companies Act 1985.\n\nThe Accountancy & Actuarial Discipline Board (AADB) is the independent, investigative and disciplinary body for accountants and actuaries in the United Kingdom. The AADB was formerly known as the Accountancy Investigation & Discipline Board (AIDB). It changed its name to the AADB on August 16, 2007. The AADB Scheme establishes the framework and sets in place the legal formalities of participation between the AADB and the Participating Accountancy Bodies i.e. the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW), the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), and the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy (CIPFA), The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ireland, and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.\n\nThe Professional Oversight Board (POB) is a UK regulatory body specializing in the accounting, auditing, and actuarial professions. It is a part of the Financial Reporting Council (FRC), the independent regulator of corporate governance and reporting in the UK.\n\nThe Board's stated purpose is to support the FRC's goal of investor and public confidence in the financial governance of business organizations. The Board provides assurance that professional accountancy bodies are properly setting standards and enforcing discipline for their members, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and other statutory requirements. The POB can carry out inspections on behalf of the FRC, but if any shortcomings are found, sanctions can only be imposed by the professional bodies. However, if a complaint raises concerns that a professional accountancy or actuarial body may have breached significantly its own standard procedures in the handling of a complaint about their member, the POB will normally seek the comments of the relevant body and look at papers relating to the case as appropriate. The Board will then normally write to the complainant to tell them the outcome of their consideration of the matter and whether the body proposes to take any action based on their comments. The POB does not have the power either to overturn any decision which the body has made in a case or to direct how the body should handle a case.\n\nThe Board also operates an Audit Inspection Unit (AIU) that oversees auditing organizations and makes recommendations for appropriate regulatory actions by governmental and professional authorities. As part of its oversight of the actuarial profession, the Board monitors the activities of actuarial organizations with regard to the education, discipline, ethical standards and continuing professional development of their members. The Board also seeks to provide a framework for the evaluation of the quality and effectiveness of actuarial work.\n\nBefore 5 May 2006, the Board was known as the Professional Oversight Board for Accountancy. The name change reflected the Board's additional responsibility for oversight of the actuarial profession from that date.\n\nIn 2011, the Board published information for the first time about shortcomings in self-regulation by particular institutes. Press reports highlighted comments about ACCA, which had implemented recommendations to improve its examination syllabus, but needed to pay greater attention to continuing monitoring of members who had registered as auditors some years ago.\n\nThe Board contains members from a wide range of backgrounds. Paul George is its Director, and John Kellas is interim chair following the death of Dame Barbara Mills.\n\nThe Auditing Practices Board Limited (APB) was originally established in 1991 as a committee of the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies, to take responsibility within both Ireland and the United Kingdom for setting standards of auditing with the objective of enhancing public confidence in the audit process and the quality and relevance of audit services in the public interest. In 2002 APB was re-established under the auspices of The Accountancy Foundation and, following a UK government review, it has been transferred to the Financial Reporting Council (FRC). Its objective has remained the same, but its remit has been extended to include responsibility for setting standards for auditors' integrity, objectivity and independence.\n\nSir Winfried Bischoff has been Chairman of the FRC since May 2014. Other board members include Gay Huey Evans, Melanie McLaren and Paul George.\n\nThe FRC's Chief Executive since November 2009 is Stephen Haddrill.\n\nThe Financial Reporting Review Panel (FRRP) was established in 1990 as a subsidiary of the United Kingdom's Financial Reporting Council. The FRRP seeks to ensure that the provision of financial information by public and large private companies complies with relevant accounting requirements such as the Companies Act 1985.\n\nOn 19 April 2013, the \"Daily Mail\" ran a story titled \"Criticism as seven watchdog members set to investigate KPMG are revealed as current and former employees\".\n\nFollowing the January 2018 collapse of construction and services business Carillion, it was reported that Carillion's auditor KPMG would have its role examined by the FRC. Two months later, the FRC's conduct committee announced an investigation into the conduct of former Carillion finance directors Richard Adam and Zafar Khan.\n\nThe operations of the FRC itself were also to be scrutinised by an independent inquiry ordered by Business Secretary Greg Clark.\n\nAn \"excoriating\" report by the Business and the Work and Pensions Select Committees into the collapse of Carillion, published on 16 May 2018, was critical of the FRC, describing it as feeble and timid, and of failing to follow up concerns in Carillion's 2015 accounts. Along with The Pensions Regulator, it was branded as \"chronically passive\". Welcoming the Government's review of the FRC's powers and effectiveness, the report said changes to be a more aggressive and proactive regulator \"will require a significant shift in culture at the FRC itself\". Still under pressure to improve, in October 2018, the FRC proposed reforms, including banning from earning consultancy fees at businesses they audit, to tackle the \"underlying falling trust in business and the effectiveness of audit,\" and severely rebuked KPMG. In November 2018, it was announced that Stephen Haddrill, CEO of the FRC, was to quit, amid suggestions that his departure might lead to the body's abolition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22560420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22560420", "title": "Indian contract law", "text": "Indian contract law\n\nIndian contract law regulates contract law in India except the state of Jammu and Kashmir. The main contract law in India is codified in the Indian Contract Act 1872 which came into effect on September 1, 1872 and is applicable in the whole country. It governs entering into contract, execution of contract, and the effects of breach of contract.\n\nAccording to Section 2(h) of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 a contract is\n(i) An agreement Enforceable by law\nAn agreement as per Section 2(e) means a promise or a set of promises in exchange for a promise or a set of promises.\n\nEnforcement of contracts is a big problem in India as legal system can be slow and litigious. India is ranked 185th out of 191 countries surveyed by world bank in terms of ease of enforcing a contract.\n\n"}
{"id": "332730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=332730", "title": "Investor", "text": "Investor\n\nAn investor is a person that allocates capital with the expectation of a future financial return. Types of investments include: equity, debt securities, real estate, currency, commodity, token, derivatives such as put and call options, futures, forwards, etc. This definition makes no distinction between those in the primary and secondary markets. That is, someone who provides a business with capital and someone who buys a stock are both investors. An investor who owns a stock is a shareholder.\n\nThe assumption of risk in anticipation of gain but recognizing a higher than average possibility of loss. The term \"speculation\" implies that a business or investment risk can be analyzed and measured, and its distinction from the term \"investment\" is one of degree of risk. It differs from gambling, which is based on random outcomes.\n\nInvestors can include stock traders but with this distinguishing characteristic: investors are owners of a company which entails responsibilities.\n\nThere are two types of investors, retail investors and institutional investors:\n\n\n\nInvestors might also be classified according to their styles. In this respect, an important distinctive investor psychology trait is risk attitude.\n\nThe term \"investor protection\" defines the entity of efforts and activities to observe, safeguard and enforce the rights and claims of a person in his role as an investor. This includes advice and legal action. The assumption of a need of protection is based on the experience that financial investors are usually structurally inferior to providers of financial services and products due to lack of professional knowledge, information or experience. Countries with stronger investor protections tend to grow faster than those with poor investor protections. Investor protection includes accurate financial reporting by public companies so the investors can make an informed decision. Investor protection also includes fairness of the market which means all participants in the market have access to the same information.\n\nInvestor protection through government is regulations and enforcements by government agencies to ensure that market is fair and fraudulent activities are eliminated. An example of a government agency that provides protection to investors is the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which works to protect reasonable investors in America.\n\nInvestor protection through individual is the strategy that one utilizes to minimize loss. Individual investors can protect themselves by purchasing only shares of businesses that they understand, or only those that remain calm through market volatility.\n\nAn individual investor may be protected by the strategy he uses in investment. The strategy includes an appropriate price of the stocks or assets in the right time he enters. It's hard to fix what \"an appropriate price\" is, and when it is appropriate because no one makes a purchase or a sale absolutely in his most favorable situation. However, determination may be made when the price of such share or assets are \"undervalued\" comparing to its potentiality. This is called the margin of safety where an investor can feel at ease when the price of the stocks is alarmingly down.\n\nWhile a tax structure may change, it is generally accepted that long-term capital gains will maintain their position of providing an advantage to investors. This is countered by the opinion that after-tax returns should be considered, especially during retirement, on the basis that allocation to equities is in general, lower, than any returns and should be maximized, to the most lucrative extent. In the current circumstances, long-term capital gains offer one of the best opportunities in the United States tax structure.\n\nIt is made easier for investors to generate long-term capital gains by the employment of exchange-traded funds (ETFs); the process if investment in broad-based index funds, without required indicators. Although some outlandish ETFs could provide investors with the opportunity to venture into previously inaccessible markets and employ different strategies, the unpredictable nature of these holdings frequently result in short-term transactions, surprising tax equations and general performance results issues.\n\nCompany dividends are paid from after-tax profits, with the tax already deducted. Therefore, shareholders are given some respite with a preferential tax rate of 15% on \"qualified dividends\" in the event of the company being domiciled in the United States. Alternatively, in another country having a double-taxation treaty with the USA, accepted by the IRS;. Non-qualified dividends paid by other foreign companies or entities; for example, those receiving income derived from interest on bonds held by a mutual fund, are taxed at the regular and generally higher rate of income tax. When applied to 2013, this is on a sliding scale up to 39.6%, with an additional 3.8% surtax for high-income taxpayers ($200,000 for singles, $250,000 for married couples).\n\nA disciplined and structured investment plan prevents emotional investing which can be related to impulsive buying. This factor can be utilized to counteract the sentiments of a marketplace, which is often reflective of the emotional state of an entire population. Short-term activity in stock prices or the broader markets can frequently be compared to impulsive actions. This is seen in the term \"bull run\" which can induce investors to leap into an investment, as opposed to a \"bearish market\" that could influence a \"sell-off\". It is these types of market scenarios that can cause investors to abandon their investment strategies. Investor discipline is the ability to maintain an investment strategy even in the most tempting, or extreme conditions in the marketplace.\n\nAn established and popular method for stock market investors is Systematic Investment Plans (SIPs) especially for those who have a regular, monthly surplus income. The provision for reaping maximum benefits from these plans is that a disciplined strategy is maintained, one of the foremost advantages for a successful investor. Consistency is closely associated with an investment strategy and can be related to various, adopted, proven techniques; for example, predicting outperforming funds, valuation, or a technical strategy. A strategic advantage that meets the required consistency is long-term investment, which in turn, offers investors long-term capital gains tax advantages. While many investors try to exercise a long-term disciplined approach, the investment marketplace can provide various, tempting options; for instance, a sudden drop in the marketplace, or a pending worldwide event. This is particularly prevalent for retired investors, who are preserving their capital with care.\n\nIn general, core indexes remain constant making it unnecessary for investors to move from one to another. Although an investor could transfer holdings; despite a maturation of the companies and their markets; a large-cap exchange-traded fund would never require being switched for a similar holding. A large-cap ETF will always remain so and an investor will usually want to retain at least a part allocation to large-cap equities in their portfolio.\n\nIt is consistency that is a significant advantage for ETF investors and one that makes it convenient to retain investment positions and benefit from long-term capital gains tax. Despite a potential reduction in the capital gains tax advantage, it is an advantage that should continue to provide some positive benefits in producing after-tax returns. This is a factor that could become an important issue in the future as taxes increase, affecting the lifestyles of retirees. It can be added to by additional taxes generated in short-term trading, exacerbating the situation, due to normal income-tax rates increases.\n\nA financier (; ) is a person whose primary occupation is either facilitating or directly providing investments to up-and-coming or established companies and businesses, typically involving large sums of money and usually involving private equity and venture capital, mergers and acquisitions, leveraged buyouts, corporate finance, investment banking, or large-scale asset management. A financier makes money through this process when his or her investment is paid back with interest, from part of the company's equity awarded to them as specified by the business deal, or a financier can generate income through commission, performance, and management fees. A financier can also promote the success of a financed business by allowing the business to take advantage of the financier's reputation. The more experienced and capable the financier is, the more the financier will be able to contribute to the success of the financed entity, and the greater reward the financier will reap. The term, financier, is French, and derives from \"finance\" or \"payment\". \n\nFinancier is a term used to describe someone who handles money. Certain financier avenues require degrees and licenses including venture capitalists, hedge fund managers, trust fund managers, accountants, stockbrokers, financial advisors, or even public treasurers. Personal investing on the other hand, has no requirements and is open to all by means of the stock market or by word of mouth requests for money. A financier \"will be a specialized financial intermediary in the sense that it has experience in liquidating the type of firm it is lending to\".\n\nEconomist Edmund Phelps has argued that the financier plays a role in directing capital to investments that governments and social organizations are constrained from playing:\n\nThe concept of the financier has been distinguished from that of a mere capitalist based on the asserted higher level of judgment required of the financier. However, financiers have also been mocked for their perceived tendency to generate wealth at the expense of others, and without engaging in tangible labor. For example, humorist George Helgesen Fitch described the financier as \"a man who can make two dollars grow for himself where one grew for some one else before\".\n\nSpecific investment practices are suggested to maintain an ethical behaviour based on principles universally accepted..\n\nSocially responsible investing is recommended in all types of investment.\n\n"}
{"id": "30865259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30865259", "title": "John Astor, 3rd Baron Astor of Hever", "text": "John Astor, 3rd Baron Astor of Hever\n\nJohn Jacob \"Johnny\" Astor VIII, 3rd Baron Astor of Hever, PC DL (born 16 June 1946) is an English businessman and politician. He is an hereditary Lord Temporal, sitting with the Conservatives. Astor was Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence from 2010–2015. Astor is a Deputy Lieutenant of Kent.\n\nAstor was born 16 June 1946. He is the eldest of the five children of Gavin Astor, 2nd Baron Astor of Hever, and Lady Irene Haig. Astor succeeded to the peerage after his father died from cancer in June 1984. His younger siblings are Bridget, Elizabeth, Sarah, and Philip.\n\nAstor was educated at Eton College before serving with the Life Guards (the senior regiment of the British Army, part of the Household Cavalry) from 1966 until 1970, where he visited Malaysia, Hong Kong, and Northern Ireland as well as ceremonial duties in London.\n\nHe worked in France for 11 years, and is now patron of the Conservatives in Paris.\n\nIn 1994, Lord Astor was a British Parliamentary Observer in Johannesburg during the South African General Election. He was a member of the Executive, Association of Conservative Peers from 1996–1998. In 1999 he was elected to continue as a member of the House of Lords.\n\nFrom 1998–2001, he served as an Opposition Spokesman on Social Security and Health from 1998–2003. From 2001, he has been an Opposition Spokesman for Foreign & Commonwealth Affairs, and International Development, from 2003 to 2010, Opposition Spokesman for Defense, and from 2010 to 2011 a Lord in Waiting. From 2010–2015 he was parliamentary under-secretary of state at the Ministry of Defence. He is currently the Prime Minister's Trade Envoy to Oman and Defence Secretary's Adviser for Military Co-operation with the Sultanate of Oman.\n\nHe is Former Hon Vice-Chairman of the Conservative Middle East Council. In 1995 he piloted through the House of Lords the Road Traffic (New Drivers) Act and in 1996 the Trading Schemes Act.\n\nAstor married firstly Fiona Diana Lennox-Harvey on 1 July 1970. They had three daughters together:\n\n\nThey were divorced in 1990 and in the same year Astor married Hon. Elizabeth Mackintosh, younger daughter of John Mackintosh, 2nd Viscount Mackintosh of Halifax. They had two children:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15255279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15255279", "title": "José Ferreira Queimado", "text": "José Ferreira Queimado\n\nJosé Ferreira Queimado (23 December 1913 – 23 December 2007) was the 25th president of Portuguese sports club S.L. Benfica.\n\nBorn in Olhalvo, Queimado served as president of Benfica on two occasions: between 17 June 1966 and 3 July 1967, and between 26 May 1977 and 29 May 1981. During his second tenure, he inaugurated Benfica's swimming pool in 1978 and started the construction of the club's pavilion, named Pavilhão Borges Coutinho in honour of his second predecessor. During Queimado's presidency, Benfica's football team won two Primeira Liga titles (1966–67, 1980–81) and started to use foreign players in 1978. For the services rendered to the club (as associate number 261), he was granted the rank of Merit Associate in 1970 and was awarded Águia de Ouro (Golden Eagle) by the club in 1980. He died on his 94th birthday.\n"}
{"id": "11360000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11360000", "title": "Juan Turner", "text": "Juan Turner\n\nJuan Richard Turner ) is a Manx politician, businessman, radio producer, radio presenter, television producer and freelance cameraman, he is also a Member of the Legislative Council of the Isle of Man, his current term expiring on 28 February 2018.\n\nTurner was elected to the body in the eighth round of voting on 22 May 2007. He was the founder and owner of Energy FM in 2001 and remained its managing director until 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "18223767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18223767", "title": "Kassim Basma", "text": "Kassim Basma\n\nKassim Basma (born in 1960 in Koidu Town, Sierra Leone) is a multimillionaire Sierra Leonean businessman and the second leading diamond exporter from Sierra Leone, accounting for around 38% of all official Sierra Leone diamond exports. Basma was born in Kono District in Eastern Sierra Leone. He was born into a family of Lebanese descent from the southern Lebanese village of Ain Baal. He is a member of the Basma family, one of the oldest families of Lebanese descent in Sierra Leone.\n\n"}
{"id": "12974565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12974565", "title": "Kolbjørn Almlid", "text": "Kolbjørn Almlid\n\nKolbjørn Almlid (born 2 June 1945) is a Norwegian businessperson and politician for the Centre Party.\n\nHe hails from Verran. From 1989 to 1990, during Syse's Cabinet, he was appointed State Secretary in the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy. He served as a deputy representative to the Parliament of Norway from Nord-Trøndelag during the term 1989–1993. From 1991 to 1995 he was county mayor of Nord-Trøndelag. Outside politics, he was a director in the Norwegian Industrial and Regional Development Fund, later named Innovation Norway following a merger.\n\nAlmlid has chaired the Central Norway Regional Health Authority from 2006 to 2012, and Nord-Trøndelag Elektrisitetsverk, and was a board member of Vinmonopolet from 1998 to 2000. In 2011 he became chair of Statnett.\n"}
{"id": "53078485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53078485", "title": "Las Vegas station (Nevada)", "text": "Las Vegas station (Nevada)\n\nLas Vegas station is a former passenger railroad station in Las Vegas, Nevada. It is connected to the rear of the Plaza Hotel & Casino and was in service from 1971 until the demise of the Desert Wind in 1997.\nPrior to the construction of the casino, part of the site was used for a Streamline Moderne train station. Constructed in 1940, the station was upgraded with neon lights in 1946. This station was demolished in 1971 and replaced by the Union Plaza Hotel, which included a small waiting room to be used as a station for Amtrak trains.\n\nThe Union Plaza Hotel and Casino, originally called the Union Plaza in reference to the Union Pacific railroad station that stood at the site, opened on July 2, 1971. Its original owners included local businessmen: Sam Boyd, Howard Cannon, Jackie Gaughan, and Frank Scott. \n\nFrom 1990 to 1992, the red neon object was installed at the top of the neon sign.\n\nBefore the discontinuation of the \"Desert Wind\" train route on May 10, 1997, Amtrak's Las Vegas, Nevada station was located at the Plaza. The station and ticket windows were directly connected to the hotel. It was the only train station in the United States located in a casino. The Las Vegas Limited also served the station during the service's short existence.\n\nToday, Las Vegas is served by an Amtrak Thruway Motorcoach from the Salt Lake City Intermodal Hub in Salt Lake City, Utah. Its two Las Vegas bus stops are located at McCarran International Airport and in Downtown Las Vegas, near Union Plaza station.\n\nAmtrak plans for restoration of Las Vegas rail service surfaced almost immediately after the discontinuation of the Desert Wind. These plans recommended using Talgo trains between Los Angeles and Las Vegas, similar to Amtrak's Cascades route in the Pacific Northwest. This plan was never implemented and Las Vegas went without passenger rail service. Las Vegas is one of the largest metro areas in the US without passenger rail service.\n\nIn 2005 DesertXpress Enterprises LLC was formed in an attempt to restore passenger rail service to Las Vegas. They officially released their plan to construct a high-speed route to SoCal later that year. In 2009, after years of environmental reports, determining right of way, and debating over what federal agency would have regulatory authority, Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood announced the official recognition of DesertXpress as a high-speed route.\n\nIn early 2011, DesertXpress applied for a federal, $5 billion loan through the FRAs RRIF. If approved this would be the largest single amount loaned out since the program began. This contradicted original statements made by DesertXpress Enterprises, that they would not use any tax payer funds. This loan request came months before the final EIS was approved.\n\nTheir XpressWest project is a plan to construct a high-speed route from Las Vegas to Southern California. The terminus of this line, Victorville, has been criticized due to its distance from Downtown Los Angeles, the place long considered to be the prime location for any high-speed rail terminal. Victorville, approximately 85 miles from Los Angeles, was chosen due to the exponential cost of building high-speed rail infrastructure in urban areas, such as the Los Angeles metropolitan area.\n\nA competing company, Las Vegas Railway Express, also plans to begin passenger rail service between Las Vegas and Southern California, though at lower speeds.\n\n"}
{"id": "4825248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4825248", "title": "Laser Focus World", "text": "Laser Focus World\n\nLaser Focus World is a monthly magazine published by PennWell Corporation covering laser, photonics and optoelectronics technologies, applications, and markets. Many professionals in those fields receive it free of charge; it is also possible to subscribe to the magazine.\n\n\"Laser Focus World\" has been published since 1965. It is published on a monthly basis and owned by PennWell Corporation. The headquarters of the magazine is in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Approximately 70,000 subscribers have access to an annual \"Lasers and Photonics Marketplace Seminar\" and \"The Photon Forum\" and can track daily photonics news at the magazine's website. There is also an annual buyer's guide.\n\nThe magazine is the recipient of the 2011 Folio Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "8544394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8544394", "title": "Lieven Gevaert", "text": "Lieven Gevaert\n\nLieven Gevaert (Antwerp, 28 May 1868 – The Hague, 2 February 1935) was a Flemish industrialist. His father died when he was only three years old. He started his career in the company he founded together with his mother in 1889, which produced photographic paper according to traditional methods. In 1894, he founded the company Gevaert & Co, which in 1920, was transformed to N.V Gevaert Photo-producten, merged in 1964 with Agfa AG to become Gevaert-Agfa NV and later Agfa-Gevaert NV.\n\nAlready at an early age, he felt socially responsible and wanted to advance the status of Dutch in Belgium. His personal ideas were strongly influenced by the social encyclical \"Rerum novarum\" (1891) and the writings of Lodewijk De Raet. He supported several Flemish initiatives as a manager, but stayed outside politics. His main objectives were the introduction of Dutch as a business language, and the foundation of a sound Dutch-speaking education as a means to establish a Flemish elite. In 1926, when the \"Vlaamsch Handelsverbond\" (Vlaams Economisch Verbond, VEV) was founded, Gevaert was its first chairman. Later, he founded the Sint-Lievenscollege in Antwerp, where he lived on Belgiëlei.\n\n"}
{"id": "45137079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45137079", "title": "Moïse Lévy de Benzion", "text": "Moïse Lévy de Benzion\n\nMoïse Lévy de Benzion (1873–1943) was an Egyptian department store owner who built an important collection of art and antiquities. The collection was plundered by the Nazis in France during the Second World War and nearly 1000 items seized.\n\nLévy de Benzion was a Sephardi Jew born in Alexandria, Egypt, in 1873. He inherited a family business started in 1857 which he expanded to include the Grands Magasins Benzion department store and other buildings in Cairo. As a collector, Lévy de Benzion's acquisitions included Chinese and oriental art, textiles, carpets, books, and an important collection of Egyptian antiquities. His Egyptian items included fragments from the lost tomb of Nebamun, and one of the earliest known glass portraits, believed to depict Amenhotep II.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Lévy de Benzion's collections in Paris and the chateau \"La Folie\" in Draviel were extensively looted by units of the Einsatzstab Reichsleiter Rosenberg (ERR), the Nazi unit charged with following behind invading German troops and identifying and seizing works of art from occupied countries. Records of the ERR indicate that 989 items were seized from the Lévy de Benzion collection alone.\n\nTypical of the handling of the looted paintings was Gustave Courbet's \"Entree d'un Gave\" (1876). Lévy de Benzion acquired the painting in 1919; the ERR seized it in 1940 and moved it to the Neuschwanstein castle. In 1941 it was acquired by Walter Hofer for the Hermann Göring collection. Göring, however, was not interested in modern art, preferring Old Master paintings instead, and the work was among a number of modern paintings subsequently exchanged for older works selected from Theodor Fischer's Galerie Fischer in Lucerne. Fischer sold the painting to Willi Raeber of Basel, who in turn sold it to Galerie Rosengart of Lucerne, who sold it to Arthur Stoll. After the war, the painting was claimed by Paule-Juliette Levi de Benzion of Cairo and restituted to her in 1948. After changing hands several more times, it was sold to the Birmingham Museum of Art in Alabama in 1999.\n\nAmong the other works seized and later returned were paintings by Eugène Boudin, Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot, Charles Cottet, Charles Daubigny, Claude Monet, Alfred Sisley, and Vincent van Gogh.\n\nLévy de Benzion was arrested by the Nazis in France and died in September 1943. His collection was sold at auction at Villa Benzion, 6 Rue El Amir Omar, Zamalek, Cairo, in March 1947 in a sale of over 900 lots. Villa Benzion was in a part of Zamalek where several other department-store owners lived, but like many other large private houses in the area, it no longer exists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32960023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32960023", "title": "Mule scavenger", "text": "Mule scavenger\n\nScavengers were employed in 18th and 19th century in cotton mills, predominantly in the UK and the United States, to clean and recoup the area underneath a spinning mule. The cotton wastage that gathered on the floor was seen as too valuable for the owners to leave and one of the simplest solutions was to employ young children to work under the machinery. Many children suffered serious injuries while under the mules, with fingers, hands, and sometimes heads crushed by the heavy moving parts. Legislation introduced in 1819 tried to reduce working hours and improve conditions but there were still deaths recorded well beyond the middle of the 19th century.\n\nScavengers were the lowliest of the apprentices at the cotton mills and had to endure the worst conditions. They were employed to work under the machinery to clean up the dust and oil and to gather the cotton that had been thrown off the mule by its intense vibrations. The tenters would not stop to allow the scavenger to work because they were paid by how much they could produce. As the mule moved forwards the children were sent under the machine, sweeping and gathering the cotton. They had to then time their retreat so as to not become entangled within the many moving parts. These children had started in the mills at around the age of four, working as scavengers until they were eight before progressing to the role of piecers. They worked 14 to 16 hours a day, beaten if they fell asleep, until they were 15.\n\nThe job is noted as being one of the worst in history owing to the conditions the children had to work in. The danger of being beneath the machines meant that they had to constantly pay attention to its movements in order to avoid serious injury. An 1840 novel by Frances Trollope describes the work of a scavenger:\nWhile there were no requirements for factory owners to keep any records about the majority of accidents on their premises there are many anecdotal cases of scavengers suffering serious and sometimes fatal injuries. Some lost fingers or a hand, others are said to have been decapitated. A record held at the Quarry Bank Mill, now a museum, states:\nResearch by Jane Humphries, a professor of economic history at the University of Oxford, revealed that a mill near Cork had such a poor safety record that six people died and 60 others were mutilated over a four-year period. Robert Blincoe, a scavenger who went on to found his own cotton-spinning business, described the life of a child labourer in his book \"A Memoir of Robert Blincoe\". He wrote about the mistreatment of workers at the cotton mills and the poor conditions that they had to endure. He claims that on one occasion he was nearly crushed by the machine and that, despite the injuries to his head, he was beaten for not completing the sweep in a single turn.\n\nThe children were sent to the mills of Derbyshire, Yorkshire and Lancashire from the workhouses in London and other towns and cities in the south of England. About half of the workers in Manchester and Stockport cotton factories surveyed in 1818 and 1819 had begun work at under ten years of age. Part of the Factory Act of 1802 was introduced to improve conditions for children, but it was not enough. In the 1819 Cotton Mills and Factories Act the law was updated to state that no children under the age of nine were to be employed and that children aged 9–16 years were limited to a maximum day of 16 hours. The law was difficult to enforce, but by 1835 the share of the workforce under 18 years of age in cotton mills in England and Scotland had fallen to 43%. Children were still working in cotton mills throughout the 19th century and, while numerous acts of Parliament were introduced to cut down the hours and improve conditions, those under the age of 14 were allowed to work in factories until the Education Act of 1918 made attending school compulsory.\n"}
{"id": "57591866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57591866", "title": "National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education", "text": "National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education\n\nThe National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE) is a partnership between government, academia, and the private sector focused supporting the country’s ability to address current and future cybersecurity education and workforce challenges through standards and best practices. NICE is led by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in the U.S. Department of Commerce. \n\nThe Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative (CNCI), established by President George W. Bush in January 2008, included over twelve Initiatives, one of which, Initiative 8, was aimed at making the Federal cybersecurity workforce better prepared to handle cybersecurity challenges.\n\nIn May 2009, the Cyberspace Policy Review, directed by President Barack Obama,  elevated the CNCI Initiative 8, which had initially been focused on improving the Federal cybersecurity workforce’s ability to perform cybersecurity work. The scope was expanded beyond the Federal workforce to include the private sector workforce, truly making it a national charge. \n\nIn March 2010, the Obama administration declassified limited material regarding the CNCI, making Initiative 8 public: \"Initiative #8. Expand cyber education.\" \"While billions of dollars are being spent on new technologies to secure the U.S. Government in cyberspace, it is the people with the right knowledge, skills, and abilities to implement those technologies who will determine success. However there are not enough cybersecurity experts within the Federal Government or private sector to implement the CNCI, nor is there an adequately established Federal cybersecurity career field. Existing cybersecurity training and personnel development programs, while good, are limited in focus and lack unity of effort. In order to effectively ensure our continued technical advantage and future cybersecurity, we must develop a technologically-skilled and cyber-savvy workforce and an effective pipeline of future employees. It will take a national strategy, similar to the effort to upgrade science and mathematics education in the 1950’s, to meet this challenge.\" Additionally, the CNCI described training, education, and professional development programs as lacking “unity of effort”. \n\nCybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 Title IV established the “National cybersecurity awareness and education program”, which is now known as the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE). \n\nA digital economy enabled by a knowledgeable and skilled cybersecurity workforce.\n\nTo energize and promote a robust network and an ecosystem of cybersecurity education, training, and workforce development.\n\nNICE Cybersecurity Workforce Framework\n\nThe NICE Cybersecurity Workforce Framework (NICE Framework), NIST Special Publication 800-181, is a national focused resource that categorizes and describes cybersecurity work. The publication serves as a fundamental reference to support a workforce capable of meeting an organization’s cybersecurity needs by establishing a taxonomy and common lexicon that describes cybersecurity work and workers irrespective of where or for whom the work is performed. The NICE Framework is intended to be applied in the public, private, and academic sectors. Although the NICE Framework was published as a NIST Special Publication in August 2017, working drafts of the document have been in use since 2010. The publication is intended to be a living document that will be updated periodically based on change requests to the NICE Program Office.  A plethora of tools and resources exist for learning about and implementing the NICE Framework. Learn more at nist.gov/nice/framework.   \n\nNICE Strategic Plan\n\nThe Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 requires that a strategic plan be developed and implemented every five years. The current NICE Strategic Plan includes a multitude of guiding values and three primary goals: 1) Accelerate Learning and Skills Development, 2) Nurture a Diverse Learning Community, and 3) Guide Career Planning and Workforce Development. See the current and past versions of the NICE Strategic Plan at nist.gov/nice. \n\nSupporting the Growth and Sustainment of the Nation's Cybersecurity Workforce: Building the Foundation for a More Secure American Future\n\nIn May 2017, President Donald Trump issued the Executive Order on Strengthening the Cybersecurity of Federal Networks and Critical Infrastructure. In part, the order states that it is the policy of the United States “to support the growth and sustainment of a workforce that is skilled in cybersecurity and related fields as the foundation for achieving our objectives in cyberspace.” Consequently, the Secretary of Commerce and Secretary of Homeland Security were directed to provide a report to the President with findings and recommendations regarding how to support the growth and sustainment of the Nation's cybersecurity workforce in both the public and private sectors. The report, \"Supporting the Growth and Sustainment of the Nation's Cybersecurity Workforce: Building the Foundation for a More Secure American Future\", is the response to this charge. \n\nNICE Framework Work Role Capability Indicators: Indicators for Performing Work Roles \n\nThe NICE Framework Work Role Capability Indicators: Indicators for Performing Work Roles, draft NIST Interagency Report 8193, was co-authored by representatives from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, National Institute of Standards and Technology, and Booz Allen Hamilton Inc. The document helps determine what qualities or accomplishments indicate that someone is suitable to perform a particular job or activity. These qualities are defined in this report as “capability indicators.”\n\nNICE is headquartered at NIST facilities in Gaithersburg, Maryland. The NICE Program Office activities are organized into three categories: government engagement, industry engagement, and academic engagement. \n\nCommittees\n\nNICE has several committees: \n\n\nNICE Challenge Project\n\nThe NICE Challenge Project, led by California State University, San Bernardino, is designed to create a flexible set of challenge environments and supporting infrastructure with a low barrier of use in which one would be able to perform the tasks outlined in the NICE Cybersecurity Workforce Framework. It can be used as a platform for instruction as well as to evaluate those who endeavor to be part of the cybersecurity workforce. \n\nCyberSeek\n\nCyberSeek, an interactive heat map and pathway tool, developed by CompTIA in partnership with Burning Glass Technologies, provides a data visualization of the need for and supply of cybersecurity workers to guide employers, job seekers, policy makers, education and training providers, and guidance counselors. CyberSeek includes a Cybersecurity Jobs Heat Map which shows information on the supply of workers with relevant credentials. This project also shows Career Pathways in cybersecurity that map opportunities for advancement in the field. \n\nRegional Alliances and Multistakeholder Partnerships to Stimulate Cybersecurity Education and Workforce Development (RAMPS) \n\nRAMPS was a program that provides funding opportunities to build multistakeholder workforce partnerships of employers, schools and institutions of higher education, and other community organizations. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "5750747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5750747", "title": "Okura Kihachiro", "text": "Okura Kihachiro\n\n\"Incorporates translations from the corresponding Japanese Wikipedia article\"\n\nIn contrast to most of the zaibatsu, the Ōkura zaibatsu was founded by someone from the peasant class. Ōkura Kihachirō moved from what is now Niigata Prefecture on the north shore of Honshū to Edo and worked for three years before starting his own grocery store in 1857. After selling groceries for eight years, he became a weapons dealer during the turbulent years between the arrival of the Black Ships and the eventual overthrow in 1867 of the Tokugawa Shogunate and despite being born a peasant, he became an expert in Shindō Munen-ryū. He became one of the principal business investors of the original Imperial Hotel completed in 1890.\n\nKihachiro's son, Kishichirō, is credited with introducing the automobile into Japan.\n\nKihachiro, who made a fortune in his lifetime and lived in Toranomon, was a collector of Oriental antiques. In fear of valuable artworks flowing out to other countries, he built Japan’s first private museum, the Ōkura Shukokan, in 1917 by donating many cultural assets he had collected, the land, and the funds. The 5-story building stood on a property of about 10,000 square meters (2.5 acres), but it was damaged in the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake. The Ōkura Shukokan that now stands adjacent to the Hotel Ōkura was rebuilt in 1928; it was based on a design by Itō Chūta, who is known for his design for Tsukiji Honganji Temple, and is designated as a cultural asset of Japan. The museum houses 2,000 pieces of Oriental paintings and sculptures, including such national treasures as the wooden statue of Samantabhadra and 35,000 volumes of Chinese literature.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43495727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43495727", "title": "Otto Sverdrup Engelschiøn", "text": "Otto Sverdrup Engelschiøn\n\nOtto Sverdrup Engelschiøn (30 October 1902 – 8 May 1982) was a Norwegian marketer, businessperson, resistance member and genealogist.\n\nHe was born in Kristiania as a son of consul-general Søren Dass Brodtkorb Sverdrup Engelschiøn (1867–1909) and Janka Hansen (1869–1935). In 1928 he married Gudrun Irgens Garmann.\n\nEngelschiøn finished his secondary education in 1922 and graduated from the Royal Frederick University with the cand.jur. degree in 1926. He was an attorney from 1927, and also director of I. Sverdrup Engelschiøn which had the rights to distribute Swedish Tomten products in Norway. In 1929 it was merged with Norsk Barnengens Tekniske Fabrik. Engelschiøn spent the rest of his career in the company, from 1929 as director of the sales and marketing department and from 1948 to 1968 as co-owner.\n\nIn the 1930s he was a member of Nasjonal Samling. He left the party in the 1937 party split, continuing though in the \"Ragnarok\" group around national socialist Hans S. Jacobsen, and edited the magazine \"Ragnarok\" in 1940. In 1940, however, Norway was invaded and occupied by Nazi Germany. Engelschiøn joined the resistance movement and was the head of intelligence in Milorg's District 13, Division 3 (Asker and Bærum) from 1943 to 1945. He received the Defence Medal 1940–1945 with rosette.\n\nEngelschiøn chaired the Norwegian Genealogical Society from 1957 to 1968, and thereafter served as deputy chairman. He was also a bibliophile, chairing Bibliofilklubben twice as well as the contest jury for the Most Beautiful Book of the Year. Engelschiøn also issued a crime novel under pseudonym.\n\nHe resided in Bærum. He died in 1982 and was buried at Haslum.\n"}
{"id": "57261623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57261623", "title": "Pamela Mars-Wright", "text": "Pamela Mars-Wright\n\nPamela Diane Mars-Wright (b. Mars, 1960) is an American businesswoman and billionaire heiress. Previously, she has served as been e.g. the chairman of the board of Mars Inc.. Currently she works e.g. as a supervisory board member of Dutch brewing company Heineken International.\n\nMars-Wright is a fourth generation member of the Mars family. Her father was late Forrest Mars Jr. (1931–2016). She has three sisters: Marijke Mars, Valerie Mars and Victoria B. Mars. She inherited about 8 percent stake of Mars Inc. in 2016, which made her a billionaire. According to Forbes, her shares were valued worth of $5.9 billion (March 2018).\n\nMars-Wright graduated (B.A./BSc) from Vassar College. She has held several roles within Mars Inc. She started as an operations supervisor in 1986, then she became plant director manager at the company's petcare factory followed by a position as manufacturing director at Mars Australia. After a sabbatical she joined Mars Inc. as a member of the board of directors in 2001 and served also as the chairman of the board (2004–2008). She was a board member of Mars Inc. also in 2015 and was promoting sustainability. Today, she works as the family's ambassador to the Mars petcare division. \n\nShe is married and has three children.\n\n"}
{"id": "222783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222783", "title": "Partnership", "text": "Partnership\n\nA partnership is an arrangement where parties, known as partners, agree to cooperate to advance their mutual interests. The partners in a partnership may be individuals, businesses, interest-based organizations, schools, governments or combinations. Organizations may partner to increase the likelihood of each achieving their mission and to amplify their reach. A partnership may result in issuing and holding equity or may be only governed by a contract.\n\nPartnerships have a long history; they were already in use in Medieval times in Europe and in the Middle East. \nIn Europe, the partnerships contributed to the Commercial Revolution which started in the 13th century. In the 15th century the cities of the Hanseatic League, would mutually strengthen each other; a ship from Hamburg to Danzig would not only carry its own cargo but was also commissioned to transport freight for other members of the league. This practice not only saved time and money, but also constituted a first step toward partnership. This capacity to join forces in reciprocal services became a distinctive feature, and a long lasting success factor, of the Hanseatic team spirit.\n\nA close examination of Medieval trade in Europe shows that numerous significant credit based trades were not bearing interest. Hence, pragmatism and common sense called for a fair compensation for the risk of lending money, and a compensation for the opportunity cost of lending money without using it for other fruitful purposes. In order to circumvent the usury laws edicted by the Church, other forms of reward were created, in particular through the widespread form of partnership called \"commenda\", very popular with Italian merchant bankers. Florentine merchant banks were almost sure to make a positive return on their loans, but this would be before taking into account solvency risks.\n\nIn the Middle East, the \"Qirad\" and \"Mudarabas\" institutions developed when trade with the Levant, namely the Ottoman Empire and the Muslim Near East, flourished and when early trading companies, contracts, bills of exchange and long-distance international trade were established. After the fall of the Roman Empire, the Levant trade revived in the tenth to eleventh centuries in Byzantine Italy. The eastern and western Mediterranean formed part of a single commercial civilization in the Middle Ages, and the two regions were economically interdependent through trade (in varying degrees).\n\nAlthough not required by law, partners may benefit from a partnership agreement that defines the important terms of the relationship between them. Partnership agreements can be formed in the following areas: \n\nPartnerships present the involved parties with complex negotiation and special challenges that must be navigated unto agreement. Overarching goals, levels of give-and-take, areas of responsibility, lines of authority and succession, how success is evaluated and distributed, and often a variety of other factors must all be negotiated. Once agreement is reached, the partnership is typically enforceable by civil law, especially if well documented. Partners who wish to make their agreement affirmatively explicit and enforceable typically draw up Articles of Partnership. Trust and pragmatism are also essential as it cannot be expected that everything can be written in the initial partnership agreement, therefore quality governance and clear communication are critical success factors in the long run. It is common for information about formally partnered entities to be made public, such as through a press release, a newspaper ad, or public records laws.\n\nWhile industrial partnerships stand to amplify mutual interests and accelerate success, some forms of collaboration may be considered ethically problematic. When a politician, for example, partners with a corporation to advance the latter's interest in exchange for some benefit, a conflict of interest results; consequentially, the public good may suffer. While technically lawful in some jurisdictions, such practice is broadly viewed negatively or as corruption.\n\nPartner compensation will often be defined by the terms of a partnership agreement. Partners who work for the partnership may receive compensation for their labor before any division of profits between partners.\n\nIn certain partnerships of individuals, particularly law firms and accountancy firms, equity partners are distinguished from salaried partners (or contract or income partners). The degree of control which each type of partner exerts over the partnership depends on the relevant partnership agreement.\n\nAlthough individuals in both categories are described as partners, equity partners and salaried partners have little in common other than joint and several liability. In many legal systems, salaried partners are not technically \"partners\" at all in the eyes of the law. However, if their firm holds them out as partners, they are nonetheless subject to joint and several liability.\n\nIn their most basic form, equity partners enjoy a fixed share of the partnership (usually, but not always an equal share with the other partners) and, upon distribution of profits, receive a portion of the partnership's profits proportionate to that share. In more sophisticated partnerships, different models exist for determining either ownership interest, profit distribution, or both. Two common alternate approaches to distribution of profit are \"lockstep\" and \"source of origination\" compensation (sometimes referred to, more graphically, as \"eat what you kill\").\n\nSource of origination compensation is rarely seen outside of law firms. The principle is simply that each partner receives a share of the partnership profits up to a certain amount, with any additional profits being distributed to the partner who was responsible for the \"origination\" of the work that generated the profits.\n\nBritish law firms tend to use the lockstep principle, whereas American firms are more accustomed to source of origination. When British firm Clifford Chance merged with American firm Rogers & Wells, many of the difficulties associated with that merger were blamed on the difficulties of merging a lockstep culture with a source of origination culture.\n\nPartnerships recognized by a government body may enjoy special benefits from taxation policy. Among developed countries, for example, business partnerships are often favored over corporations in taxation policy, since dividend taxes only occur on profit before they are distributed to the partners. However, depending on the partnership structure and the jurisdiction in which it operates, owners of a partnership may be exposed to greater personal liability than they would as shareholders of a corporation. In such countries, partnerships are often regulated via anti-trust laws, so as to inhibit monopolistic practices and foster free market competition. Enforcement of the laws, however, varies considerably. Domestic partnerships recognized by governments typically enjoy tax benefits, as well.\n\nAt common law, members of a business partnership are personally liable for the debts and obligations of the partnership. Forms of partnership have evolved that may limit a partner's liability.\n\nAs common law there are two basic forms of partnership:\n\nMore recently, additional forms of partnership have been recognized:\n\nA silent partner is one who still shares in the profits and losses of the business, but who is not involved in its management. Sometimes the silent partner's interest in the business will not be publicly known. A silent partner is often an investor in the partnership, who is entitled to a share of the partnership's profits. Silent partners may prefer to invest in limited partnerships in order to insulate their personal assets from the debts or liabilities of the partnership.\n\nSummarising s. 5 of the \"Partnership Act 1958\" (Vic) (hereinafter the \"Act\"), for a partnership in Australia to exist, four main criteria must be satisfied. They are:\nPartners share profits and losses. A partnership is basically a settlement between two or more groups or firms in which profit and loss are equally divided\n\nIn Bangladesh, the relevant law for regulating partnership is the Partnership Act 1932. A partnership is defined as the relation between persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all. The law does not require written partnership agreement between the partners to form a partnership. A partnership does not also required to be registered, however an unregistered partnership has a number of limitation regarding enforcing its rights in any court. A partnership is considered as a separate legal identity (i.e. separate from its owners) in Bangladesh only if the partnership is registered. There must be a minimum of 2 partners and maximum of 20 partners.\n\nStatutory regulation of partnerships in Canada fall under provincial jurisdiction. A partnership is not a separate legal entity and partnership income is taxed at the rate of the partner receiving the income. It can be deemed to exist regardless of the intention of the partners. Common elements considered by courts in determining the existence of a partnership are that two or more legal persons:\n\nA partnership in Hong Kong is a business entity formed by the Hong Kong Partnerships Ordinance, which defines a partnership as \"the relation between persons carrying on a business in common with a view of profit\" and is not a joint stock company or an incorporated company. If the business entity registers with the Registrar of Companies it takes the form of a limited partnership defined in the Limited Partnerships Ordinance. However, if this business entity fails to register with the Registrar of Companies, then it becomes a general partnership as a default.\n\nAccording to section 4 of the Partnership Act of 1932,\"Partnership is defined as the relation between two or more persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business run by all or any one of them acting for all\". This definition superseded the previous definition given in section 239 of Indian Contract Act 1872 as – “Partnership is the relation which subsists between persons who have agreed to combine their property, labor, skill in some business, and to share the profits thereof between them”. The 1932 definition added the concept of mutual agency. The Indian Partnerships have the following common characteristics:\n\n1) A partnership firm is not a legal entity apart from the partners constituting it. It has limited identity for the purpose of tax law as per section 4 of the Partnership Act of 1932.\n\n2) Partnership is a concurrent subject. Contracts of partnerships are included in the Entry no.7 of List III of The Constitution of India (the list constitutes the subjects on which both the State government and Central (National) Government can legislate i.e. pass laws on).\n\n3) Unlimited Liability. The major disadvantage of partnership is the unlimited liability of partners for the debts and liabilities of the firm. Any partner can bind the firm and the firm is liable for all liabilities incurred by any firm on behalf of the firm. If property of partnership firm is insufficient to meet liabilities, personal property of any partner can be attached to pay the debts of the firm.\n\n4) Partners are Mutual Agents.The business of firm can be carried on by all or any of them for all. Any partner has authority to bind the firm. Act of any one partner is binding on all the partners. Thus, each partner is ‘agent’ of all the remaining partners. Hence, partners are ‘mutual agents’. Section 18 of the Partnership Act, 1932 says \"Subject to the provisions of this Act, a partner is the agent of the firm for the purpose of the business of the firm\"\n\n5) Oral or Written Agreements. The Partnership Act, 1932 nowhere mentions that the Partnership Agreement is to be in written or oral format. Thus the general rule of the Contract Act applies that the contract can be 'oral' or 'written' as long as it satisfies the basic conditions of being a contract i.e. the agreement between partners is legally enforceable. A written agreement is advisable to establish existence of partnership and to prove rights and liabilities of each partner, as it is difficult to prove an oral agreement.\n\n6) Number of Partners is minimum 2 and maximum 50 in any kind of business activities.Since partnership is ‘agreement’ there must be minimum two partners. The Partnership Act does not put any restrictions on maximum number of partners. However, section 464 of Companies Act 2013, and Rule 10 of Companies (Miscellaneous) Rules, 2014 prohibits partnership consisting of more than 50 for any businesses, unless it is registered as a company under Companies Act, 2013 or formed in pursuance of some other law. Some other law means companies and corporations formed via some other law passed by Parliament of India.\n\n7) Mutual agency is the real test. The real test of ‘partnership firm’ is ‘mutual agency’ set by the Courts of India, i.e. whether a partner can bind the firm by his act, i.e. whether he can act as agent of all other partners.\n\n8) Global Safety Summit. The real test of ‘partnership firm’ is ‘mutual agency’ set by the public limited companies of India, i.e. whether a partner can bind the firm by his act, i.e. whether he can act as agent of all other partners.\n\nA limited partnership in the United Kingdom consists of:\n\n\nLimited partners may not:\n\n\nIf they do, they become liable for all the debts and obligations of the firm up to the amount drawn out or received back or incurred while taking part in the management, as the case may be.\n\nUnder U.S. law a partnership is a business association of two or more individuals, through which partners share the profits and responsibility for the liabilities of their venture. U.S. states recognize forms of limited partnership that may allow a partner who does not participate in the business venture to avoid liability for the partnership's debts and obligations. Partnerships typically pay less taxes than corporations in fields like fund management.\n\nThe federal government of the United States does not have specific statutory law governing the establishment of partnerships. Instead, every U.S. state and the District of Columbia has its own statutes and common law that govern partnerships. The National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws has issued non-binding model laws (called uniform act) in which to encourage the adoption of uniformity of partnership law into the states by their respective legislatures. Model laws include the Uniform Partnership Act and the Uniform Limited Partnership Act. Most U.S. states have adopted a form of the Uniform Partnership Act, which includes provisions reguating general partnerships, limited partnerships and limited liability partnerships.\n\nAlthough the federal government does not have specific statutory law for establishing partnerships, it has an extensive statutory and regulatory scheme for the taxation of partnerships, set forth in the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) and Code of Federal Regulations. The IRC defines federal tax obligations for partnership operations that effectively serve as federal regulation of some aspects of partnerships.\n"}
{"id": "28126196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28126196", "title": "Paul Cardwell", "text": "Paul Cardwell\n\nPaul Cardwell is Chairman and Creative Director of Doner Cardwell Hawkins. \n\nThe \"Creature Comforts\" advertising campaign that he created with Nick Park and Phil Rylance won a BAFTA award and went on to win almost every major advertising award in the world.\n\nThese commercials were voted fourth in the alltime \"100 Greatest TV Ads\" by viewers of Channel 4.\n\nSince 1995 he has been a director of the Mariinsky Theatre Trust, managing the visits of the Mariinsky Opera and Mariinsky Ballet, formerly the Kirov.\n\nIn 2004 he designed the stage sets for a performance by the artistic director, Valery Gergiev, to commemorate the Beslan school hostage crisis. The performance was broadcast worldwide by the BBC.\n\n"}
{"id": "2958975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2958975", "title": "Peale Museum", "text": "Peale Museum\n\nThe Peale Museum, officially the Municipal Museum of the City of Baltimore, was a museum of paintings and natural history, located in Baltimore, Maryland, United States. It occupied the first building in the Western Hemisphere to be designed and built specifically as a museum. The museum was created by Charles Willson Peale (1741–1827) and his son Rembrandt Peale (1778–1860). It functioned separately as Baltimore City's historical museum since the original structure was being rebuilt, restored, and renovated in 1930–1931, and then merged with other historic sites, houses and museums in the early 1980s under the expansive efforts of a new executive director, with the name of the Baltimore City Life Museums and a broader mission in conjunction with the other historical locations/sites/structures in Baltimore.\n\nAfter opening a new three-story exhibition gallery, uniquely using the old cast-iron façade of the razed (but placed in storage in a city yard for 30 years) Fava Fruit Company and being re-assembled on the new structure facing North Front Street and the parallel new President Street boulevard (between East Lombard and East Fayette streets), the new gallery and the B.C.L.M. ran into financial difficulties in the first year (1996–1997) after the grand opening, coincidentally during the bicentennial celebration of Baltimore's establishment as a city. The Peale branch of the City Life Museums closed with the other branches, historic houses and sites later in 1997, after being refused a one-year extension of its five-year subsidy of about $300,000 annually by then Mayor Kurt Schmoke. Its large collections from over 66 years of original existence were disassembled, transferred and handed over to the Maryland Historical Society, founded 1844, now located on the city block on the southwest corner of West Monument Street and Park Avenue, centered in the old Enoch Pratt Mansion and adjacent research library and museum exhibition areas building. The building was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1965.\n\nToday, the museum is being renovated and relaunched as the Peale Center for Baltimore History and Architecture through a partnership between Baltimore's Department of General Services, which owns the building, and the Board of the Peale Center for Baltimore History and Architecture, a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt, non-profit corporation. It is currently open to the public for special events and anticipates being fully reopened by 2020.\n\nCharles Willson Peale (1741–1827) received his inspiration for a public museum in 1783 while illustrating mastodon fossils belonging to Dr. John Morgan. Once he had conceived the idea for an American museum of natural history, Peale opened a museum to the public in Philadelphia on July 18, 1786. In 1810, Peale retired from his work with the museum, leaving its management and responsibility to his sons. Later in 1814, a museum was established at 225 North Holliday Street between East Saratoga and East Lexington streets in Baltimore by Rembrandt Peale (1778–1860), the second son of Charles Willson Peale. It was dubbed as \"Peale's Baltimore Museum and Gallery of Fine Arts\" and featured portraits of famous Americans (many by the founder) and the complete skeleton of a prehistoric mastodon exhumed by C.W. Peale in 1801.\n\nIn 1830, the old Peale Museum was sold and the exhibits were moved to a newly constructed building on the northwest corner of North Calvert Street and East Baltimore Street, one block south of the Battle Monument Square and the Baltimore City Courthouse. By 1830, the historic building became home to Baltimore's first \"City Hall\" and remained there through the tumultuous Civil War years until 1875 when replaced by the current Baltimore City Hall, which had been under construction since 1867 one block south, on the 200 block of Holliday Street. The massive new municipal government offices of French Second Empire-style architecture, with its distinctive mansard roofs and large dome and clock, now occupied an entire city block bounded by Holliday, East Lexington, East Fayette and North streets (now Guilford Avenue), one block south at the 200 block of Holliday between East Lexington and Fayette streets.\n\nThe old museum and City Hall was then turned over to the city's Board of School Commissioners and the Baltimore City Public Schools and became the Number 1 Colored Primary School (as there was a number of then-called \"Negro\" or \"Colored\" institutions, churches, law firms and businesses in the areas around East Pleasant, Saratoga, East Lexington and along St. Paul Street and North Calvert streets). Later it was rented out to a series of private businesses.\n\nBy 1928, it had been repeatedly condemned and was in danger of demolition. With the inspiration of newly-emergent, local historians and journalists, who had just celebrated the centennial of the \"Star Spangled Banner\" (future national anthem) and the Battle of Baltimore with its Bombardment of Fort McHenry and resulted in the saving of the old 1793 rowhouse at East Pratt and Albemarle streets in the Jonestown/Old Town and Little Italy neighborhoods, owned and lived in by Mary Young Pickersgill, (1776–1857) who made the huge \"Star Spangled Banner Flag\", the restoration of the old \"Flag House\" and setting up of a historical museum there in 1927 boosted the hopes, political power and determination of the preservationists. So the restoration of the old museum took place with an expense of $90,000. The building was renovated and rededicated in 1931 as the Municipal Museum of Baltimore. The museum underwent a major two-year renovation starting in 1978 and was reopened in 1981 as the Peale Museum. In 1985, the Peale became part of the Baltimore City Life Museums system until its closure in 1997.\nThe entire Peale collection has been moved to the Maryland Historical Society, leaving the original building on North Holliday Street vacant.\n\nAs of April 2014, a campaign was being waged by a Maryland group to raise $4 million for restoration of the museum. The building is located between Zion Lutheran Church and offices for \"The Real News\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18800246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18800246", "title": "Performance-based advertising", "text": "Performance-based advertising\n\nPerformance-based advertising, also known as pay for performance advertising, is a form of advertising in which the purchaser pays only when there are measurable results. Performance-based advertising is becoming more common with the spread of electronic media, notably the Internet, where it is possible to measure user actions resulting from advertisement.\n\nThere are four common pricing models used in the online performance advertising market.\n\nCPM (cost-per-mille, or cost-per-thousand) pricing models charge advertisers for impressions, i.e. the number of times people view an advertisement. Display advertising is commonly sold on a CPM pricing model. The problem with CPM advertising is that advertisers are charged even if the target audience does not click on the advertisement.\n\nCPC (cost-per-click) advertising overcomes this problem by charging advertisers only when the consumer clicks on the advertisement. However, due to increased competition, search keywords have become very expensive. A 2007 Doubleclick Performics Search trends Report shows that there were nearly six times as many keywords with a cost per click (CPC) of more than $1 in January 2007 than the prior year. The cost per keyword increased by 33% and the cost per click rose by as much as 55%.\n\nIn recent times, there has been a rapid increase in online lead generation – banner and direct response advertising that works off a CPL pricing model. In a cost-per-lead pricing model, advertisers pay only for qualified leads – irrespective of the clicks or impressions that went into generating the lead. CPL advertising is also commonly referred to as online lead generation.\n\nCost per lead (CPL) pricing models are the most advertiser friendly. A recent IBM research study found that two-thirds of senior marketers expect 20 percent of ad revenue to move away from impression-based sales, in favor of action-based models within three years. CPL models allow advertisers to pay only for qualified leads as opposed to clicks or impressions and are at the pinnacle of the online advertising ROI hierarchy.\n\nIn CPA advertising, advertisers pay for a specific action such as a credit card transaction (also called CPO, cost-per-order).\n\nAdvertisers need to be careful when choosing between CPL and CPA pricing models.\n\nIn CPL campaigns, advertisers pay for an interested lead – i.e. the contact information of a person interested in the advertiser's product or service. CPL campaigns are suitable for brand marketers and direct response marketers looking to engage consumers at multiple touch-points – by building a newsletter list, community site, reward program or member acquisition program.\n\nIn CPA campaigns, the advertiser typically pays for a completed sale involving a credit card transaction. CPA is all about 'now' – it focuses on driving consumers to buy at that exact moment. If a visitor to the website doesn't buy anything, there's no easy way to re-market to them.\n\nThere are other important differentiators:\n\n\nCPL advertising is more appropriate for advertisers looking to deploy acquisition campaigns by re-marketing to end consumers through e-newsletters, community sites, reward programs, loyalty programs and other engagement vehicles.\n\nMany advertisers have limited budgets and may not understand the most effective method of advertising. \nWith performance-based advertising plans, they avoid the risk of paying large amounts for advertisements that are ineffective. They pay only for results.\n\nThe advertising agency, distributor or publisher assumes the risk, and is therefore motivated to ensure that\nthe advertisement is well-targeted, making best use of the available inventory of advertising space.\nElectronic media publishers may choose advertisements based on location, time of day, day of week, demographics and performance history,\nensuring that they maximize revenue earned from each advertising slot.\n\nThe close attention to targeting is intended to minimize the number of irrelevant advertisements presented to consumers.\nThey see advertisements for products and services that are likely to interest them.\nAlthough consumers often state that advertisements are irritating, in many situations they find the advertisement useful if they are relevant.\n\nVarious types of measurable action may be used in charging for performance-based advertising:\n\n\nSome Internet sites are markets, bringing together buyers and sellers. eBay is a prominent example of a market operating on an auction basis. Other market sites let the vendors set their price. In either model, the market mediates sales and takes a commission – a defined percentage of the sale value. The market is motivated to give a more prominent position to vendors who achieve high sales value. Markets may be seen as a form of performance-based advertising.\n\nThe use of mobile coupons also enables a whole new world of metrics within identifying campaign effect. There are several providers of mobile coupon technology that makes it possible to provide unique coupons or barcodes to each individual person and at the same time identify the person downloading it. This makes it possible to follow these individuals during the whole process from downloading until when and where the coupons are redeemed.\n\nAlthough the Internet introduced the concept of performance-based advertising, it is now spreading into other media.\n\nThe mobile telephone is increasingly used as a web browsing device, and can support both pay-per-click and pay-per-call plans.\nCoupons delivered to the mobile handset can be used to link advertising direct to sales.\nAs consumers start to use their mobile handset as an electronic payment device, it may become practical to establish direct linkage between advertising and purchases.\nThe linkage may be indirect.\nA consumer may use their mobile phone to scan a barcode on an outdoor advertisement. \nThis loads the advertiser's mobile site onto the phone.\nWhen the consumer shortly afterwards goes to the advertiser's store and uses their phone to make a purchase, the linkage can be inferred.\n\nDirectory assistance providers are starting to introduce advertising, particularly with \"Free DA\" services such as the Jingle Networks 1-800-FREE-411, the AT&T 1-800-YELLOWPAGES and the (now-defunct) Google 1-800-GOOG-411. \nThe advertiser pays when a caller listens to their advertisement, the equivalent of Internet CPM advertising, when they ask for additional information, or when they place a call.\n\nIPTV promises to eventually combine features of cable television and the Internet.\nViewers may see advertisements in a sidebar that are relevant to the show they are watching.\nThey may click on an advertisement to obtain more details, and this action can be measured and used to charge the advertiser.\n\nIt is even possible to directly measure the performance of print advertising. The publisher prints a special telephone number in the advertisement, used nowhere else. When a consumer places a call to that number, the call event is recorded and the call is routed to the regular number. In theory, the call could only have been generated because of the print advertisement. In practice, there is the risk that an inadvertent third party will find a number from an advertisement and submit it to an online or printed directory, causing it to receive additional calls for which the advertiser must pay individually as \"leads\" or enquiries. Some of the received calls may be misdirected product support requests from existing clients or even enquiries from suppliers, which are not new revenue and should not be counted as new leads. Toll-free telephone numbers are also notoriously prone to misdials which a company must pay to receive - often because a little-used number is one digit away from a major airline, hotel chain, hire car firm, bank or national franchise operator.\n\nA publisher may charge defined prices for performance-based advertising, so much per click or call, but it is common for prices to be set through some form of \"bidding\" or auction arrangement.\nThe advertiser states how much they are willing to pay for a user action, and the publisher provides feedback on how much other advertisers have offered. The actual amount paid may be lower than the amount bid, for example 1 cent more than the next highest bidder.\n\nA \"bidding\" plan does not guarantee that the highest bidder will always be presented in the most prominent advertising slot, or will gain the most user actions.\nThe publisher will want to earn the maximum revenue from each advertising slot, and may decide (based on actual results) that a lower bidder is likely to \nbring more revenue than a higher bidder - they will pay less but be selected more often.\n\nIn a competitive market, with many advertisers and many publications, defined prices and bid-based prices are likely to converge on the generally accepted value of an advertising action. This presumably reflects the expected sale value and the profit that will result from the sale. An item like a hotel room or airplane seat that loses all value if not sold may be priced at a higher ratio of sale value than an item like a bag of sand or box of nails that will retain its value over time.\n\nA number of companies provide products or services to help optimize the bidding process, including deciding which keywords the advertiser should bid on and which sites will give best performance.\n\nOther companies that offer straightforward pay for performance lead generation services, offer performance based pricing related to the quality or quantity of the lead.\n\nThere is the potential for fraud in performance-based advertising.\n\n\nSince the user's actions are being measured, there are serious concerns of loss of privacy.\n\nPerformance-based advertising mechanisms induce firms to distort the prices of their goods (usually upwards) relative to prices that would maximize profits in settings where advertising is sold under established pay-per-impression methods. Upward price distortions reduce both consumer surplus and the joint publisher-advertiser profit, leading to a net reduction in social welfare. Dellarocas (2010) discusses a number of ways in which performance-based advertising mechanisms can be enhanced to restore efficient pricing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293201", "title": "Petrochemical industry", "text": "Petrochemical industry\n\nThe petrochemical industry is concerned with the production and trade of petrochemicals. It directly interfaces with the petroleum industry, especially the downstream sector. A major part is constituted by the plastics (polymer) industry.\n\nThe top ten global petrochemical companies based on the 2008 revenues – excludes state-owned companies:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25480922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25480922", "title": "Richard Bache Jr.", "text": "Richard Bache Jr.\n\nRichard Franklin Bache, also known as Richard Bache Jr. (1784–1848), was a military and political official in the Republic and state of Texas. He assisted in drafting the Texas Constitution of 1845, the first of its five state constitutions.\n\nBache was born on March 11, 1784, at Philadelphia, the son of Richard Bache Sr., a marine insurance underwriter and importer. Bache Sr. had also served as United States Postmaster General from 1776 to 1782. About 1819, he was the publisher of the \"Franklin Gazette,\" a democratic newspaper in Philadelphia, along with John Norvell. John Norvell founded the \"Philadelphia Inquirer\" after leaving the Gazette and later moved to Michigan, where he was elected as one of the new state's first U.S. Senators.\n\nRichard's mother was Sarah Franklin Bache (September 11, 1743 – October 5, 1808), known as Sally, the only daughter of Benjamin Franklin, one of the Founding Fathers of the United States, and his common-law wife, Deborah Read.\n\nRichard grew up in a large family of eight. Among his siblings were his older brother, Benjamin Franklin Bache, a controversial newspaper publisher who died of yellow fever at the age of 29. One of Richard's nephews was Andrew A. Harwood, a naval officer who reached the rank of admiral.\n\nBache was educated in local schools as a boy. He attended the University of Pennsylvania, graduating in 1812.\n\nOn April 4, 1805, Bache married Sophia Burrell Dallas, the daughter of Arabella Maria Smith and Alexander J. Dallas. Her father later was appointed as the U.S. Treasury Secretary under President James Madison.\n\nRichard and Sophia had nine children together:\n\nHe served as a captain of the Franklin Flying Artillery of the Philadelphia Volunteers in the War of 1812. He also served in the United States Navy. He was later appointed as postmaster for Philadelphia.\n\nIn 1832 Bache abandoned his family, with likely five children still at home and three under the age of ten, and moved to Texas, possibly for financial reasons. He settled in Stephen F. Austin’s colony at Brazoria. He served on the \"Zavala\" in the Texas Navy. On May 1, 1836, he joined the Louisiana Independent Volunteers, commanded by J. J. Robinson, who were supporting the Texas War of Independence. While in service, he guarded the Mexican general Antonio López de Santa Anna after the Battle of San Jacinto.\n\nIn 1838-39 he served as chief clerk in the Navy Department at Houston. He was appointed as enrolling clerk of the House of Representatives in the Third Congress of the Texas Republic.\n\nIn 1842 Bache settled in Galveston, Texas, where he afterward held a number of appointed government posts of trust and responsibility. He became commissioner of the navy yard, and was appointed as collector of customs, and later as a justice of the peace for Galveston County. In 1845, he was elected as a delegate to the Texas Annexation Convention. He was the only elected official to vote against annexation, allegedly because he did not wish to enlarge the domain of his brother-in-law, George M. Dallas, then vice-president of the United States. He helped draft the Constitution of 1845. He was elected twice, to the First and Second Texas Legislatures, representing Galveston in the Texas Senate, District 11.\n\nHe died in Austin, Texas, on March 17, 1848, and is buried at Oakwood Cemetery, located in central Austin. It is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n"}
{"id": "45371911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45371911", "title": "Richard K. Fleischman", "text": "Richard K. Fleischman\n\nRichard K. Fleischman (born 1941) is an American accounting scholar and Emeritus Professor of Accounting at the John Carroll University, known for his work on accounting history.\n\nFleischman obtained his BA in History from Harvard College, and then moved to the State University of New York Buffalo, where he obtained his MA, his PhD in History, and an MBA with an accounting emphasis.\n\nFleischman started his academic career at the University of Hawaii in 1969, and taught history until 1981. In 1983 he moved to the John Carroll University, where he was Professor of Accounting until his retired in 2008. From 1986 to 1994 he chaired the Department of accountancy. The academy of Accounting Historians awarded him a Life Membership.\n\nFleischman's research interests are in the field of history and accounting, and particularly the \"UK Industrial revolution cost accounting and US municipal accounting during the Progressive Era.\"\n\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "34418660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34418660", "title": "Réseau Canopé", "text": "Réseau Canopé\n\nRéseau Canopé is a French public institution under the supervision of the French Ministry of Education. As the publishing arm of the National Education service, it performs editing, production and dissemination of educational and administrative resources for professional education. It contributes to the development of information and communication technologies in education (ICTs) as well as artistic and cultural education. \"Canopé\" stands for \"Conception et accompagnement des nouvelles offres pour l'éducation\" (\"Design and Support of New Offers for Education\").\n\nIn 2014, it replaced the National Centre for Educational Documentation (\"Centre national de documentation pédagogique\", CNDP) and its regional (CRDP) and departmental (CDDP) branches. These and a few other institutions formed the SCÉRÉN network (\"Services, Culture, Éditions, Ressources pour l'Éducation nationale\": \"Services, Culture, Publishing, Resources for National Education\").\n\nThe network also includes:\n\n"}
{"id": "40748227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40748227", "title": "Tata Elxsi", "text": "Tata Elxsi\n\nTata Elxsi is an Indian design company and a part of the Tata Group. It provides design and technology services for product engineering and solutions across industries including broadcast, communications, and automotive. It has various business units like broadcast, transport, communication, industrial design, and medical.\n\nIt has design studios, development centers, and offices worldwide. Tata Elxsi is a listed company and headquartered in Bangalore, India. Apart from Bangalore, it also has offices in Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Trivandrum, Kolkata and Chandigarh.\n\nThe key services of Tata Elxsi are:\n\n"}
{"id": "27436022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27436022", "title": "Trivandrum Rubber Works", "text": "Trivandrum Rubber Works\n\nTrivandrum Rubber Works is a public sector manufacturing industry in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, India.\nIts manufactured products include, retreaded metals, bonding gum and unvulcanised sheets. It was promoted by Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC).\n\nThe factory was opened by Sree Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma, the then King of Travancore Kingdom, to manufacture rubber sheets for tents for the soldiers of the Second World War. It is located on of land at Chakkai, Thiruvananthapuram.\n\nTrivandrum Rubber Works was the first factory to be set up in the public sector in Asia.\n"}
{"id": "44232467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44232467", "title": "Uchechukwu Sampson Ogah", "text": "Uchechukwu Sampson Ogah\n\nUchechukwu S. Ogah (born 22 December 1969) is a Nigerian oil magnate, entrepreneur, investor and philanthropist. Ogah is the President of Master Energy Group, a conglomerate with over 15 subsidiaries and interests across a variety of industries. Ogah holds the Nigerian national honour, the Officer of the Order of the Niger (OON)\n\nOgah was born to Chief Wilson and Ezinne Pauline Ogah of Onuaku Uturu,Isuikwuato Local Government Area of Abia State. \n\nOgah attended Ishiagu High School, after which he worked at West African Examination Council (WAEC) from 1986–89, before he proceeded to the Institute of Management and Technology (IMT), Enugu State where he obtained Upper Credit at Ordinary National Diploma (OND) in 1992 and Distinction at the Higher National Diploma (HND) Level in 1995 in Accounting. He also attended University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN) where he obtained a Postgraduate Diploma in 2005. He also has a Bachelor of Science degree (Banking and Finance) from Ogun State University and a Masters in Business Administration (MBA) from University of Lagos. Ogah obtained his ACA in 2007. He is a Fellow, Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN); Fellow, Institute of Brand Management of Nigeria; Fellow, Nigerian Institute of Shipping; Fellow, Employment & Career and member, Chartered Institute of Bankers.\n\nOgah began his career as a banker with a year of National Youth Service year at NAL Bank Plc. Thereafter, he took up full employment at All States Trust Bank where he worked for around two years before joining Zenith Bank in 1997. At Zenith Bank, he set a record of growing a new branch from zero balance sheets to over N9 billion and rose to the position of an Assistant General Manager (AGM) in Zenith Bank.\n\nIn December, 2001, Ogah established Uche Ogah Foundation which aims to provide empowerment, poverty alleviation, and providing education for the less privileged.\n\nHe had sponsored free medical services in different parts of Nigeria, in addition to building and equipping a number of modern hospitals in his native community, Uturu and other communities in Nigeria. He also partnered with a number of medical centres, including the Hopeville Rehabilitation Centre, to fabricate artificial limbs and calipers for people with a disability.\n\nIn 2014, Ogah was awarded, a national award - the Officer of the Order of the Niger (OON) by the Federal government of Nigeria\n\nHis other awards and honours include:\n\nOgah's professional memberships include:\n\nFellow, Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN)\nFellow, Institute of Brand Management of Nigeria\nFellow, Nigerian Institute of Shipping; \nFellow, Employment & Career \nMember, Chartered Institute of Bankers\nMember, Governing Council of the Nigeria-Turkey Chamber of Commerce and Industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "39497653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39497653", "title": "Wall Street West", "text": "Wall Street West\n\nWall Street West is a name used by real estate developers, city officials and news media in the United States to call particular streets or places west of Manhattan that have a high concentration of Wall Street companies or a major exchange. The most notable for that is along the waterfront of Jersey City, New Jersey.\n\nFor those locations in the Western United States, the name \"Wall Street of the West\" has been used in the latter part of the 19th century. Montgomery Street in San Francisco has been known by that nickname to date. A couple of other places were known by that name for a period of time and that was faded away when the industry moved out to other areas.\n\nThe Montgomery Street in San Francisco started its transformation from the street with wood shacks, warehouses and retail stores in the 1850s. By the 1870s, more notable buildings were constructed to replace the old wood shacks and the mud flats. The street continued to develop from that point with financial services companies located in that area. The Montgomery Street has been known as \"Wall Street of the West\" to date. The Financial District has been expanded to cover the triangular area east of Grant Avenue, south of Washington Street, west of the Embarcadero. In 2012, when the Occupy movement had a protest at the San Francisco's Financial District as a continuation of Occupy San Francisco, the protesters went through the financial district under the banner \"Occupy Wall Street West\" giving the shorter name of the financial district than its typical name as Wall Street of the West.\n\nFor Denver, Colorado, the city started picking up some shares of commercial buildings in the late 19th century. There was a push by the local politicians to transform its Seventeenth Street to become the \"Wall Street of the Denver\" as seen in an 1892 pamphlet in promoting the Equitable Building by the Equitable Life Assurance Society. Other buildings were constructed at other corners of the 17th Street such as the Boston Building in 1890 and the Ideal Cement Building in 1907. By that time, the 17th Street had been referred as \"Wall Street of the West\". After the Colorado National Bank (First National Bank) was constructed in 1911, it reaffirmed its central business district's Wall Street status. The 17th Street was also called \"Wall Street of the Rockies\" at a later time as it attracted other premier financial institutions.\n\nLos Angeles also picked up a fair share of financial companies starting in the early part of the 1900s. The new financial buildings were concentrating along South Spring Street. The title of \"Wall Street of the West\" was used and the Spring Street Financial District was born. The district continued to flourish for many decades until the 1960s when companies started shifting toward the western part of the downtown area. By the early 1980s, many buildings were empty and the Spring Street showed no sign of its past as one of the financial centers.\n\nFort Worth, Texas was known as the \"Wall Street of the West\" starting in the early 1900s similarly to Los Angeles's South Spring Street. However, it was not the financial companies that gave Fort Worth Stockyards its Wall Street name, but the livestock trading. In 1902, the Livestock Exchange Building was constructed to house many livestock commission companies, telegraph offices, railroad offices and other support businesses. The business grew to the peak at 1944 which processed 5,277,496 head of livestock. After that year, the livestock exchange business started to decline until its low point in 1986. The Livestock Exchange Building is now a historical site.\n\nIn the 1980s, some financial companies started moving from Manhattan to the west of the Hudson River to settle in the waterfront area of Jersey City, New Jersey. The area earned the name of \"Wall Street West\" after Bankers Trust had a major relocation to Jersey City in 1985. Other major financial firms followed shortly after with National Westminster Bank of London building its domestic subsidiary there. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette (DLJ) moved into a new 20-story building in the Exchange Place area. The new Harborside Financial Center were built with anticipation of more relocations. Daiwa Securities, Royal Bank of Canada, and Chase Manhattan Bank were planning to have their major workforce there.\n\nAnother major development in Exchange Place started with a plan to redevelop the 34-acre former Colgate-Palmolive soap factory in 1988. The first building was 101 Hudson Street with more than 3,000 back-office workers of Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers moved in by 1993.\n\nOn the northern side of Jersey City's waterfront, another major development called Newport was started in the late 1980s. It was planned as a mixed-use community with office, residential and retail buildings. By early 2001, Newport had gained major tenants including UBS, Knight Capital, and Insurance Services Office By that time, the \"Wall Street West\" expanded to include the entire waterfront area from Newport to Exchange Place.\n\nAfter the September 11 attacks, there were renewed interests from financial firms to diversify their workforce to be outside of Manhattan. At the same time, there were immediate needs to find office space for misplaced workers who used to work in the Lower Manhattan area. Office space in Jersey City's waterfront became boom again due to its proximity to Lower Manhattan and the ferry services which were not affected by the attacks. By the end of September 2001, ten of the largest 18 firms from the World Trade Center area including American Express and Deutsche Bank moved some of their operations to Jersey City. Goldman Sachs at the time were planning to move its headquarters to the new building being constructed in Jersey City.\n\nThe boom since 2001 had been short live. By 2007, the vacancy rate had increased and some financial firms had scaled down their plans. UBS changed their plan not to fully occupy the newly constructed building. Goldman Sachs only partially occupied its building and planned to build a new headquarters in New York. The Wall Street West suffered further by the 2008 financial crisis. The office space vacancy rate spiked up as investment bank tenants started collapsing. The downturn economy had dampen the real estate growth in this area for many years.\n\nAs the economy started to slowly recover between 2011 and 2012, large leases started to pick up again especially in the Newport area with major financial institutions such as Citigroup and Fidelity Investments. Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation also moved the majority of its workforce from Manhattan to Jersey City.\n\nCurrently, the \"Wall Street West\" employment contributes to one third of the private sector jobs in Jersey City. Within the Financial Service cluster, there are three major sectors: more than 60 percent are in the securities industry; 20 percent are in banking; and 8 percent in insurance.\n\nAfter the September 11 attacks, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency recommended that the data backup facilities of Wall Street firms should be moved away from New York City with a different power grid, transportation network and watershed than New York. In 2006, Governor of Pennsylvania, Ed Rendell, announced the creation of \"Wall Street West\" initiative to attract 20 potential Wall Street firms to move their backup facilities to Northeastern Pennsylvania in nine counties:Northampton, Berks, Monroe, Carbon, Pike, Wayne, Luzerne and Lackawanna. He also pledged to invest in office space construction, infrastructure improvement and installation of fiber optic from New York City to the region. The region was chosen as it was still within the from Manhattan which was considered far enough to sustain major disaster but still within the range of instantaneous data transmission via fiber optic. The first project was Penn Regional Business Center in Monroe County.\n\nAt the beginning of the initiative, Ben Franklin Technology Partners of Northeast Pennsylvania (BFTP/NEP), a state-funded economic development network, worked closely with the Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry and Community and Economic Development to develop a proposal for the federal grants through Workforce Innovation in Regional Economic Development (WIRED). The management was later turned to an independent unit called Wall Street West with a 17-member Executive Committee.\n\nIn June 2007, the initiative received an $8 million commitment from Level 3 Communications for a $40 million project to build a new fiber optic network from Manhattan to East Stroudsburg with a branched-off network in Warren County in New Jersey. This was to address the shortcoming of direct high-speed communication which was required by Wall Street firms. However, by June 2008, the initiative was unable to attract any Wall Street firm to the region with an exception of one financial services related company. A company which hosted compliance solutions for financial services opened its new data center in the region with 10 job creation. By that time, Level 3 Communications indicated that it would not build the fiber optic link unless more financial services firms commit to locate in the region and buy services from them. Part of the difficulties in attracting more companies was that many financial institutions were more comfortable with the shorter range of from Manhattan which caused many financial firms to build out their new data centers in Central Jersey instead.\n\nWithout a commitment from financial services companies, the decision was made in 2009 to expand the Wall Street West mission to include healthcare, advanced materials and diversified manufacturing, and logistics and transportation industries.\n"}
{"id": "51973388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51973388", "title": "Waste Industries", "text": "Waste Industries\n\nWaste Industries is a provider of non-hazardous solid waste and recycling collection, transfer, and disposal company in the southeast United States. The company has over 1.9 million service points.\n\nThe company is dedicated to creating a better world through its Full Circle Project. In 2007, Waste Industries also began the process of reducing its number of diesel trucks with compressed natural gas powered trucks.\n\nOn October 10, 2018, the company announced its intentions to merge with a Canadian company for an undisclosed amount. The company will continue to operate as Waste Industries in the US and will be headquartered in Raleigh, North Carolina.\n\nWaste Industries was created as a waste disposal firm in 1970 by Lonnie Poole Jr. who used funds from the sale of his Ohio home and borrowed money from Gregory Poole, Owner of a local construction company, to create the company. The initial idea of Waste Industries stemmed from market research Poole conducted, while concepting a new mobile landfill compactor while he was living in Ohio. His compactor idea failed, but Poole soon discovered his calling, and started Waste Industries in Raleigh, North Carolina.\n\nAfter a few years, of stagnation, the company grew in the 1970s and quickly expanded past Wake county and the city of Raleigh. By 1980 the company had reached ten million dollars in revenue and soon after, they named their first employee, Jim Perry, as President and Chief Operating Officer.\n\nIn 1997, with an estimated revenue of $100 million, Waste Industries went public. The company continued to grow that year with an estimated 20 branches, 11 transfer stations and 4 recycling facilities under its belt.\n\nIn 2000 Waste Industries went through a tech revolution and updated its website. With the website upgrade they also became the first company on the east-coast to incorporate e-billing for waste pick-up customers. \nIn 2008, the company went private again and experienced a restructuring in its management. Vern Poole, son of original owner Lonnie Poole and long-time company leader, would become Chairman and CEO and would create his personal board. Greg Yorston would later become Chief Operating Office, Steve Grissiom Chief Financial Officer, and Lisa Inman Senior Vice President and General Counsel.\n\nIn 2010, North Carolina State University unveiled a wall display highlighting original Waste Industries founder Lonnie Poole as well as the progress Waste Industries has made over the years as it has grown. Poole is a longtime supporter of NC State and provided major investments to create their graduate business degree programs after switching schools to get his MBA due to the lack of a program upon his graduation from NC State with his bachelor’s degree.\n\nAs of 2014, the company was valued at $570 million with over 1600 employees.\n\nOn October 10, 2018, the company announced it was going to be sold off to a Canadian Company, GFL Environmental, for an undisclosed amount.\n\nIn 2014, Waste Industries created the Full Circle Project. The Full Circle Project allows employees and customers to give to their favorite non-profit through Waste Industries. To date, Waste Industries has given close to $1 million in non-profit donations.\n\n"}
{"id": "31474236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31474236", "title": "WhereScape", "text": "WhereScape\n\nWhereScape is a privately held international Data Warehouse Automation & Big Data software company with offices in Auckland, New Zealand, Portland, Oregon, USA, Reading, United Kingdom, Pune, India & Singapore.\n\nWhereScape was founded as a data warehouse consulting company in Auckland, New Zealand in 1997 by co-founders Michael Whitehead (President) and Wayne Richmond. The company was formerly named Profit Management Systems, but officially renamed to WhereScape in 2001 when expanding business operations into the USA.\n\nWhereScape operates out of regional headquarters in Auckland, New Zealand; Portland, Oregon, USA; Reading, United Kingdom; and Singapore. As of 2015 the company has over 720 customers in more than 15 countries and a turnover of around $20 million (NZD). Sales channels vary by country but can be either direct sales or through local partners. WhereScape also has partnerships with third-party companies that embed WhereScape software in their solutions.\n\nWhereScape currently offers two main products: WhereScape RED and WhereScape 3D.\n\nAs of November 2017, version numbers between the two have been aligned and the current stable version is 8.0.1.0.\n"}
{"id": "33913491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33913491", "title": "Wilhelm Edner", "text": "Wilhelm Edner\n\nWilhelm Edner (born 1868, date of death unknown) was a Swedish businessman and writer. He was born in Malmö, Sweden. In 1894 founded its first coffee business in Malmö, Sweden. In 1919, he founded the company Bona AB, which specialized in wood protection.\n"}
{"id": "38148632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38148632", "title": "Ziad Takieddine", "text": "Ziad Takieddine\n\nZiad Takieddine ( ; born 14 June 1950) is a Lebanese-French businessman, described by \"The Telegraph\" as an \"arms broker\".\n\nZiad Takieddine was born on 14 June 1950 in Baakline, Lebanon into a Druze family. His uncle Saiid Takieddine was Lebanese Ambassador in London, and his father was Ambassador in various countries. He was educated at the American University in Beirut and the University of Reading in England.\n\nIn the 1990s, he was the manager of the Isola 2000 ski resort in Isola, Alpes-Maritimes, France.\n\nHe later facilitated arms dealing between France and Middle East countries, including Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Syria and Libya. He is under investigation for allegedly using some of those funds to finance the unsuccessful presidential campaign of former French Prime Minister Edouard Balladur. This has led to the Karachi affair.\n\nHe facilitated the release of Bulgarian nurses from Libya and organized Libya President Muammar Gaddafi's 2007 visit to France. He has since accused former French President Nicolas Sarkozy of taking 5 million euros from Libyan President Muammar Gaddafi from 2006 to 2007 to finance his presidential campaign, a claim echoed by Saif al-Islam Gaddafi.\n\nHis ex-wife, Nicola Johnson, is British-born. She has accused him of tax evasion in France. Takieddine owns Warwick House in London's Holland Park district via a company in the tax haven of the British Virgin Islands. In 2013 Takieddine was denied entry to the United Kingdom following an \"allegation of fraud\" and was forced by British police to return to France.\n\nTakieddine is an uncle of Amal Alamuddin, who is married to the actor George Clooney.\n"}
{"id": "26394600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26394600", "title": "‘Uliti Uata", "text": "‘Uliti Uata\n\nʻUliti Uata (born 24 August 1936) is a Tongan politician. He is a member of the Human Rights and Democracy Movement and the Democratic Party of the Friendly Islands.\n\nHe was initially a businessman, running several businesses including \"inter-islands ferries, general store, tourism, and others\", until he entered politics and \"divested himself\" of his businesses so as to focus on his political career and on his family (he has ten children).\n\nUata was first elected to the Legislative Assembly of Tonga in 1975, and served as a People's Representative until 1980. After a break from politics, he contested the 1993 election and won the seat of Ha'apai. He has been re-elected in every subsequent election.\n\nIn 2007 Uata was one of several pro-democracy MPs charged with sedition over speeches given before the 2006 Nuku'alofa riots. The charges were dismissed in September 2009.\n\nUata was re-elected for an eighth term in the 2010 election, for the new single-seat constituency of Haʻapai 13, and nominated to the post of Minister of Health on 25 January 2011, following ʻAkilisi Pohiva's resignation from that position. In late June 2012, Uata -along with two other ministers- resigned from the Cabinet, so as to support a motion of no confidence tabled by his party (DPFI) against the government. He was succeeded as Minister for Health by Lord Tuʻiʻafitu.\n"}
