{"id": "26327468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26327468", "title": "Academic Staff Union of Universities", "text": "Academic Staff Union of Universities\n\nThe Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) is a Nigerian union of university academic staff, founded in 1978.\n\nThe ASUU was formed in 1978, a successor to the Nigerian Association of University Teachers formed in 1965 and covering academic staff in all of the Federal and State Universities in the country.\n\nThe union was active in struggles against the military regime during the 1980s.\nIn 1988 the union organized a National Strike to obtain fair wages and university autonomy. As a result, the ASUU was proscribed on 7 August 1988 and all its property seized. It was allowed to resume in 1990, but after another strike was again banned on 23 August 1992. However, an agreement was reached on 3 September 1992 that met several of the union's demands including the right of workers to collective bargaining. The ASUU organized further strikes in 1994 and 1996, protesting against the dismissal of staff by the Sani Abacha military regime.\n\nAfter the return to democracy in 1999 with the Nigerian Fourth Republic, the union continued to be militant in demanding the rights of university workers against opposition by the government of President Olusegun Obasanjo.\nIn July 2002 Dr. Oladipo Fashina, the then national president of the union,petitioned Justice Mustapha Akanbi of the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission to investigate the authorities of the University of Ilorin for financial mismanagement and corruption.\n\nIn 2007, the ASUU went on strike for three months.\nIn May 2008, it held two one-week \"warning strikes\" to press a range of demands, including an improved salary scheme and reinstatement of 49 lecturers who were dismissed many years earlier.\nIn June 2009, ASUU ordered its members in federal and state universities nationwide to proceed on an indefinite strike over disagreements with the Federal Government on an agreement it reached with the union about two and a half years earlier.\nAfter three months of strikes, in October 2009, the union and other staff unions signed a memorandum of understanding with the government and called off the industrial action. On 1 July 2013, ASUU embarked on another strike which lasted 5 months and 15 days was called off on 16 December 2013. Claims made by ASUU in regards to the strike are centered largely on funding and revitalization of Nigerian public universities as well as a certain earned allowance which it claims to be in an arrears of 92 billion naira. Some Nigerian students said that the strike was a curse to them while others said it was a blessing before the ASUU strike was called.\n"}
{"id": "13692133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13692133", "title": "Academy of Athens (modern)", "text": "Academy of Athens (modern)\n\nThe Academy of Athens (, \"Akadimía Athinón\") is Greece's national academy, and the highest research establishment in the country. It was established in 1926, and operates under the supervision of the Ministry of Education. The Academy's main building is one of the major landmarks of Athens.\n\nThe organization of the Academy of Athens, whose title hearkens back to the ancient Academy of Plato, was first established on 18 March 1926, and its charter was ratified by the law 4398/1929. This charter, with subsequent amendments, is still valid and governs the Academy's affairs. According to it, the Academy is divided into three Orders: Natural Sciences, Letters and Arts, Moral and Political Sciences.\n\nThe Academy today, maintains 14 research centres, seven research offices and the \"Ioannis Sykoutris\" central library. In 2002, the Foundation for Biomedical Research of the Academy of Athens was established. The Hellenic Institute for Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice also functions under the supervision of the Academy.\n\nFrom its foundation, the Academy of Athens has been a member of the International Association of Academies (AIA), and the International Council of Scientific Unions (ICSU). It also participates in the following body: All European Academies (ALLEA), European Academies Science Advisory Council (EASAC), Inter Academy Council (IAC), Inter Academy Medical Panel (IAMP).\n\nThe main building of the Academy is a neoclassical building between Panepistimiou Street and Akadimias Street in the centre of Athens. The building was designed as part of an architectural \"trilogy\" in 1859 by the Danish architect Theophil Hansen, along with the University and the National Library. Funds had been provided by the magnate Simon Sinas specifically for the purpose, and the foundation stone was laid on 2 August 1859. Construction proceeded rapidly, after 1861 under the supervision of Ernst Ziller, but the internal tumults during the latter years of King Otto's reign, which resulted in his ousting in 1862, hampered construction until it was stopped in 1864. Works resumed in 1868, but the building was not completed until 1885, at a total cost of 2,843,319 gold drachmas, most of it provided by Sinas, and, after his death, by his wife Ifigeneia.\n\nThe Greek neo-classical sculptor Leonidas Drosis sculpted the principle multi-figure pediment sculpture, on the theme of the birth of Athena, based on a design by painter Carl Rahl. This brought first prize at the Vienna Exhibition of 1873. Drosis is also responsible for the figures of Athena and Apollo with lyre on the Academy's flanking pillars, and the seated marble figures of Plato and Socrates, which were executed \"by the Italian sculptor Piccarelli\". The eight smaller pediments in the Academy complex are the terra-cotta work of Austrian sculptor Franz Melnitzky. Interior murals and paintings were done by the Austrian artist Christian Griepenkerl.\n\nOn 20 March 1887, the building of the \"Sinaean Academy\", as it was called, was delivered by Ziller to the Greek Prime Minister, Charilaos Trikoupis. In the absence of a national Academy, the building was used for housing the Numismatic Museum in 1890, and in 1914 the Byzantine Museum and the State Archives. Finally, on 24 March 1926, the building was handed over to the newly established Academy of Athens.\n\nThe Academy of Athens was recently selected as main motif for a high value euro collectors' coin; the €100 Greek Academy of Athens commemorative coin, minted in 2004 to commemorate the 2004 Summer Olympics. In the obverse of the coin, a close view of the building is depicted. The intention was to highlight the premise that in the city of Athena, the Olympic Games should not only be the most important athletic event, but also reflect equal importance toward intellectual and cultural activities. All three should be equivalent to the style and character of the city that was the birthplace and the matrix for the revival of the modern Olympic Games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51738550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51738550", "title": "Accademia di Belle Arti di Urbino", "text": "Accademia di Belle Arti di Urbino\n\nThe Accademia di Belle Arti di Urbino is an academy of fine arts located in Urbino, Marche. It was founded in 1967.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "15759888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15759888", "title": "Alfaisal University", "text": "Alfaisal University\n\nAlfaisal University is a private, nonprofit, research institute of higher education located in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.\n\nFounded in 2002 by the King Faisal Foundation as a nonprofit student-centered university, Alfaisal University opened its doors and admitted its first 80 students in 2008. Alfaisal's total enrollment now exceeds 2500. The enrollment is 67% Saudi National with the remaining 33% being students from over 40 other nations. The total number of faculty is nearly 200 with international faculty from 31 countries. The Board of Trustees includes representatives from five firms, four international firms, and a representative from the Ministry of Education.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34887534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34887534", "title": "ArtsBridge", "text": "ArtsBridge\n\nArtsBridge is a university scholarship program in the United States created by Lawrence University president Jill Beck in April 1996 when she was dean of the Claire Trevor School of the Arts at the University of California, Irvine. She brought together groups of local elementary pupils to receive arts training from UCI arts majors. It was designed to attract public and private funding to support scholarships for top arts graduate and undergraduate students who commit themselves to teaching their speciality to one or more classes of K-12 pupils in local schools.\n\nThe program was a response to two perceived needs: (1) to provide financial aid to university students and (2) to help primary and secondary schools whose arts budgets had been wiped out by several economic downturns in California, including the passage in 1978 of Proposition 13 which restricted property taxes to such an extent that educational commitments to the state's children could not be met. \"ArtsBridge Scholars\" aimed to fill in the arts gap by partnering with classroom teachers and teaching dance, drama, music or studio arts directly to pupils, requiring no payment from the schools' budgets and often providing the classes with musical instruments, cameras, and other physical accessories necessary to each art.\n\nUCI drama professor Keith Fowler served as the original director of ArtsBridge. Aware that hundreds of new Scholars were still not enough to fill arts needs uniformly for so many schools, Fowler built relationships with those schools who signed on to a four-year plan stating that every pupil would progress from a year in studio art, to music, then dance, and finally drama. The purpose of the plan was not only to guarantee arts on a consistent basis but to help research scholars by providing pupil subjects with stable exposure to the arts. In 1998, with the encouragement of then California Secretary of Education, Marian Bergeson, the state legislature granted funding to spread the ArtsBridge program to eight campuses of the University of California. The various campuses modeled their programs initially on Fowler's documentation, including the master manual, begun in 1997 and updated through 2001, \"Bridging the Gap\". Fowler resigned his post in 2003.\n\nThroughout America, local school districts have responded to funding crises by drastic cutting of arts programs, ignoring clear evidence that regular exposure to the arts \"significantly\" enhances learning as shown in SAT scores in mathematics, science, and other \"traditional\" academics. ArtsBridge is an educational success story, its importance attested to by conference proceedings and internal studies as well as independent papers by experts like Maureen Burns. It is one of the few programs helping to maintain or restore the arts to American school children. It has gained support from such private sources as the Dana Foundation and from local government programs, and has grown into a supra-national network, \"ArtsBridge America,\" of thirty-one universities in sixteen states and Northern Ireland. Beck remains active as its national director, with an immediate support staff of Liane Brouillete and Jasmine Yep.\nK-12 administrators, educators, principals, and classroom teachers who seek arts education for their pupils, either to supplement an existing program or to bring art, dance, music, or drama to their classes for the first time may consult the list of ArtsBridge America sites to find an chapter nearest them and make application. Here are the sites listed for ArtsBridge America in 2012, but not all may be accepting applications:\n\n"}
{"id": "9936437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9936437", "title": "Arts integration", "text": "Arts integration\n\nArts integration is an approach to teaching that integrates the fine and performing arts as primary pathways to learning. Arts integration differs from traditional education by its inclusion of both the arts discipline and a traditional subject as part of learning (e.g. using improvisational drama skills to learn about conflict in writing.) The goal of arts integration is to increase knowledge of a general subject area while concurrently fostering a greater understanding and appreciation of the fine and performing arts. The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts defines arts integration as \"an approach to teaching in which students construct and demonstrate understanding through an art form. Students engage in a creative process which connects an art form and another subject and meets evolving objectives.\"\n\nArts integration is related to arts education in schools. Arts education, while existing in different forms during the 19th century, gained popularity as part of John Dewey's Progressive Education Theory. The first publication that describes a seamless interplay between the arts and other subjects (arts integration) taught in American schools was Leon Winslow's \"The Integrated School Art Program (1939).\" For the remainder of the 20th century, arts education's role in public schools ebbed and flowed with the country's political leanings and financial well-being.\n\nAccording to Liora Bresler, during the 1970s and 1980s, two advocates for arts integration emerged: Harry Broudy and Elliot Eisner. Broudy advocated for the arts on the basis of strengthening the imagination. Broudy viewed imagination as an essential component of learning that should be cultivated in schools, and he advocated for the integration of aesthetic education into all subject matters in his work,\" Enlightened Cherishing\". Eisner followed Broudy, citing that the arts were important to varying types of cognition. He believed that arts brought about a deeper understanding of the world due to their interactivity—the arts move learning beyond what is written or read.\n\nCassandra B. Whyte emphasized the importance of artistic experiences for students to encourage creative and independent thought processes that would be important throughout an individual's lifetime. The arts helped students with problem solving and decision making and those processing experiences could be adapted in general life situations. Whyte advocated including aspects of art education with locus of control identification counseling experiences to help higher education students develop confidence in their unique problem solving abilities in the classroom and in life.\n\nFormerly, No Child Left Behind legislation describes arts education as \"essential to every child's education,\" and include it as one of the Core Subjects. No Child Left Behind legislation also emphasizes accountability through assessment (often taking the form of the standardized test.) While no standardized assessment has been mandated in any of the arts, the need for academic accountability in the arts, as well as in other academic subject areas, has led to increased research on and advocacy of arts integration and its impact on student learning.\n\nCurrently, Common Core and close adaptions of it are changing the way schools approach learning. Common Core's approach to art integration is that it enhances education by making learning interesting and fun. With Common Core becoming the norm for many school districts through the United States, teachers are integrating art into the classroom now more than ever. The rise of popularity in art integration has increased the amount of resources available to include the classroom, making it easier than ever to use art integration in the classroom. \n\nArts advocacy discourse currently presents two main opposing views in support of arts in education. The first points to economic grounds that art teaches \"21st-century skills\" like collaboration and innovation, which are necessary only as a means to breed productivity for the growth of the market. The second, alternative approach focuses instead on the philosophical value of creative inquiry that art instills in students, arguing lifelong development with no end in mind as a necessary habit borne out of an arts education. Tension between the utilitarian, workplace-focused view and the educational, growth-centered framework on advocacy continues to shape and reshape the arts education universe as revisions to the National Core Arts Standards reflect fluctuations in advocacy rhetoric. \n\nThe impetus for the arts integration is a growing body of research that demonstrates how learners experience success when taught why and how to use music, visual art, drama/dance, theatre and the literary arts to both express and understand ideas, thoughts and feelings. Critical Links, a compendium published by the Arts Education Partnership (AEP), includes 62 studies which examine the relationship between arts learning, academic achievement, and social development of students. Highlights include studies which explore the use of drama to increase students' reading comprehension and studies which examine the relationship between music and math concepts. The Arts Education Partnership has also published The Third Space, which profiles ten arts-integrated schools across the United States.\n\nAnother American organization conducting research in arts integration is the Chicago Arts Partnerships in Education. It has published, through Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Renaissance in the Classroom: Arts Integration and Meaningful Learning. The book, edited by Gail Burnaford, Ph.D, former professor at Northwestern University and current professor at Florida Atlantic University; Cynthia Weiss, teaching artist and former CAPE associate (2000 to 2002); and Arnold Aprill, CAPE's Founding & Creative Director, combines the contributions of two-hundred seventy-two participants in CAPE's arts integration partnerships. James Catterall, arts education researcher and professor at University of California, Los Angeles's Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, has collaborated with CAPE on publications.\n\nHarvard University's Graduate School of Education supports Project Zero, an educational research group founded in 1967 by Nelson Goodman, which investigates learning in the arts. Former directors of Project Zero include David Perkins and Howard Gardner. Currently, it is directed by Steve Seidel, and has expanded its research in arts learning to include other branches of education. Howard Gardner's Theory of multiple intelligences has been used as part of the rationale for the use of integrated arts models in teaching and learning.\n\nFor over 30 years, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, D.C., has been offering arts integration learning opportunities for educators. Locally, through its Changing Education Through the Arts (CETA) program, the Kennedy Center provides professional learning for Washington, D.C. area educators that are implementing arts integration in their classrooms or teaching about an art form. To develop a school-wide culture of arts integration, a network of CETA schools partner with the Kennedy Center to engage their teachers in in-depth professional learning focused on arts integration. The CETA program has added to the research about the impact of arts integration on students, teachers, and school culture through multiple evaluation studies. To reach educators throughout the nation, the Kennedy Center hosts an annual Arts Integration Conference, in which educators actively explore arts integration concepts and strategies. The Kennedy Center’s online resource, ARTSEDGE, also hosts a web series of arts integration resources that explain the ‘what’ and ‘why’ of arts integration, provides examples of arts integration in practice, and links to a range of resources. A series of Kennedy Center Seminars for Teaching Artists that focus on arts integration, as well as practices for developing strong arts-integrated residencies for students and workshops for teachers are available throughout the nation. A National Seminar for Teaching Artists is offered bi-annually at the Kennedy Center during the summer. \nThree other Kennedy Center national initiatives support practices and partnerships in arts integration and arts education: Any Given Child, Partners in Education, and VSA.\n\nThe Kennedy Center Partners in Education, headquartered in Washington, DC, is an organization that has promoted arts integration for over two decades. While The Kennedy Center does conduct research in arts learning, they also provide networking opportunities for arts education programs nationwide through The Kennedy Center Alliance for Arts Education Network KCAAEN. This organization advocates for arts education, fosters collaboration between artists and schools to support arts learning, develops and conducts professional development in arts education for teachers, and recognizes achievement in the arts.\n\nSince the 1980s, Lesley University in Cambridge, MA, has been educating classroom teachers across the US in the implementation of arts integration through a professional development master's degree program. A 2012 research study, funded by the Ford Foundation, has found that teachers who graduate from the program and integrate the arts into their teaching are more resilient and remain committed to their profession. Their students engage in deep learning through arts integrated activities, leading to a greater interest in school.\n\nThe College of Education at University of South Florida Sarasota-Manatee located in Sarasota, FL, has adopted arts-integration across of all its educator preparation programs, providing training for teachers, leaders, and specialists who take on educational roles in their careers. Through its Center for Partnerships for Arts-Integrated Teaching (PAInT), the College conducts research and service activities that benefits their students and the entire region.\n\nArtsNow provides professional development training for educators, focused on building the skills needed to integrate arts across the curriculum. Through the innovative Foundational Training course, teachers learn to identify opportunities to integrate all art forms - visual, dance, and music - into lessons in all class subjects for grades K-12, meeting both state and national curriculum standards (including Common Core standards). ArtsNow offers free Ignite Curriculum Guides through its website.\n\nEducationCloset provides professional development in arts integration and innovation in teaching. With an annual Arts Integration conference, Arts Integrated Curriculum, courses, webinars and publications available, teachers, artists, arts educators, administrators, and arts advocates can find rigorous, high-quality resources for Arts Integration which connect to Common Core State Standards and STEM.\n\nWith a focus on the classroom practice of arts integration, a nonprofit called Arts Integration Solutions (formerly the Opening Minds through the Arts Foundation) provides professional development for teachers and program planning and implementation for schools and school districts. AiS has developed a set of tenets that are the basis for arts integration and a cycle that helps teachers develop daily lessons in math, science, reading and writing that use the arts to fully engage students. AiS has developed programming for use of arts integration in teaching the STEM subjects (science, technology, engineering and math) and Literacy.\n\nThe three major skills in education that are considered the “core” subjects to teach students include math, writing, and reading comprehension. These important areas are considered by many the tools for success for student achievement. A consequence of predominately emphasizing these three areas of academic study is a lack of attention to other major areas of academics, mainly the arts. Viewing the arts as insignificant has had a major impact on teaching creativity to students.\n\nThe importance of teaching the arts to students has recently been viewed as less essential than teaching other core studies, particularly by school administrators. Educational institutions are attempting to maintain federal standards to receive government funding. These standards focus predominantly on subjects such as English and math and are also highly emphasized during standardized testing. If schools can improve student achievement within these areas, they do not become vulnerable to a loss or reduction in federal funding. Robin Pogrebin of the New York Times states, “In a time when President Bush’s “No Child Left Behind” policy emphasizes test results, the arts do not easily lend themselves to quantifiable measurements”. Therefore, schools are placing a large emphasis on teaching students to excel in these areas of study. This includes more time allotted for the instruction of these classes as well as a large amount of the school budget to enhance these courses.\n\nWhile a sizable amount of the educational budget is spent on these important areas of academic study, schools are finding that there is less money for what some would consider as non-essential courses, such as higher level music and art. According to the academic journal The Electronic Musician, “On March 2, 2011, both the House and Senate agreed to eliminate a number of small education programs at the U.S. Department of Education, including the complete defunding of the Arts in Education program, a $40 million fund that supports competitive grants and national initiatives”. While small reductions to budgets are common during a recession, some states have reduced their arts budgets drastically. According to the Teaching Artists Journal, “In 2004, total state funding for the arts will drop to $272 million, a 23% decrease in just the last year. And nearly two-thirds of that total decrease comes from cutbacks in just three of the hardest hit states: California, Michigan and Florida”. While the reduction of funding for the arts has been reduced nearly a quarter in different areas, educators often struggle to maintain their arts program as a vital skill to teach to students. The funds that have been reduced now disallow the arts to provide furnishings and supplies as well as instructor salaries that are essential to these programs. As a result, art courses are not regarded with the same amount of respect and students are denied a creative outlet within their education.\n\nBudget issues and the reduction of spending for the arts has caused numerous schools to attempt to find additional sources to help support their arts program. School administrators frequently look towards state funding to assist in financing the arts. Grants and other means to finance the arts are increasingly becoming more frequent, but they are temporary solutions to fund these programs. Schools often work with local and state governments to receive income; however numerous state governments are experiencing other budget deficit issues and can rarely afford to finance such a program in the amount that is needed. So to help support the arts, often there is need for assistance from private contributors. Still, as with grants, private contributors cannot donate enough funds to adequately support the arts in education and cannot contribute as consistently as the government could. Funding the arts in education still remains a large and unresolved issue for many school districts nationwide.\n\nAdvocacy for the arts raises an issue of how essential teaching the arts to students actually is. Due to statistical analysis of a perceived lapse in mathematical and reading skills of our youth, many parents feel that importance of the arts is less crucial than other fundamental areas of academic study. This is namely due, in part, by the fact that art is viewed as less needed in the workforce. However many advocates argue that students in the arts excel in interpreting and analyzing visual and spatial information. According to the National Assessment of Educational Progress, \"Educators have acknowledged that the arts are basic to the acquisition of a well-rounded education. The arts provide meaning to learning. They serve as a vehicle for acquiring the skills to which educational reformers have said students should aspire: problem-solving, higher order thinking, flexibility, persistence, and cooperation.\" These skills that are acquired by the arts are actually needed characteristics in the modern workforce. The stress of the importance for the arts then becomes one that benefits the students for their future careers. While many view the arts as inapplicable in today’s modern workforce, many would argue that the arts provide positive results for students competing in today’s competitive job market.\n\nAn issue commonly brought is that “not all teachers are artists,” meaning that there aren’t enough teachers capable of doing art to teach in every classroom. However, this is not the case, as any teacher can become an arts teacher. While art is, to its core, incredibly subjective, there is a basis for every practice. In the fine arts there are the elements and principles of design, the color wheel, etc. In music there is basic music theory. In drama, there is basic play structure, acting theory, etc. Whether or not a teacher can do these things is irrelevant; if they can be taught, that information can be passed on from the teacher to the student. The goal is not to create master artists, but rather teach basic arts skills, processes, and aesthetic quality, and encourage creative teaching techniques. This basic understanding can then be passed on to the students, who then learn by doing. These skills are simple and easy to learn and teach, and will be infinitely useful in creating lesson plans and in practice. Once an arts-integrated environment is established, techniques, examples, and information can be shared amongst colleagues. They can discuss findings and share what works and does not work within the classroom.\n\nFunding and advocacy for the arts still remains the largest issue that is currently facing teaching this important area to students. Many districts and supporters speak out for more funding to ensure advancement in the arts, however there is little money to be shared across the many programs in education. Many fear that certain arts programs may be removed from some schools due to these concerns. While art education is considered one of the core subjects in the No Child Left Behind Act, there are many who fear for its future.\n\nThe arts are often perceived as a hobby, an interest or purely as a recreational occupation. In a society where the entire educational system is based on preparing a future work force, focus is put on the STEM field (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) and the arts are neglected. In a time of economic instability resources are strictly distributed and the arts are ever so often first to get cut. Yet, research on the effects of arts education on children’s learning and development show significant positive outcomes on children exposed to arts programs with teacher supervision compared to children not exposed to arts education. Research shows that children exposed to arts do better in school, develop greater social, cognitive and emotional skills and are more likely to earn higher degrees of education later in life.\n\nParticipation in arts programs is positively correlated with increased academic achievement, including higher math and verbal SAT scores, when compared to the performance of students without arts education.\n\nResearch by the National Educational Longitudinal Survey (NELS;88), a panel study which has followed more than 25,000 students in American secondary schools for 10 years, show significant results on the positive outcomes from children exposed to high arts in school with a teacher supervising. The study examines the time from 8th grade through 10th and 12th grade and throughout high school. Furthermore, this study, conducted by James Catterall and colleagues, which started in the mid-90s followed up on the same students at age 26 in 2009.\n\nAn exploratory study published by the National Art Education Association looked at the integration of arts in classroom curriculum and concluded that this integration enhanced academic learning because of the fully immersive engagement of the arts, which allows students to understand different perspectives, safely take risks, express feelings through less restrictive modes, and draw parallels between the arts and traditional core subject areas.\n\nA significant consensus among research on arts education exists and this is that arts reach students who are not otherwise being reached and that the arts reach students in ways that they are otherwise not being reached. Students failing is commonly explained by disengaged students and finding that arts provide students a reason and a motivation for being engaged with school and thus preventing students from dropping out of school. This motivation found within can be examined through the way that engagement in arts enhances self-awareness, self-confidence, trust and empowerment. Creating art is a personal experience and involves the student’s personal resources implicating a greater involvement and investment in a work without right or wrong answers. Personal investment nourishes self-directed learning and encourages the learning experience itself rather than learning as a means of test score performance. The confidence, collaboration, and creativity that arts education fosters has a circular, positive effect on academics as well as cultural engagement.\n\nPositive outcomes by means of socio-cultural development, through exposure to minorities and different cultures, is a contribution of arts education aiming at breaking stereotypes and developing teamwork skills, tolerance and appreciation of diversity. One study, collected by the Association for the Advancement of Arts Education (AAAE), on students’ exposure to Native American music using an interdisciplinary approach incorporating the teaching of instrumental music and bringing in guest artists, showed decreased stereotypical attitudes and greater cultural awareness and sensitivity. These changes were measured by the American Indian Belief Inventory was measured on four groups exposed to Native American culture and a fifth group with no cultural exposure. All of the four groups showed improvement while the fifth control group did not.\n\nLongitudinal studies have shown that students with arts education are more civically engaged. This socio-cultural effect of arts integration is disproportionately stronger for at-risk students.\n\nResearch on the contribution of the arts to the cognitive field show a great array of cognitive developments in spatial-temporal abilities, verbal skills, memory and spatial reasoning.\nA study by Chan \"et al.\" using sixty female college students in the U.S showed a relationship of the students’ music training before age 12 and their verbal memory. The students with music training showed a significantly better recall than those without formal training. \nA meta-analysis by the American Psychological Association furthermore showed how listening to music can result in progressive relaxation and that listening to classical music one hour a day increases greater brain coherence and more time spent in the alpha state (state of aware relaxation stimulating imagination, intuition and higher awareness). Studies on premature babies have also found that while receiving special care and being exposed to classical music they physically and mentally developed significantly faster than those babies who weren’t exposed to classical music. Further studies have also indicated that incorporating Art into academic education for disabled children better supported cognitive development and improved communication skills.\n\nJessica Davis presents eight different frameworks for considering the role of the arts in education. Her categories and methods are as follows:\nIt is often difficult to fully integrate the arts with traditional classroom instruction in a way that allows for the arts-cultura model. This is largely due to the disconnect between art teachers and teachers of other subjects, who are not given the time or ability to coordinate and interweave lesson plans that apply art to core subjects and vice versa.\n\nAs technology continually advances, arts integration evolves to match. The challenge in integrating arts in today's technology-first education lies not in implementing production labs on school campuses or accessing the latest computer software, but rather in effectively managing the sheer amount of information that technology makes available. Students must learn to select relevant data, assess these data, and draw critically from them in order to make meaning, answer questions, or form new ones. Technology also presents more channels of expression, whether through digital art or artificial intelligence, which, if supported by arts-technology integration, can cultivate the experimentation and inquiry that arts education champions.\n\nThe United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), a special agency of the UN that operates from Paris, France, advocates the need for the integration of arts, culture, and creativity in all educational platforms worldwide. This agenda is in line with the structure of “Quality Education” and “Education for All” to support methodologies for promoting and protecting diversity of cultural manifestation. For example, UNESCO Bangkok took the initiative of upholding research activities related to Arts Education and swap of information along with case studies among educators, artists, and other stakeholders within Asia and the Pacific. The very first international congress on arts education was held in Seoul (Korea) in 2006 and the second in 2010.\n\nDue to current economic recession many schools across see their arts programs cut off in favor of core curriculum subject such as English, math and science. Despite the lack of apparent and secure job possibilities within the arts and a pressuring need for a strong work force within the STEM fields (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) research show that arts education is crucial in children’s learning process and development. In 2013 a congressional resolution sought to include \"A\" for Art in the STEM acronym, changing it to STEAM. Studies show that children exposed to arts education throughout childhood through primary, secondary and tertiary school show greater scores on academic achievements as well as greater social, cultural, emotional and cognitive development. Some of the measured improvement are greater self-confidence, communicative skills, cultural awareness and sensitivity alongside greater stimulated creativity and overall academic achievement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5461001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5461001", "title": "Association of Speakers Clubs", "text": "Association of Speakers Clubs\n\nThe Association of Speakers Clubs (ASC) is a British confederation of about 150 clubs around the country that promote the skill of public speaking.\n\nThe ASC was formed by de-merger from Toastmasters International (TI) in 1973. Most of the TI clubs in Scotland and northern and central England joined the ASC.\n\n"}
{"id": "11967286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11967286", "title": "Bachelor of Vocational Education", "text": "Bachelor of Vocational Education\n\nBachelor of Vocational Education (\"B.V.E.\", BVE, or BVEd) is a specialized undergraduate bachelor's degree which qualifies the graduate as a vocational teacher in public schools or trainer for private companies. Some universities offer a Bachelor of Vocational Education and Training, or a Bachelor of Career and Technical Education degree, which are basically equivalent to a BVE. Further, many universities have specific vocational education bachelor's degrees to prepare agricultural, business, computer, health occupations, marketing, and industrial arts teachers as well as degrees for Adult and Continuing Education.\n\nVocational educators have existed since the first vocations existed. One of the main systems of vocational education was through masters and apprentices. As traditional academic institutions started to recognize the need for vocational education, there became a need to accredit potential vocational teachers within the traditional academic system. This can be seen in California through their requirement that all community college tenured vocational instructors have a bachelor's degree In Australia the Bachelor of Vocational Education and Training grew out of \"an expressed need for a programme of study for training and vocational educators\"\n\nWhile each college's specific curriculum and courses may vary, nearly every college in California that offers a Bachelor of Vocational Education degree includes courses in Characteristics and Management of Education for Adult Students, Assessment and Instruction, Teaching Diverse Learners, Advanced Instructional Design, Program Evaluation and Leadership, and School Health Care as these are generally required for a Designated Subjects Vocational Education Teaching Credential.\n\nFurther, BVE students may generally complete a SWAN Portfolio that allows them to get college credit for experience they have had from their specific vocations.\n\nA study done by the Department of Education of Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada found that 94% of BVE graduates were working in a field related to their degree compared with 80% for all graduates with an undergraduate degree. Further, BVE graduates earned on average $18.01-$20.00 per hour compared to $14.01-$16.00 for the general graduating population.\n"}
{"id": "685106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=685106", "title": "Betty Dodson", "text": "Betty Dodson\n\nBetty Dodson (born August 24, 1929) is an American sex educator. An artist by training, she exhibited erotic art in New York, before pioneering the pro-sex feminist movement, separate from mainstream feminism, which she sees as needlessly political and hostile towards males. Dodson’s workshops and manuals encourage women to masturbate, often in groups. Although bisexual herself, she repudiates the labels that define sexuality.\n\nOriginally from Kansas, Dodson went to New York City to train as an artist in 1950, and has lived on Manhattan's Madison Avenue since 1962. In 1959, Dodson married Frederick Stern, an advertising director, with the marriage ending in divorce in 1965. Dodson's quest for \"sexual self-discovery\" began after her divorce. Dodson held the first one-woman show of erotic art at the Wickersham Gallery in New York City in 1968. She left the art world to teach sex to women. She is widely known as a pioneer in women's liberation, and to a somewhat lesser extent in men's sexual liberation, having sold more than one million copies of her first book, \"Sex for One\". Much of her fame has come from her work not only advocating masturbation, but conducting workshops for more than 30 years in which groups of about 10 or more women (and at least once a group of men) would talk, explore their own bodies, and masturbate together. Her website, \"Betty Dodson's Genital Gallery,\" showed many films of masturbation and intercourse, with close-up views of genitals.\n\nShe left behind the traditional feminist movement, because she considered it banal, antisexual and over-politicized. Dodson considers too much is made of sexual labels and embraces them all by calling herself a heterosexual, bisexual lesbian. She looks forward to the day we can all be just \"sexual.\" In recent years she has criticized Eve Ensler's \"The Vagina Monologues\", which she believes has a negative and restrictive view of sexuality and an anti-male bias.\n\nDodson earned a degree from the Institute for the Advanced Study of Human Sexuality for her research work on sexuality.\n\nDodson became active in the sex-positive movement in the late 1960s. Dodson used the Hitachi Magic Wand, a powerful main-powered vibrator, in demonstrations and instructional classes to instruct women regarding self-pleasure techniques.\nShe recommended women put a small towel over their sex organs in order to dull the sensation of the vibrator and prolong the pleasurable experience. Her technique became known as the Betty Dodson Method. Her sessions were known as Bodysex workshops and featured 15 naked women in supine position, each using a Magic Wand simultaneously to aid in masturbation. She provided a Magic Wand to each woman for these two-hour masturbation sessions. Dodson taught thousands of women to achieve orgasm using this technique.\n\nDodson published a memoir, \"Sex by Design\", in 2010.\n\nIn 2014, she expressed that she considers herself a fourth-wave feminist, stating that the previous waves of feminist were banal and anti-sexual, which is why she has chosen to look at a new stance of feminism, fourth wave feminism. In 2014, Dodson worked with women to discover their sexual desires through masturbation. Dodson says her work has gained a fresh lease of life with a new audience of young, successful women who have never had an orgasm. This includes fourth-wave feminists – those rejecting the anti-pleasure stance they believe third-wave feminists stand for.\n\nDodson maintains a private practice in New York City and has an active website. In an article on her website about hands-on sex therapy, she explains her choice against pursuing a degree in psychology and licensing as a therapist since it would have prevented her from continuing with the types of sex workshops and counseling for women that she had been doing for decades. She is available for group and solo Bodysex workshops and private individual and couples coaching.\n\nDodson's books include \"Liberating Masturbation\", \"Sex for One: The Joy of Self-Loving\" and \"Orgasms for Two: the Joy of Partnersex\". She also produced four videos: \"Selfloving: Portrait of a Sexual Seminar\", \"Celebrating Orgasm: Women's Private Selfloving Sessions\", \"Viva la Vulva: Women's Sex Organs Revealed\" and \"The Orgasm Doctor: Two Private Hands-on Sex Coaching Sessions\".\n\nIn 2006, , a former corporate lawyer, met Betty Dodson for an interview and became her business partner. They created an online sexuality portal for women under the brand Dodson and Ross. Together, they launched an online video series \"\".\n\nDodson appeared in a Season 4 episode of Penn & Teller's \"\" that dealt with abstinence. She was also on \"The View\", and has appeared in numerous sex documentaries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37139331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37139331", "title": "Catholic Church sexual abuse cases in New Zealand", "text": "Catholic Church sexual abuse cases in New Zealand\n\nThere have been a number of Catholic sex abuse cases in New Zealand, linked to Catholic schools.\nThe first recorded case was in 1900. Allegations of cruelty toward children residing at the Stoke Industrial School (also known as St Mary's Orphanage) instigated a Royal Commission and the eventual prosecution of two Marist Brothers. Edouard Forrier (Brother Wybertus) was charged with five counts of common assault. They were also charged with five counts of indecent assault of which they were acquitted. The alleged incidents occurred between September 5, 1893 and June 1, 1897.\n\nMarist Father Alan Woodcock abused children at St John's College in Hastings, St Patrick's College in Upper Hutt, Highden in the Manawatu and Futuna in Wellington. After he left the Marist Priesthood and left New Zealand to live in England, he was extradited back to New Zealand and convicted of 21 sex offences committed between 1978 and 1987. The abuse continued despite the knowledge of Father Michael Curtain and Father Fred Bliss. Tracking him down abroad was done with the assistance of the Sisters of St Joseph of Nazareth.\n\nJohn Louis Stevenson (known as Brother Bernard) and Brother Andrew Cody of the Hato Paora Māori Boys school in Feilding were convicted of sexual offenses and jailed.\n\nIn 2011 a staff member of St Bede's College, Christchurch admitted to being a sex offender before he was employed at that college, but was allowed to remain as a teacher. In 2018, abuse victim advocates called for the resignation of the school's rector for continuing the staff member's employment.\n\nIn 2017 and 2018, the issue was raised of Magnus Murray, a Catholic priest, who taught at St Paul's College, Dunedin, until 1972 and was later convicted of child sexual abuse. Allegations were also made against former Christian Brothers Junior School principal, Desmond Fay. Michael Dooley, Bishop of Dunedin, acknowledged the offences of Murray and Fay and apologised for the \"suffering endured by victims and their families\".\n\nMarylands School, which was operated by the Brothers Hospitallers of St. John of God, a Catholic religious order in Christchurch, was the centre of a number of sex abuse cases. By 2006, the Australasian branch of the St John of God order had paid out $5.1 million to survivors who had been sexually abused at the school. A nonprofit trust, the Survivors of Sex Abuse Trust, worked with many of the victims. Over 120 complaints were made in regard to sexual and physical abuse alleged to have occurred at the school. Many of the offences were committed in the 1970s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14285191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14285191", "title": "Certified Wireless Network Administrator", "text": "Certified Wireless Network Administrator\n\nThe Certified Wireless Network Administrator (CWNA) is a foundation level certification from the CWNP that measures the ability to administer any wireless LAN. A wide range of topics focusing on the 802.11 wireless LAN technology are covered in the coursework and exam, which is vendor neutral.\n\nThe Certified Wireless Network Administrator (CWNA) is a foundation level wireless certification for the Certified Wireless Network Professional (CWNP) program. The CWNP next offers three professional level certifications: Certified Wireless Security Professional (CWSP), Certified Wireless Analysis Professional (CWAP) and Certified Wireless Design Professional (CWDP). A candidate can only achieve the expert level CWNE certification after earning the CWNA, CWSP, CWAP and CWDP certifications. A candidate no longer has to pass an exam for the expert level Certified Wireless Network Expert (CWNE) certification. In addition to passing the CWNA, CWSP, CWAP and CWDP a candidate must also provide: 3 professional endorsements, 3 years of documented enterprise Wi-Fi experience, 2 other current valid networking certifications and documentation of 3 enterprise Wi-Fi projects the candidate has participated in or led.\n\nThe main subject areas covered by the CWNA are as follows:\n\nThese subjects are covered at an introductory level in the CWNA coursework and examination. The other certifications specialize in one or more of these subjects.\n\nThe CWNA certification is valid for three years. The certification may be renewed by retaking the CWNA exam or by passing one of the 3 professional level certification exams (CWSP, CWAP or CWDP).\n\n\nSybex Publishing Study Guide: https://www.wiley.com/go/cwnasg\n"}
{"id": "31895345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31895345", "title": "Charles A. Lindbergh Chair in Aerospace History", "text": "Charles A. Lindbergh Chair in Aerospace History\n\nThe Charles A. Lindbergh Chair in Aerospace History, also known as the Lindbergh Chair, is a one-year senior fellowship hosted by the U.S. National Air and Space Museum (NASM), to assist a scholar in the research and composition of a book about aerospace history. Named for the famous aviator Charles Lindbergh, the position is competitive: one experienced scholar is selected each year from multiple applicants worldwide. Up to $100,000 is granted to the winner.\n\nThe Lindbergh Chair is one of four research fellowships administered by NASM within the Smithsonian Institution: the others are the Daniel and Florence Guggenheim Fellowship, the A. Verville Fellowship, and the Postdoctoral Earth and Planetary Sciences Fellowship. Announced in 1977 at the 50th anniversary of Lindbergh's famous solo flight, 1978 was the first year that the Lindbergh Chair was occupied—British aviation historian Charles Harvard Gibbs-Smith was selected as the first recipient.\n\nEach Lindbergh Chair application is judged relative to the suitability of its proposal, the scholarly record of the applicant, the availability of relevant museum staff advisors knowledgeable on the proposed topic, whether the NASM can provide the specific resources, and the applicability of the proposal to NASM's work-in-progress series. The winner is expected to reside in the Washington, DC, area for nine months to a year, the academic year generally starting in September and ending by the following August. He or she is also expected to take part in discussions with museum staff and to attend professional seminars and colloquia. Along with access to primary research materials, the winner is given the use of an office, a phone and a computer.\n"}
{"id": "20574280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20574280", "title": "David A. Freedman", "text": "David A. Freedman\n\nDavid Amiel Freedman (5 March 1938 – 17 October 2008) was Professor of Statistics at the University of California, Berkeley. He was a distinguished mathematical statistician whose wide-ranging research included the analysis of martingale inequalities, Markov processes, de Finetti's theorem, consistency of Bayes estimators, sampling, the bootstrap, and procedures for testing and evaluating models. He published extensively on methods for causal inference and the behavior of standard statistical models under non-standard conditions – for example, how regression models behave when fitted to data from randomized experiments. Freedman also wrote widely on the application—and misapplication—of statistics in the social sciences, including epidemiology, public policy, and law.\n\nFreedman was a fellow of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics and the American Statistical Association and an elected fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He won the 2003 John J. Carty Award for the Advancement of Science from the National Academy of Sciences \"for his profound contributions to the theory and practice of statistics, including rigorous foundations for Bayesian inference and trenchant analysis of census adjustment.\" He was a Fellow at the Miller Institute for Basic Research in Science in 1990, an Alfred P. Sloan Foundation Fellow in 1964–66, and a Canada Council Fellow at Imperial College London in 1960–61.\n\nFreedman was born in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, on 5 March 1938. He received a B.Sc. from McGill University in 1958 and a M.A. and a Ph.D. from Princeton University in 1959 and 1960, respectively. He joined the University of California, Berkeley Department of Statistics in 1961 as a lecturer and was appointed to the research faculty in 1962. He remained at Berkeley his entire career. He started his professional life as a probabilist and mathematical statistician with Bayesian leanings but became one of the world's leading applied statisticians and a circumspect frequentist.\n\nFreedman was a consulting or testifying expert on statistics in disputes involving employment discrimination, fair loan practices, voting rights, duplicate signatures on petitions, railroad taxation, ecological inference, flight patterns of golf balls, price scanner errors, Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (Mad Cow disease), and sampling. He consulted for the Bank of Canada, the Carnegie Commission, the City of San Francisco, the County of Los Angeles, and the Federal Reserve, as well as the U.S. departments of energy, treasury, justice, and commerce. Freedman and his colleague Kenneth Wachter testified to the United States Congress and the courts against adjusting the 1980 and 1990 censuses using estimates of differential undercounts. A 1990 lawsuit that sought to compel the United States Department of Commerce to adjust the census was heard on appeal by the U.S. Supreme Court, which ruled unanimously in favor of the Commerce Department and Freedman and Wachter's analysis. With David Kaye, Freedman wrote a widely used primer on statistics for lawyers and judges published by the Federal Judicial Center, the education and research agency for the United States federal courts.\n\nIn addition to his work in forensic statistics, Freedman had a broad impact on the application of statistics to important medical, social, and public policy issues, such as clinical trials, epidemiology, economic models, and the interpretation of scientific experiments and observational studies. In his applied work, Freedman emphasized exposing and checking the assumptions that underlie standard methods, as well as understanding how those methods behave when the assumptions are false. He characterized circumstances in which the methods continue to perform well, and those where they break down—regardless of the quality of the data. Two of his earlier results (1963 and 1965) investigate whether or not and under what circumstances a Bayesian learning approach is consistent, i.e. when does the prior converge to the true probability distribution given sufficiently many observed data. In particular the 1965 paper with the innocent title \"On the asymptotic behaviour of Bayes estimates in the discrete case II\" finds the rather disappointing answer that when sampling from a countably infinite population the Bayesian procedure fails almost everywhere, i.e. one does not obtain the true distribution asymptotically. This situation is quite different from the finite case when the (discrete) random variable takes only finite many values and the Bayesian method is consistent in agreement with earlier findings of Doob (1948).\n\nFreedman was the author or co-author of 200 articles, 20 technical reports and six books, including a highly innovative and influential introductory statistics textbook, \"Statistics\" (2007), with Robert Pisani and Roger Purves, which has gone through four editions. The late Amos Tversky of Stanford University observed that \"This is a great book. It is the best introduction to how to think about statistical issues...\" It has a \"wealth of real-world examples that illuminate principles and applications...a classic.\" Freedman's \"Statistical Models: Theory and Practice\" (2005) is an advanced text on statistical modeling that likewise achieves a remarkable integration between extensive examples and statistical theory.\n\nLandmark articles by Freedman include \"Statistical Models and Shoe Leather\" (1991), \"What is the Chance of an Earthquake?\" (2003), \"Methods for Census 2000 and Statistical Adjustments\" (2007), and \"On Types of Scientific Enquiry: The Role of Qualitative Reasoning\" (2008).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59184601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59184601", "title": "DevCodeCamp", "text": "DevCodeCamp\n\nDevCodeCamp is a coding bootcamp based in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, with an additional campus location in Madison. DevCodeCamp offers 12-week immersive and 20-week part time bootcamps for software development. \n\nDevCodeCamp was founded in 2015 and was the first coding bootcamp in Wisconsin. \nThe school's headquarters is based in the Ward4 building in Milwaukee. Classes can also be taken in Madison. The full time bootcamp is completed within 12 weeks and the part time bootcamp within 20 weeks. Once students complete the bootcamp they receive interview and resume training. Furthermore, DevCodeCamp offers free housing in apartments right above the school.\nSince fall 2017, benefits provided by the Forever GI Bill for veterans also cover tuition for DevCodeCamp.\nBy March 2017, more than 100 students had graduated from DevCodeCamp. Their average starting salary has been $50,000 per year.\nGraduates have been hired by Rockwell Automation, Land's End, Milwaukee Brewers, U.S. Bank, Zywave, and Northwestern Mutual. \n\n"}
{"id": "3824279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3824279", "title": "Education in Eritrea", "text": "Education in Eritrea\n\nEducation in Eritrea is officially compulsory between 7 and 16 years of age. Important goals of Eritrea's educational policy are to provide basic education in each of Eritrea's mother tongues as well as to produce a society that is equipped with the necessary skills to function with a culture of self-reliance in the modern economy. The education infrastructure is currently inadequate to meet these needs.\n\nInitially there were only a few religious schools in Eritrea, but with the Italian governments were started the first school systems in Eritrea mainly during the late 1930s (when was established the Eritrea Governorate). In 1940 Dr. Vincenzo Di Meglio promoted the creation of the \"School of Medicine\" in Asmara (the first university institution in Eritrea, located initially in the Liceo Martini), under the direction of Prof. Ferro Luzzi.\n\nAfter WW2 was created the first university in Asmara. This university was founded in 1958, albeit by a different name as the \"Collegio Cattolico della Santa Famiglia\" while ruled by the Italian religious organization called 'Piae Madres Nigritiae' (\"Comboni Sisters\"): successively, in 1964 the university had been renamed as \"University of Asmara\".\n\nIn the 1990s the independent Eritrea started a program to bring literacy to all children in Eritrea. Since then the school system has reached nearly 90% of young Eritreans.\n\nThere are five levels of education in Eritrea, pre-primary, primary, middle, secondary and tertiary. There are nearly 238,000 students in the primary, middle, and secondary levels of education. There are approximately 824 schools in Eritrea and two universities, University of Asmara (UoA) and the Eritrea Institute of Technology (EIST), as well as several smaller colleges and technical schools.\n\nCurrent centers of tertiary education in Eritrea include, the College of Marine Biology, the College of Agriculture, the College of Arts and Social Sciences, the College of Business and Economics, the College of Nursing and Health Technology, as well as EIST and the UoA.There are some big primary and middle schools like Mai-Tesfa, Awet and Model\n\nThe education system in Eritrea is also designed to promote private sector schooling, equal access for all groups (i.e. prevent gender discrimination, prevent ethnic discrimination, prevent class discrimination, etc.) and promote continuing education through formal and informal systems.\n\nBarriers to education in Eritrea include traditional taboos, school fees (for registration and materials), and the cost barriers of low-income households.\n\nStatistics suggest that between 39 and 57 percent of school-aged children attend primary school and 21 percent attend secondary school. Student-teacher ratios are high: 45 to 1 at the elementary level and 54 to 1 at the secondary level. There are an average 63 students per classroom at the elementary level and 97 per classroom at the secondary level. Learning hours at school are often less than four hours per day. Skill shortages are present at all levels of the education system, and funding for and access to education vary significantly by gender (with dropout rates much higher for girls) and location. \n\nThe overall literacy rate in Eritrea is estimated to be about 67.8 percent, with young adults aged 15–24, 89 percent literate. \"The Ministry [of Education] plans to establish a university in every region in the future.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "36583162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36583162", "title": "European Girls' Mathematical Olympiad", "text": "European Girls' Mathematical Olympiad\n\nThe European Girls' Mathematical Olympiad is a mathematical olympiad for girls which started in 2012. It is similar to, and was inspired by, the China Girls Mathematical Olympiad. \n\nThe first EGMO took place in April 2012 at Murray Edwards College, Cambridge and was run by the United Kingdom Mathematical Trust. Nineteen countries took part: Belgium, Bulgaria, Finland, Hungary, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Latvia, the Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom and the United States of America.\n\nThere were two four-and-a-half hour examinations, which were held at the Centre for Mathematical Sciences.\n\nThe second EGMO took place in April 2013 in Luxembourg and was run by the Association des Mathématiciens du Luxembourg in cooperation with the Lycée Aline Mayrisch. 22 countries took part.\n\nThe third EGMO was held in April 2014 in Antalya, organized by TÜBİTAK. 29 countries took part.\n\nThe fourth EGMO was held in April 2015 in Minsk. 30 teams took part.\n\nThe fifth EGMO was held in April 2016 in Bușteni. 39 teams took part.\n\nThe sixth EGMO was held in April 2017 in Zürich. 44 teams took part.\n\nThe seventh EGMO was held in April 2018 in Florence. 52 teams took part.\n\nThe eighth EGMO will be held in 2019 in Kiev.\n\nThe ninth EGMO will be held in 2020 in the Netherlands.\n\n"}
{"id": "8909090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8909090", "title": "Georg Friedrich Parrot", "text": "Georg Friedrich Parrot\n\nGeorg Friedrich Parrot (15 July 1767 – 8 July 1852) was a German scientist, the first rector of the Imperial University of Dorpat (today Tartu, Estonia) in what was then the Governorate of Livonia of the Russian Empire.\n\nGeorges-Frédéric Parrot was born in Mömpelgard (now Montbéliard) (then part of the Duchy of Württemberg, from 1806 in France). His father, a surgeon by profession and the local duke’s physician in ordinary, had a respectable position in the society becoming the mayor of his hometown. As the family was Protestants, they sent Georg Friedrich to study physics and mathematics at the University of Stuttgart in Stuttgart, the capital of the Duchy (1782–1786).\n\nFor several years after graduation, Parrot took positions as a private tutor in France and Germany, and in 1795 in Livonia, one of the Baltic provinces of the Russian Empire. His reasons for leaving Germany were mainly economic: as he was recently married, he needed a more regular income than he could gain from giving occasional private classes in mathematics and attending to various contests of inventions. His talent was noticed and he was appointed to be the first secretary of the Livonian Charitable and Economic Society (\"Livländische gemeinnützige und ökonomische Sozietät\") founded in 1796 in Riga, the capital of Livonia, for the promotion of science and new ideas of management. At that time, there was no longer a university in the region. Although King Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden had founded the Academia Gustaviana in 1632, it had ceased to exist in 1710 when Peter the Great had conquered the Baltic Sea provinces. Only in 1802 was the university re-founded by the order of the Tsar Alexander I as the only German-language and Lutheran university in the Russian Empire. Parrot was initially appointed to the Chair of Pure and Applied Mathematics but after defending his doctoral dissertation “On the influence of Physics and Chemistry on Pharmacy” (\"Über den Einfluss den Physic und Chemie auf die Arzneikunde\") in 1802, he was appointed to the Chair of Physics.\n\nDue to his extraordinary energy, he became the first rector of the Imperial University of Dorpat (University of Tartu), being elected by the University Council consisting of all chaired professors. In this capacity, Parrot skillfully fought for the academic freedom and the self-government of the university, protecting her from the political pressure of Baltic German barons who had been given the right to autonomously govern in the Baltic provinces. The university was re-opened on the initiative of the local aristocratic establishment but they disliked Parrot for his unconcealed sympathy to the ideals of the Enlightenment. Parrot openly talked about equality of people, irrespective of their social status and heritage. In his inaugural speech at the opening ceremony of the University he said, addressing the students:\n\nAccording to the memoirs of Parrot’s contemporaries, these words made an inextinguishable impression. However, Parrot’s hour of triumph arrived on May 22, 1802. Tsar Alexander I stopped in Dorpat on his way to Memel (Klaipėda) for the meeting with the King Frederick William III of Prussia. Parrot was nominated to give a speech in his honour with which he immediately won the sympathy of the young ambitious Tsar. Appealing to the ideal of enlightened monarchy, Parrot expressed his gratitude to the Tsar who had ordered the reopening of the university, and repeated the promise to honestly serve science and the whole humanity. Alexander was so delighted with Parrot’s eloquence that he asked him to prepare a written copy of his speech. This episode laid the foundations of a friendly relationship between the Tsar and Parrot, which lasted for ten years and proved to be extremely beneficial for the University, to say nothing about Parrot himself.\n\nIn 1811, Parrot was elected to be a corresponding member of the Imperial Academy of Sciences, becoming a full member in 1826. In the same year, he retired from the University of Dorpat and continued his work as a head of the physics laboratory of the Academy of Sciences in Saint Petersburg. He died on a trip to Helsingfors (Helsinki), in 1852.\n\nThe Parrot dynasty left an indelible mark on the history of science in Russia and Estonia. His son, Friedrich Parrot (1791-1841), followed in his father's footsteps, making a career as a naturalist and later assuming the rectorship at the University of Dorpat in 1830. A pioneer of Russian and Estonian scientific mountaineering, he is best known for leading the first expedition to the summit of Mount Ararat in recorded history.\n\nOn the occasion of Parrot's upcoming 250th anniversary, University of Tartu purchased Parrot's original rector portrait, thought to have been lost, at an auction. The portrait was revealed at the Old Anatomical Theatre in Tartu in the summer of 2017. The Vanemuine theatre staged the play \"Anima In Machina. G. F. Parrot\" in his honour in 2017. Estonian Association of the History and Philosophy of Science along with the University of Tartu Museum hosted an international three day conference \"On the Border of the Russian Empire: German University of Tartu and its first Rector Georg Friedrich Parrot\" in his honour.\n"}
{"id": "40306780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40306780", "title": "Gustav Langenscheidt", "text": "Gustav Langenscheidt\n\nGustav Langenscheidt (October 21, 1832 – November 11, 1895) was a German language teacher, book publisher, and the founder of Langenscheidt Publishing Group.\n\nGustav Langenscheidt was the son of Johann Ludwig Langenscheidt, a decorator, and his wife Sophie Caroline Schwartze. After graduating from high school in 1850 Langenscheidt started a commercial apprenticeship, which he completed in two years.\n\nBetween 1851 and the spring of 1853 Langenscheidt traveled to almost all the neighboring countries of Germany and covered around 7000 kilometers on foot and by stagecoach. After returning to Germany he joined the army in summer of 1853. During his time in the military Langenscheidt extensively studied the different ways of learning the French language.\n\nIn 1857, he married Pauline Hartmann (1832 – 1903) in Berlin and had two daughters and four sons, including the writer and publisher Paul Langenscheidt and Carl Langenscheidt, who later became his successor.\n\nGustav Langenscheidt died on November 11, 1895, at the age of nearly 63 years. He was first buried in the old St. Matthew's Cemetery in Schöneberg, and then in his final resting place in the family grave in West Stahnsdorf in 1935. The family's mausoleum is in Department D of the cemetery.\n\nTogether with Charles Toussaint Langenscheidt developed a self-learning method, which he published in 1856 under the title \"Unterrichtsbriefe zur Erlernung der französischen Sprache\" (\"Teaching letters for learning the French language\"). Langenscheidt had copied the idea of such a teaching method and especially the sales strategy of William Cobbett. Since no publisher was interested in this teaching work, Langenscheidt himself established a publishing house on October 1, 1856. These correspondence lessons became very popular and were widely read, so today Langenscheidt can be considered the \"Father of distance education.\"\n\nIn 1857 Langenscheidt was appointed chief writer of the 11th Infantry Brigade in Berlin. In 1861, together with Carl Dalen and Henry Lloyd, Langenscheidt published \"English lessons letters\" (similar in structure to the French). From 1867 Langenscheidt Publishing Group had its own printing press.\n\nFrom 1869 Langenscheidt worked with Karl Sachs and Césaire Villatte on the \"Encyklopädisches französisch-deutsches und deutsch-französisches Wörterbuch\" (\"Encyclopedic French-German and German-French dictionary\") and was finally able to publish it in 1880. In 1874, Langenscheidt was awarded the title of professor.\n\nIn 1891, in close collaboration with Eduard Muret and Daniel Sanders, he started working on the English equivalent, the \"Encyklopädisches englisch-deutsches und deutsch-englisches Wörterbuch\" (\"Encyclopedic English-German and German-English dictionary\"). Langenscheidt did not live to see its publication; his son Carl, his successor, published it in 1901.\n\nThe Toussaint-Langenscheidt method is based on the language teaching methodology of James Hamilton and Jean Joseph Jacotot. The revolutionary aspect of this method was that the focus was no longer on grammar, but on reading and communication. Langenscheidt and Toussaint created a new phonetic alphabet for the representation of pronunciation in order to facilitate learning. This was used until the Second World War, after which it was replaced by the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5542744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5542744", "title": "HighWire Press", "text": "HighWire Press\n\nHighWire Press is a US company that provides digital content development and hosting services to ~140 influential societies, university presses and independent publishers that produce journals, books, and other scholarly publications. It was founded by Stanford University Libraries in 1995.\n\nHighWire also offers Bench>Press, a customizable peer-review manuscript submission and tracking system, used by ~65 publishers.\n\nIn 2014, majority ownership of HighWire Press was purchased by the private equity firm Accel-KKR.\n\nIn 2017, it was announced that the entirety of the journals published by HighWire Press would be indexed in Meta.\n\nHighWire-hosted publishers collectively make over 2 million articles available (out of 7.5 million articles) freely accessible.\n\nIn 1995, the \"Journal of Biological Chemistry\" (JBC) (1905) published by the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, was the first to launch online on the HighWire platform. Since then, a number of other journals use the technology service to develop and host their online content. Titles include, among many others:\nThe organization has grown significantly since its inception in 1995. In addition to journals, HighWire produces and hosts ebooks, conference proceedings, databases, and more. They use open source technologies, such as Drupal, as part of the front end of the newest version of the websites.\n\nWhile HighWire is primarily a hosting facility, a 2007 study showed that its search engine outperformed PubMed in the identification of desired articles, and yielded a higher number of search results than when the same search was performed on PubMed. PubMed, however, was faster.\n\nHighWire was the recipient of the 2003 Association for Learned and Professional Society Publishers (ALPSP) Award for \"Service to Not-for-Profit Publishing\", and was named one of the \"Ten to Watch\" organizations in the Scientific, Technical & Medical information space in 2014 by Outsell. Founding Director John Sack was awarded the Council of Science Editors (CSE) 2011 Award for Meritorious Achievement.\n\n"}
{"id": "27985013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27985013", "title": "Institute of Continuing Education", "text": "Institute of Continuing Education\n\nThe Institute of Continuing Education (ICE) is a constituent part of the University of Cambridge. The institute encourages people in all walks of life to take advantage of continuing education.\n\nICE offers residential, online, weekend, summer, and part-time courses, as well as public lectures. The Institute also provides free public concerts performed by Cambridge musicians, featuring new student work alongside more traditional repertoire.\n\nThe Institute has an enrollment of over 6,000 students and has an academic staff of 13. A summer program brings in another 1,000 students from over 60 countries. The academic staff are called \"lecturers\", and the Institute's teaching is also accomplished by a group of about 300 \"tutors\" located in the Cambridge area and elsewhere.\n\nICE offers course credits via the United Kingdom's Credit Accumulation and Transfer Scheme, and those credits may be transferable to other Cambridge degree programs, and to other U.K. and U.S. universities. The duration of study varies, from one and two-day courses, through two-year part-time master's degrees, and courses are often taken for personal interest or for professional development.\n\nThe Institute's headquarters is in the village of Madingley, Cambridgeshire. It is housed in Madingley Hall, about four miles west of the Cambridge city limits. Madingley Hall was built in the 1540s and was later rented by Queen Victoria for the young Prince of Wales (later Edward VII) while he was a student at Cambridge. \n\nICE moved to Madingley Hall in 1975, but has been educating part-time and adult students since the 1860s. It is the oldest continuing education department in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe founder of ICE was University of Cambridge scientist James Stuart. In 1867, Stuart gave a course of lectures in various cities, which marked the beginning of the university extension movement. The University of Cambridge sanctioned the movement a few years later, in 1873, with the first course offered in Derby that year.\n\nIn 2008, when Cambridge University indirectly offered its stamp of approval for certificates in things like \"garden history\" and \"creative writing\", the university faced accusations of dumbing down. According to \"The Daily Telegraph\", the university decided to, \"take over the awarding of certificates currently offered by bodies such as the Cambridge Institute of Continuing Education….”\n\nToday, the work of ICE is controlled by the General Board of the University, through a management committee. The institute's lecturers are all appointed by the University.\n\n"}
{"id": "9847769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9847769", "title": "John D. Wiley", "text": "John D. Wiley\n\nJohn Duncan Wiley (born March 23, 1942 in Evansville, Indiana) is a faculty member and former chancellor of the University of Wisconsin–Madison. Wiley was named the 28th Chancellor of the University on November 10, 2000, and assumed office on January 1, 2001. He stepped down as chancellor and returned to the faculty on September 1, 2008. From November 1, 2008, through November 2011, he served as interim director of the Wisconsin Institute for Discovery.\n\nWiley has had a long career with UW–Madison, with nearly 40 years of involvement as either a student, faculty member, or administrator. From 1994 to 2000, he served as Wisconsin's Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs. Prior to that, he was the University's Vice Chancellor for Research and Dean of the Graduate School and the Associate Dean for Research in the College of Engineering.\n\nA research physicist by training, Wiley's academic work has focused on research in semiconductors and solid state physics. He received his bachelor's degree in physics from Indiana University in 1964, and master’s and doctoral degrees in physics in 1965 and 1968 from UW–Madison on a National Science Foundation Fellowship. He returned to UW–Madison as a faculty member in the College of Engineering in 1975, after having worked with Bell Telephone Laboratories and at the Max Planck Institute in Stuttgart, Germany as an awardee of the Alexander von Humboldt Senior U.S. Service Award for Research and Training.\n\nHis tenure as Chancellor was distinguished by record-breaking fund-raising efforts and a strong emphasis on strategic planning. Wiley attracted alumni and institutional investment to several projects on campus, most notably the Wisconsin Institutes of Discovery. A number of new construction projects were begun during his tenure, including two new dormitories, a new Microbial Sciences Building, and major expansions to the Business and Medical Schools. He also commissioned an expansive Campus Master Plan that would guide physical development of the campus for the next decade. Central to this plan is the creation of an East Campus Arts Corridor, which required the renovation or demolition of several existing campus buildings. Wiley, throughout his tenure, also sponsored and funding a number of different performing and visual arts activities both on and off campus, including a series of performances by artists across campus called \"The Chancellor Presents . . . \" Wiley additionally devoted considerable attention early in his chancellorship to curbing binge drinking on campus through a grant from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "3454799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3454799", "title": "Karen Hardy", "text": "Karen Hardy\n\nKaren Hardy is a British professional ballroom dancer, coach, teacher and adjudicator. In 1998 she won the professional International Latin American Dance Championship with Bryan Watson. She also won the United Kingdom Open, British National, European and World Masters championships. She now runs a dance studio at Imperial Wharf, London.\n\nShe is best known for being a professional dancer Strictly Come Dancing from 2005 to 2009 and as a regular contributor to she has filled in for some of the judges on The Strictly Live Tour.\n\nShe started dancing aged five in her home town of Bournemouth, and competed in the United States for two years from the age of 18 winning both East and West Coast amateur championship titles. She returned to the UK in 1990 after two years in America where she teamed up with new partner Mark Lunn. It only took 6 months before they broke into the finals worldwide, representing England.\n\nHardy turned professional in August 1994, after being asked to partner South African dancer Bryan Watson. They were highly successful from 1995–1999. In January 1995 they entered the Professional Final of the Pioneer United Kingdom Open Championship finishing fourth. Their progress to the top continued over the coming year going from fourth to first. The couple won the Carl Alan award for services to the dance world, and were named the most outstanding Latin American couple in 1995 by the Ballroom Dancers' Federation. During their 5-year partnership they were World Masters, Osaka World Trophy, United Kingdom Open, International Open, British National, Italian Open, London Open, Yankee Classic Professional Latin American Champions.\n\nDiscussing her success, she writes:\n\nTo create a step and then see it copied around the world is an indescribable reward. They don't come any more dedicated and focused than Bryan, and that's why we were able to break what had been set in stone for so long.\nHardy retired from competitive dancing in 1999 and moved into coaching. She was named Teacher of the Year in 2002 and 2003 at the Crystal Palace Dance Championships. She is also an adjudicator and now judges all of the Grand Slam events worldwide which she had previously competed in and more. She is a Senior Commentator for EuroSport DanceSport Series. Hardy also co-hosts as the Master of Ceremonies in the International Open to the World Championships held annually at the Royal Albert Hall, London.\n\nHardy participated in the television series Faking It (Series 4) for Channel 4. Along with Paul Harris they mentored a young female kick boxer to become a Latin American Dancer.\n\nAfter seven years retirement from competitions, Hardy appeared in the third series of the BBC's television series \"Strictly Come Dancing\". She appeared with journalist and presenter Bill Turnbull, in the 2005 Christmas show with former World Heavyweight Champion Evander Holyfield, and won the 2006 series with cricketer Mark Ramprakash. She danced in the 2007 series with actor Brian Capron. They were eliminated in the first round.\n\nIn June/July 2007 Hardy completed filming the DVD \"Strictly Come Dancersize\" with Erin Boag. The DVD went on general release on 4 December 2007.\n\nIn the 2008 series of Strictly Come Dancing, Hardy partnered Gary Rhodes. They were knocked out in week 3. The Daily Mail newspaper reported that she had been \"axed\" from \"Strictly Come Dancing\" on 4 August 2009, although many ballroom fans suspected that she had retired from the show voluntarily to concentrate on her new dance school. She has since said that she left as due to Gary Rhodes work commitments he was unable to train much and so each week they would be struggling to do the routines. This caused arguments due to frustration on both sides which she didn't like causing her to \"fall out of Love\" with it. She does however continue to make regular appearances on sister-show \"\" giving her professional opinion on the couple's training and performances.\n\nIn 2011 she appeared on the BBC red button service, giving live commentary on the dancing, a role she continued in 2012. \nFrom 2011 until 2017 Hardy had been a regular presenter on the sister show \"It Takes Two\". Her Tuesday night slot \"Choreography Corner\" which has essentially become a review of the previous Saturday night show. Initially the focus was on specific pieces of interesting choreography.\n\nAt the age of eight Hardy was diagnosed with a rare and acute form of ear cancer. Despite successive operations, the cancer returned three times. As a consequence of this, Hardy was advised to take up the art of ballroom dancing to compensate for the loss in her balance. A last-ditch operation when she was 21 cleared the cancer permanently. As a result of the cancer, Hardy lost 70% of the hearing in her left ear and in August 2012 was fitted with a hearing device.\n\n"}
{"id": "7143603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7143603", "title": "Kay Ryan", "text": "Kay Ryan\n\nKay Ryan (born September 21, 1945) is an American poet and educator. She has published seven volumes of poetry and an anthology of selected and new poems. From 2008 to 2010 she was the sixteenth United States Poet Laureate. In 2011 she was named a MacArthur Fellow and she won the Pulitzer Prize.\n\nRyan was born in San Jose, California, and was raised in several areas of the San Joaquin Valley and the Mojave Desert. After attending Antelope Valley College, she received bachelor's and master's degrees in English from University of California, Los Angeles. Since 1971, she has lived in Marin County, California, and has taught English part-time at the College of Marin in Kentfield. Carol Adair, who was also an instructor at the College of Marin, was Ryan's partner from 1978 until Adair's death in 2009.\n\nHer first collection, \"Dragon Acts to Dragon Ends\", was privately published in 1983 with the help of friends. While she found a commercial publisher for her second collection, \"Strangely Marked Metal\" (1985), her work went nearly unrecognized until the mid-1990s, when some of her poems were anthologized and the first reviews in national journals were published. She became widely recognized following her receipt of the Ruth Lilly Poetry Prize in 2004, and published her sixth collection of poetry, \"The Niagara River\", in 2005.\n\nIn July 2008, the U.S. Library of Congress announced that Ryan would be the sixteenth Poet Laureate Consultant in Poetry to the Library of Congress for a one-year term commencing in Autumn 2008. She succeeded Charles Simic. In April 2009, the Library announced that Ryan would serve a second one-year term extending through May 2010. She was succeeded by W.S. Merwin in June 2010.\n\nThe Poetry Foundation's website characterizes Ryan's poems as follows: \"Like Emily Dickinson and Marianne Moore before her, Ryan delights in quirks of logic and language and teases poetry out of the most unlikely places. She regards the 'rehabilitation of clichés,' for instance, as part of the poet’s mission. Characterized by subtle, surprising rhymes and nimble rhythms, her compact poems are charged with sly wit and off-beat wisdom.\" J. D. McClatchy included Ryan in his 2003 anthology of contemporary American poetry. He wrote in his introduction, \"Her poems are compact, exhilarating, strange affairs, like Satie miniatures or Cornell boxes. … There are poets who start with lived life, still damp with sorrow or uncertainty, and lead it towards ideas about life. And there are poets who begin with ideas and draw life in towards their speculations. Marianne Moore and May Swenson were this latter sort of artist; so is Kay Ryan.\"\n\nRyan's poems are often quite short. In one of the first essays on Ryan, Dana Gioia wrote about this aspect of her poetry. \"Ryan reminds us of the suggestive power of poetry–how it elicits and rewards the reader’s intellect, imagination, and emotions. I like to think that Ryan’s magnificently compressed poetry – along with the emergence of other new masters of the short poem like Timothy Murphy and H.L. Hix and the veteran \"maestri\" like Ted Kooser and Dick Davis – signals a return to concision and intensity.\" Ryan tends to avoid using the personal \"I\" in her poetry, claiming that she \"didn’t want confession. [She] didn’t want to be Anne Sexton.\" Though distanced, her work is often deeply introspective, analyzing both the nature of the mind and the ability of language to mold reality.\n\nMany reviewers have noted an affinity between Ryan's poetry and Marianne Moore's.\n\nIn addition to the oft-remarked affinity with Moore, affinities with poets May Swenson, Stevie Smith, Emily Dickinson, Wendy Cope, and Amy Clampitt have been noted by some critics. Thus Katha Pollitt wrote that Ryan's fourth collection, \"Elephant Rocks\" (1997), is \"Stevie Smith rewritten by William Blake\" but that \"Say Uncle\" (2000) \"is like a poetical offspring of George Herbert and the British comic poet Wendy Cope.\" Another reviewer of \"Say Uncle\" (2000) wrote of Ryan, \"Her casual manner and nods to the wisdom tradition might endear her to fans of A. R. Ammons or link her distantly to Emily Dickinson. But her tight structures, odd rhymes and ethical judgments place her more firmly in the tradition of Marianne Moore and, latterly, Amy Clampitt.\"\n\nRyan's wit, quirkiness, and slyness are often noted by reviewers of her poetry, but Jack Foley emphasizes her essential seriousness. In his review of \"Say Uncle\" he writes, \"There is, in short, far more darkness than 'light' in this brilliant, limited volume. Kay Ryan is a serious poet writing serious poems, and she resides on a serious planet (a word she rhymes with 'had it'). Ryan can certainly be funny, but it is rarely without a sting.\" Some of these disjoint qualities in her work are illustrated by her poem \"Outsider Art\", which Harold Bloom selected for the anthology \"The Best of the Best American Poetry 1988–1997\".\n\nRyan is also known for her extensive use of internal rhyme. She refers to her specific methods of using internal rhyme as \"recombinant rhyme.\" She claims that she had a hard time \"tak[ing] end-rhyme seriously,\" and uses recombinant rhyme to bring structure and form to her work. As for other types of form, Ryan claims that she cannot use them, stating that it is \"like wearing the wrong clothes.\"\n\nRyan's awards include a 1995 award from the Ingram Merrill Foundation,\nthe 2000 Union League Poetry Prize,\nthe 2001 Maurice English Poetry Award for her collection \"Say Uncle\",\na fellowship in 2001 from the National Endowment for the Arts, a 2004 Guggenheim Fellowship, and the 2004 Ruth Lilly Poetry Prize. Her poems have been included in three Pushcart Prize anthologies,\nand have been selected four times for \"The Best American Poetry\";\n\"Outsider Art\" was selected by Harold Bloom for \"The Best of the Best American Poetry 1988–1997\". Since 2006, Ryan has served as one of fourteen Chancellors of The Academy of American Poets. On January 22, 2011, Ryan was listed as a finalist for a 2011 National Book Critics Circle Award. On April 18, 2011, she won the annual Pulitzer Prize for Poetry, calling her collection \"The Best of It: New and Selected Poems\" (Grove Press) \"a body of work spanning 45 years, witty, rebellious and yet tender, a treasure trove of an iconoclastic and joyful mind.\"\n\nOn September 20, 2011, Ryan was awarded a John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Fellowship, or \"genius grant\".\n\nIn 2013, she received a 2012 National Humanities Medal from President Barack Obama.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44389561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44389561", "title": "LEAP Science and Maths Schools", "text": "LEAP Science and Maths Schools\n\nLanga Education Assistance Program (LEAP), also known as LEAP Science and Maths Schools, is a collection of six non-fee payment secondary education schools located in three provinces in South Africa. The first LEAP school opened in 2004 in rented premises in Observatory, Cape Town and served mainly, learners from the township of Langa. As an independent school, LEAP is mainly founded by South African Corporates with limited subsidies from the Department of Basic Education.\n\nJohn Gilmour was a teacher at Pinelands High School in Cape Town in 1987 when he decided to respond to a call from individuals within the South African business community, to contribute to the redress of the devastation of the Bantu Education Act, a segregation law imposed in the education sector by the Apartheid system in 1953.\n\n“Africa Week” was then introduced by a team led by John Gilmour to bring black learners under the “Bantu Education” system to spend a week at Pinelands High School, which was then a white’s only school. The program became the precursor for the Langa Education Assistance Program (or LEAP) which aimed at providing one hundred black students from the Langa township, with support tuition from Pinelands High teachers in English, Maths and Science, three afternoons a week.\n\nThe prohibitive transport cost of bringing learners from the township schools to Pinelands High School forced the model to be revised. In 1996, it was then decided that instead of learners being bussed in to Pinelands High, teachers will be transported to meet learners in township schools.\n\nCommunity members in Langa perceived the new model of LEAP as an attempt of white teachers to “save” black children. Teachers from the community felt that they were as able as other teachers to provide extra lessons that would address the inadequacies in the students' educational foundations. The uneasiness within the community obliged the leadership of LEAP to change the model and include community teachers in the program.\n\nWhen John Gilmour realised that despite best efforts of LEAP and similar programs in the country there was no increase in the proportion of black learners entering university, especially science-based disciplines, he sought for an alternative model. LEAP Science and Maths school was the alternative model.\n\nLEAP Science and Maths school was a deliberate decision of John Gilmour seeking to increase the number of black learners who take science and maths-based modules at high school in order to increase the chance of being accepted at University, particular in disciplines where these modules are a prerequisite.\n\nJohn resigned as Headmaster of Abbot’s College in 2004, where he has been since he left Pinelands in 1997, to focus on LEAP Science and Maths School. In January 2004, the first LEAP Science and Maths School opened its doors in the suburb of Observatory, Cape Town, with seventy-two learners, seven teachers and one administrative staff member.\n\nThe LEAP Science and Maths school, which started in Observatory later moved to Pinelands and become known as LEAP 1. It serves learners from community of Langa Township. It is the first and oldest of the LEAP Science and Maths schools. The school is headed by its Operation Leader Oscar Dlodlo.\n\nLEAP 2 opened in 2007 also in Pinelands. It serves learners from the townships of Gugulethu and Crossroads. In 2013, the school opened satellite classes to serve grade 9 and 10 learners from the township of Delft. Learners of the school are taught in English and isiXhosa. The head of the school is Mr. Babele Emedi, who also assumes the role of Operations Leader.\n\nThe school opened its doors in 2008 to serve learners from the township of Alexandra in Johannesburg. Learners are taught in English, isiZulu, Sepedi and Sesotho under the leadership of the Operations leader, Mr. Mark Fletcher.\n\nThis school is situated in the township of Diepsloot just outside Johannesburg. The school opened in 2011 through a partnership with the South Africa corporate Aveng Group. LEAP 4 teaches learners in isiZulu and Sepedi as home languages, along with English. Paul Mumba, is the Operations Leader and head of LEAP 4.\n\nIn 2012, LEAP 5 opened its doors in Jane Furse, Sekhukhune in Limpopo province. The school is under the leadership of its Operation Leader, Raphael Mukachi.\n\nLEAP 6 is situated in Ga-Rankuwa near Pretoria. The school opened in 2012 to respond to the request of the Anglican Diocese of Pretoria, concerned with the community’s poor educational results and high unemployment rate, particularly among young people. The school is led by its Operation Leader, Lawrence Manyesa.\n\n“We strive for the positive transformation of communities through the meaningful education of children from those communities”\n\n“LEAP schools provide student-centered, math’s and science-focused education to economically disadvantaged students from grades 8 to 12. We focus on enabling the self-awareness necessary for each student’s growth to healthy adulthood, and to ensuring optimal academic results which will allow for choices for lifelong learning and a fulfilling future.”\n\nAlthough LEAP schools focus on Maths and Sciences; it puts a lot of emphasis on the emotional development of learners. John Gilmour acknowledged the importance of the emotional development in a country where “eight million children come from single-parent households and a further 4.3 million reside with neither biological parent”. In his article “A tale of two systems”, he speaks of LEAP’s response to this problem “has been to recognise that social transformation starts with personal transformation: one person at a time, one room at a time, one school at a time and one community at a time.”\n\nThe school cherishes the following values:\n\nIn a report that analyses the performance of the school between 2005 and 2013, LEAP reported that:\n\n\nThe school claims to outperform national statistics when it compares itself with national averages of learners who write maths and science in 2013. All LEAP learners wrote these modules compared to only 43% who took maths and 33% who took physical science nationally.\n\nBonisanani Mtshekisa is LEAP’s first university graduate. He graduated with a bachelor in Bachelor of Commerce in Finance from the University of the Western Cape. In its 2012 annual report, the school reported to have over 30 university graduates ranging from physiotherapist, engineer to accountants.\n\nIn 2014, LEAP launched a series of celebratory adverts to showcase its work and celebrate the achievements of its past students. Qondisa Nxganga, a Master’s graduate from the prestigious African Institute for Mathematical Sciences (AIMS), is featured in these adverts alongside a number of other LEAP alumni.\n\nLEAP’s model is based on strong engagement with the broader community and building beneficial partnerships and collaboration with other organizations, particular schools. It is a three-way collaboration approach where each LEAP school partners with a more privileged school as well as a less privileged school (a township school) in the community where it operates to promote a culture of shared resources and cultural exchange\n\nLEAP has also been successful in building strong partnerships with both commercial and non-profit organizations. Most of its funding comes from South African corporates, trusts and Foundations.\n\nLEAP, is Teach with Africa’s partner on the continent and together they have established the Teacher Institute which seeks to develop teachers and supports individuals wanting to enter the teaching profession\n\n"}
{"id": "13098263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13098263", "title": "Life skills-based education", "text": "Life skills-based education\n\nLife skills-based education (LSBE) is a form of education that focuses on cultivating personal life skills such as self-reflection, critical thinking, problem solving and interpersonal skills. LSBE aims to help children reach their full personal potentials and to prepare them for the challenges of everyday life. \n\nLife skills-based education has a long history of supporting child development and health promotion in many parts. In 1986, the Ottawa Charter for Health Promotion recognized life skills in terms of making better health choices. The 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) linked life skills to education by stating that education should be directed towards the development of the child’s fullest potential. The 1990 Jomtien Declaration on Education for All took this vision further and included life skills among essential learning tools for survival, capacity development and quality of life. The 2000 Dakar World Education Conference took a position that all young people and adults have the human right to benefit from \"an education that includes learning to know, to do, to live together and to be\", and included life skills in two out of the six EFA Goals.\n\nLife skills-based education is now recognized as a methodology to address a variety of issues of child and youth development and thematic responses including as expressed in UNGASS on HIV/AIDS (2001), UNGASS on Children (2002), World Youth Report (2003), World Program for Human Rights Education (2004), UN Decade on Education for Sustainable Development (2005), UN Secretary General’s Study on Violence Against Children (2006), 51st Commission on the Status of Women (2007), and the World Development Report (2007).\n\nExpected learning outcomes include a combination of knowledge, values, attitudes and skills with a particular emphasis on those skills that related to critical thinking and problem solving, self-management and communication and inter-personal skills.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1301543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1301543", "title": "List of natural history museums", "text": "List of natural history museums\n\nThis is a list of natural history museums, also known as museums of natural history, i.e. museums whose exhibits focus on the subject of natural history, including such topics as animals, plants, ecosystems, geology, paleontology, and climatology.\n\nSome museums feature natural-history collections in addition to other collections, such as ones related to history, art and science. In addition, nature centers often include natural-history exhibits.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58953043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58953043", "title": "Mahendra Multiple Campus, Dharan", "text": "Mahendra Multiple Campus, Dharan\n\nMahendra Multiple Campus, Dharan (more colloquially : M. M. Campus, ) is a public co-educational institution located in the Central part of the Dharan city and is one of the largest campuses affiliated to the Tribhuvan University. The institution offers undergraduate and graduate (masters) programs. IIt is named after the king King Mahendra\n"}
{"id": "56622994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56622994", "title": "March for Our Lives", "text": "March for Our Lives\n\nMarch for Our Lives (sometimes MFOL) was a student-led demonstration in support of tighter gun control that took place on March 24, 2018, in Washington, D.C., with over 800 sibling events throughout the United States and around the world. Student organizers from Never Again MSD planned the march in collaboration with the nonprofit organization Everytown for Gun Safety. The event followed the February 14, 2018 Stoneman Douglas High School shooting in Parkland, Florida, which was described by many media outlets as a possible tipping point for gun control legislation.\n\nProtesters urged for universal background checks on all gun sales, raising the federal age of gun ownership and possession to 21, closing of the gun show loophole, a restoration of the 1994 Federal Assault Weapons Ban, and a ban on the sale of high-capacity magazines and bump stocks in the United States. Turnout was estimated to be between 1.2 and 2 million people in the United States, making it one of the largest protests in American history.\n\nFollowing the school shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, on February 14, Cameron Kasky, a junior at the school, and his classmates, announced the march four days later. Also joining the march efforts are Alex Wind of Stoneman Douglas High School, who along with four friends created the \"Never Again\" campaign. Emma González and David Hogg, also survivors of the shooting, have been vocal supporters of the march.\n\nThe date was chosen in order to give students, families and others a chance to mourn first, and then on March 24, talk about gun control. Organizers filed a permit application with the National Park Service during the week of February 23, and expected as many as 500,000 people to attend. However, the National Mall, which was the planned site of the main march in Washington, D.C., was reportedly already booked for March 24; the application, filed by an unidentified local student group, claimed it was for a talent show. A permit was later obtained for Pennsylvania Avenue. The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority announced it would operate extra trains for the march.\n\nThe Enough! National School Walkout was held on the one month anniversary of the Stoneman Douglas shooting. It involved students walking out from their classes for exactly seventeen minutes (one for each of the victims of the massacre) and involved more than 3,000 schools across the United States and nearly one million students. Thousands of students also gathered and staged a rally in Washington, D. C., after observing 17 minutes of silence with their backs to the White House. After the success of the walkout, Hogg posted a tweet that included a provocative, NRA-style advertisement calling out lawmakers for their inaction on or opposition to gun control efforts, asking \"What if our politicians weren't the bitch of the NRA?\", and ending with a promotion for the upcoming March.\n\nGeorge Clooney and Scooter Braun were major forces behind the organization of the march, and aided in fundraising efforts behind the scenes. Amal and George Clooney donated $500,000 to support the march and announced they would attend. Oprah Winfrey matched the Clooney donation to support the march. Jeffrey Katzenberg and his wife Marilyn also contributed $500,000. Film director and producer Steven Spielberg and actress Kate Capshaw Spielberg donated $500,000, also matching the donation of the Clooneys. On February 23, Gucci announced they were also donating $500,000 towards the march. Other people and organizations offering support have included Justin Bieber, Gabby Giffords, Lauren Jauregui, Alyssa Milano, Moms Demand Action, Amy Schumer, St. Vincent, Harry Styles, Hayley Williams, Paul McCartney, Kanye West, and Kim Kardashian. John Legend and Chrissy Teigen donated $25,000. Jimmy Fallon pledged to attend an event with his family. Samantha Bee interviewed kids. Jim Jefferies interviewed participants in San Diego. Other celebrities including Taylor Swift have donated an undisclosed amount of money toward the campaign. Justin Timberlake, Will Smith, Cher and Amy Poehler also participated in the March.\n\nJames Corden promoted the March for Our Lives event. John Zimmer and Logan Green, the co-founders of Lyft, announced their support of the rallies and stated that their company would provide free rides for those attending demonstrations. Dating app Bumble CEO Whitney Wolfe Herd subsequently announced that they were supporting the NeverAgain movement by banning all images of firearms on their dating application.\n\nJohn Cena and Millie Bobby Brown applauded the March for Our Lives event at the Kids Choice Awards.\n\nThe founding members of MFOL were awarded Smithsonian Magazine's 2018 American Ingenuity Award in the Youth category.\n\nIn Washington, D.C., a prayer and vigil was held at the Washington National Cathedral on the eve of the rally, as a memorial for the victims of gun violence, and to declare the church's belief, \"This work is rooted in our commitment to Jesus' command to love our neighbors as ourselves... We gather out of a conviction that the right to bear arms does not trump the right to life.\"\nThe litany also included the following refrain:\n\nGuest speakers included Philip and April Schentrup, parents of 16-year-old Carmen Schentrup, who was killed in the shooting in Parkland, Florida.\n\nMarch for Our Lives was among the biggest youth-led protests since the Vietnam War era. Estimates of participation at the main event in Washington, D. C., range from 200,000 to 800,000.\n\nThe speakers—all of whom were high schoolers or younger—included Marjory Stoneman Douglas students Cameron Kasky, David Hogg, Delaney Tarr, Sarah Chadwick, Alex Wind, Jaclyn Corin, Ryan Deitsch, Aalayah Eastmond, Samantha Fuentes, and Emma González. Hunter Pollack, brother of victim Meadow Pollack, was scheduled to speak but did not attend due to a logistical issue, which he contended was a result of being misled by event officials. David Hogg tweeted out a video of Hunter's speech from a later event.\n\nOther participants included Naomi Wadler, who is an elementary school student in Alexandria, Virginia, Trevon Bosley from Chicago whose brother was shot and killed leaving church, Edna Lizbeth Chavez, a high school student from Los Angeles, and Zion Kelly, whose twin brother was shot and killed during an armed robbery. Yolanda Renee King, granddaughter of Martin Luther King Jr., also made an appearance along with Mya Middleton, a student from Chicago representing After School Matters, Matt Post, a senior from Montgomery County, Christopher Underwood, an 11-year old from New York, Alex King and D'Angelo McDade from Chicago, and Matthew Soto, brother of Sandy Hook victim Victoria Soto.\nGonzález, after speaking and naming the seventeen victims, stood silent for over four minutes, after which a cellphone alarm went off and she announced that it was the six minute and twenty second point in her speech, equal to the length of the Parkland shooting. González ended her speech saying,\n\nthen walked off stage as the entire crowd along Pennsylvania Avenue applauded loudly. Her speech and emotional moment of silence was praised by media organizations as one of the \"most memorable\" and \"powerful\" moments in the day's events.\n\nSingers Ariana Grande, Lin-Manuel Miranda, Ben Platt, Miley Cyrus, Jennifer Hudson, Andra Day, Common, Selena Gomez, Lady Gaga, and Demi Lovato joined student-led marchers in Washington, D. C.\n\nOn March 21, NRA TV host Grant Stinchfield stated that \"March for Our Lives is backed by radicals with a history of violent threats, language and actions\"; fact-checker PolitiFact has rated this statement as being \"without merit\" and \"Pants on Fire\" indicating that it is a \"ridiculous claim\".\n\nWhile the march was occurring, the NRA posted a membership drive video on their Facebook page, declaring that the \"protests aren't spontaneous. Gun-hating billionaires and Hollywood elites are manipulating and exploiting children as part of their plan to DESTROY the Second Amendment\". Another video dubbed \"A March for Their Lies\" was uploaded to YouTube featuring Colion Noir, in which he described the planned rally as a \"carnival of a march\". Noir also said in the video that there is an \"agenda that's a million times bigger than the guns\".\n\n\"The Washington Post\" reported that there were many Democrats encouraging the marchers, and many of them, including candidates for office, participated from the sidelines in the march, but few Republicans did similarly. The White House said in a response that they \"applaud the many courageous young Americans exercising their first amendment rights\".\n\nOn the day of the protests, Florida Republican senator Marco Rubio responded by stating: \"However, many other Americans do not support a gun ban\" and \"view banning guns as an infringement on the Second Amendment rights of law abiding citizens that ultimately will not prevent these tragedies\". He called for protesters to find \"common ground with those who hold opposing views\" for change to happen. However, a blanket gun ban was not called for by the protests.\n\nFormer Republican senator and presidential candidate Rick Santorum criticized the Parkland activists, suggesting during an interview with CNN that students should be learning ways to respond to a shooter rather than asking lawmakers \"to solve their problem\"; Santorum advised students to take classes in CPR rather than marching in Washington. \"The Washington Post\" quoted several doctors responding to Santorum that CPR would not be at all effective on gunshot victims as they were suffering from blood loss.\n\nFormer Democratic President Barack Obama said that he was \"so inspired by all the young people\" who made March for Our Lives possible. He addressed them: \"Keep at it. You're leading us forward. Nothing can stand in the way of millions of voices calling for change.\"\n\nA report in \"The New Yorker\" praised the leaders of the march for their \"extraordinary inclusiveness\" in that they expanded the locus of concern from suburban schools to those of urban neighborhoods as well.\n\nOn social media, fake pictures and GIFs of Emma González tearing up a copy of the U.S. Constitution were circulated in an effort to discredit the march. The images were doctored from originals of González tearing up a shooting target sign. Actor and conservative commentator Adam Baldwin defended circulating the doctored images as \"political satire\".\n\nJesse Hughes, a survivor of the Bataclan terrorist attack, called the march \"pathetic\", but after being criticized for his comment, later apologized saying, \"I was not attempting to impugn the youth of America and this beautiful thing that they accomplished. I truly am sorry, I did not mean to hurt anyone or cause any harm.\"\n\nIn anticipation and planning of the day's events, many streets in the nation's capital were closed to vehicle traffic. Several blocks of streets encompassing much of the National Mall, stretching from the Washington Monument to the United States Capitol and from Independence Avenue to E Street, were closed to vehicle traffic. Some of the rally-goers grouped at Trump Hotel, expressing displeasure that the Trump administration has not addressed school safety nor gun control in a meaningful way.\n\nIn Connecticut, marches took place in Hartford, East Haddam, Enfield, Guilford, Middlebury, New Haven, Old Saybrook, Pawcatuck, Roxbury, Salisbury, Shelton, Stamford and Westport.\n\nIn Maine, demonstrations took place in at least fifteen communities throughout the state, the largest demonstration occurring in the city of Portland, with smaller marches in the cities of Bangor, Orono, Lewiston and Presque Isle.\n\nIn Massachusetts, demonstrations were held in Boston (Boston Common), Cape Ann and Martha's Vineyard. WGBH reported that marches took place in Beverly, Hyannis (1,500 participants), Worcester (1,000 participants), Springfield (several hundred), Falmouth (500 participants). Boston Police estimate 80,000 people joined the demonstration.\n\nIn New Hampshire, marches took place in Concord and Portsmouth and Jackson. The Concord event was organized by Eve Caplan, a sophomore at John Stark Regional High School,and another high school student in Plymouth, New Hampshire. Portsmouth had a demonstration in Market Square, and was organized Sarah Mae Brown, a leader of The Resistance Seacoast.\n\nIn New Jersey, demonstrations took place in Trenton, Newark, Asbury Park, Hackensack, Haddon Heights, Hoboken, Jersey City, Montclair, Morristown, Ocean City, Somerset County Somerville, Union and Westfield.\n\nIn New York, demonstrations were held in Albany, Binghamton, Buffalo, Cobleskill, Ithaca, Oneonta, Rochester (Washington Square Park), and White Plains. In New York City, where an estimated 200,000 people marched, the musician Paul McCartney cited the murder of John Lennon as motivation for joining the protests when he told a CNN journalist, \"One of my best friends was killed in gun violence.\"\n\nIn Pennsylvania, marches took place in Allentown, Bloomsburg, Doylestown, Easton, Erie, Lancaster, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Reading, Scranton and State College. Jay Leno made an appearance in West Chester, Pa.\n\nA march took place in Providence, Rhode Island. Thousands of people gathered on the lawn of the Rhode Island State House.\n\nIn Montpelier, Vermont, city officials estimated that 2,500 people participated in the demonstration on the State House lawn. Elsewhere, demonstrations took place in Bennington, Putney, Rutland, Manchester and Middlebury.\n\nIn Illinois, demonstrations were held in Chicago, Glen Ellyn, Springfield, Vernon Hills, and Downers Grove.\n\nIn Indiana, a march was planned in Indianapolis.\n\nIn Iowa, marches were planned in Des Moines, Iowa City Davenport, and in Cedar Rapids. \n\nIn Michigan, Marches occurred in Detroit, Grand Rapids, Lansing, among many statewide.\n\nIn Minnesota, 20,000 people attended a march in Saint Paul Other marches were held in Rochester, Grand Marais, Duluth, Aitkin, Karlstad, Ely, Brainerd, Starbuck, Sartell, North Branch, Willmar, Mankato.\n\nIn Missouri, marches took place in Kansas City, O'Fallon, Springfield and St. Louis. The St. Louis march was scheduled to begin at 10:00am at Union Station and culminate at the Gateway Arch. Initial estimates anticipate 10,000 attendees. The Kansas City rally held at Theis (Volker) Park, just south of the Nelson-Atkins Art Gallery, drew 6,000 participants. The KC March was organized by students from area-wide high schools, who set up a Facebook page chronicling the event. Twenty-one Kansas & Missouri organizations hosted the event. The rally culminated in a march through the nearby Country Club Plaza upscale shopping district. Organizers partnered with the Poor People's Campaign to promote their Faith Assembly at Community Christian Church—planned by Kansas and Missouri organizers together.\n\nIn North Dakota, marches took place in Fargo, Bismarck and Minot.\n\nIn Ohio there was a rally in Cleveland in Public Square. In Cincinnati a rally took place at City Hall, which followed a performance with seventeen flutes made from shotgun barrels, as a memorial to the victims of the Parkland shooting. Another march occurred in Columbus at the Ohio Statehouse, and other rallies took place in Athens and Dayton, each drawing hundreds of protesters.\n\nIn South Dakota, hundreds attended a march in Sioux Falls. Sister marches were held in Rapid City and Vermillion.\n\nIn Wisconsin, marches were planned in Green Bay, La Crosse, Madison, Appleton and Milwaukee.\n\nIn Kansas, demonstrations were planned in Wichita, Topeka, Lawrence, and Kansas City's Theis Park. Police estimated 5-6,000 participants in Kansas City's event.\n\nIn Alabama, marches took place in Birmingham, Mobile, Dothan, Montgomery, Selma, Jasper, and Florence. The largest of these, the Birmingham march, drew over 5,000 attendees.\n\nIn Florida, demonstrations took place in Gulf Breeze, Miami Beach, Orlando and West Palm Beach, Naples where 3,000 people gathered at Cambier Park for the march and a rally. The Orlando march was organized by students of UCF, and was held at Lake Eola Park in downtown Orlando with 35,000 people in attendance. The city where the school shooting occurred, Parkland, also had a march. Similar marches were also held in northeast Florida in Jacksonville, Fernandina Beach, and Saint Augustine\n\nA rally in Jacksonville had a turnout of over 1,000 people in Hemming Park. Hundreds of people marched from Hemming Park to the Duval County Courthouse with signs including: \"Grab them by the mid-terms\" and \"#neveragain\". Notable speakers included John Phillips, the civil attorney of Jordan Davis, the seventeen year old who was shot and killed at a gas station in 2012 and Stranger Things actor Chester Rushing. In Saint Augustine, the march began by walking over the Bridge of Lions, down Avenida Menenedez, ending at Fort Castillo. The event was organized by Flagler college students with assistance from Indivisible St. Johns, St. Johns DEC, Women's March St.Augustine, and Ponte Vedra United Progress.\n\nThe Fernandina march saw a turnout of around 1,200, and began north on 6th Street and then down Centre Street. One sign read: \"Let's be responsible adults\"; another stated: \"Organizing, An Active Form of Grieving\".\n\nIn Georgia, rallies were held at the Georgia State Capitol in Atlanta. Athens, Augusta, and Dahlonega.\n\nIn Kentucky, marches were held in Bowling Green, Calvert City, Lexington, Louisville and Marshall County.\n\nIn Louisiana, marches were held in Baton Rouge, Lafayette, and New Orleans.\n\nIn Maryland, students from Severna Park High School and other Anne Arundel County Public Schools planned a demonstration to be held at Lawyer's Mall in Annapolis. They invited 188 state legislators. Students, teachers, the Annapolis Mayor Gavin Buckley, and Moms Demand Action were scheduled to speak. In Baltimore, student members of the Student Activist Association at Baltimore Polytechnic Institute organized a march to begin at War Memorial Plaza in front of City Hall and ending near the Inner Harbor. The Mayor of Baltimore, Catherine E. Pugh also announced that she was organizing 60 free buses to take students to the demonstrations in Washington, D. C.\n\nIn North Carolina, marches were held in Asheville, Charlotte, Durham, Raleigh, and Wilmington.\n\nIn Oklahoma, marches were held in Oklahoma City and Tulsa.\n\nIn South Carolina, marches were held in downtown Charleston, Greenville, and Columbia.\n\nIn Tennessee, demonstrations were held in Chattanooga, Knoxville, Memphis, Cookeville, and Nashville.\n\nIn Texas, demonstrations were held in Austin, Corpus Christi, Dallas, El Paso, Fort Worth, Houston, and San Antonio. In Corpus Christi, students from W. B. Ray High School were scheduled to lead a march at 3:00pm in Sherill Veterans Memorial Park.\n\nIn Virginia, Richmond Public Schools planned a march to take place at the Virginia State Capitol at 10:00am. A march was also scheduled in downtown Norfolk.\n\nIn Alaska, A march attended by hundreds of people occurred in Anchorage. Marches also took place in Fairbanks, Homer, Juneau and Ketchikan.\n\nIn Arizona, marches were held in Phoenix, Prescott, Tucson and Sahuarita.\n\nIn California, marches were held in Encinitas, Escondido, Fresno, Los Angeles, Orange County, Sacramento, San Diego, San Luis Obispo, San Jose, Oakland, and San Francisco.\n\nIn Hawaii, demonstrations were held in Honolulu, Kahului, and Waimea.\n\nA march was held in each of the cities of Denver, Colorado; Boise, Idaho; Idaho Falls; and Helena, Montana;\n\nIn New Mexico, marches were held in Albuquerque and Santa Fe.\n\nIn Oregon, marches happened in Corvallis, Bend, Eugene, Salem, Florence, Coos Bay and Portland. The Portland event included a march from the North Park Blocks to Pioneer Courthouse Square, where Portugal. The Man performed.\n\nIn Utah, there were several marches planned including in Logan, Salt Lake City, Park City, Provo, Cedar City and St. George.\n\nIn the state of Washington, marches attended by hundreds took place in Spokane, and Yakima. Thousands marched in Seattle and Bellingham.\n\nIn an official announcement to the state, Governor Ricardo Rosselló announced that he commissioned the Secretary of State, Luis G. Rivera Marín, to begin preparations for the march in San Juan. Rosselló called for all citizens and civic, religious, and private sector organizations to stand united in solidarity for improved gun control. He also remarked that Puerto Rico has the strictest gun control regulations of all jurisdictions in the country. Rivera Marín stated that \"our communities need to be a place where our people have peace, not fear\". He announced that the march would begin at Condado Lagoon and culminate at the Peace Pavilion in Luis Muñoz Rivera Park.\n\nIn British Columbia, marches were planned in Vancouver and Victoria.\n\nMarches were set to take place in Calgary and Edmonton, Alberta.\n\nStudents from R.D. Parker Collegiate in Thompson, Manitoba, were planning to march.\n\nIn Ontario, marches were planned in Ottawa, Guelph, Kitchener, Stratford, Toronto, and Waterloo.\n\nIn Quebec marches were planned in Montreal, Westmount, Quebec City, and Sherbrooke.\n\nNew Brunswick was set to have a march in Fredericton.\n\nNewfoundland and Labrador planned a march to take place in St. John's.\n\nMarches were planned in Accra, Ghana; and Mozambique.\n\nSurvivors from the Parkland shooting spoke at the rally in Tel Aviv, Israel, which took place at the U.S. Embassy.\n\nMarches were planned for Hong Kong; Mumbai, India; and Tokyo and Okinawa, Japan.\n\nStudents from the International School of Geneva in Switzerland organized a rally outside the European headquarters of the United Nations, attracting hundreds of students.\n\nIn Germany, protests were held in Berlin, Hamburg, Frankfurt, Friedrichshafen, Heidelberg, Munich, and Wiesbaden. Events also took place in Reykjavík, Barcelona, Oslo, Stockholm, and Geneva.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, hundreds marched outside the US embassy in London. Marchers also held a \"die in\" and lay on the ground outside the US embassy to show solidarity with the Parkland students. Demonstrations also took place in Belfast and London. In Scotland, relatives of the Dunblane massacre victims joined a demonstration outside the US consulate in Edinburgh.\n\nInternational and American students rallied in Rome near the US embassy, some holding signs that read \"Protect People, Not Guns\", \"Enough is Enough\", and \"Dress Codes Are More Regulated Than Guns\", as they wanted to make their voice clear to America. The march in Rome was organized by the Rome chapter of American Expats for Positive Change (AEPC); the organizers stated their efforts to support America and safety in U.S. schools, even though gun violence was not solely an American issue.\n\nIn Amsterdam, hundreds participated in a demonstration near the US consulate on the Museumplein. The organizers and speakers included American and Dutch high school students, an alumna of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, and a Florida student walkout organizer who lost a friend in the Parkland shooting.\n\nProtests were also held in Vienna, Paris, The Hague, Majorca, Copenhagen, and Brussels.\n\nMarches were planned for Melbourne, Brisbane, Canberra, and Sydney, Australia.\n\nNew Zealand planned marches in Albert Park, Auckland; Parliament House, Wellington; Cathedral Square, Christchurch; and Union Hall at the University of Otago, Dunedin.\n\nIn Argentina, a march was planned in Buenos Aires.\n\n"}
{"id": "16524137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16524137", "title": "Mary Rockwell Hook", "text": "Mary Rockwell Hook\n\nMary Rockwell Hook (September 8, 1877 – September 8, 1978) was an American architect and a pioneer for women in architecture. She worked principally from Kansas City, Missouri but designed throughout the United States. She was denied admission to the American Institute of Architects (AIA) because of her gender.\n\nHowever, she did obtain recognition for her work, including by the AIA, later, on her 100th birthday. And according to an article in the newsletter of the International Archive of Women in Architecture, \"Mary Rockwell Hook will be remembered, not because she was a woman working in a 'man's field,' but because she was a successful designer who made her mark in the field of architecture.\"\n\nBetween 1910 - 1930, there were actually five women who worked as architects in the Kansas City area. Hook was the only one to achieve any wider recognition.\n\nBorn in Junction City, Kansas, Mary was the third of five daughters of Bertrand Rockwell (1844-1930), a captain of the Army and successful grain merchant and banker, and Julia Marshall Snyder (1850-1947), a vital woman who was the first historian for the parish known today as Grace and Holy Trinity Cathedral of the Episcopal Diocese of West Missouri, in Kansas City, Missouri. In 1906, the Rockwell family moved to Kansas City. Mary Rockwell married Inghram D. Hook (1883-1973), an attorney, in 1921. The couple adopted two boys, Eugene and Edward (Dick). Mary died on her 101st birthday.\n\nMary Rockwell (later Hook) graduated from Wellesley College in 1900. According to Hook's autobiography, she decided to become an architect after a 1902 family trip abroad:\n\nIt was during this trip home from the Philippines that I decided someone needed to improve the design of the buildings used by our government abroad. I made up my mind to go home and study architecture.\n\nIn 1903, she enrolled as the only woman in her class in the architecture department at the Art Institute of Chicago.\n\nIn 1905, Rockwell (later Hook) went to Paris to study in the atelier of Marcel Auburtin, an admirer of her sister Kitty, as a prerequisite for being admitted at the École des Beaux-Arts. As a female student in a predominantly male school, Rockwell (Hook) faced gender discrimination. In 1906, after her entrance examinations at the École des Beaux-Arts, French male students intended to fling buckets of water at her as she fled through the courtyard. She did not pass the exam nor repeated it as other students did and thus did not study at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts. Instead, she explored French architecture on bicycle trips with her sister.\n\n\"The Kansas City Star\" later wrote that the era was one \"when male architects were openly antagonistic to women joining the profession.\"\n\nDiscrimination did not end with her training. When she applied for her first job in an architecture office in Kansas City, she was rejected because \"you can't swear at women and they can't climb all over full sized details.\" However, the next firm gladly employed her, although without a salary because her father did not allow her to be paid.\n\nThe American Institute of Architects (AIA) denied Hook's membership because of her gender. Upon her 100th birthday in 1977, however, the professional organization presented her with a plaque for distinguished service. Kansas City residents further celebrated the occasion by touring famous homes that she had designed locally.\n\nAround 1913, when Katherine Pettit and Ethel De Long Zande were preparing for the foundation of Pine Mountain Settlement School in the Appalachian Mountains, Ethel wrote Mary Rockwell asking her to plan its campus. By then, she had successfully designed several houses. Hook later described Pine Mountain as \"an 18th-century world\" where \"there is no village to mar the peaceful landscape, where trains, motors, and chewing gum have not penetrated.\"\n\nAfter studying the area, the three agreed that lower lands should be used for farming to feed the students while steeper lands would be used for construction. Public buildings would be central, and cottages would line the edges of the valley.\n\nRockwell's (later Hook) first project for the campus construction was the renovation of a dilapidated log cabin called Old Log House. She next designed a log house for Pettit. Hook worked with local resources in her designs, including chestnut, poplar, oak, and boulders. Even though a mill was installed on campus, it took more than a year to cut and dry lumber for Laurel House, the school's dining hall.\n\nHook remained involved with the school as a member of the Board of Trustees until she was over 90 years old. Pine Mountain Settlement School is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and is now a National Historic Landmark.\n\nUndated:<br>\nScience Building with Printshop and Workshop<br>\n\"Open House\" for Mary Rockwell, Ethel McCullough, and Margaret Butler.\n\n1914:<br>\nOld Log House Restoration<br>\nMiss Pettit's House<br>\nLaurel House\n\n1919:<br>\nOffice\n\n1922-24:<br>\nChapel\n\n1940:<br>\nReplacement of Laurel House after a fire.\n\nIn 1923, Hook returned to Kansas City and started the Hook and Remington architectural firm with partner Eric Douglas Macwilliam Remington (1893-1975). They worked together until 1932 when Remington settled in San Francisco.\n\nDespite blindness in her later years, Hook imagined designs and offered ideas to modify the White House and other buildings.\n\nMary Rockwell Hook's Kansas City designs date from as early as 1908, with her most eminent work completed during the 1920s and 1930s in the Sunset Hills area. Many of her designs in Sunset Hills pay tribute to the architectural styles she witnessed during childhood trips to Europe and East Asia. Hook's Italianate architecture was evidenced by her synthesis of brick, stone, and antique materials with tiles, frescoes, and leaded panes. Hook's own home, which she designed in 1925, is one example of an Italianate residence. Nine of Hook's works in Kansas City were studied in a National Register of Historic Places \"Thematic Resources\" study and were listed on the National Register with extensive descriptions and analysis.\n\n\nMany of Hook's early houses were commissioned for members of her family. She later also received several commissions from non-family members.\n\nWhile the Rockwell family traveled widely for the enrichment of their daughters' education, Bertrand Rockwell sought the mild climate of Northern California to improve his health on the advice of his brother-in-law, a medical doctor in Santa Rosa. There, Mary's sister Florence met and married James Edwards. Around 1908, Mary built a house for them in Santa Rosa. The asymmetrical house was designed in the First Bay Area Tradition. For many years, the architect of the house was unknown and assumed to be Julia Morgan or Brainerd Jones of Petaluma. The house is listed under the name of the second owner as the Wasserman House on the National Register of Historic Places. However, the listing does not include the well-documented findings of architectural historian Jeffrey Elliott such as the names of the first owners, James and Florence Edwards, nor the architect's name, Mary Rockwell (Hook). The house was transformed into an office building with careful attention to the original design.\n\nThe second house in California was designed at the height of her career in 1926 as an impressive French mansion called \"Le Soleil\" for Francis and Katherine Crosby in Woodside, an hour south of San Francisco. Francis Crosby was the president of the Key System transportation service and owner of several small telephone companies. The design of \"Le Soleil\" was a collaboration of three Rockwell sisters: Mary Rockwell Hook and her partner Eric Douglas Remington were the architects; Katherine Rockwell Crosby, the owner, designed the interior, acquired the furniture and designed the French gardens, and Bertha Rockwell Venanzi, an artist living in Italy, painted floral murals in the grand ballroom. The estate has many formal rooms for entertaining with requisite kitchen and cellar rooms, a total of seven bedroom suites, and a garage for nine cars, all on a large property of several beautifully landscaped acres with a pool and tennis court.\n\n1908 James and Florence Edwards House, 930 Mendocino Avenue, Santa Rosa, also known as the Wasserman House;\n\n1926 Francis and Katherine Crosby House \"Le Soleil\", 320 Harcross Road, Woodside.\n\nAfter purchasing of Gulf-front property on Siesta Key, Florida in 1935, Hook developed part of the area with her designs. In Whispering Sands, she designed a resort hotel and vacation homes as a sanctuary for writers and artists. Another subdivision called Sandy Hook was intended to be a residential area for architects and incubator for the Sarasota School of Architecture. In 1952, Hook developed another area called Sandy Cove and designed her own octagon-shaped home where she spent the last years of her life.\n\n1936 and later:<br>\nWhispering Sands: Resort Hotel, Glass House for guests, two vacation houses, house for her family\n\n1945:<br>\nWhispering Sands: House for Hook's son Dick and his family\n\n1945<br>\nSandy Hook: House by Hook for herself and her husband, Plans for a small architectural school (never realized)<br>\nHouses designed by other architects, mostly from the Sarasota School of Architecture (such as Paul Rudolph)\n\n1952 and later:<br>\nSandy Cove: 12-acre development with 113 homes<br>\nTwo winter cottages off Ocean Boulevard<br>\nHook's own octagon-shaped home where she died.\n\nMary Rockwell Hook was the first Kansas City architect to incorporate natural formations in her designs. When she continued this style on Siesta Key, local newspaper \"Sarasota Herald-Tribune\" described Hook as \"bringing the outdoors in, and many of the homes she designed on Siesta Key reflected the trend long before it became popular.\"\n\nIn Siesta Key, Hook used solar power to heat water for the resort hotel Whispering Sands as early as 1937.\n\nMary Rockwell Hook was the first architect in Kansas City to use cast-in-place concrete walls. Additionally, one of her house designs was the first in Kansas City to include a private swimming pool, while another was the first to have an attached garage.\n\nMary Rockwell Hook used salvaged materials in her designs as for example marble tiles salvaged from a hotel in Topeka.\n\n"}
{"id": "10920490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10920490", "title": "Mehmet Oz", "text": "Mehmet Oz\n\nMehmet Cengiz Öz (; born June 11, 1960), known professionally as Dr. Oz, is a Turkish American television personality, cardiothoracic surgeon, Columbia University professor, pseudoscience promoter, and author.\n\nOz came to general prominence with appearances on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" beginning in 2004, and later on \"Larry King Live\" and other TV programs. In 2009, \"The Dr. Oz Show\", a daily television program focusing on medical issues and personal health, was launched by Winfrey's Harpo Productions and Sony Pictures.\n\nHe is a proponent of alternative medicine, and has been criticized by physicians, government officials, and publications, including \"Popular Science\" and \"The New Yorker\", for giving non-scientific advice and promoting pseudoscience. In a Senate hearing on weight loss scams, Senator Claire McCaskill chided Oz, saying: \"The scientific community is almost monolithic against you in terms of the efficacy of the three products you call miracles\". In 2014 the British Medical Journal examined over 400 medical or health recommendations from 40 episodes of his program and found that only 46% of his claims were supported by reputable research, while 15% of his claims contradicted medical research and the remainder of Oz's advice were either vague banalities or unsupported by research.\n\nOz was born in 1960 in Cleveland, Ohio, to Suna and Mustafa Öz, who had emigrated from Konya Province, Turkey. Mustafa, born in Bozkır, a small town in central Turkey, earned scholarships that allowed him to emigrate to the United States as a medical resident in 1955. Suna (née Atabay), who comes from a wealthy İstanbul family, is the daughter of a pharmacist with Circassian (Shapsug) descent on her mother's side. Oz has two sisters, Seval Öz and Nazlim Öz.\n\nOz was educated at Tower Hill School in Wilmington, Delaware. In 1982, he received his undergraduate degree in biology at Harvard University. In 1986, he obtained MD and MBA degrees respectively at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine and Penn's Wharton School. He was awarded the Captain's Athletic Award for leadership in college and was class president and then student body president during medical school.\n\nOz has been a professor at the Department of Surgery at Columbia University since 2001. He directs the Cardiovascular Institute and Complementary Medicine Program at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. His research interests include heart valve replacement surgery, minimally invasive cardiac surgery, and health care policy.\n\nIn 2010, Oz joined Jeff Arnold as co-founder of Sharecare, Inc., providing an interactive question and answer platform for industry experts to answer health-related questions.\n\nOz appeared as a health expert on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" for five seasons.\n\nHis show debuted September 14, 2009. The show is co-produced by Oprah Winfrey's Harpo Productions and distributed by Sony Pictures Television. It is the second \"Oprah\" spin-off series featuring a regular guest (\"Dr. Phil\" being the first), and it marks the first time that Winfrey's company has partnered with another studio outside of the current CBS Television Distribution, which co-produces her series as well as her other series. This is assumed to be because \"The Dr. Oz Show\" is in direct competition with the \"Dr. Phil\" spinoff \"The Doctors\", which CBS distributes. For the first four seasons, shows were recorded in Studio 6A at NBC Studios in New York, but vacated Rockefeller Center after NBC reclaimed the space for its \"Late Night\" franchise. Beginning with season five, \"Dr. Oz\" originates from ABC Television Center East on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.\n\nOn the show, Oz addressed issues like Type 2 diabetes and promoted resveratrol supplements, which he stated were anti-aging. His \"Transplant!\" television series won both a Freddie and a Silver Telly award. He served as medical director for Denzel Washington's \"John Q\".\n\nIn January 2011, Oz premiered as part of a weekly show on OWN called \"Oprah's Allstars\". In each episode, he, Suze Orman, and Dr. Phil answer various questions about life, health and finance. He also currently does a health segment on 1010 WINS titled \"Your Daily Dose\".\n\nOn October 23, 2014, \"Surgeon Oz\", showing Oz's career as a surgeon, debuted on OWN.\n\nOz co-authored, with Michael F. Roizen, six \"New York Times\" best sellers including \"You: The Owner's Manual\", \"You: The Smart Patient\", \"You: On a Diet\", \"You: Staying Young\", \"You: Being Beautiful\" as well as \"Healing from the Heart\". His book \"You: Having a Baby\" was published by Free Press in 2009. He has a regular column in \"Esquire\" magazine and \"O, The Oprah Magazine\" and his article \"Retool, Reboot, and Rebuild\" was awarded the 2009 National Magazine Award for Personal Service.\n\nOz and the Hearst Corporation launched the bi-monthly magazine \"Dr. Oz THE GOOD LIFE\" on February 4, 2014.\n\n\"Time\" magazine ranked Oz at 44th on its list of the \"100 Most Influential People in 2008\" and \"Esquire\" magazine placed him on its list of the \"75 Most Influential People of the 21st Century\". He was named one of \"The Harvard 100 Most Influential Alumni\" by \"02138\" magazine. He was listed in \"Doctors of the Year\" by \"Hippocrates\" magazine and in \"Healers of the Millennium\" by \"Healthy Living\" magazine.\n\nOther awards and honors include:\n\nOz has faced criticism due to his tendency to feature non-scientific and pseudoscientific advice.\n\nIn September 2011, Oz drew criticism for a show focusing on the alleged dangers of arsenic in apple juice. Oz hired an independent toxicology laboratory, EMSL, and found arsenic levels in some samples to be above the limit the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) allows in drinking water. The FDA said \"there is currently no evidence to suggest a public health risk\", and criticized the emphasis on measurements of total arsenic without distinguishing between harmless organic arsenic compounds and toxic inorganic arsenic compounds that pose differing levels of health risk.\n\nConsumer Reports conducted similar tests on samples of apple and grape juices around the same time. Unlike the tests done by Oz, Consumer Reports tested for both organic and inorganic types of arsenic. Results showed that 6% (5 out of 80) of the samples tested by Consumer Reports exceeded the 10-parts-per-billion (ppb) federal limit for arsenic in drinking water. When counting only inorganic arsenic, one of the 80 apple juice samples tested slightly exceeded 10-parts-per-billion limit, at 10.48 ppb. The limits only apply to arsenic levels for drinking water; there are no legal limits for arsenic in fruit juices. After the \"Dr. Oz Show\" aired, the FDA indicated it is continuing to research the levels of arsenic in fruit juices and other foods, and may implement limits for fruit juices in the future.\n\nOz is a spokesman and advisor for the website RealAge.com, which \"The New York Times\" has criticized for its pharmaceutical marketing practices. The site solicits medical information from visitors to determine a visitor's biological age and then uses the visitor's medical profile for pharmaceutical marketing purposes. As \"The Times\" reporter explained the significance of this fact: \"While few people would fill out a detailed questionnaire about their health and hand it over to a drug company looking for suggestions for new medications, that is essentially what RealAge is doing.\"\n\nA November 28, 2012 episode of \"The Dr. Oz Show\" was devoted to reparative therapy, \"forms of therapy that are designed to turn a gay person straight\", all of which have been directly rejected by the mainstream mental health professions. The broadcast featured Julie Hamilton, a representative of the National Association for Research and Therapy of Homosexuality (NARTH), which offers reparative therapy, and also had guests who condemned it. Three of the groups who were consulted for the show — GLAAD, GLSEN, and PFLAG National — issued a joint press release repudiating the episode just after it aired. The press release, calling NARTH \"a splinter group of anti-gay therapists/activists\", criticized the episode for starting with two segments of the show featuring proponents of reparative therapy without challenge, then introducing the NARTH representative as an \"expert\", and providing no opinion by Dr. Oz on the subject, which the press release authors characterized as causing the audience to be \"misled to believe that there are actual experts on both sides of this issue\". The press release also stated that \"GLSEN would not have participated in The Dr. Oz Show had we known that NARTH would be represented\". Oz responded in a blog post, mentioning the opposition of respected medical organizations to the practice of reparative therapy, and saying that \"if we want to reach everyone who might benefit from understanding the risks of this therapy, you have to present multiple perspectives.\" He also said that he agreed \"with the established medical consensus\", that he had \"not found enough published data supporting positive results with gay reparative therapy\", and that he was concerned about \"potentially dangerous effects when the therapy fails\". Oz also pointed out that \"the guests who appeared on my show on either side of this debate agreed that entering into any therapy with guilt and self-hate is a major error.\"\n\nDuring a Senate hearing on consumer protection, Senator Claire McCaskill stated that by airing segments on weight loss products that are later cited in advertisements, Oz plays a role, intentional or not, in perpetuating these scams, and that she is \"concerned that you are melding medical advice, news, and entertainment in a way that harms consumers.\" Mary Engle of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) criticized Oz for calling green coffee extract \"magic\" and a \"miracle\", stating that it is difficult for consumers to listen to their inner voices when products are praised by hosts they trust.\n\nOne of the products Oz was promoting, Green Coffee Bean Extract, was found to have no weight loss benefits. Two of the researchers who were paid to write the study admitted that they could not back their data so they retracted their paper. The FTC filed a complaint that the Texas-based company Applied Food Sciences (the promoters of the study) had falsely advertised. The FTC alleged that the study was \"so hopelessly flawed that no reliable conclusions could be drawn from it\" so Applied Food Sciences agreed to pay a $3.5 million settlement.\n\n\"Popular Science\" and \"The New Yorker\" have published critical articles on Oz for giving \"non-scientific\" advice. These criticisms include questioning if he is \"doing more harm than good\" and pointing out his \"irresponsible and dangerous\" treatment of eating disorders.\n\nThe James Randi Educational Foundation has awarded Oz with their Pigasus Award, an award intended \"to expose parapsychological, paranormal or psychic frauds that Randi has noted over the previous year.\" The award consists of a silver flying pig and refers to claiming something so doubtful that it will only happen \"when pigs fly\". Oz has been given this award on three separate occasions, more than any other recipient:\n\n\nOz has also been supportive of homeopathy.\n\nAs well, Oz's image and quotes have been used in many weight loss product scams. While he himself has not been found to be involved in these scams, he has made statements that were exploited by scammers.\n\nOz has stated that he is a proponent of alternative medicine and that he makes great efforts to inform viewers that he neither sells nor endorses any supplements.\n\nA study published in the British Medical Journal on the effectiveness of Oz's medical advice found that only 46 percent of his recommendations had any scientific backing or rationale. The study showed that 39 percent had no supporting scientific evidence, while the remaining 15 percentage points went directly against scientific evidence.\n\nIn April 2015, a group of ten physicians from across the United States, including Henry Miller, a fellow in scientific philosophy and public policy at Stanford University's Hoover Institute, sent a letter to Columbia University calling Oz's faculty position unacceptable. They accused Oz of \"an egregious lack of integrity by promoting quack treatments and cures in the interest of personal financial gain\".\n\nOz lives in Cliffside Park, New Jersey, with his wife Lisa. They have been married since 1985 and have four children. His eldest daughter is author and television host Daphne Oz.\n\nOz is fluent in English and Turkish. He is a holder of Turkish and American citizenship, having served in the Turkish Army to retain his Turkish citizenship.\n\nOz grew up in a mixed Muslim environment where his father's family practiced more traditional Islam, while his mother's family were more secular Muslims. Oz identifies himself as a Muslim and says that he has been influenced by the mysticism of Sufi Muslims from Central Turkey, as well as the ideas of Emanuel Swedenborg, the 18th century Swedish theologian, scientist, philosopher, revelator and mystic.\n\nOz is a practitioner of transcendental meditation. \"When I meditate, I go to that place where truth lives\", he said. \"I can see what reality really is, and it is so much easier to form good relationships then.\"\n\nIn August 2010, Oz was diagnosed with a pre-cancerous polyp in the colon during a routine colonoscopy which was performed as part of his show. Oz said that the procedure likely saved his life.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36494971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36494971", "title": "Mexican International Conference on Artificial Intelligence", "text": "Mexican International Conference on Artificial Intelligence\n\nThe Mexican International Conference on Artificial Intelligence (MICAI) is the name of an annual conference covering all areas of Artificial Intelligence (AI), held in Mexico. The first MICAI conference was held in 2000. The conference is attended every year by about two hundred of AI researchers and PhD students and 500−1000 local graduate students.\n\nMICAI is a high-level peer-reviewed international conference covering all areas of Artificial Intelligence. All editions of MICAI have been published in Springer Springer LNAI (N 1793, 2313, 2972, 3789, 4293, 4827, 5317, 5845, 6437–6438). Recent MICAI events (2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, and 2010) received over 300 submissions from over 40 countries each. The conference's scientific program includes keynote lectures, paper presentations, tutorials, panels, posters, and workshops. MICAI is organized by the Mexican Society for Artificial Intelligence (SMIA) in cooperation with various national institutions.\n\nTheir topics of interest include, but are not limited to:\nApplications of artificial intelligence,\nAutomated theorem proving,\nBelief revision,\nBioinformatics and Medical applications of artificial intelligence,\nCase-based reasoning,\nCommon-sense reasoning,\nComputer vision and image processing,\nConstraint programming,\nData mining,\nExpert systems and knowledge-based systems,\nFuzzy logic,\nGenetic algorithms,\nHybrid intelligent systems,\nIntelligent interfaces: multimedia, virtual reality,\nIntelligent organizations,\nIntelligent tutoring systems,\nKnowledge acquisition,\nKnowledge representation and knowledge management,\nLogic programming,\nMachine learning,\nModel-based reasoning,\nMultiagent systems and distributed artificial intelligence,\nNatural Language Processing,\nNeural Networks,\nNon-monotonic Reasoning,\nOntologies,\nPattern Recognition,\nPhilosophical and methodological issues of artificial intelligence,\nPlanning and scheduling,\nQualitative reasoning,\nRobotics,\nSpatial and remporal reasoning,\nUncertainty reasoning and probabilistic reasoning.\n\nIn the table below, the figures for the number of accepted papers and acceptance rate refer to the main proceedings volume and do not include supplemental proceedings volumes. The number of countries corresponds to submissions, not to accepted papers.\n\nThe following persons were honored by being selected by the organizers as keynote speakers or program chairs:\n\nThe authors of the following papers received the Best Paper Award:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12081629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12081629", "title": "Ministry of Education and Research (Norway)", "text": "Ministry of Education and Research (Norway)\n\nRoyal Norwegian Ministry of Education and Research (, lit. \"Ministry of Knowledge\") is a Norwegian government ministry responsible for education, research and kindergartens. The ministry was established in 1814, and is since 16 October 2013 led by Torbjørn Røe Isaksen (Conservative Party). \n\nThe department reports to the legislature (Stortinget). Traditionally this ministry was also responsible for church affairs, but this function was transferred to the Ministry of Culture and Church Affairs in 2002.\n\n\n\nThe following government agencies are subordinate to the ministry:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2034712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2034712", "title": "National Agrarian University (Nicaragua)", "text": "National Agrarian University (Nicaragua)\n\nThe National Agrarian University (Spanish: \"Universidad Nacional Agraria\", UNA) is a public university in Managua, Nicaragua.\n\nThe National Agrarian University has its roots in the National School of Agriculture (Spanish: \"Escuela Nacional de Agricultura\"), established on May 25, 1917. It was incorporated in 1986, by presidential decree, into the National Autonomous University of Nicaragua as the Institute of Agricultural Sciences (ISCA).\n\nIn 1990, the ISCA faculty at the National University became an independent entity; the National Agrarian University, with four faculties:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15306408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15306408", "title": "Northern Territory Certificate of Education", "text": "Northern Territory Certificate of Education\n\nThe Northern Territory Certificate of Education (NTCE) is the credential awarded to High School students who successfully complete senior high school level studies (years 11 and 12 or equivalent) in the Northern Territory, Australia.\n\nNTCE is normally taught in years 11 and 12 of senior high school in the Northern Territory. There are two levels: Stage 1, generally taught in Year 11, and Stage 2, taught in Year 12. At least 22 approved units must be studied.\n\nEach NTCE subject is organised into units, there is a list of subjects available to senior secondary students through Territory schools. Students can select up to 9 free choice units from Stage 1 and/or Stage 2 subject offerings. Each territory school can provide a list of senior subjects it offers.\n\nSecondary students work towards the Northern Territory Certificate of Education. The Northern Territory Board of Studies issues the certificate to students who meet the requirements of achievement during their studies.\n\nThe TER is calculated by the South Australian Tertiary Admissions Centre (SATAC) for students who successfully complete the Northern Territory Certificate of Education (NTCE) and fulfill certain other criteria to qualify for a TER.\n\nResults for the NTCE are forwarded to SATAC by the Northern Territory Board of Studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2550348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2550348", "title": "Paduka Seri Begawan Sultan Science College", "text": "Paduka Seri Begawan Sultan Science College\n\nPaduka Seri Begawan Sultan Science College (, abbreviated as \"MSPSBS\", or simply ) is a selective government secondary school and sixth form college in Bandar Seri Begawan, Brunei. It was founded in 1966 and is named after the 28th Sultan of Brunei, the Sultan Omar Ali Saifuddien III.\n\nThe school is located on Jalan Muara, close to the Brunei International Airport, commercial areas and two other educational institutions - Berakas Secondary School and the Sultan Saiful Rijal Campus of the Institute of Brunei Technical Education.\n\nPaduka Seri Begawan Sultan Science College began as (First Malay Secondary School) in the then Brunei Town in 1966. Upper secondary level (Form 4) was introduced in the school in 1967 while sixth form was introduced two years later. In 1969, the school moved from Brunei Town to an area along Jalan Muara.\n\nOn 23 September 1971 the school was officially renamed as (Paduka Seri Begawan Sultan Malay College). It was inaugurated by the late Sultan Omar Ali Saifuddien III, the 28th Sultan of Brunei and the father of the current Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah.\n\nBilingual education policy was implemented in 1974 and English medium classes were introduced. Two years later science education was started. The school was then again renamed as (Paduka Seri Begawan Sultan Malay College/Science School).\n\nIn 1985, the status of the school was upgraded to a college to acknowledge the inclusion of the sixth form and the school finally adopted the current name.\n\nThe students population of the school increased and the campus was renovated to accommodate its growing population. In 1994, the college moved to a new campus in the Rimba area on the outskirts of Bandar Seri Begawan. The old campus was renovated and on 2 April 2005 the college moved back to its old site and the campus in Rimba becomes Rimba Secondary School. Since 2007, the Form 1 (now known as Year 7) students were scheduled in the afternoon session due to a shortage of classrooms. In 2008, Year 8 students were also scheduled in the afternoon session. Year 7 students in 2008 were the first batch to try out the scheme of work for SPN21 (Sistem Pendidikan Negara Abad Ke-21).\n\nEntry to the college requires grade \"A\" in all five subjects (hence more commonly known as \"5 'A's\") of the Primary School Assessment ( or \"\"), the national examination taken at the end of Year 6 in primary school.\n\nThe school operates in a two sub-school structure. The secondary school caters for students in years 7 to 10, whilst the Sixth Form Centre caters for students in Lower and Upper Six. The school enrolls students only for Year 7 every year, prohibiting entries for other years. Only current enrolled Year 7 students are allowed to proceed to upper levels. The size of classes vary each year, depending on the entrance quotas.\n\nThe school uniform for boys consists of purple pants for years 7 to 10 and grey pants for sixth form students, white MIB shirt with embroidered school logo and a black songkok.\n\nGirls' uniforms are long white and lavender checkered skirt for years 7 to 10 and long grey skirt for sixth form students, white dress and a school embroidered square tudong.\n\nMembers of the student councils wear the same uniform with the exception of the colour of their pants and long skirts, which are navy blue.\n\nA different uniform applies for physical education classes.\n\nAside from academics, the school provides a wide range of extracurricular activities for its students. These include: Debate (Gavel Club), Da Vinci, Drama and Theatre, Environmental Club and more. This is along with Swimming, Basketball, Football, Netball, Badminton, Table Tennis, Track and Field, Golf, Rugby, Hiking and Hockey.\n\nThe school takes part in interschool competitions including Science, Mathematics, Computing, Debate, Hadrah and Nasyid competitions.\n\nThe school is also known for their notable Choir, Netball, Hockey, Track and Field team, winning several titles each year. In 2013, the unofficial school team, consisting of sixth form girls, MS Rebels came second in the First National Women's Rugby Tournament. During the early years in 1978-1980 the hockey teams and netball teams were very competitive and went to national competitions. This trend still continues today.\n\nThe school has also been known to be active in extracurricular activities including a drug awareness team. The school also has an Environmental Club to encourage students on natural awareness and for class research purposes.\n\nThe college has a house system for the purpose of the annual inter-house competitions in sports (track and field, football and netball) and arts (debate and drama). There are four houses and they are colour-coded, which consist of (yellow), (blue), (red) and (green); they are named after the Malay traditional military ranks which mean 'Commander', 'Admiral', 'General' and 'Warrior' respectively.\n\nSeveral members of Brunei's royal family attended the College including the Crown Prince of Brunei, Al-Muhtadee Billah, and his wife, Pengiran Anak Sarah, Prince Abdul Mateen, Princess Majeedah Nuruul Bolkiah, Princess Hafizah Sururul Bolkiah, Princess Azemah Ni'matul Bolkiah, and other members of Brunei's royal family attended the college including, Pengiran Muda ‘Abdul Qawi, Pengiran Muda Omar ‘Ali, Pengiran Muda ‘Abdul Muqtadir and Pengiran Anak Khalilah Khalilat ul-Bolkiah, sons and daughter of HRH Prince Mohammed Bolkiah,the Pengiran Anak Hajjah Siti Radhiah Bolkiah,daughter of HRH Princess Norain Bolkiah and Pengiran Anak Muhammad ‘Abdul Hafiz, Pengiran Anak Muhammad ‘Abdul Qayyum and Pengiran Anak Nurul-Amal Ni’matullah Athirah, and Pengiran Anak Nurul-Amal Munjiat ul-Athirah, sons and daughters of HRH Princess Amal Jefriah Bolkiah .\n\nThe Science College is also known to produce most of Brunei's prominent lawyers, doctors, educators, high ranking government officers, and armed personnel.\n\n"}
{"id": "34247247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34247247", "title": "Prague Student Summit", "text": "Prague Student Summit\n\nPrague Student Summit (PSS) is an educational project for high school and university students, which has more than 20 years of tradition in the Czech Republic. Through simulation of negotiations of international organizations, the participants have the opportunity to widen their knowledge in fields like international affairs, human rights, economy, cultural heritage and environment. At the same time, they can develop their rhetorical, presentation and argumentation skills. The Prague Student Summit gives the participants a unique opportunity to get a glimpse of the world of diplomacy and international relations. It is a project that endorses the idea of informal education, puts emphasis on the development of individual and this way complements the education in Czech schools.\n\nOver the years, the format of the Prague Student Summit developed considerably; today it offers simulations of 4 key organizations: UN, NATO, EU and OSCE. The participants in each model defend the interests of the states they represent and negotiate in the same way as real representatives of individual countries would. Within the agenda of individual bodies, the delegates deal with the current problems that the international community tackles.\n\nThe preparatory team that prepares the PSS every year consists of more than 60 university students, usually picked from the group of former participants of the Summit. \nThe organizer of the project is Association for International Affairs, a non-governmental and non-profit organization established in 1997 for the purpose of research and education in the field of international relations. \nThe General partner is The Kellner Family Foundation.\n\nIn the past, Prague Summit Student was taken under patronage by such personalities as Václav Havel, Karel Schwarzenberg, Petr Pithart, Madeleine Albright or Kateřina Valachová.\n\nThe year of the Prague Student Summit is divided into two main parts – the preparatory stage and the Final conference.\n\nDuring the academic year, five preparatory meetings take place at the University of Economics, Prague. Their purpose is to prepare the participants not only for the Final conference, but also to develop their expert knowledge and soft skills. Here, delegates impersonate the roles of diplomats, learn to discuss, take a stand and formulate an opinion, for which they are trying to get the support of their peers. An integral part of these preparatory meetings are lectures, panel discussions with interesting guests and interactive activities to develop the skills and abilities of the students.\nThe Final conference traditionally takes place in the spring. The Opening ceremony has been attended by guests from the project partners, diplomats, politicians and media representatives. In recent years, its venue has been, for example, the Prague Castle Ball Room, the Czernin Palace, the Ambassador Hotel or the Hilton Prague. The actual negotiations take place as usual in the Prague Congress Centre. Thereby, Students have a unique occasion to meet with guests such as Petr Pavel, Michal Horáček, Erik Tabery and many others who have already visited the Prague Student Summit.\n\nAmong other things, the project is enriched by a wide range of accompanying events that are held throughout the year. In the past, for instance, students attended a reception in the residence of the Mayor of Prague and traveled to Brussels, Vienna, Geneva and Strasbourg on a tour of the actual seats of the simulated organizations. Before the beginning of Final conference, participants also have the opportunity to visit the embassies of states which they represent in the project.\n\nWithin the XXII season of the PSS, a new project \"Prague Student Summit arrives to the regions\" is organized. The aim is to show the activities of the UN Security Council to students of 8th and 9th grades of primary schools in different regions.\n\nThe main goal of the project is to develop knowledge, skills and abilities of its participants; this applies not only to high-school and university students taking the roles of diplomats, but members of the PSS’s preparatory team as well. The project’s participant carries off new insights, perfects soft skills and forms critical and analytical thinking. The project is open to all applicants regardless their interests and career plans, for it focuses on gaining competences which can be utilized in everyday life just as in any other field of human activity.\n\nThe Model of the United Nations is a project with a long tradition. More than 300 high school students represent the UN member states in its structures. Along with the new skills and knowledge the model introduces students to fundamental ideas and goals of this largest international organisation, such as the will to solve global conflict with diplomacy and pursuit of a more just International Order. \nThe Model UN offers students an opportunity to experience the world of diplomacy through a simulated negotiation in seven bodies: United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Disarmament and International Security Committee (DISEC) Economic and Financial Affairs Council (ECOFIN), Human Rights Council (HRC), United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), United Nations Environment Assembly (UNEA).\n\nThe Model NATO simulates the negotiation of the principal political body of the Alliance - the North Atlantic Council. It is too intended for high school students although the negotiation is run in English. That brings a new dimension to the educational activities and represents an additional challenge for delegates and the opportunity to improve their language skills. Student in a role of the member state diplomat will be occupied with the key security issues and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization´s global standing.\n\nThe Model of the European Union is designed for university students who as ministers of member states simulate sessions of the key institution in the EU structure, the Council of the European Union. Model´s goal is to show the operation of the Council as authentically as possible by updating its agenda with current topics. Besides negotiating, the programme is constituted by discussions and seminars with prominent Czech and foreign experts, including diplomats and politicians accustomed to the EU surroundings.\n\nThe Model of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe is representing this year´s international model of the Prague Student Summit. Its negotiation is naturally held in English and its participants are students from all over Europe. The admission procedure will begin in January 2017.\n\nThe Chronicle, the official newspapers of Prague Student Summit, are inseparably linked to the project from its very beginning. Every year, the first edition of the Chronicle is published at the time of start of the admission process, and following editions are available at every preparatory meeting and throughout the conference days. Their electronic version is also available for download at the PSS’s website. Archive.\nThe Chronicle brings not only detailed coverage of activities of all Models and bodies, organizational information and information about accompanying events, but interviews with important personalities, too. Through expert columns, the newspapers provide participants with insights into the world of politics, law, economics and recent events on the field of international relations.\nThe editorial staff consists mainly of the project’s preparatory team members, but offers space to the participants as well.\n\nThe project is prepared by students for students, with former participants usually becoming the organizers. This unique feature ensures the continuity as well as constant inflow of new ideas and approaches.\nThe project’s organizer is a non-governmental non-profit organization Association for International Affairs (AMO), which was founded in 1997 with an aim of research and education on the field of international relations. This leading Czech think-tank is not linked to any political party or ideology. AMO provides space for a development of education, understanding and tolerance among people and cultures and intermediates a dialogue among representatives of broad public, academic sphere, civil sector, politics and business. With its activities, it consistently supports a pro-active approach of citizens of the Czech Republic towards international politics and provides information necessary for forming one’s own opinion on both domestic and foreign events.\n"}
{"id": "41095847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41095847", "title": "Raj Bhala", "text": "Raj Bhala\n\nRakesh \"Raj\" Kumar Bhala (born 1962 in Toronto, Ontario, Canada) is an Indian-American lawyer and professor, prominent in the fields of International Trade Law and Islamic Law (Sharia). He is the inaugural Leo S. Brenneisen Distinguished Professor of Law, before which he was the Rice Distinguished Professor (2003–17), at the University of Kansas School of Law, and has served as its Associate Dean for International and Comparative Law. Bhala is the author of 74 articles and 13 books. BloombergQuint (India) publishes his monthly column on international law and economics, \"On Point,\" the first one of which appeared in January 2017, \"The Trump Raj Begins … But How Will It Endure?\"\n\nIn international trade law, Bhala's \"Stare Decisis Trilogy\" was the first to highlight that, in practice, the doctrine of precedent operates in multilateral trade adjudication.\n\nHis \"Doha Round Trilogy\" pointed out that the detailed negotiating texts of the round had deviated from a key original purpose of the round: re-writing trade rules to help alleviate poverty, and thereby reduce the vulnerability of marginalized populations to Islamist extremist ideologies.\n\nBhala's articles appear in general and international law reviews, and five are in The International Lawyer, the award-winning, peer-reviewed journal of the American Bar Association (ABA) Section of International Law, which circulates worldwide to over 15,000 readers. The Arizona Journal of International and Comparative Law publishes the annual WTO Case Review, which Bhala co-authored since its inception in 2000.\n\nBhala authored \"Modern GATT Law\", the first major treatise on the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade since the 1970 publication of \"The Law of the GATT\" (Kenneth W. Dam) and 1969 publication of \"World Trade and the Law of GATT\" (John H. Jackson). The Appellate Body of the World Trade Organization (WTO) cited the 1st edition of the treatise, and its 2nd edition received scholarly and media attention.\n\nHe also has authored the textbook \"International Trade Law\", which has been cited by United States federal courts, and portions of this text were translated into Vietnamese. The latest edition, with the sub-title \"An Interdisciplinary, Non-Western Textbook,\" is in two volumes, has been endorsed by 19 trade experts in 10 different countries, including Columbia University Professor Jagdish Bhagwati and Texas A&M President Michael Young, and been profiled in the media. Bhala's monograph \"Trade, Development, and Social Justice\", applies Catholic social justice theory to special and differential treatment rules of the multilateral trading system.\n\nIn Islamic Law, Bhala became the first non-Muslim American law professor to produce a textbook on the subject designed for English-speaking law students, teachers, and practitioners (\"Understanding Islamic Law (Shari'a)\"). He has spoken out against state anti-Sharia legislation, arguing it is unfair and bad for business. The textbook has received media attention, such as after the November 2015 Paris attacks, and has been reviewed as a \"brilliant and much-needed resource\". It is in its second edition.\n\nSome of Bhala's research is at the intersection of International Trade and Islamic Law. One article analyzes the tariff schedules of every Islamic country in the world, and points out few such countries use the GATT Article XX(a) public morality exception to ban importation of products, such as alcohol and pork, the consumption of which the Sharia forbids. Like non-Islamic countries, most of them impose tariffs on these products, possibly for moral, secularist, legal, or economic reasons.\n\nOther areas of Bhala's research are the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) and Indian trade law and policy. His book \"TPP Objectively\" examines the legal, economic, and national security aspects of TPP, arguing the deal merits a grade of \"B,\" and calls for stronger provisions to benefit women and their extension to the LGBTQ community. Via scholarly presentations and media appearances in India, he urged India to consider joining TPP. Speaking in Riyadh at the Council of Saudi Chambers of Commerce and Harvard Alumni Association of Saudi Arabia (HASA) in April 2015, he discussed reorienting Saudi trade law and policy toward the Asia-Pacific region. He addressed the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) Law Association of Malaysia, and justices from the Supreme and High Courts of Malaysia, in April 2016 on the topic of \"Risks and Opportunities with the Trans-Pacific Partnership for Malaysia\".\n\nHe delivered a major address at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law in February 2017, \"The Legal, Economic, and National Security Dimensions of the Trans Pacific Partnership\". He gave a Webinar for the Conference Board of Canada in August 2017, \"An American Perspective on NAFTA's Past, Present, and Future\".\n\nBhala received his undergraduate degree (AB) in economics (summa cum laude) at Duke University, Durham, North Carolina in 1984, and was inducted into \"Phi Beta Kappa\".\n\nWhile a Marshall Scholar (1984–86) in the United Kingdom, Bhala earned a master's degree (MSc) in economics from the London School of Economics in 1985 and another master's degree (MSc) in management (industrial relations) from Oxford University the year after, with a thesis on internal labor markets.\n\nBhala obtained a law degree (JD) (cum laude) from Harvard Law School in 1989, where as a third-year student he published his first book, \"Perspectives on Risk-Based Capital\".\n\nUpon graduation from Harvard Law School, Bhala practiced as an attorney with the legal department of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (1989–93), specializing in three areas: payment systems, foreign exchange, and enforcement. The New York Fed twice (November 1990 and December 1992) awarded him its President's Award for Excellence, in part for his work as a United States delegate to the United Nations Convention on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) in drafting the 1992 Model Law on International Credit Transfers, for which he also received a Letter of Commendation from the U.S. State Department (September 1991). Subsequently, he wrote books in each of these three areas. Bhala is a Senior Advisor to Dentons US LLP, where he specializes in international trade law and related matters. He has served as an International Legal Consultant for The Al Ammari Law Firm, in association with Blake, Cassels & Graydon LLP in Bahrain and Saudi Arabia.\n\nHe then held his first academic post (1993–98) at the Marshal-Wythe School of Law at William & Mary. At his second post (1998-2003) at the George Washington University School of Law in Washington, D.C., Bhala held the Patricia Roberts Harris Research Professorship.\n\nBhala joined the Kansas University law faculty in 2003, where he teaches courses in international trade law, advanced international trade law, and Islamic law, to United States Special Operations Forces. For his teaching and advising there, he received the Kemper Teaching Award (2008), George and Eleanor Woodyard International Educator Award (2011), and Moreau Award (2012 and 2015) \nBhala also serves as an instructor at the Command and General Staff College, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, where he teaches Islamic Law. He has been a Visiting Professor at the law schools of Washington University in Saint Louis (2014), University of Michigan (1999), and Duke University (1996). Outside the United States, he has taught courses at the Heidelberg Centre for Latin America (Santiago, Chile, 2012), World Trade Institute (Berne, Switzerland, 2003 and 2004), LaTrobe University (Melbourne, Australia, 2003), University of Auckland (2003), University of London (1997), and been a Research Fellow at the University of Hong Kong (2009) and Visiting Scholar at the Bank of Japan (Tokyo, 1999), and lectured widely in India (2004, 2012, and 2014). Bhala negotiated Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) for the University of Kansas School of Law with foreign law faculties in India. In March 2014, CNBC TV-18 in India interviewed Bhala for his views on Indo-U.S. trade disputes. Following resolution of the dispute over public stockpiling of food for security, the London-based Oval Observer Foundation interviewed him about Indian trade policy and the future of free trade agreements (FTAs) and the World Trade Organization (WTO).\n\nIn January 2014, Bhala was one of over 80 Distinguished Professors in Kansas to sign a letter calling for suspension and ultimate repeal of the Social Media Policy adopted the previous month by the state's Board of Regents. The letter was published simultaneously in The Lawrence Journal World, The Manhattan Mercury, and The Topeka Capital Journal. The Policy attracted nationwide condemnation, including from the American Association of University Professors, (AAUP) and jointly from the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE), and National Coalition Against Censorship (NCAP). Bhala also expressed his concern about the scope of the Policy on television. In April 2014, along with 80 other Distinguished Professors from across Kansas, he signed a petition in favor of a revised Policy. The revision was published widely, and widely supported, but, the Regents essentially rejected it, retaining the controversial elements concerning speech that undermines harmony at, or efficient operation of, a university.\n\nIn October 2014, Bhala appeared on the TV comedy show, The Not So Late Show.\nIn December 2014, he commented in a TV interview that the release of the U.S. Senate report on enhanced interrogation techniques (torture) by the CIA showed not only a disconnect between the myth and reality of American support for human rights, but also (ultimately) the strength of America and its commitment to the rule of law. In a New Zealand radio interview, Bhala spoke about the meaning of \"enhanced interrogation techniques,\" and the lack of any justification for torture.\n\nIn December 2015, Bhala was one of 70 Kansas University Distinguished Professors to sign a letter of protest against a change in state law allowing the carrying of concealed weapons on campus. In April, 2016, he was one of 64 Distinguished Professors to sign a second such letter. Bhala, along with his wife, Dr. Kara Tan Bhala, were featured by journalist Arun Venugopal in a May 2017 National Public Radio (NPR) New York (WNYC, 93.3 FM) broadcast, \"Whose Kansas is it Anyway?,\" explaining the negative effects of the concealed carry law.\n\nBhala was selected by the New Zealand Legal Research Foundation (LRF) as its 2017 Visiting Scholar.\n\n\nBhala is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations (United States), and a life member of the Indian Society of International Law. He is also a member of the Royal Society for Asian Affairs (England), All India Law Teachers Congress (India), American Law Institute, Fellowship of Catholic Scholars, International Bar Association, and Inter-Pacific Bar Association.\n\nBhala serves on the Editorial Advisory Board of Carolina Academic Press, where he also is the general editor for its studies on globalization and society. Bhala has served on the Publishing Advisory Board of LexisNexis.\n\nBhala is on the editorial boards of international law journals, including the Indian Journal of International Economic Law, the University of Bologna Law Review, and Manchester Journal of International Economic Law (MJIEL), and is a Chief Book Review Editor for the MJIEL.\n\nHe is a member of the International Council of the Harris Institute for World Law at Washington University in Saint Louis.\n"}
{"id": "3694282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3694282", "title": "Red Hat Certification Program", "text": "Red Hat Certification Program\n\nRed Hat company offers different level of certification programs. Certifications can be validated through Red Hat webpage, and expire after 3 years.\n\nRHCSA is an entry-level certification that focuses on actual competencies at system administration, including installation and configuration of a Red Hat Enterprise Linux system and attach it to a live network running network services.\n\nTo achieve the RHCSA certification the student must pass \"EX200\", a 2.5-hour hands-on lab exam. The minimum passing score for the exam is 210 out of 300 possible points (70%). There is no prerequisite for the exam, but Red Hat recommends preparing for the exam by taking courses in Red Hat System Administration (RH124 or RH134) if one does not have previous experience.\n\nRHCSA was launched in 2002 as Red Hat Certified Technician (RHCT). As of July 2009 there were 30,000 RHCTs. In November 2010 it was renamed to RHCSA.\n\nSelf-titled \"the flagship\" certification, RHCE is a mid- to advanced-level certification that builds on topics covered in the RHCSA certification to include more advanced topics such as security and installing common enterprise networking (IP) services.\nTo achieve the RHCE certification, the student must pass the RHCSA exam, \"EX200\", and in addition \"EX300\", a 3.5-hour hands-on lab exam. Red Hat recommends preparing for the exam by taking courses in Linux essentials (RH124), Linux administration (RH134), and Linux networking and security (RH254) if one does not have previous experience. Previous real-world experience is also advised.\n\nRHCE was the first Red Hat certificate launched, in 1999. As of July 2009 there were 40,000 RHCEs. It was named the Hottest Certification for 2006 by CertCities.com.\n\nSelf-titled \"the capstone certificate\", RHCA is the most complete certificate in the program, adding an enterprise-level focus.\n\nThere are concentrations inside the RHCA on which a candidate may choose to focus, however choosing to do so is not required. The focuses are:\n\n\nRHCA was launched in 2005.\n\nRHCVA is a certification that focuses on Virtualization administration.\nTo achieve the RHCVA certification the student must pass \"EX318\", a 3-hour hands-on lab exam. There is no prerequisite for the exam, but Red Hat recommends preparing for the exam by taking the respective course, RH318, and by obtaining the RHCSA certification described above. The exam also requires knowledge in using and installing Microsoft Windows operating systems.\n\nRHCVA was Launched in November 2009.\n\nJBCAA is a certification that focuses on managing the JBoss Enterprise Application Platform.\nTo achieve the JBCAA certification the student must pass \"EX248\", a four-hour hands-on lab exam. There is no prerequisite for the exam, but Red Hat recommends preparing for the exam by taking course JB248, a four-day course in JBoss application administration.\n\nJBCAA was Launched in September 2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "318776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=318776", "title": "Science fair", "text": "Science fair\n\nA science fair experiment is generally a competition where contestants present their science project, results in the form of a report, display board, and/or models that they have created. Science fairs allow students in elementary, middle and high schools to compete in science and/or technology activities. The main motive of a science fair is for students to answer a question or task, not from a textbook but found out themselves by conducting a range of experiments and ongoing research in the short amount of time allocated to them. In order that the questions or tasks spark a true interest in the student they should be able to have an interesting, eye catching project often portrayed on a display board.\n\nScience fairs also provide a mechanism for students with intense interest in the sciences to be paired with mentors from nearby colleges and universities, so that they can access to instruction and equipment that the local schools can not provide.\n\nScience fairs date back to 1942, when William Emerson Ritter and Edward W. Scripps created \"The Science Talent Search\" for high school students. \nThe first American National Science Fair was won by Alan J. Fletcher when he was 18, winning with a display on the laws of motion.\nIn the United States, science fairs became popular in the early 1950s. Interest in the sciences was at a new high after the world witnessed the use of the first two atomic weapons and the dawn of television. As the decade progressed, science stories in the news, such as Jonas Salk's vaccine for polio and the launch of Sputnik, brought science fiction to reality and attracted increasing numbers of students to fairs.\n\nMost countries have regional science fairs in which interested students can freely participate. Winners of these regional fairs send students to national fairs such as ISEF and CWSF. National science fairs typically send winners to international fairs such as ISEF (which is a national and an international science fair) and EUCYS.\n\n• Coke & Mento geyser \n\n• Baking Soda & Vinegar Volcano\n\n• Glider, Kite or Parachute\n\n• Battery Powered Car\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44404174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44404174", "title": "Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas", "text": "Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas\n\nShiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas (en: Trust for the Uplift of Education and Culture) is a Hindu right-wing educational activist organisation founded by Dinanath Batra, a Pracharak of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and the former director of its education wing Vidya Bharati. The Nyas, founded on 18 May 2007, works in collaboration with a sister organisation \"Shiksha Bachao Andolan Samiti\" (Campaign Committee for Saving Education), which was also founded by Batra. The stated objective of the Nyas is to find and establish alternatives to the present education system in India by changing its \"syllabus, system, methods and policy\" in an effort to \"Indianise\" it, which in effect means moulding it in a Hindu nationalist framework (popularly called \"saffronisation\").\n\nThe key members of the Nyas include, in addition to Batra:\n\nBatra has said in July 2014 that the Nyas is focusing on seven subjects:\nOn the matter of autonomy, the Nyas demands that there should be an all-India autonomous (non-governmental) education commission. It has proposed a commission of 21 members called \"Bharatiya Shiksha Niti Ayog\" (Indian Commission for Educational Principles) and already recruited 9 members, with the former director of CBSE Badrinath Khandelwal among them.\nThe Commission is mandated to \"suggest corrective steps\" to \"indianise\" the education system, according to a leader of the RSS. Observers believe that the Commission will become a rather powerful body due to the backing of the RSS, somewhat akin to the \"National Advisory Council\" of the Congress Party chairperson Sonia Gandhi, which dictated terms to the United Progressive Alliance government.\n\nOn 7 August 2014, India Today reported that Batra had met the Human Resource Development minister Smriti Irani and she promised him that the Government would soon constitute a National Education Commission. Batra had also asked Irani to intervene when the National Curriculum Framework is changed in 2015 so that the NCERT does not continue with what he regards as a \"flawed curriculum.\" The same magazine reported in November 2014 that the minister seems to be caught between the pressure from the RSS groups and the need to deliver results, being unable to take decisions as a result.\n\nIt has been reported that \"Shiksha Bachao Andolan Samiti\", the sister organisation of the Nyas, will be convening a national conference in December 2014, with 200 academics and experts, to review the recommendations of the previous panels on education and identify deficiencies in the current system. Based on these deliberations the organisation will submit a report to the Human Resource Development ministry to guide the new education policy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1873499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1873499", "title": "Southwestern College (Kansas)", "text": "Southwestern College (Kansas)\n\nSouthwestern College is a four-year private higher educational institution affiliated with the United Methodist Church located in Winfield, Kansas, United States. It was founded in 1885 as Southwest Kansas Conference College and graduated its first class of three in June 1889. The name of the school was changed to its current form in 1909.\n\nThe first step towards the establishment of Southwest Kansas Conference College took place in the spring of 1884 when land was platted for the purpose east of Wichita, Kansas. With construction slated for the future, in October of that same year the principals behind the project decided to acquire a substantial residence to serve as a temporary building for the school. The Wichita home of a certain Dr. Crokey, located on the corner of Central and Topeka Avenues, was obtained for this purpose at a cost of $4,000. Initial plans called for establishment of a school with academic departments in the fields of business, music, and art.\n\nThe school was incorporated in Topeka on October 9, 1884, headed by a nine-member board of directors. No courses were conducted during the 1884-85 school year, however, and the project remained dormant.\n\nThe Southwest Kansas Conference of the Methodist Church affirmed its connection with the college project at its April 1885 annual meeting at El Dorado. There the regional division of the church formally decided to establish a college within the district, selecting a committee of 7 headed by Rev. N.S. Buckner to find a suitable permanent location. Conditions established by the committee included the availability of at least 20 acres of land and community donations of at least $15,000 towards completion of the project.\n\nThe committee's decision on siting was initially slated for a meeting to be held in Wichita on May 12, 1885. This proved to be a preliminary gathering, however, at which guidelines for bids were established and interested communities made their initial presentations. Communities making initial appeals for the siting of the college included El Dorado, Harper, Newton, Peabody, Winfield, and Wichita. The towns of Hutchinson and Wellington also later made proposals. A tour of visitation by Buckner's siting committee was planned.\n\nFormal decision was rendered at a meeting held in Wichita on June 9, 1885, at which the bid of Winfield was accepted. Winfield in its winning bid pledged $40,000 towards college construction, 20 acres of land for the campus, additional payments of $2,000 a year for ten years, and an additional 40 acres of land. The selection of Winfield was met the next day with Cowley County approving the issuance of $100,000 in bonds on behalf of the Denver, Memphis & Atlantic Railway for the expeditious construction of a new railway line to the town.\n\nConstruction of the main college building began in the fall of 1885 upon a plan designed by W.A. Ritchie, with the 4-story building anticipated to be ready for occupancy September 1, 1886, in time for the 1886-87 academic year. Dormitory cottages were also to be built. Total cost of construction was projected at $60,000. Upon completion the building was touted in the local press as \"one of the finest buildings in the state.\"\n\nIn April 1886, Dr. John E. Earp, formerly head of Indiana Asbury University, a Methodist-affiliated college in Greencastle, Indiana, was tapped by the board of trustees as the first President of the Southwest Kansas Conference College.\n\nSouthwest Kansas Conference College graduated its first class of 3 students on June 3, 1889.\n\nIn 1909 the name of Southwest Kansas Conference College was changed to Southwestern College.\n\nThe main campus is a laptop learning community, with laptop computers provided to all incoming students. An emphasis on service learning has led to nationally recognized programs in leadership, discipleship, and sustainability (green issues). In addition to bachelor's degrees, several master's programs give undergraduate students the option of completing a graduate degree. Its doctoral degree in education started during the summer of 2012.\n\nSouthwestern College's professional studies programs focus on degree completion for working adults. Six professional studies sites in three states allow students to earn their bachelor's degrees and selected master's programs in either a traditional classroom setting or online. The ground locations are in Wichita, McConnell AFB, Fort Riley, Kansas and Midwest City, Oklahoma.\n\nThe school owns and operates radio station KSWC-LP.\n\nSouthwestern College is accredited by The Higher Learning Commission and is a member of the North Central Association. It is further accredited by the University Senate of the United Methodist Church and other accrediting bodies for individual majors.\n\nSouthwestern College teams are nicknamed as the Moundbuilders. The university is a member of the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), primarily competing in the Kansas Collegiate Athletic Conference (KCAC). Men's sports include basketball, cross country, football, golf, soccer, tennis and track & field; while women's sports include basketball, cheerleading, cross country, dance, golf, soccer, softball, tennis, track & field and volleyball.\n\nThe Men's Track Team has won 30 consecutive conference championships, while the women have won 16 straight. Men's Cross Country has won 30 consecutive conference championships, while the women have won 4 straight and 11 of the last 14, with the school garnering 134 conference championships in nine different sports since 1960. The track teams are coached by Jim Helmer and Mike Kirkland. The school has had over 160 All-American scholar-athletes since 1980.\n\nSouthwestern College football players have gone on to successful coaching careers, including Jerry Kill, a former head football coach at the University of Minnesota.\n\nThe college's nickname, \"Moundbuilders,\" (frequently shortened to just \"Builders\") has inspired the creation of a large pile of rocks on the college campus, called \"The Mound.\" At the beginning of each school year, the \"Moundbuilding Ceremony\" allows students, faculty, clubs, and guests of Southwestern College to place a rock on the Mound. Participants are invited to decorate their rocks with paint, and some are decorated quite creatively. Although rocks are never removed from the Mound, the Mound itself was moved from the upper campus to the lower campus in the 1970s when Darbeth Fine Arts Building was built on the original site of the Mound. A major renovation in 2006 added a plaza area around the Mound with commemorative stones, benches, and landscaping.\n\nThe nickname Moundbuilders originated in 1910 when students wanted to be called something other than \"Preachers\" or \"Methodists.\" Editorialists toyed with various suggestions based on the fact that Southwestern students lived on \"the hill.\" The name \"Cliff-dwellers\" was suggested but was ultimately scrapped for \"Moundbuilders\" after student Harry Hart wrote that \"anybody could just dwell there, but 'builders' shows action.\" The Moundbuilding ceremony was instituted in 1927 by Dean Leroy Allen who said, \"Nobody but Moundbuilders can build mounds. So no other college has now, or ever is likely to have such a custom.\"\n\nThe Order of the Mound is the official Honor Society for Southwestern College graduates. Although the society was formally organized in 1917, membership in the Order of the Mound includes graduates from 1889 onward. In 1927, a process was established to induct qualified graduates from years prior to 1917.\n\nCurrently, to qualify for induction, students must be in the top 10% of all graduates who have completed at least 60 graded hours or more at Southwestern College.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2870826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2870826", "title": "The Review of Communication", "text": "The Review of Communication\n\nThe Review of Communication is a peer-reviewed online academic journal which is published by Routledge for the National Communication Association. It publishes scholarship that advances the discipline of communication through the study of major themes that cross the disciplinary sub-fields. The current editor is Pat J. Gehrke.\n\n"}
{"id": "47266323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47266323", "title": "University Entrance Examination", "text": "University Entrance Examination\n\nThe University Entrance Examination () is an academic examination administered to 10th standard students at all schools in Myanmar, including government schools, comprehensive schools and private boarding schools, for students seeking university admission. The test is administered at least 3 weeks after the Basic Education High School Examination. Test results determine the eligibility of high school students to pursue higher education, and their entrance into select universities and majors.\n\nThe current college admission system is being revised by the Ministry of Education. Beginning in the 2015-16 academic year, students will be able to sit for entrance exams at the universities of their choice. Further, students will be allowed to retake such exams.\n\nThe University Entrance Examination is administered by the Board of Examinations.\n\nEach year, there are eleven question papers of equal format for Burmese states and regions. The system of eleven test papers per year was adopted in 2001-02 to prevent the leakage of some questions prior to the exam administration.\n\nIn Yangon, sales of alcohol are banned during matriculation exam administration.\n\nStudents from government high schools and comprehensive schools can register for the examinations internally by the guidelines of school teachers, although students from private boarding schools have to register for the exams externally themselves. Students who attend international English-language schools or other private schools are not eligible to sit for the matriculation exam, nor are they allowed to enroll in Burmese universities.\n\nOver 500,000 students take part in these exams annually, which take place in mid-March each year (for 9 days), with results released at testing sites throughout the country in June.\n\nStudents are administered a combination of 6 tests depending on their track: arts, science, and arts and sciences. The subjects offered are Myanmar, English, Mathematics, Chemistry, Physics, Biology, History, Geography, Economics, and Optional Myanmar. Each subject examination is 3 hours long.\n\nHigh marks in a subject garner a distinction known as \"gondu\" (). Students who achieve distinctions in five or more subjects are generally guaranteed placement in one of Myanmar's medical universities, the most selective of universities. In recent years, the combined score of students who receive 5 subject distinctions has been above 500 out of 600. The scores of students at remote testing sites are announced via shortwave radio. In 2009, 30% of students who participated received passing marks. The pass rate in 2015 was 37.6%, a 7% increase from 2014. In 2018, the national pass rate was 32.82%; the highest pass rate was in Mandalay Region (38.17%), while the lowest pass rate was in Chin State.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6262310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6262310", "title": "Urban Alliance Foundation", "text": "Urban Alliance Foundation\n\nThe Urban Alliance Foundation (UA) is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit operating in Washington, DC. The group works to train youth from under-resourced areas for work and self-sufficiency, through paid internships, formal training, case management, and mentoring. Urban Alliance was founded in Washington DC in 1996 and has worked with more than 15,000 low-income D.C., Chicago and Baltimore youth.\n\nUA opened in 1996, after a student attending Anacostia Senior High School expressed a need for positive job experiences to UA founder Andrew Plepler. Plepler, at that time an Attorney for the U.S. Department of Justice, was visiting the school and asked the students what they needed to succeed. Plepler, with the support of Mary and Jeff Zients, placed that student and five of his friends at internships throughout the city during 1996. The program was developed according to the practices implemented by the National Youth Employment Coalition. Specifically, the program aims to establish long-term mentoring relationships with adults, to increases youths’ personal, academic, and financial independence, and support them to meet their increased responsibilities through workshops on time management, financial literacy, and conflict resolution. The group documents students’ ongoing progress by tracking each internship on a weekly basis and collecting tri-annual ratings from the mentors.\n\nThe program continued to work with students at Anacostia Senior High School for the next eight years, providing them with youth development and employment opportunities. In 2005, UA expanded to recruit students at ten other District of Columbia Public Schools (DCPS) targeting DCPS seniors who were eligible for a half- day class schedule. Monday through Thursday, these students attend school in the morning, work at their job sites in the afternoon and on Fridays attend UA's professional development workshops.\n\nIn 2004, UA began working with the World Bank's summer internship program. As of 2012, that partnership has resulted in over 170 students finding placement at the World Bank. Students work thirty-two hour weeks as well as attend weekly internship trainings developed by the Bank. UA also works with organizations such as Bank of America, Marriott, and Morgan Stanley.\n\nIn 2008, Urban Alliance expanded to work in the Baltimore City Public Schools. The organization currently works with nine Baltimore City high schools.\nIn 2012, Urban Alliance expanded to the City of Chicago. The organization recruited students from schools such as Curie High School, Dunbar Vocational High School, and Crane Technical Preparatory High School. During the 2012-2013 school year, 71 students from six Chicago public high schools participated. In 2013-2014, the program planned to include 150 students across 13 schools.\n\nAlso in 2012, UA announced a partnership with Venture Philanthropy Partners (VPP). The partnership focused on expanding the foundation's efforts into the suburban areas of Northern Virginia to work with 200 high school students and 70 alumni of the program. UA also works with VPP's youthCONNECT initiative.\n\n"}
{"id": "4971122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4971122", "title": "Watkinson School", "text": "Watkinson School\n\nWatkinson School is a private co-educational independent day school in Hartford, Connecticut, USA. Watkinson is situated on Bloomfield Avenue adjacent to the University of Hartford. It serves students from 6th through 12th grade. Watkinson also offers a postgraduate option, called The Academy at Watkinson, which allows students who have just graduated from high school to spend an additional year taking courses at Watkinson as well as the University of Hartford. Watkinson is the oldest independent school located within the city limits of Hartford.\n\nCurrently, Watkinson enrolls 240 students who come from 37 towns all around the Greater Hartford and Pioneer Valley area.\n\nWatkinson is a founding member of the Coalition of Essential Schools. It is one of only five schools to be named a Lead School for this coalition.\n\nThe organization that became the Watkinson School has its origins in a major bequest of businessman and philanthropist David Watkinson (1778-1857), whose will included provisions for establishing a school for troubled boys. Originally led by noted Hartford educator Henry Barnard, school trustees built Watkinson's bequest to over $200,000 by 1880. In that year, a farm was purchased on Park Street, and the institution was opened as a school and working farm known as the Watkinson Juvenile Asylum and Farm School. In 1892, under the leadership of Rev. Francis Goodwin, the school leased land on the Prosser Farm at the corner of Albany Street and Bloomfield Avenue, which had been purchased by Goodwin for the Handicraft School, an organization whose leadership was identical to that of the Watkinson School. The Watkinson School facilities were built on this land at the northern end, while those of the Handicraft School were located in its south. The land occupied by the Watkinson School was formally transferred to the school in 1949. The school formally adopted the name \"Watkinson School\" in 1923.\n\nThe school campus is located at 140, 180, and 190 Bloomfield Avenue in Hartford and West Hartford. The complex consists of nine buildings on about , most of which (including all of the buildings) is in Hartford. Feringa Hall is the oldest academic building on the campus, built in 1894-5 to a Queen Anne design attributed to Francis Goodwin. Residence houses, originally for the headmaster and his assistant, date to the early 20th century. Frances Goodwin Hall is a two-story brick classroom building with attached gymnasium, built in 1924. The campus was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1995.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37562983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37562983", "title": "Wild: From Lost to Found on the Pacific Crest Trail", "text": "Wild: From Lost to Found on the Pacific Crest Trail\n\nWild: From Lost to Found on the Pacific Crest Trail is a 2012 memoir by American author Cheryl Strayed, describing her 1,100-mile hike on the Pacific Crest Trail in 1995 as a journey of self-discovery. The book reached No. 1 on the \"New York Times\" Best Seller list, and was the first selection for Oprah's Book Club 2.0.\n\nThe film adaptation was released in December 2014.\n\n\"Wild\" is Cheryl Strayed's memoir of her 1,100 mile solo hike along the Pacific Crest Trail, beginning in the Mojave Desert and hiking through California and Oregon to the Bridge of the Gods into Washington. The book also contains flashbacks to prior life occurrences that led her to begin her journey.\n\nAt age 22, Strayed had been devastated by the lung cancer death of her mother at 45. Her stepfather disengaged from Strayed's family, and her brother and sister remained distant. Strayed and her husband divorced, and eventually a lover convinced her to start using heroin.\n\nSeeking self-discovery and resolution of her enduring grief and personal challenges, at age 26, Strayed set out on her journey, alone and with no prior hiking experience. \"Wild\" intertwines the stories of Strayed's life before and during the journey, describing her physical challenges and spiritual realizations while on the trail.\n\n\nBy the time the book was published, actress Reese Witherspoon's film company, Pacific Standard, had optioned \"Wild\" for film rights. Witherspoon portrayed Strayed in the 2014 film \"Wild,\" which was written by Nick Hornby and directed by Jean-Marc Vallée.\n\nIn \"The New York Times,\" Dwight Garner wrote that \"the lack of ease in (Strayed's) life made her fierce and funny; she hammers home her hard-won sentences like a box of nails,\" adding that the memoir reflected a \"too infrequent sight: that of a writer finding her voice, and sustaining it, right in front of your eyes.\" \n\nIn \"The New York Times,\" Dani Shapiro called the book \"spectacular... at once a breathtaking adventure tale and a profound meditation on the nature of grief and survival, ... both a literary and human triumph.\" Shapiro wrote that unlike many parallel-arc stories, Strayed's two parallel narratives—the challenging hike itself and the difficult life events that preceded it—are delivered in perfect balance. According to Shapiro, the memoir did not overdramatize its events, but followed a \"powerful, yet understated, imperative to understand (their) meaning,\" allowing readers \"to feel how her actions and her internal struggles intertwine, and appreciate the lessons she finds embedded in the natural world.\"\n\nIn \"Slate,\" Melanie Rehak began by contrasting \"Wild\" with the 2006 memoir \"Eat, Pray, Love\"—whose story was \"pleasant, mild, romantic, and completely lacking urgency\" and in which everything would work out. In contrast, \"Wild\" was said to be \"crammed with... passages of vicious discomfort\" and was carried by a voice that was \"fierce, billowing with energy, precise.\" Crediting the years that passed between Strayed's 1995 hike and her 2012 memoir, Rehak wrote that Strayed had \"fine control\" over \"unfathomable, enormous experiences\" and never wrote \"from a place of desperation in the kind of semi-edited purge state that has marred so many true stories.\"\n\nBy the time of the film \"Wild's\" release, in December 2014 A.O. Scott wrote in \"The New York Times\" that Strayed's memoir was \"already a classic of wilderness writing and modern feminism.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "40277510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40277510", "title": "Witherby Memorial Lecture", "text": "Witherby Memorial Lecture\n\nThe Witherby Memorial Lecture is an academic lectureship awarded by the British Trust for Ornithology annually since 1968.\n"}
{"id": "50445434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50445434", "title": "Women's education in Iran", "text": "Women's education in Iran\n\nFormal education for women in Iran began in 1907 with the establishment of the first primary school for girls. Education held an important role in Iranian society, especially as the nation began a period of modernization under the authority of Reza Shah Pahlavi in the early 20th century when the number of women's schools began to grow. By mid-century, legal reforms granting women the right to vote and raising the minimum age for marriage offered more opportunities for women to pursue education outside the home. After periods of imposed restrictions, women's educational attainment continued its rise through the Islamification of education following the Iranian Revolution of 1979, peaking in the years following radical changes in the curriculum and composition of classrooms. By 1989, women dominated the entrance examinations for college attendance.\n\nWomen's participation in education has not slowed despite efforts to impose restrictions on the increasingly female-dominated educational sphere. The changes in women's education have split into increased usage and dominance of the opportunities available to women, and the imposition of strict requirements governing their role in education, including gender-segregated classes, Islamic dress, and the channeling of women into \"feminine\" majors that prevent the pursuit of certain careers.\n\nThe nature of education for Iranian women changed significantly from the period leading up to the Iranian Revolution when compared to the imposition of restrictions following it. Despite the various obstacles for women entering an educational setting, they manage to comprise the majority of college attendees and outperform their male peers on university admissions tests as well as in graduation rates.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century education for women expanded slowly, with enrollment of female students in the 1922 academic year totaling just over 7200 students compared with 35,000 of their male peers. In 1935, women first experienced the secularization of Iran's educational system when the University of Tehran was established. As the nation's secularization created demand for professionally trained students, women were encouraged to attend schools. Education became a social norm and a marker of achievement in Iranian society.\n\nOn the eve of the Iranian Revolution, in 1976-77, 40 percent of secondary school enrollment was female. These numbers largely reflect the upper echelon of Iranian society, as women who were a part of an ethnic minority or from rural areas of Iran were largely excluded from these educational reforms.\n\nThe Iranian Revolution of March 1979 ushered in a period of conservative leadership that altered the role and conception of the new model female in Iranian society. The period was characterized by the retraction of previously passed laws reforming women's status in the home, and the institution in its place of family and civil law based in notions of patriarchy.\n\nThe newly enacted Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran stated the importance of women's economic and social well-being, yet did not guarantee the right to educational opportunities. Instead, the new regime of religious authority cracked down on women's participation in education, barring coeducation. Immediately following the Revolution, universities and many high schools were shut down, not to be reopened for another 3 years. During this time many female faculty were excused from their positions and many women lost their jobs. This included all female judges as well as women who held positions of authority in the government.\n\nUpon reopening of schools and under the leadership of Ayatollah Khomeini, educational curriculum was altered to reflect a new focus on Islamic values. Women were depicted wearing a veil in textbooks, appearing in social studies books as managers of the home and offering guidance on Islam and schoolwork. Men were depicted as providers for the family's needs. Some women did appear in pursuit of farming or factory work, working in hospitals and in schools in these textbooks, mostly in conformity with a gender stereotype of feminine work. Because of this, Iran became a sexist place. \n\nTextbooks and curriculum remained uniform across genders, though the Ministry of Education's \"Study of Professions\" textbooks differentiated between \"male\" and \"female\" specializations and were distributed according to gender. In 1982, gender stereotyped work was institutionalized by the Ministry of Education's introduction of \"KAr va Danesh\", an experiential cooperative day in which students were excused from school to work in various occupations. For females, these experiences consisted of workshops focused on topics such as nutrition, child rearing, cooking, and health.\n\nCourse restrictions in higher education also began under the authority of Religious leader Khomeini, in which men and women were each barred from studying certain majors. Women were excluded from studying veterinary science, animal husbandry, geology, and natural resources, while men were precluded from subjects such as fashion design, obstetrics, and mid-wifery. Of 108 mathematics and computer science majors, women were only permitted to study 43. The government also established quotas for certain specializations, capping the number of women who could pursue specified majors to ensure against the domination of women in these subjects. To comply with the segregation of sexes in schooling and employment, the segregation of subjects led to the founding of a women's only medical school so that female patients could seek treatment from a female physician.\n\nOut of fear that single women may be corrupted by external society, state scholarships to study abroad were also restricted, offered to male students and married women only. The \"Sponsorship for Foreign Students Act\" additionally required that married women who received the scholarship be accompanied by their husbands.\n\nBeginning in 1980, female faculty and students were directed to wear Islamic dress by the Ministry of Education. The institution of veiling throughout Iran in 1981 extended the compulsion to women beginning at 6 years of age. At this time many schools limited teachers to instruct only same-gendered students.\n\nIn 1989, the First Economic, Social, and Cultural Development Plan of the Islamic Republic of Iran, 1989-1993, offered improvement in women's educational opportunities and involvement in social and economic life as key targets for the incoming administration. Following the death of Khomeini in 1989, President Rafsanjani began a process of scaling back restrictions on women's education. Hurdles to education still existed, with the majority of Iranian women married by the age of 19 at the start of the 1990s. The situation was more dire for rural female students, with half of female Iranians living outside urban areas remaining uneducated.\n\nProgress began to be made toward alleviating some of these restrictions in the 1990s. Quotas restricting the number of women who could study particular fields were eliminated while the Women's Cultural and Social Council, an institution headed by Iranian women who held influential positions in Iran, began studying the effects continued restrictions had on the Iranian economy. This led to a lifting of all remaining quotas or bans on studying particular fields, completed in 1993. By the 1990s many of the restrictions imposed on majors were also lifted, offering women more opportunities to pursue a degree in fields such as veterinary science that were banned under the Khomeini government. More women beyond the few, urban elite that initially enrolled in higher education began to attend school under its Islamic form, no longer hesitant about sending their children to institutions taught by men.\n\nEducational opportunities continued through the rule of Mohammad Khatami, who served as President of Iran from 1997-2005. Khatami viewed the home as the proper setting for an Iranian woman, yet did not seek to exclude her from participation in the public sphere. Noting the increasing dominance of women in higher education, Khatami stated that though the increase was concerning, he did not wish to create obstacles in order to reduce this participation. Khatami called for an opening of majors and specialities for women in universities and an end to the quota system.\n\nAt the beginning of Khatami's presidency, over 95 percent girls in Iran attended elementary school. In 1997-98, 38.2 percent of Iranian women enrolled in higher education. This number rose to 47.2 percent by 2000. As female enrollment in schooling continued to climb, the segregation of the sexes in academic specialization continued to persist through the end of the 1990s. In the 1998-99 academic year, males dominated enrollment in math-physics and technical fields with 58 and 71 percent of the enrolled class of secondary school students. Women disproportionately comprised the humanities and experimental sciences field with 61 percent enrollment. Gender specialization continued through university level where the fields of basic sciences, medical sciences, and arts were studied by a majority of women, and agriculture and veterinary science, engineering, and humanities were pursued mostly by men. Overall, however, the decade was characterized by a three-fold increase in female enrollment in higher education.\n\nAt the turn of the 21st century the government continued to scale back restrictions. By 2000, the government supported the establishment of a Women's Studies course to be offered for graduate level study of topics including women's rights. A 2001 report on women's status in Iran published by his office emphasized the goal of improving educational materials for women to reflect their modern role in society, including the counseling of high school students toward specializations that were traditionally dominated by men. In 2001, the government also authorized the use of the \"Sponsorship for Foreign Students Act\" supplement for single women to study abroad, a change from the former restriction. Single women could avail themselves of the funds to pursue higher education in foreign institutions, with the consent of their fathers. 2001 is also the year that female enrollment in university-level education exceeded that of men, showing their continued dominance of education.\n\nThe statistics of the Khatami presidency show the slow rise of female participation in education. In 2002, women dominated the results of its national college entrance examination, comprising 62 percent of passing students. Women pursuing teaching positions in higher education also made gains during this period, holding nearly half of all assistant professorships at universities, nearly double that held a decade before. The number of women accepted into tenured-track and full-time professorships in 2001-02 remained low at 17.3 percent as it was not nearly as proportionate to the number of educated women in Iranian society.\n\nMany of the reforms achieved earlier in Rasfanjani and Khatami's presidencies were eroded with the election of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in 2005. In 2006, the average woman in Iran attended school for nine years. At the start of his presidency in 2007-08, women's gains in education permeated every level, composing 44 percent of students pursuing associate degrees, 55 percent of bachelor's degree students, 43 percent of master's degree students, and a high 58 percent of students pursuing a professional doctorate. Women also dominated 6 of the 7 academic fields offered at university level, save for engineering, comprising the majority of students studying veterinary sciences, basic sciences, human sciences, medical sciences, agriculture and the arts.\n\nWith the former rise of participation by women in education and the reduction of artificially created obstacles to their success in pursuing studies, conservative forces in the Iranian government became alarmed at the erosion of traditional notions of women's role in the home and the competition in the labor market with educated men for whom work outside the home was essential. The government took action, with Ahmadinejad appointing a religious cleric as the Chancellor of the secular Tehran University in November 2005. In 2006, the Ministry of Health and Education imposed a quota system on particular majors and specialities and restricted enrollment of women to universities located in their hometowns. It also instituted the gender segregation of higher education.\n\nThe response from students to what was perceived as the attempt to turn secular universities into religious institutions were protests demanding the preservation of civil liberties, such as the freedom of speech. Conservative politicians demanded, in turn, a crackdown on the \"westernization\" of secular education and an imposition of Islamic philosophy. The Supreme Leader's spokesman for higher education, Hojatoleslam Mohammadian, and the Minister of Science and Higher Education, Mohammad Mehdi Zahedi, both called for the Islamization of universities, while Mohammadian also stated his opposition to women pursuing certain studies in higher education.\n\nIn 2009 Ahmadinejad's pursuit of the further de-feminization of education led to the establishment of the \"Special Council for the Development and Promotion of Humanities.\" Iran's Supreme Council of the Cultural Revolution oversaw this effort, in which seven appointees were responsible for infusing humanities discipline with Islamic principles.\n\nIn 2010, Iran again adopted a quota system to limit the number of women able to enter university education. Iran imposed restrictions on a dozen social studies courses, including women's studies and human rights, on the grounds that \"The content of the current courses in the 12 subjects is not in harmony with religious fundamentals and they are based on Western schools of thought.\"\n\nIn 2011, universities began to announce new restrictions on entry to female students. Whereas previously students who scored highest on the previously gender-neutral university entrance exam, the \"Konkur\", were placed in the best university programs across the country, universities now barred females from enrollment in over 70 specializations. The practical result was to concentrate more women in local universities closer to their homes, and farther from the urban, more secular universities they were otherwise qualified to attend.\n\nIn January 2011, the president of Allameh Tabatabai University in Tehran, Sadreddin Shariati, announced that subjects with large numbers of students would be split by gender. Prior to this, university libraries and canteens were already segregated. It was claimed that the Iranian public had already been requesting gender segregation in education in some highly religious areas and in the capital; also, such segregation was said to already be in progress in a number of other Iranian universities. Senior cleric Hojatoleslam Mohammad Mohamadian pushed for segregated classes in 2006, and again in 2009; other governmental requests to allow segregation date back over 15 years.\n\nOn 20 August 2012, an announcement was made by Iran's Ministry of Science, Research and Technology that 36 universities in Iran would be cutting 77 fields of study from the female curriculum, making them male-only fields. The fields chosen include most sciences and engineering, among others. The curriculum change was set to be implemented for the 2013 school year and the fields of study limitations for women have been added to the university \"leaflets\". Universities like the Oil Industry University have completely barred women from attending, citing the \"lack of employer demand\".\n\nThe announcement came soon after the release of statistics showing that women were graduating in far higher numbers than men from Iranian universities and were scoring overall better than men, especially in the sciences.\n\nThis reasoning was echoed by Isfahan University, which stated that from those that obtained mining engineering degrees \"98 percent of female graduates ended up jobless.\" The disciplines related to agriculture were also regarded as \"unfit\" for female students. Therefore, as a consequence of this move, women may not become engineers, nuclear physicists, archaeologists, business graduates and computer scientists in Iran. Additionally, they are also banned from attending the departments of English literature, translation and hotel management. Another reason given was that because of a shortage of available female dormitories, attendance had to be lowered. A comparison was made, however, to the fact that nursing was made a female-only degree in the same announcement.\n\nThe possibility of fields of study restrictions was first reported by the Mehr News Agency on 6 August 2012. The news followed the release of the year's entrance exam scores, showing that 60 percent of university attendees are women, along with test scores of the past few years showing women largely outperforming men. This included 52 percent of university graduates and 68 percent of science degree graduates being women. These results have caused concern among the senior clerics of the country, who became worried about the \"social side-effects of rising educational standards among women, including declining birth and marriage rates\".\n\nAmnesty International reported that in April 2012, university security personnel at the Roudehen Branch of Islamic Azad University beat female students who were not complying with hijab (Islamic dress) standards. They also claimed reports of quotas restricting women’s admission to specific university programs (\"designed to reduce women’s access to specific fields of study\") implemented by the Ministry of Science, Research and Technology. Such restrictions on women’s educational choices were said to violate the prohibition on discrimination and Iran’s obligations under international law.\n\nSeyed Abolfazl Hassani, a senior Iranian education official, stated in defense of the announcement that, \"Some fields are not very suitable for women’s nature, such as agricultural machinery or mining, partly because of the hard work involved in them.\" The policy change was criticized by some Iranian parliamentarians, such as Mohammad-Mehdi Zahedi, head of the Iranian parliament’s education and research committee. However, Kamran Daneshjoo, the science and higher education minister, gave a \"guarded response\" to the news, saying that the universities would have to state a reason, but also supported the change by explaining that \"90 percent of degrees remain open to both sexes and that single-gender courses were needed to create 'balance'.\" Zahedi said in response that Daneshjoo is \"expected to present himself to parliament to explain this policy\".\n\nIranian Nobel Peace Prize winner and human rights activist Shirin Ebadi wrote to the United Nations in protest of the restrictions, stating that the Iranian government is \"trying to limit the active presence of women in society\". She has asked for the issue to be added to \"Iran's human rights dossier\". The letter was then forwarded to UN special rapporteur for Iran Ahmad Shaheed and to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navanethem Pillay. Ebadi also added that the purpose of this policy change is to reduce the number of female university attendees to below 50 percent, down from the current 65 percent . On 22 September 2012, Human Rights Watch urged Iran to reverse the new policy, claiming that such restrictions are a violation of the international right to education for everyone without discrimination.\n\nWhen Hassan Rouhani took control of the Presidency in 2013, there was hope that he would usher in a radical shift in Iranian society toward equal women's rights. Hopes that he would scale back quota use and institute more lenient reforms have not been fully realized, with the UN Special Rapporteur noting in a 2015 report that significant discrimination against women still persists in the political and economic spheres, overshadowing the gains made in education. The Special Rapporteur also noted that despite 14 recommendations made to alleviate the obstacles currently preventing equal gender attainment in the educational sphere, the Rouhani government rejected consideration of all of them.\n\nWhile the vast majority of Iranian students who attend secondary school do not go on to study at a university, 42 percent of women who take the university entrance exams continue on to higher education, compared to 29 percent of males. The state of literacy and educational attainment among ethnic minority females is also poor when compared to urban, non-minority peers, as they are not forced to attend school and often enter marriage at an early age.\n\nThe dual nature of female participation in education is not yet reflected in their role in the economy, where 20-25 percent of educated women are able to find work.\n\nIn addition to formal education, women in Iran may enroll in literacy programs. These programs target women, offering basic training in simple math, reading, and writing. In the 1990s, women composed over two-thirds of enrollees in these programs. This may have contributed to the steep rise in female literacy rates in Iran in the 1990s, which increased twenty-percent from 1987 to 1997.\n\nReligious schools have also become an educational option for Iranian women, and the rise in the institution of \"female seminaries\" to 280 as of 2010 shows their increasing use as an academic pursuit. The popularity stems from the infusion of religion into Iran post-revolution, when Ayatollah Khomeini called for the establishment of Jami‘at al-Zahra in 1984, the first female seminary in Iran. The institution, a consolidation of smaller religious schools, offers enrollees the chance to earn anything from high school diplomas to doctoral degrees. Women must apply to enroll in the institutions, where only 7,000 women were accepted from a field of over 25,000 applicants in the 2010 academic year.\n\nSeminaries have served as an alternative to higher education when female applicants are denied admission, either as a result of academic success or the quota system employed by public universities.\n\nNewly married Iranian women must attend government-mandated family planning classes. Information on health and birth control use is included in these programs.\n\nThough education has been dominated in many fields by females, especially at the university level, it has not enabled women to enter the work force in comparative numbers. Aside from having an empowering aspect for women, some scholars note increased schooling has yet to result in paid employment increases or roles in authoritative positions of employment. While female participation in the paid economy was shown to increase by a third after the Iranian Revolution, the seemingly optimistic figure was attributed more so to the continued employment of women already in the labor force rather than an increase in newly graduated women successfully entering it. Whereas 23.5 million men held paid positions in the Iranian economy in 2006, for instance, merely 3.5 million Iranian women obtained similar positions, or 20 percent of the labor force pool.\n\nThe increase in educational opportunities has also not correlated with an increase in the number of educated women entering decision-making positions in government or the private economy. Women are largely absent from high-level full-time professorship positions or as heads of institutions of higher educations, a reality made more difficult by the low enrollment rate of women at the master's and specialized doctorate levels of education that are necessary for positions in university-level positions. Some scholars have argued that education has contributed to female self-empowerment, giving women a task to achieve that is outside the home even if it does lead to viable employment.\n\nSurvey evidence indicates that young educated Iranian women view education as important or very important to a female in Iranian society, more so than other members of Iranian society. More of these educated youth also believe, more so than their non-educated and older female compatriots, that their daughters should marry following attendance of an institution of higher education. The education of Iranian women has correspondingly led to a delayed entry into marriage, with non-educated females more than half as likely to be married by the time they turn 22 years old than educated peers. Education is also shown to contribute to the delayed start of having a family, with the majority of educated women having their first child by the age of 24, 4 years later than non-educated women in Iran.\n"}
{"id": "11943596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11943596", "title": "Youth Empowerment Scheme", "text": "Youth Empowerment Scheme\n\nThe Youth Empowerment Scheme, or YES, is a charity in Belfast that offers a mentoring service to children between 11 and 14 years old. \n\nYES was established in 2001 by participants on the Washington Ireland Program including Chris Johnston, Ryan Moffett, Sarah Quinlan and Andrea Erskine and was based on Teamwork for Tomorrow, a similar scheme run by students at Notre Dame University, United States.\n\nIn 2004 YES was awarded the BT Link Award for Challenge with the University of Ulster.\n\nThe Youth Empowerment Scheme aims at empowering the young people of Belfast and encouraging them to be active citizens in their city. It holds that youth mentoring can provide young people with positive role models, support and encouragement, and is thus the most effective way of helping them reach their fullest potential as citizens and productive members of society.\n\nYES aims to promote the social inclusion of young people of ethnic, religious, educational and social economic diversity. To contribute to the creation of a tolerant, pluralist society in Belfast, free from racism, sectarianism and anti-Semitism, the Youth Empowerment Scheme runs weekly workshops that explain and celebrate the diversity of cultures in the city. In 2005 a project entitled 'Gaining Voice' culminated in the release of a short film written and produced by the young participants in the Scheme. It took the form of a political broadcast and highlighted issues of concern to young people, such as peer pressure, bullying and racism.\n\nThe Youth Empowerment Scheme is run primarily by student volunteers from the University of Ulster and Queen's University Belfast. Volunteers receive training in child mentoring and in child protection policy and procedures.\n\nYES relies on the goodwill of volunteers in terms of time and also donations to run the charity. Some successful charity fundraisers include 'A night at the movies'.\n\nFilm fans came together at the Sheridan IMAX movie theatre to raise over £1,500 in box-office takings for a children’s charity.'The silver screen worked its magic for the Youth Empowerment Scheme (YES), a cross community, multi-ethnic charity set up by UU and QUB students to work as mentors with children aged 11–14. Featuring live jazz as well as cinema the special fundraising event - billed as ‘A Night at the Movies’.\n"}
