{"id": "42017459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42017459", "title": "Apostolus Christinopolitanus", "text": "Apostolus Christinopolitanus\n\nThe Apostolus Christinopolitanus is a Cyrillic manuscript of the Acts and Epistles with commentary, written in Church Slavonic of the East Slavonic recension in the middle of the twelfth century. It takes its name from the town of Krystynopol (now Chervonohrad), where it was kept until 1908. The greater part of the manuscript (291 leaves), is now in the Historical Museum in Ľviv (MS 37); a further 8 leaves are in the National Library of the Ukraine in Kiev (MS VIII.3).\n\nThe manuscript in its present condition is incomplete, lacking Acts i 1 – ix 27 and xiii 6–19, I Peter ii 11-25, I Timothy iv 8 – vi 21, and all of II Timothy, Titus and Philemon. Unusually, the Epistle to the Hebrews is placed between II Thessalonians and I Timothy. The epistles are accompanied by the prefaces and chapter-lists of the Euthalian Apparatus and by extensive commentary. The manuscript is very unusual in having the scriptural text occupying the central area of the page and the commentary in smaller writing in the wide margins surrounding it, an arrangement common in Greek manuscripts but almost unknown in the Slavonic tradition, where the text and commentary usually occupy the same central area.\n\nThe Apostolus Christinopolitanus was published in 1896 by Emil Kałużniacki, who however printed only the scriptural text (supplying the missing parts with text from other manuscripts) and omitted the commentary. After a thorough restoration of the manuscript, carried out in 2007 and 2008, a digital facsimile was made available by the National Library.\n\nThe text of the Apostolus Christinopolitanus, in Kałużniacki′s edition, was used as a source for Slavonic variants to the Greek New Testament in the United Bible Societies′ edition, somewhat unfortunately, as the editors failed to notice that some of the variants actually come from the other manuscripts used by Kałużniacki, and because, despite the antiquity of the manuscript, the text is not a good witness to the earliest Slavonic version: in common with other manuscripts that include commentary, it ″bears the marks of revision and subsequent influence from Greek manuscripts\". The manuscript nevertheless has considerable linguistic and text-critical importance for the Slavonic version, particularly when the commentary is taken into account.\n"}
{"id": "308764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=308764", "title": "Arthur Prior", "text": "Arthur Prior\n\nArthur Norman Prior (4 December 1914 – 6 October 1969), usually cited as A. N. Prior, was a noted logician and philosopher. Prior (1957) founded tense logic, now also known as temporal logic, and made important contributions to intensional logic, particularly in Prior (1971).\n\nPrior was born in Masterton, New Zealand, on 4 December 1914, the only child of Australian-born parents: Norman Henry Prior (1882–1967) and his wife born Elizabeth Munton Rothesay Teague (1889–1914). His mother died less than 3 weeks after his birth and he was cared for by his father's sister. His father, a medical practitioner in general practice, remarried in 1920 and there were three more children. Prior grew up in a Methodist home and both of his grandfathers came to Australia as missionaries. His father Norman Prior was a doctor who was decorated for his service as medical officer in the first world war. \n\nPrior was educated entirely in New Zealand, where he was fortunate to have come under the influence of John Niemeyer Findlay. Despite knowing only modest mathematics, he began teaching philosophy and logic at Canterbury University College in 1946, filling the vacancy created by Karl Popper's resignation. In 1951 Prior met J.J.C. Smart, also known as \"Jack\" Smart, at a philosophical conference in Australia and the two developed a life-long friendship. Their correspondence was influential on Prior's development of tense-logic. Smart adhered to the tenseless theory of time and was never persuaded by Prior's arguments, though Prior was influential in making Smart skeptical about Wittgenstein's view on pseudo-relations. He became Professor in 1953. Thanks to the good offices of Gilbert Ryle, who had met Prior in New Zealand in 1954, Prior spent the year 1956 on leave at the University of Oxford, where he gave the John Locke lectures in philosophy. These were subsequently published as \"Time and Modality\" (1957). This is a seminal contribution to the study of tense logic and the metaphysics of time, in which Prior championed the A-theorist view that the temporal modalities past, present and future are basic ontological categories of fundamental importance for our understanding of time and the world. During his time at Oxford, Prior met Peter Geach and William Kneale, influenced John Lemmon, and corresponded with the adolescent Saul Kripke. Logic in the United Kingdom was then in a rather low state, and Prior's enthusiasm is believed to have contributed materially to its revival. From 1959 to 1966, he was Professor of Philosophy at the University of Manchester, having taught Osmund Lewry. From 1966 until his death he was Fellow and Tutor in philosophy at Balliol College, Oxford. His students include Max Cresswell, Kit Fine, and Robert Bull. \n\nAlmost entirely self-taught in modern formal logic, Prior published his first paper on logic in 1952, when he was already 38 years of age, shortly after discovering the work of Józef Maria Bocheński and Jan Łukasiewicz, very little of whose work was then translated into English. He went on to employ Polish notation throughout his career. Prior (1955) distills much of his early teaching of logic in New Zealand. Prior's work on tense logic provides a systematic and extended defence of a tensed conception of reality in which material objects are construed as three-dimensional continuants which are wholly present at each moment of their existence.\n\nPrior stood out by virtue of his strong interest in the history of logic. He was one of the first English-speaking logicians to appreciate the nature and scope of the logical work of Charles Sanders Peirce, and the distinction between \"de dicto\" and \"de re\" in modal logic. Prior taught and researched modal logic before Kripke proposed his possible worlds semantics for it, at a time when modality and intentionality commanded little interest in the English speaking world, and had even come under sharp attack by Willard Van Orman Quine.\n\nHe is now said to be the precursor of hybrid logic. Undertaking (in one section of his book \"Past, Present, and Future\" (1967)) the attempt to combine binary (e.g., \"until\") and unary (e.g., \"will always be\") temporal operators to one system of temporal logic, Prior—as an incidental result—builds a base for later hybrid languages.\n\nHis work \"Time and Modality\" explored the use of a many-valued logic to explain the problem of non-referring names.\n\nPrior's work was both philosophical and formal and provides a productive synergy between formal innovation and linguistic analysis. Natural language, he remarked, can embody folly and confusion as well as the wisdom of our ancestors. He was scrupulous in setting out the views of his adversaries, and provided many constructive suggestions about the formal development of alternative views.\n\nThe following books were either written by Prior, or are posthumous collections of journal articles and unpublished papers that he wrote:\n\nThe nearest thing to a biography of Prior is:\n\n\nAn excellent survey of Prior's life and achievement is:\n\nOngoing research on the importance of Prior's philosophy and logic:\n\n"}
{"id": "6735455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6735455", "title": "Between the devil and the deep blue sea", "text": "Between the devil and the deep blue sea\n\n\"Between the devil and the deep blue sea\" is an idiom meaning a dilemma—i.e., to choose between two undesirable situations (equivalent to \"between a rock and a hard place\").\n\nThe first recorded citation of \"the Devil and the deep sea\" in print is in Robert Monro's \"His expedition with the worthy Scots regiment called Mac-keyes\", 1637: \"I, with my partie, did lie on our poste, as betwixt the devill and the deep sea.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "15766117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15766117", "title": "Brian Leftow", "text": "Brian Leftow\n\nBrian Leftow (born 1956) is the Nolloth Professor of the Philosophy of the Christian Religion at Oriel College, Oxford, succeeding Richard Swinburne, who retired in 2002. In fall 2018, he will join the faculty at Rutgers University.\n\nHe is a graduate of Grove City College, and earned his M.A and Ph.D. at Yale University. Before occupying the Nolloth chair at the University of Oxford, Leftow taught at Fordham University. In fall 2018, he will take up the William P. Alston Chair in Philosophy of Religion at Rutgers University.\n\nLeftow's research interests include metaphysics, medieval philosophy, and philosophical theology.\n\n"}
{"id": "201193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201193", "title": "Carlos Santiago Nino", "text": "Carlos Santiago Nino\n\nCarlos Santiago Nino (1943–1993) was an Argentine moral, legal and political philosopher.\n\nNino studied law at the University of Buenos Aires and at Oxford, where he received his Ph.D. in 1977 with a thesis directed by John Finnis and Tony Honoré.\n\nNino began his academic activity in the early 1970s, concentrating on some traditional issues in jurisprudence, such as the concept of a legal system, the interpretation of the law, the debate between legal positivism and natural law, and the concept of validity. After realizing the need to clarify the normative problems involved in some of those issues, he was led to embrace a model based on the explicit adoption of principles of justice and social morality, rejecting the predominant German-inspired \"dogmatic\" approach. This signaled the beginning of his philosophical investigations, which were always oriented to practical issues, and marked by a distinctively analytical approach. His need to provide a liberal justification for criminal law practice thus lead him to moral philosophy, and to the development of an original \"consensual\" theory of punishment which combined the merits of the retributive and utilitarian (see deterrence) varieties while avoiding their respective difficulties. Similarly, the problems presented by the characterization of criminal conduct stimulated his work in the field of philosophy of action.\n\nDuring the early 1980s, after the restoration of democracy, Nino became engaged in politics, serving as personal assistant to President Raúl Alfonsín and as coordinator of his newly created \"Consejo para la consolidación de la democracia\", a special committee for the study and design of institutional reforms. His theoretical activities, however, were not forgotten: in 1984 he published his monumental \"Ética y derechos humanos\", dedicated to Alfonsín, where he provided a comprehensive exposition of his moral thought; divided in three parts, it dealt with normative and applied ethics, as well as with meta-ethics. This last field he expanded in a separate volume, where he adopted a constructivist approach that attempted to derive his fundamental ethical principles from the presuppositions of moral discourse, in a manner that put him, as he said, \"between Rawls and Habermas\". These substantive principles, comprising the nucleus of a theory that aspired to capture the essential components of political liberalism, were the principle of autonomy, the principle of inviolability, and the principle of dignity. The first expressed Nino's conception of the good: those things, and those things only, that were valued by the individual in question. The second imposed deontological restrictions to the pursuit of that good, prohibiting the sacrifice of some to achieve the benefit of others. The third principle allowed for individual consent, thus permitting persons to waive the rights recognized by the second one.\n\nWith this solid normative foundation, Nino went to tackle some practical issues, such as abortion, capital punishment, and drug regulation. On the former, he proposed a gradualist approach similar to the American one, recognizing rights to the fetuses only when they showed the cognitive and affective capacities necessary for considering them moral persons. As regards death penalty, he was firmly opposed to it—as he was to the criminalization of drug consumption.\n\nWhile on trip to La Paz, Bolivia in 1993 to work on the reform of the Bolivian constitution, Nino had an asthma attack and subsequently died. This tragedy killed a man who appeared to be at the peak of his productivity: the year before he had published two books, served as editor to two others, and had given the manuscripts of a couple more to his friend Owen Fiss, who assumed the responsibility of readying them for publication. \"The Constitution of Deliberative Democracy\" and \"Radical Evil on Trial\" saw the light in 1996. In the first he developed his \"epistemic justification\" of deliberative democracy, arguing that democratic deliberation provides better reasons to believe in the validity of moral norms than private reflection. The second is a moving personal description of the military junta trials; it provides a testimony to his unique ability to approach public affairs with both philosophical sophistication and political commitment.\n\n"}
{"id": "40071362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40071362", "title": "Carolyn Korsmeyer", "text": "Carolyn Korsmeyer\n\nCarolyn Korsmeyer (born 1950) is an author and Professor of Philosophy at the University of Buffalo in New York. She is generally recognized for her study and research on aesthetics, feminism, and emotion theory.\n\nCarolyn received her Ph.D. from Brown University in 1972. In 1978, she began working as a professor of Philosophy at the University of Buffalo where she continues to work today as the Head of the Philosophy Department. Since beginning her career at the University of Buffalo, Korsmeyer has been recognized multiple times for her outstanding performance and continued achievements for her work both in and away from Philosophy. During her long career, Korsmeyer has published multiple acclaimed articles and books on feminism and aesthetics.\n\nAfter receiving her PhD in 1972, Korsmeyer began to focus her research on feminist philosophy and the field of aesthetics. Feminist perspectives in aesthetics has long been major work of Korsmeyer. Fine art, genius, beauty, taste, and aesthetic perception are gendered issues that she has studied and researched.\n\nThe philosophy of taste is a relatively new subject in the field of philosophy, however Korsmeyer's study of \"bad taste\" is well known. Her consideration of taste in philosophy explores why pungent food like soured milk, fried bugs, extremely hot peppers, and game meat are seen as strong and complex to our palettes. A theoretical understanding of taste of food is compared to the philosophy and interpretation of art in that both deem the similar qualities that entail discriminating perception and also that food and art are both considered 'artistic in creation.' The argument Korsmeyer presents is that these \"cosmopolitan foods\" are so complex that they lie on a nearly transparent line straddling between the sublime and disgusting and, when the brain is given the choice, usually the positive reaction wins. Thus, these seemingly disgusting foods give a positive aesthetic response. \nHer publications on the subject include: \n\nFeminist aesthetics refers to the idea that in their basic form, classic concepts such as genius, beauty, fine art, aesthetic perception cradle social roles are qualities that are presumed as gender related. In her most notorious book titled \"Gender and Aesthetics: An Introduction to Understanding Feminist Philosophy\" (London: Routledge, 2004) Korsmeyer uses these \"classic concepts\" to identify their qualities and goes on to explain the weight of gender as the abiding attribute. Genius, for example, is said to be 'superior in mind' which has long been associated with masculinity while 'beauty' has long been described as small, soft curvatures that \"catch a man's eye\" and thus, is defined as female. Much of her work revolves around the parameters of feminist presence in art, music, and literature. \nIn her book \"Aesthetics in Feminist Perspective\" Korsemeyer compares theories of art and the varying interpretations based on gender bias.\n\nHer publications on the subject include:\n\n\nUniversity at Buffalo Research Recognition Program awarded Korsmeyer their Sustained Achievement Exceptional Scholar Award to awknowledge her outstanding performance over a several year period in her body of work. In 2001, she won the Buffalo and Erie County Public Library's Mark Twain Creative Writing Competition by writing a chapter that concluded Twain's unpublished short story, \"A Murder, a Mystery and a Marriage.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "33771392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33771392", "title": "Cezary Wodziński", "text": "Cezary Wodziński\n\nCezary Wodziński (27 May 1959 – 12 June 2016) was a Polish philosopher, historian of philosophy, essayist, translator, and writer. He was a lecturer at Jagiellonian University in Cracow (Poland) and at the University of Warsaw (Poland).\n\nCezary Wodziński, the son of Zygmunt Wodziński (an engineer) and Michalina Wodzińska (teacher), was born in rural Lębork, Poland. He attended Tadeusz Reytan's High School in Warsaw. Among his classmates were Filip Łobodziński, journalist and translator, and Andrzej Sosnowski, poet. Following high school graduation, he took a job at Psychoneurological Institute of Warsaw as a paramedic. Aside from this, he also enrolled to Mountain Rescue, GOPR (Grupa Beskidzka - Bieszczady).\n\nIn 1979 he started studying philosophy at the University of Warsaw. During his studies, he was an author of many philosophical publications. He defended his dissertation in 1985 with a thesis: \"The dispute about the limits of rationality. Szestow – Husserl”, which was a degree of honors. \nIn 1986, he worked first at the Institute of Philosophy and Sociology of PAN (National Academy of Sciences) in the Department of Contemporary Philosophy, headed by prof. Barbara Skarga, followed by prof. Stanisław Borzym. In 1996 he started an independent research lab. In 1989 he defended his doctorate. PhD thesis was \"Knowledge and salvation. Study of Lev Shestov's thoughts. Supervisor of his PhD thesis was prof. B. Skarga, and reviewers: Professor. R. Łużny, prof. K. Pomian.\nHe habiltated in 1994. Habilitation thesis was \"Heidegger and the problem of evil\". Among reviewers were prof. K. Michalski, prof. B. Skarga and prof. J. Tischner. The habilitation was awarded with T. Kotarbinski prize and Prime Minister prize. In 1999 he eventually obtained the title of professor of the humanities. In the end of 90s' he was an editor in chief of philosophical magazines as following: „Aletheia” i „Biblioteki Aletheia”. As a result of his outstanding performance, he was awarded an academic scholarships i.a. in Paris, Vienna and Fryburg. Wodziński lectured in Stockholm and Moscow. In 2001 he obtained the title of professor ordinarius at Jagiellonian University of Cracow.\n\nRussian philosophy and theology, German philosophy, religious philosophy, phenomenology, hermeneutics, philosophy of dialogue, transcendental philosophy, philosophy of language, philosophy of existence, metaphysics,ontology, axiology were topics of his particular interest.\nIn his scientific achievements were: fifteen publications, more than eighty discourses, papers and essays of philosophy issues. He was twice awarded I prize of STP (Stowarzyszenie Tłumaczy Polskich - Polish Translators Association) in the field of philosophical translation. He was a member of Collegium Invisibile.\n\nTo the most significant publications belong:\n"}
{"id": "3011128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3011128", "title": "Charismatic megafauna", "text": "Charismatic megafauna\n\nCharismatic megafauna are large animal species with symbolic value, widespread popular appeal, and are often used by environmental activists to achieve environmentalist goals. Examples include the humpback whale, giant panda, bald eagle, California condor, harp seal, and penguin. Paradoxically, numerous charismatic species are endangered by hunting and black market commerce.\n\nCharismatic species are often used as flagship species in conservation programs, as they are supposed to attract people's feelings more. However, being charismatic does not protect species against extinction: all of the 10 most charismatic species are currently endangered, and only the giant panda shows a demographic growth from an extremely small population.\n\nBeginning early in the 20th century, efforts to reintroduce extirpated charismatic megafauna to ecosystems have been an interest of a number of private and non-government conservation organizations. Species have been reintroduced from captive breeding programs in zoos, such as the European bison to Poland's Białowieża Forest.\nThese and other reintroductions of charismatic megafauna, such as Przewalski's horse to Mongolia, have been to areas of limited, and often patchy range compared to the historic ranges of the respective species.\n\nEnvironmental activists and proponents of ecotourism seek to use the leverage provided by charismatic and well-known species to achieve more subtle and far-reaching goals in species and biodiversity conservation. By directing public attention to the diminishing numbers of giant panda due to habitat loss, for example, conservation groups can raise support for the protection of the panda and for the entire ecosystem of which it is a part. (The giant panda is portrayed in the logo of the World Wide Fund for Nature.)\n\nCharismatic megafauna may be subject to taxonomic inflation, in that taxonomists will declare a subspecies to be a species because of the advocacy benefits of a unique species, rather than because of new scientific evidence. The public's preference to identify with species sold through the ecotourism industry may be a factor for creating taxonomic inflation. In the public perception, ecotourism may be about seeing species, and the number of unique species increases the perceived biodiversity and tourism value of an area. A correlation may exist between the taxonomic bias in biodiversity datasets and the charisma of terrestrial megafauna, with the more charismatic species being largely over-reported.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41518933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41518933", "title": "ChatSecure", "text": "ChatSecure\n\nChatSecure is a messaging application for iOS which allows OTR and OMEMO encryption for the XMPP protocol. ChatSecure is free and open source software available under the GNU General Public License. ChatSecure also features built-in support for anonymous communication on the Tor network.\n\nChatSecure has been used by international individuals and governments, businesses, and those spreading jihadi propaganda.\n\nChatSecure was originally released in 2011 and was the first iOS application to support OTR messaging. In 2012 ChatSecure formed a partnership with The Guardian Project and the Gibberbot app was rebranded to \"ChatSecure Android\".\nIn late 2016, the Android branding partnership was ended, with ChatSecure Android becoming 'Zom', and ChatSecure iOS remaining as ChatSecure. ChatSecure iOS remains in active development and is unaffected by this change. Version 4.0 was released on January 17, 2017.\n\nIn November 2014, \"ChatSecure + Orbot\" received a perfect score on the Electronic Frontier Foundation's \"Secure Messaging Scorecard\"; the combination received points for having communications encrypted in transit, having communications encrypted with keys the provider doesn't have access to (end-to-end encryption), making it possible for users to independently verify their correspondents' identities, having past communications secure if the keys are stolen (forward secrecy), having the code open to independent review (open source), having the security designs well-documented, and having a recent independent security audit.\n\n"}
{"id": "42130800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42130800", "title": "Children's use of information", "text": "Children's use of information\n\nChildren's use of information is an issue in ethics and child development. Information is learned from many different sources and source monitoring (see also source-monitoring error) is important in understanding how people use information and decide which information is credible. Consider the example of a parent whose child has been diagnosed with hyperactivity; the parent searches the internet for information, reads books, participates in an online chat room with other parents in the same situation, and consults various medical professionals. Some of these sources will be credible (contain reliable information), and others will not. To be well-informed, the parent must filter information according to the reliability of the source.\n\nChildren learn about the world in much the same way. They are told things by numerous people (e.g., teachers, parents, siblings, and friends), see things on the television or internet, and read information in books. Can children be effective consumers of information? At what age are they able to do this? How do they deal with ambiguous resources? This page will detail answers to those questions (and others) by drawing on peer-reviewed scientific research.\n\nYoung children have more difficulty with understanding and recalling the sources of information than adults do. Although episodic memory improves throughout childhood, development in the area of source monitoring tends to occur between the ages of 3 and 8 years. At 3 years, children who are able to immediately recognize the source of the information they obtain have difficulty recalling this information after a short delay. The development of source monitoring is gradual, and children achieve and display competency in certain aspects of source monitoring before others. The developmental trajectory of source monitoring provides insight into what cognitive factors are necessary prerequisites. While there is no generally accepted unified theory for the development of source monitoring, five major theories contribute ideas about how source monitoring develops in children: source monitoring theory, fuzzy-trace theory, schema theory, person-based perspective, and the mental-state reasoning model.\n\nAccording to source monitoring theory, the source of information is attributed through a decision-making process, where source is inferred based on various characteristics inherent in the memory itself. This means that the sources are not directly encoded, but rather reconstructed, when information is recalled. This decision-making process can either be through automatic, unconscious processing, or through heightened demanding and systematic processing that may require reasoning, and the retrieval of supporting memories. This theory implicates the development of episodic memory and memory strategies in the development of source monitoring more generally.\n\nFuzzy-trace theory hypothesizes that the source-monitoring errors that children make are caused by problems with memory storage and retrieval. Memories are simultaneously stored in two different formats: the \"gist\" level (extracted from the experience), and the \"verbatim\" representation (information in exact detail). It is proposed that the source of information is encoded in memory as a verbatim detail. Memories for verbatim details decay more quickly over time than gist representations, and young children demonstrate faster decay of verbatim information than older children or adults. Younger children are more likely to experience memory intrusions due to weaker memory traces, which leads to a susceptibility to misleading information replacing memory traces from a previous event. For this reason, developmental changes in episodic memory performance are viewed as the driving factor in source monitoring development.\n\nSchema theory, as a derivative of script theory, states that after repeated exposure to similar events, individuals form a general representation of what typically happens. Some details are the same at each instance of repeated events, and others can vary from instance to instance. In the script for what usually happens, there is a \"slot\" for each variable detail and the detail for a particular time is chosen from a list of possible variations. If source information is encoded as a slot, errors in source monitoring can be the result of incorrect retrieval of a specific detail. This framework allows for the storage of a large amount of detailed information about specific events, however is very cognitively demanding for children. Because of their limited cognitive resources, young children require more experience with repeated events in order to generate a schema. Details that vary from instance to instance can be lost, and children rely instead on the generalized event representation when attempting to recall a particular instance. The main assumption is that the development of source monitoring depends on an increase in cognitive processing capacity.\n\nPerson-based perspective emphasizes prospective processes. Prospective processes relate actions to one another through operations such as sequencing and planning. These processes are affected by the perspective taken (self vs. other) or the goals and meaning to the individual. The meaning attached to the goal of an action can interfere with source monitoring by removing attention from the source details. The person-based perspective is social-cognitive in nature (more so than other theories of source monitoring) and assumes that development is reliant on socialization and theory of mind development.\n\nThe mental-state reasoning model highlights possible mechanisms behind young children's suggestibility. Children who have difficulty with reasoning about conflicting mental representations are likely to overwrite their original memories with misinformation because they cannot reconcile two contradicting views of what actually occurred. Source monitoring and the understanding of knowledge states, play a key role in resisting suggestions. The development of source monitoring is presumed to be based on better understanding of knowledge states, metacognition and theory of mind.\n\nBeing aware of how we have acquired information is particularly difficult for young children (specifically 3 to 5 year-olds). After feeling a soft ball, 3 and 4 year-olds can correctly identify whether they know the ball is soft or hard, but cannot always say how they know. Perhaps it is because they felt the ball, saw the ball, or were told it was soft. The ability to recognize the origin of their knowledge requires the understanding of how knowledge is acquired.\n\nWhen asked knowledge questions (\"Do you know what is in the box?\") then justification questions (\"How do [or why don't] you know what is in the box?\"), children who can correctly answer are able to reflect on knowledge that they have gained from a particular source and should be able to identify the source of information.\n\n3 and 4 year-olds are better at answering these questions when the questions refer to themselves in comparison to referring to another person. When these children are shown a hidden object they can correctly report their perceptual access (responding correctly to \"Did you look into the box?\") and their knowledge access of what is in the box (responding correctly to \"Do you know [not know] what is in the box?\"). Despite their ability to answer correctly when referring to the self, 3 and 4 year-olds have difficulty responding to the \"other's\" knowledge, where they deny the \"other\" has the knowledge. 3-4 year-olds can correctly identify that the other person has in fact looked in a box, but when asked \"Does [other] know what is in the box?\" the child will deny that the other person knows what is in the box. The key assumption is then that although children are aware that perceptual access is needed, they are unable to acknowledge that the knowledge was gained from perceptual access.\n\nGaining knowledge is knowing how to acquire new information. The ability to recognize how specific knowledge can be gained by perceptual access (looking, feeling or smelling) is the understanding of Aspectuality. Aspectuality understanding is the awareness that an object is made up of many different properties (colour, weight, odour), which can be determined by a specific perceptual action (looking, feeling, smelling). Identifying the colour of a car outside the window could involve asking someone for the information or looking out the window. In most cases, adults would acquire this knowledge from simply looking out the window. However, not all information can be gained in this manner. If you were asked to find out how old the driver of the car is, simply looking would not provide accurate information; you would have to ask. These two situations are dependent on whether the information being sought out is visible or invisible (respectively). Knowledge development depends on children's ability to efficiently pursue their informational goal. Children do not always make the most effective or efficient decision when acquiring new information.\n\n6 year-olds are able to distinguish when gaining knowledge requires looking (the information is visible) or when gaining knowledge requires asking (the information is invisible). However, 4 year-olds do not perform as consistently. Even with an expert present, 4 year-olds will overestimate the knowledge they can gain through looking. However, when the information to be gained is regarding a group of friends and the expert is a friend of the group, 4 year-olds tend to overestimate knowledge acquisition through asking.\n\nWhen given access to pairs of objects, which could either be identified by seeing (identical objects: different in colour) or by touch/feeling (identical objects: 1 soft, 1 hard), children perform relatively well, generally recognizing when they have adequate information and when they have inadequate information (i.e., knowing the object is blue after seeing it or knowing the object is soft after feeling it). But, when young children are not given access (of seeing or feeling), they have difficulty predicting and identifying which mode of access would allow them to identify the object. In this case, 3 and 4 year-olds overestimate the knowledge that could be gained through feeling the object. 3 to 4 year-olds may not understand the perceptual access needed to acquire the specific knowledge.\n\nWaters and Beck (2012) state \"understanding the link between perceptual access and consequent information (knowledge access) is a crucial component in the development of theory of mind\". In a typical adult population, change in the phrasing of a particular question would not affect the understanding of what action needs to occur. \"What colour is the bike that is outside?\" or \"Is the bike red?\" should not change the action of \"looking\" to gain the needed information. However, children's performance is susceptible to this type of question phrasing. There are language effects on knowledge access through 3 different question types:\n\n\n4 and 5 year-olds are more likely to respond correctly to aspect and dimension questions in comparison to identity questions. Aspect and dimension questions are more explicit, which may be why performance is better in these categories. Identity questions require more cognitive effort as one has to remember how the objects were similar and how they differed.\n\nMuch of people's knowledge about the world is not obtained from direct experience, but indirectly from what other people or sources tell them. With widespread use of the internet people have access to nearly unlimited sources of information. Some of that information might be conflicting, and different sources of information vary in their accuracy and credibility. People can also deliberately deceive, be misunderstood, or be mistaken. It is important that people develop the necessary skills to assess the accuracy of what they are being told.\n\nAdults make credibility judgments based on two factors: expertise and trustworthiness. For example, we might trust information from published research articles more than information from blogs because we know that anyone can write a blog, but scientists (experts) who write peer-reviewed articles are highly trained. With regards to trustworthiness, adults are less likely to believe someone who they think is trying to deceive them, and they take into account the intentions of the information-provider. For example, if someone's intention is to sell you something, you might be more skeptical of the accuracy of the information they provide because their motives cause you to question their honesty. Adults can effectively use these cues to make judgments about the credibility of different sources, but whether children can also do so is an important area for research.\n\nEven very young children show an early sensitivity to issues of source credibility. By the age of 4, children show similar patterns to adults in a preference for perception over testimony; that is, they would rather see something with their own eyes than be told about it. Children also feel more confident in their knowledge when they have directly perceived it than if they have been told by someone else, even if the speaker is well informed. However, children are not always able to directly perceive information, and they learn much of what they know from others. Some people are more credible sources of information than others, so children must actively evaluate information and decide whether or not to believe it. There are many factors or cues that children, by the age of 4, take into consideration when making judgements about whether or not to trust what a person says. For instance, knowledge and experience, traits, motivations, age, and reasoning or support.\n\nYoung children have a reputation for credulity, or believing something without having any proof that it is true. Young children often trust what adults tell them, especially when they have no prior knowledge or expectations about the topic of the testimony. Because children tend to interact with adults who are more knowledgeable than themselves, if they have no reason to believe otherwise, they will trust what adults tell them. In particular, 3 year-olds tendency to believe others is based on a selective bias to trust what people tell them. This selective trust is adaptive in the early years as they are learning language and their way around the world.\n\nChildren have difficulty disregarding information provided to them, even if the source has been unreliable in the past. 3 year-olds will often continue to believe what a person tells them even after being repeatedly deceived by that person, but 4 year-olds are far better able to disregard this unreliable information. Three-year-olds are better at making trust judgments when they are able to choose between two sources of knowledge, rather than deciding whether or not to believe a single person, and in this situation they are often able to choose the more reliable of two speakers. By age 4, young children take an informant's knowledge, expertise, and reliability into account in order to avoid learning from unreliable or problematic sources. They believe statements made by knowledgeable speakers more than ignorant speakers, before they can explicitly answer questions about who has access to knowledge. They also prefer to seek information from sources who have been knowledgeable in the past. 4 year-olds can spontaneously use others' past performance to guide their learning.\n\nAlmost all human institutions (e.g., family, community, business, government) are built on a foundation of trust. There are many factors that influence children's trust in people and one of the most important is honesty. There are various schools of philosophical thought that posits honesty to be morally right and lying to be morally wrong. On one end of the continuum, philosophers like Bok, Kant, and St. Augustine hold a deontological view that focuses on intrinsic duties relating to the treatment of others. In other words, telling the truth is intrinsically right and lying is intrinsically wrong. On the other end of the continuum is the utilitarian view that emphasizes the greater good, specifically with respect to the outcome of one's act. Therefore, lying and its moral implications are context dependent. In some situations, such as when being polite to spare another person's feelings, making a \"prosocial lie\" or deliberate false statement are endorsed.\n\nChildren consider motivation, as well as traits, when deciding who to seek information from and who to believe. In both Eastern and Western cultures, both adults and children adhere to the utilitarian perspective when giving moral evaluations of truths and lies in different social situations. In terms of people's characteristics, children tend to place trust in people who are honest, smart, or kind over people who are dishonest, not smart, or not kind. However, they also consider a person's intent or motivation. From age 7, children consider both honesty and benevolence when making trust judgments about other people, and older children are more likely to trust people who tell prosocial lies (to avoid hurting another person's feelings or to help another person) than young children. For younger children, honesty is more important than a person's intention. As children get older, they increasingly attend to motivation as a key factor. The relationship between telling the truth and trusting a person is stable, but when it comes to lying, children consider the motivation of the speaker when deciding whether or not to trust them.\n\nChildren evaluate the credibility of a speaker by evaluating how reliable that person has been in the past and can make predictions about a speaker based on their age. Children as young as 3 years-old prefer to trust an unfamiliar adult rather than an unfamiliar child. When considering both age and reliability, age is often the primary cue used to determine another's credibility. For example, 3 and 4 year-olds found adults to be more trustworthy than peers, unless the peer demonstrated greater reliability (i.e., adult incorrectly mislabelled objects, whereas peer correctly labelled them). Children also consider both the prior history of accuracy and the level of perceptual access the speaker has when they provide information. Young children spontaneously keep track of the prior history of a person's accuracy or inaccuracy (reliability) and prefer to learn from someone with a good track record. Children commonly interpret the speaker's history of inaccuracy as a lasting trait and so the speaker is considered an unreliable informant, at least within the domain they have been wrong about. However, under certain conditions, children may excuse a person's past inaccuracy and later trust that person for information. If a speaker has limited information (e.g., lack of perceptual access) in making a claim – for example, inaccurately identifying a toy while blindfolded – then children as young as 3 years-old appropriately excuse their past inaccuracy especially when they are later well-informed. On the other hand, if a speaker has full access to information while making an inaccurate claim, children continue to regard him/her as unreliable.\n\nYoung children appreciate that people generally think and act sensibly when reasons are present, and they can evaluate a claim by assessing the quality of the reasoning provided. Thus, children create an epistemic profile of a person based on the quality of the reasons they offer when making a claim. As young as 3 years-old, children understand the difference between weak versus strong reasoning to support a statement. Children are more likely to trust someone when strong support is provided through: reliable testimony (\"My teacher told me there's a book in the bag. I think that there's a book\"), looking (\"Before I came here, I looked and saw a ball in the bag. I think there's a ball in there\"), and inference (\"It's a backpack. Backpack holds books. I think there's a book in there\"). On the other hand, desire (\"I like crayons. I want there to be crayons in the bag. I think that there are crayons in there\"), pretense (\"I like to pretend. I'm going to pretend that there's a sandwich in the bag. I think there's a sandwich in there\"), and guessing (\"I don't know. I'm going to guess that there's a toy in the bag\") are not viewed as strong support for a claim. Children recognize that the mental states that they and others may hold are not always reliable means for drawing specific conclusions. 3 and 4 year-olds can also choose the more reasonable of two people and continue to seek, as well as, accept new information from the more credible person (the one who had better reasons in the past).\n\nPeople are not always reliable in their provision of information and it is important to be able to differentiate between good sources and bad sources. Assessing someone's reliability is based not only on the knowledgeability of the speaker, but their motives/intentions as well. People may not always be motivated to tell the truth; instead, they may potentially lie to promote their own interest, or the interest of others. At about the age they begin preschool, children become better at distinguishing between helpful and deceptive people. 3 year-olds are not able to identify who is trying to help or trick another person and accept advice from both helpers and trickers. On the other hand, 4 year-olds are more sceptical and could differentiate between helpers and trickers, but have no preference in choosing whom to accept advice from. There may be a mismatch between knowledge and behaviour among 4 year-olds, in which they do not understand the implications of their knowledge or how to successfully apply it to their behaviour. 5 year-olds systematically preferred advice from helpers. Ultimately theory of mind, or children's understanding of mental states, is related to selective trust in helpers (versus trickers). Beginning at 5 years-old, children use a person's prior history of deception to make reliability judgments about that person.\n\nMetacognition is an ability that allows people to think about their own thinking process, and how to use their thinking process to help themselves learn better. Metacognition includes two separate abilities: (1) knowledge of cognition and (2) regulation of cognition. Knowledge of one's thinking process is not enough to regulate an individual's behaviour, and are required to use specific strategies to help them regulate their behaviour.\n\nAn important skill children need to learn is being able to identify when a message is incomplete and they don't have enough information to make an accurate interpretation. Being aware that an ambiguous situation has arisen is difficult for young children. Children accurately \"know when they know\", but often overestimate when they don't know. Children's behaviour does not seem to match their verbal ability to acknowledge their \"lack of knowledge\". Despite incorrectly stating that they \"know\" something, children are still capable of changing their response upon hearing contradicting information to an initial interpretation and/or event. Language plays an important role in children's accuracy in assessing their own knowledge. For children to accurately \"know what they know\" it is important for them to understand the various meanings of the word \"know\" as well as language used to describe certainty and uncertainty.\n\nAmbiguous information is \"a piece of information (word, message, or view) with multiple interpretations\". Adults not only have the awareness to realize when ambiguity exists, but they also have strategies to deal with ambiguous input. Young children have difficulty with recognizing ambiguity and understanding how to handle it. Typically, it is not until the age of 6 or 7 that children have the ability to successfully deal with ambiguous input. However, it seems in certain contexts with certain tasks, younger children also display some ability to deal with ambiguous information.\n\nLanguage can play an important role in the ability to correctly decipher ambiguous input. One can \"know\" someone in many different ways, for example, seeing them, talking to them, having a prior history with them, etc. This makes questions like \"Do you know?\" very complicated and difficult to respond to. More explicit definitions of \"to know\" seem to assist children in better assessing their own knowledge. Children as young as 4 years were able to make far more accurate statements about their actual knowledge when a question was phrased \"Have you \"heard of\"\" rather than \"Do you \"know\"\". By the age of 6, children are typically able to accurately assess their knowledge with very little impact on their future behaviours regardless of the language used. 4-5 year-old's, on the other hand, were so susceptible to change that the phrase used altered their response to future questions. 4-5 year-old's were also less likely to overestimate their knowledge of a target person if the initial question was phrased \"Have you \"heard of\"\" rather than \"Do you \"know\"\". Not only can responses from children be altered by the phrasing of the question, but the suggestion of lack of prior experience with the target is enough for children to change their response. In a study where children were asked if they really knew who a specific person was (between 2 pictures of people they had never seen before), they were more accurate in assessing that they \"didn't know\" when it was suggested that the target person had never been to the child's city before. While experience is important, children tend not to over-rely on prior experiences and only use it when they've had significant experience that would actually assist them in assessing their knowledge.\n\nSometimes when confronted with ambiguous information, more than one piece of information is required to make and accurate interpretation. For example, in a study where children had to pick one of four pictures presented to them after hearing ambiguous information, they were capable of making tentative interpretations and then correctly changing their interpretations upon hearing contradicting, clarifying information. This strategy uses multiple pieces of information and has been seen in children as young as 15 months old. In situations where only partial information is available, young children make the best interpretation possible with the information given and go on to change this interpretation only when contradicting information emerges.\n\nThe presentation of clarifying information is not always immediately accessible. In these situations, adults seem to delay interpretation and seek clarifying information when appropriate. Even more difficult than acknowledging that an ambiguous situation has arisen, is children's understanding in what actions they need to take for clarification. There are 2 different types of delay in interpreting ambiguous information: one that is intentional and one that is instinctual. The explicit decision to delay interpretation and seek further information is a difficult one as it involves being aware that the current information is not sufficient, and knowing how to acquire appropriate information necessary for clarification. Children are typically not successful in this process until the age of 7. However, when this explicit decision to delay is simplified, children aged 5 and up showed some ability in successfully choosing to delay their response. While the ability for intentionally delaying interpretation seems to be difficult, the ability to delay interpretation instinctively seems to be easier for young children. In one example, children were asked to stamp the correct snowman once they knew which one it was. Their knowledge of the correct snowman was based on a researcher slowly revealing the target snowman. The children's cards contained snowmen that differed by some feature visible on the 2nd half of the snowman only and therefore the children were required to wait until the 2nd half of the snowman was revealed in order to accurately assess which snowman was the correct one. In this scenario focusing on instinct, children as young as 5 were able to accurately delay interpretation. Therefore, while it is difficult for children to explicitly demonstrate their awareness of an ambiguous situation and how to resolve it, they are implicitly able to handle situations in which delaying interpretation may be beneficial.\n\nIt is difficult for younger children to grasp the idea that objects can be referred to in different ways and that people can have partial knowledge of the different references (i.e. a \"bouncy ball\" might also be referred to as a \"rubber sphere\"). A child might know by looking that a toy is a toy truck, but they may not be aware that the toy truck is also a present. Referential opacity is the concept of whether or not referring to an object changes its meaning. If something is referentially \"transparent\" (substitution insensitive), altering the referent term does not alter the meaning, and something that is referentially \"opaque\" (substitution sensitive) means that altering the referent term would alter the meaning. An example of this is a study with a puppet named Heinz. There is a ball in a box and children are told that Heinz knows that there is a ball in the box but does not know that the ball is a present. Children are then asked substitution-insensitive questions (i.e. Does Heinz know the ball is a present? – asking, \"Does Heinz know the rubber sphere is a present?\" \"does not\" alter the meaning of the question) and substitution sensitive questions (i.e. Does Heinz know there's a present in the box? – asking \"Does Heinz know there is a rubber sphere in the box\" \"does\" alter the meaning of the question). Regardless of age, substitution-\"insensitive\" questions seem to be easier than substitution-\"sensitive\" questions. The ability to correctly answer substitution-sensitive questions improves with age. The ability to answer these types of questions is closely related to effectively evaluating ambiguous messages. Success on substitution-insensitive questions is necessary but not sufficient for success on evaluation ambiguous messages. Alternatively, success on substitution-sensitive questions is necessary and sufficient for success at evaluating ambiguous messages.\n\nChildren can change their interpretation of information based on the context in which the interpretation is made. Robinson and colleagues (2006) studied children's interpretation of information in two different: physical and epistemic uncertainty. Physical uncertainty occurs when an event has not yet happened, and therefore the outcome of that event has not been determined (i.e. the dice has not yet been rolled). Epistemic uncertainty occurs when an event has already occurred, but the child is not aware of the outcome of the event (i.e. the dice have been rolled, but the dice are hidden from the participant). 4 to 8 year old children have the ability to realize multiple possibilities for an event that has not yet occurred (\"physical uncertainty\"), however they do not seem to acknowledge that there are exactly the same possibilities for an event that has already happened when they don't know the outcome (\"epistemic uncertainty\"). Under the conditions of \"epistemic uncertainty\", children simply guess one of the possibilities. Beck and colleagues (2011) propose that this happens because it is much easier to imagine the outcome during epistemic uncertainty, basically knowing that there is only one outcome. Similarly, adults also prefer to make predictions or guess in epistemic uncertainty.\n\nFeeling-of-knowing occurs when people are unable to easily recall a memory or a fact, but they know that they learned it and are able to recognize it, such as in a multiple-choice test. Adults' accuracy of feeling-of-knowing judgments is well above chance but not nearly perfect. It seems to be the same for children as well. Lockl and Schneider (2002) did not find any developmental trends in the accuracy of feeling-of-knowing judgments. Instead, similar to adults, children's accuracy of feeling-of knowing judgments was low, but still above chance for all age groups studied (grade 1 through grade 4). Getting a child to attend to this feeling-of-knowing (through language or prompting of prior experience) is one way to assist them in more accurately assessing their actual knowledge, allowing them to handle ambiguous situations at a much younger age.\n\nChildren are highly susceptible to a \"suggestibility effect\", producing \"false memories\" and/or \"incorrect, post-event information\" (see misinformation effect) when asked to engage in memory recall. This has important implications for forensic interviewing and child witness testimony. Consider the prominent case of Kelly Michael's (see Wee Care Nursery School abuse trial), where improper interviewing techniques lead to a miscarriage of justice. In order to develop reliable and age-appropriate instruments for interviewing children, it is imperative to consider their cognitive development, verbal and mental abilities.\n\nIt is critical for a forensic interviewer to recognize their power during an interview, especially with a child witness. An interviewer can impact the course of a child's testimony in numerous ways, including:\n\nThe age of a child is also an important factor during interviewing. Younger children are more likely to provide shorter, less detailed accounts of an event in comparison to older children. Preschool children are more likely to disclose information in an \"accidental way\" through triggers and obvious cues, whereas older school children are more likely to make \"intentional disclosures\" based on the nature of the question they are asked.\n\nThere are varying techniques and extraneous factors that can influence the way a child discloses an event during child witness testimony (e.g., experiences of abuse by a parent or caregiver). There are two major types of barriers in forensic interviews: (1) improper interviewing and (2) clumsy interviewing\n\n\"Improper interviewing\" includes forensic techniques that are considered to be \"risky and ineffective\". Each of the following techniques can create critically negative consequences in witness testimony and result in false allegations or the potential for a reduced conviction:\n\n\"Clumsy interviewing\" involves interviews that fail to include best practices and recommended techniques. Interviewers who are not properly trained in forensic techniques can fail to follow structured interview guidelines and impact the outcome of a child's testimony and/or responses to questioning. This type of interviewing most often occurs when an interviewer lacks skill, forgets important procedures, and when there is a lack of necessary supervision.\n\nIn order to prevent improper forensic interviewing, numerous methods to reduce suggestibility and the misinformation effect have been proven effective, including: taping interviews, recording transcripts, ensuring supervision by a qualified professional, experience in working with children, training in forensic interviewing, and maintaining a comfortable, safe environment.\n\nThe cognitive interview utilizes cognitive theory as a focal point in its interview methodology. The cognitive interview, first developed in 1992 by researchers Fisher and Geiselman, was originally developed for adults and later modified for children. It utilizes two major perspectives from cognitive theory, including the \"encoding specificity principle\" and a \"multi-component view of memory traces\".\n\nSpecifically, this method utilizes four major techniques:\n\nThe National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) Protocol\ndeveloped an investigative protocol in 2000 to create a structured interview technique for children, specifically those of child sexual abuse.\n\nIt uses the following techniques:\n\nStepwise interview\nutilizes open-ended questions through a \"funnel-like strategy\". It is primarily used by legal professionals, and is most often used in North America. This interview begins with open-ended questions and/or free recall and slowly incorporates more focused and detailed questions.\n\nAllegation blind interviews\nstress that an interviewer should refrain from gathering information prior to an interview in order to reduce suggestibility and increase interviewer patience and attentiveness. This also enhances the interviewer's ability to be non-judgmental and objective.\n\nTruth-lie discussions\nare most useful prior to commencing abuse-related questioning. This method allows the interviewer to create a baseline with the child about what the \"truth\" is and what a \"lie\" is. The interviewer is encouraged to ask questions with general examples, such as \"tell me a lie about this chair\". This strategy has been proven to result in a less misinformed child testimony.\n\nTouch survey\nwas developed on the basis that \"touch falls on a continuum\", and is beneficial to screen for child abuse. It includes questions surrounding the child's experiences with touch (e.g., kissing, hugging, hitting), including where they have been touched and by whom. This tool might be more useful when used in conjunction with other forensic strategies.\n\nAlthough there are varying suggestions for structured forensic interviewing, experts provide context into best practices that can significantly reduce suggestibility, false memories and the misinformation effect:\n\n"}
{"id": "41675819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41675819", "title": "Colin Radford", "text": "Colin Radford\n\nColin John Radford (27 February 1935 – 9 April 2001) was an English philosopher who worked primarily in aesthetics but had interests in a wide variety of philosophical topics. He is best known for describing the paradox of fiction in the 1975 essay \"How Can We Be Moved by the Fate of Anna Karenina?\" and developing the paradox in a number of subsequent essays.\n\nRadford was a pupil at Thornbury Grammar School, then studied at London School of Economics and the University of Bristol. He studied for a doctorate under Gilbert Ryle at Oxford before taking a position at the University of Kent, where he taught until his retirement in 1992. He was a visiting lecturer at the University of California , Berkeley, the University of Illinois, and Queensland University.\n\n"}
{"id": "1695199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1695199", "title": "Cruden's Concordance", "text": "Cruden's Concordance\n\nA Complete Concordance to the Holy Scriptures, generally known as Cruden's Concordance, is a concordance of the King James Bible (KJV) that was singlehandedly created by Alexander Cruden (1699–1770). The \"Concordance\" was first published in 1737 and has not been out of print since then.\nTwo editions of the \"Concordance\" appeared during his lifetime, 1761 and 1769.\nCruden's concordance was first published in 1737, one of the first copies being personally presented to Queen Caroline on November 3, 1737. Cruden began work on his concordance in 1735 whilst a bookseller in London. Cruden worked alone from 7am to 1am every day and completed the bulk of the work in less than a year. The proofreading and layout took a little longer. His brain was occupied with nothing else, so much so that he failed to notice the diminishing stock in his bookshop and the consequent lack of custom. \"Was there ever, before or since the year 1737\", writes his biographer Edith Olivier, \"another enthusiast for whom it was no drudgery, but a sustained passion of delight, to creep conscientiously word by word through every chapter of the Bible, and that not once only, but again and again?\".\n\nAlthough a remarkable feat, the concordance was not entirely without error. The Times recorded that Cruden left out Buz (brother of Huz) and Sneeze (put under Neeze). In fact, the name \"Chloe\" was missing until a revised edition was published in 1930.\n\n"}
{"id": "1631852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1631852", "title": "Denial", "text": "Denial\n\nDenial, in ordinary English usage, is asserting that a statement or allegation is not true. The same word, and also abnegation (), is used for a psychological defense mechanism postulated by psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud, in which a person is faced with a fact that is too uncomfortable to accept and rejects it instead, insisting that it is not true despite what may be overwhelming evidence. An individual that exhibits such behavior is described as a denialist or true believer. Denial also could mean denying the happening of an event or the reliability of information, which can lead to a feeling of aloofness and to the ignoring of possibly beneficial information. \n\nThe subject may use:\n\nThe concept of denial is particularly important to the study of addiction.\n\nThe theory of denial was first researched seriously by Anna Freud. She classified denial as a mechanism of the immature mind, because it conflicts with the ability to learn from and cope with reality. Where denial occurs in mature minds, it is most often associated with death, dying and rape. More recent research has significantly expanded the scope and utility of the concept. Elisabeth Kübler-Ross used denial as the first of five stages in the psychology of a dying patient, and the idea has been extended to include the reactions of survivors to news of a death.\n\nMany contemporary psychoanalysts treat denial as the first stage of a coping cycle. When an unwelcome change occurs, a trauma of some sort, the first impulse to disbelieve begins the process of coping. That denial, in a healthy mind, slowly rises to greater consciousness. Gradually becoming a subconscious pressure, just beneath the surface of overt awareness, the mechanism of coping then involves repression, while the person accumulates the emotional resources to fully face the trauma. Once faced, the person deals with the trauma in a stage alternately called acceptance or enlightenment, depending on the scope of the issue and the therapist's school of thought. After this stage, once sufficiently dealt with, or dealt with for the time being, the trauma must sink away from total conscious awareness again. Left out of the conscious mind, the process of sublimation involves a balance of neither quite forgetting nor quite remembering. This allows the trauma to re-emerge in consciousness if it involves an ongoing process such as a protracted illness. Alternately, sublimation may begin the full resolution process, where the trauma finally sinks away into eventual forgetfulness. Occasionally this entire cycle has been referred to in modern parlance as \"denial\", confusing the full cycle with only one stage of it. To further muddy discourse, the terms \"denial\" and \"cycle of denial\" sometimes get used to refer to an unhealthy, dysfunctional cycle of unresolved coping, particularly with regard to addiction and compulsion.\n\nUnlike some other defense mechanisms postulated by psychoanalytic theory (for instance, repression), the general existence of denial is fairly easy to verify, even for non-specialists. However, denial is one of the most controversial defense mechanisms, since it can be easily used to create unfalsifiable theories: anything the subject says or does that appears to disprove the interpreter's theory is explained, not as evidence that the interpreter's theory is wrong, but as the subject's being \"in denial\". However, researchers note that in some cases of corroborated child sexual abuse, the victims sometimes make a series of partial confessions and recantations as they struggle with their own denial and the denial of abusers or family members. Use of denial theory in a legal setting, therefore, is carefully regulated and experts' credentials verified. \"Formulaic guilt\" simply by \"being a denier\" has been castigated by English judges and academics. The main objection is that denial theory is founded on the premise that that which the supposed denier is denying is truth. This usurps the judge (and jury) as triers of fact.\n\nWhat makes denial denial and not just a refusal to admit to or accept a truth or fact rests in the degree of an individual's awareness of the existence of the truth or fact. In denial, an individual does not see or is mostly unconscious of existence of the truth or fact. The choice to refuse reality, then, is unconscious as well. Refusal to admit to or accept a truth or fact differs from denial in that the individual recognizes or is conscious of the existence of the truth or fact but consciously refuses to accept it as such.\nFreud employs the term ' (usually translated either as \"disavowal\" or as \"denial\") as distinct from ' (usually translated as \"denial\" or as \"abnegation\"). In \"Verleugnung\", the defense consists of denying something that affects the individual and is a way of affirming what he or she is apparently denying. For Freud, \"Verleugnung\" is related to psychoses, whereas \"Verdrängung\" is a neurotic defense mechanism. Freud broadened his clinical work on disavowal beyond the realm of psychosis. In \"Fetishism\" (1927), he reported a case of two young men each of whom denied the death of his father. Freud notes that neither of them developed a psychosis, even though \"a piece of reality which was undoubtedly important has been disavowed [\"verleugnet\"], just as the unwelcome fact of women's castration is disavowed in fetishists.\"\n\nThe concept of denial is important in twelve-step programs, where the abandonment or reversal of denial forms the basis of the first, fourth, fifth, eighth and tenth steps. The ability to deny or minimize is an essential part of what enables an addict to continue his or her behavior despite evidence that—to an outsider—appears overwhelming. This is cited as one of the reasons that compulsion is seldom effective in treating addiction—the habit of denial remains.\n\nUnderstanding and avoiding denial is also important in the treatment of various diseases. The American Heart Association cites denial as a principal reason that treatment of a heart attack is delayed. Because the symptoms are so varied, and often have other potential explanations, the opportunity exists for the patient to deny the emergency, often with fatal consequences. It is common for patients to delay mammograms or other tests because of a fear of cancer, even though this is clearly maladaptive. It is the responsibility of the care team, and of the nursing staff in particular, to train at-risk patients to avoid this behavior.\n\nIn this form of denial, someone avoids a fact by utilizing deception. This lying can take the form of an outright falsehood (commission), leaving out certain details to tailor a story (omission), or by falsely agreeing to something (assent). Someone who is in denial of fact is typically using lies to avoid facts they think may be painful to themselves or others.\n\nThis form of denial involves avoiding personal responsibility by:\n\nSomeone using denial of responsibility is usually attempting to avoid potential harm or pain by shifting attention away from themselves.\n\nDenial of impact involves a person's avoiding thinking about or understanding the harms of his or her behavior has caused to self or others, i.e. denial of consequences. Doing this enables that person to avoid feeling a sense of guilt and it can prevent him or her from developing remorse or empathy for others. Denial of impact reduces or eliminates a sense of pain or harm from poor decisions.\n\nMany who use this type of denial will say things such as, \"it just happened\". Denial of cycle is where a person avoids looking at their decisions leading up to an event or does not consider their pattern of decision making and how harmful behavior is repeated. The pain and harm being avoided by this type of denial is more of the effort needed to change the focus from a singular event to looking at preceding events. It can also serve as a way to blame or justify behavior (see above).\n\nThis form of denial attempts to divert pain by claiming that the level of awareness was inhibited by some mitigating variable. This is most typically seen in addiction situations where drug or alcohol abuse is a factor, though it also occasionally manifests itself in relation to mental health issues or the pharmaceutical substances used to treat mental health issues. This form of denial may also overlap with denial of responsibility.\n\nThis can be a difficult concept for many people to identify with in themselves, but is a major barrier to changing hurtful behaviors. Denial of denial involves thoughts, actions and behaviors which bolster confidence that nothing needs to be changed in one's personal behavior. This form of denial typically overlaps with all of the other forms of denial, but involves more self-delusion. Denial at this level can have significant consequences both personally and at a societal level.\n\nHarassment covers a wide range of offensive behaviour. It is commonly understood as behaviour intended to disturb or upset. In the legal sense, it is behaviour which \"is\" found threatening or disturbing.\n\n\"DARVO\" is an acronym used to describe a common strategy of abusers: deny the abuse, then attack the victim for attempting to make them accountable for their offense, thereby reversing victim and offender. This may involve gaslighting and victim blaming.\n\nPsychologist Jennifer Freyd writes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39778022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39778022", "title": "Dictionary and Glossary of the Koran", "text": "Dictionary and Glossary of the Koran\n\nA Dictionary and Glossary of the Koran, was first published in 1873 by John Penrice. it is a small compact reference guide consisting of 180 pages. It contains detailed entries on parts of speech and the meanings of words of the Quran. It is supposed to be an authoritative work of its kind. It has, at places, explained the Islamic tenets and article of worship also, to make the text comprehensive. Nothing further could be known about the author John Penrice except that he was the author of \"A Dictionary and Glossary of the Koran\". The book has been repeatedly published since its first publication in 1873. This edition is published by \"Library of Islam, Kazi Publications\" (1988).\n"}
{"id": "47620302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47620302", "title": "Diego Bubbio", "text": "Diego Bubbio\n\nPaolo Diego Bubbio (born 1974) is Associate Professor of Philosophy at Western Sydney University. He is known for his research on post-Kantian philosophy, hermeneutics and philosophy of religion.\nHe received his PhD in philosophy from the University of Turin.\n\nBubbio focuses on perspectivism (the belief that there is no underlying “true” reality which exists independently of the activity of the cognitive agent) as the fundamental feature of the post-Kantian philosophy. He argues that based on this perspectivism, the religious claims are removed from the realm of theoretical reason and only have symbolic and regulative meaning. Bubbio believes that the issues regarding the theoretical content of religion do not properly belong to philosophy of religion.\n\nAnalyzing Hegel's conception of God, Bubbio thinks that content can be restored to religion, only to the extent that God is understood in God’s relation to human beings, and human beings are understood in their relation to God. Therefore the Hegelian God can be an answer to the challenge of how to conceive the mind-world relation without setting mind over and against the world and it can be a way of overcoming subjectivism in both philosophy and religion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "84199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84199", "title": "Dietrich Bonhoeffer", "text": "Dietrich Bonhoeffer\n\nDietrich Bonhoeffer (; 4 February 1906 – 9 April 1945) was a German pastor, theologian, anti-Nazi dissident, and key founding member of the Confessing Church. His writings on Christianity's role in the secular world have become widely influential, and his book \"The Cost of Discipleship\" has been described as a modern classic.\n\nApart from his theological writings, Bonhoeffer was known for his staunch resistance to Nazi dictatorship, including vocal opposition to Hitler's euthanasia program and genocidal persecution of the Jews. He was arrested in April 1943 by the Gestapo and imprisoned at Tegel prison for one and a half years. Later, he was transferred to a Nazi concentration camp. After being accused of being associated with the July 20 plot to assassinate Adolf Hitler, he was quickly tried, along with other accused plotters, including former members of the \"Abwehr\" (the German Military Intelligence Office), and then executed by hanging on 9 April 1945 as the Nazi regime was collapsing.\n\nDietrich Bonhoeffer was born on 4 February 1906 in Breslau, Germany into a large family. In addition to his other siblings, Dietrich had a twin sister, Sabine Bonhoeffer Leibholz: he and Sabine were the fifth and sixth children out of seven. His father was psychiatrist and neurologist Karl Bonhoeffer, noted for his criticism of Sigmund Freud, and his mother Paula Bonhoeffer, née von Hase, was a teacher and the granddaughter of Protestant theologian Karl von Hase and painter Stanislaus Kalckreuth. His oldest brother Karl Friedrich Bonhoeffer became a chemist, and, along with Paul Harteck, discovered the spin isomers of hydrogen in 1929. Walter Bonhoeffer, the second born of the Bonhoeffer family, was killed in action during World War I, when the twins were 12. The third Bonhoeffer child, Klaus, was a lawyer until he was executed for his involvement in the 20 July plot. Both of Bonhoeffer's older sisters, Ursula Bonhoeffer Schleicher and Christel Bonhoeffer von Dohnanyi, married men who were eventually executed by the Nazis. Christel was imprisoned by the Nazis but survived. Sabine and their youngest sister Susanne Bonhoeffer Dress each married men who survived Nazism. His cousin Karl-Günther von Hase was the German Ambassador to the United Kingdom from 1970 to 1977.\n\nBonhoeffer completed his \"Staatsexamen\", the equivalent of both a bachelor's degree and a master's degree, at the Protestant Faculty of Theology of the University of Tübingen. He went on to complete his Doctor of Theology degree (Dr. theol.) from Berlin University in 1927, graduating \"summa cum laude\".\n\nStill too young to be ordained, at the age of twenty-four Bonhoeffer went to the United States in 1930 for postgraduate study and a teaching fellowship at New York City's Union Theological Seminary. Although Bonhoeffer found the American seminary not up to his exacting German standards (\"There is no theology here.\"), he had life-changing experiences and friendships. He studied under Reinhold Niebuhr and met Frank Fisher, a black fellow-seminarian who introduced him to Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, where Bonhoeffer taught Sunday school and formed a lifelong love for African-American spirituals, a collection of which he took back to Germany. He heard Adam Clayton Powell, Sr., preach the Gospel of Social Justice, and became sensitive to not only social injustices experienced by minorities, but also the ineptitude of the church to bring about integration. Bonhoeffer began to see things \"from below\"—from the perspective of those who suffer oppression. He observed, \"Here one can truly speak and hear about sin and grace and the love of God...the Black Christ is preached with rapturous passion and vision.\" Later Bonhoeffer referred to his impressions abroad as the point at which he \"turned from phraseology to reality.\" He also learned to drive an automobile, although he failed the driving test three times.\n\nAfter returning to Germany in 1931, Bonhoeffer became a lecturer in systematic theology at the University of Berlin. Deeply interested in ecumenism, he was appointed by the World Alliance for Promoting International Friendship through the Churches (a forerunner of the World Council of Churches) as one of its three European youth secretaries. At this time he seems to have undergone something of a personal conversion from being a theologian primarily attracted to the intellectual side of Christianity to being a dedicated man of faith, resolved to carry out the teaching of Christ as he found it revealed in the Gospels. On 15 November 1931—at the age of 25—he was ordained at the Old-Prussian United St. Matthew's Church () in Berlin.\n\nBonhoeffer's promising academic and ecclesiastical career was dramatically altered with the Nazi ascension to power on 30 January 1933. He was a determined opponent of the regime from its first days. Two days after Hitler was installed as Chancellor, Bonhoeffer delivered a radio address in which he attacked Hitler and warned Germany against slipping into an idolatrous cult of the \"Führer\" (leader), who could very well turn out to be \"Verführer\" (mis-leader, or seducer). He was cut off the air in the middle of a sentence, though it is unclear whether the newly elected Nazi regime was responsible. In April 1933, Bonhoeffer raised the first voice for church resistance to Hitler's persecution of Jews, declaring that the church must not simply \"bandage the victims under the wheel, but jam the spoke in the wheel itself.\"\n\nIn November 1932, two months before the Nazi takeover, there had been an election for presbyters and synodals (church officials) of the German \"Landeskirche\" (Protestant established churches). This election was marked by a struggle within the Old-Prussian Union Evangelical Church between the nationalistic German Christian (Deutsche Christen) movement and Young Reformers—a struggle which threatened to explode into schism. In July 1933, Hitler unconstitutionally imposed new church elections. Bonhoeffer put all his efforts into the election, campaigning for the selection of independent, non-Nazi officials.\n\nDespite Bonhoeffer's efforts, in the rigged July election an overwhelming number of key church positions went to Nazi-supported Deutsche Christen people. The Deutsche Christen won a majority in the general synod of the Old-Prussian Union Evangelical Church and all its provincial synods except Westphalia, and in synods of all other Protestant church bodies, except for the Lutheran churches of Bavaria, Hanover, and Württemberg. The non-Nazi opposition regarded these bodies as uncorrupted \"intact churches,\" as opposed to the other so-called \"destroyed churches.\"\n\nIn opposition to Nazification, Bonhoeffer urged an interdict upon all pastoral services (baptisms, weddings, funerals, etc.), but Karl Barth and others advised against such a radical proposal. In August 1933, Bonhoeffer and Hermann Sasse were deputized by opposition church leaders to draft the Bethel Confession, a new statement of faith in opposition to the Deutsche Christen movement. Notable for affirming God's faithfulness to Jews as His chosen people, the Bethel Confession was so watered down to make it more palatable that Bonhoeffer ultimately refused to sign it.\n\nIn September 1933, the national church synod at Wittenberg voluntarily passed a resolution to apply the Aryan paragraph within the church, meaning that pastors and church officials of Jewish descent were to be removed from their posts. Regarding this as an affront to the principle of baptism, Martin Niemöller founded the \"Pfarrernotbund\" (Pastors' Emergency League). In November, a rally of 20,000 Deutsche Christens demanded the removal of the Old Testament from the Bible, which was seen by many as heresy, further swelling the ranks of the Emergency League.\n\nWithin weeks of its founding, more than a third of German pastors had joined the Emergency League. It was the forerunner of the \"Bekennende Kirche\" (Confessing Church), which aimed to preserve traditional Christian beliefs and practices. The Barmen Declaration, drafted by Barth in May 1934 and adopted by the Confessing Church, insisted that Christ, not the Führer, was the head of the church. The adoption of the declaration has often been viewed as a triumph, although by 's estimate, only 20% of German pastors were supporting the Confessing Church.\n\nWhen Bonhoeffer was offered a parish post in eastern Berlin in the autumn of 1933, he refused it in protest of the nationalist policy, and accepted a two-year appointment as a pastor of two German-speaking Protestant churches in London: the German Lutheran Church in Dacres Road, Sydenham. and the German Reformed Church of St Paul's, Goulston Street, Whitechapel. He explained to Barth that he had found little support for his views—even among friends—and that \"it was about time to go for a while into the desert,\" Barth regarded this as running away from real battle. He sharply rebuked Bonhoeffer, saying, \"I can only reply to all the reasons and excuses which you put forward: 'And what of the German Church?'\" Barth accused Bonhoeffer of abandoning his post and wasting his \"splendid theological armory\" while \"the house of your church is on fire,\" and chided him to return to Berlin \"by the next ship.\"\n\nBonhoeffer, however, did not go to England simply to avoid trouble at home; he hoped to put the ecumenical movement to work in the interest of the Confessing Church. He continued his involvement with the Confessing Church, running up a high telephone bill to maintain his contact with Martin Niemöller. In international gatherings, Bonhoeffer rallied people to oppose the Deutsche Christen movement and its attempt to amalgamate Nazi nationalism with the Christian gospel. When Bishop —the official in charge of German Lutheran Church foreign affairs—traveled to London to warn Bonhoeffer to abstain from any ecumenical activity not directly authorized by Berlin, Bonhoeffer refused to abstain.\n\nIn 1935, Bonhoeffer was presented with a much-sought-after opportunity to study non-violent resistance under Gandhi in his ashram, but, perhaps remembering Barth's rebuke, decided to return to Germany in order to head an underground seminary in Finkenwalde for training Confessing Church pastors. As the Nazi suppression of the Confessing Church intensified, Barth was driven back to Switzerland in 1935; Niemöller was arrested in July 1937; and in August 1936, Bonhoeffer's authorization to teach at the University of Berlin was revoked after he was denounced as a \"pacifist and enemy of the state\" by Theodor Heckel.Bonhoeffer's efforts for the underground seminaries included securing necessary funds. He found a great benefactor in Ruth von Kleist-Retzow. In times of trouble, Bonhoeffer's former students and their wives would take refuge in von Kleist-Retzow's Pomeranian estate, and Bonhoeffer was a frequent guest. Later he fell in love with Kleist-Retzow's granddaughter, Maria von Wedemeyer, to whom he became engaged three months before his arrest. By August 1937, Himmler decreed the education and examination of Confessing Church ministry candidates illegal. In September 1937, the Gestapo closed the seminary at Finkenwalde, and by November arrested 27 pastors and former students. It was around this time that Bonhoeffer published his best-known book, \"The Cost of Discipleship,\" a study on the Sermon on the Mount, in which he not only attacked \"cheap grace\" as a cover for ethical laxity, but also preached \"costly grace.\"\n\nBonhoeffer spent the next two years secretly traveling from one eastern German village to another to conduct \"seminary on the run\" supervision of his students, most of whom were working illegally in small parishes within the old-Prussian Ecclesiastical Province of Pomerania. The von Blumenthal family hosted the seminary on its estate of Groß Schlönwitz. The pastors of Groß Schlönwitz and neighbouring villages supported the education by employing and housing the students (among whom was Eberhard Bethge, who later edited Bonhoeffer's \"Letters and Papers from Prison\"), as vicars in their congregations.\n\nIn 1938, the Gestapo banned Bonhoeffer from Berlin. In summer 1939, the seminary was able to move to Sigurdshof, an outlying estate (Vorwerk) of the von Kleist family in Wendish Tychow. In March 1940, the Gestapo shut down the seminary there following the outbreak of World War II. Bonhoeffer's monastic communal life and teaching at Finkenwalde seminary formed the basis of his books, \"The Cost of Discipleship\" and \"Life Together.\"\n\nBonhoeffer's sister, Sabine, along with her Jewish-classified husband Gerhard Leibholz and their two daughters, escaped to England by way of Switzerland in September 1940.\n\nIn February 1938, Bonhoeffer made an initial contact with members of the German Resistance when his brother-in-law Hans von Dohnányi introduced him to a group seeking Hitler's overthrow at Abwehr, the German military intelligence service.\n\nBonhoeffer also learned from Dohnányi that war was imminent and was particularly troubled by the prospect of being conscripted. As a committed pacifist opposed to the Nazi regime, he could never swear an oath to Hitler and fight in his army, though not to do so was potentially a capital offense. He worried also about consequences his refusing military service could have for the Confessing Church, as it was a move that would be frowned upon by most Christians and their churches at the time.\n\nIt was at this juncture that Bonhoeffer left for the United States in June 1939 at the invitation of Union Theological Seminary in New York. Amid much inner turmoil, he soon regretted his decision despite strong pressures from his friends to stay in the United States. He wrote to Reinhold Niebuhr: \"I have come to the conclusion that I made a mistake in coming to America. I must live through this difficult period in our national history with the people of Germany. I will have no right to participate in the reconstruction of Christian life in Germany after the war if I do not share the trials of this time with my people... Christians in Germany will have to face the terrible alternative of either willing the defeat of their nation in order that Christian civilization may survive or willing the victory of their nation and thereby destroying civilization. I know which of these alternatives I must choose but I cannot make that choice from security.\" He returned to Germany on the last scheduled steamer to cross the Atlantic.\n\nBack in Germany, Bonhoeffer was further harassed by the Nazi authorities as he was forbidden to speak in public and was required to regularly report his activities to the police. In 1941, he was forbidden to print or to publish. In the meantime, Bonhoeffer joined the Abwehr (a German military intelligence organization). Dohnányi, already part of the Abwehr, brought him into the organization on the claim his wide ecumenical contacts would be of use to Germany, thus protecting him from conscription to active service. Bonhoeffer presumably knew about various 1943 plots against Hitler through Dohnányi, who was actively involved in the planning. In the face of Nazi atrocities, the full scale of which Bonhoeffer learned through the Abwehr, he concluded that \"the ultimate question for a responsible man to ask is not how he is to extricate himself heroically from the affair, but how the coming generation shall continue to live.\" He did not justify his action but accepted that he was taking guilt upon himself as he wrote, \"When a man takes guilt upon himself in responsibility, he imputes his guilt to himself and no one else. He answers for it... Before other men he is justified by dire necessity; before himself he is acquitted by his conscience, but before God he hopes only for grace.\" (In a 1932 sermon, Bonhoeffer said, \"The blood of martyrs might once again be demanded, but this blood, if we really have the courage and loyalty to shed it, will not be innocent, shining like that of the first witnesses for the faith. On our blood lies heavy guilt, the guilt of the unprofitable servant who is cast into outer darkness.\")\n\nUnder cover of the Abwehr, Bonhoeffer served as a courier for the German resistance movement to reveal its existence and intentions to the Western Allies in hope of garnering their support, and, through his ecumenical contacts abroad, to secure possible peace terms with the Allies for a post-Hitler government. His visits to Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and Switzerland were camouflaged as legitimate intelligence activities for the Abwehr. In May 1942, he met Anglican Bishop George Bell of Chichester, a member of the House of Lords and an ally of the Confessing Church, contacted by Bonhoeffer's exiled brother-in-law Leibholz; through him feelers were sent to British foreign minister Anthony Eden. However, the British government ignored these, as it had all other approaches from the German resistance. Dohnányi and Bonhoeffer were also involved in Abwehr operations to help German Jews escape to Switzerland. During this time Bonhoeffer worked on \"Ethics\" and wrote letters to keep up the spirits of his former students. He intended \"Ethics\" as his \"magnum opus\", but it remained unfinished when he was arrested. On 5 April 1943, Bonhoeffer and Dohnányi were arrested and imprisoned.\n\nOn 13 January 1943, Bonhoeffer had become engaged to Maria von Wedemeyer, the granddaughter of his close friend and Finkenwalde seminary supporter, Ruth von Kleist Retzow. Ruth had campaigned for this marriage for several years, although up until late October 1942, Bonhoeffer remained a reluctant suitor despite Ruth being part of his innermost circle. A large age gap loomed between Bonhoeffer and Maria: he was 36 to her 18. The two also spent almost no time alone together prior to the engagement and did not see each other between becoming engaged and Bonhoeffer's 5 April arrest. Once he was in prison, however, Maria's status as fiancée became invaluable, as it meant she could visit Bonhoeffer and correspond with him. While their relationship was troubled, she was a source of food and smuggled messages. Bonhoeffer made Eberhard Bethge his heir, but Maria, in allowing her correspondence with Bonhoeffer to be published after her death, provided an invaluable addition to the scholarship.\n\nFor a year and a half, Bonhoeffer was imprisoned at Tegel military prison awaiting trial. There he continued his work in religious outreach among his fellow prisoners and guards. Sympathetic guards helped smuggle his letters out of prison to Eberhard Bethge and others, and these uncensored letters were posthumously published in \"Letters and Papers from Prison\". One of those guards, a corporal named Knobloch, even offered to help him escape from the prison and \"disappear\" with him, and plans were made for that end. But Bonhoeffer declined it, fearing Nazi retribution against his family, especially his brother Klaus and brother-in-law Hans von Dohnányi, who were also imprisoned.\n\nAfter the failure of the 20 July Plot on Hitler's life in 1944 and the discovery in September 1944 of secret Abwehr documents relating to the conspiracy, Bonhoeffer was accused of association with the conspirators. He was transferred from the military prison Tegel in Berlin, where he had been held for 18 months, to the detention cellar of the house prison of the Reich Security Head Office, the Gestapo's high-security prison. In February 1945, he was secretly moved to Buchenwald concentration camp, and finally to Flossenbürg concentration camp.\n\nOn 4 April 1945, the diaries of Admiral Wilhelm Canaris, head of the Abwehr, were discovered, and in a rage upon reading them, Hitler ordered that the Abwehr conspirators be destroyed. Bonhoeffer was led away just as he concluded his final Sunday service and asked an English prisoner, Payne Best, to remember him to Bishop George Bell of Chichester if he should ever reach his home: \"This is the end—for me the beginning of life.\"\n\nBonhoeffer was condemned to death on 8 April 1945 by SS judge Otto Thorbeck at a drumhead court-martial without witnesses, records of proceedings or a defense in Flossenbürg concentration camp. He was executed there by hanging at dawn on 9 April 1945, just two weeks before soldiers from the United States 90th and 97th Infantry Divisions liberated the camp, three weeks before the Soviet capture of Berlin and a month before the surrender of Nazi Germany.\n\nBonhoeffer was stripped of his clothing and led naked into the execution yard where he was hanged, along with fellow conspirators Admiral Wilhelm Canaris, Canaris's deputy General Hans Oster, military jurist General Karl Sack, General Friedrich von Rabenau, businessman Theodor Strünck, and German resistance fighter Ludwig Gehre. Bonhoeffer's brother, Klaus Bonhoeffer, and his brother-in-law, Rüdiger Schleicher, were executed in Berlin on the night of 22–23 April as Soviet troops were already fighting in the capital. His brother-in-law Hans von Dohnányi had been executed in Sachsenhausen concentration camp on 8 or 9 April.\n\nEberhard Bethge, a student and friend of Bonhoeffer's, writes of a man who saw the execution: \"I saw Pastor Bonhoeffer... kneeling on the floor praying fervently to God. I was most deeply moved by the way this lovable man prayed, so devout and so certain that God heard his prayer. At the place of execution, he again said a short prayer and then climbed the few steps to the gallows, brave and composed. His death ensued after a few seconds. In the almost fifty years that I worked as a doctor, I have hardly ever seen a man die so entirely submissive to the will of God.\"\n\nThis is the traditional account of Bonhoeffer's death, which over the decades went unchallenged. However, many recent biographers see problems with the story, not due to Bethge but his source. The purported witness was a doctor at Flossenbürg concentration camp, Hermann Fischer-Hüllstrung, who may have wished to minimize the suffering of the condemned men to reduce his own culpability in their executions. J. L. F. Mogensen, a former prisoner at Flossenbürg, cited the length of time it took for the execution to be completed (almost six hours), plus departures from camp procedure that would probably not have been allowed to prisoners so late in the war, as jarring inconsistencies. Considering that the sentences had been confirmed at the highest levels of Nazi government, by individuals with a pattern of torturing prisoners who dared to challenge the regime, it is more likely that \"the physical details of Bonhoeffer's death may have been much more difficult than we earlier had imagined.\"\n\nOther recent critics of the traditional account are more caustic. One terms the Fischer-Hüllstrung story as \"unfortunately a lie,\" citing additional factual inconsistencies; for example, the doctor described Bonhoeffer climbing the steps to the noose, but at Flossenbürg the gallows had no steps. Moreover, it appears that \"Fischer-Hüllstrung had the job of reviving political prisoners after they had been hanged until they were almost dead, in order to prolong the agony of their dying.\" Another critic charges that Fischer-Hüllstrung's \"subsequent statement about Bonhoeffer as kneeling in wordy prayer . . . belongs to the realm of legend.\"\n\nThe dispostion of Bonhoeffer's remains is not known. His body may have been cremated outside the camp along with hundreds of other recently executed or dead prisoners, or American troops may have placed his body in one of several mass graves in which they interred the unburied dead of the camp.\n\nBonhoeffer's life as a pastor and theologian of great intellect and spirituality who lived as he preached—and his being killed because of his opposition to Nazism—exerted great influence and inspiration for Christians across broad denominations and ideologies, such as Martin Luther King, Jr. and the Civil Rights Movement in the United States, the anti-communist democratic movement in Eastern Europe during the Cold War, and the anti-Apartheid movement in South Africa.\n\nBonhoeffer is commemorated in the liturgical calendars of several Christian denominations on the anniversary of his death, 9 April. This includes many parts of the Anglican Communion, where he is sometimes identified as a martyr, and other times not.\nHis commemoration in the liturgical calendar of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America uses the liturgical color of white, which is typically used for non-martyred saints.\nIn 2008, the General Conference of the United Methodist Church, which does not enumerate saints, officially recognized Bonhoeffer as a \"modern-day martyr.\" He was the first martyr to be so recognized who lived after the Reformation, and is one of only two as of 2017.\n\nThe Deutsche Evangelische Kirche in Sydenham, London, at which he preached between 1933 and 1935, was destroyed by bombing in 1944. A replacement church was built in 1958 and named \"Dietrich-Bonhoeffer-Kirche\" in his honor.\n\nOvershadowed by the dramatic events of his life, Bonhoeffer's theology has nevertheless been influential. His theology has a fragmentary, unsystematic nature, due at least in part to his untimely death, and is subject to diverse and contradictory interpretations, sometimes necessarily based on speculation and projection. So, for example, while his Christocentric approach appeals to conservative, confession-minded Protestants, his commitment to justice and ideas about \"religionless Christianity\" are emphasized by liberal Protestants.\n\nCentral to Bonhoeffer's theology is Christ, in whom God and the world are reconciled. Bonhoeffer's God is a suffering God, whose manifestation is found in this-worldliness. Bonhoeffer believed that the Incarnation of God in flesh made it unacceptable to speak of God and the world \"in terms of two spheres\"—an implicit attack upon Luther's doctrine of the two kingdoms. Bonhoeffer stressed personal and collective piety and revived the idea of imitation of Christ. He argued that Christians should not retreat from the world but act within it. He believed that two elements were constitutive of faith: the implementation of justice and the acceptance of divine suffering. Bonhoeffer insisted that the church, like the Christians, \"had to share in the sufferings of God at the hands of a godless world\" if it were to be a true church of Christ.\n\nIn his prison letters, Bonhoeffer raised tantalizing questions about the role of Christianity and the church in a \"world come of age,\" where human beings no longer need a metaphysical God as a stop-gap to human limitations; and mused about the emergence of a \"religionless Christianity,\" where God would be unclouded from metaphysical constructs of the previous 1900 years. Influenced by Barth's distinction between faith and religion, Bonhoeffer had a critical view of the phenomenon of religion and asserted that revelation abolished religion, which he called the \"garment\" of faith. Having witnessed the complete failure of the German Protestant church as an institution in the face of Nazism, he saw this challenge as an opportunity of renewal for Christianity.\n\nYears after Bonhoeffer's death, some Protestant thinkers developed his critique into a thoroughgoing attack against traditional Christianity in the \"Death of God\" movement, which briefly attracted the attention of the mainstream culture in the mid-1960s. However, some critics—such as Jacques Ellul and others—have charged that those radical interpretations of Bonhoeffer's insights amount to a grave distortion, that Bonhoeffer did not mean to say that God no longer had anything to do with humanity and had become a mere cultural artifact. More recent Bonhoeffer interpretation is more cautious in this regard, respecting the parameters of the neo-orthodox school to which he belonged. Bonhoeffer also influenced Comboni missionary Father Ezechiele Ramin.\n\nEnglish translations of Bonhoeffer's works, most of which were originally written in German, are available. Many of his lectures and books were translated into English over the years and are available from multiple publishers. These works are listed following the Fortress Press edition of Bonhoeffer's writings. The English language edition of Bonhoeffer's Works contains, in many cases, more material than the German Works series because of the discovery of hitherto unknown correspondence.\n\nAll sixteen volumes of the English Bonhoeffer Works Edition of Bonhoeffer's Oeuvre had been published by October 2013. A volume of selected readings entitled \"The Dietrich Bonhoeffer Reader\" which presents a chronological view of Bonhoeffer's theological development became available by 1 November 2013.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19169866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19169866", "title": "Disability etiquette", "text": "Disability etiquette\n\nDisability etiquette is a set of guidelines dealing specifically with how to approach a person with a disability.\n\nThere is no consensus on when this phrase first came into use, although it most likely grew out of the Disability Rights Movement that began in the early 1970s. The concept may have started as a cynical play on existing rule sheets, written for audiences without a disability, that were seen as patronizing by civil rights activists.\n\nMost disability etiquette guidelines seem to be predicated on a simple dictate: \"Do not assume ...\" They are written to address real and perceived shortcomings in how society as a whole treats disabled people.\n\nThese guidelines can be broken down into the several broad categories.\n\n\"Do not assume ...\":\n\nEach category encompasses specific \"rules.\" For example, the last two of these would include guidelines such as:\n\nPeople writing on specific disabilities have given rise to their own unique guidelines. Wheelchair users may, for example, include the rule, \"do not grab the push handles of a person's wheelchair without permission.\" Visually impaired people often list a request to, \"identify yourself when you enter a room.\"\n\nLike many other minority groups, disabled people do not always agree on what constitutes politically correct language. However, see the List of disability-related terms with negative connotations and people-first language.\n\n"}
{"id": "1276705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1276705", "title": "Eritrean People's Liberation Front", "text": "Eritrean People's Liberation Front\n\nThe Eritrean People's Liberation Front (EPLF) (, ) was an armed organization that fought for the independence of Eritrea from Ethiopia. It emerged in 1970 as an intellectual left-wing group that split from the Eritrean Liberation Front (ELF). After achieving Eritrean independence in 1991, it transformed into the People's Front for Democracy and Justice (PFDJ), which serves as Eritrea's only legal political organisation.\n\nThe EPLF was an egalitarian movement in which 30% of the fighters were women. The women fighters' influence in the patriarchal and quite conservative Eritrean society was significant.\n\nEPLF and Eritrean Liberation Front first struggled during the Eritrean Civil War. In the early 1980s, new armed conflicts between the rival Eritrean Liberation Front led to the front being marginalized and pushed into neighboring Sudan. The EPLF remained the only relevant opposition to Ethiopian occupation in Eritrea.\n\nThe EPLF captured many Ethiopian soldiers during the war for independence and kept them in numerous prisoner of war camps, although captured soldiers of the EPLF (of their own) were not afforded the same treatment. Due to the humanitarian ethic of the EPLF however, these POWs were not harmed by their captors, but instead were even educated about the principles of the EPLF, as well as global politics. Some segments of the EPLF went as far as teaching prisoners of war some trades and skills.\n\nDuring its protracted struggle the EPLF constructed an underground hospital. In these hospitals surgeries were conducted as well as the production of various pharmaceuticals (the first of its kind made by Eritreans). The front also constructed schools in the liberated areas, as well as underground and partially outdoor schools for the children of the EPLF (i.e. Winna). \nIn 1988, the EPLF started an attack from the northern province of Sahel towards the south. The EPLF emerged as the dominant rebel force as early as 1977 and continued the struggle of the Eritrean War of Independence. In 1991 the EPLF succeeded in liberating Eritrea on May 24, 1991.\n\nAdi Yakob – Embaderho front (Northern front), \nAdi Hawsha – Sela'e Da'ero front (Southern front), \nMilitary Retreat (Soviet intervention; overthrow of Ethiopian Empire by Derg),\nEla Beri'ed,\nMassawa I (Salina salt fields) 1977,\nNakfa,\nAfabet,\nMassawa II 1990,\nGinda'e front,\nDekemihare front\n\nThe First Congress of the EPLF occurred in January 1977 and formally set out the policies of this new organization. At this first meeting a Secretary-General and Assistant Secretary-General were elected and a program adopted. This program specifically targeted a liberalization of women's rights as well as a broad educational policy for maintaining every language and improving literacy. It was also set out that the boundaries of a liberated Eritrean state would be based on the colonial treaties of Italy.\n\nThe Second Congress in 1987 brought together the EPLF and the Eritrean Liberation Front/Central Leadership (also sometimes referred to as Central Command, CC) in what was called the \"Unity Congress\". This was the culmination of negotiations over three years which had brought together the two fighting forces in October 1986 under a unified command. On this congress, Isaias Afewerki replaced secretary-general Ramadan Nur. Subsequently, the movement abandoned most of its formerly Marxist–Leninist ideology, in favour of an own revolutionary left-wing concept and a more comprehensive and pragmatic approach to unite all Eritrean nationalists.\n\nThe Third and last Congress of the EPLF was held in 1994 in Asmara. It was important as it converted the Front from a military organization to a purely political movement. At this Congress, the name of the organization was changed to the People's Front for Democracy and Justice (PFDJ).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "98954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=98954", "title": "Frances Wright", "text": "Frances Wright\n\nFrances Wright (September 6, 1795 – December 13, 1852) also widely known as Fanny Wright, was a Scottish-born lecturer, writer, freethinker, feminist, abolitionist, and social reformer, who became a US citizen in 1825. The same year, she founded the Nashoba Commune in Tennessee, as a utopian community to prepare slaves for emancipation, but it lasted only five years. Her \"Views of Society and Manners in America\" (1821) brought her to public attention as a critic of the new nation.\n\nShe was one of three children born in Dundee, Scotland, to Camilla Campbell and James Wright, a wealthy linen manufacturer and political radical. Her father designed Dundee trade tokens, knew Adam Smith and corresponded with French republicans, including Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette. Both parents died young, but Fanny (as she was called as a child), orphaned at the age of three, was left a substantial inheritance. Her maternal aunt became her guardian and took Fanny to her home in England. Her guardian taught her ideas founded on the philosophy of the French materialists.\n\nAt 16, she returned to Scotland, where she lived with her great-uncle, James Mylne, and spent her winters in study and writing and her summers visiting the Scottish Highlands. By 18, she had written her first book.\n\nWright traveled to the US in 1818. At 23, with her younger sister, she toured the country for two years before she returned to Scotland. She believed in both universal equality in education and feminism. She attacked organized religion, greed, marriage, and capitalism. Along with Robert Owen, Wright demanded that the government offer free boarding schools. She was a fighter for the emancipation of slaves and for birth control and sexual freedom for women. She wanted free public education for all children over two years old, in state-supported boarding schools. She expressed, through her projects in America, what the utopian socialist Charles Fourier had said in France \"that the progress of civilization depended on the progress of women.\"\nWright was the co-founder of the \"Free Inquirer\" newspaper. She wrote \"Views of Society and Manners in America\" (1821) and \"A Few Days in Athens\" (a defense of the philosophy of Epicurus). Her publication of \"Views of Society and Manners in America\" was a major turning point, as it brought her new acquaintances, and led to her return to the US, where she became established as a social reformer. It is a significant example of the 18th-century humanitarian outlook confronting the new democratic world. It was translated into several languages and widely read in Great Britain, the United States and Europe. She was also the editor of The Sentinel (later titled New York Sentinel and Working Man's Advocate).\n\nIn 1824–1825, Wright again visited the United States, accompanying the Marquis de Lafayette during much of his famous tour of the United States. As Lafayette headed South in February, Wright headed west towards Robert Owen and the utopian community he had established at New Harmony, Indiana. They met up again in New Orleans in April 1825 and traveled north along the Mississippi River.\n\nIn the fall of 1825, Wright returned to Memphis and founded the Nashoba Commune, near Memphis, Tennessee. Around the same time, she published a tract, \"A Plan for the Gradual Abolition of Slavery in the United States Without Danger of Loss to the Citizens of the South\", and hoped it would persuade Congress to set aside land for the purpose of promoting emancipation. To demonstrate how slaves could be emancipated without their owners losing money, Wright set out to construct a model farm community where slaves could work to earn their own freedom, while being provided with education. Nashoba was partially based on Owen's New Harmony controversial settlement, where Wright spent a significant amount of time. Nashoba was plagued with difficulties from the start; it was built on mosquitos-infested land and therefore was conducive to malaria, and it failed to produce good crop harvests. Wright had to leave the property because of illness, and while she was away the interim managers of Nashoba began instituting a policy of harsher punishments toward the black workers, and a scandal regarding \"free love\" and an interracial relationship between a white overseer and an African American slave broke out. By Wright's return in 1828, the community had collapsed financially. In 1830, Wright gave up, chartering a ship to take the Commune's thirty slaves to the black republic of Haiti, which had achieved independence in 1804. There, they could live their lives as free men and women. After the closing of Nashoba, Wright wrote an explanation and defense of the commune and the principles of \"human liberty and equality.\" The modern city of Germantown, Tennessee, a suburb of Memphis, is on the land of Nashoba.\nWright's opposition to slavery contrasted with the views of many other Democrats of the era, especially those of the South. At the same time, her activism on behalf of workingmen distanced her from the leading abolitionists of the day. In 1833 to 1836, her lectures upon slavery and other social institutions attracted large and enthusiastic audiences/and led to the establishment of what were called \"Fanny Wright\" societies. Her visits were subsequently extended to the principal cities of the United States, but the enunciation of views similar to those contained in her \"Few Days in Athens\" met with very decided opposition.\n\nin 1831, in Paris, Wright married a French physician, Guillaume D'Arusmont, with whom she had a daughter, Frances Sylva D'Arusmont in 1832. A second child died in infancy. Sylva married William Eugene Guthry, whose name really was Eugène Picault. \n\nAs an activist in the American Popular Health Movement between 1830 and 1840, Wright advocated for women being involved in health and medicine. In 1836, she published her last book, \"Course of Popular Lectures\".\n\nAfter the mid-term political campaign of 1838, Wright suffered from a variety of health problems. She spent her last years in retirement at the residence of her daughter. She died in 1852 in Cincinnati, Ohio, from complications resulting from a fall on an icy staircase. She is buried at the Spring Grove Cemetery in Cincinnati.\n\n\"Views of Society and Manners in America\" was one of Wright's first well-circulated and controversial pieces. She wrote it following her 1818 trip to the United States, her first trip to North America. In \"Views of Society and Manners\", she pondered the treatment of slaves and discussed her time as a foreigner.\n\nWright began the letter with a greeting and acknowledges her foreign status. She admitted having unique outlooks because of her position as an outlander. Indeed, her propositions were striking. She claimed that the Constitution was made for the benefit of its creators but admired the American people. She described their calmness, rationality, and general civility. She claimed that they seldom called names but dealt with issues in an organized manner. She stressed the importance of the newspaper to foreigners, touting it as a roadmap to navigate the new land.\n\nWright also discussed Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson. She praised them and noted that every household possessed copies of one or both of their works. She expressed general positivity toward Americans. She also praised their love for their Founding Fathers. She respected their work ethic and sociability. She noticed their participation in government elections, as well as the newspaper's rigorous attempts to report everything about the ongoing elections. She also discussed women's rights and suggested how women should attain knowledge and be treated.\n\nShe also wrote about other travelers' differing views on American religion. She said one might think that America did not have a religion and someone else might say that the American religion was too stern and dogmatic. She clearly stated that she did not long for the American religion. She expressed that her goal was to analyze the religion, not to conform to it. Based on her time in America, she proposed that there were many different denominations of religion. She referred to them as fraternities. She was very open-minded during her travels to America. She withheld judgment and recorded the various things that stood out to her.\n\nWright also expressed a strong desire to aid marginalized people. In \"Views of Society and Manners\", she examined the American society in terms of the manners of the wealthy and the poorer classes alike. She spoke out against slavery. She was an advocate for citizen health in the South and for assisting the less fortunate. She realized that differences between the majority and minority were made not only on the country but in the small communities as well. She was aware that blacks were uneducated and insisted that education was the way to equality.\n\nHer name is listed on the Reformers Memorial in Kensal Green Cemetery in London.\n\nShe has a plaque on the wall of her birthplace, 136 Nethergate, Dundee.\n\nIn 1994, Wright was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49613100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49613100", "title": "Gianluca Bocchi", "text": "Gianluca Bocchi\n\nGianluca Bocchi (19 December 1954) is an Italian philosopher.\n\nGianluca Bocchi studied Philosophy at the University of Milan where he graduated in Philosophy of Science in 1978, discussing a dissertation entitled \"Conditions and rules in the context of contemporary scientific epistemology\" (supervisors: Ludwig Geymonat and Giulio Giorello).\nFrom 1983 to 1988, he taught Philosophy and worked as researcher at the Faculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences of the University of Geneva, carrying on his research within the scientific team coordinated by Alberto Munari, one of the main exponents of the Piagetian school of genetic epistemology; and has worked extensively with Edgar Morin in Paris on the themes of complexity and complex thinking.\n\nApart from its academic research and teaching engagements at the University, he has also been working as author, lecturer, scientific consultant and trainer. He has been working as project manager and scientific trainer within a number of training projects promoted by leading Italian companies (such as Omnitel, ISVOR-FIAT, Telespazio, RAI, Unilever, ENEL, ENI, IBM, HP, Unicredit, Banca Intesa, Banca Mediolanum, Publitalia, etc.) as well as within training courses for teachers, psychotherapists, and managers of \"human systems\". \nHe has been giving a number of lecturers and seminars in various post-graduate Master courses, and he has especially been working with the TSM-Trento School of Management. He lectured and lectures extensively for managerial audiences on the political and cultural international landscapes in the age of globalization; on human evolution; on scientific and philosophical themes of complexity and change (how the understanding of patterns of change in natural and human history can help us in facing the ubiquitous challenge of change in human organizations).\n\nHe has been guiding a number of \"study tours\", especially to Berlin and the United States, devoted to managers and students and mainly concerning the topic of innovation and identity. \nIn particular, he is currently organizing 'study tours' (Berlin, Istanbul, Prague, Lisbon) on behalf of the section devoted to Training and Work of the Italian Province of Trento (Formazione e Lavoro della Provincia di Trento) and on behalf of a Federation of banks of the Italian Region \"Trentino\" (Federazione delle Casse Rurali del Trentino). \nIn 2009 and 2010, different groups of students from the University of Bergamo attended \"study tours\" to Berlin and Stockholm.\n\nGianluca Bocchi is currently Full Professor at Bergamo University, Italy, Department of Human and Social Sciences, where he teaches Philosophy of Sciences, Global History and Global Sciences. His courses address epistemological issues concerning life sciences, history and the main controversies within the tradition of evolutionary studies, the current major developments within the sciences of complex systems, the philosophical question of identity, the relationship between natural sciences and human sciences, the epistemological refection regarding both history and geography. \nHe is currently also Director of the Centre for Research on Complexity (CE.R.CO) at the University of Bergamo, which research activities are devoted to theories, researches and practices concerning complex systems in human, social and natural sciences. He is also scientific responsible for University of Bergamo of the EU 7FP project \"Bordering, Political Landscapes and Social Arenas: Potentials and Challenges of Evolving Border Concepts in a Post-Cold War World\" (acronym EUBORDERSCAPES, 2012/2016).\n\nApart from his role of Professor at the University of Bergamo, Gianluca Bocchi is also teaching Global History and supervising PhD students and PostDoc fellows within the PhD Programme in Anthropology and Epistemology of Complexity. From 2002 to 2006, he was also the Scientific Coordinator of the PhD Programme in Anthropology and Epistemology of Complexity.\nGianluca Bocchi introduced, indeed, complexity studies in Italy with the volume La sfida della complessità (with Mauro Ceruti, Feltrinelli, 1985) that focuses on the changing paradigms of sciences in the present times as well as the number of modes human beings adopt to inhabit the globe. \nWith Mauro Ceruti and Edgar Morin, he is author of the book \"L’Europa nell’era planetaria\" (Sperling & Kupfer, 1991), where the authors reflect on the complex issue of the co-habitation of different people and nations in the Europe of the 90s and on the main trends of the world history at the beginning of the new millennium. \nIn 1993 he published \"Origini di storie\" (with Mauro Ceruti, Feltrinelli), in which the authors attempt to investigate the complex relations between science, history and myth, by focusing in particular on images of biological evolutions as well as on the evolutions of natural and human history within contemporary sciences. \nWith Mauro Ceruti, he also published \"Solidarietà o barbarie\". \"L’Europa delle diversità contro la pulizia etnica\" (Raffaello Cortina, 1994) that wants to be a sort of manual for citizens of the new Europe, as writes Edgar Morin in the preface to the book, by proposing a critical analysis of the historical roots of the European civilization and of European nations in the light of the major events of the present times, that are so ambivalent being at the same time full of constructive and deconstructive potential. \nIn 2001, he edited with Mauro Ceruti the volume \"Le radici prime dell’Europa\" (Bruno Mondadori), an interdisciplinary collection of the most important reflections (mostly genetic, linguistic and archaeological) that allow us to re-construct the long-term European history making reference, in particular, to migration routes (of people and cultures) that took place through the continent. In the volume, special attention is also devoted to the issue of ethnic identities in Europe both in the past and in the present. Another interesting book on the origins of western civilization and the world history is \"Origini della scrittura. Genealogie di un’invenzione\" (with Mauro Ceruti, Raffaello Cortina, 2002). \nIn 2004, he wrote the book \"Educazione e Globalizzazione\" (with Mauro Ceruti, Raffaello Cortina), where the authors propose a way to reform the national educational system by taking into account the major changes that have been occurring in both the international geo-political and geo-economical scenarios as well as in the forms and contents of our knowledge instruments for interpreting them. \nIn 2009, he published the book \"Una e molteplice. Ripensare l’Europa\" (with Mauro Ceruti, Raffaello Cortina), an attempt to consider both the critical aspects of and the future opportunities inscribed in the present European continent's history as well as in the most recent development of the European Union, 20 years after the Berlin Wall fall in 1989. \nIn 2013, he published the book \"Le vie della formazione. Creatività, innovazione, complessità\" (with Francesco Varanini, Guerini).\n\nOne of the main foci of Gianluca Bocchi's current scientific research is devoted to the epistemological questions arising for biological and evolutionary sciences, in an age where there is a proliferation of empirical and sometimes very surprising results concerning our knowledge of living systems: they do need a new philosophical frame to make them relevant for our enquiry concerning man, nature and society. Other main current fields of enquiry in Gianluca Bocchi's interrogation are: global history and human evolution; paradigmatic changes in the way of seeing and imagining the world by contemporary sciences; interactions, clashes and hybridizations of cultures; cultural stratifications, urban boundaries and planning strategies in contemporary European cities; social trends and istitutional responses in political European systems; origins and developments of national and ethnical identities; politics and governance of globalization; relationship between emerging technologies and human identities; the elaboration of a new philosophical view of change connecting models developed in natural and human sciences; philosophical implications of the rapid growing \"sciences of the artificial\" (synthetic biology plus robotics).\n\nGianluca Bocchi participated and organized a number of international interdisciplinary conferences both as coordinator and member of the scientific committee and he translated and edited the Italian edition of many books on epistemology, philosophy of science, evolutionary studies and complexity theories (Ilya Prigogine, Edgar Morin, Niles Eldredge, Ervin Laszlo).\n\nHe was amongst the founders and the Editorial Board's members of interdisciplinary scientific journals dealing with scientific and philosophical issues: La Casa di Dedalo, Oikos, and Pluriverso. Biblioteca di idee per una civiltà planetaria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29741697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29741697", "title": "Henry Layton", "text": "Henry Layton\n\nHenry Layton (1622–1705) was a minor British philosopher, theological writer, and contemporary of John Locke.\n\nHe was the eldest son of Francis Layton (died 23 August 1661, aged 84) of Rawdon, West Riding of Yorkshire. His father was one of the masters of the jewel-house to Charles I and Charles II. In accordance with his father's will, Layton built the chapel at Rawdon, a chapelry in the parish of Guiseley. He died at Rawdon on 18 October 1705, aged 83. By his wife Elizabeth (died 1702, aged 55), daughter of Sir Nicholas Yarborough, he left no issue.\n\nLayton is remembered for his anonymous authorship of a series of pamphlets, printed between 1692 and 1704, on the question of the immortality of the soul, a doctrine which he rejected. He started writing on the topic in 1691 with short treatise of fifteen sheets, which was circulated in manuscript. A year's correspondence with a nearby minister ended in his being referred to Richard Bentley's second Boyle Lecture (4 April 1692). To this lecture Layton replied in his first published pamphlet. Bentley took no notice of it, but it was criticised five years later by a presbyterian divine, Timothy Manlove of Leeds. Another minister referred Layton to the \"Pneumatologia\" (1671) of John Flavel. Layton's original work had now grown to fifty pages. Ultimately he printed it at his own expense as \"A Search after Souls\".\n\nBy 1697 he had impaired eyesight; Manlove's criticism, published in that year, was read to him by his amanuensis, Timothy Jackson, and he issued a reply. His pamphlets continued till the year before his death, restating his position that soul is a function of body, a view which he defends on physiological grounds, and harmonises with scripture. His authorship was little known. Caleb Fleming, who replied to his \"Search\" in 1758, thought it was the work of William Coward. Besides his printed tracts, Layton left theological manuscripts; his literary executor was his nephew, William Smith, rector of Melsonby, North Riding of Yorkshire.\n\nLayton published the following, all anonymous:\n\n\nAlmost all were collected (not reprinted) 1706, 2 vols., as \"A Search after Souls … By a Lover of Truth\". Most of the copies were suppressed by Layton's executors, a few being deposited in public libraries and given to private friends.\n\n"}
{"id": "1470578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1470578", "title": "Hospitium", "text": "Hospitium\n\nHospitium (, \"xenia\", προξενία) is the ancient Greco-Roman concept of hospitality as a divine right of the guest and a divine duty of the host. Similar or broadly equivalent customs were and are also known in other cultures, though not always by that name. Among the Greeks and Romans, hospitium was of a twofold character: private and public.\n\nIn Homeric times, all strangers, without exception, were regarded as being under the protection of Zeus Xenios, the god of strangers and suppliants, and had the \"right to hospitality\". (It is doubtful whether, as is commonly assumed, they were considered as ipso facto enemies; they were rather guests.) Immediately on his arrival, the stranger was clothed and entertained, and no inquiry was made as to his name or antecedents until the duties of hospitality had been fulfilled. When the guest parted from his host he was often presented with gifts (ξένια), and sometimes a die (ἀστράγαλος) was broken between them. Each then took a part, a family connection was established, and the broken die served as a symbol of recognition; thus the members of each family found in the other hosts and protectors in case of need.\n\nViolation by the host of the \"duties of hospitality\" was likely to provoke the wrath of the gods; but it does not appear that anything beyond this religious sanction existed to guard the rights of a traveler. Similar customs seem to have existed among the Italian peoples. Amongst the Romans, private hospitality, which had existed from the earliest times, was more accurately and legally defined than amongst the Greeks, the tie between host and guest being almost as strong as that between patron and client. It was of the nature of a contract, entered into by mutual promise, the clasping of hands, and exchange of an agreement in writing (\"tabula hospitalis\") or of a token (tessera or symbolum), and was rendered hereditary by the division of the tessera. The advantages thus obtained by the guest were, the right of hospitality when traveling and, above all, the protection of his host (representing him as his patron) in a court of law. The contract was sacred and inviolable, undertaken in the name of Jupiter Hospitalis, and could only be dissolved by a formal act.\n\nThis private connection developed into a custom according to which a state appointed one of the citizens of a foreign state as its representative Proxenos (πρόξενος) to protect any of its citizens travelling or resident in his country. Sometimes an individual came forward voluntarily to perform these duties on behalf of another state \"etheloproxenos\" (ἐθελοπρόξενος). The proxenus is generally compared to the modern consul or minister resident. His duties were to afford hospitality to strangers from the state whose proxenus he was, to introduce its ambassadors, to procure them admission to the assembly and seats in the theatre, and in general to look after the commercial and political interests of the state by which he had been appointed to his office.\n\nMany cases occur where such an office was hereditary; thus the family of Callias at Athens were proxeni of the Spartans. We find the office mentioned in a Corcyraean inscription dating probably from the 7th century BC, and it continued to grow more important and frequent throughout Greek history. There is no proof that any direct emolument was ever attached to the office, while the expense and trouble entailed by it must often have been very great. Probably the honors which it brought with it were sufficient recompense. These consisted partly in the general respect and esteem paid to a proxenus, and partly in many more substantial honors conferred by special decree of the state whose representative he was, such as freedom from taxation and public burdens, the right of acquiring property in Attica, admission to the senate and popular assemblies, and perhaps even full citizenship.\n\nPublic hospitium seems also to have existed among the Italian races; but the circumstances of their history prevented it from becoming so important as in Greece. Cases, however, occur of the establishment of public hospitality between two cities (Rome and Caere, Livy v. 50), and of towns entering into a position of clientship to some distinguished Roman, who then became patronus of such a town. Foreigners were frequently granted the right of public hospitality by the senate down to the end of the republic. The public \"hospes\" had a right to entertainment at the public expense, admission to sacrifices and games, the right of buying and selling on his own account, and of bringing an action at law without the intervention of a Roman patron.\n\nA full bibliography of the subject will be found in the article in Daremberg and Saglio, \"Dictionnaire des antiquités\", to which may be added Rudolf von Jhering. \"Die Gastfreundschaft im Altertum\" (1887); see also Smith's \"Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities\" (3rd ed., 1890).\n\nIn the Middle Ages, the term was extended, across Europe, to refer to the building or complex of buildings attached to a monastery, where pilgrims and other lesser guests could find hospitality or \"hospitium\", including dormitory-based accommodation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4613912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4613912", "title": "Identityism", "text": "Identityism\n\nIdentityism is the school of Sufi metaphysics of unity of being traditionally known as \"Wahdat-ul-Wujood\" or \"Wahdat al-wujud\" (Arabic: Literally, unity of existence) formulated by Ibn Arabi. Identityism is similar to monism in the west and nondualism and advaita vedanta in Hinduism.\n\n"}
{"id": "13901408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13901408", "title": "Implied repeal", "text": "Implied repeal\n\nThe doctrine of implied repeal is a concept in constitutional theory which states that where an Act of Parliament or an Act of Congress (or of some other legislature) conflicts with an earlier one, the later Act takes precedence and the conflicting parts of the earlier Act becomes legally inoperable. This doctrine is expressed in the Latin phrase \"leges posteriores priores contrarias abrogant\".\n\nImplied repeal is to be contrasted with the express repeal of legislation by the legislative body.\n\nUnder United States law, \"implied repeal\" is a disfavored doctrine. That is, if a court can reconcile the two statutes with any reasonable interpretation, that interpretation is preferred to one that treats the earlier statute as invalidated by the later one.\n\nIn Canadian law, it is possible for a law to be protected from implied repeal by way of a \"primacy clause\" which state that the act in question supersedes all other statutes until it is specifically repealed. Acts with such primacy clauses are called quasi-constitutional.\n\nIn the 2002 English case \"Thoburn v Sunderland City Council\" (the so-called \"Metric Martyrs\" case), Lord Justice Laws held that some constitutionally significant statutes hold a higher status in UK law and are not be subject to the doctrine of implied repeal. The case specifically dealt with s.2(2) of the European Communities Act, but in his judgment Lord Justice Laws also held the view that the Parliament Acts and the Human Rights Act are \"constitutional statutes\" and in his opinion may not be subject to the doctrine of implied repeal. \n\nA decade later in 2012, in a case before the United Kingdom Supreme Court, \"BH v The Lord Advocate (Scotland)\", Lord Hope held (in Paragraph 30 of the judgment) that \"the Scotland Act can only be expressly repealed; it cannot be impliedly repealed; that is because of its 'fundamental constitutional nature'.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "10667966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10667966", "title": "Informed refusal", "text": "Informed refusal\n\nInformed refusal is where a person has refused a recommended medical treatment based upon an understanding of the facts and implications of not following the treatment. Informed refusal is linked to the informed consent process, as a patient has a right to consent, but also may choose to refuse.\n\nThe individual needs to be in possession of the relevant facts as well as of his reasoning faculties, such as not being intellectually disabled or mentally ill and without an impairment of judgment at the time of refusing. Such impairments might include illness, intoxication, drunkenness, using drugs, insufficient sleep, and other health problems. In cases where an individual is considered unable to give informed refusal, another person (guardian) may be authorized to give consent on their behalf.\nThe concept grew out of and is similar to that of informed consent, but much less commonly used and applied. In the United States of America it is recognized in certain state laws (in 2006: California, Nevada, Vermont, and Michigan) as well as in various court decisions.\n\nAs applied in the medical field, a physician has made an assessment of a patient and finds a specific test, intervention, or treatment is medically necessary. The patient refuses to consent to this recommendation. The physician then needs to explain the risks of not following through with the recommendations to allow the patient to make an informed decision against the recommendation. While in the past documentation of refusal of treatment has not been important, the widespread use of managed care, cost containment processes, as well as increased patient autonomy have created a situation where documented \"informed refusal\" is viewed as becoming more important. When refusal of treatment may result in significant damage or death, the interaction needs to be documented to protect the care giver in a potential later litigation against the allegation that the recommendation was either not made or not understood. On occasion, a patient will also refuse to sign the \"informed refusal\" document, in which case a witness would have to sign that the informed process and the refusal took place.\n\nThe pregnant patient represents a specific dilemma in the field of informed refusal as her action may result in harm or death to the fetus. Ethicists disagree on how to handle this situation.\n"}
{"id": "8169999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8169999", "title": "John Blund", "text": "John Blund\n\nJohn Blund (c. 1175–1248) was an English scholastic philosopher, known for his work on the nature of the soul, the Tractatus de anima, one of the first works of western philosophy to make use of the recently translated \"De Anima\" by Aristotle and especially the Persian philosopher Avicenna's work on the soul, also called \"De Anima\". He taught at Oxford University along with Edmund of Abingdon. David Knowles said that he was \"noteworthy for his knowledge of Avicenna and his rejection of the hylomorphism of Avicebron and the plurality of forms.\", although the problem of the plurality of forms as understood by later scholastics was not formulated explicitly in Blund's time. Maurice Powicke calls him the \"first English Aristotelian.\"\n\nBlund was a royal clerk by 1227 and studied at Oxford and Paris, and was at the University of Paris when it was dispersed in 1229. He was a canon of Chichester before 1232. He was archbishop of Canterbury during a brief reign, having been elected on 26 August 1232. He was supported by Peter des Roches, but did not receive papal approval and the election was quashed because of alleged pluralism on 1 June 1233. Probably it was the support of des Roches that doomed his election to Canterbury, and the pluralism charge was cover for the real reason. He was appointed chancellor of the see of York before 3 November 1234, and died in 1248.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3666706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3666706", "title": "Libre Software Meeting", "text": "Libre Software Meeting\n\nThe Libre Software Meeting (LSM) is an annual free software event originally held in France. The French name of this event is Rencontres mondiales du logiciel libre (RMLL).\n\nThe Libre Software Meeting takes place each year since 2000, in July. Launched by the French free software users group Association Bordelaise des utilisateurs de logiciels libres (ABUL). More than 1000 people, coming from more than 50 countries, participate each year.\n\nThe LSM is a mix of two complementary meetings:\n\nThe LSM is organized by a team of volunteers, combining local and national free software associations.\n\nThe village of the associations welcome the visitors with a set of stands presenting local or national associations.\n\nThe LSM logo was drawn with Sketch by André Pascual, Linuxgraphic.org co-creator, for the LSM 2001. The choice of the mascot and her name come from the homophony with Armelle (a French feminine first name) and RMLL, as pronounced in English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53487115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53487115", "title": "Logos (Islam)", "text": "Logos (Islam)\n\nThroughout Islamic history, there have existed several different metaphysical concepts that have been understood to correspond \"in many respects\" to the logos Christology of Christianity and to the use of the phrase in late Greek philosophy. In the writings of many of the most prominent Sunni Islamic metaphysicians, philosophers, and mystics of the Islamic Golden Age, Muhammad, who is given the title of \"Seal of the Prophets\" in the Quran, was understood to be \"both a manifestation of the Logos and the Logos itself, both the beginning of the prophetic cycle and its end, and, being its end and seal,\" as one who contained \"from an essential and inward point of view the whole prophetic function within himself.\" This classical identification of Muhammad with the \"logos\" emerged from particular interpretations of specific Quranic verses, sayings of the prophet, and through the writings of the early mystics of Islam. At the same time, the \"logos\" concept was also intimately tied in the works of the same authors to other important Islamic cosmological concepts, such as the ideas of \"ʿaql\" (\"Intellect\"), which \"resembled the late Greek doctrine of the \"logos\"\" and represented an Arabic equivalent to the Neoplatonic \"νοῦς\" (\"Intellect\"), \"lawḥ maḥfūẓ\" (\"Guarded Tablet,\" in Quran 85:22), \"ḳalam\" (\"Divine Pen\"), \"umm al-kitāb\" (\"Mother of the Book,\" in Quran 3:7, 13:39, 43:4), and, perhaps most famously, the Muhammad-related ideas of \"al-insān al-kāmil\" (\"Perfect Man\" or \"Universal Man\"), \"nūr muḥammadī\" (\"Muhammadan Light\"), and \"al-ḥaqīqa al-muḥammadiyya\" (\"Muhammadan Reality\"). The \"logos\" was often presented as \"created\" in Islamic doctrine, and thus was more akin to Philo's understanding of the phrase than Nicene Christianity.\n"}
{"id": "4020320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4020320", "title": "Lululemon Athletica", "text": "Lululemon Athletica\n\nLululemon athletica inc. (), styled as lululemon athletica, is a Canadian athletic apparel retailer. Lululemon is a self-described yoga-inspired athletic apparel company for women and men. The company makes a variety of types of athletic wear, including performance shirts, shorts, and pants, as well as lifestyle apparel and yoga accessories. The company was originally based in Canada, but has expanded to sell its products internationally in both store fronts and online. While the brand is known for its stylish and high-quality items, it has been criticized for being \"cultish, faddish and overpriced.\" The brand attempts to adopt a genuine, customer-education focus, but has been questioned as to whether it truly practices what it preaches. Key competitors include Athleta, Nike and Under Armour.\n\nThe company was founded in 1998 by Chip Wilson in Vancouver, British Columbia, and sold its first pair of yoga pants that year. In 2005, Wilson brought in investors to help oversee the company's initial public offering, including former Reebok executive Robert Meers. Lululemon launched its IPO in July 2007, and raised $327.6 million after selling 18.2 million shares. \n\nChristine Day, a former co-president of Starbucks International, became chief executive officer in June 2008. In 2013, the company made its third consecutive appearance on Fortune's Fastest-Growing Companies list. In March of that year, the company received media coverage after it pulled a line of its signature yoga pants due to \"an unacceptable level of sheerness.\" A few months later, CEO Day resigned with little explanation. In December 2013, founder Chip Wilson announced his resignation as chairman, and that president of TOMS Shoes, Laurent Potdevin, would become CEO.\n\nIn February 2014, Lululemon announced plans to open its first full store in Europe, with a flagship shop in Covent Garden, London. In February 2015, Wilson announced that he was resigning from the board, and Michael Casey, former lead director of the board, would replace him.\n\nOn February 5, 2018, Laurent Potdevin resigned as CEO and from the company's board. Lululemon cited several incidents of unspecified misconduct as the reasons for Potdevin's departure.\n\nAccording to a company source, seventy percent of managers are hired internally. Store managers are responsible for their store's layout, color coordination, and community involvement.\n\nLululemon sells athletic wear including tops, pants, shorts, sweaters, jackets and undergarments, as well as hair accessories, bags, yoga mats and water bottles. Lululemon trademarked its original fabric, Luon, which included a higher-than-average amount of nylon microfiber, in 2005. Since then, the company has produced several different types of fabrics, including compression and moisture-wicking designs. \n\nLululemon maintains a research and development lab within its headquarters called Whitespace. The lab is made up of around 50 employees that include scientists and physiologists. \n\nIt has been argued that Lululemon uses a holistic guerrilla marketing approach, through which wearing Lululemon clothing is linked to feeling like part of a larger community. Thus, purchasing their product and supporting their brand becomes a solution to a problem. Consumers' purchases from Lululemon become less about the commercial transaction, and more about how the individual feels the purchase contributes to their personal development.\n\nLululemon uses social media including Facebook, Twitter and Instagram as one of its main methods of marketing the company and its products. Through social media such as Facebook, it holds live discussions with designers from the brand via posts and comments. It also feature photos and advertisements for its ‘products of the day,’ to keep its followers interested and actively thinking about the brand.\n\nLululemon incorporates sustainability into its business model. The company's corporate social responsibility strategy, \"Community Legacy\", is built around five elements: community, sourcing and manufacturing, people, efficiency and waste reduction, and green building spaces.\n\nIn November 2007, \"The New York Times\" reported that Lululemon made false claims about its \"Vitasea\" clothing product; the firm had claimed that its Vitasea clothing, made from seaweed, provided \"anti-inflammatory, antibacterial, hydrating and detoxifying benefits\" but laboratory tests failed to find significant differences in mineral levels between cotton T-shirts and the fabric Vitasea. Lululemon was subsequently forced to remove all health claims from its seaweed-based products marketed in Canada, following a demand from a Canadian oversight agency, the Competition Bureau of Canada. A subsequent report in 2009 suggested that some yoga devotees saw the company's yoga image as an \"annoying phony-baloney symbol\" with criticism that its \"positive messaging\" is vague with slogans such as \"friends are more important than money.\"\n\nThere were complaints about lululemon's clothing being poor quality with some items being \"too sheer,\" as well as having holes appear and falling apart after a few uses. In December 2010, lululemon recalled some of the store's reusable bags that were made in China from polypropylene, based on reports of high levels of lead and concerns about possible lead poisoning. In March 2013, lululemon was hit by a large recall of its black yoga pants that were unintentionally transparent and \"too thin\"; the recall, which amounted to approximately 17% of all women's pants sold in its stores, impacted its financial results. The financial hit on earnings, and damage to the public image of the lululemon brand are credited with lululemon's Chief Product Officer, Sheree Waterson's forced departure.\n\nFounder Chip Wilson has made numerous controversial statements. In a 2004 interview, Wilson mocked Japanese pronunciation of the name of his company: \"I was playing with [the letter] Ls and I came up with Lululemon. It's funny to watch them try to say it.\" He has also said that his company does not make clothes for plus-size women because it costs too much money. In an effort to explain the cause of excessive pilling in the brand's clothing, he blamed some customers for wearing lululemon's clothes improperly or for having body shapes inconsistent with his clothes. During his interview for Bloomberg TV in November 2013, he said, \"Frankly some women's bodies just don't actually work for it\" and \"it's really about the rubbing through the thighs, how much pressure is there over a period of time, how much they use it.\" According to one report, comments such as these led to Wilson's resignation as chairman. The statements were described in \"Time\" as \"fat shaming\" which led to much criticism among feminist blogs. The report suggested that it was company policy to discourage \"plus-size customers\" as part of its brand strategy since \"no customer wants to endure the embarrassment of asking a clerk to go find a bigger size.\"\n\nIn June 2016, Wilson published an open letter to shareholders of lululemon stating that lululemon has \"lost its way\" and given up market share to Nike and Under Armour, after he was denied the opportunity to speak at the company's annual meetings. Since then, Wilson uses the website Elevate lululemon to share his vision for the brand and business.\n\nIn 2011, employee Brittany Norwood murdered colleague Jayna Murray at the Lululemon Athletica store in Bethesda, Maryland. The case received intense media attention and became known as the \"Lululemon murder\". This altercation began when Norwood attempted to steal a pair of Lululemon yoga pants. The scene quickly escalated and ultimately ended in the use of five different weapons and Murray receiving 331 different wounds, leading to her death. Murray struggled to survive and was alive through most of the attack.\n\nIn August 2012, lululemon filed suit against Calvin Klein and supplier G-III Apparel Group for infringement of three lululemon design patents for yoga pants. The lawsuit was somewhat unusual as it involved a designer seeking to assert Intellectual Property protection in clothing through patent rights. On November 20, 2012, lululemon filed a notice of voluntary dismissal in the Delaware courts based upon a private settlement agreement reached between the parties that dismissed the suit.\n"}
{"id": "38244165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38244165", "title": "Marius Jeuken", "text": "Marius Jeuken\n\nMarius Jeuken (26 January 1916 - 24 March 1983) was professor of theoretical biology at the Institute of Theoretical Biology at Leiden University in the Netherlands, from 1968 until his death.\nJeuken was also a member of the Society of Jesus; he joined the Dutch Jesuits in 1934 and was ordained a Catholic priest in 1946 in Maastricht.\n\nIn 1953 Leiden University started a section Theoretical Biology within the department of Zoology under the direction of the mathematical biologist H.R. van der Vaart. In 1957 this section was transformed into an Institute with Van der Vaart as its Professor. But in 1961 he moved to Raleigh, North Carolina.\n\nIn 1966, the institute attracted Evert Meelis as a statistical consultant and invited Marius Jeuken to direct the institute, after he had been teaching biology at the Gadjah Mada University of Yogyakarta (Indonesia). He had been trained as an animal physiologist, and had defended his thesis under supervision of C. J. van der Klaauw at Leiden University.\n\nIn 1968, Jeuken was given a Professorship in Theoretical Biology. For at least half of his time he was dedicated to do experimental research so his theoretical biology would not lose contact with reality. One of his specific interests was how biology could benefit from the philosophy developed by the mathematician and philosopher Alfred North Whitehead at Harvard University. It inspired one of his students, Gerard Verschuuren, to further expand on this issue (on Hemostatic Regulation).\n\nHis institute has always had strong historical ties with the Prof. Dr. Jan van der Hoeven Foundation, which is still the publisher of Acta Biotheoretica, the oldest journal of theoretical biology in the world. For years, Jeuken acted as its Editor-in-Chief, until he died in 1983.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32013988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32013988", "title": "Matthew W. McKeon", "text": "Matthew W. McKeon\n\nMatthew W. McKeon is the chair of the philosophy department at Michigan State University and well known philosopher of logic. McKeon earned his Ph.D. in philosophy at The University of Connecticut in 1994. He teaches courses in Logic and Philosophy of Language.\n\nMcKeon's work primarily focuses on Logic and Philosophy of Language, Metaphysics, Epistemology, History of Early Twentieth Century Analytic Philosophy, and Philosophy of Mathematics.\n\nHe has published numerous peer-reviewed articles in journals such as \"Synthese,\" \"Journal of Philosophical Logic,\" and \"History and Philosophy of Logic.\" He also published the book \"The Concept of Logical Consequence (American University Studies V: Philosophy) in 2010.\"\n\nMcKeon was a participant in the NEH Summer Seminar, \"Proofs and Refutations in Mathematics Today,\" from June 25 to August 3 of 2001 at Case Western Reserve University and was awarded an IRGP (MSU intramural) grant in 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8210419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8210419", "title": "Mid-twentieth century baby boom", "text": "Mid-twentieth century baby boom\n\nThe middle of the twentieth century was marked by significant and persistent increase in fertility rates in many countries of the world, especially in the West, resulting in the famous baby boomer generation. There is some disagreement as to the precise beginning and ending dates of the post-war baby boom, but it is most often agreed to have begun in 1946 immediately after World War II; some place it earlier, at the increase of births during 1941–1943. The boom coincided with the marriage boom, a significant increase in nuptiality.\n\nThe baby boom started to decline as birth rates in the United States started to decline in 1958, and grinded to a halt six years later in 1964. In countries that had suffered heavy war damage, displacement of people, and post-war economic hardship (e.g., Germany and Poland), the boom began some years later.\n\nEconomist and demographer Richard Easterlin in his \"Twentieth Century American Population Growth\" (2000), explains the growth pattern of American population in the 20th century by examining the fertility rate fluctuations and the decreasing mortality rate. Easterlin attempts to prove the cause of the baby boom and baby bust by the \"relative income\" theory, despite the various other theories that these events have been attributed to. The \"relative income\" theory suggests that couples choose to have children based on a couple's ratio of potential earning power and the desire to obtain material objects. This ratio depends on the economic stability of the country and how people are raised to value material objects. The \"relative income\" theory explains the baby boom by suggesting that the late 1940s and the 1950s brought low desires to have material objects, because of the Great Depression and World War II, as well as plentiful job opportunities (being a post-war period). These two factors gave rise to a high relative income, which encouraged high fertility. Following this period, the next generation had a greater desire for material objects, however an economic slowdown in the United States made jobs harder to acquire. This resulted in lower fertility rates causing the Baby Bust.\n\nJan Van Bavel and David S. Reher proposed that the increase in nuptiality (marriage boom) coupled with low efficiency of contraception was the main cause of the baby-boom. They doubted the explanations (including the Easterlin hypothesis) which considered the post-war economic prosperity that followed deprivation of the Great Depression as main cause of the baby-boom, stressing that GDP-birth rate association was not consistent (positive before 1945 and negative after) with GDP growth accounting for mere 5 percent of the variance in the crude birth rate over the period studied by the authors.\n\nMatthias Doepke, Moshe Hazan, and Yishay Maoz all argued that the baby-boom was mainly caused by the alleged crowding out from labor force of females who reached adulthood in 1950s by females who start to work during the Second World War and do not quit job after the economy recovered. Andriana Bellou and Emanuela Cardia promote similar argument, but they claiming that it were women who entered labor force during the Great Depression who crowded out women who participate in the baby-boom. Glenn Sandström disagrees with both variants of this interpretation based on the data from Sweden showing that an increase in nuptiality (which was one of the main causes of an increase in fertility) was limited to economically active women. He pointed out that in 1939 a law prohibiting the firing of a woman when she got married was passed in the country.\n\nGreenwood, Seshadri, and Vandenbroucke ascribe the baby boom to the diffusion of new household appliances that led to reduction of costs of childbearing. However Martha J. Bailey and William J. Collins criticize their explanation on the basis that improvement of household technology began before baby-boom, differences and changes in ownership of appliances and electrification in U.S. counties are negatively correlated with birth rates\nduring baby-boom, that the correlation between cohort fertility of the relevant women and access to electrical service in early adulthood is negative, and that Amish also experienced the baby boom.\n\nJudith Blake and Prithwis Das Gupta point out the increase in ideal family size in the times of baby-boom.\n\nPeter Lindert partially attribute the baby-boom to the extension of income tax coverage on most of US population in the early 1940s. The latter actualize already existed and newly created tax exemptions for children and married couples creating the new incentive for earlier marriage and higher fertility. It is proposed that because of the fact that the taxation was progressive the baby-boom was more pronounced among the richer population.\n\nMost baby boomers are now in their 60s or 70s, with the oldest member of the boom being around 75. The trailing boomers are in their late 50s, with the youngest being 58 as of 2018 (If one uses Strauss and Howes generational span of 1943-1960). In the economy, many are now retiring and leaving the labor force.\n\nIn 1946, live births in the U.S. surged from 222,721 in January to 339,499 in October. By the end of the 1940s, about 32 million babies had been born, compared with 24 million in the 1930s. In 1954, annual births first topped four million and did not drop below that figure until 1965, when four out of ten Americans were under the age of 20.\n\nIt is important to distinguish between the demographic boom in births, and the actual generations born during that period.\n\nAs shown in the birth rate chart to the right, the baby boom in the United States is as much defined by the low birth rates that preceded and followed it as it is by an exceptionally high post-war fertility rate. The birth rate from 1946 to 1964 is much lower than the birth rate prior to World War I, although it is high in comparison to the time periods immediately preceding and following 1946–1964.\n\nThe exact beginning and end of the baby boom can be debated. The U.S. Census Bureau defines \"baby boomers\" as those born between mid-1946 and mid-1964, although the U.S. birth rate began to shoot up in 1941 and to decline after 1957. Deborah Carr considers baby boomers to be those born between 1944 and 1959, while Strauss and Howe place the beginning of the baby boom in 1943. The following table shows changes in U.S. population during the period of U.S. involvement in World War II and for the five years thereafter, based on U.S. census information.\n\nWhen the war ended in 1945, millions of veterans returned home and reintegrated into civilian life. To help this process, Congress passed the G.I. Bill of Rights. This encouraged home ownership and investment in higher education through the distribution to veterans of loans at low or zero interest rates.\n\nReturning veterans married, started families, pursued higher education, and bought their first homes. With veterans' benefits, the twenty-somethings found new homes in planned communities on the outskirts of American cities. This group, whose formative years covered the Great Depression, was a generation hardened by poverty and deprived of the security of a home or job. Now thriving on the American Dream, life was simple, jobs were plentiful, and a record number of babies were born.\n\nMany Americans believed that lack of post-war government spending would send the United States back into depression. However, consumer demand fueled economic growth. The baby boom triggered a housing boom, a consumption boom and a boom in the labor force. Between 1950 and 1960, the nation's real GDP rose almost 50%, from $2.2 trillion to $3.1 trillion (in 2009 dollars). The middle class grew and the majority of America's labor force held white-collar jobs. This increase led to urbanization and increased the demand for ownership of cars and other 1950s and 1960s inventions.\n\nMarriage rates rose sharply in the 1940s and reached all-time highs. After World War II, Americans began to marry at a younger age: the average age of a person at their first marriage dropped to 22.5 years for males and 20.1 for females, down from 24.3 for males and 21.5 for females in 1940. Getting married immediately after high school was becoming commonplace and women were increasingly under tremendous pressure to marry by the age of 20. The stereotype developed that women were going to college to earn their M.R.S. (Mrs.) degree.\n\nThe marriage boom is a major explanation for the baby boom. The rise in male earnings that started in the late 1930s accounts for most of the rise in marriage rates. Richard Easterlin's hypothesis that a relatively small birth cohort entering the labor market caused the marriage boom is not consistent with data from the United States.\n\nFamily size increased sharply throughout the baby boom: the average woman bore 3.09 children in 1950 which increased to 3.65 children per family in 1960; the peak was in 1957, when the figure stood at 3.77. Most women became pregnant with their first child within seven months of their wedding; between 1940 and 1960, the number of families with three children doubled and the number of families having a fourth child quadrupled.\n\nIn the United States more babies were born during the seven years after 1948 than in the previous 30, causing a shortage of teenage babysitters. Madison, New Jersey, for example, only had 50 high-school girls to babysit for a town of 8,000, and any sitter could have had two sitting jobs at once if desired. $5 of the $7 that a California couple spent to go to the movies in 1950 went to the babysitter.\n\nIn Canada, the baby boom is usually defined as occurring from 1947 to 1966, with over 400,000 babies born yearly. Canadian soldiers were repatriated later than American servicemen, and Canada's birthrate did not start to rise until 1947. Most Canadian demographers prefer to use the later date of 1966 as the boom's end year in that country. The later end than the US (baby-boom generation: babies born from 1946 to 1964; see preceding paragraphs) is ascribed to a later adoption of birth control pills.\n\nThe author and columnist Bernard Salt places the Australian baby boom between 1946 and 1961.\n\nAfter a short baby boom immediately after the war peaking in 1946, the United Kingdom experienced a second \"baby boom\" during the 1960s, with a peak in births in 1964, and a third, smaller boom peaking in 1990. The three peaks can clearly be seen in the UK Population Pyramid.\n\nMany European countries, Australia and New Zealand also experienced a baby boom. In some cases the total fertility rate almost doubled. The American birth model, conceived by demographer Frank Notestein, was punctuated by an end to the upsurge in births and a return to pre-war levels. In many European countries the first year of the Post World War II baby boom was the year 1946, but in Germany the first year was the year 1955 in Finland the largest birth rate was in August and September 1945. Japan had two separate baby booms. The first started in 1947, the second in 1971. Prior to World War II, mortality rates in Europe and America were on a general decline due to improved nutrition and medicine, and a surge in births were previously not experienced at such a large scale. Based on this model, baby boom years for other countries regarded for having a baby boom are as follows:\n\nIn some of these examples, an \"echo boom\" followed some time after as the offspring of the initial boom gave rise to a second increase, with a baby \"bust\" in between. The birth years of the baby boom as noted being both short and long lived, creates what many believe to be a myth to the notion of defining baby boomers as one \"generation\", as a unified concept is clearly not possible. Indeed, multiple generations may be present in a single country such as Ireland where the boom lasted 36 years. This overlapping effect of generations is not illuminated when considering crude fertility rates. The only common ground for the collective boom is the same approximate starting year. This example can be applied to each state in the United States on an individual basis. The states with a census in place in 1946 saw fertility rates drop to pre-war levels throughout the 1960s, with the average being in 1964.\n\nAlong with developed countries of the West, many developing countries also witnessed baby-boom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8476203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8476203", "title": "Mir Sayyid Ali Hamadani", "text": "Mir Sayyid Ali Hamadani\n\nMir Sayyid Ali Hamadani (‎; 1314–1384) was a Persian Sūfī of the Kubrawiya order, a poet and a prominent Shafi'i Muslim scholar. He was born in Hamadan, and was buried in Khatlan Tajikistan. He was known as \"Shāh-e-Hamadān\" (\"King of Hamadān\"), \"Amīr-i Kabīr\" (\"the Great Commander\"), and \"Ali Sani\" (\"second Ali\").\n\nHamadani spent his early years under the tutelage of Ala ud-Daula Simnani, a famous Kubrawi saint from Semnan, Iran. Despite his teacher's opposition to Ibn Arabi's explication of the \"wahdat al-wujud\" (\"unity of existence\"), Hamadani wrote \"Risala-i-Wujudiyya\", a tract in defense of that doctrine, as well as two commentaries on \"Fusus al-Hikam\", Ibn Arabi's work on Al-Insān al-Kāmil. Hamadani is credited with introducing the philosophy of Ibn-Arabi to South Asia.\n\nSayyid Ali Hamadani traveled widelyit is said he traversed the known world from East to West three times. In 774AH/1372AD Hamadani lived in Kashmir. After Sharaf-ud-Din Abdul Rehman Bulbul Shah, he was the second important Muslim to visit Kashmir. Hamadani went to Mecca, and returned to Kashmir in 781/1379, stayed for two and a half years, and then went to Turkistan by way of Ladakh. He returned to Kashmir for a third time in 785/1383 and left because of ill health. Hamadani is regarded as having brought various crafts and industries from Iran into Kashmir; it is said that he brought with him 700 followers, including some weavers of carpets and shawls, who taught the craft of \"pashmina\" textile and carpet-making to the local population. Ladakh likewise benefited from his interest in textile weaving. The growth of the textile industry in Kashmir increased its demand for fine wool, which in turn meant that Kashmiri Muslim groups settled in Ladakh, bringing with them crafts such as minting and writing.\n\nHamadani travelled and preached Islam in different parts of the world including Afghanistan, Uzbekistan, China, Syria, and Turkestan. \n\nHamadani died in Kunar Province Afghanistan . His body was carried to Khatlan, Tajikistan, where his shrine is located.\n\nHis disciple Sayyid Ishaq al-Khatlani was in turn the master of Shah Syed Muhammad Nurbakhsh Qahistani.\n\nOne manuscript (Raza Library, Rampur, 764; copied 929/1523) contains eleven works ascribed to Hamadani (whose \"silsila\" runs to Naw'i Khabushani; the manuscript contains two documents associated with him).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26502755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26502755", "title": "Miroslav Hroch", "text": "Miroslav Hroch\n\nProf. Miroslav Hroch (born 14 June 1932 in Prague) is a Czech historian and political theorist and a professor at the Charles University in Prague.\n\nHroch earned his PhD at the Charles University in 1962. On \nMay 30, 1997 Hroch received an honorary doctorate from the Faculty of Humanities at Uppsala University, Sweden \n\nMiroslav Hroch has earned international academic renown for his works about formation and evolution of the national movements of Central and Eastern European nations. He has significantly contributed to the establishment of comparative history as a research field in East-Central Europe.\n\nHroch defined three chronological stages in the creation of a nation:\n\n\nHroch's definition of nation:\n\"Now the 'nation is not, of course, an eternal category, but was the product of a long and complicated process of historical development in Europe. For our purposes, let us define it at the outset as \"a large social group integrated not by one but by a combination of several kinds of objective relationships (economic, political, linguistic, cultural, religious, geographical, historical), and their subjective reflection in collective consciousness.\"\n\nMany of these ties could be mutually substituable - some playing a particularly important role in one nation-building process, and no more than a subsidiary part in others. But among them, three stand out as irreplaceable: \n\n"}
{"id": "42853889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42853889", "title": "Muhammad Sherin", "text": "Muhammad Sherin\n\nMuhammad Sherin(Pashto:محمد شیرین) ;known as Marghuzar Babajee, is a Muslim Sufi(pir), saint and Islamic scholar of Qadiriyya Chishti Silsila(order).\n\nHe was born in 1933 in Talash, Dir state to Ghulam Muhammad. His grandfather; Hasan Khan was the disciple of Akhund of Swat. He is father of two daughters. He remained the disciple of Abdul Hadi (Shah Mansur),Maulana Khan Bahadar (Martung babajee), Maulana Sirajul Yum (Gharai Babajee),Maulana Zardad babajee (Mingora) and Maulana Rahimullah (Mingora).\n\nMuhanmmad Sherin used to stay in a cave near the town Marghuzar known as the cave of Akhund of Swat( A cave where Saidu Baba used to stay and pray), for nearly 17 years. He is now settled in a mosque near Marghuzar where a large numbers of his disciples visit him and receive spiritual education.\n\nMuhammad Sherin performed Hajj(Pilgrimage) four times and few Umrahs. Before sitting in a Chillah he used to work as labour in the construction roads in Swat. He visited India with his brothers to earn their livelihood. He also visited Afghanistan in 1997 where he called on religious scholars.He also visited the tomb of Tamim Ansari and Jubair.\n\nAkhund of Swat\n"}
{"id": "7187931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7187931", "title": "Myles Cooper", "text": "Myles Cooper\n\nMyles Cooper (1735 – May 1, 1785) was a figure in colonial New York. An Anglican priest, he served as the President of King's College (predecessor of today's Columbia University) from 1763 to 1775, and was a public opponent of the American Revolution.\n\nCooper was educated at The Queen's College, Oxford where he later served as chaplain. Ordained as a priest in the Church of England in 1761, he attracted the influence of several high clergymen, including Thomas Secker, Archbishop of Canterbury, who recommended him for service in the American colonies. Cooper was thereby sent to New York in 1762 to assist Samuel Johnson, president of King's College, which was an Anglican establishment. Cooper was appointed professor of mental and moral philosophy, and a year later he had assumed the college presidency.\n\nCooper was chosen to replace his predecessor in the position of College President primarily because the Governors of the institution believed he would be far easier to control. Indeed, Cooper was not entirely engaged in the educational mission of King's, possessing a larger cache of alcoholic beverages than books, and more frequently engaging in the urban life of New York.\n\nStill, the college prospered under Cooper's tenure, creating, among other things, the second medical college in the Americas, in 1767. Judge Thomas Jones wrote that \"under his tuition was produced a number of young men superior in learning and ability to any that America had ever before seen,\" and George Washington, whose stepson John Parke Custis attended King's, wrote of Cooper that he was \"a gentleman capable of instructing him [Custis] in every branch of knowledge.\"\n\nHe was elected a Member of the American Philosophical Society in 1769.\n\nWhile in the American colonies Cooper floated several grandiose schemes that were never realized:\n\nCooper was reportedly more enamored with the Southern colonies than New York, and frequently took to \"rambles\" there. Desiring to resettle there, he proposed to his ecclesiastical superiors, in both 1768 and 1774, that two Anglican sees be established in North America, and that he be appointed bishop of the more southernly one.\n\nThough he was in the thrall of King's College's governors during much of his tenure, Cooper had novel plans for the fledgling institution. He proposed that the Colonial Colleges be merged into an \"American University\", the structure of which would be similar to Oxford or Cambridge. Under this scheme, the constituent colleges, including Harvard, Yale, and the College of New Jersey (later Princeton), would remain quasi-independent but would be controlled by King's, which would be elevated to university status and sanctioned as the only degree-granting institution in the colonies. Although Cooper obtained the support of the King's College Governors for the plan and left for England with a delegation to persuade King George III of its virtues and ask for his sanction in the form of a royal charter, neither Parliament nor the governing bodies of the other colleges ever took Cooper's plan seriously.\n\nCooper, who was a conservative with Tory sympathies, did not take warmly to the growing revolutionary spirit in the colonies. He authored, with several other Anglican clergy in New York, political tracts arguing that all forms of resistance to the Crown constituted treason. His pamphlet \"A Friendly Address to all Reasonable Americans on our Political Confusions; in which the Necessary Consequences of violently opposing the King's Troops, and of a General Non-importation, are fairly stated\" was later answered in best-selling tracts by Alexander Hamilton and Charles Lee.\n\nFor his Loyalism, Cooper, along with other prominent New York Tories, were issued death threats admonishing them \"to flee for your lives, or anticipate your doom\". Of Cooper, in particular, this party evidenced a desire of \"seizing him in his bed, shaving his head, cutting off his ears, slitting his nose, stripping him naked, and setting him adrift\". In May 1775 Cooper was confronted by an angry mob from which he managed to escape by boarding a British naval ship anchored in New York harbor. Rumors persist that this was due to the assistance of Alexander Hamilton, though these have been shown to lack the weight of substantive evidence. Cooper fled to England that same month, where he engaged in numerous professions. His only subsequent association to America was his claim that he was owed pay for his tenure as college president, as well as a poem he composed about his flight.\n\nCooper died in Edinburgh, Scotland.\n\n"}
{"id": "41007190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41007190", "title": "Pandeism in Asia", "text": "Pandeism in Asia\n\nPandeism (or pan-deism), a theological doctrine which combines aspects of pantheism into deism, and holds that the creator deity became the universe and ceased to exist as a separate and conscious entity, has been noted by various authors to encompass many religious beliefs found in Asia, with examples primarily being drawn from India and China.\n\nPhysicist and philosopher Max Bernhard Weinstein in his 1910 work \"Welt- und Lebensanschauungen, Hervorgegangen aus Religion, Philosophie und Naturerkenntnis\" (\"World and Life Views, Emerging From Religion, Philosophy and Nature\"), presented the broadest and most far-reaching examination of pandeism written up to that point. Weinstein found varieties of pandeism in the religious views held in China, especially with respect to Taoism as expressed by Lao-Tze.\n\nPandeism (in Chinese, 泛自然神论) was described by Wen Chi, in a Peking University lecture, as embodying \"a major feature of Chinese philosophical thought,\" in that \"there is a harmony between man and the divine, and they are equal.\" Zhang Dao Kui (张道葵) of the China Three Gorges University proposed that the art of China's Three Gorges area is influenced by \"a representation of the romantic essence that is created when integrating rugged simplicity with the natural beauty spoken about by pandeism.\" Literary critic Wang Junkang (王俊康) has written that, in Chinese folk religion as conveyed in the early novels of noted folk writer Ye Mei (叶梅), \"the romantic spirit of Pandeism can be seen everywhere.\" Wang Junkang additionally writes of Ye Mei's descriptions of \"the worship of reproduction under Pandeism, as demonstrated in romantic songs sung by village people to show the strong impulse of vitality and humanity and the beauty of wildness.\" It has been noted that author Shen Congwen has attributed a kind of hysteria that \"afflicts those young girls who commit suicide by jumping into caves-\"luodong\" 落洞\" to \"the repressive local military culture that imposes strict sexual codes on women and to the influence of pan-deism among Miao people,\" since \"for a nymphomaniac, jumping into a cave leads to the ultimate union with the god of the cave\" (the cave being a metaphor for death itself).\n\nIn 1833, religionist Godfrey Higgins theorized in his \"Anacalypsis\" that \"Pandeism was a doctrine, which had been received both by Buddhists and Brahmins.\" In 1896, historian Gustavo Uzielli described the world's population as influenced \"by a superhuman idealism in Christianity, by an anti-human nihilism in Buddhism, and by an incipient but growing pandeism in Indian Brahmanism.\" But the following year, the Reverend Henry Grattan Guinness wrote critically that in India, \"God is everything, and everything is God, and, therefore, everything may be adored. ... Her pan-deism is a pandemonium.\" Likewise, twenty years earlier, in 1877, Peruvian scholar and historian Carlos Wiesse Portocarrero had written in an essay titled \"Philosophical Systems of India\" that in that country, \"Metaphysics is pandeistic and degenerates into idealism.\" Max Bernhard Weinstein also found Pandeism to be prevalent in India, especially in the Hindu Bhagavad Gita. In 2014, German political philosopher observed that Hindu pandeism (along with vegetarianism) has contributed to friction with monotheistic Islam.\n\nWeinstein similarly found the views of 17th century Japanese Neo-Confucian philosopher Yamazaki Ansai, who espoused a cosmology of universal mutual interconnectedness, to be especially consonant with pandeism. Because cosmologically everything was interconnected, Ansai believed that the actions of an individual (in a similar manner to modern chaos theory) affect the entire universe. He stressed the Confucian concept of \"Great Learning\", in which a person's actions (the center of a series of concentric circles) extend outward toward the family, society, and finally to the cosmos.\n\nCharles Anselm Bolton noted in a 1963 article, \"Beyond the Ecumenical: Pan-deism?\", that the Catholic Church intended to use pandeism as a sort of umbrella belief system under which to bring religions of Asia toward Catholicism. Bolton notes that \"To those familiar with the history of Roman Catholic missions in recent centuries, the idea of fraternization with oriental religions is not completely new,\" and that \"to unite with Hindus and Buddhists, Christians should explore the hidden reality—the “ultimate reality,” the infinite, the absolute, the everlasting, the all-pervading spirit that marks the religious experience of the Orient.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "730932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=730932", "title": "Performance status", "text": "Performance status\n\nIn medicine (oncology and other fields), performance status is an attempt to quantify cancer patients' general well-being and activities of daily life. This measure is used to determine whether they can receive chemotherapy, whether dose adjustment is necessary, and as a measure for the required intensity of palliative care. It is also used in oncological randomized controlled trials as a measure of quality of life.\n\nThere are various scoring systems. The most generally used are the Karnofsky score and the Zubrod score, the latter being used in publications by the WHO. For children, the Lansky score is used. Another common system is the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) system. Parallel scoring systems include the \"Global Assessment of Functioning\" (GAF) score, which has been incorporated as the fifth \"axis\" of the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual\" (DSM) of psychiatry.\n\nThe Karnofsky Performance Score (KPS) ranking runs from 100 to 0, where 100 is \"perfect\" health and 0 is death. Practitioners occasionally assign performance scores in between standard intervals of 10. This scoring system is named after Dr. David A. Karnofsky, who described the scale with Dr. Walter H. Abelmann, Dr. Lloyd F. Craver, and Dr. Joseph H. Burchenal in 1948. The primary purpose of its development was to allow physicians to evaluate a patient's ability to survive chemotherapy for cancer.\n\n\nThe Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) score (published by Oken \"et al.\" in 1982), also called the WHO or Zubrod score (after C. Gordon Zubrod), runs from 0 to 5, with 0 denoting perfect health and 5 death: Its advantage over the Karnofsky scale lies in its simplicity.\n\nChildren, who might have more trouble expressing their experienced quality of life, require a somewhat more observational scoring system suggested and validated by Lansky \"et al.\" in 1987:\n\nA translation between the Zubrod and Karnofsky scales that works especially well for healthy patients has been validated in a large sample of lung cancer patients:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1152135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1152135", "title": "Philippe Lacoue-Labarthe", "text": "Philippe Lacoue-Labarthe\n\nPhilippe Lacoue-Labarthe (; ; 6 March 1940 – 28 January 2007) was a French philosopher. He was also a literary critic and translator.\n\nLacoue-Labarthe was influenced by and wrote extensively on Martin Heidegger, Jacques Derrida, Jacques Lacan, German Romanticism, Paul Celan, and Gérard Granel. He also translated works by Heidegger, Celan, Friedrich Nietzsche, Friedrich Hölderlin, and Walter Benjamin into French.\n\nLacoue-Labarthe was a member and president of the Collège international de philosophie.\n\nLacoue-Labarthe wrote several books and articles in collaboration with Jean-Luc Nancy, a colleague at the Université Marc Bloch in Strasbourg. Early collaborations included \"Le Titre de la lettre: une lecture de Lacan\" (1973; trans., \"The Title of the Letter: A Reading of Lacan\") and \"L'Absolu littéraire: théorie de la littérature du romantisme allemand\" (1978; trans., \"The Literary Absolute: The Theory of Literature in German Romanticism\").\n\nIn 1980 Lacoue-Labarthe and Nancy organized a conference at Cerisy-la-Salle, centered around Derrida's 1968 paper \"Les fins de l'homme\". Following this conference and at Derrida's request, in November 1980 Lacoue-Labarthe and Nancy founded the \"Centre de recherches philosophiques sur le politique\" (Centre for Philosophical Research on the Political). The Centre operated for four years, pursuing philosophical rather than empirical approaches to political questions. During that period Lacoue-Labarthe and Nancy produced several important papers, together and separately. Some of these texts appear in \"Les Fins de l'homme à partir du travail de Jacques Derrida: colloque de Cerisy, 23 juillet-2 août 1980\" (1981), \"Rejouer le politique\" (1981), \"La retrait du politique\" (1983), and \"Le mythe nazi\" (1991, revised edition; originally published as \"Les méchanismes du fascisme\", 1981). Many of these texts are gathered in translation in \"Retreating the Political\" (1997).\n\nIn 1986 Lacoue-Labarthe published a book on Celan and Heidegger entitled \"La poésie comme expérience\" (1986; trans., \"Poetry as Experience\"). Lacoue-Labarthe received his \"doctorat d'état\" in 1987 with a jury led by Gérard Granel and including Derrida, George Steiner and Jean-François Lyotard. The monograph submitted for that degree was \"La fiction du politique\" (1988; trans., \"Heidegger, Art, and Politics\"), a study of Heidegger's relation to National Socialism. These works predate the explosion of interest in the political dimensions of Heidegger's thought which followed the publication of a book by Victor Farías.\n\nIn \"Poetry as Experience\" Lacoue-Labarthe argued that, even though Celan's poetry was deeply informed by Heidegger's philosophy, Celan was long aware of Heidegger's association with the Nazi party and therefore fundamentally circumspect toward the man and transformative in his reception of his work. Celan was nonetheless willing to meet Heidegger. Heidegger was a professed admirer of Celan's writing, although Celan's poetry never received the kind of philosophical attention which Heidegger gave to the work of poets such as Friedrich Hölderlin or Georg Trakl. Celan's poem \"Todtnauberg,\" however, seems to hold out the possibility of a rapprochement between their work. In this respect Heidegger's work was perhaps redeemable for Celan, even if that redemption was not played out in the encounter between the two men. \nLacoue-Labarthe considered that Heidegger's greatest failure was not his involvement in the National Socialist movement but his \"silence on the extermination\" and his refusal to engage in a thorough deconstruction of Nazism. He also believed, however, that Heidegger's thought offers pathways to a philosophical confrontation with Nazism, pathways which Heidegger failed to follow, but which Lacoue-Labarthe did attempt to pursue.\n\nLacoue-Labarthe was also involved in theatrical productions. He translated Hölderlin's version of \"Antigone\", and collaborated with to stage the work at the on June 15 and 30, 1978. Lacoue-Labarthe and Deutsch returned to the Théâtre national de Strasbourg to collaborate on a 1980 production of Euripdies' \"Phoenician Women\". Lacoue-Labarthe's translation of Hölderlin's version of \"Oedipus Rex\" was staged in Avignon in 1998, with Charles Berling in the title role.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> contents of this book do not correspond exactly to those of the book it otherwise translates\n\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> collects essays from 1979, 1981, and 1983 and others not previously published\n\n"}
{"id": "44723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44723", "title": "Printing", "text": "Printing\n\nPrinting is a process for reproducing text and images using a master form or template. The earliest non-paper products involving printing include cylinder seals and objects such as the Cyrus Cylinder and the Cylinders of Nabonidus. The earliest known form of printing as applied to paper was woodblock printing, which appeared in China before 220 A.D. Later developments in printing technology include the movable type invented by Bi Sheng around 1040 AD and the printing press invented by Johannes Gutenberg in the 15th century. The technology of printing played a key role in the development of the Renaissance and the scientific revolution, and laid the material basis for the modern knowledge-based economy and the spread of learning to the masses.\n\nWoodblock printing is a technique for printing text, images or patterns that was used widely throughout East Asia. It originated in China in antiquity as a method of printing on textiles and later on paper. As a method of printing on cloth, the earliest surviving examples from China date to before 220 A.D.\n\nThe earliest surviving woodblock printed fragments are from China. They are of silk printed with flowers in three colours from the Han Dynasty (before 220 A.D.). They are the earliest example of woodblock printing on paper appeared in the mid-seventh century in China.\n\nBy the ninth century, printing on paper had taken off, and the first extant complete printed book containing its date is the Diamond Sutra (British Library) of 868. By the tenth century, 400,000 copies of some sutras and pictures were printed, and the Confucian classics were in print. A skilled printer could print up to 2,000 double-page sheets per day.\n\nPrinting spread early to Korea and Japan, which also used Chinese logograms, but the technique was also used in Turpan and Vietnam using a number of other scripts. This technique then spread to Persia and Russia. This technique was transmitted to Europe via the Islamic world, and by around 1400 was being used on paper for old master prints and playing cards. However, Arabs never used this to print the Quran because of the limits imposed by Islamic doctrine.\n\nBlock printing, called \"tarsh\" in Arabic, developed in Arabic Egypt during the ninth and tenth centuries, mostly for prayers and amulets. There is some evidence to suggest that these print blocks made from non-wood materials, possibly tin, lead, or clay. The techniques employed are uncertain, however, and they appear to have had very little influence outside of the Muslim world. Though Europe adopted woodblock printing from the Muslim world, initially for fabric, the technique of metal block printing remained unknown in Europe. Block printing later went out of use in Islamic Central Asia after movable type printing was introduced from China.\n\nBlock printing first came to Europe as a method for printing on cloth, where it was common by 1300. Images printed on cloth for religious purposes could be quite large and elaborate. When paper became relatively easily available, around 1400, the medium transferred very quickly to small woodcut religious images and playing cards printed on paper. These prints produced in very large numbers from about 1425 onward.\n\nAround the mid-fifteenth-century, \"block-books\", woodcut books with both text and images, usually carved in the same block, emerged as a cheaper alternative to manuscripts and books printed with movable type. These were all short heavily illustrated works, the bestsellers of the day, repeated in many different block-book versions: the Ars moriendi and the Biblia pauperum were the most common. There is still some controversy among scholars as to whether their introduction preceded or, the majority view, followed the introduction of movable type, with the range of estimated dates being between about 1440 and 1460.\n\nMovable type is the system of printing and typography using movable pieces of metal type, made by casting from matrices struck by letterpunches. Movable type allowed for much more flexible processes than hand copying or block printing.\n\nAround 1040, the first known movable type system was created in China by Bi Sheng out of porcelain. Bi Sheng used clay type, which broke easily, but Wang Zhen by 1298 had carved a more durable type from wood. He also developed a complex system of revolving tables and number-association with written Chinese characters that made typesetting and printing more efficient. Still, the main method in use there remained woodblock printing (xylography), which \"proved to be cheaper and more efficient for printing Chinese, with its thousands of characters\".\n\nCopper movable type printing originated in China at the beginning of the 12th century. It was used in large-scale printing of paper money\nissued by the Northern Song dynasty. Movable type spread to Korea during the Goryeo dynasty.\n\nAround 1230, Koreans invented a metal type movable printing using bronze. The Jikji, published in 1377, is the earliest known metal printed book. Type-casting was used, adapted from the method of casting coins. The character was cut in beech wood, which was then pressed into a soft clay to form a mould, and bronze poured into the mould, and finally the type was polished. The Korean form of metal movable type was described by the French scholar Henri-Jean Martin as \"extremely similar to Gutenberg's\". Eastern metal movable type was spread to Europe between the late 14th century and the early 15th century.\n\nAround 1450, Johannes Gutenberg introduced the first movable type printing system in Europe. He advanced innovations in casting type based on a matrix and hand mould, adaptations to the screw-press, the use of an oil-based ink, and the creation of a softer and more absorbent paper. Gutenberg was the first to create his type pieces from an alloy of lead, tin, antimony, copper and bismuth – the same components still used today. Johannes Gutenberg started work on his printing press around 1436, in partnership with Andreas Dritzehen – whom he had previously instructed in gem-cutting – and Andreas Heilmann, the owner of a paper mill.\n\nCompared to woodblock printing, movable type page setting and printing using a press was faster and more durable. Also, the metal type pieces were sturdier and the lettering more uniform, leading to typography and fonts. The high quality and relatively low price of the Gutenberg Bible (1455) established the superiority of movable type for Western languages. The printing press rapidly spread across Europe, leading up to the Renaissance, and later all around the world. \n\nGutenberg's innovations in movable type printing have been called the most important invention of the second millennium.\n\nThe rotary printing press was invented by Richard March Hoe in 1843. It uses impressions curved around a cylinder to print on long continuous rolls of paper or other substrates. Rotary drum printing was later significantly improved by William Bullock.\n\nThe table lists the maximum number of pages which various press designs could print \"per hour\".\n\nAll printing process are concerned with two kinds of areas on the final output:\n\nAfter the information has been prepared for production (the prepress step), each printing process has definitive means of separating the image from the non-image areas.\n\nConventional printing has four types of process:\n\nLetterpress printing is a technique of relief printing. A worker composes and locks movable type into the bed of a press, inks it, and presses paper against it to transfer the ink from the type which creates an impression on the paper.\n\nLetterpress printing was the normal form of printing text from its invention by Johannes Gutenberg in the mid-15th century and remained in wide use for books and other uses until the second half of the 20th century, when offset printing was developed. More recently, letterpress printing has seen a revival in an artisanal form.\n\nOffset printing is a widely used printing technique. Offset printing is where the inked image is transferred (or \"offset\") from a plate to a rubber blanket. An offset transfer moves the image to the printing surface. When used in combination with the lithographic process, a process based on the repulsion of oil and water; the offset technique employs a flat (planographic) image carrier. So, the image to be printed obtains ink from ink rollers, while the non-printing area attracts a film of water, keeping the non-printing areas ink-free.\n\nCurrently, most books and newspapers are printed using the technique of offset lithography.\n\nGravure printing is an intaglio printing technique, where the image being printed is made up of small depressions in the surface of the printing plate. The cells are filled with ink, and the excess is scraped off the surface with a doctor blade. Then a rubber-covered roller presses paper onto the surface of the plate and into contact with the ink in the cells. The printing cylinders are usually made from copper plated steel, which is subsequently chromed, and may be produced by diamond engraving; etching, or laser ablation.\n\nGravure printing is used for long, high-quality print runs such as magazines, mail-order catalogues, packaging and printing onto fabric and wallpaper. It is also used for printing postage stamps and decorative plastic laminates, such as kitchen worktops.\n\nThe other significant printing techniques include:\n\n\nIt is estimated that following the innovation of Gutenberg's printing press, the European book output rose from a few million to around one billion copies within a span of less than four centuries.\n\nSamuel Hartlib, who was exiled in Britain and enthusiastic about social and cultural reforms, wrote in 1641 that \"the art of printing will so spread knowledge that the common people, knowing their own rights and liberties, will not be governed by way of oppression\".\n\nIn the Muslim world, printing, especially in Arabic scripts, was strongly opposed throughout the early modern period, though sometimes printing in Hebrew or Armenian script was permitted. Thus the first movable type printing in the Ottoman Empire was in Hebrew in 1493. According to an imperial ambassador to Istanbul in the middle of the sixteenth century, it was a sin for the Turks to print religious books. In 1515, Sultan Selim I issued a decree under which the practice of printing would be punishable by death. At the end of the sixteenth century, Sultan Murad III permitted the sale of non-religious printed books in Arabic characters, yet the majority were imported from Italy. Ibrahim Muteferrika\nestablished the first press for printing in Arabic in the Ottoman Empire, against opposition from the calligraphers and parts of the Ulama. It operated until 1742, producing altogether seventeen works, all of which were concerned with non-religious, utilitarian matters. Printing did not become common in the Islamic world until the 19th century.\n\nJews were banned from German printing guilds; as a result Hebrew printing sprang up in Italy, beginning in 1470 in Rome, then spreading to other cities including Bari, Pisa, Livorno, and Mantua. Local rulers had the authority to grant or revoke licenses to publish Hebrew books, and many of those printed during this period carry the words 'con licenza de superiori' (indicating their printing having been licensed by the censor) on their title pages.\n\nIt was thought that the introduction of the printing medium 'would strengthen religion and enhance the power of monarchs.' The majority of books were of a religious nature, with the church and crown regulating the content. The consequences of printing 'wrong' material were extreme. Meyrowitz used the example of William Carter who in 1584 printed a pro-Catholic pamphlet in Protestant-dominated England. The consequence of his action was hanging.\n\nPrint gave a broader range of readers access to knowledge and enabled later generations to build directly on the intellectual achievements of earlier ones without the changes arising within verbal traditions. Print, according to Acton in his lecture \"On the Study of History\" (1895), gave \"assurance that the work of the Renaissance would last, that what was written would be accessible to all, that such an occultation of knowledge and ideas as had depressed the Middle Ages would never recur, that not an idea would be lost\".\n\nPrint was instrumental in changing the nature of reading within society.\n\nElizabeth Eisenstein identifies two long-term effects of the invention of printing. She claims that print created a sustained and uniform reference for knowledge as well as allowing for comparison between incompatible views.\n\nAsa Briggs and Peter Burke identify five kinds of reading that developed in relation to the introduction of print:\n\nThe invention of printing also changed the occupational structure of European cities. Printers emerged as a new group of artisans for whom literacy was essential, although the much more labour-intensive occupation of the scribe naturally declined. Proof-correcting arose as a new occupation, while a rise in the amount of booksellers and librarians naturally followed the explosion in the numbers of books.\n\nGutenberg's printing press had profound impacts on universities as well. Universities were influenced in their \"language of scholarship, libraries, curriculum, [and] pedagogy\" \n\nBefore the invention of the printing press, most written material was in Latin. However, after the invention of printing the number of books printed expanded as well as the vernacular. Latin was not replaced completely, but remained an international language until the eighteenth century.\n\nAt this time, universities began establishing accompanying libraries. \"Cambridge made the chaplain responsible for the library in the fifteenth century but this position was abolished in 1570 and in 1577 Cambridge established the new office of university librarian. Although, the University of Leuven did not see a need for a university library based on the idea that professor were the library. Libraries also began receiving so many books from gifts and purchases that they began to run out of room. This issue was solved, however, by a man named Merton (1589) who decided books should be stacked horizontally on shelves.\n\nThe printed press changed university libraries in many ways. Professors were finally able to compare the opinions of different authors rather than being forced to look at only one or two specific authors. Textbooks themselves were also being printed in different levels of difficulty, rather than just one introductory text being made available.\n\nBy 2005, Digital printing accounts for approximately 9% of the 45 trillion pages printed annually around the world.\n\nPrinting at home, an office, or an engineering environment is subdivided into:\n\nSome of the more common printing technologies are:\n\n\nVendors typically stress the total cost to operate the equipment, involving complex calculations that include all cost factors involved in the operation as well as the capital equipment costs, amortization, etc. For the most part, toner systems are more economical than inkjet in the long run, even though inkjets are less expensive in the initial purchase price.\n\nProfessional digital printing (using toner) primarily uses an electrical charge to transfer toner or liquid ink to the substrate onto which it is printed. Digital print quality has steadily improved from early color and black and white copiers to sophisticated colour digital presses such as the Xerox iGen3, the Kodak Nexpress, the HP Indigo Digital Press series, and the InfoPrint 5000. The iGen3 and Nexpress use toner particles and the Indigo uses liquid ink. The InfoPrint 5000 is a full-color, continuous forms inkjet drop-on-demand printing system. All handle variable data, and rival offset in quality. Digital offset presses are also called direct imaging presses, although these presses can receive computer files and automatically turn them into print-ready plates, they cannot insert variable data.\n\nSmall press and fanzines generally use digital printing. Prior to the introduction of cheap photocopying the use of machines such as the spirit duplicator, hectograph, and mimeograph was common.\n\n3D printing is a form of manufacturing technology where physical objects are created from three-dimensional digital models using 3D printers. The objects are created by laying down or building up many thin layers of material in succession. The technique is also known as additive manufacturing, rapid prototyping, or fabricating.\n\nGang run printing is a method in which multiple printing projects are placed on a common paper sheet in an effort to reduce printing costs and paper waste. Gang runs are generally used with sheet-fed printing presses and CMYK process color jobs, which require four separate plates that are hung on the plate cylinder of the press. Printers use the term \"gang run\" or \"gang\" to describe the practice of placing many print projects on the same oversized sheet. Basically, instead of running one postcard that is 4 x 6 as an individual job the printer would place 15 different postcards on 20 x 18 sheet therefore using the same amount of press time the printer will get 15 jobs done in the roughly the same amount of time as one job.\n\nPrinted electronics is the manufacturing of electronic devices using standard printing processes. Printed electronics technology can be produced on cheap materials such as paper or flexible film, which makes it an extremely cost-effective method of production. Since early 2010, the printable electronics industry has been gaining momentum and several large companies, including Bemis Company and Illinois Tool Works have made investments in printed electronics and industry associations including OE-A and FlexTech Alliance are contributing heavily to the advancement of the printed electronics industry.\n\nPrinting terminologies are the specific terms used in printing industry.\nFollowing is the list of printing terminologies.\n\nOn the effects of Gutenberg's printing\n\nEarly printers manuals\nThe classic manual of early hand-press technology is\n\n"}
{"id": "36749202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36749202", "title": "Progressive illumination", "text": "Progressive illumination\n\nProgressive illumination is a theological concept describing the hermeneutical practice of orthodox theological development, most notably in Christianity; though the practice exists in many religions, especially Abrahamic religions. The term is used mostly among Christian theologians. It is distinct from progressive revelation in that it does not describe the reception from God of new divine texts, or any novel concept that has no accepted foundation. Rather it describes God-given understanding of existing revelation in a better and more accurate way. It usually refers to understanding a biblical concept better, but the term also encompasses understanding creation better, even through scientific inquiry.\n"}
{"id": "54431682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54431682", "title": "Relational constructivism", "text": "Relational constructivism\n\nRelational constructivism can be perceived as a relational consequence of the radical constructivism. In contrary to social constructivism, it picks up the epistemological threads and maintains the radical constructivist idea that humans cannot overcome their limited conditions of reception (i.e. \"self referentially operating cognition\"). Therefore, humans are not able to come to objective conclusions about the world.\n\nIn spite of the subjectivity of human constructions of reality, relational constructivism focusses on the relational conditions applying to human perceptional processes. Björn Kraus puts it in a nutshell:\n\nIn the course of recent constructivist discourses a discussion about the lifeworld term took place as well. Björn Kraus' relational-constructivist version of the lifeworld term considers its phenomenological roots (Husserl and Schütz), but expands it within the range of epistemological constructivist theory building. In consequence, a new approach is created, which is not only focusing on the individual perspective upon the lifeworld term, but is also taking account of social and material environmental conditions and their relevance as emphasized for example by Habermas. Essential therefore is Kraus' basic assumption that cognitive development depends on two determining factors. On the one hand a person's own reality is her subjective construct. On the other hand, this construct—in spite of all subjectivity—is not random: Since a person is still linked to her environment, her own reality is influenced by the conditions of this environment (German \"Grundsätzliche Doppelbindung menschlicher Strukturentwicklung\").\n\nBuilding up on this point of view, a separation of individual perception and the social and material environmental conditions is made possible. Kraus accordingly picks up the lifeworld term, adds the term \"life conditions\" (German \"Lebenslage\") and opposes the two terms to each other.\n\nBy this means, lifeworld describes a person's subjectively experienced world, whereas life conditions describe the person's actual circumstances in life. Accordingly, it could be said that a person's lifeworld is built depending on their particular life conditions. More precisely, the life conditions include the material and immaterial living circumstances as for example employment situation, availability of material resources, housing conditions, social environment (friends, foes, acquaintances, relatives, etc.) as well as the persons physical condition (fat/thin, tall/small, female/male, healthy/sick, etc.). The lifeworld, in contrast, describes the subjective perception of these conditions.\n\nKraus uses the epistemological distinction between subjective reality and objective reality. Thus, a person's lifeworld correlates with the person's life conditions in the same way than subjective reality correlates with objective reality. The one is the insurmountable, subjective construct built depending on the other one's conditions.\n\nKraus defined lifeworld and life conditions as follows:\n\nThis contrasting comparison provides a conceptual specification, enabling in the first step the distinction between a subjectively experienced world and its material and social conditions and allowing in the second step to focus on these conditions' relevance for the subjective construction of reality.\n\nWith this in mind, Manfred Ferdinand, who is reviewing the lifeworld terms used by Alfred Schütz, Edmund Husserl, Björn Kraus and Ludwig Wittgenstein, concludes: Kraus' \"thoughts on a constructivist comprehension of lifeworlds contours the integration of micro-, meso- and macroscopic approaches, as it is demanded by Invernizzi and Butterwege: This integration is not only necessary in order to relate the subjective perspectives and the objective frame conditions to each other but also because the objective frame conditions obtain their relevance for the subjective lifeworlds not before they are perceived and assessed.\"\n\nBjörn Kraus deals with the epistemological perspective upon power regarding the question about possibilities of interpersonal influence by developing a special form of constructivism (\"Machtanalytischer Konstruktivismus\").\n\nInstead of focussing on the valuation and distribution of power, he asks first and foremost what the term can describe at all. Coming from Max Weber's definition of power, he realizes that the term of power has to be split into \"instructive power\" and \"destructive power\".\n\nMore precisely, instructive power means the chance to determine the actions and thoughts of another person, whereas destructive power means the chance to diminish the opportunities of another person.\n\nKraus defined \"instructive power\" and \"destructive power\" as follows:\n\nHow significant this distinction really is, becomes evident by looking at the possibilities of rejecting power attempts: Rejecting instructive power is possible – rejecting destructive power is not. By using this distinction, proportions of power can be analyzed in a more sophisticated way, helping to sufficiently reflect on matters of responsibility. This perspective permits to get over an \"either-or-position\" (either there is power, or there isn't), which is common especially in epistemological discourses about power theories, and to introduce the possibility of an \"as well as-position\".\n\nAs Wolf Ritscher says, it is Björn Kraus who “has reflected on the topic of power as a substantial aspect of social existence in a constructivist manner and has shown that constructivism can also be used in terms of social theory”.\n"}
{"id": "52035827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52035827", "title": "Seth Baum", "text": "Seth Baum\n\nSeth Baum is an American researcher involved in the field of risk. He is the executive director of the Global Catastrophic Risk Institute (GCRI), a think tank focused on existential risk. He is also affiliated with the Blue Marble Space Institute of Science and the Columbia University Center for Research on Environmental Decisions.\n\nBaum obtained his BS in optics and mathematics in 2007 at the University of Rochester, followed by an MS in Electrical Engineering, Northeastern University in 2006.\n\nIn 2012, he obtained his Ph.D in Geography with his dissertation on climate change policy: \"Discounting Across Space and Time in Climate Change Assessment\" from Pennsylvania State University. Later, he completed a post-doctoral fellowship with the Columbia University Center for Research on Environmental Decisions. Baum the steered his research interests into astrophysics and global risks, including global warming and nuclear war, and the development of effective solutions for reducing them.\n\nFurthermore, he is a Fellow of the Society for Risk Analysis and is an Affiliate Scholar for the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies.\n\nAs a graduate student in Northstrom, Boston, Baum contributed to the Whats Up magazine (now Spare Change News), from 2004 to 2007.\n\nIn 2011, Baum co-founded GCRI along with Tony Barrett, with the mission to \"develop the best ways to confront humanity's gravest threats\". The institute has since grown rapidly, publishing in peer-reviewed academic journals and media outlets. As of 2016, its main work is on the \"Integrated Assessment Project\", which assesses all the global catastrophic risks in order to make them available for societal learning and decision making processes. GCRI is funded by \"a mix of grants, private donations, and occasional consulting work.\n\nTwo years later, Baum hosted a regular blog on Scientific American and has been interviewed about his work and research in the History Channel and the O'Reilly Factor., where he was asked about studying possible human contact with extraterrestrial life and the ethics involved. He also started contributing regularly to \"The Huffington Post\", writing about the Ukrainian crisis and the Syrian Civil War as possible scenarios for nuclear war.\n\nIn 2016, after receiving a 100,000 dollar grant from the Future of Life Institute his research interests shifted to AI safety and the ethics of outer space. That same year, he wrote a monthly column for the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, where he discussed AI threats, biological weapons and the risks of nuclear deterrence failure.\n\n"}
{"id": "44548625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44548625", "title": "Sheffield school", "text": "Sheffield school\n\nThe Sheffield school is an approach in biblical studies that engages in literary readings of the final form of the biblical text. It is named after the University of Sheffield, where David J. A. Clines and David M. Gunn pioneered the approach. The phrase was coined by Tremper Longman in 1987.\n\nThe approach is also associated with the \"Journal for the Study of the Old Testament\". The Sheffield school is known for its use of formalism.\n"}
{"id": "3927973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3927973", "title": "Skinwalker Ranch", "text": "Skinwalker Ranch\n\nSkinwalker Ranch, also known as Sherman Ranch, is a property located on approximately southeast of Ballard, Utah that is allegedly the site of paranormal and UFO-related activities. Its name is taken from the skin-walker of Navajo legend concerning malevolent witches.\n\nClaims about the ranch first appeared in the Salt Lake City, Utah \"Deseret News\", and later in the alternative weekly \"Las Vegas Mercury\" as a series of articles by journalist George Knapp. These early stories detailed the claims that a family that had recently purchased and occupied the property only to experience an array of inexplicable and frightening events.\n\nColm Kelleher and co-author George Knapp subsequently authored a book in which they describe the ranch being acquired by the National Institute for Discovery Science (NIDSci) to study anecdotal sightings of UFOs, bigfoot-like creatures, crop circles, glowing orbs and poltergeist activity reported by its former owners.\n\nThe ranch, located in west Uintah County bordering the Ute Indian Reservation, was popularly dubbed the UFO ranch due to its ostensible 50-year history of odd events said to have taken place there. Knapp and Kelleher cite the 1974 book \"The Utah UFO Display: A Scientist's Report\" by Frank Salisbury and Joseph \"Junior\" Hicks, which details an earlier investigation into alleged UFO sightings in the Uintah County region, as partial confirmation of their account. According to Kelleher and Knapp, they saw or investigated evidence of close to 100 incidents that include vanishing and mutilated cattle, sightings of unidentified flying objects or orbs, large animals with piercing red eyes that they say were not injured when struck by bullets, and invisible objects emitting destructive magnetic fields. Among those involved were retired US Army Colonel John B. Alexander who characterized the NIDSci effort as an attempt to get hard data using a \"standard scientific approach\". However, the investigators admitted to \"difficulty obtaining evidence consistent with scientific publication.\" Cattle mutilations have been part of the folklore of the surrounding area for decades, but NIDSci founder Robert Bigelow's purchase of the ranch and investigation funding was reportedly the result of his being convinced by stories of mutilations that included tales of strange lights and unusual impressions made in grass and soil told by the family of former ranch owner Terry Sherman.\n\nIn 1996, skeptic James Randi awarded Bigelow a Pigasus Award for funding the purchase of the ranch by Harvard professor John Mack and author Bud Hopkins, for what Randi called a \"useless study of a supernatural, paranormal or occult\".\n\nThe ranch was sold by Bigelow to a private corporation Adamantium Real Estate, LLC in 2016. In 2017, the name \"Skinwalker Ranch\" was filed for trademark through Justia Trademarks. The trademark was issued in 2018.\n\nA 2013 film entitled \"Skinwalker Ranch\" is loosely based upon the folklore surrounding the ranch.\n\n"}
{"id": "27291768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27291768", "title": "Spiritual Communion", "text": "Spiritual Communion\n\nSpiritual Communion is a Christian practice of desiring union with Jesus Christ in the Holy Eucharist. It is used as a preparation for Holy Mass and by individuals who cannot receive Holy Communion.\n\nThis practice is well established in the Catholic Church and highly recommended by many saints, according to Pope John Paul II. He explained that practicing this constant desire for Jesus in the Eucharist is rooted in the ultimate perfection of Eucharistic communion, which is the ultimate goal of every human desire.\n\nSt. Thomas Aquinas defined Spiritual Communion as “an ardent desire to receive Jesus in the Holy Sacrament and a loving embrace as though we had already received Him.”\n\nThe basis of this practice was explained by Pope John Paul II in his encyclical, \"Ecclesia de Eucharistia\":\n\nThus, the passionate desire for God, whom the saints have seen as the Sole Satisfier, and who in the Eucharist is the \"summit and source of the Christian life\", is at the root of this practice. The experience of St. Padre Pio illustrates the compelling desire felt by the saints in the face of the drawing and attracting power of God's love: “My heart feels as if it were being drawn by a superior force each morning just before uniting with Him in the Blessed Sacrament. I have such a thirst and hunger before receiving Him that it's a wonder I don't die of anxiety. I was hardly able to reach the Divine Prisoner in order to celebrate Mass. When Mass ended I remained with Jesus to render Him thanks. My thirst and hunger do not diminish after I have received Him in the Blessed Sacrament, but rather, increase steadily. Oh, how sweet was the conversation I held with Paradise this morning. The heart of Jesus and my own, if you will pardon the expression, fused. They were no longer two hearts beating but only one. My heart disappeared as if it were a drop in the ocean.”\n\nSt. Jean-Marie Vianney compared spiritual communion to blowing on fire and embers that are starting to go out in order to make them burn again: “There are some who make a spiritual communion every day with blessed bread. If we are deprived of Sacramental Communion, let us replace it, as far as we can, by spiritual communion, which we can make every moment; for we ought to have always a burning desire to receive the good God. Communion is to the soul like blowing a fire that is beginning to go out, but that has still plenty of hot embers; we blow, and the fire burns again. After the reception of the Sacraments, when we feel ourselves slacken in the love of God, let us have recourse at once to spiritual communion. When we cannot go to the church, let us turn towards the tabernacle; no wall can shut us out from the good God.”\n\nSt. Josemaría Escrivá taught spiritual communions improve presence of God: \"What a source of grace there is in spiritual Communion! Practise it frequently and you'll have more presence of God and closer union with him in your life.\" He also taught: \"Do not neglect to say, “Jesus, I love you”, and make one spiritual communion, at least, each day, in atonement for all the profanations and sacrileges he suffers because he wants to be with us.\"\n\nAccording to Catholic theologians, the value of a spiritual can be as great as Holy Communion itself. \"Spiritual Communion, as St. Thomas Aquinas and St. Alphonsus Liguori teach, produces effects similar to Sacramental Communion, according to the dispositions with which it is made, the greater or less earnestness with which Jesus is desired, and the greater or less love with which Jesus is welcomed and given due attention,\" stated Father Stefano Manelli, O.F.M. Conv., S.T.D., in his book \"Jesus our Eucharistic Love\".\n\n\"A special advantage of Spiritual Communion is that we can make it as often as we like — even hundreds of times a day — when we like — even late at night — and wherever we like — even in a desert, or up in an airplane,\" Fr. Stefano continued.\n\nHowever, Anglican bishop Cecil Wood, cautions that \"It would not be right to use this devotion of Spiritual Communion when the Sacramental Communion could be readily obtained. Care will be taken that neither unwillingness to rise in the morning nor slackness in preparing for Communion lead to the substitution of this devotion for the Church's service. That God in His love provides many special means of Grace can never be sufficient warrant for neglecting the normal means.\"\n\nThose who are aware of a mortal sin that needs to be confessed, can reach out to God through spiritual communion.\n\nAccording to the official Catholic handbook (enchiridion) for indulgences, \"an Act of Spiritual Communion, according to any pious formula, is enriched with a partial indulgence.\"\n\nIt also specifically mentions this \"Act of Spiritual Communion\", which was recommended by St. Alphonsus Ligouri:\n\nCardinal Rafael Merry del Val composed this Spiritual Communion:\n\nAnother example is:\n\nPiarist fathers have taught this short act of Spiritual Communion, popularized by St. Josemaria Escriva:\n\nPrayers taken from the \"A Form of Spiritual Communion\" of the Diocese of Malaita of the Anglican Communion are as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "1017009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1017009", "title": "Surat Shabd Yoga", "text": "Surat Shabd Yoga\n\nSurat Shabd Yoga or Surat Shabda Yoga is a type of spiritual yoga practice in the Sant Mat tradition.\n\n\"Surat\" is \"attention\" or \"face\", that is, an outward expression of the soul; \"Shabd\" or \"Shabda\" has multiple meanings including ‘sacred song’, ‘word’, ‘voice’, ‘hymn’, ‘verse’, or ‘sound current, ‘audible life stream’, and the ‘essence of the Absolute Supreme Being’. The Absolute Supreme Being is a dynamic force of creative energy sent out into the abyss of space at the dawn of the universe's manifestation, as sound vibrations. These vibrations continue and are sent forth through the ages, framing all things that constitute and inhabit the universe. \"Yoga\" is literally ‘union’, or ‘to yoke’. Etymologically, \"Surat Shabd Yoga\" means the ‘Union of the Soul with the Essence of the Absolute Supreme Being’.\n\n\"Surat Shabda Yoga\" is also known as \"Sehaj Yoga\" – the path leading to \"Sehaj\" or equipoise, The Path of Light and Sound, The Path of the \"Sants or\" 'Saints', The Journey of Soul, and The Yoga of the Sound Current.\n\n\"Surat Shabda Yoga\" is for the discovery of \"True Self\" (Self-Realization), \"True Essence\" (Spirit-Realization), and \"True Divinity\" (God-Realization) while living in the human physical body. This involves reuniting in stages with what is called the \"Essence of the Absolute Supreme Being\", also known as the \"Shabd or Word\". Attaining this extent of self-realization is believed to result in \"jivan\" \"moksha/mukti\", which is liberation/release from \"samsara\" and positivity in the cycle of karma and reincarnation. Initiation by a contemporary living \"Satguru\" (Sat - true, Guru - teacher) is considered a prerequisite for successful \"sadhana\" (spiritual exercises). The \"sadhanas\" include \"simran\" (repetition, particularly silent repetition of a \"mantra\" given at initiation), \"dhyan\" (concentration, viewing, or contemplation, particularly on the Inner Master), and \"bhajan\" (listening to the inner sounds of the \"Shabd\"). The mantra is Guru Manter. These are some verbal words that one gets from living masters and chants in mind, not with the mouth. As the language varies from culture to culture, Guru Manter or Mantra may also vary from culture to culture in spirituality. On the other hand, Naam or Word of God or Kalma is unspeakable, alive and no one can write it on paper. In the new testament \"Hebrews 4:12\" states, \"For the Word of God is living and active. Sharper than any double-edged sword, it pierces even to dividing soul and spirit, joints and marrow. It judges the thoughts and intentions of the heart.\" Words which we write on paper are not alive and active those words varies from culture to culture. Some years ago there was no any man-made language existing but according to scripture the word of God is existing since the beginning of the world. \n\nSurat Shabd Yoga arose in India in the last several hundred years, specifically in the Sikh tradition (Nanakpanthi) founded by Guru Nanak. The practice of meditation (Shabad), which is the central core practice of Surat Shabd Yoga, is derived from the ancient Hindu practice of \"nāda yoga\". \"Nada yoga\" is expounded in various Hindu scriptures such as the Nadabindu Upanishad, an ancient text affiliated with the several thousands-year-old Rig Veda. The practice of \"nāda yoga\" within Hinduism has been widely affiliated within many yoga traditions including \"bhakti\" or devotional yoga, \"kundalini\" and \"tantric yogas\", \"laya yoga\", and \"raja yoga\". Modern Hindu teachers still emphasizing \"nada yoga\" include Swami Sivananda, Swami Rama, Rammurti Mishra (Shri Brahmananda Sarasvati), Paramahansa Yogananda (Kriya Yoga Lineage), and many others. The practice of \"nāda yoga\" is an integral part of various other traditions as well, such as being a form of the advanced \"thogal\" practice in the Tibetan Dzogchen lineage, and is mentioned by H. P. Blavatsky, founder of the Theosophical Society in her book \"The Voice of the Silence\". The form of Surat Shabd Yoga, practiced by followers of Sant Mat and the Sikh tradition (\"nanakpanthi\"), is most commonly related to \"nāda yoga\". Furthermore, \"nāda yoga\" resembles and combines elements from the Hindu practices of \"raja yoga\", \"laya yoga\", and \"bhakti yoga\".\n\nAdherents believe Surat Shabda Yoga has been expressed through the movements of many different masters. However, a basic principle of Surat Shabd Yoga's tradition is the requirement for an outer Living Master to initiate followers onto the Path. The movements whose historical Satgurus have died and their successors do not purport themselves to be Surat Shabd Yoga Satgurus, usually are not considered currently to be Surat Shabd Yoga movements, either by their own leaders or by movements with current Living Masters.\n\nSatguru Maharshi Mehi Paramahansa Ji Maharaj is considered the movement leader in the 20th century. He came to an isolated cave of Kuppaghat, Bhagalpur (Bihar, India) and practiced Surat-Shabda Yoga from March 1933 - November 1934. He achieved self-realization and attained ultimate salvation during his practice. He wrote books \"Moksha-Darshan (Philosophy of Salvation), \"Satsang-Yoga\", \"Shri Gita-Yoga Prakash\", \"Raamcharit Maanas Saar-Satik\", \"Maharshi-Mehi-Padaawali\" and \"Maharshi-Mehi-Padawaali\".\n\nThe Radhasoami movement of Surat Shabda Yoga was established by Shiv Dayal Singh (1818–1878) in 1861 and named \"Radhasoami Satsang\" circa 1866. Soamiji Maharaj, as he was known, presided over the satsang meetings for seventeen years at Panni Gali and Soami Bagh in Agra, India, until he died on June 15, 1878. Accounts of his guru and successors vary, although he gave verbal instructions on his last day as to how his followers should be cared for. According to Radha Soami Satsang Beas, his guru was Tulsi Sahib of Hathras. According to the successors Soami Bagh and Dayal Bagh, Tulsi Sahib was a contemporary guru of the same teachings; but being a natural born Satguru, Shiv Dayal Singh himself had no guru.\n\nAfter his death, six immediate successors carried on Shiv Dayal Singh’s teachings, including Huzur Maharaj Rai Salig Ram of Peepal Mandi, Agra, and Babaji Maharaj Jaimal Singh of Dera Baba Jaimal Singh the present day headquarters of (RSSB), Radha Soami Satsang Beas. More information on living masters related to Shiv Dayal Singh's lineage can be found in the Contemporary Sant Mat movement article.\n\nSant Kirpal Singh, a contemporary Sant Mat guru, and other gurus who got the success stated that \"Naam\" (\"Word\") has been described in many traditions through the use of several different terms in different languages. In his teachings, the following expressions are interpreted as being identical to \"Naam\":\n\nThe more recently promulgated Quan Yin Method of meditation espoused via the spiritual teachings of Supreme Master Ching Hai has notable similarities to Surat Shabd Yoga.\n\nEckankar, an American movement, has many links to Surat Shabd Yoga including terminology, although its American founder Paul Twitchell disassociated himself from his former teacher Kirpal Singh.\n\nThe Movement of Spiritual Inner Awareness, also founded in America in 1971 by John-Roger and now with students in thirty-two countries, also teaches a similar form of active meditation called \"spiritual exercises\". This movement uses the Sound Current and ancient Sanskrit tones in order to traverse and return to the higher realms of Spirit and into God.\n\nMasterPath is another contemporary American movement of Surat Shabda Yoga. Gary Olsen, the current Living Master of this branch, contends that several historical figures are Sat Gurus of Surat Shabda Yoga as representatives for the eternal Inner Shabda Master. A few of these Living Masters of their times include Lao Tsu, Jesus, Pythagoras, Socrates, Kabir, the Sufi Masters, and mystic poets, Hafez and Rumi, the Ten Sikh Gurus beginning with Guru Nanak, Tulsi Sahib, and the Radhasoami/Radha Soami and offshoot Masters, including Shiv Dayal Singh, Baba Sawan Singh, Baba Faqir Chand, and Sant Kirpal Singh.\n\nThe ten Sikh Satgurus (Nanak Panthis) discuss the inner sound and inner light a lot in their scriptures. The first Sikh Satguru was Guru Nanak, but his master (guru) was Waheguru. These masters teach these two techniques. There is a master, Satpal Maharaj, that teaches four techniques that include these two of inner light and inner music. Altogether He teaches inner light (sight), inner music (hearing), primordial vibration (sense of touch), and nectar (taste and smell).\n\nThese correspond to the five senses, and this is how a student turns them inward to experience what is inside of himself. See Vishnu with his four arms and they correspond to these. One hand is holding a circle (chakra) of light, one holding a conch shell for the inner sound (hold it to the ear and a sound is heard), one holding a lotus flower to refer to nectar, and finally the fourth hand is holding a metal club (mace) for the inner vibration (if you hit something with it, it vibrates like a tuning fork). Some people refer to this inner energy as the soul.\n\nTwo of the names above were changed. Below the same paragraph is written again with the new names based on Wikipedia sources.\n\nThe ten Sikh Satgurus talk about the inner sound and inner light a lot in their scriptures. The first Sikh Satguru was Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji, but people believe his master was Waheguru. However, according to history during the True merchandise(ਸਚਾ ਸਉਦਾ) Guru Nanak Dev Ji, interacted with some living masters and term Waheguru is a combination of two words that is Wahh and Guru. Wahh is the praise (i.e awesome or wonderful), Guru means a teacher, full expression is \"Satt Naam WahhGuru\" which means \"Oh Wonderful teacher, Naam or Word is the truth.\" Wikipedia says: \"Kabir's early life is not firmly established.[7]:14 In Indian tradition, he is commonly supposed to have lived for 120 years from 1398 to 1518, which \"permits him to be associated with other famous figures such as Guru Nanak.\"But none of this is written anywhere or proved yet both personalities used Gurmukhi for writing 'Bani'.\n\nTHE LINE OF SUCCESSION FROM KABIR TO PRESENT \nFrom Kabir to present, the Masters of the Divine Science of Light and Sound appear and manifest themselves as an uninterrupted line, through which they transmitted to each successor the one knowledge and the one Power. Subsequently, we can trace an \nexact \"family tree\" from Kabir Sahib (1398-1518) to Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji (1469-1539) and further as shown below:\n\nਹੁਕਮੁ ਪਛਾਨੈ ਸੁ ਏਕੋ ਜਾਨੈ ਬੰਦਾ ਕਹੀਐ ਸੋਈ॥੩॥ (GGSG-Page No.1350-3)...Saint Kabir \nTranslation: One who will recognize the Command (Hukam), will know One Lord, we call him the real man.\n\nਸਚਾ ਸਉਦਾ ਹਰਿ ਨਾਮੁ ਹੈ ਸਚਾ ਵਾਪਾਰਾ ਰਾਮ॥ (GGSG-Page No.570) \nTranslation: The True merchandise(ਸਚਾ ਸਉਦਾ) is the Lord`s Naam. Trader Raam is the truth. \n\nAbove line in the book \"Guru Granth Sahib Ji\" verifies that during the true merchandise (ਸਚਾ ਸਉਦਾ) when Guru Nanak Dev Ji fed the hungry saints and he got the Naam from them. Whereas in books when we read the history of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, we find no information regarding true merchandise of Word or Naam of God. This line also verifies that Guru Nanak Dev Ji also interacted with living SattGuru where from he got the Naam. \n\nਏਕੋ ਨਾਮੁ ਹੁਕਮੁ ਹੈ ਨਾਨਕ ਸਿਤਗੁਿਰ ਦੀਆ ਬੁਝਾਇ ਜੀਉ॥੫॥ (GGSG-Page No.72) ..Guru Nanak \nTranslation: The One \"Naam\" is the Lord's Command, O Nanak, the \"True Guru(teacher)\" helped me to guess the lamp (light). \n\nਦੇਹੀ ਅੰਦਰਿ ਨਾਮੁ ਨਿਵਾਸੀ॥ (GGSG-Page No.1026) \nTranslation: The Naam or Word or Kalma, abides deep within the body.\n\nThis line demonstrates that the Naam of God is something present in the body. One will get it within his own home i.e body where the spirit lives. Body is the current home of the spirit. After Guru Nanak Dev Ji below are the nine SattGurus (i.e Teachers of truth) of the Sikhs who got the success in the history and lead the community of Sikhs: \nSri Guru Angad Dev Ji (1504-1552), \nSr Guru Amar Das Ji (1479-1574), \nSri Guru Ram Das Ji (1534-1581), \nSri Guru Arjan Dev Ji (1563-¬1606), \nSri Guru Har Gobind Sahib Ji (1595-1644), \nSri Guru Har Rai Sahib Ji (1630-1661), \nSri Guru Har Krishan Ji (1656-1664), \nSri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji (1621-1675) \nand Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji (1667-1708). \n\nAmong the exponents of Surat Shabd Yoga and the commonly shared elements related to the basic principles, notable variations also exist. For example, the followers of the orthodox Sikh faith no longer lay emphasis on a contemporary living guru. Different Surat Shabd Yoga paths will vary in the names used to describe the Absolute Supreme Being (God), including Anami Purush (nameless power) and Radha Soami (lord of the soul); the presiding deities and divisions of the macrocosm; the number of outer initiations; the words given as mantras; and the initiation vows or the prerequisites that must be agreed to before being accepted as an initiate.\n\n"}
{"id": "221908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221908", "title": "Tritheism", "text": "Tritheism\n\nTritheism is the belief that cosmic divinity is composed of three powerful entities. As generally conceived, three gods are envisioned as having separate domains and spheres of influence that coalesce into an omnipotent whole. In this primary respect, tritheism differs from cosmic dualism, which often posits two divine powers working in theological or spiritual opposition.\n\nMost Christian denominations do not hold the universe as spiritually tritheistic, although some nontrinitarian denominations stray slightly from pure monotheism and the duality between God and Satan. The term has been sporadically used to spearhead heresy accusations, especially when employed against Christian sects promoting allegedly anathema conceptions of the Trinity. The most notable Christian sect that has been accused of tritheism by mainstream Christianity and alike is The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which views the Trinity not in light of the orthodox Christian doctrine put forth in Nicaea proclaiming God to be one being and three persons, but rather it teaches the Trinity to be three different beings or substances united by one purpose. \n\nThe Hindu Trinity of Brahma the creator, Vishnu the preserver and Shiva the destroyer have been held to constitute a Tritheistic belief system. Like the Christian Trinity, these entities are understood to interact harmoniously. However, this Hindu trinity is not conceived in a firmly doctrinal sense, but is rather posited as one of the ways in which the divine order of the universe can be understood. Ultimately, the Universal Spirit, the Param-atman, the Brahman (not to be confused with brahmin, a social class / caste), or Bhagvan is held to reign supreme as a singular entity.\n\nMuslims, Jews and other nontrinitarians claim that the orthodox trinitarian Christian doctrine of the Holy Trinity of Father, Son, and Holy Spirit constitutes Tritheism, since these distinct \"persons\" are unified only by an impersonal substance ousia which does not transcend, or exist apart from, the persons.\n\nProponents of trinitarianism claim that the three persons of the Trinity do not have separate powers, since they are omnipotent, and do not have separate spheres of influence, since their sphere of influence is unlimited. They argue that the persons of the Trinity have one divine essence and are indivisible, whereas Tritheism appears to suggest three separate Gods. Athanasius already attempted to distinguish Trinitarianism from Tritheism and Modalism.\n\nThe following tritheistic tendencies have been condemned as heretical by mainstream theology. \nAt various times in the history of Christianity, various theologians were accused by the Church of tritheism, which the Church treated as heresy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15596100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15596100", "title": "Westar Institute", "text": "Westar Institute\n\nThe Westar Institute, founded by Robert W. Funk in 1985, is a member-supported nonprofit educational institute with a twofold mission: \nWestar is located in Salem, Oregon, on the campus of Willamette University. The institute has a publishing arm in the form of Polebridge Press, which publishes books, media, and two journals:\n\n\nWestar is managed by a Board of Directors and staff. Membership is divided into Associate Members, who are members of the public, and Westar Fellows, scholars in the field of religious studies or a cognate discipline. Associate membership provides ongoing support for the organization in the form of annual dues, and is open to anyone with an interest in religion. However, scholars must apply to become Fellows. To become a Fellow, a person must hold an \"advanced academic degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) in religious studies or related disciplines with accredited universities worldwide.\" While there is no required religious affiliation, Fellows do commit to the Ethos & Protocol statement, which includes sharing historical-critical research with the public. The approach taken by the Westar Fellows to their research has drawn criticism from a number of directions. See Reactions to Westar below.\n\nWestar sponsors \"large-scale, collaborative research projects\" called seminars on various topics in early Christian history. The first and most famous of these was the Jesus Seminar on the historical Jesus, which lasted from 1985-1993. Other Westar seminars include the Paul Seminar, Acts of Apostles, Christian Origins, and, currently, the Christianity Seminar. While Scholars communicate throughout the year, twice annually they present papers at national meetings with a public audience. Meetings culminate in votes by both Fellows and Associate Members regarding specific historical assertions.\n\nThe concept of voting on aspects of early Christian life and the accuracy of biblical sayings was not a unique innovation of Westar. Rather, it was based on \"the disciplined work of Bible translation committees, a very traditional scholarly practice,\" based in turn on the more ancient Greek voting system that involved dropping colored beads into an urn. Westar Fellows vote as follows:\nVotes are weighted according to historicity. The higher the numerical value, the more historical weight is given to a piece of information. Examples from the Jesus Seminar, as recorded in seminar publication \"The Five Gospels\", include:\n\nBecause of its emphasis on historical foundations over against dogmatic faith, Westar Institute has been criticized by evangelical and fundamentalist-leaning organizations. This criticism has appeared \"almost from the moment that they published their first paper on the life and death of Jesus Christ.\" Moderators of the faith-based site AllAboutReligion.org provide a relevant example: \"Critics of the Jesus Seminar [cry] foul because they say that the Jesus Seminar is not subjective in their findings. This criticism is based on the knowledge that the Jesus Seminar eliminates any evidence they cannot explained using modern scientific principles.\" Indeed, as the Ethos & Protocol statement of Westar Fellows indicates, the approach of all seminars sponsored by the institute is historical-critical, by definition incongruous with faith-based assertions.\n\nBeyond online forums, books have been published that criticize the work of the Westar Institute, particularly the Jesus Seminar, from the above perspective. \"Reasons for Our Hope: An Introduction to Christian Apologetics\", published in 2011 by Wayne House and Dennis Jowers, serves as an example. As with the above-cited website, House and Jowers argue that the historical-critical approach of Fellows is problematic: \"The starting point [of the Jesus Seminar] is a total rejection of the supernatural, a throwback to the first quest [of the historical Jesus]. ... Any miracle is considered a myth, added later to reflect later beliefs. Thus, there can be no virgin birth, walking on water, or resurrection. Before they even begin their work, the Jesus Seminar decided that anything in the Gospels that supports Jesus being more than just human cannot possibly be true.\"\n\nHouse and Jowers describe Westar Institute as \"a think tank set up by several liberal academics\" and \"radical critics of the Bible\" among whom, House and Jowers claim on less credible terms, are \"only a handful are well-known scholars in the field of New Testament studies\" (319). In fact, most Westar Fellows are affiliated in some manner with leading organizations in the field of biblical studies and generally respected academic honors, as is evident in any survey of Fellow biographies on the Westar website. For example, publications and activities of the Fellows frequently include involvement with the leading organization of biblical research, the Society of Biblical Literature (SBL). The SBL published an obituary for Westar founder Robert W. Funk in 2005, in which Funk is credited for his service as the Executive Secretary for the SBL. Likewise another Westar Fellow, Daryl D. Schmidt, was remembered in an obituary on the site in 2006. Furthermore, an article by John Dart, originally a paper presented at the 2006 SBL International Meeting in Edinburgh published in \"Forum,\" also in 2006, is featured on the SBL website. As Dart explains: \"Unfortunately, there is built-in resistance to popularizing biblical research findings for the general public. First, it is believed that complex, nuanced scholarly arguments tend to get 'lost in translation' to readers and audiences unfamiliar with the terminology and background.\"\n\nThis is not to say Westar has escaped criticism from other scholars. \"The most bitter and outspoken critic of the Seminar, Luke Timothy Johnson, published \"The Real Jesus: The Misguided Quest for the Historical Jesus and the Truth of the Traditional Gospels\" in 1996.\" To clarify, Johnson does not come from a fundamentalist perspective; he critiques that perspective as neither modern nor self-critical enough. Nevertheless, he problematizes the deeply unsettling experience of viewing the Bible through an historical-critical lens: \"First-year students, who often come to seminary with deeply conservative convictions concerning the inspiration and inerrancy of Scripture, are exposed at once to the 'shock therapy' of the historical critical method.\" In the spirit of earlier theological perspectives of the twentieth century, Johnson focuses on the Christ of faith over against the Jesus of history as an appropriate focus of studies of Christian life.\n\nBessler, himself a Westar Fellow, describes Johnson's position as largely dependent on the approach of theologian Martin Kähler, among others, and responds critically to Johnson's criticism of the first-year theology students' experience of the historical method: \"Can one also imagine, I wonder, the gall of professors in other graduate departments, in physics for example, or psychology, or cultural anthropology, 'forcing' their students to learn a methodology: How outrageous!\"\n\nA more weighty criticism comes from feminist theologian Elisabeth Schüssler Fiorenza for \"historical positivism.\" While Schüssler Fiorenza does not criticize the use of the historical-critical method, she does critique a lack of emphasis on the fact that all historical work is a form of re-construction which \"must open up its historical models or patters to public reflection and critical scrutiny.\" In other words, in spite of the highly public format of the Westar seminars, Schüssler Fiorenza advocates for greater involvement in explaining and opening methods up to public scrutiny.\n\n"}
{"id": "35868209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35868209", "title": "Zen scriptures", "text": "Zen scriptures\n\nThough Zen is said to be based on a \"special transmission outside scriptures\" which \"did not stand upon words\", the Zen-tradition has a rich doctrinal and textual background. It has been influenced by sutras such as the Lankavatara Sutra, the Vimalakirti Sutra, the Avatamsaka Sutra, and the Lotus Sutra.\n\nSubsequently, the Zen tradition produced a rich corpus of written literature which has become a part of its practice and teaching, including the Platform Sutra, lineage charts, collected sayings of Zen-masters, and the koan-literature.\n\nContrary to the popular image, literature does play a role in the Zen-training. \"Unsui\", Zen-monks, \"are expected to become familiar with the classics of the Zen canon\". A review of the early historical documents and literature of early Zen masters clearly reveals that they were well versed in numerous Mahāyāna Buddhist sūtras.\n\nNevertheless, Zen is often pictured as anti-intellectual. This picture of Zen emerged during the Song Dynasty (960–1297), when Chán became the dominant form of Buddhism in China, and gained great popularity among the educated and literary classes of Chinese society. The use of koans, which are highly stylized literary texts, reflects this popularity among the higher classes.\n\nIn the tenth century, during the turmoil of the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period, regionally oriented schools with differing views on the Chán-identity developed. One view was that of \"jiaowai biechuan\", \"a special transmission outside the teaching\". The opposing view was \"jiaochan yizhi\", \"the harmony between Chán and the teaching\". The view of the harmony between Chán and the teachings was dominant in the lineage of Fa-ten Wen-i (885-958), and prevailed in the Southern Kingdoms in the tenth century. Thereafter the notion of a \"special transmission outside the teachings\" became dominant.\n\nThe famous saying \"do not establish words and letters\", attributed in this period to Bodhidharma,\nThe Chán of the Tang Dynasty, especially that of Mazu and Linji with its emphasis on \"shock techniques\", in retrospect was seen as a golden age of Chán. This picture has gained great popularity in the west in the 20th century, especially due to the influence of D.T. Suzuki. This picture has been challenged, and changed, since the 1970s by modern scientific research on Zen.\n\nThe Zen tradition, especially Rinzai Zen, aims to give a direct transmission of insight, and stresses the impossibility of giving any positive statement of this insight. This is famously worded in a 12th-century stanza, attributed to Bodhidharma:\n\nAn example of this non-dependence on words and scripture in 9th century China is Teshan (Tokusan 780-865). He became famous for burning his commentaries on the Diamond sutra, when he realized that his attachment to these commentaries had become a stumbling block on his way to gaining insight.\n\nHisamatsu states it more bluntly:\nMasao Abe points out that the role of the intellect in the understanding of Zen should not be misunderstood:\nArokiasamy warns against this\nThe importance given to Zen's non-reliance on written words is also often misunderstood as an opposition to the study of Buddhist texts. However, Zen is deeply rooted in the teachings and doctrines of Mahāyāna Buddhism and gradually developed its own literature. What the Zen tradition emphasizes is that enlightenment of the Buddha came not through conceptualization, but rather through direct insight:\nBut direct insight has to be supported by study and understanding (\"hori\" of the Buddhist teachings and texts. Hakuin goes as far as to state that the buddhist path even \"starts\" with study: \nIntellectual understanding without practice is called \"yako-zen\", \"wild fox Zen\", but \"one who has only experience without intellectual understanding is a \"zen temma\", \"Zen devil\"\".\n\nThe early Buddhist schools in China were each based on a specific sutra. At the beginning of the Tang Dynasty, by the time of the Fifth Patriarch Hongren (601–674), the Zen school became established as a separate school of Buddhism. It had to develop a doctrinal tradition of its own to ascertain its position, and to ground its teachings in a specific sutra. Various sutras were used for this, even before the time of Hongren: the Śrīmālādevī Sūtra (Huike), Awakening of Faith (Daoxin), the Lankavatara Sutra (East Mountain School), the Diamond Sutra (Shenhui), the Platform Sutra. Subsequently, the Zen tradition produced a rich corpus of written literature which has become a part of its practice and teaching.\n\nOther influential sutras are the Vimalakirti Sutra, Avatamsaka Sutra, the Shurangama Sutra, and the Mahaparinirvana Sutra.\n\nThe growing Chán tradition also faced the challenge to put its teachings into words, to bolster its identity and to apply it in formal teaching settings, without losing the central insight into the \"suchness\" of reality. One solution to this was the shift of emphasis from the recorded sayings of the historical Buddha, to the sayings of living Buddhas, namely the Chán masters. In time, these sayings, from the so-called \"encounter-dialogues\" between masters and students, but also from sermons, became codified and formed the basis of typical Zen-genres, namely the \"yü-lü\" (recorded sayings) and the classic koan-collections. These too became formalised, and as such became a subject of disputes on the right way to teach Zen and the avoidance of dependence on words.\n\nIn its beginnings in China, Zen primarily referred to the Mahāyāna sūtras and especially to the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\". As a result, early masters of the Zen tradition were referred to as \"Laṅkāvatāra masters\". As the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\" teaches the doctrine of the \"One Vehicle\" (Skt. \"Ekayāna\"), the early Zen school was sometimes referred to as the \"One Vehicle School\". In other early texts, the school that would later become known as Zen is sometimes even referred to as simply the \"Laṅkāvatāra school\" (Ch. 楞伽宗, \"Léngqié Zōng\"). Accounts recording the history of this early period are to be found in \"Records of the Laṅkāvatāra Masters\" (Ch. 楞伽師資記, \"Léngqié Shīzī Jì\").\n\nDuring the Tang Dynasty, the Zen school's central text shifted to the \"Diamond Sūtra\" (\"Vajracchedikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra\"). Thereafter, the essential texts of the Zen school were often considered to be the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\" and the \"Diamond Sūtra\".\n\nThe reasons for this shift are not clear. Whalen Lai writes:\nKalupahana does see a struggle to give clues to students about ultimate reality, without going back to scripture (e.g. the Lankavatara-sutra). According to him, the use of kung-an's served this role. The prajnaparamita-sutras are a reaction against the early Buddhist philosophical schools, especially the realistic approach of the Sarvastivadins, and a return to the notion of non-substantiality. According to Kalupahana, also in Chán the use of...\nThe Vimalakirti Sutra is an early Mahayana Sutra dating from the second century CE. The sutra centers on the person of the householder Vimalakirti, who's being visited by various bodhisattvas while he's ill.\n\nThe Vimalakirti Sutra stresses that...\nThe sutra is grounded on the prajnaparamita-teachings on emptiness. This is the central theme in \"the dialogue between the bodhisattvas and Vimalakirti on the subject of nonduality\". While discussing this subject, the bodhisattvas give a variety of answers. Manjusri is the last bodhisattva to answer, who says that \"by giving an explanation they have already fallen into dualism\". Vimalakirti, in his turn, answers with silence. \n\nThis silence became paradigmatic for the Chán-tradition:\nThe Avatamsaka Sutra is a compilation of sutras of various length. The earliest of these texts, the Daśabhūmika Sūtra, maybe dates from the first century CE. The Daśabhūmika Sūtra describes the ten stages on the Bodhisattva-path. The various sutras were probably joined together shortly before its translation into Chinese, at the beginning of the 5th century CE.\n\nThe Avatamsaka (\"garland\", string of flowers) sutra integrates the teachings on sunyata and vijnaptimatra (mind-only). The Huayan school, that originated in the same period as Chán, and influenced the Chán-school, was based on the Avatamsaka Sutra.\n\nThe basic idea of the Avatamsaka Sutra is the unity of the absolute and the relative:\nEach part of the world reflects the totality of the cosmos:\nAll levels of reality are related and interpenetrated. This is depicted in the image of Indra's net. This \"unity in totality allows every individual entity of the phenomenal world its uniqueness without attributing an inherent nature to anything\".\n\nThe Hua-yen school persistently influenced Chán. Tsung-mi, the Fifth Patriarch of the Hua-yen school, also occupies a prominent position in the history of Chán. During the Song, the Hua-yen metaphysics were completely assimilated by the Chán-school.\n\nThe Avatamsaka Sutra is being referred to, directly or indirectly, in Chán-writings. Xinxin Ming's \"Faith in mind\" is \"in many passages [...] akin to the Avatamsaka sutra, especially the closing stanzas\". Tsung-mi's writings reflect his Hua-yen influences.\n\nThe Zen-tradition developed a rich textual tradition, based on the interpretation of the Buddhist teachings and the recorded sayings of Zen-masters.\n\nAmong the earliest of the specifically Zen texts, dating back to at least the 8th century, is the \"Platform Sūtra of the Sixth Patriarch\", attributed to Huineng. It was constructed over a longer period of time, and contains different layers of writing. It is...\nIt contains the well-known story of the contest for the succession of Hongren. According to the text, Huineng won this contest, but had to flee the monastery to avoid the rage of the supporters of Henxui. The story is not a factual account, but an 8th-century construction, probably by the so-called Oxhead School.\n\nThe Platform Sūtra cites and explains a wide range of Buddhist scriptures: the \"Diamond Sūtra\", the \"Lotus Sūtra\" (\"Saddharma Puṇḍarīka Sūtra\"), the \"Vimalakīrti Nirdeśa Sūtra\", the \"Śūraṅgama Sūtra\", the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\", the Awakening of Faith in the Mahayana-sutra, and the Mahaparinirvana Sutra.\n\nThe Chán-tradition developed from the established tradition of \"Canonical Buddhism\", which \"remained normative for all later Chinese Buddhism\". It was established by the end of the sixth century, as a result of the Chinese developing understanding of Buddhism in the previous centuries. One of the inventions of this Canonical Buddhism were transmission lists, called \"Transmission of the Lamp\", a literary device to establish a lineage. Both T'ien Tai and Chán took over this literary device, to lend authority to those developing traditions, and guarantee its authenticity:\nAnother literary device for establishing those traditions was given by the \"Kao-seng-chuan\" (Biographies of Eminent Monks), compiles around 530. The Chán-tradition developed its own corpus in this genre, with works as \"Anthology of the Patriarchal Hall\" (952) and the \"Jingde Records of the Transmission of the Lamp\" (published 1004). McRae considers Dumoulin's \"A History of Zen\" to be a modern example of this genre, disguised as scientific history.\n\nChán transmission records, teng-lu, were essential in shaping the identity of Chán. The Records of the Transmission of the Lamp (Ching-te ch'uan-teng lu), compiled by Tao-yün and published in 1004, introduced several of the key elements of the Chán-tradition. Another key text is the \"Record of the Extensive Transmission [of the Lamp] compiled during the T'ien-sheng era\" (\"T'ien-sheng kuang-teng lu\"), compiled by Li Tsun-hsü and published in 1036, which clearly introduced the idea of \"a special transmission outside the teaching\". Until the T'ien-sheng kuang-teng lu, Chán was viewed as a teaching in harmony with the Buddhist scriptural tradition. In the tenth century, during the turmoil of the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period, regionally oriented schools with differing views on the Chán-identity developed. One view was that of \"chiao-wai pieh-ch'uan\", \"a special transmission outside the teaching\". The opposing view was \"chiao-ch'an i-chih\", \"the harmony between Chán and the teaching\". The view of the harmony between Chán and the teachings was dominant in the lineage of Fa-ten Wen-i (885-958), and prevailed in the Southern Kingdoms in the tenth century.\n\nThe original preface to the Ching-te ch'uan-teng lu by Tao-yüan reflects this Fa-yen position of harmony with the teachings. It was replaced by an introduction by Yang I, which emphasised \"a special practice outside the teaching\":\nThe differences go back to the interpretation of the Long Scroll of the Treatise on the Two Entrances and Four Practices, a text attributed to Bodhidharma. In this text, the \"entrance by principle\" (li-ju) is characterized in two ways:\nThe first statement can be seen as a support of the harmony between the teachings and Chán. The second statement can be seen as a support of a \"special transmission outside the teachings\".\n\nFrom the \"question-and-answer format that had been developed as a means of conveying Buddhist teachings\" developed the \"yü-lü\" genre, the recorded sayings of the masters, and the encounter dialogues. The best-known example is the \"Lin-ji yü-lü\". These recorded sayings are not verbatim recordings of the sayings of the masters, but well-edited texts, written down up to 160 years after the supposed sayings and meetings.\n\nThe \"Linji yulu\" (\"Zhenzhou Linji Huizhao Chansi yulu\") is the seminal text of the Linji and Rinzai school. It contains the recorded sayings attributed to Linji Yixuan (d. 866). It was published in 1120, but developed in a period stretching from 952 to 1120. The first mention of Linji is in the \"Zutang ji\" (祖堂集 \"Anthology of the Patriarchal Hall), compiled in 952, 86 years after Linji's death. The \"Jingde Chuangdeng lu\" (景德傳燈錄 \"Jingde Records of the Transmission of the Lamp\"), compiled in 1004 by Daoyuan, gives brief biographical information on Lijni, followed by Linji's interactions with Hunagbo, to strengthen the claim of Linji's descendancy form Hunagbo and the Mazu-lineage. The \"Tiansheng Guangdeng lu\" (天聖廣燈錄), \"Tiansheng Era Expanded Lamp Record\", compiled by the official Li Zunxu (李遵勗)(988-1038) confirms the status of Shoushan Shengnian, but also pictures Linji as a major Chan patriarch and heir to the Hongzhou school of Mazu Daoyi, displacing the prominence of the Fayan-lineage. It also established the slogan of \"a special transmission outside the teaching\", supporting the Linji-school claim of \"Chan as separate from and superior to all other Buddhist teachings\". The \"Sijia yulu\", (\"Discourse Records of the Four Masters\"), compiled 1066-1069 by Huanglong Huinan (1002–1069), contains the discourse records of Mazu Daoyi (709–788), Baizhang Huaihai (720–814), Huangbo Xiyun (died 850) and Linji, the major patriarchs of the Tang Dynasty according to the Linji faction. In this text, Linji is explicitly placed in line with these teachers of the Hongzhou school. The \"Zhenzhou Linji Huizhao Chansi yulu\" (\"The record of Linji\"), compiled by Yuanjue Zongan in 1120, is the classic version of the record of Linji. Yuanjue Zongan belonged to the Yunmen-faction, and also re-issued the \"Yunmen yulu\", the \"Discourse Records of Yunmen\". The separate publication of Linji's records signals the newly acquired status of Linji as one of Chán's major patriarchs.\n\nThe \"encounter dialogue\"-genre developed into various collections of \"kōans\", which form itself another extensive literary corpus.\n\nKoan practice developed from a literary practice, styling snippets of encounter-dialogue into well-edited stories. It arose in interaction with \"educated literati\". There were dangers involved in such a literary approach, such as fixing specific meanings to the cases. Dahui Zonggao is even said to have burned the woodblocks of the Blue Cliff Record, for the hindrance it had become to study of Chán by his students.\n\nThe two best known koan-collections (in the West) are the \"Gateless Gate\" and the \"Blue Cliff Record\". \"The Gateless Gate\" (Chinese: 無門關 Wumenguan; Japanese: Mumonkan) is a collection of 48 kōans and commentaries published in 1228 by Chinese monk Wumen (無門) (1183–1260). The title may be more accurately rendered as \"Gateless Barrier\" or \"Gateless Checkpoint\"). The \"Blue Cliff Record\" (Chinese: 碧巖錄 Bìyán Lù; Japanese: Hekiganroku) is a collection of 100 kōans compiled in 1125 by Yuanwu Keqin (圜悟克勤 1063–1135).\n\nThe Japanese Zen-tradition also developed a corpus of its own. During the Tokugawa-period Dōgen's \"Shōbōgenzō\" became the authoritative text of the Soto-school. In the Rinzai-school, the koan-curricula were systematized by dharma-heirs of Hakuin, who himself produced an extended corpus of written texts.\n\nDuring the Tokugawa-period the Soto-school started to place a growing emphasis on textual authority. In 1615 the bakufu declared that \"Eheiji's standards (\"kakun\") must be the rule for all Soto monks\". In time this came to mean all the writings of Dogen, which thereby became the normative source for the doctrines and organisation of the Soto-school.\n\nA key factor in this growing emphasis on Dogen was Manzan's appeal to change the rules for dharma transmission, based on arguments derived from the Shōbōgenzō. Another reformation was implemented by Gento Sokuchu (1729–1807), who tried to purify the Soto-school of the use of koans. Gento Sokuchu implanted new regulations, based on Dogen's regulations.\n\nThis growing status of Dogen as textual authority also posed a problem for the Soto-school:\nDuring the Meiji Restoration, the memory of Dōgen was used to ensure Eihei-ji's central place in the Soto-organisation, and \"to cement closer ties with lay people\". In 1899 the first lay ordination ceremony was organized in Eihei-ji. Eihei-ji also promoted the study of Dōgen's works, especially the Shōbōgenzō, which changed the view of Dōgen in Soto's history.\n\nThe Zenshū Shiburoku, \"The Four Texts of the Zen Sect\", is a collection of four essential Zen texts which are being used in Japan as introductory texts in the education of novice Zen monks. The collection consists of the \"Jūgyūzu\" (Ten Oxherding Pictures), the \"Shinjinmei\" (Faith in mind), attributed to the third Chinese Chán-patriarch Sengcan, the \"Shōdōka\" (Song of Enlightenment), attributed to Yongjia Xuanjue, and the \"Zazengi\" (The Principles of Zazen), written by Dogen.\n\n\n\n"}
