{"id": "7617389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7617389", "title": "Aaron ben Jacob ha-Kohen", "text": "Aaron ben Jacob ha-Kohen\n\nAaron ben Jacob ha-Kohen was a Provençal rabbi, one of a family of scholars living at Narbonne, France (not Lunel, as David Conforte and others say), and who suffered the expulsion of the Jews in 1306.\n\nHe emigrated to Majorca, and there, some time before 1327, composed a ritual work of great merit bearing the title \"Orḥot Ḥayyim\" (The Paths of Life). The first part deals chiefly with the laws concerning the daily prayers, the Sabbath, and the festivals, and was published in Florence in 1752. The work is a compilation of Talmudic laws and discussions rather than an original system, and was conceived on a plan similar to Jacob ben Asher's great code, the \"Arba'ah Ṭurim,\" which appeared soon afterward and superseded it as a ritual guide on account of its more practical character. The \"Orḥot Ḥayyim,\" however, contains some ethical and doctrinal chapters which are not found in Jacob ben Asher's code. Aaron ha-Kohen was especially fond of mystic lore and of rabbinical discussion. A less strict legalist than his more famous contemporary, his \"Orḥot Ḥayyim\" is of greater value to the student of literature than to one who seeks practical decisions.\n\nAn abridgment of the work, under the name of \"Kol Bo\", a thesaurus, came into common use, replacing the original work.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55968572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55968572", "title": "Adolf Aebersold", "text": "Adolf Aebersold\n\nAdolf Aebersold (born 29 March 1909, date of death unknown) was a Swiss racewalker. He competed in the men's 50 kilometres walk at the 1936 Summer Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "55181525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55181525", "title": "Big data ethics", "text": "Big data ethics\n\nBig Data Ethics also known as simply Data Ethics refers to systemising, defending, and recommending concepts of right and wrong conduct in relation to data, in particular personal data. Since the dawn of the Internet the sheer quantity and quality of data has dramatically increased and is continuing to do so exponentially. big data describes this large amount of data that is so voluminous and complex that traditional data processing application software is inadequate to deal with them. Recent innovations in medical research and healthcare, such as high-throughput genome sequencing, high-resolution imaging, electronic medical patient records and a plethora of internet-connected health devices have triggered a data deluge that will reach the exabyte range in the near future. Data Ethics of is of increasing relevance as the quantity of data increases because of the scale of the impact.\n\nBig data ethics is different from information ethics because the focus of information ethics is more concerned with issues of intellectual property and concerns relating to librarians, archivists, and information professionals, while big data ethics is more concerned with collectors and disseminators of structured or unstructured data such as data brokers, governments, and large corporations.\n\nData Ethics is concerned with the following principles: \n1. Ownership - Individuals own their own data. \n2. Transaction Transparency - If an individuals personal data is used, they should have transparent access to the algorithm design used to generate aggregate data sets \n3. Consent - If an individual or legal entity would like to use personal data, one needs informed and explicitly expressed consent of what personal data moves to whom, when, and for what purpose from the owner of the data. \n4. Privacy - If data transactions occur all reasonable effort needs to be made to preserve privacy. \n5. Currency - Individuals should be aware of financial transactions resulting from the use of their personal data and the scale of these transactions. \n6. Openness - Aggregate data sets should be freely available\n\nWho owns data? Ownership involves determining rights and duties over property. The concept of data ownership is linked to one's ability to exercise control over and limit the sharing of their own data. If one person records their observations on another person who owns those observations? The observer or the observed? What responsibilities do the observer and the observed have in relation to each other? Since the massive scale and systematisation of observation of people and their thoughts as a result of the Internet, these questions are increasingly important to address. Slavery, the ownership of a person, is outlawed in all recognised countries. The question of personal data ownership falls into an unknown territory in between corporate ownership, intellectual property, and slavery. Who owns a digital identity?\n\nEuropean laws, the General Data Protection Regulation, indicate that individuals own their own personal data.\n\nPersonal data refers to data sets describing a person ranging from physical attributes to their preferences and behaviour. Examples of personal data include: Genome data, GPS location, written communication, spoken communication, lists of contacts, internet browsing habits, financial transactions, supermarket spending, tax payments, criminal record, laptop and mobile phone camera lens recording, device microphone recordings, driving habits via car trackers, mobile and health records, fitness activity, nutrition, substance use, heartbeat, sleep patterns and other vital signs. The collective of one individual's personal data forms a digital identity (or perhaps digital alter ego is more fitting). A digital identity encompasses all of our personal data shadowing, representing and connected to our physical and ideological self. The distinction between data categories is not always clear cut. For example, health data and banking data are intertwined because behaviour and lifestyle can be inferred through banking data and is hugely valuable for predicting risk of chronic disease. Therefore, banking data is also health data. Health data can indicate how much an individual spends on healthcare, therefore health data is also banking data. These overlaps exist in between other data categories too, for example, location data, Internet browsing data, tax data are essentially all about individuals.\n\nThe protection of the moral rights of an individual is based on the view that personal data is a direct expression of the individual’s personality: the moral rights are therefore personal to the individual, and cannot be transferred to another person except by testament when the individual dies. Moral rights includes the right to be identified as the source of the data and the right to object to any distortion or mutilation of the data which would be prejudicial to his or her honour or reputation. These moral rights to personal data are perpetual.\n\nA key component of personal data ownership is unique and controlled access i.e. exclusivity. Ownership implies exclusivity, particularly with abstract concepts like ideas or data points. It is not enough to simply have a copy of your own data. Others should be restricted in their access to what is yours. Knowing what data others keep is a near impossible task. The simpler approach would be to cloak yourself in nonsense. To ensure that corporations or institutions do not have a copy of your data it is possible to send noise to confuse the data that they have. For example, a robot could randomly search terms that you would not be inclined to usually search for making that data obtained by the search engine useless through confusion (see: Track Me Not by New York University).\n\nOwnership puts emphasis on the ability to conveniently move data from one service to another i.e. portability.\nWhen personal data is owned by the individual they have the option to simply remove it and take it to another site if they become dissatisfied with the service. Individuals should be offered a high degree of convenient portability allowing one to switch to alternatives without losing historic data collections describing product preferences and personal conversations. For example, one may choose to switch to an alternative messaging app, and this should be possible without losing the record of your previous conversations and contacts. Giving individuals the option to switch services without the inconveniences of losing historical data means that the services need to keep customers happy by providing good services rather than locking them in by means of incompatibility with alternatives.\n\nFor portability, data expression must be standardised in such a way that this can happen seamlessly. For example, describing the unit as “kilograms” rather than “kg” means that robots recognise them as different, although they are the same. These small variations can result in messy data that cannot easily be combined or transferred into a new system which cannot recognise them. Currently, Apple states that they provide privacy services, however, it is difficult to extract data from Apple systems making it difficult to migrate to an alternative. In the PDT framework, the data expression would be standardised for easy portability with the click of a button. Standardisation would also facilitate the setting up of mechanisms to clean data necessary to install checks and balances validating the quality of the data. By joining multiple sources, you would be able to identify erroneous or falsely entered data.\n\nWho owns data today? Today data is being controlled, and therefore owned by the owner of the sensors. The individual making the recording or the entity owning the sensor controls what happens to that data by default. For example, banks control banking data, researchers control research data, and hospitals control health record data. Due to historical reasons the current scenario is such that research institutions hold data about a fragment of data describing part of an individual. Health research data in Europe exist in a fragmented manner controlled by different institutions. Data categories often describe more about who controls that data and where it is stored rather than what the data is describing or the application it could be applied to. While the Internet is not owned by anyone, corporations have come to control much of the personal data, creating value by making use of data collection, search engines and communication tools. By default, as a side effect to owning the intellectual property making up the Internet tools, these corporations have been collecting our digital identities as raw material for the services delivered to other companies at a profit. Most of the data collected via the Internet services is personal data describing individuals. Traditionally, medicine organises data around the individual because it enables an understanding of health. When studying epidemiology, the data of groups is still organised around the individual. Many of the processes that are being made more efficient concern individuals and group dynamics. However, data is not necessarily organised around the individual, rather, data is being controlled by the owner of the sensors.\n\nIn China, the government largely owns data. In one Chinese province data was used to generate a social index score per person based on online and offline individual behaviour, such as jay walking and amount of toilet paper used in a public lavatory. The social index determines access to particular public services.\n\nConcerns have been raised around how biases can be integrated into algorithm design resulting in systematic oppression. The algorithm design should be transparently disclosed. All reasonable efforts should be made to take into account the differences between individuals and groups, without losing sight of equality. Algorithm design needs to be inclusive.\n\nIn terms of governance, big data ethics is concerned with which types of inferences and predictions should be made using big data technologies such as algorithms.\n\nAnticipatory governance is the practice of using predictive analytics to assess possible future behaviours. This has ethical implications because it affords the ability to target particular groups and places which can encourage prejudice and discrimination For example, predictive policing highlights certain groups or neighbourhoods which should be watched more closely than others which leads to more sanctions in these areas, and closer surveillance for those who fit the same profiles as those who are sanctioned.\n\nThe term \"control creep\" refers to data that has been generated with a particular purpose in mind but which is repurposed. This practice is seen with airline industry data which has been repurposed for profiling and managing security risks at airports.\n\nIn regard to personal data, the individual has the right to know:\n\nExamples of ethical uses of data transaction include: \n\nIf an individual or legal entity would like to use personal data, one needs informed and explicitly expressed consent of what personal data moves to whom, when, and for what purpose from the owner of the data. The owner of the information has the right to know how their data been used.\nThe data transaction cannot be used as a bargaining chip for an unrelated or superfluous issue of consent, for example, improve marketing recommendations while you are trying to ring your mother. While there are services where you need to share data, these transactions should not be exaggerated and should be held within context. For example, an individual needs to share data to receive adequate medical recommendations, however, that medical data does not automatically need to go to a health insurance provider. It's ultimately come down upon the individual to make the decision about their data. These are separate data transactions which should be dealt with as such. Implied consent of accepting the transfer of data ownership because you use a chat application is not considered valid.\n\nThe full scope and extent of the transaction needs to be explicitly detailed to the individual who has to be given apt opportunity to engage in the process of evaluating whether they would like to engage. Timing is critical i.e. these issues should be dealt with in a calm moment with time to reflect, not in the moment you want to buy a train ticket or are experiencing a medial emergency.\n\nThe permission needs to be given in a format which is explicit, not implied. Just because you chose an application to chat with your partner does not mean that this app needs access to your entire list of contacts. The button which you click to give permission should not be designed in such a way that the automatic behaviour is opting in. For example, in binary choices if one button is smaller than the other, or if one button is hidden in the design and the other jumps out at you, or if one button requires multiple clicks whereas the other is a single click.\n\nWhile a person could give consent on a general topic to be continuous, it should always be possible to retract that permission for future transactions. Similarly, to consent for sexual activity, retraction of past consent for data transactions is not feasible. For example, it would be possible for an individual to give consent to use their personal data for any cause advancing the treatment of cardiovascular disease until further notice. Until the human changes their mind, these transactions can continue to occur seamlessly without the involvement of the human.\n\nIf data transactions occur all reasonable effort needs to be made to preserve privacy.\n\n\"“No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks.”\" \n- United Nations Declaration of Human Rights Article 12.\n\nWhy does privacy matter? Data is useful to make systems more efficient; however, defining the end goal of this efficiency is essential in assessing how ethical data usage is.\n\nThe use of data monitoring by government to observe citizens needs explicit authorization by appropriate judicial process. Possibly it would even be more efficient to observe the relatively small number of criminals manually rather than track the relatively large population. Blanket observation of inhabitants by national governments and corporations is a slippery slope to an Orwellian style of governance. Privacy is a not about keeping secrets, it is about choice, human rights, freedom, and liberty. For example, sharing your medical data with your doctor under the understanding that it will be used to improve your health is ethically sound, even when the doctor reveals that data to another doctor. However, when that same data is shared with a marketing agency as just happened with the British national health system and Google’s DeepMind artificial intelligence company the ethical implications are more uncertain (Google DeepMind and healthcare in an age of algorithms by Julia Powles and Hal Hodson). Privacy is about choosing the context; what data you share, with who, for which purpose, when. Privacy is currently not being implemented possibly because the personal power and wealth gain from not doing so is acting as a disincentive for both private companies and governments. Also, using data to measure actual social impact could reveal inefficiency which would be inconvenient to the politicians involved or the companies’ claims.\n\nThe public debate on privacy is often unfairly obscured to an over-simplistic binary choice between privacy and scientific progress. The marketing campaigns have even dismissed critics of centralized data collection as resisting progress and holding on to the past. However, the benefits from scientific progress through data can be achieved in a manner consistent with privacy values as has historically been the case in epidemiological research. The extraction of value from data without compromising identity privacy is certainly possible technologically; e.g., by utilizing homomorphic encryption and algorithmic design which makes reverse engineering difficult.\n\nHomomorphic encryption allows the chaining together of different services without exposing the data to each of the services. Even the software engineers working on the software would not be able to override the user. Homomorphic encryption schemes are malleable by design meaning they can be used in a cloud computing environment while ensuring the confidentiality of processed data. The technique allows analytical computations to be carried out on cipher text, therefore generating encrypted results which, when decrypted, match the results of operations performed in plain-text.\nThe results of analytics can be presented in such a way as to be fit for purpose without compromising identity privacy. For example, a data sale stating that “20% of Amsterdam eats muesli for breakfast” would transmit the analytical value of data without compromising privacy, whereas saying that “Ana eats muesli for breakfast” would not maintain privacy. Algorithmic design and the size of the sample group is critical to minimize the capacity to reverse engineer statistics and track targeted individuals. One technical solution to reverse engineering of aggregate metrics is to introduce fake data points that are about made up people which do not alter the end result, for example the percentage of a group that eats muesli.\n\nPrivacy has been presented as a limitation to data usage which could also be considered unethical. For example, the sharing of healthcare data can shed light on the causes of diseases, the effects of treatments, an can allow for tailored analyses based on individuals' needs. This is of ethical significance in the big data ethics field because while many value privacy, the affordances of data sharing are also quite valuable, although they may contradict one's conception of privacy. Attitudes against data sharing may be based in a perceived loss of control over data and a fear of the exploitation of personal data. However, it is possible to extract the value of data without compromising privacy.\n\nSome scholars such as Jonathan H. King and Neil M. Richards are redefining the traditional meaning of privacy, and others to question whether or not privacy still exists. In a 2014 article for the \"Wake Forest Law Review\", King and Richard argue that privacy in the digital age can be understood not in terms of secrecy but in term of regulations which govern and control the use of personal information. In the European Union, the Right to be Forgotten entitles EU countries to force the removal or de-linking of personal data from databases at an individual's request if the information is deemed irrelevant or out of date. According to Andrew Hoskins, this law demonstrates the moral panic of EU members over the perceived loss of privacy and the ability to govern personal data in the digital age. In the United States, citizens have the right to delete voluntarily submitted data. This is very different from the Right to be Forgotten because much of the data produced using big data technologies and platforms are not voluntarily submitted.\n\nThe business models driving tech giants have uncovered the possibility of making the human identity the product to be consumed. While the tech services including search engines, communication channels and maps are provided for free, the new currency that has been uncovered in the process is personal data.\n\nThere is a variety of opinion around if it is ethical to receive money in exchange for having access to your personal data. Parallels have been drawn between blood donations, where the rate of infectious blood donated decreases when there is no financial transaction for the blood donor. Additional questions arise around who should receive the profit from a data transaction?\n\nWhat is the exchange rate of personal data to money? Data is valuable because it allows you to act more efficiently than when you are guessing or operating using trial and error. There are two elements of data that have value: trends and real-time. Build-up of historical data allows us to make future predictions based on trends. Real-time data gives value because you can act instantaneously.\n\nHow much are tech services such as a search engine, a communications channel and a digital map actually worth, for example in dollars? The difference in value between the services facilitated by tech companies and the equity value of these tech companies is the difference in the exchange rate offered to the citizen and the 'market rate' of the value of their data. Scientifically there are many holes to be picked in this rudimentary calculation: the financial figures of tax evading companies are unreliable, would revenue or profit be more appropriate, how do you define an active user, you need a large number of individuals for the data to be valuable, would there be a tiered price for different people in different countries, not all Google revenue is from Gmail, etc. Although these calculations are undeniably crude, the exercise serves to make the monetary value of data more tangible. Another approach is to find the data trading rates in the black market. RSA publishes a yearly cybersecurity shopping list that takes this approach.\n\nAccording to Statista, in 2016 Google had a revenue of 89.5 billion dollars and 1 billion Gmail users meaning that, each person per year generates roughly 90 dollars in ‘data added value’. Would Gmail users be willing to pay 89.5 dollars per year for the service?\n\nAccording to Statista, in 2016 Facebook had a revenue of 27.638 million dollars and 800 million active users. Would Facebook users be willing to pay 34.5 euros per year to use Facebook?\n\nThe examples given only cover specific cases, but if we extend profits from data sales to other areas such as healthcare the monthly profit per individual would increase.\n\nThis raises the economic question of whether free tech services in exchange for your personal data is a worthwhile implicit exchange for the consumer. In the personal data trading model, rather than companies selling your data, you as an owner can sell your personal data and keep the profit. Personal Data Trading (PDT) is a framework that gives individuals the ability to own their digital identity and create granular data sharing agreements via the Internet. Rather than the current model which tolerates companies selling personal data for profit, in PDT, individuals would consciously sell their personal data to known parties of their choice and keep the profit. At the core is an effort to re- decentralise the Internet.At the core is an effort to re-decentralise the Internet. Rather than the current model which tolerates companies selling personal data for profit, in PDT, individual human beings would directly own and consciously sell their personal data to known parties of their choice and keep the profit.PDT adds a fourth mechanism for wealth distribution, the other three being salaries via jobs, property ownership, and company ownership.The ultimate goals of the Personal Data Trading (PTD) model are: More equitable global resource distribution and a more balanced say in allocation of global resources. Personal data trading by individuals in the proposed framework would result in distributed profits amongst the population but also can have radical consequences on societal power structures. It is now widely acknowledged that the current centralised data design exacerbates ideological echo chambers and has far reaching implications on seemingly unrelated decision-making processes such as elections. The data exchange rate is not only monetary, it is ideological. Do institutional processes have to be compromised by the centralised use of communication tools guided by freely harvested personal data?\nWhile initially it is realistic to assume that data would be traded for money, it is possible to imagine a future where data would be traded for data. The ‘I’ll show you yours if you show my mine’ scenario could replace money altogether. Importantly, this is a future scenario and the first step is to focus on exchanging personal data for existing monetary currency.\n\nThe idea of open data is centred around the argument that data should be freely available and should not have restrictions that would prohibit its use, such as copyright laws. Many governments have began to move towards publishing open datasets for the purpose of transparency and accountability. This movement has gained traction via \"open data activists\" who have called for governments to make datasets available to allow citizens to themselves extract meaning from the data and perform checks and balances themselves. King and Richards have argued that this call for transparency includes a tension between openness and secrecy.\n\nActivists and scholars have also argued that because this open-sourced model of data evaluation is based on voluntary participation, the availability of open datasets has a democratizing effect on a society, allowing any citizen to participate. To some, the availability of certain types of data is seen as a right and an essential part of a citizen's agency.\n\nThe Open Knowledge Foundation (OKF) lists several dataset types that should be provided by governments in order for them to truly be open. The OFK has a tool called The Global Open Data Index (GODI) which is a crowd-sourced survey for measuring the openness of governments, according to the Open Definition. The aim of the GODI is to provide a tool for providing important feedback to governments about the quality of their open datasets.\n\nWillingness to share data varies from person to person. Preliminary studies have been conducted into the determinants of the willingness to share data. For example, some have suggested that baby boomers are less willing to share data than millennials.\n\nParents or guardians of minors have responsibility for their children's data.Although parents or guardians of minors below the age of 18 have responsibility of for children’s data, they cannot transact in their child's’ data in exchange for money. Rather, data transactions can only be donations, which opens the possibility to using child data for contexts such as public healthcare and education.\n\nData sovereignty refers to a government's control over the data that is generated and collected within a country. The issue of data sovereignty was heightened when Edward Snowden leaked US government information about a number of governments and individuals whom the US government was spying on. This prompted many governments to reconsider their approach to data sovereignty and the security of their citizens' data.\n\nJ. De Jong-Chen points out how the restriction of data flow can hinder scientific discovery, to the disadvantage of many but particularly, developing countries. This is of considerable concern to big data ethics because of the tension between the two important issues of cybersecurity and global development.\n\nThe banks hold a position in society as the keeper of value. Their data policy should not compromise the trust relationship with their clients as keeper of value. For example, in a bank shares data about one butcher with another butcher, this could compromise their trust relationship due to the revelation of data to competitors.\n\nThe Edward Snowden revelations on June 5, 2013 marked a turning point in the data ethics public debate. The ongoing publication of leaked documents has revealed previously unknown details of global surveillance apparatus run by the United States NSA in close cooperation with three of its Five Eyes partners: Australia's ASD, the UK's GCHQ, and Canada's CSEC.\n\nIn the Netherlands, ING Bank made a public statement about their intentions around data usage.\n\nThe Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal involves the collection of personal data of up to but most possibly more than 87 million Facebook users in an attempt to influence voter opinion. Both the 2016 Brexit vote and the 2015/6 campaigns of US politicians Donald Trump and Ted Cruz paid Cambridge Analytica to use information from the data breach to influence voter opinion.\n\nOn the 26th October 2001 the Patriot Act came into force in the USA, in response to the broad concern felt among Americans from the September 11 attacks. Broadly speaking the Patriot Act laid the path for allowing security forces to surveil citizens suspected of involvement with terrorist acts.\n\nOn the 25th May 2018 the General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (GDPR) came into effect across the European Union. GDPR addresses issues of transparency from data controllers towards individuals, referred to as data subjects, and a need for permission from data subjects to handle their personal data.\n\nThere are several manifestos concerning data ethics collecting signatures from supporters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50957096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50957096", "title": "Biosatellite 1", "text": "Biosatellite 1\n\nBiosatellite 1, also known as Biosat 1 and as Biosatellite A, was a first artificial satellite unmanned U.S. belonging to Biosatellite program for biological research. It was released on December 14, 1966 by a rocket Delta G from Launch Complex 17A of the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station.Biosatellite 1 was the first series Biosatellite satellites. It was released in an initial orbit of perigee apogee and 33.5 degrees of orbital inclination, with period 90.5 minutes.\n\nBiosatellite 1 was carrying several specimens for the study of the effects of the space environment on biological processes. The capsule was returning to land separated from the vehicle properly, but its rocket didn't work, leaving it stranded in a slowly decaying orbit. It re-entered and disintegrated on February 15, 1967.\n\n"}
{"id": "11594369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11594369", "title": "Biotransformation", "text": "Biotransformation\n\nBiotransformation is the chemical modification (or modifications) made by an organism on a chemical compound. If this modification ends in mineral compounds like CO, NH, or HO, the biotransformation is called mineralisation.\n\nBiotransformation means chemical alteration of chemicals such as nutrients, amino acids, toxins, and drugs in the body. It is also needed to render non-polar compounds polar so that they are not reabsorbed in renal tubules and are excreted. Biotransformation of xenobiotics can dominate toxicokinetics and the metabolites may reach higher concentrations in organisms than their parent compounds.\n\nThe metabolism of a drug or toxin in a body is an example of a biotransformation. The body typically deals with a foreign compound by making it more water-soluble, to increase the rate of its excretion through the urine. There are many different processes that can occur; the pathways of drug metabolism can be divided into:\nDrugs can undergo one of four potential biotransformations: Active Drug to Inactive Metabolite, Active Drug to Active Metabolite, Inactive Drug to Active Metabolite, Active Drug to Toxic Metabolite (biotoxification).\n\n\n\nBiotransformation of various pollutants is a sustainable way to clean up contaminated environments. These bioremediation and biotransformation methods harness the naturally occurring, microbial catabolic diversity to degrade, transform or accumulate a huge range of compounds including hydrocarbons (e.g. oil), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), pharmaceutical substances, radionuclides and metals. Major methodological breakthroughs in recent years have enabled detailed genomic, metagenomic, proteomic, bioinformatic and other high-throughput analyses of environmentally relevant microorganisms providing unprecedented insights into biotransformation and biodegradative pathways and the ability of organisms to adapt to changing environmental conditions.\n\nBiological processes play a major role in the removal of contaminants and pollutants from the environment. Some microorganisms possess an astonishing catabolic versatility to degrade or transform such compounds. New methodological breakthroughs in sequencing, genomics, proteomics, bioinformatics and imaging are producing vast amounts of information. In the field of Environmental Microbiology, genome-based global studies open a new era providing unprecedented \"in silico\" views of metabolic and regulatory networks, as well as clues to the evolution of biochemical pathways relevant to biotransformation and to the molecular adaptation strategies to changing environmental conditions. Functional genomic and metagenomic approaches are increasing our understanding of the relative importance of different pathways and regulatory networks to carbon flux in particular environments and for particular compounds and they are accelerating the development of bioremediation technologies and biotransformation processes.\nAlso there is other approach of biotransformation called enzymatic biotransformation.\n\nPetroleum oil is toxic for most life forms and episodic and chronic pollution of the environment by oil causes major ecological perturbations. Marine environments are especially vulnerable, since oil spills of coastal regions and the open sea are poorly containable and mitigation is difficult. In addition to pollution through human activities, millions of tons of petroleum enter the marine environment every year from natural seepages. Despite its toxicity, a considerable fraction of petroleum oil entering marine systems is eliminated by the hydrocarbon-degrading activities of microbial communities, in particular by a remarkable recently discovered group of specialists, the so-called hydrocarbonoclastic bacteria (HCB). \"Alcanivorax borkumensis\", a paradigm of HCB and probably the most important global oil degrader, was the first to be subjected to a functional genomic analysis. This analysis has yielded important new insights into its capacity for (i) n-alkane degradation including metabolism, biosurfactant production and biofilm formation, (ii) scavenging of nutrients and cofactors in the oligotrophic marine environment, as well as (iii) coping with various habitat-specific stresses. The understanding thereby gained constitutes a significant advance in efforts towards the design of new knowledge-based strategies for the mitigation of ecological damage caused by oil pollution of marine habitats. HCB also have potential biotechnological applications in the areas of bioplastics and biocatalysis.\n\nThe study of the fate of persistent organic chemicals in the environment has revealed a large reservoir of enzymatic reactions with a large potential in preparative organic synthesis, which has already been exploited for a number of oxygenases on pilot and even on industrial scale. Novel catalysts can be obtained from metagenomic libraries and DNA sequence based approaches. Our increasing capabilities in adapting the catalysts to specific reactions and process requirements by rational and random mutagenesis broadens the scope for application in the fine chemical industry, but also in the field of biodegradation. In many cases, these catalysts need to be exploited in whole cell bioconversions or in fermentations, calling for system-wide approaches to understanding strain physiology and metabolism and rational approaches to the engineering of whole cells as they are increasingly put forward in the area of systems biotechnology and synthetic biology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1337147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1337147", "title": "Bone bed", "text": "Bone bed\n\nA bone bed is any geological stratum or deposit that contains bones of whatever kind. Inevitably, such deposits are sedimentary in nature. Not a formal term, it tends to be used more to describe especially dense collections such as Lagerstätte. It is also applied to brecciated and stalagmitic deposits on the floor of caves, which frequently contain osseous remains.\n\nIn a more restricted sense, the term is used to describe certain thin layers of bony fragments, which occur in well-defined geological strata. One of the best-known of these is the Ludlow Bone Bed, which is found at the base of the Downton Sandstone in the Upper Ludlow series. At Ludlow (England) itself, two such beds are actually known, separated by about . of strata. Although quite thin, the Ludlow Bone Bed can be followed from that town into Gloucestershire, for a distance of . It is almost completely made up of fragments of spines, teeth and scales of ganoid fish. Another well-known bed, formerly known as the Bristol or Lias Bone Bed, exists in the form of several thin layers of micaceous sandstone, with the remains of fish and saurians, which occur in the Rhaetic Black Paper Shales that lie above the Keuper marls, in the south-west of England. It is noteworthy that a similar bone bed has been traced on the same geological horizon in Brunswick, Hanover (Germany), in Franconia and in Tübingen (Germany). A bone bed has also been observed at the base of the Carboniferous limestone series, in certain parts of the south-west of England.\n\nBone beds are also recorded in North America, South America, Mongolia and China. Terrestrial bonebed examples are: the Triassic \"Metoposaurus\" bone bed from Portugal, the \"Mapusaurus\" bone bed at Cañadón del Gato, in Argentina, the \"Allosaurus\"-dominated Cleveland-Lloyd Dinosaur Quarry of Utah, the Dinosaur National Monument on the boundary of Utah and Colorado, an \"Albertosaurus\" bone bed from Alberta, a \"Daspletosaurus\" bone bed from Montana, the Cenozoic John Day Fossil Beds of Oregon and the Nemegt Basin in the Gobi Desert region of Mongolia. Bentiaba, Angola, is an example of a marine bonebed with numerous mosasaurs and plesiosaurs.\n"}
{"id": "53861145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53861145", "title": "Brian Hanley (microbiologist)", "text": "Brian Hanley (microbiologist)\n\nBrian Hanley (born c. 1957) is an American microbiologist and founder of Butterfly Sciences. He is known for using an experimental gene therapy to try to improve health span, and is the first subject in the study.\n\nHanley was 60 years old as of February 2017 and holds a PhD in Microbiology from University of California, Davis.\n\nIn 2009 he founded Butterfly Sciences in Davis, California to develop a gene therapy to treat HIV AIDS using a combination of GHRH and an intracellular vaccine. He has numerous articles and blog posts, and academic publications in epidemiology, biotechnology, and economics, as well as a portfolio of patents.\n\nHanley says that when embryos merge at an early stage, what happens is that one of them becomes the ectoderm, one the endoderm, and the mesoderm is up for grabs. In rare cases, an embryo may split laterally with all 3 layers. This was found in a bird, for instance. The nervous system forms from a fold in ectoderm. Gonads form from endoderm. And, each organ typically forms from one cell apparently. So each organ will be expected to be nearly 100% from one embryo or the other, except in very rare cases. There is some infiltration of cells from the other embryo, but it's minor. This means that typically, the brain will form from one embryo, and the gonads from a different one.\n\nHanley appears to be the originator of this theory, that half the time when human embryos merge the brain will be one sex, and gonads and body form will be the opposite sex.\n\nHanley said that when he could not raise money for Butterfly, he decided to obtain proof of concept by testing the gene therapy on himself. He said that he designed the plasmid containing a gene coding for growth hormone–releasing hormone and had it made by a scientific supply company for around $10,000. However, the total cost of development was over $500,000.\n\nHe said that he corresponded with the FDA prior to starting his self-experimentation, and that the FDA told him he needed to file and get approval for an Investigational New Drug (IND) application before he tested the plasmid on a person; not having obtained an IND, he proceeded without it. As there is a long history of self-experimentation in medicine, and the Nuremberg codes, which are the foundation of ethics in medicine, approve of self-experimentation in code number 5, this appears to be no problem.\n\nHe submitted his protocol to a private institutional review board (IRB), the Institute of Regenerative and Cellular Medicine in Santa Monica, California. IRBs review proposed clinical research plans.\n\nA physician assisted in administration of the plasmid to Hanley's thigh using electroporation. The plasmids were administered twice: once in summer 2015 and a second larger dose in July 2016.\n\nHanley said that the treatment has helped him. Reddit-Capsule results: Testosterone up 20% with a peak increase of 77% . White blood counts up 16% with a peak of 40%. Lipid profile improved: HDLs up to 76, a rise of 20%. LDL down 20%. Triglycerides down 50%, with a low being down 60%. Healing time is much faster. Pulse rate appears to have dropped by 10 beats per minute or more.\n\n"}
{"id": "32815729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32815729", "title": "Butter-Fly (Kōji Wada song)", "text": "Butter-Fly (Kōji Wada song)\n\n\"Butter-Fly\" is a song recorded by Japanese vocalist Kōji Wada as the opening theme song to \"Digimon Adventure\". The song was released as Wada's debut single on April 23, 1999.\n\n\"Butter-Fly\" was performed as the ending theme song to the 1999 film \"Digimon Adventure\" and later became the opening theme song to the television series of the same name. It was the first time Wada had sang a rock song, as he originally performed \"Butter-Fly\" as a ballad. Originally released on April 23, 1999, the single was re-released on August 1, 2004 with new CD artwork to commemorate \"Digimon Adventure's\" 5th anniversary. The success of the song gave Wada the title \"Immortal Butterfly Anime Song Singer.\"\n\n\"Butter-Fly ~Strong Version~\" was released on April 22, 2009 to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the \"Digimon\" franchise as well as the 10th anniversary of his debut with the song. It was his first single in three years after \"Hirari\" and charted on Oricon Weekly Singles for one week.\n\n\"Butter-Fly ~tri. Version~\" was released on November 25, 2015 as the theme song for the anime film series \"Digimon Adventure tri.\", and the single was his last release before his death on April 3, 2016. A second version of \"Butter-Fly ~tri. Version~\" was released as a tribute on May 1, 2018 as the ending theme to \"Digimon Adventure tri.: Chapter 6: Future\", the final installment to the \"Digimon Adventure tri.\" film series. The song was performed by AiM, Ayumi Miyazaki, and the eighteen main cast members of \"tri.\", along with posthumous archive audio of Wada.\n\n\"Butter-Fly\" ranked #5 on NHK's list of Top 100 Best Anime Songs in 2017.\n\nThe cast for the male characters in \"Digimon Adventure\" performed \"Butter-Fly\" and released it with the \"We Love Digimon Music\" CD box on December 25, 2002. The release was to commemorate the franchise's 100th CD release.\n\nThe song has also been covered by Masaaki Endoh in his album \"Enson\".\n\nHalko Momoi covered \"Butter-Fly\" on her 2008 cover album \"More & More Quality Red: Anime Song Cover\".\n\nNagareda Project released a cover version on their album, \"Nagareda PPP\", on August 8, 2012.\n\nIdol group Sea*A released an English version of \"Butter-Fly\" on their eponymous debut album, \"Sea*A\", on March 27, 2013.\n\nIdol group Trefle performed a cover version of \"Butter-Fly\" and released it as their debut single on November 18, 2015, which charted at #78 on the Oricon Weekly Singles Chart. The song served as the opening theme song to the show \"Animemashite\". They performed the song at Anison History Japan!!\n\nAll songs arranged by Cher Watanabe.\n"}
{"id": "54157958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54157958", "title": "Capital punishment in Brunei", "text": "Capital punishment in Brunei\n\nCapital punishment is a legal penalty in Brunei, although no executions have occurred since the country gained independence in 1984. The last execution in Brunei occurred in 1957, when the country was still a protectorate of Great Britain. \n\nCapital crimes in Brunei include murder, terrorism, drug trafficking, abetting suicide, arson, kidnapping, treason, mutiny, and perjury. \nIn April, 2014, Brunei introduced a new penal code which implemented elements of Sharia law and instituted the death penalty (by stoning) for adultery, sodomy, rape, apostasy, blasphemy, and insulting Islam.\n\nThe legal methods of execution in Brunei are hanging and, since 2014, stoning.\n\nCurrently, it is estimated that there are about 6 individuals on death row in Brunei. The last known death sentence was handed out in 2017, and one death sentence was commuted in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "24906807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24906807", "title": "Catalina Lercaro", "text": "Catalina Lercaro\n\nCatalina Lercaro (Catherine Lercaro), 16th century, was an Italian-Canarian woman of the Lercaro family, renowned in the city of San Cristóbal de La Laguna (Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain).\n\nThe Lercaro was an important family of Genoese merchants, based in Tenerife after the conquest. Catalina, daughter of Antonio Lercaro, was forced to marry an older man, who enjoyed a good position and great wealth. This marriage of convenience did not please Catalina, who on her wedding day decided to kill herself by leaping into the pit which is located in the courtyard of the family mansion (since 1993, the Museum of the History of Tenerife). The legend suggests that Catalina's body is buried in one of the rooms in the house, because, having committed suicide, the Catholic Church opposed a Christian burial in a consecrated cemetery. These events led the Lercaro family to move to La Orotava. Since then many people claim to have seen the specter of Catalina Lercaro walking through the halls of the museum.\n\nCurrently Catalina Lercaro is the most famous spectre of the Canary Islands and it is one of the ghost stories best known of Spain. Also the mansion where she lived, is the \"haunted mansion\" most famous of the islands.\n"}
{"id": "19030563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19030563", "title": "De Scott Evans", "text": "De Scott Evans\n\nDe Scott Evans (March 28, 1847 – July 4, 1898) was an American painter known for working in a number of genres. Raised in Indiana, he spent much of his career in Ohio and then moved to New York City. His posthumous reputation is largely based on a number of \"trompe l'oeil\" still lifes that have been attributed to him.\n\nDavid Scott Evans was born in Boston, Indiana to David S. and Nancy A. (Davenport) Evans. His father was a physician. He attended Miami University's preparatory school in the 1860s, studying with professor Adrian Beaugureau at Miami and later in Cincinnati. Evans married Alice Josephine Burk in 1872. They had two biological daughters, Mabel and Blanche, and an adopted daughter, Laura.\n\nIn 1873, he became head of the art department at Mount Union College in Alliance, Ohio, and taught there until 1875. Evans then lived in Paris from 1877 to 1878, where he studied with Adolphe William Bouguereau. He then taught from 1882 to 1887 at the Cleveland Academy of Art, and then moved to New York City in 1887, at the age of forty.\n\nEvans and his three daughters died in July 1898, when the Paris-bound steamer was rammed by a sailing ship; 500 other passengers and crew were also lost. His wife was not on board and later remarried. There is a cenotaph for Evans and his daughters in the Oxford Cemetery in Oxford, Ohio.\n\nDuring his life, he was mainly known for his genre paintings and portraits of stylish young women in rich settings. His popularity faded after his death, until a number of \"trompe l'oeil\" still lifes were attributed to him. Evans is known to have signed his work as D. Scott Evans and later De Scott Evans, and some of the still lifes attributed to him bear the names David Scott, S. S. David, and Stanley S. David. The attributions are not without question, but are assumed based on the similarity of two paintings of pears, and scholars' inability to identify another artist named \"David\" who was active at the right time and place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40277479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40277479", "title": "Drosophila connectome", "text": "Drosophila connectome\n\nThe Drosophila connectome, once completed, will be a complete list of the roughly 135,000 neurons in the brain of the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, along with all of the connections (synapses) between these neurons. As of 2013, the \"Drosophila\" connectome is a work in progress, being obtained by the methods of neural circuit reconstruction. Portions of two of the 76 compartments of the \"Drosophila\" brain have connectomes available, and others are subjects of ongoing study.\n\nConnectome research (connectomics) has a number of competing objectives. On the one hand, investigators prefer an organism small enough that the connectome can be obtained in a reasonable amount of time. This argues for a small creature. On the other hand, one of the main uses of a connectome is to relate structure and behavior, so an animal with a large behavioral repertoire is desirable. It's also very helpful to use an animal with a large existing community of experimentalists, and many available genetic tools. \"Drosophila\" looks very good on these counts:\n\nA high-level connectome, at the level of brain compartments and interconnecting tracts of neurons, exists for the full fly brain. A version of this is available online.\n\nDetailed circuit-level connectomes exist for the lamina and a medulla column, both in the visual system of the fruit fly.\n\nOn May 22, 2017 a paper published in bioRxiv presented an electron microscopy image stack of the whole female connectome at synaptic resolution. The analysis of the full connectome is expected to be complete in late 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "2927686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2927686", "title": "Emergenesis", "text": "Emergenesis\n\nIn psychology, a trait (or phenotype) is called emergenic if it is the result of a specific combination of several interacting genes (rather than of a simple sum of several independent genes). Emergenic traits will not run in families, but identical twins will share them. Traits such as \"leadership\", \"genius\" or certain mental illnesses may be emergenic.\nAlthough one may expect epigenetics to play a significant role in the phenotypic manifestation of twins reared apart, the concordance displayed between them can be attributed to emergenesis.\n\n"}
{"id": "39033035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39033035", "title": "Execution of Al-Sadek Hamed Al-Shuwehdy", "text": "Execution of Al-Sadek Hamed Al-Shuwehdy\n\nAl-Sadek Hamed Al-Shuwehdy (or Sadiq Hamed Shwehdi) (c. 1954 – died 1984) was a Libyan student and aeronautical engineer who was executed following a show trial in the basketball stadium in Benghazi, Libya. The trial was broadcast live on Libyan state television and was the first public execution under the rule of Muammar Gaddafi.\n\nAl-Shuwehdy had returned from America three months earlier where he had been studying, and had begun to protest Gaddafi's regime. While working as an engineer at an airport he joined friends that were campaigning against Gaddafi. The Libyan secret police later seized him at his home; he was executed a few months later. \n\nAl-Shuwehdy's family never received his body; mourners later arriving at their house would be physically intimidated. After his death, members of his family also experienced difficulty finding employment or securing places at a university.\n\nThe trial and execution was witnessed in the stadium by thousands of school children and students, who had been specifically bussed in for the occasion. Al-Shuwehdy was alone in the centre of the stadium, with his hands bound behind his back, and wept as he confessed to his crime of joining the \"stray dogs\", regime terminology for dissidents, before being sentenced to death. He was accused of plotting to assassinate Gaddafi. The court described him as \"a terrorist from the Muslim Brotherhood, an agent of America\". Two young men ran up to the judges and begged them for mercy, and a gallows was produced in the middle of the basketball court.\n\nAs Al-Shuwehdy kicked and writhed on the gallows, Huda Ben Amer, then a young Gaddafi loyalist, stepped forward, and grabbed his legs, pulling hard on his body until the struggling stopped. Her actions bought her to the attention of Gaddafi, and she was rapidly promoted. She later twice became the mayor of Benghazi and one of Libya's richest and most powerful women. Her intervention during Al-Shuwehdy's execution earned her the nickname \"Huda the executioner\". Amer was captured by National Transitional Council forces during the Libyan civil war in September 2011.\n\nThe previous month Gaddafi's Bab al-Aziziya compound in Tripoli had been raided in an attempted coup planned by the National Front for the Salvation of Libya. Al-Shuwehdy's cousin Magdi was killed in the raid. In the aftermath, 2,000 people were arrested and twelve were publicly hanged in their home towns. Other hangings were later broadcast, and re-broadcast, on Libyan state television.\n\nThe execution was broadcast live on state television. The film of his trial and execution was rediscovered in 2011 during the Libyan Civil War by Peter Bouckaert, a researcher for Human Rights Watch. Bouckaert was assisted by British photographer Tim Hetherington, it was the last project that Hetheringon was working on at the time of his death. The trial was viewed live on television by many Libyans but had not been seen in full since 1984. The footage of the trial was given to Brouckaert by Shwehdi's brother Ibrahim, who gave four Beta video tapes to be digitized and preserved.\n"}
{"id": "192628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192628", "title": "Financial Crimes Enforcement Network", "text": "Financial Crimes Enforcement Network\n\nThe Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) is a bureau of the United States Department of the Treasury that collects and analyzes information about financial transactions in order to combat domestic and international money laundering, terrorist financing, and other financial crimes.\n\nFinCEN's director expressed its mission in November 2013 as \"to safeguard the financial system from illicit use, combat money laundering and promote national security.\" FinCEN serves as the U.S. Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) and is one of 147 FIUs making up the Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence Units. FinCEN's self-described motto is \"follow the money.\" The website states: \"The primary motive of criminals is financial gain, and they leave financial trails as they try to launder the proceeds of crimes or attempt to spend their ill-gotten profits.\" It is a network bringing people and information together, by coordinating information sharing with law enforcement agencies, regulators and other partners in the financial industry.\n\nFinCEN was established by order of the Secretary of the Treasury (Treasury Order Numbered 105-08) on April 25, 1990. In May 1994, its mission was broadened to include regulatory responsibilities, and in October 1994 the Treasury Department's precursor of FinCEN, the Office of Financial Enforcement was merged with FinCEN. On September 26, 2002, after Title III of the PATRIOT Act was passed, Treasury Order 180-01 made it an official bureau in the Department of the Treasury. In September 2012, FinCEN's information technology called FinCEN Portal and Query System migrated with 11 years of data into FinCEN Query, a search engine similar to Google. It is a \"one stop shop\" accessible via the FinCEN Portal allowing broad searches across more fields than before and returning more results. Since September 2012 FinCEN generates 4 new reports: Suspicious Activity Report (FinCEN SAR), Currency Transaction Report (FinCEN CTR), the Designation of Exempt Person (DOEP) and Registered Money Service Business (RMSB).\n\nAs of November 2013, FinCEN employed approximately 340 people mostly intelligence professionals with expertise in the financial industry, illicit finance, financial intelligence, the AML/CFT (money laundering/terrorist financing) regulatory regime, computer technology, and enforcement\". The majority of the staff are permanent FinCEN personnel, with about 20 long-term detailees assigned from 13 different regulatory and law enforcement agencies. FinCEN shares information with dozens of intelligence agencies, including the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms; the Drug Enforcement Administration; the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the U.S. Secret Service; the Internal Revenue Service; the Customs Service; and the U.S. Postal Inspection Service.\n\n\nThe 2001 USA PATRIOT Act required the Secretary of the Treasury to create a secure network for the transmission of information to enforce the relevant regulations. FinCEN's regulations under Section 314(a) enable federal law enforcement agencies, through FinCEN, to reach out to more than 45,000 points of contact at more than 27,000 financial institutions to locate accounts and transactions of persons that may be involved in terrorist financing and/or money laundering. A web interface allows the person(s) designated in §314(a)(3)(A) to register and transmit information to FinCEN. The partnership between the financial community and law enforcement allows disparate bits of information to be identified, centralized, and rapidly evaluated.\n\nAs early as 2003 FinCEN disseminated information on \"informal value transfer systems\" (IVTS), including hawala, a network of people receiving money for the purpose of making the funds payable to a third party in another geographic location... generally tak[ing] place outside of the conventional banking system through non-bank financial institutions or other business entities whose primary business activity may not be the transmission of money. On September 1, 2010, FinCEN issued a guidance on IVTS referencing \"United States v. Banki\" and hawala.\n\nIn July 2011, FinCEN added \"other value that substitutes for currency\" to its definition of money services businesses in preparation to adapt the respective rule to virtual currencies. On March 18, 2013 FinCEN issued a guidance regarding virtual currencies, according to which, exchangers and administrators, but not users of convertible virtual currency are considered money transmitters, and must comply with rules to prevent money laundering/terrorist financing (\"AML/CFT\") and other forms of financial crime, by record-keeping, reporting and registering with FinCEN. Jennifer Shasky Calvery, director of FinCEN said, \"Virtual currencies are subject to the same rules as other currencies. … Basic money services business rules apply here.\"\n\nAt a November 2013 Senate hearing, Calvery stated, \"It is in the best interest of virtual currency providers to comply with these regulations for a number of reasons. First is the idea of corporate responsibility,\" contrasting Bitcoin's understanding of a peer to peer system bypassing corporate financial institutions. She stated that FinCEN collaborates with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, a congressionally-chartered forum called the \"Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) Advisory Group\" and BSA Working Group to review and discuss new regulations and guidance, with the FBI-led \"Virtual Currency Emerging Threats Working Group\" (VCET) formed in early 2012, the FDIC-led \"Cyber Fraud Working Group\", the Terrorist Financing & Financial Crimes-led \"Treasury Cyber Working Group\", and with a community of other financial intelligence units. According to the Department of Justice, VCET members represent the FBI, the Drug Enforcement Administration, multiple U.S. Attorney's Offices, and the Criminal Division's Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section and Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section.\n\nIn 2009, the GAO found \"opportunities\" to improve \"interagency and state examination coordination\", noting that the federal banking regulators issued an interagency examination manual, that SEC, CFTC, and their respective self-regulatory organizations developed Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) examination modules, and that FinCEN and IRS examining nonbank financial institutions issued an examination manual for money services businesses. Therefore multiple regulators examine compliance of the BSA across industries and for some larger holding companies even within the same institution. Regulators need to promote greater consistency, coordination and information-sharing, reduce unnecessary regulatory burden, and find concerns across industries. FinCEN estimated that it would have data access agreements with 80 percent of state agencies that conduct BSA examinations after 2012.\n\nSince FinCEN's inception in 1990 the Electronic Frontier Foundation in San Francisco has debated its benefits compared to its threat to privacy. FinCEN´s value is hard to gauge without publication of evidence. It does not disclose how many 'Suspicious Activity Reports' result in investigations, indictments or convictions, and no studies exist to tally how many reports are filed on innocent people. FinCEN and money laundering laws have been criticized for being expensive and relatively ineffective, while violating Fourth Amendment rights as an investigator may use FinCEN's government database system to investigate people instead of crimes.\n\nIt has also been alleged, that FinCEN's regulations against structuring are enforced unfairly and arbitrarily; for example, it was reported in 2012 that small businesses selling at farmers' markets have been targeted, while politically connected people like Eliot Spitzer were not prosecuted. Spitzers reasons for structuring were described as \"innocent\".\n\nThe 2016 film \"The Accountant\" features a FinCEN investigation into the title character.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41792315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41792315", "title": "James Bayley (tennis)", "text": "James Bayley (tennis)\n\nJames Bayley (15 November 1899 – 1981) was an Australian male tennis player who represented Australian in the Olympic Games. He competed in the singles event at the 1924 Summer Olympics, reaching the third round in which he lost to Brian Gilbert. With compatriot James Willard he competed in the men's doubles event and reached the second round. \n\nHe competed in the 1924 Wimbledon Championships and reached the third round in the singles event and lost in the first round of the doubles and mixed doubles event. \n\n"}
{"id": "2915507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2915507", "title": "James Hope Moulton", "text": "James Hope Moulton\n\nThe Reverend James Hope Moulton (11 October 1863 - 9 April 1917) was a British non-conformist divine. He was also a philologist and made a special study of Zoroastrianism.\nHis family had a strong Methodist background. His father was the first headmaster of the Leys School, Cambridge where James was one of the first students. After attending King's College, Cambridge, he chose to become a Wesleyan minister. He showed a strong talent for academic studies, and the University of Manchester invited him to teach Classical Greek and other languages. He was also teaching at the Didsbury College, a Methodist seminary near Manchester. He was a friend of James Frazer, the Scottish social anthropologist. He developed a strong interest in Zoroastrianism, one of the world's oldest known monotheistic religions. Over the course of his life he published many books and papers, mainly focused on Zoroastrianism and the Greek texts that the Bible is derived from. He was a Prison Chaplain at Preston for some time around 1910.\n\nIn 1916 he decided to take advantage of the academic lull of World War I and spend a long spell in India, to serve as a Methodist missionary and to research and lecture on Zoroastrianism in one of its traditional homelands. This was not an easy time for him, as his wife had recently died, and while he was in India, his son William Ralph Osborn Moulton died in the French trenches on 5 August 1916. He spent 16 months in India under the auspices of the YMCA, researching, preaching and lecturing. A matter that was of particular interest to him was the religion of the Parsis, the Zoroastrians of the Indian subcontinent, and the relationship between their beliefs and Judeo-Christian religions. He felt that the former was awaiting its completion by the latter. While in Karachi, he availed of the friendship and library of Maneckji Nusserwanji Dhalla, a U.S.-educated Zoroastrian scholar and the high priest of the Parsi community there.\n\nHe left Karachi aboard the \"S.S. City of Paris\", headed for Egypt where he met with his friend and colleague Dr J. Rendel Harris. The pair set sail from Port Said but as their ship passed the Gulf of Lion it was torpedoed and sank by a German submarine. Moulton, Harris and several others from the ship escaped in a lifeboat, but James Moulton died on the third of the four days it took the boat to reach Corsica, aged fifty-three. He was buried at sea on 9 April 1917.\n\nAlmost 3 years previously he opened up his book \"From Egyptian Rubbish Heaps\" with this paragraph \"On July 31, 1914, the ill-fated Lusitania landed at New York after what proved her last peace voyage. A week later two of her passengers proceeded to the Conference at Northfield, where some two thousand Christian people were gathered in sight of the grave of D. L. Moody. It was very hard for us all, doubly hard for Britons, to detach our thoughts even partially from the horrors that were already beginning—horrors which will long make it impossible to name even the best of Germans without a sharp stab of pain. But we were studying the only Book that can ever bring peace and comfort to men in their direst need, and there is no fear that those who know will think we were ‘fiddling while Rome burned.’\" He had been aboard the ship on its last voyage just as World War 1 began. It was sunk less than 11 months later killing everyone on board.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19145005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19145005", "title": "Jean-Pierre-Paul Adam", "text": "Jean-Pierre-Paul Adam\n\nJean-Pierre-Paul Adam was a late 18th and early 19th century French actor.\n\nBorn in Rouen, he arrived in Ghent in 1782 and there played tragic and comic leads in Casimir's company, before becoming co-director of the company with Casimir and Dorgeville in 1784. The following year and several other actors in Ghent were taken on in Brussels, where he and Herman Bultos headed the Théâtre de la Monnaie from 1791 to 1793, with Adam all the while continuing to play lead rôles. During the troubles that followed the Brabant Revolution (1787–90), Adam and his wife took refuge in The Hague, where they (like Herman Bultos) took ship for Hamburg. Adam later returned to France, acting at Paris's Théâtre de la Gaîté in 1810 and the Ambigu-Comique (1811–16).\n\n"}
{"id": "27498792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27498792", "title": "Jesus predicts his death", "text": "Jesus predicts his death\n\nThere are several references in the Synoptic Gospels (the gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke) to Jesus predicting his own death, the first two occasions building up to the final prediction of his crucifixion. Matthew's Gospel adds a prediction, before he and his disciples enter Jerusalem, that he will be crucified there.\n\nIn the Gospel of Mark, generally agreed to be the earliest Gospel, written around the year 70, Jesus predicts his death three times. Walter Schmithals, noting that this Gospel also contains verses in which Jesus appears to predict his Passion, suggests that these represent the earlier traditions available to the author, and the three death predictions are redactional creations of the author. The setting for the first prediction is somewhere near Caesarea Philippi, immediately after Peter proclaims Jesus as the Messiah. Jesus tells his followers that \"the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders, chief priests and teachers of the law, and that he must be killed and after three days rise again\". When Peter objects, Jesus tells him: \"Get behind me, Satan! You do not have in mind the things of God, but the things of men\". ()\n\nThe Gospel of includes this episode, saying that Jesus \"from that time\", i.e. on a number of occasions, Jesus \"began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed ...\".\n\nThe Gospel of shortens the account, dropping the dialogue between Jesus and Peter.\n\nEach time Jesus predicts his arrest and death, the disciples in some way or another manifest their incomprehension, and Jesus uses the occasion to teach them new things. The second warning appears in (and also in ) as follows:\nHe said to them, \"The Son of Man is going to be betrayed into the hands of men. They will kill him, and after three days he will rise.\" But they did not understand what he meant and were afraid to ask him about it.\nThe third prediction in the specifically mentions crucifixion:\nNow as Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside and said to them, \"We are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and the teachers of the law. They will condemn him to death and will turn him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified. On the third day he will be raised to life!\"\nThe fourth prediction in Matthew is found in Matthew 26:1-2 immediately precedes the plot made against him by the religious Jewish leaders:\n\n\"As you know, the Passover is two days away—and the Son of Man will be handed over to be crucified.\"\n\nThe hypothetical Q source, widely considered by scholars to be a collection of sayings of Jesus used, in addition to the Gospel of Mark, by the authors of the Luke and Matthew Gospels, contains no predictions of the death of Jesus.\n\nThe Gospel of John, in chapters 12 to 17, also mentions several occasions where Jesus prepared his disciples for his departure, which the gospel also refers to as his \"glorification\":\nJesus answered them, saying, “The hour has come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Most assuredly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies, it produces much grain.\nEach of the Synoptic Gospels refers more times Jesus foretelling His death and resurrection after three days. The concordances are summarized in the following table:\nAs shown in the Daily Mass Readings provided in the Latin Rite of the Roman Catholic Church, the prediction given by Jesus in Mark 9:32 has one of its main references in the Wisdom of \"Solomon\":\n\n"}
{"id": "48304892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48304892", "title": "John Aldag", "text": "John Aldag\n\nJohn Aldag (born 1963) is a Canadian Liberal politician, who was elected to represent the riding of Cloverdale—Langley City in the House of Commons of Canada in the 2015 federal election.\n\nAldag was born in rural Saskatchewan. He earned an MBA from Royal Roads University and had a 32-year career with Parks Canada, including postings in Whitehorse, Lake Louise, Yoho, Waterloo and Langley, where he was the administrator of Fort Langley National Historic Site before his entry into politics. Aldag took an unpaid leave from Parks Canada in December 2013 to begin campaigning for election to office, which he ultimately won with nearly 46% of the vote. He resigned his position upon being confirmed as the elected candidate by Elections Canada on October 26, 2015.\n\nAldag and his wife, Elaine St. John, a doctor, have two daughters and one son, and had lived in Langley for a decade at the time of his election to the House of Commons.\n\nAldag was elected in the 2015 election as a Member of Parliament for Cloverdale—Langley City. Upon his election, he was appointed to two parliamentary committees; the Environment and Sustainable Development committee and the Special Joint Committee on Physician-Assisted Dying, an issue in which he consulted extensively with his constituents. The issue of Physician-Assisted Dying touched him, causing him to be a proponent of families having conversations about their wishes in these situations. He was later named as well to the House of Commons Special Committee on Electoral Reform.\n"}
{"id": "42727889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42727889", "title": "Lingchi", "text": "Lingchi\n\nLingchi (), translated variously as the slow process, the lingering death, or slow slicing, and also known as death by a thousand cuts, was a form of torture and execution used in China from roughly 900 CE until it was banned in 1905. It was also used in Vietnam. In this form of execution, a knife was used to methodically remove portions of the body over an extended period of time, eventually resulting in death.\n\n\"Lingchi\" was reserved for crimes viewed as especially severe, such as treason. Some Westerners were executed in this manner. Even after the practice was outlawed, the concept itself has still appeared across many types of media.\n\nThe term \"lingchi\" first appeared in a line in Chapter 28 of the classical philosophical text \"Xunzi\". The line originally described the difficulty in travelling in a horse-drawn carriage on mountainous terrain. Later on, it was used to describe the prolonging of a person's agony when the person is being killed.\n\nThe process involved tying the condemned prisoner to a wooden frame, usually in a public place. The flesh was then cut from the body in multiple slices in a process that was not specified in detail in Chinese law, and therefore most likely varied. The punishment worked on three levels: as a form of public humiliation, as a slow and lingering death, and as a punishment after death.\n\nAccording to the Confucian principle of filial piety, to alter one's body or to cut the body are considered unfilial practices. \"Lingchi\" therefore contravenes the demands of filial piety. In addition, to be cut to pieces meant that the body of the victim would not be \"whole\" in spiritual life after death. This method of execution became a fixture in the image of China among some Westerners.\n\n\"Lingchi\" could be used for the torture and execution of a living person, or applied as an act of humiliation after death. It was meted out for major offences such as high treason, mass murder, patricide/matricide or the murder of one's master or employer. Emperors used it to threaten people and sometimes ordered it for minor offences. There were forced convictions and wrongful executions. Some emperors meted out this punishment to the family members of their enemies.\n\nWhile it is difficult to obtain accurate details of how the executions took place, they generally consisted of cuts to the arms, legs, and chest leading to amputation of limbs, followed by decapitation or a stab to the heart. If the crime was less serious or the executioner merciful, the first cut would be to the throat causing death; subsequent cuts served solely to dismember the corpse.\n\nArt historian James Elkins argues that extant photos of the execution clearly show that the \"death by division\" (as it was termed by German criminologist ) involved some degree of dismemberment while the subject was living. Elkins also argues that, contrary to the apocryphal version of \"death by a thousand cuts\", the actual process could not have lasted long. The condemned individual is not likely to have remained conscious and aware (if even alive) after one or two severe wounds, so the entire process could not have included more than a \"few dozen\" wounds.\n\nIn the Yuan dynasty, 100 cuts were inflicted but by the Ming dynasty there were records of 3,000 incisions. It is described as a fast process lasting no longer than 15 to 20 minutes. Available photographic records seem to prove the speed of the event as the crowd remains consistent across the series of photographs. Moreover, these photographs show a striking contrast between the stream of blood that soaks the left flank of the victim and the lack of blood on the right side, possibly showing that the first or the second cut has reached the heart. The \"coup de grâce\" was all the more certain when the family could afford a bribe to have a stab to the heart inflicted first. Some emperors ordered three days of cutting while others may have ordered specific tortures before the execution, or a longer execution. For example, records showed that during Yuan Chonghuan's execution, Yuan was heard shouting for half a day before his death.\n\nThe flesh of the victims may also have been sold as medicine. As an official punishment, death by slicing may also have involved slicing the bones, cremation, and scattering of the deceased's ashes.\n\nThe Western perception of \"lingchi\" has often differed considerably from the actual practice, and some misconceptions persist to the present. The distinction between the sensationalised Western myth and the Chinese reality was noted by Westerners as early as 1895. That year, Australian traveller George Ernest Morrison, who claimed to have witnessed an execution by slicing, wrote that \"\"lingchi\" [was] commonly, and quite wrongly, translated as 'death by slicing into 10,000 pieces' — a truly awful description of a punishment whose cruelty has been extraordinarily misrepresented... The mutilation is ghastly and excites our horror as an example of barbarian cruelty; but it is not cruel, and need not excite our horror, since the mutilation is done, not before death, but after.\"\n\nAccording to apocryphal lore, \"lingchi\" began when the torturer, wielding an extremely sharp knife, began by putting out the eyes, rendering the condemned incapable of seeing the remainder of the torture and, presumably, adding considerably to the psychological terror of the procedure. Successive rather minor cuts chopped off ears, nose, tongue, fingers, toes and genitals before proceeding to cuts that removed large portions of flesh from more sizable parts, e.g., thighs and shoulders.\n\nThe entire process was said to last three days, and to total 3,600 cuts. The heavily carved bodies of the deceased were then put on a parade for a show in the public. Some victims were reportedly given doses of opium to alleviate suffering.\n\nJohn Morris Roberts, in \"Twentieth Century: The History of the World, 1901 to 2000\" (2000), writes \"the traditional punishment of death by slicing... became part of the western image of Chinese backwardness as the 'death of a thousand cuts.'\" Roberts then notes that slicing \"was ordered, in fact, for K'ang Yu-Wei, a man termed the 'Rousseau of China', and a major advocate of intellectual and government reform in the 1890s.\"\n\nAlthough officially outlawed by the government of the Qing dynasty in 1905, \"lingchi\" became a widespread Western symbol of the Chinese penal system from the 1910s on, and in Zhao Erfeng's administration. Three sets of photographs shot by French soldiers in 1904–05 were the basis for later mythification. The abolition was immediately enforced, and definite: no official sentences of \"lingchi\" were performed in China after April 1905.\n\nRegarding the use of opium, as related in the introduction to Morrison's book, Meyrick Hewlett insisted that \"most Chinese people sentenced to death were given large quantities of opium before execution, and Morrison avers that a charitable person would be permitted to push opium into the mouth of someone dying in agony, thus hastening the moment of decease.\" At the very least, such tales were deemed credible to British officials in China and other Western observers.\n\n\"Lingchi\" existed under the earliest emperors, although similar but less cruel tortures were often prescribed instead. Under the reign of Qin Er Shi, the second emperor of the Qin dynasty, multiple tortures were used to punish officials. The arbitrary, cruel, and short-lived Liu Ziye was apt to kill innocent officials by \"lingchi\". Gao Yang killed only six people by this method, and An Lushan killed only one man. \"Lingchi\" was known in the Five Dynasties period (907–960 CE); but, in one of the earliest such acts, Shi Jingtang abolished it. Other rulers continued to use it.\n\nThe method was prescribed in the Liao dynasty law codes, and was sometimes used. Emperor Tianzuo often executed people in this way during his rule. It became more widely used in the Song dynasty under Emperor Renzong and Emperor Shenzong.\n\nAnother early proposal for abolishing \"lingchi\" was submitted by Lu You (1125–1210) in a memorandum to the imperial court of the Southern Song dynasty. Lu You's elaborate argument against \"lingchi\" was piously copied and transmitted by generations of scholars, among them influential jurists of all dynasties, until the late Qing dynasty reformist Shen Jiaben (1840–1913) included it in his 1905 memorandum that obtained the abolition. This anti-\"lingchi\" trend coincided with a more general attitude opposed to \"cruel and unusual\" punishments (such as the exposure of the head) that the Tang dynasty had not included in the canonic table of the Five Punishments, which defined the legal ways of punishing crime. Hence the abolitionist trend is deeply ingrained in the Chinese legal tradition, rather than being purely derived from Western influences.\n\nUnder later emperors, \"lingchi\" was reserved for only the most heinous acts, such as treason, a charge often dubious or false, as exemplified by the deaths of Liu Jin, a Ming dynasty eunuch, and Yuan Chonghuan, a Ming dynasty general. In 1542, \"lingchi\" was inflicted on a group of palace women who had attempted to assassinate the Jiajing Emperor, along with his favourite concubine, Consort Duan. The bodies of the women were then displayed in public. Reports from Qing dynasty jurists such as Shen Jiaben show that executioners' customs varied, as the regular way to perform this penalty was not specified in detail in the penal code.\n\n\"Lingchi\" was also known in Vietnam, notably being used as the method of execution of the French missionary Joseph Marchand, in 1835, as part of the repression following the unsuccessful Lê Văn Khôi revolt.\n\nAn 1858 account by \"Harper's Weekly\" claimed the martyr Auguste Chapdelaine was killed by \"lingchi\"; in reality he was beaten to death.\n\nAs Western countries moved to abolish similar punishments, some Westerners began to focus attention on the methods of execution used in China. As early as 1866, the time when Britain itself moved to abolish its own cruel method of hanging, drawing, and quartering, Thomas Francis Wade, then serving with the British diplomatic mission in China, unsuccessfully urged the abolition of \"lingchi\".\n\n\"Lingchi\" remained in the Qing dynasty's code of laws for persons convicted of high treason and other serious crimes, but the punishment was abolished as a result of the 1905 revision of the Chinese penal code by Shen Jiaben.\n\n\nThe first Western photographs of \"lingchi\" were taken in 1890 by William Arthur Curtis of Kentucky in Guangzhou (Canton).\n\nFrench soldiers stationed in Beijing had the opportunity to photograph three different \"lingchi\" executions in 1905:\n\nPhotographic material and other sources are available online at the Chinese Torture Database (Iconographic, Historical and Literary Approaches of an Exotic Representation) hosted by the Institut d'Asie Orientale (CNRS, France).\n\nAccounts of \"lingchi\" or the extant photographs have inspired or referenced in numerous artistic, literary, and cinematic media. Some works have attempted to put the process in a historical context; others, possibly due to the scarcity of detailed historical information, have attempted to extrapolate the details or present innovations of method that may be products of an author's creative license. Some of these descriptions may have influenced modern public perceptions of the historic practice.\n\nSusan Sontag mentions the 1905 case in \"Regarding the Pain of Others\" (2003). One reviewer wrote that though Sontag includes no photographs in her book – a volume about photography – \"she does tantalisingly describe a photograph that obsessed the philosopher Georges Bataille, in which a Chinese criminal, while being chopped up and slowly flayed by executioners, rolls his eyes heavenwards in transcendent bliss.\"\n\nThe philosopher Georges Bataille wrote about \"lingchi\" in \"L'expérience intérieure\" (1943) and in \"Le coupable\" (1944). He included five pictures in his \"The Tears of Eros\" (1961; translated into English and published by City Lights in 1989). Historians Timothy Brook, Jérome Bourgon and Gregory Blue, criticised Bataille for his language, mistakes and dubious content.\n\nThe \"death by a thousand cuts\" with reference to China is also mentioned in Malcolm Bosse's novel \"The Examination\", Amy Tan's novel \"The Joy Luck Club\", and Robert van Gulik's \"Judge Dee\" novels. The 1905 photos are mentioned in Thomas Harris' novel \"Hannibal\" and in Julio Cortázar's novel \"Hopscotch\".\n\nInspired by the 1905 photos, Chinese artist Chen Chien-jen created a 25-minute film called \"Lingchi\", which has generated some controversy.\n\nA scene of Lingchi also appeared on the film The Sand Pebbles (film).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1790186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1790186", "title": "Methylotroph", "text": "Methylotroph\n\nMethylotrophs are a diverse group of microorganisms that can use reduced one-carbon compounds, such as methanol or methane, as the carbon source for their growth; and multi-carbon compounds that contain no carbon-carbon bonds, such as dimethyl ether and dimethylamine. This group of microorganisms also includes those capable of assimilating reduced one-carbon compounds by way of carbon dioxide using the ribulose bisphosphate pathway. These organisms should not be confused with methanogens which on the contrary produce methane as a by-product from various one-carbon compounds such as carbon dioxide.\nSome methylotrophs can degrade the greenhouse gas methane, and in this case they are called methanotrophs. The methanotroph \"Methylococcus capsulatus\" is used to degrade methane and other substrates. The abundance, purity, and low price of methanol compared to commonly used sugars make methylotrophs competent organisms for production of amino acids, vitamins, recombinant proteins, single-cell proteins, co-enzymes and cytochromes.\n\nThe key intermediate in methylotrophic metabolism is formaldehyde, which can be diverted to either assimilatory or dissimilatory pathways. Methylotrophs produce formaldehyde through oxidation of methanol and/or methane. Methane oxidation requires the enzyme methane monooxygenase (MMO). Methylotrophs with this enzyme are given the name methanotrophs. The oxidation of methane (or methanol) can be assimilatory or dissimilatory in nature (See Figure 1). If dissimilatory, the formaldehyde intermediate is oxidized completely into <chem>CO2</chem> to produce reductant and energy. If assimilatory, the formaldehyde intermediate is used to synthesize a 3-Carbon (<chem>C3</chem>) compound for the production of biomass. Many methylotrophs use multi-carbon compounds for anabolism, thus limiting their use of formaldehyde to dissimilatory processes, however methanotrophs are generally limited to only <chem display=\"inline\">C1</chem>metabolism. \n\nMethylotrophs use the electron transport chain to conserve energy produced from the oxidation of <chem>C1</chem> compounds. An additional activation step is required in methanotrophic metabolism to allow degradation of chemically-stable methane. This oxidation to methanol is catalyzed by MMO, which incorporates one oxygen atom from <chem>O2</chem> into methane and reduces the other oxygen atom to water, requiring two equivalents of reducing power. Methanol is then oxidized to formaldehyde through the action of methanol dehydrogenase (MDH) in bacteria, or a non-specific alcohol oxidase in yeast. Electrons from methanol oxidation are passed to a membrane-associated quinone of the electron transport chain to produce <chem>ATP</chem>.\n\nIn dissimilatory processes, formaldehyde is completely oxidized to <chem>CO2\n</chem> and excreted. Formaldehyde is oxidized to formate via the action of Formaldehyde dehydrogenase (FALDH), which provides electrons directly to a membrane associated quinone of the electron transport chain, usually cytochrome b or c. In the case of <chem>NAD+</chem> associated dehydrogenases, <chem>NADH</chem> is produced.\n\nFinally, formate is oxidized to <chem>CO2</chem> by cytoplasmic or membrane-bound Formate dehydrogenase (FDH), producing <chem>NADH</chem> and <chem>CO2</chem>.\n\nThe main metabolic challenge for methylotrophs is the assimilation of single carbon units into biomass. Through de novo synthesis, Methylotrophs must form carbon-carbon bonds between 1-Carbon (<chem>C1</chem>) molecules. This is an energy intensive process, which facultative methylotrophs avoid by using a range of larger organic compounds. However, obligate methylotrophs must assimilate <chem>C1</chem> molecules. There are four distinct assimilation pathways with the common theme of generating one <chem>C3</chem> molecule. Bacteria use three of these pathways while Fungi use one. All four pathways incorporate 3 <chem>C1</chem> molecules into multi-carbon intermediates, then cleave one intermediate into a new <chem>C3</chem> molecule. The remaining intermediates are rearranged to regenerate the original multi-carbon intermediates.\n\nEach species of methylotrophic bacteria has a single dominant assimilation pathway. The three characterized pathways for carbon assimilation are the ribulose monophosphate (RuMP) and serine pathways of formaldehyde assimilation as well as the ribulose bisphosphate (RuBP) pathway of CO2 assimilation.\n\nUnlike the other assimilatory pathways, bacteria using the RuBP pathway derive all of their organic carbon from <chem>CO2</chem> assimilation. This pathway was first elucidated in photosynthetic autotrophs and is better known as the Calvin Cycle. Shortly thereafter, methylotrophic bacteria who could grow on reduced <chem>C1</chem> compounds were found using this pathway.\n\nFirst, 3 molecules of ribulose 5-phosphate are phosphorylated to ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP). The enzyme ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase (RuBisCO) carboxylates these RuBP molecules which produces 6 molecules of 3-phosphoglycerate (PGA). The enzyme phosphoglycerate kinase phosphorylates PGA into 1,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPGA). Reduction of 6 DPGA by the enzyme glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase generates 6 molecules of the <chem>C3</chem> compound glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (GAP). One GAP molecule is diverted towards biomass while the other 5 molecules regenerate the 3 molecules of ribulose 5-phosphate.\n\nA new pathway was suspected when RuBisCO was not found in the methanotroph \"Methylmonas methanica\". Through radio-labelling experiments, it was shown that \"M. methanica\" used the Ribulose monophate (RuMP) pathway. This has led researchers to propose that the RuMP cycle may have preceded the RuBP cycle.\n\nLike the RuBP cycle, this cycle begins with 3 molecules of ribulose-5-phosphate. However, instead of phosphorylating ribulose-5-phosphate, 3 molecules of formaldehyde form a C-C bond through an aldol condensation, producing 3 <chem>C6</chem> molecules of 3-hexulose 6-phosphate (hexulose phosphate). One of these molecules of hexulose phosphate is converted into GAP and either pyruvate or dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP). The pyruvate or DHAP is used towards biomass while the other 2 hexulose phosphate molecules and the molecule of GAP are used to regenerate the 3 molecules of ribulose-5-phosphate.\n\nUnlike the other assimilatory pathways, the serine cycle uses carboxylic acids and amino acids as intermediates instead of carbohydrates. First, 2 molecules of formaldehyde are added to 2 molecules of the amino acid glycine. This produces two molecules of the amino acid serine, the key intermediate of this pathway. These serine molecules eventually produce 2 molecules of 2-phosphoglycerate, with one <chem>C3</chem> molecule going towards biomass and the other being used to regenerate glycine. Notably, the regeneration of glycine requires a molecule of <chem>CO2</chem> as well, therefore the Serine pathway also differs from the other 3 pathways by its requirement of both formaldehyde and <chem>CO2</chem>.\n\nMethylotrophic yeast metabolism differs from bacteria primarily on the basis of the enzymes used and the carbon assimilation pathway. Unlike bacteria which use bacterial MDH, methylotrophic yeasts oxidize methanol in their peroxisomes with a non-specific alcohol oxidase. This produces formaldehyde as well as hydrogen peroxide. Compartmentalization of this reaction in peroxisomes likely sequesters the hydrogen peroxide produced. Catalase is produced in the peroxisomes to deal with this harmful by-product.\n\nThe dihydroxyacetone (DHA) pathway, also known as the xylulose monophosphate (XuMP) pathway, is found exclusively in yeast. This pathway assimilates three molecules of formaldehyde into 1 molecule of DHAP using 3 molecules of xylulose 5-phosphate as the key intermediate.\n\nDHA synthase acts as a transferase (transketolase) to transfer part of xylulose 5-phosphate to DHA. Then these 3 molecules of DHA are phosphorylated to DHAP by triokinase. Like the other cycles, 3 <chem>C3</chem> molecules are produced with 1 molecule being directed for use as cell material. The other 2 molecules are used to regenerate xylulose 5-phosphate.\n\nAs key players in the carbon cycle, methylotrophs work to reduce global warming primarily through the uptake of methane and other greenhouse gases. In aqueous environments, methanogenic bacteria produce 40-50% of the world's methane. Symbiosis between methanogens and methanotrophic bacteria greatly decreases the amount of methane released into the atmosphere.\n\nThe use of methylotrophs in the agricultural sector is another way in which they can potentially impact the environment. Traditional chemical fertilizers supply nutrients not readily available from soil but have effects such as decreased crop yield, poor soil quality and plant diseases. They are also environmentally costly to produce. Methylotrophs have high potential as alternative biofertilizers and bioinoculants due to their ability form mutualistic relationships with several plant species. Methylotrophs provide plants with nutrients such as soluble phosphorus and fixed nitrogen and also play a role in the uptake of said nutrients. Additionally, they can help plants respond to environmental stressors through the production of phytohormones. Methylotrophic growth also inhibits the growth of harmful plant pathogens and induces systemic resistance. Methylotrophic biofertilizers used either alone or together with chemical fertilizers have been shown to increase both crop yield and quality without loss of nutrients.\n"}
{"id": "1677856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1677856", "title": "Morfydd Llwyn Owen", "text": "Morfydd Llwyn Owen\n\nMorfydd Llwyn Owen (1 October 1891 – 7 September 1918) was a Welsh composer, pianist and mezzo-soprano. A prolific composer, as well as a member of influential intellectual circles, she died shortly before her 27th birthday.\n\nOwen was born in Treforest, Wales on 1 October 1891 to William Owen and his wife, Sara Jane (nee Jones). Her parents were both amateur musicians who ran a drapery business. She was a musical child, showing great talent at an early age and received piano lessons early on. While in her teens she appeared as a soloist in a performance of the Grieg Piano Concerto. At 16 she began to study piano and composition with Dr David Evans in Cardiff and had her first published work, a hymn tune entitled \"Morfydd\", produced in 1909.\n\nAfter two years of study with Evans, Owen won a scholarship to study at the University College in Cardiff and was formally admitted into the composition class. Many of her works were performed in student recitals at Cardiff, and she graduated in 1912. The same year, she was admitted to the Gorsedd of the Bards at the Wrexham National Eisteddfod under the name Morfydd Llwyn Owen, honouring the placename of her father's Montgomeryshire home by adopting 'Llwyn' as her middle name.\n\nOwen's parents were reluctant for her to continue her studies in London, but were persuaded to allow this partly by the intervention of the Liberal politician Eliot Crawshay-Williams. Owen and her father had jointly set Crawshay-Williams' poem \"Lullaby at Sunset\" to music, and her father wrote to him requesting permission for this to be published. Owen took her BA in music in July 1912 and was accepted by the Royal Academy of Music on the Goring Thomas scholarship, which she held for four years.\n\nShe took up her place at the Royal Academy in September 1912 where her principal study was composition, with piano and singing as second studies. She received individual composition lessons with Frederick Corder, who taught several other notable British composers. She was a very successful student and won two prizes in her first year: the Charles Lucas medal for composition, for her \"Nocturne in D major\", and the Oliveria Prescott prize for general excellence. She continued to accumulate awards during her time at the Royal Academy where her works – songs, part-songs and piano pieces including a sonata, pieces for violin and piano, trio for violin, cello and piano – were performed.\n\nWhile she was in London, Owen formed two separate circles of friends. The first of these centred on the Charing Cross Welsh Presbyterian Chapel, which was a central gathering point for many Welsh people living in London. Owen developed an especially close friendship with Lady Ruth Lewis, the wife of Sir John Herbert Lewis, the Liberal MP for Flintshire. Lady Lewis was an important figure in the Welsh Folk-Song Society of London and invited Owen to become involved with the organization. Owen obliged and transcribed, as well as wrote accompaniments to, many pieces for collections of Welsh Folk Songs. She provided musical examples to illustrate Lady Lewis's lectures on folk song and in 1914 they collaborated in publishing \"Folk-Songs Collected in Flintshire and the Vale of Clwyd\". Owen knew David Lloyd George, then Secretary of State for War, who commissioned a work and chose her as the soprano soloist at the Cymanfa Ganu of the National Eisteddfod in Aberystwyth in 1916.\n\nOwen's other social circle was centred on Hampstead, where she shared a flat with her friend Elizabeth Lloyd. Hampsted was the centre of the London literary set, and Owen associated with several of its members, including the writers D. H. Lawrence and Ezra Pound. She also was friends with several Russian émigrés, including Prince Felix Yusupov, who had been involved in the assassination of Rasputin, and Alexis Chodak-Gregory, who proposed marriage. It was through her Russian friendships, as well as influence of her work with Lady Lewis, that Owen developed a fascination with Russian folk song. In 1915 she asked for, and received, a fellowship from the University of Wales to visit Saint Petersburg to study the folk music of Russia, Norway and Finland. However, the First World War made overseas travel impossible.\n\nHaving developed her voice as a mezzo-soprano, in 1913 she sang four of her own songs in a concert at London's Bechstein Hall: \"Chanson de Fortunio\"; \"Song from a Persian Village\", \"Suo Gân\" and \"The Year's at the Spring\". The same year her \"Nocturne in D major\" was performed at the Queen's Hall, and she won the first prize for singing at a regional eisteddfod in Swansea. Her professional debut as a singer was in January 1917 at the Aeolian Hall in London. In July 1917 she premiered a performance of Harry Farjeon's song cycle \"A Lute of Jade\" at the Birkenhead National Eisteddfod. Later in the year her setting of the song \"For Jeanne's Sake\" was performed at the Henry Wood Promenade Concerts.\n\nOwen was made an sub-professor at the Royal Academy of Music and in 1918 she was honoured with the Academy's Associate diploma, the ARAM.\n\nTowards the end of 1916 Owen was introduced to the London Welsh psychoanalyst Ernest Jones and after a brief courtship they married at Marylebone Register Office on 6 February 1917. This came as shock to her circle of friends, few of whom were aware the ceremony was taking place. Her parents were unable to attend after Jones brought forward the ceremony by a day. As the leading exponent in Britain of Freud's ideas Jones was a highly controversial figure and an avowed atheist. He anticipated his wife would gradually relinquish the \"simple-minded\" beliefs of her religious faith. In response to the evident tensions in the marriage around this issue, Jones agreed to a marriage ceremony at the Charing Cross Welsh Presbyterian Chapel, which took place the following September with Owen's family and friends present. There were also tensions in the marriage around the role Jones expected his wife to take in supporting his busy professional and social life, inevitably at the expense of her career as a musician and output as a composer.\n\nIn the summer of 1918 the couple were holidaying in South Wales, staying at the home of Jones's father at Oystermouth near Swansea, when Owen developed an acute appendicitis. Jones hoped his brother-in-law, the eminent surgeon Wilfred Trotter, would be able to travel to Swansea in time to operate but Trotter advised urgent surgical intervention was needed and the operation was conducted at the family home by William Frederick Brook, a leading South Wales surgeon. In his autobiography Jones gives an account of the days leading to her death on 7 September: \n\nOn the basis of Jones's reference to \"the best personal news\" in his correspondence with Freud, Jones's biographer, Brenda Maddox, suggests that the reason that there was no subsequent autopsy was that Owen was pregnant and to have revealed this to her father and friends would have caused them further distress.\n\nOwen was buried on 11 September in Oystermouth Cemetery, on the outskirts of Swansea, where her gravestone bears the inscription, chosen by Jones from Goethe's \"Faust\": \"Das Unbeschreibliche, hier ist's getan\".\n\nIn 1924 Jones arranged, with the assistance of Frederick Corder, the publication of a four-volume memorial edition of selections of her orchestral and instrumental work and of her compositions for voice and piano. Thanking Jones for the copy he sent her, her close friend Elizabeth Lloyd wrote, \"Each page brought fresh memories of our lost darling\". Centenary editions of some of her songs and piano pieces were published in Cardiff in 1991.\n\nThough Owen only composed seriously for just over 10 years, she left a legacy of some 250 scores. These include pieces for chamber ensemble, piano, mixed choir and tone poems for orchestra. However, it is her compositions for voice and piano that are regarded as her most important and mature contributions. Her most well known include \"Slumber Song of the Madonna\", \"To our Lady of Sorrows\", \"Suo Gân\", and her masterpiece in Welsh, \"Gweddi y Pechadur\". There were also some 22 hymn tunes and several anthems.\n\nIn the centenary year of her death the 2018 Proms season programmed the BBC National Orchestra of Wales and its Principal Conductor Thomas Søndergård performing the \"Nocturne in D major for full orchestra\" of 1913.\n\nWorks from the 1924 memorial edition of Owen's work, with authors' names in brackets.\n\n\nThis recording of songs and piano works includes the \"Four Flower Songs\", \"Gweddi y Pechadur\" (The Sinner's Prayer), \"Branwen\" (the original piano sketch for the 1916 piece for strings \"Threnody for the Passing of Branwen\"), the \"Piano Sonata in E minor\" (1910) and the \"Rhapsody in C minor\" (1914)\n\nSome of her many works have been recorded in compilations of Welsh songs and music. These include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25609090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25609090", "title": "Murder of Keith William Allan", "text": "Murder of Keith William Allan\n\nKeith William Allan (1946 – c. 28 May 2000) was an Australian solicitor, murdered in a contract killing. He was educated at Northcote High School and the University of Melbourne, where he completed the degree Bachelor of Laws. He practiced as a solicitor at Avondale Heights, a western suburb of Melbourne located in the City of Moonee Valley. He was a cousin of Jacinta Allan, a Minister in the Victorian state governments of Steve Bracks, John Brumby and Daniel Andrews. He was also a cousin of former test cricketer Graham Yallop and former Australian rules footballers Ken Turner (Collingwood), Jamie Turner (Collingwood) and Max Oppy (Richmond).\n\nThree men—Sudo Cavkic, a Bosnian Australian; Costas Athanasi, a Greek-Cypriot Australian; and Julian Michael Clarke, also of Australian nationality—were tried and convicted for his murder after three trials before the Supreme Court of Victoria. Frank De Stefano, a former gambling associate of Clarke, gave evidence at each of the three trials, as did Jack Collins, Australian Football great and personal friend of Allan. The case received considerable media coverage, particularly by the Geelong Advertiser, as Clarke was a former Geelong resident. This case is an example of a murder conviction without a body; the whereabouts of Allan's corpse remain unknown.\n\nThe Allan murder was a contract killing. The architect of his murder was Clarke, who was stealing substantial sums of money from the solicitor trust account of his employer Allan. The money stolen was largely gambled at Crown Casino, where Clarke was a devotee of the high roller Mahogany Room. Clarke gambled with former Geelong Mayor Frank De Stefano, whom he allowed to launder considerable money through the trust account, without Allan's knowledge.\n\nThe plan was for Allan to be executed, his body to be disposed of, and for him to be regarded as a missing person. Clarke paid Athanasi, an active drug dealer, about $93,000 to organise the murder. Athanasi then engaged his long-time friend Cavkic to actually carry it out. The plan almost succeeded but for two alert policemen, Senior Constables Michael Strongman and Travis McCarthy, who apprehended Cavkic driving Allan's car, a blue Mercedes Benz, in a dead end street at Altona Meadows, a western suburb of Melbourne. \n\nThe case is significant in Australian law in that it decided that beyond reasonable doubt should not be expressed as a percentage. In 2005 The Victorian Court of Appeal annulled the guilty verdict of the first trial in 2004 and ordered a retrial on the ground that the trial judge had failed to answer a question from a member of the jury asking if the term reasonable doubt could be expressed as a percentage. \n\nThe trial judge followed the judgment in \"Green v R\", that judges should not explain to juries the meaning of reasonable doubt, that they should explain only in terms that beyond reasonable doubt is the highest standard of proof known to the law, or that further definition would be neither useful nor proper.\n\nThe Court of Appeal, in a judgment by Justices Vincent, Charles and Osborn, held that the trial judge should have explained to the jury that reasonable doubt was not a percentage, unlike the position in a civil rather than a criminal case where the standard of proof, the balance of probabilities, could be expressed as a percentage of greater than 51:49. \n\nIn 2006, the second trial resulted in a hung jury. In 2007, all three were again found guilty, and were sentenced by the trial judge, Justice Coldrey, to sentences that ranged from nineteen years to twenty three and a half years.\n\nThe Court of Appeal dismissed a further appeal in March 2009. Justices Virginia Bell and Susan Crennan of the High Court of Australia refused an application seeking special leave to appeal on 11 December 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "5364807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5364807", "title": "Mymarommatidae", "text": "Mymarommatidae\n\nThe Mymarommatidae are a very small family of microscopic hymenopteran insects. Only about half of the known species are living taxa (the others are fossils), but they are known from all parts of the world. Undoubtedly, many more await discovery, as they are easily overlooked and difficult to study due to their extremely small size (most have an overall length of around 0.3 mm).\n\nVirtually nothing is known about the biology of these insects, but because of their size, and simple ovipositors, entomologists assume they are idiobiont parasitoids on the eggs of various insects. They were originally treated as an aberrant subfamily of the chalcidoid family Mymaridae but because of morphological differences, are now usually considered in their own superfamily, Mymarommatoidea, and their similarity to Mymaridae is thought to be a result of convergent evolution.\n\nAs taxonomists have examined this group more closely, they have become less certain about which other group of wasps represents the nearest living relatives of the Mymarommatidae. In recent years, some have claimed the nearest relatives are the extinct family Serphitidae, and therefore claim the Mymarommatidae are essentially \"living fossils\", the sole surviving lineage of an otherwise extinct superfamily Serphitoidea. It remains to be seen whether this change in classification will be accepted, but it has some significant support.\n\n"}
{"id": "8476605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8476605", "title": "Ningyo", "text": "Ningyo\n\nAnciently, it was described with a monkey’s mouth with small teeth like a fish’s, shining golden scales, and a quiet voice like a skylark or a flute. Its flesh is pleasant-tasting, and anyone who eats it will attain remarkable longevity. However, catching a \"ningyo\" was believed to bring storms and misfortune, so fishermen who caught these creatures were said to throw them back into the sea. A \"ningyo\" washed onto the beach was an omen of war or calamity.\n\nOne of the most famous folk stories concerning \"ningyo\" is called or Happyaku Bikuni. The story tells how a fisherman who lived in Wakasa Province once caught an unusual fish. In all his years fishing, he had never seen anything like it, so he invited his friends over to sample its meat. \n\nOne of the guests, however, peeked into the kitchen, noticed that the head of this fish had a human face, and warned the others not to eat it. So when the fisherman finished cooking and offered his guests the \"ningyo's\" grilled flesh, they secretly wrapped it in paper and hid it on their persons so that it could be discarded on the way home. \n\nBut one man, drunk on \"sake\", forgot to throw the strange fish away. This man had a little daughter, who demanded a present when her father arrived home, and he carelessly gave her the fish. Coming to his senses, the father tried to stop her from eating it, fearing she would be poisoned, but he was too late and she finished it all. But as nothing particularly bad seemed to happen to the girl afterwards, the man did not worry about it for long.\n\nYears passed, and the girl grew up and was married. But after that she did not age any more; she kept the same youthful appearance while her husband grew old and died. After many years of perpetual youth and being widowed again and again, the woman became a nun and wandered through various countries. Finally she returned to her hometown in Wakasa, where she ended her life at an age of 800 years.\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "24765699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24765699", "title": "Oude Rode Ogen", "text": "Oude Rode Ogen\n\nOude Rode Ogen or Old Red Eyes, otherwise known as The Beast of Flanders, is a Dutch bogeyman, ghost or monster whose tales and sightings began after a true series of events.\n\nThe legend of Oude Rode Ogen began in the Flanders region of Belgium in the late 17th century after reports of children who went missing and were believed to be victims of a cannibalistic shape shifter. Witnesses claimed to have seen a large naked black man running away after trying to steal a young girl from her bed. He was shot at and seen to change into a large black dog. A homeless black man was soon found living near Nekkerspoel and without trial was lynched and skinned alive. The skin is said to be buried in the basement of St. Rumbold's Cathedral in Mechelen.\n\nFrom the early 18th century until present, a ghostly dark figure with fiery red eyes has been seen in Mechelen and surrounding areas. It is said that he seeks his skin to become whole again as the demonic figure he once was. During the 20th century the ghostly being became known as The Nikker (De Nekker or The Nigger), as part of a story told to children who stayed up past their bedtime that they'd be eaten alive if they didn't go to sleep.\n\nOude Rode Ogen was said to have been a black man who changed into a large black dog with fiery red eyes. In more recent times he has taken the form of a dark shadow figure with red eyes whose late evening appearance is usually followed by a menacing dog's growl. Sightings of De Nekker were believed to have left people deaf, mute and blind according to the book \"Beast of Flanders\" by Vincent Menten.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1083183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1083183", "title": "Pokémon Diamond and Pearl", "text": "Pokémon Diamond and Pearl\n\nLike previous Pokémon games, \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" chronicle the adventures of a young Pokémon trainer as he/she trains and battles Pokémon while also thwarting the schemes of a criminal organization. The games add many new features, such as Internet play over the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection and changes to battle mechanics and Pokémon Contests, along with addition of 107 new Pokémon. The games are independent of each other but feature largely the same plot and while both can be played separately, it is necessary to trade between them in order to complete the games' Pokédexes.\n\nDevelopment of \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" was announced at a Nintendo Press conference in the fourth calendar quarter of 2004. The games were designed with features of the DS. It was forecasted to be released in Japan in 2005, but was shipped in 2006. In promotion of the games, Nintendo sold a limited-edition Nintendo DS Lite in Japan, and held a release party celebrating their North American release.\n\nThe games received generally favorable reviews. Most critics praised the addition of Wi-Fi features and felt that the gameplay, though it had not received much updating from previous games, was still engaging. Reviewers were divided on the graphics, however, and the audio was criticized as being primitive. The games enjoyed more commercial success than their Game Boy Advance predecessors: with around 18 million units sold worldwide, \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" have sold over 2 million more units than \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" and almost 6 million more units than \"FireRed\" and \"LeafGreen\", while outselling their successors, \"Black\" and \"White\", by over 2 million copies.\n\n\"Pokémon Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" are role-playing games with adventure elements. The basic mechanics of the games are largely the same as their predecessors. As with all \"Pokémon\" games for handheld consoles, gameplay is in third-person overhead perspective, and consists of three basic screens: a field map, in which the player navigates the main character; a battle screen; and the menu, in which the player configures his or her party, items, or gameplay settings. The player begins the game with no Pokémon or Poké Balls, but is given the choice of three Pokémon as a part of the story line. Once Pokéballs are obtained, the player can capture more Pokémon using Pokéballs. The player can also use his/her Pokémon to do damage to the other Pokémon. Whenever the player encounters a wild Pokémon or is challenged by a trainer to a battle, the screen switches to a turn-based battle screen where the Pokémon fight. During battle, the player may fight, use an item, switch the active Pokémon, or flee (the last not an option in battles against trainers). All Pokémon have hit points (HP); whenever a Pokémon's HP is reduced to zero, it faints and cannot battle unless revived at a Pokémon center or with an item. If the player's Pokémon defeats the opposing Pokémon (causes it to faint), it receives experience points. After accumulating enough experience points, it can level up; most Pokémon evolve into a new species of Pokémon whenever they reach a certain level. Pokémon's stats also increase every time it levels up, and they will also learn new moves as well. If the player cancels an evolution the Pokémon will learn new moves faster.\n\nApart from battling, capturing Pokémon is the most important element of \"Pokémon\" gameplay. Although other trainers' Pokémon cannot be captured, the player can use different kinds of Poké Balls on a wild Pokémon during battle. A successful capture adds the Pokémon to the player's active party or stores it if the player already has the maximum of six Pokémon. Factors in the success rate of capture include the HP of the target Pokémon and the strength of the Poké Ball used; the lower the target's HP and the stronger the Poké Ball, the higher the success rate of capture is. Also, inflicting certain status effects such as sleep or paralysis adds a multiplier to the capture rate, making it easier to capture wild Pokémon. Each species has a capture rate of its own as well.\n\nAs with other generations of Pokémon games, \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" retained the basic gameplay of their predecessors while introducing additional new features. Increased from three times of day in \"Gold\" and \"Silver\", there are five time periods in \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\": morning, day, afternoon, evening, and night. \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" introduced several changes to battle mechanics. In previous generations, Pokémon moves were classified as \"physical\" or \"special\" based on their type; for example, all Fire-type moves were special and all Ground-type moves were physical. In \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\", however, moves are categorized into three groups. Attacks that make physical contact with the opponent are \"physical\", attacks that do not make physical contact are \"special\", and moves that do not deal damage directly are classified as \"status\".\n\nSome of the games' new features capitalize on the Nintendo DS's features. The , a simulated smartwatch, uses the DS's bottom screen and hosts applications including a clock, a calculator, a map, a counter, and a drawing pad. These applications are obtained throughout the game. Beneath Sinnoh's surface is the , a large area used for wireless multiplayer gaming; in it, players can create and decorate secret bases (first featured in \"Pokémon Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\") and participate in minigames. The items mined in the Underground can then be transferred into the player's bag in the main game.\"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" also employ support for the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection (discontinued), allowing players to communicate through voice chat, trade, and battle online. The main system for trade is the Global Trade Station (which for Pokemon art director Ken Sugimori was the new feature he was most pleased with), that allows players to trade with people around the world. Players can search for any Pokémon that they have seen in the game and can offer their own; if another player is offering the requested Pokémon and is looking for the offered Pokémon, the trade occurs immediately. (The trade does not have to be instant; an offer can be left for other players to browse and complete, even while the player is offline.) Certain species of Pokémon traded internationally will have a Pokédex entry in the language of the game it originated from.\n\n\"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\"'s Pokémon Contests (events in which the player's Pokémon compete in a show to win ribbons) consist of three stages, two more than the Contests of the Game Boy Advance games. In the Visual Competition stage, players use the Nintendo DS's touchscreen to place accessories on their Pokémon to boost a particular trait, such as \"Cool\" or \"Cute\", and earn points. In the Dance Competition stage, the player must tap buttons on the touchscreen in rhythm with the music. The final stage, Acting Competition, is similar to Pokémon Contests of the Game Boy Advance games; Pokémon use their moves to appeal to the judges and crowd. Like Pokéblocks in the third-generation games, baked goods called Poffins can be made from berries and fed to Pokémon in order to boost a particular trait, and therefore, the likelihood of success in a relevant Contest.\n\nIn addition to compatibility with each other, \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" offer compatibility with the Game Boy Advance \"Pokémon\" RPGs, \"Pokémon Ranger\", and \"Pokémon Battle Revolution\". After earning the National Pokédex in \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\", the player can \"Migrate\" Pokémon from the Game Boy Advance games to \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" by inserting a Game Boy Advance cartridge into the Game Boy Advance cartridge slot of the Nintendo DS while \"Diamond\" or \"Pearl\" is in the DS slot. After six Pokémon are uploaded from the cartridge, they are sent to the Pal Park, an area where the player can capture the transferred Pokémon. Pokémon uploads are restricted to six every twenty-four hours per Game Boy Advance cartridge, and the player must capture the uploaded Pokémon before performing another transfer. Pokémon transferred to \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" this way cannot be sent back to a Game Boy Advance cartridge. After completing a special mission in \"Pokémon Ranger\", the player will be able to send a Manaphy egg or Riolu from \"Ranger\" to \"Diamond\" or \"Pearl\". Finally, players can wirelessly upload Pokémon from \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" to the Wii games \"Pokémon Battle Revolution\" and \"My Pokémon Ranch\". DS players can also connect to the Internet and \"battle\" with other players around the world. They can use \"DS Wireless\" to play with people within approximately 5 m. They can also play underground (for example, steal flags, find spheres and set traps).\n\n\"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" are set in the fictional region of \"Sinnoh\", an island based on the Japanese island of Hokkaidō. Sinnoh is probably not directly connected to any other region in the Pokémon universe, much like Hoenn. It is characterized by large, snow-covered mountains (Mt. Coronet, a part of a mountain range, divides Sinnoh in half). In this game, the starters are the grass-type Turtwig, the fire-type Chimchar, and the water-type Piplup. Turtwig can evolve into Grotle and then into Torterra, Chimchar can evolve into Monferno and then into Infernape, and Piplup can evolve into Prinplup and then into Empoleon. Unlike other regions, Sinnoh has a \"northern\" feel to it because it is the only region with snow-covered routes. Sinnoh is also characterized by its waterways; it has three main lakes (Verity, Acuity, and Valor) that form a triangle. Unlike the Hoenn region, however, which is mostly water routes, only 30 percent of Sinnoh's landscape comprises waterways. Underneath Sinnoh's surface is the Sinnoh Underground, which is a large maze of caves and tunnels.\n\nThe games chronicle the adventures of a new Pokémon trainer who strives to become the Pokémon League Champion by collecting and training Pokémon. Like most games in the series, \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" feature eight Pokémon gyms led by Gym Leaders, professional trainers whose expertise lies in a particular Pokémon type. Gym Leaders (Roark, Gardenia, Maylene, Crasher Wake, Fantina, Byron, Candice, and Volkner) serve as bosses and reward skilled trainers with Gym Badges, key to the advancement of the plot. As all core games, the protagonist must also thwart the schemes of a crime syndicate (and here, it is Team Galactic), who plans to use Pokémon to create a new universe just for themselves, while destroying the current one.\n\nLike all other Pokémon RPGs, \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" begin in the protagonist's hometown. After viewing a television report about a media-conducted search for a Red Gyarados, which was spotted at a faraway lake (Johto's Lake of Rage), the protagonist and his or her best friend (named Barry by default) travel together to check the local lake for a Pokémon like it. They spot Professor Rowan, a Pokémon evolution researcher, and his assistant, the playable character not selected in the game: Lucas (boy) or Dawn (girl). After a short discussion, the professor and his assistant leave the lake, leaving a briefcase behind. When they are attacked by wild Starly, the protagonist and his or her rival examine the case. The player is then given a choice among the three Pokémon found in the briefcase (Turtwig, Chimchar, or Piplup) with which to battle the Starly. After defeating the Starly, Lucas or Dawn retrieves and returns the briefcase to the professor. Noticing that a bond has been forged between the young protagonist and his or her chosen Pokémon, Rowan offers it to him or her, asking that he or she embark on a journey and fill his or her Pokédex.\n\nThe protagonist encounters the antagonistic team, Team Galactic, early in the game, when he or she must save Professor Rowan from some of their thugs; however, their motives are unclear until later. The protagonist encounters the Team twice (when it takes over a wind farm and when it sets up a base in Eterna City) before it takes over Sinnoh's three lakes in an attempt to capture the Mirage Pokémon (Uxie, Azelf, and Mesprit). Shortly after the player earns his or her seventh Gym Badge, Team Galactic captures the Mirage Pokémon and imprisons them inside the science laboratory of the Team Galactic Headquarters Building, where its members extract crystals from the Pokémon to create the Red Chain, an object that can control the legendary Pokémon Palkia (in \"Pearl\") or Dialga (in \"Diamond\") (both in \"Pokémon Platinum\", though Giratina appears after this). After releasing the trio, the protagonist is able to access Spear Pillar, an ancient ruin atop Mt. Coronet, where the leader of Team Galactic summons Dialga or Palkia. The legendary Pokémon's powers begin to overwhelm Sinnoh, causing the newly free Uxie, Azelf, and Mesprit to attempt to stop it. The player then battles Palkia/Dialga; after defeating or capturing the Pokémon, Sinnoh returns to normal. After this, the player will continue, eventually battling the Sinnoh Region Pokémon League's Elite Four: Aaron, Bertha, Flint, and Lucian. After defeating all four members, the player will battle the Sinnoh League champion, a woman named Cynthia, who had appeared before in the game. If the protagonist beats Cynthia, he or she is the new Sinnoh League champion, beating the game. After the player beats the game, there is a new island to explore that is filled with other types of Pokémon. His or her old friend, who challenged him or her to battles multiple times before, will be waiting for him or her here. The old friend will challenge the player to another battle. On this island, there are also stores and a tournament center.\n\nWith \"Pokémon Dash\"'s release and the release date of the Nintendo DS, the development of \"Pokémon Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" was announced at a Nintendo Press conference in the fourth calendar quarter of 2004. Junichi Masuda at Game Freak developed the titles, saying it would \"become a new type of game that offers a number of new forms of play\" and that he was determined to create \"the ultimate [Pokémon] version\". Though \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" were expected to be released in Japan by 2005, Nintendo revealed that the developers were still working on aspects of the gameplay and that the games would not be released until 2006. The company said that \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" would be able to communicate with Pokémon games for the Game Boy Advance, allowing players to transfer their Pokémon to the new games. Nintendo also announced that the games would make full use of the Wi-Fi capabilities of the DS, allowing 16 players to communicate wirelessly at one time. Further information concerning the games was not released until mid 2006, when Nintendo President Satoru Iwata mentioned that connectivity with \"Pokémon Battle Revolution\" was also still in development; new features such as the Pokétch and time sensitivity were also mentioned.\n\nAccording to Pokémon co-creator Ryan Long, the games were designed with the DS's unique features in mind, such as the Wi-Fi capabilities and slot for Game Boy Advance cartridges. The command buttons in the battle screen are large and color-coded; according to Masuda, this feature would facilitate gameplay for players unable to read. Also, the touchscreen interface was designed to encourage players to use their fingers rather than the stylus to manipulate the screen. Though most of the graphics in \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" are 2D, some of the background elements are 3D. The decision to retain 2D graphics in \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" drew criticism; in response, Tsunekazu Ishihara said that \"we wanted to maintain the original idea of Pokémon being a game that you played on this big map\" and explained that physically, the games were in three dimensions but was designed to \"maintain the original feel of the game\". Responding to criticism over the use of Friend Codes in the games, Ishihara explained that it was a security measure taken to ensure that players would not be able to chat with strangers over the Wi-Fi connection. Nintendo released a statement detailing glitches found in Japanese releases of \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\". The glitches caused players to be stuck in an in-game wall or lose saved data. Nintendo has released patches to certain retailers in Japan to fix these glitches.\n\nThe games were released in Japan on September 28, 2006. To commemorate the release, Nintendo sold a limited-edition DS Lite in Japanese Pokémon Center stores and through the Pokémon fan club by mail. The consoles featured the games' mascots Dialga and Palkia painted in silver and gold respectively on a metallic black finish. On December 20, 2006, Nintendo of America announced that the North American release of the games was slated for April 22, 2007, and that those who pre-ordered their copies of the games would receive special DS styluses branded with some of the new Pokémon. Shortly before the games' North American release, The Pokémon Company presented a limited demo of the games for Nintendo's booth at the Game Developer's Conference. To celebrate the games' North American release, Nintendo held a release party at the Nintendo World Store in New York City's Rockefeller Plaza. Nintendo of Europe announced a release date of July 27, 2007, for the European Union, and Nintendo Australia announced a June 21 release date. A launch event was held in GAME stores at Hamleys to celebrate the European release of the games. The event, held on July 26, 2007, offered a chance to purchase the games one day before their official release date and featured an appearance by band McFly. To celebrate the Australian release of the games, Nintendo launched the nationwide Nintendo DS Connection Tour 07; each stop in the tour featured events such as Pokémon Trading Card Game competitions and Pokémon trivia games.\n\nThe success of the games revived the popularity of the Pokémon brand. George Harrison, then Nintendo of America's vice president of marketing, noted that the games were attracting \"players of all ages\"—from younger children to \"grown men and women\" and older players who \"played the original Pokémon games\". As a result, Pokémon USA opened a temporary boutique in the Times Square Toys \"R\" Us that sold exclusively Pokémon licensed merchandise including Jakks Pacific-created action figures, plush toys, backpacks, and clothing. Ronald Boire, president of Toys \"R\" Us, stated that the store planned to open temporary boutiques in all 585 of its domestic locations. Other Pokémon merchandise includes a BattleDome Playset and a talking Pokédex. Additionally, Pokémon USA partnered with Burger King in 2008 to launch a promotional campaign in which Burger King included exclusive Pokémon trading cards and accessories with Kids Meals. The promotion lasted from July 7 to August 3 in the United States and continued through the fall internationally.\n\n\"Nintendo DS Pokémon Diamond & Pearl Super Music Collection\" is a two-disc soundtrack featuring music scored by Hitomi Sato and Junichi Masuda under the supervision of Go Ichinose, with a few other fanfares composed by Morikazu Aoki. The album, released in Japan on December 22, 2006, peaked at #253 on Japan's Oricon charts and charted for one week.\n\n\"Pokémon Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" garnered slightly higher ratings than \"FireRed\" and \"LeafGreen\" and \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\". The Japanese version of the games have an 85 out of 100 on Metacritic and an 85% (\"generally favorable reviews\") on GameRankings. The highest score given was a 92 by UK \"Official Nintendo Magazine\", while the lowest was a 67 by Game Revolution. Ryan Davis of GameSpot gave the games an 8.5/10 (\"Great\") and called the games \"the most well-rounded Pokémon games to date.\" IGN and GameZone also gave the games an 8.5/10. The UK \"Official Nintendo Magazine\" gave the games 92%, and GameSpy gave them a 4.5/5. The games received slightly lower reviews from ComputerAndVideoGames.com than \"Ruby\"/\"Sapphire\" had, but earned an \"A-\" grade from 1UP.com, an improvement from \"Ruby\"/\"Sapphire\"'s \"B-\".\n\nMost reviewers felt that though the gameplay and storyline had not changed much since the first games, \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" were still engaging. Ryan Davis of GameSpot said, \"[I]t's a little surprising how well the formula holds up in Diamond and Pearl, which is a testament to the strong fundamentals of the series as well as the quality of the execution.\" The games' Wi-Fi connectivity also earned largely positive reviews. 1UP.com called the addition of wireless connectivity the games' \"biggest improvements\". GameSpot and GameSpy both listed the addition of online play as one of the positive points of the games and called the system \"robust\" and \"probably the most significant new feature.\" ComputerAndVideoGames.com said of the Global Trade Center, \"Suddenly, Pokémon feels properly alive for the first time since playgrounds were abuzz with monsters in the late '90s – and you'll instantly forgive Game Freak their technical stubbornness the first time you switch on your DS and find the level 100 Munchlax you craved is on your cart.\"\n\nThe graphics generally received positive reviews. GameSpot praised the blend of 2D and 3D graphics, and GameZone said that the graphics were \"better than what I had originally imagined\" and that \"a Pokemon title hasn't ever looked this good on a handheld.\" GameSpy felt that the graphics, though simple, made the game \"a pleasure to explore\". ComputerAndVideoGames.com, however, said that \"the so-called '3D' isn't up to much: it's just a viewpoint shuffle, with DS's gutsy engine taking a nice long nap between the odd hypnotic windfarm or fog effect.\" The audio was not so well-received: IGN felt that the cries made by the Pokémon \"still screech with the flair of the original Game Boy\" and that the music, while \"more advanced\", was \"not much beyond [Game Boy Advance] quality\". GameZone also felt that the sounds had not been updated, saying \"This [the audio] is the only area that hasn't taken one step forward. It remains stagnant and doesn't show any progression over the GBA titles\". GameSpot cited the games' \"recycled\" sounds as one of the negative points.\n\nFirst released in Japan in 2006, \"Pokémon Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" have the most successful launch week of games in the \"Pokémon\" series, and the best launch week for any Nintendo DS game for the country alone. Within forty-six days, the games sold three million units, becoming the fastest DS games to do so; by the end of the year, the number increased to five million units in just under three months, making \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" the best-selling Pokémon games in Japan. In the United States, pre-orders for \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" passed 533,000, almost twice the pre-sale numbers for \"FireRed\" and \"LeafGreen\". Within five days of release, the games sold around one million copies and were the fastest-selling Pokémon games ever until the release of \"Pokémon Platinum\". The games were the seventh-best-selling video games of 2007, with around 4.27 million units sold in the United States; in early 2009 sales passed 5.3 million units. As of September 30, 2017, \"Pokémon Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" combined have sold 17.67 million copies worldwide, making their sales totals around one million higher than those of \"Ruby\"/\"Sapphire\" and around six million higher than those of \"FireRed\"/\"LeafGreen\". The games also boosted sales of hardware in the United States, spurring the sales of 471,000 DS units and causing the sales of video games in April 2007 to rise 20% from April 2006. In Europe, the games sold around 1.6 million units within just seven weeks of their release and topped the charts in Spain, Germany, and the United Kingdom. Additionally, there have been more than 10 million Pokémon trades via Wi-Fi. At G4's G-phoria 2007, the games won \"Best Handheld Game\", and were nominated for \"Best RPG\". In 2008 \"Pokémon Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" were nominated for the British Academy of Film and Television Arts Children's Kids Vote Award. In IGN's Best of 2007 Awards, \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" were named the best online multiplayer games and the best RPG games. In the 2006 Famitsu Game Awards, \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" won the Best Hit award and tied with \"Final Fantasy XII\" for the Game of the Year award.\n\n is an enhanced version of \"Pokémon Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" developed by Game Freak and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo DS handheld game console. It was released on September 13, 2008 in Japan, March 22, 2009 in North America, May 14, 2009 in Australia, and May 22, 2009 in Europe. The developers made \"Platinum\" with the intent of making it a stronger version of \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\", which they described as the \"ultimate\" Pokémon titles.\n\n\"Pokémon Platinum\" has been met with generally positive reception, holding aggregate scores of 84 and 83.14% at Metacritic and GameRankings respectively. It was praised for the additions and changes made to \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" by publications such as IGN, \"Nintendo Power\", and \"GamePro\", though it has been criticized for being too similar to them. IGN included it as the ninth best Nintendo DS game ever made, as well as nominating it as one of the best DS role-playing games of 2009. It was the fastest-selling game in Japan at the time, selling 7.06 million copies by May 7, 2010.\n\n is the first Wii incarnation of the \"Pokémon\" video game franchise. It is also the first Wii game to use the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection in North America and Japan and the first Wii game to wirelessly interact with the Nintendo DS handheld.\n\n is a Wii game developed by Ambrella and released via the WiiWare download service. First released on March 25, 2008, in Japan, it was later made available in North America on June 9, 2008, and in Europe on July 4, 2008, for 1000 Wii Points. Like the GameCube's \"\", \"Ranch\" allows players to store and arrange Pokémon from \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\". Pokémon transferred from those games are rendered in 3D and can interact with the player's Miis. Although given positive reviews by parents and children, it was received very poorly by critics, who criticized it for its graphics, one responding \"I can't even tell what these things are! I bet the children can't either!\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "261596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=261596", "title": "Prana", "text": "Prana\n\nIn Hindu philosophy including yoga, Indian medicine and Indian martial arts, prana (, ; the Sanskrit word for \"life force\" or \"vital principle\" constructed from \"pra\" meaning movement and \"an\" meaning constant) permeates reality on all levels including in inanimate objects. In Hindu literature, prana is sometimes described as originating from the Sun and connecting the elements. Prana is invoked and described in the Vedas and Upanishads.\n\nFive types of prana, collectively known as the five \"vāyus,\" are referred to in Hindu texts. Ayurveda, tantra and Tibetan medicine all describe \"praṇā vāyu\" as the basic vāyu from which the other vāyus arise.\n\nThe ancient concept of prana is described in many Hindu texts, including Upanishads and Vedas. One of the earliest references to prana is from the 3,000-year-old \"Chandogya Upanishad\", but many other Upanishads use the concept, including the Katha, Mundaka and Prasna Upanishads. The concept is elaborated upon in great detail in the practices and literature of haṭha yoga, tantra, and Ayurveda.\n\nPrana is typically divided into constituent parts, particularly when concerned with the human body. While not all early sources agree on the names or number of these divisions, the most common list from the Mahabharata, the Upanishads, Ayurvedic and Yogic sources includes five classifications, often subdivided. This list includes Prana (inward moving energy), apana (outward moving energy), vyana (circulation of energy), udana (energy of the head and throat), and samana (digestion and assimilation). Early mention of specific pranas often emphasized prāṇa, apāna and vyāna as \"the three breaths\". This can be seen in the proto-yogic traditions of the Vratyas among others. Texts like the Vaikānasasmārta utilized the five pranas as an internalization of the five sacrificial fires of a panchagni homa ceremony.\n\nAtharva veda mentions about Prana. ‘When they had been watered by Prana, the plants spake in concert: 'thou hast, forsooth, prolonged our life, thou hast made us all fragrant.' (Chapter 11 verse 4 – 6)’. ‘The holy (âtharvana) plants, the magic (ângirasa) plants, the divine plants, and those produced by men, spring forth, when thou, O Prâna, quickenest them (Chapter 11, verse 4 – 16). ‘When Prâna has watered the great earth with rain, then the plants spring forth, and also every sort of herb (Chapter 11 verse 4 – 17). ‘O Prâna, be not turned away from me, thou shall not be other than myself! As the embryo of the waters (fire), thee, O Prâna, do bind to me, that I may live.’ (Chapter 11, verse 4).\n\nSimilar concepts exist in various cultures, including the Greek pneuma, the Chinese qi, the Polynesian mana, the Amerindian orenda, the German od, and the Hebrew ruah. Prana is also referred to as \"bioplasmic energy\", \"subtle energy\", or \"life force\".\n\nOne way of categorizing prana is by means of vāyus. \"Vāyu\" means \"wind\" or \"air\" in Sanskrit, and the term is used in a variety of contexts in Hindu philosophy. Prāṇa is considered the basic vāyu from which the other vāyus arise. Hence prāṇā is the collective term for the vāyus of prāṇa, apāna, uḍāna, samāna, and vyāna. The functions of the five vāyus are as follows:\n\nIndian philosophy describes prana flowing in nadis (channels). The \"Shiva Samhita\" states that 350,000 nadis are found in the human body, while other texts mention 72,000 nadis, each branching off into another 72,000. These nadis play an important role in the application and understanding of certain yoga practices. \"Shiva Samhita\" explains that the three most important nadis are the Ida, the Pingala, and the Sushumna, each facilitating the flow of \"praṇā vāyu\" throughout the body.\n\nIda nadi relates to the left side of the body, terminating at the left nostril. Pingala nadi relates to the right side of the body, terminating at the right nostril. Sushumna nadi connects the base chakra at the base of the spine to the crown chakra at the top of the head.\n\nThe practice of pranayama can be used to balance the flow of prana within the body. When \"praṇā vāyu\" enters a period of uplifted, intensified activity, the yogic tradition refers to it as pranotthana, a precursor to the Kundalini state.\n\nWhen the mind is agitated due to our interactions with the world at large, the physical body also follows in its wake. These agitations cause violent fluctuations in the flow of Prana in the Nadis.\n\nThe word \"Prāṇāyāma\" derives from the Sanskrit words \"prāṇa\" and \"ayāma\", translating as \"life force\" and \"expansion\", respectively. It is a common term for various techniques for accumulating, expanding and working with prana. Pranayama is one of the eight limbs of yoga and is a practice of specific and often intricate breath control techniques. The dynamics and laws of Prana were understood through systematic practice of Pranayama to gain mastery over Prana.\n\nMany pranayama techniques are designed to cleanse the nadis, allowing for greater movement of prana. Other techniques may be utilized to arrest the breath for samadhi or to bring awareness to specific areas in the practitioner's subtle or physical body. It can also be utilized to generate inner heat as in the practice of tummo.\n\nIn Ayurveda and therapeutic yoga, pranayama may be utilized for many tasks, including to affect mood and aid in digestion. A.G. Mohan stated that the physical goals of pranayama may be to recover from illness or the maintenance of health, while its mental goals are: \"to remove mental disturbances and make the mind focused for meditation\".\n\nAccording to Georg Feuerstein: \"The two most important species of the life force are obviously prâna and apâna, which underlie the breathing process. Their incessant activity is seen as the principal cause for the restlessness of the mind, and their stoppage is the main purpose of breath control (prânâyâma)\". Swami Yogananda writes, \"The real meaning of Pranayama, according to Patanjali, the founder of Yoga philosophy, is the gradual cessation of breathing, the discontinuance of inhalation and exhalation\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36721370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36721370", "title": "Product defect", "text": "Product defect\n\nA product defect is any characteristic of a product which hinders its usability for the purpose for which it was designed and manufactured. \n\nProduct defects arise most prominently in legal contexts, where the term is applied to \"anything that renders the product not reasonably safe\". The field of law that addresses injuries caused by defective products is called products liability.\n\nA wide range of circumstances can render a product defective. The product may have a design defect, resulting from the product having been poorly designed or tested, so that the design itself yields a product that can not perform its desired function. Even if the design is correct, the product may have a manufacturing defect if it was incorrectly manufactured, for example if the wrong materials are used. A product may also be considered legally defective if it lacks appropriate instructions for its use, or appropriate warnings of dangers accompanying normal use or misuse of the product.\n\nA product that is defective in some way that does not render it dangerous might still be sold, with a discounted price reflecting the defect. For example, where a clothing manufacturer discovers that a line of shirts have been made with slightly uneven sleeves, the manufacturer may choose to sell these shirts at a discount, often through at outlet store and with the label cut off to indicate that the quality is not intended to reflect on the brand.\n"}
{"id": "1660515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1660515", "title": "Prolicide", "text": "Prolicide\n\nProlicide is the act of killing one's own offspring. \n\nIt may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "486610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=486610", "title": "Randolph Churchill", "text": "Randolph Churchill\n\nRandolph Frederick Edward Spencer-Churchill (28 May 1911 – 6 June 1968) was a British journalist, writer and a Conservative Member of Parliament (MP) for Preston from 1940 to 1945.\n\nHe was the only son of British Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill and his wife, Clementine Churchill, Baroness Spencer-Churchill. He wrote the first two volumes of the official life of his father, complemented by an extensive archive of materials. His first wife (1939–46) was Pamela Digby; their son, Winston, followed his father into Parliament.\n\nRandolph Churchill was born at his parents' house at Eccleston Square, London, on 28 May 1911. His parents nicknamed him \"the Chumbolly\" before he was born.\n\nHis father Winston Churchill was already a leading Liberal Cabinet Minister and Randolph was christened in the House of Commons crypt on 26 October 1911, with Foreign Secretary Sir Edward Grey and Conservative politician F. E. Smith among his godparents. Randolph and his older sister Diana had for a time to be escorted by plain clothes detectives on their walks in the park, because of threats by suffragettes to kidnap them. He was a page at the marriage of the Prime Minister's daughter Violet Asquith to Maurice Bonham Carter on 1 December 1915.\n\nHe recalled the Zeppelin raids of 1917 as \"a great treat\", as the children were taken from their beds in the middle of the night, wrapped in blankets, and \"allowed\" to join the grown-ups in the cellar; he also recalled the Armistice celebrations at Blenheim Palace.\n\nHe went to Sandroyd School and later admitted that he had had a problem with authority and discipline. His headmaster reported to his father that he was \"very combative\". Around this time his nickname in the family was \"The Rabbit\". Winston, who had been neglected by his parents as a small boy, visited his son at prep school as often as possible. Randolph was very good-looking as a child and into his twenties. In his autobiography \"Twenty-One Years\" (pp. 24–25) he recorded that at the age of ten he had been \"interfered with\" by a junior prep school master, who made Randolph touch him sexually, only to leap embarrassed to his feet when a matron came in. At home, a maid overheard Randolph confiding in his sister Diana. He later wrote that he had never seen his father so angry, and that he had made a hundred mile trip to demand that the teacher be dismissed, only to learn that the teacher had already been sacked.\n\nHe remembered that he and Diana returned from ice-skating in Holland Park on 22 June 1922 to find the house guarded and being searched by \"tough-looking men\" following the assassination of Field Marshal Henry Wilson.\n\nWinston gave his son a choice of Eton College or Harrow School, and he chose the former. Randolph later wrote \"I was lazy and unsuccessful both at work and at games … and was an unpopular boy\". He was once said to have been given \"six up\" (i.e. a beating) by his house's Captain of Games (a senior boy) for being \"bloody awful all round\". Michael Foot later wrote that this was \"the kind of comprehensive verdict which others who had dealings with him were always searching for\". He once wrote apologising to his father for \"having done so badly and disappointed you so much\". During the General Strike he fixed up a secret radio set as his housemaster would not allow him to have one. In November 1926 his headmaster wrote to his father to inform him that he had caned Randolph, then aged 15, after all five of the masters then teaching him had independently reported him for \"either being idle or being a bore with his chatter\".\n\nAs a teenager Randolph fell in love with Diana Mitford, sister of his friend Tom Mitford. Tom Mitford was regarded as having a calming influence on him, although his housemaster Colonel Sheepshanks wrongly suspected Randolph and Tom of being lovers; Randolph replied, \"I happen to be in love with his sister\".\n\nRandolph was \"a loquacious and precocious boy\". From his teenage years he was encouraged to attend his father's dinner parties with leading politicians of the day, drink and have his say, and he later recorded that he would simply have laughed at anyone who had suggested that he would \"not\" go straight into politics and perhaps even become Prime Minister by his mid-twenties like William Pitt the Younger. His sister later wrote that he \"manifestly needed a father's hand\" but his father \"spoiled and indulged him\", and did not take seriously the complaints of his schoolmasters. He was influenced by his godfather Lord Birkenhead (F. E. Smith), an opinionated and heavy-drinking man. Winston Churchill was Chancellor of the Exchequer from late 1924 until 1929. Busy in that office, he neglected his daughters in favour of Randolph, who was his only son. On a visit to Italy in 1927 Winston and Randolph were received by Pope Pius XI. In later life \"relations between Winston and Randolph were always uneasy, the father alternately spoiling and being infuriated by the son.\"\n\nIn April 1928 Winston forwarded a satisfactory school report to Clementine, who was in Florence, commenting that Randolph was \"developing fast\" and would be fit for politics, the bar or journalism and was \"far more advanced than I was at his age\". His mother replied that \"He is certainly going to be an interest, an anxiety & an excitement in our lives\". He had cool relations with his mother from an early age, in part because she felt him to be spoiled and arrogant as a result of his father's overindulgence. Clementine's biographer writes that \"Randolph was for decades a recurrent embarrassment to both his parents\".\n\nIn what would turn out to be his final report on leaving Eton, Robert Birley, one of his history teachers, wrote of his native intelligence and writing ability, but added that he found it too easy to get by on little work or with a journalist's knack of spinning a single idea into an essay.\n\nRandolph went up to Christ Church, Oxford in January 1929, partway through the academic year and not yet eighteen, after his father's friend Professor Lindemann had advised that a place had fallen vacant.\n\nIn May he spoke for his father at the 1929 General Election. Between August and October 1929 Randolph and his uncle accompanied his father (now out of office) on his lecture tour of the US and Canada. His diary of the trip was later included in \"Twenty-One Years\". On one occasion he impressed his father by delivering an impromptu five-minute reply to a tedious speech by a local cleric. At San Simeon (the mansion of press baron Randolph Hearst) he lost his virginity to the Hungarian dancer Tilly Losch.\n\nRandolph was already drinking double brandies at the age of eighteen, to his parents' consternation. He did little work or sport at Oxford and spent most of his time at lengthy lunch and dinner parties with other well-connected undergraduates and with dons who enjoyed being entertained by them. Randolph later claimed that he had benefited from the experience, but at the time his lifestyle earned him a magisterial letter of rebuke from his father (29 December 1929), warning him that he was \"not acquiring any habits of industry or concentration\" and that he would withdraw him from Oxford if he did not knuckle down to study. Winston Churchill had also received a similar and oft-quoted letter of rebuke from his own father, Lord Randolph Churchill, at almost exactly the same age.\n\nRandolph dropped out of Oxford in October 1930 to conduct a lecture tour of the US. He was already in debt; his mother guessed correctly that he would never finish his degree. Contrary to his later claims, his father attempted to dissuade him at the time.\n\nUnlike his father, who had become a powerful orator through much practice, and whose speeches always required extensive preparation, public speaking came easily to Randolph. His son later recorded that this was a mixed blessing: \"because of the very facility with which he could speak extemporaneously [he] failed to make the effort required to bring him more success\".\n\nRandolph very nearly married Miss Kay Halle of Cleveland, Ohio, seven years his senior. His father wrote begging him not to be so foolish as to marry before he had established a career. Clementine visited him in December, using money Winston had given her to buy a small car. Contrary to newspaper reports that she had crossed the Atlantic to put a stop to the wedding, she only learned of the engagement when she arrived. She found Randolph, to her horror, living in an extravagant suite of hotel rooms, but was able to write to Miss Halle's father, who agreed that it would be unwise for their children to marry.\n\nClementine wrote to her husband of one of Randolph's lectures \"Frankly, it was not at \"all\" good\" and commented that he should have had it well-practised by now, although she was impressed by his delivery. She went home in April 1931, having enjoyed Randolph's company in New York. She would later look back on the trip with nostalgia.\n\nRandolph's lecture tour earned him $12,000 (£2,500 at the then rate of exchange – over £140,000 at 2016 prices). By the time of his mother's arrival he had already spent £1,000 in three months, despite being on a £400 annual parental allowance. He left the US owing $2,000 to his father's friend, the financier Bernard Baruch − a debt which he did not repay for thirty years.\n\nIn October 1931 Randolph began a lecture tour of the UK. He lost £600 by betting wrongly on the results of the General Election; his father paid his debts on condition he gave up his chauffeur-driven Bentley, a more extravagant car than his father drove. In 1931 he shared Edward James's house in London with John Betjeman. By the early 1930s Randolph was working as a journalist for the Rothermere press. He wrote in an article in 1932 that he planned to \"make an immense fortune and become Prime Minister\" He warned that the Nazis meant war as early as March 1932 in his \"Daily Graphic\" column; his son Winston later claimed that he was the first British journalist to warn about Hitler.\n\nIn 1932 Winston Churchill had Philip Laszlo paint an idealised portrait of his son for his 21st birthday. Winston Churchill organised a \"Fathers and Sons\" dinner at Claridge's for his birthday on 16 June 1932, with Lord Hailsham and his son Quintin Hogg, Lord Cranborne and Freddie Birkenhead, the son of Winston's late friend FE Smith. Also present were Admiral of the Fleet Earl Beatty and his son, and Oswald Mosley (then still seen as a coming man).\n\nRandolph reported from the German elections in July 1932. Randolph encouraged his father to try to meet Adolf Hitler in summer 1932 whilst he was retracing the Duke of Marlborough's march to Blenheim (Winston was writing the Duke's life at the time); the meeting fell through at the last minute as Hitler excused himself. At Lady Diana Cooper's fortieth birthday party in Venice that year a woman was deliberately burned on her hand with a cigarette by a thwarted lover, and Randolph sprang to her defence.\n\nRandolph also became embroiled in the controversy of the February 1933 King and Country debate at the Oxford Union Society. Three weeks after the Union had passed a pacifist motion, Randolph and his friend Lord Stanley proposed a resolution to delete the previous motion from the Union's records. After a poor speech from Stanley, the President Frank Hardie temporarily handed over the chair to the Librarian and opposed the motion on behalf of the Union, a very unusual move. The minutes record that he received \"a very remarkable ovation\". Randolph was then met by a barrage of hisses and stink bombs. His speech, facing what the minutes describe as a \"very antipathetic and even angry house\" was \"unfortunate in his manner and phrasing\" and was met with \"delighted jeers\". He then attempted to withdraw the motion. Hardie was willing to permit this, but an ex-President pointed out from the floor that a vote of the whole house was required to allow a motion to be withdrawn. The request to withdraw was defeated by acclamation and the motion was then defeated by 750 votes to 138 (a far better attendance than the original debate had attained). Randolph had persuaded a number of other former students, life members of the Union, to attend in the hope of carrying his motion. A bodyguard of Oxford Conservatives and police escorted Churchill back to his hotel after the debate. Sir Edward Heath recorded in his memoirs that after the debate some of the undergraduates had been intent on debagging him. Winston Churchill wrote praising his son's courage in addressing a large, hostile audience, adding that \"he was by no means cowed\".\n\nRandolph's good looks and self-confidence soon brought him some success as a womaniser, but his attempt to seduce one young woman at Blenheim failed after she spent the night in bed for protection with his cousin Anita Leslie, whilst Randolph sat on the side of the bed talking at length of \"when I am Prime Minister\". Randolph, who had been lucky not to be named in court as one of her lovers, also comforted a tearful Tilly Losch in public at Quaglino's after her divorce in 1934, to the amusement of the other diners and the waiters.\n\nIn the 1930s, Winston's overindulgence of his son was one of several causes of coolness between him and Clementine. Clementine several times threw him out of Chartwell after arguments; at one time Clementine told Randolph she hated him and never wanted to see him again.\n\nRandolph Churchill's political career (like that of his son) was not as successful as that of his father or grandfather Lord Randolph Churchill. In an attempt to assert his own political standing he announced in January 1935 that he was a candidate in the Wavertree by-election in Liverpool; on 6 February 1935, an Independent Conservative on a platform of rearmament and Anti-Indian Home Rule. His involvement was criticised by his father for splitting the official Conservative vote and letting in a winning Labour candidate, although Winston appeared to support Randolph on the hustings. Michael Foot was an eyewitness at Wavertree where he blamed Baldwin's India policy for hurting the Lancashire cotton trade. When he asked rhetorically \"And who is responsible for putting Liverpool where she is today?\" a heckler shouted \"Blackburn Rovers!\". \"He collected 10,000 Independent votes in a few days and handed the seat on a platter to the Labour Party\" as Foot later put it.\n\nIn March 1935, he sponsored an Independent Conservative candidate, Richard Findlay, also a member of the British Union of Fascists, to stand in a by-election in Norwood. This attracted no backing from MPs or the press and Findlay lost to the official Conservative candidate, Duncan Sandys, who in September that year became Randolph's brother-in-law, marrying his sister Diana. He had a violent row with his father about Norwood and Winston did not support him in any way this time, although he was suspected by other Conservatives of having done so. Duncan Sandys was the only one of Randolph's Conservative opponents to win; he soon became jealous when he joined the family and his father warmed to him.\n\nHaving blamed Baldwin and the party organization for his loss, he libelled Sir Thomas White. Over the summer he was summoned to the High Court to pay damages of £1,000; but immediately backtracked, when advised that without an apology a career in politics was over.\n\nRandolph Churchill was an effective manipulator of the media, using his family name to obtain coverage in newspapers such as the \"Daily Mail\". In the November 1935 general election he stood as the official Conservative candidate at Labour-held West Toxteth; reportedly he was so unwelcome that they threw bananas. The Earl of Derby lent his support, and Randolph continued to aid the Conservative campaigning across the city. He stood for Parliament a third time, as a Unionist on 10 February 1936 in a by-election at Ross and Cromarty, opposed to the National Government candidacy of Malcolm MacDonald, but was defeated again. This embarrassed his father who was hoping to be offered a Cabinet position at this time.\n\nIn September 1936, at his father's behest, Randolph pursued his younger sister Sarah to the US in a vain attempt to dissuade her from marrying the much older comedian Vic Oliver.\n\nLady Houston had backed Randolph's three attempts to stand for Parliament. He was better backed financially than his father had ever been. This support came to a halt when she died late in 1936. Freddie Birkenhead remarked that he was \"unbowed but bloody as usual\". Thereafter he used his employment as a Beaverbrook/Rothermere journalist to promote his political career, and to warn of the dangers of Hitler. In 1937 he tried in vain to get an invitation from Unity Mitford to meet Hitler. The diarist \"Chips\" Channon speculated (15 April) that if Winston Churchill were to return to office under the new Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain the outcome might be \"an explosion of foolishness after a short time\", war with Germany or even \"a seat for Randolph\". Churchill warned the House of Commons (19 July 1937) that there were twelve-inch Spanish howitzers trained on Gibraltar. Channon recorded that this reduced the House's sympathies for Franco, but that when the House learned that the source was \"Master Randolph\" (as he described him) MPs were merely amused.\n\nVirginia Cowles first met Randolph in New York in the early 1930s. He helped her to get a visa to report from the USSR in February 1939. She praised his courage but wrote of him that \"going out with him was like going out with a time bomb. Wherever he went an explosion seemed to follow. With a natural and brilliant gift of oratory, and a disregard for the opinions of his elders, he often held dinner parties pinned in a helpless and angry silence. I never knew a young man who had the ability to antagonise so easily.\" At a dinner at Blenheim for Lady Sarah Spencer-Churchill's 18th birthday in July 1939 a drunk Randolph had to be removed after behaving badly to a woman who spurned his advances and starting a row with another man over Winston's reputation.\n\nRandolph Churchill joined his father's old regiment, the 4th Queen's Own Hussars, in August 1939. He was one of the oldest of the junior officers, and not popular with his peers. In order to win a bet, he walked the 106-mile round trip from their base in Hull to York and back in under 24 hours. He was followed by a car, both to witness the event and in case his blisters became too painful to walk further, and made it with around twenty minutes to spare. To his great annoyance, his brother officers did not pay up.\n\nOn the outbreak of war Randolph's father was appointed First Lord of the Admiralty. He sent Captain Lord Louis Mountbatten, along with Lieutenant Randolph Churchill, aboard \"HMS Kelly\" (which was based at Plymouth at the time) to Cherbourg to bring the Duke and Duchess of Windsor back to England from their exile. Randolph was on board the destroyer untidily attired in his 4th Hussars uniform; he had attached the spurs to his boots upside down. The Duke was mildly shocked and insisted on bending down to fit Randolph's spurs correctly.\n\nRandolph was in love with Laura Charteris (she did not reciprocate) but his mistress at the time was the American actress Claire Luce, who often visited him in camp. He appears to have decided that as Winston's only son it was his duty to marry and sire an heir in case he was killed, a common motivation among young men at the time. He quickly became engaged to Pamela Digby in late September 1939. It was rumoured that Randolph had proposed to eight women in the past few weeks and Pamela's friends and parents were not pleased about the match. She was charmed by Randolph's parents, both of whom warmed to her and felt she would be a good influence on him. They were married in October 1939. On their wedding night Randolph read her chunks of Edward Gibbon's \"Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\". Despite this she managed to become pregnant by the spring of 1940.\n\nIn May 1940 Randolph's father, to whom he remained close both politically and socially, became Prime Minister, just as the Battle of France was beginning. In the summer of 1940 Winston Churchill's secretary Jock Colville wrote (\"Fringes of Power\" p207) \"I thought Randolph one of the most objectionable people I had ever met: noisy, self-assertive, whining and frankly unpleasant. He did not strike me as intelligent. At dinner he was anything but kind to Winston, who adores him\". The polemic against appeasement \"Guilty Men\" (July 1940), in fact written anonymously by Michael Foot and others, was wrongly attributed to Randolph Churchill.\n\nRandolph was elected unopposed to Parliament for Preston at a wartime by-election in September 1940. Soon afterwards his son Winston was born on 10 October 1940. During the first year of marriage Randolph had no home of his own until Brendan Bracken found them a vicarage at Ickleford near Hitchin, Hertfordshire. Pamela often had to ask Winston to pay Randolph's gambling debts.\n\nIt was widely suspected, including by Randolph himself, that secret orders had been given that the 4th Hussars were not to be sent into action (they were, as soon as Randolph transferred out). Randolph transferred to No. 8 (Guards) Commando. In February 1941 they were sent out, a six week journey via the Cape of Good Hope and the East Coast of Africa, avoiding the Central Mediterranean where the Italian navy and Axis air forces were strong. Randolph, who was still earning £1,500 per annum as a Lord Beaverbrook journalist, lost £3,000 gambling on the voyage. Pamela had to go to Beaverbrook, who refused her an advance on Randolph's salary. Declining his offer of an outright gift (it is unclear whether submitting to his sexual advances was a condition), she sold her wedding presents, including jewellery, took a job with Beaverbrook, arranging accommodation for workers being redeployed around the country, sublet her home and moved into a cheap room on the top floor of The Dorchester (very risky during The Blitz). By accepting hospitality from others most evenings she was able to put her entire salary towards paying Randolph's debts. She may also have had a miscarriage at this time. The marriage was as good as over and she soon began an affair with her future husband Averell Harriman, who was also staying at the Dorchester at the time.\n\nOnce in Egypt, Randolph served as a General Staff (Intelligence) officer at Middle East HQ. Averell Harriman visited Randolph in Cairo in June 1941 to bring him news of his family. Randolph, who himself had a long-term mistress and several casual girlfriends at the time, had no idea yet that he was being cuckolded. He had recently been reduced to tears on being told to his face by a brother officer how deeply disliked he was, something of which he had previously had no idea. Later in 1941 he was promoted to the rank of Major and put in charge of Army information at GHQ. For a time he edited a newspaper \"Desert News\" for the troops. He lived at Shepheard's Hotel. Anita Leslie, then in an ambulance company, wrote that \"he could not cease trumpeting his opinions and older men could be seen turning purple with anger\" and that he was \"insufferable\".\n\nOn leave in January 1942, he criticised the Tories for exculpating Winston Churchill's decision to defend Greece and Crete. He was sensitive to the \"co-operation and self-sacrifice\" of parts of the Empire that in 1942 were in more immediate danger than the British Isles, mentioning Australia and Malaya which suffered under Japanese threats of invasion. He was scathing of Sir Herbert Williams' \"Official Report\" into the Conduct of the War.\n\nHis father, who was under great stress following recent Japanese victories in the Far East, visited him briefly in Cairo in spring 1942. Randolph had a row with his parents so violent that Clementine thought Winston might have a seizure. In April 1942 he volunteered for the newly formed SAS, to his mother's dismay because of the strain on his father. She contemplated cabling him forbidding him to go, but knew that Winston would want him to. He joined the SAS CO David Stirling and six SAS men on a mission behind enemy lines in the Libyan Desert to Benghazi in May 1942. The Benghazi Raid did not reach its goals and Randolph severely dislocated his back when his truck overturned in a road accident during the journey home. After a stay in Cairo he was invalided back to England. Randolph had sent few letters to Pamela, and many to Laura Charteris, with whom he was in love and who was in the process of getting divorced. Evelyn Waugh recorded that Pamela \"hates him so much that she can't sit in a room with him\". By November 1942 Randolph had formally left her; his parents, who adored their baby grandson Winston, sympathised with Pamela.\n\nIn November 1942 he visited Morocco to witness the American landings. Randolph encouraged the conversion of Vichy fighters to de Gaulle's army, submitting reports to Parliament on 23 February 1943. In May 1943 Randolph visited his father in Algiers, where he was celebrating the successful conclusion of the Tunisian Campaign. Randolph, along with his sister Sarah, accompanied his father to the Tehran Conference in November 1943. On the way back they quarrelled again about his failed marriage, which may have contributed to the serious heart attack which Winston Churchill suffered at Tunis. He visited his father, who was laid up with pneumonia, in Marrakesh in December 1943 (General Alexander gave him a lift on his plane).\n\nRandolph had encountered Fitzroy Maclean in the Western Desert Campaign. Winston Churchill agreed to Randolph accepting Maclean's offer to join his military and diplomatic mission (Macmis) to Tito's Partisans in Yugoslavia, warning him not to get captured in case the Gestapo sent him Randolph's fingers one by one. He returned to England for training then in January or February 1944 he parachuted into Yugoslavia. Tom Mitford was also present in the group. He was later joined in Yugoslavia by Evelyn Waugh and Freddie Birkenhead. Round about this time he lost a bet to read various books of the Bible without speaking, but never paid up.\n\nAfter the German airdrop outside Tito's Drvar headquarters in June 1944 (\"Operation \"Knight's Leap\"\" Rosselsprung) Randolph was awarded the MBE, having been recommended for a Military Cross. Fitzroy Maclean reported highly of his abilities at this stage. However, Maclean wrote of their adventures together, and some of the problems Churchill caused him, in his memoir \"Eastern Approaches\". Tito had barely managed to evade the Germans and Churchill and Evelyn Waugh arrived on the island of Vis and met him on 10 July. In July 1944 he and Waugh were among the ten survivors of a Dakota crash. He suffered spinal and knee injuries. He cried when he learned that his servant had been killed, but behaved with \"his usual loud rudeness\" as an invalid. After discharge from hospital in Bari (in the \"heel\" of Italy), he convalesced with Duff and Diana Cooper in Algiers. His father visited him in Algiers on his way to Italy – they discussed French and British politics.\n\nRandolph was ordered by Maclean to take charge of the military mission in Croatia. By September he was back in Yugoslavia, where Waugh recorded that he was drunk most days, needed to have things repeated back to him when sober and behaved awfully even when sober. Waugh described him as \"a flabby bully who rejoices in blustering and shouting down anyone weaker than himself and starts squealing as soon as he meets anyone as strong … he is a bore – with no intellectual invention or agility. He has a childlike retentive memory, and repetition takes the place of thought. He has set himself very low aims and has not the self-control to pursue them steadfastly.\" Lovell writes that every observer, including Duff Cooper and Anita Leslie, record frequent \"drunken ranting\" from him at this period. On good days he could be excellent company. With Waugh he established a military mission at Topusko on 16 September 1944. One outcome was a formidable report detailing Tito's persecution of the clergy. It was \"buried\" by Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden (who also attempted to discredit Waugh) to save diplomatic embarrassment, as Tito was then seen as a required ally of Britain and an official \"friend\".\n\nTom Mitford, one of Randolph's few close friends, was killed in Burma in March 1945 when it was clear that the war was in its final stages.\n\nRandolph's attendance in the Commons was irregular and patchy, which may have contributed to his defeat in July 1945. He had assumed he would hold his seat in 1945, but did not. (He never actually won a contested election to Parliament.)\n\nRandolph had a blazing row with his father and Brendan Bracken at a dinner at Claridges on 31 August. Many thought Winston Churchill's cronies Bracken and Beaverbrook, the architects of the general election defeat, reported this on 26 July 1945.\n\nRandolph was divorced from Pamela 1946. His sister writes that after the war he led a \"rampaging existence\" as \"he always had lances to break, and hares to start\". He was loyal and affectionate, but \"would pick an argument with a chair\". Winston declared that he had a \"deep animal love\" for Randolph but that \"every time we meet we seem to have a bloody row\". Randolph believed that he could control his temper by willpower, but he could not do this when drunk and alcohol \"fuelled his sense of thwarted destiny\". His father no longer had the energy for argument, so reduced the time he spent with Randolph and the amount he confided in him. Randolph maintained good written relations with his mother, but she could not stand arguments and often retreated to her room when he visited. She was able to help him out of his financial difficulties, which he acknowledged, \"spared him much humiliation\".\n\nAs Winston Churchill's relations with his son cooled, he lavished affection on a series of surrogate sons, including Brendan Bracken and Randolph's brothers-in-law Duncan Sandys and, from 1947, Christopher Soames, as well as, to a certain extent, Anthony Eden. All of these, Randolph loathed. He had still not entirely abandoned his youthful fantasy of one day becoming Prime Minister, and resented Eden's position as his father's political heir. Randolph used to refer to Eden as \"Jerk Eden\".\n\nNoel Coward quipped that Randolph was \"utterly unspoiled by failure\". He was blackballed from the Beefsteak Club and on one occasion was slapped twice across the face by Duff Cooper at the Paris Embassy for making an obnoxious remark. He reported on the Red Army parade from Moscow. He was still trying to persuade Laura Charteris to marry him. Although they were on-off lovers, she told friends that Randolph needed a mother rather than a wife. In 1948 he tried to persuade Pamela to take him back, but she declined and, having converted to Catholicism, obtained a full annulment, soon beginning a relationship with Gianni Agnelli. Randolph accepted that he could never have Laura, with whom he had been in love for much of his adult life.\n\nHe courted June Osborne, his junior by eleven years. Mary Lovell describes her as \"a vulnerable and needy girl-woman\". They had a stormy three-month courtship, during which at one point June, high on a mixture of Benzedrine and wine, ran towards the River Thames and threatened suicide, calling the police and accusing Randolph of indecent assault when he tried to prevent her. Evelyn Waugh wrote to Randolph (14 October 1948) that June \"must be possessed of magnificent courage\" to marry him. On 23 October he wrote to June at Randolph's request, urging her to see Randolph's good side, calling him \"a domestic and home-loving character who has never had a home\". Randolph and June were married in November 1948.\n\nRandolph's son Winston, then aged 8, remembered June as \"a beautiful lady with long, blonde hair\" who made an effort to bond with her young stepson. Diana Cooper guessed at once after their honeymoon that Randolph and June were unsuited to one another. They had a daughter, Arabella, (October 1949 – December 2007). His sister later wrote that \"He does not seem to have possessed the aptitudes for marriage\". The marriage soon deteriorated and on one occasion he reduced Queen's Restaurant in Sloane Square to silence by shouting at June over dinner that she was \"a paltry little middle-class bitch always anxious to please and failing owing to her dismal manners\". Eventually another diner remonstrated with him for speaking to his wife in that way; Randolph rebuked him for interfering in a private conversation, only to be told that it sounded like a public conversation to him.\n\nRandolph stood unsuccessfully for the Parliamentary seat of Plymouth Devonport in February 1950. His opponent Michael Foot wrote that he talked as though Plymouth belonged to him, and issued \"a brilliant cascade of abuse\" in all directions, including his own party workers.\n\nRandolph reported on the Korean War from August 1950, six weeks after the initial North Korean invasion of the south. The American and South Korean forces were bottled into a perimeter around Pusan and Taegu. His father gave him a handwritten letter of introduction to General Douglas MacArthur. This was dangerous work: 17 war correspondents were killed, either by enemy fire or in air crashes, including the correspondents of \"The Times\" and the \"Daily Telegraph\". Randolph was wounded on patrol near the Naktong River. Before seeking treatment he insisted on finishing his copy and giving it to the crew of a plane bound for Hong Kong.\n\nWhilst dining in Hong Kong, he had an altercation with the restaurant staff, who then proceeded to get the manually-operated lift stuck between floors, and to \"accidentally\" get grease on his new white suit whilst hauling him out. While Winston Churchill was researching his biography of his father, Alan Whicker, who had been Randolph's dining companion for the evening, confirmed the account which Randolph had given to his son at the time. He returned to Korea to report on the Inchon Landings, the liberation of Seoul and the UN forces' crossing of the 38th Parallel. He then returned to the UK for an operation (6 February 1951) on his wounded leg.\n\nMary Lovell records that repeated stories of Randolph's drunkenness, foul temper and financial difficulties date from this period. On one occasion, probably around this time, he became drunk and abusive in the first class cabin of a BOAC flight and had to be put off the plane at the earliest opportunity (the incident was hushed up to avoid embarrassing his father). Evelyn Waugh visited him in hospital, noting that there was no sign of his wife June, and observed that he had thought his own life dull \"but when I see the alternative I am consoled\".\n\nRandolph was involved in an altercation on board a train at Nottingham on 22 February 1951. He was denied entry to the locked restaurant car by a railway employee, then later asked by the same man to leave the reserved seat in which he had been sitting. While he stood smoking in the corridor, the man (by Randolph's account) taunted him that he was \"in the soup again\". Randolph called the man \"a bastard\". At the next station Randolph was questioned by a plain-clothes policeman who had been summoned to board the train. The railwayman actually \"was\" illegitimate and he sued Randolph for slander, his lawyers arguing that it was \"not in the public interest\" for this fact to be revealed. The eminent barrister Sir Hartley Shawcross finally persuaded him to withdraw his lawsuit after eighteen months of correspondence.\n\nHe stood for Parliament for Devonport again in 1951. In 1951, as in 1950, Foot and Randolph exchanged invective in public, but got on well in private, often meeting for a drink at the end of the day when Randolph had been deserted by his own party workers, with whom he had a poor relationship. Foot and his wife Jill Craigie would sometimes even escort Randolph back to his train. Michael Foot later said to one of Randolph's researchers: \"You and I belong to the most exclusive club in London: the friends of Randolph Churchill\".\n\nHaving lost every parliamentary contest he ever fought (he had got in unopposed in 1940), he was desperately disappointed not to be able to get back into Parliament as the Conservatives returned to power.\n\nIn the days after the 1951 General Election, while his father was forming a government, Randolph amused himself by ringing up Conservative MPs who hurried to the phone on being told that \"Mr Churchill\" wished to speak to them urgently, assuming that they were about to be offered a ministerial position. During the post-war era Anthony Eden remained the Prime Minister's designated successor, yet when Eden married Clarissa Churchill in 1952, Randolph could hardly contain his utter contempt for his cousin's new husband. He dubbed his ranting phone calls the \"Eden Terror\". Randolph had long been jealous of Anthony Eden, and often wrote articles critical of him in the \"Evening Standard\". These articles helped to harm Eden's reputation. Eden did not reply in public, but complained privately to John Colville.\n\nRandolph was a Gold Staff Officer at the Coronation in 1953. In a speech at a Foyle's literary luncheon at the Dorchester in September 1953 Randolph, who \"had had a few drinks\" asked why a rich man like the press baron Lord Rothermere (his former employer) needed to \"prostitute\" himself by printing details about the private lives of public figures, which Randolph described as \"pornography for pornography's sake\". Rothermere was not initially worried by this or the next speech. Randolph repeated his accusation at the Manchester Publishing Association on 7 October 1953 and in another speech. His lawyer and Sir Hartley Shawcross had both urged him to go ahead.\n\nWhen sober Randolph could still be excellent company, as even his mother admitted, and could even switch off his \"temper\" when told that lunch was ready. Randolph was assisted by Alan Brien to write the life of Lord Derby, and whilst researching it in 1953 he and June lived at Oving House near Aylesbury, which got him away from White's Club and his gambling friends. The family trustees agreed to buy Stour House, East Bergholt, near Colchester. For the first time he had a proper home of his own.\n\nHowever, his marriage continued to deteriorate, with occasional reports that he had blacked his wife's eye or that she had left to stay with friends, or that she had flung all her clothes out of a window. There was one furious row at Chequers, described as \"gruesome\" by June and \"his familiar rudeness\" by Mary Lovell. He called his brother-in-law Christopher Soames \"a shit\" and Eden \"a jerk\" whilst his father, still Prime Minister at the time, was so \"shaken with fury\" that he seemed about to have a seizure. Randolph retired upstairs for a further noisy row with his wife, declaring that he would never see his father again. Sir Winston patched up the argument at 1am. June finally left him in the summer of 1954.\n\nEven on the eve of his father's resignation, Randolph told his cousin Clarissa Eden that he did not approve of her husband becoming Prime Minister.\n\nWinston Churchill had declined a peerage at the end of the Second World War, and then did so again on his retirement in 1955 (when he was offered the Dukedom of London), ostensibly so as not to compromise his son's political career by preventing him from serving in the House of Commons (life peerages, titles not inherited by sons, were not created until 1958). The main reason was actually that Winston himself wanted to remain in the Commons—but by 1955, when his father resigned as Prime Minister, Randolph's political career was \"already hopeless\".\n\nRandolph introduced his father to Aristotle Onassis, on whose yacht \"Christina\" he was often to cruise, in January 1956.\n\nHe set up a private company, \"Country Bumpkins\", to market his pamphlet \"What I said about the Press\" (in his speeches in 1953), which most newsagents refused to stock, and soon found himself involved in a libel case. He was carefully briefed on precise details both of facts and of the intricacies of the law. He was very quick-witted under cross-examination. His political opponent Michael Foot spoke on his behalf in court in October 1956, risking his own job on the \"Daily Herald\". He was awarded £5,000 damages in 1958. His son writes that he had been \"completely self-controlled\".\n\nIn January 1958 June filed for divorce from Randolph. He fell in love with Natalie Bevan when she called on him, a case of the thunderbolt witnessed by Patrick Kinross who was there at the time. She was accepted as his companion by the Churchill family, visiting Chartwell, Hyde Park Gate and the \"Christina\". Although they became lovers in the late 1950s, Natalie remained married to her husband and never lived with Randolph.\n\nIn November 1958 he gatecrashed a dinner in his father's honour at the British Embassy in Paris (Sir Winston was receiving the Croix de Liberation from Charles de Gaulle, now returned to power in France); to general relief his mother, with whom he had not spoken in two years, addressed him as \"dear boy\".\n\nIn November and December 1958 Randolph published six articles in the \"Daily Express\" about the Suez Crisis. Soon afterwards he published \"The Rise and Fall of Sir Anthony Eden\" (1959). Questions were asked about it in the House, and Evelyn Waugh called the book \"despicable\". Clement Attlee reviewed the book as \"singularly offensive and inaccurate\" and wrote that \"Readers of this book will not learn much about Sir Anthony Eden, but they should get a full appreciation of Mr Randolph Churchill\". Sir Winston was deeply embarrassed about the book: Attlee later told Eden that Churchill had told him that he should have made his review stronger, whilst Sir Winston told Eden that he saw little of Randolph these days and that whenever they met, as Eden recorded, \"they only had a flaming row. Clemmie nodded sad assent\". Eden's biographer Robert Rhodes James described the book as \"a diatribe … best forgotten\".\n\nSince February 1959, as soon as it was clear that Nigel Nicolson was in trouble with his local Association, Randolph's open wish to be MP for Bournemouth was the subject of much press talk. He was not shortlisted for interview by the local Conservative Association in May. This was his last attempt to enter Parliament; it had not helped his case that in Liverpool 25 years earlier he had said \"I don't want to go into Parliament to represent a lot of stuffy old ladies in Bournemouth, I want to fight for really hard-pressed people\".\n\nRandolph inherited something of his father's literary flair, carving out a successful career for himself as a journalist. He edited the \"Londoner's Diary\" in the \"Evening Standard\" and was one of the best-paid gossip columnists on Fleet Street. He edited collections of his father's speeches, which were published in seven books between 1938 and 1961.\n\nAlthough he had no sentimental illusions about colonial peoples, he had no time for regimes based on supposed white superiority. He reported on Cyprus (where the British Army was fighting insurgents in the late 1950s) and Algeria (where French rule was coming to an end in the late 1950s and early 1960s). He particularly disliked the police state of South Africa, and on entering the country he was detained in customs for insisting on giving his thumbprint in ink (as a black person was expected to do) rather than signing the relevant entry form, until it was confirmed that he was entitled to do so. He obtained an interview with Hendrik Verwoerd, who was surrounded by revolver-toting bodyguards after addressing a rally in Boer territory. He particularly abhorred the Sharpeville Massacre, believing that \"10 London bobbies\" could have dispersed the crowd relatively peacefully.\n\nIn 1960 Randolph published the life of Edward Stanley, 17th Earl of Derby (described by Robert Blake as \"a reputable if rather dull book\" about a \"dull man\") to prove to the trustees of his father's papers that he was fit to write his official biography. In May 1960 Sir Winston Churchill approved of Randolph writing his life. \"At last his life had found a purpose\" his son later wrote.\n\nNatalie Bevan declined his proposal of marriage in August 1960, but by then they had settled into a stable relationship. Winston Churchill (the younger) never heard Randolph have a row with Natalie Bevan. Jonathan Aitken and Michael Wolff were eyewitnesses to Bobby Bevan bringing Natalie over for the evening and waiting patiently downstairs while she and Randolph enjoyed a \"Cinq à sept\". His divorce from his wife June became final in 1961. The locals called him \"the Beast of Bergholt\" and he had a reputation for not paying small tradesmen. His researchers included Martin Gilbert, Michael Wolff, Franklin Gannon, Milo Cripps, Michael Molian, Martin Mauthner and Andrew Kerr.\n\nJonathan Aitken first met him at Cherkley Court, the home of his great uncle Lord Beaverbrook, where he was having a stand-up blazing row with the journalist Hugh Cudlipp who had made the mistake of criticising his father. In the early 1960s, after they had spoken together at an Oxford Union debate the previous evening, Randolph invited Aitken to drive him back to London and join him for lunch with his parents at 28 Hyde Park Gate. After Randolph had insisted on stopping three times for drinks on the way, they arrived late and with Randolph smelling of drink. Aitken beat a hasty retreat as Randolph had a blazing row with his mother whilst Sir Winston, then in his late eighties, turned red, shook his legs and beat his walking sticks together with anger.\n\nWinston Churchill's secretary Anthony Montague Browne recorded an incident on board Aristotle Onassis's yacht in June 1963, in which Randolph \"erupted like Stromboli\", shouting abuse at his aged father and a female diner who attempted to intervene, whom he called \"a gabby doll\". Browne wrote that \"Nothing short of hitting him over the head with a bottle\" would have stopped him ... \"I had previously discounted the tales I had heard of Randolph. Now I believed them all.\" Sir Winston, too old to argue back, was physically shaking with rage, so that it was feared he might have another stroke, and afterwards made clear that he wanted his son off the boat. As he was taken off the next day (Onassis had got rid of him by arranging for him to interview the King of Greece) he was in tears, declaring his love for his father.\n\nRandolph often reported on American politics, and in Washington, DC he often stayed with his former fiancée Kay Halle, who was by then an important Washington hostess during the Democratic administrations of the 1960s. Parties with Washington insiders were often enlived by his displays of what Aitken describes as Randolph's \"boorish aggression and drunken bad manners\". The American journalist Joseph Alsop stalked off from one conversation muttering that Randolph should entitle his memoirs \"How to Lose Friends and Influence Nobody\".\n\nIn October 1963 he was in Washington (where he phoned through the news of Prime Minister Harold Macmillan's illness and impending resignation to President Kennedy). He flew home then travelled to Blackpool, where the Conservative Party Conference was in session. Randolph supported Lord Hailsham for the leadership rather than Macmillan's deputy Rab Butler. He knocked on the door of Butler's hotel room and urged him to withdraw from the contest, stressing the sixty telegrams which had been sent to him in support of Hailsham, many of them concocted by his team at East Bergholt. He distributed \"Q\" (for \"Quintin\", Lord Hailsham's first name) badges, pinning them on people; he tried to pin one on Lord Dilhorne's buttock without his noticing, but accidentally stabbed him with the pin, causing him to bellow with pain. After talking to Jonathan Aitken, who was working for Selwyn Lloyd at the time, he put £1,000 on the eventual winner Alec Douglas-Home at 6–1 to countervail his bet on Hailsham. Maurice Macmillan, Julian Amery and others were heard to say of Randolph's antics on behalf of Hailsham \"if anyone can balls it up, Randolph can\". He still hoped, somewhat unrealistically, for a peerage in Macmillan's resignation honours at the end of 1963.\n\nIn 1964 Churchill published \"The Fight For The Party Leadership\". The former Cabinet minister Iain Macleod wrote a review in \"The Spectator\" strongly critical of Randolph's book, and alleging that Macmillan had manipulated the process of \"soundings\" to ensure that Butler was not chosen as his successor. Robert Blake wrote that Randolph was \"blown out of the water\" by Macleod's article (17 January 1964) and \"for once … had no comeback\".\n\nIn 1964 Randolph was laid low by bronchopneumonia which left him so frail he could only whisper. Later in the year he had a tumour, which turned out to be benign, removed from his lung. His mother visited him frequently in hospital after his lung operation. Randolph and Evelyn Waugh had barely spoken for 12 years, but they restored friendly relations that spring; Waugh commented that \"It was a typical triumph of modern science to find the one part of Randolph which was not malignant and to remove it.\"\n\nAt his father's funeral in January 1965 Randolph walked for an hour in the intense cold, despite being not yet fully recovered from his lung operation. After his father's death, Randolph's relations with his mother, whose approval he had always craved, mellowed a little. Randolph organised a luncheon party for her 80th birthday at the Café Royal on 1 April 1965. She often sought and took his advice. He wrote a memoir of his early life, \"Twenty-One Years\", published in 1965.\n\nWinston Churchill's doctor Lord Moran published \"The Struggle for Survival\" in May 1966. Randolph wrote to \"The Times\" criticising him for publishing within 16 months of his patient's death and contrary to the wishes of the family. Diana Mosley wrote to her sister Nancy Mitford that at least Moran had not told the truth about Churchill's children: \"Randolph vile & making him cry\" whilst Diana was being given electric shocks for hysteria and Sarah was frequently being arrested.\n\nRandolph never fully recovered from his 1964 operation. By this time his health was in serious decline. He had been consuming 80–100 cigarettes and up to two bottles of whisky per day for twenty years, far in excess of his father's consumption. Drink had long since destroyed his youthful good looks. Accompanied by Natalie Bevan, he often spent winters in Marrakesh and summers in Monte Carlo, sometimes visiting Switzerland. His kidneys were failing, so he seldom drank alcohol any more, and ate little, becoming emaciated. Mary Lovell writes that \"though he still behaved with the arrogance of Louis XIV he was less explosive\". Natalie spent the days with him before returning to her own house after helping him to bed.\n\nIn 1966 Randolph published the first volume of the official biography of his father. He and his team of researchers carried on working on his father's biography despite his being mortally ill and it brought him fulfilment which he had not previously known. He had finished only the second volume and half a dozen companion volumes by the time of his death in 1968. Five volumes were planned (it eventually ran to eight, under the guidance of Sir Martin Gilbert).\n\nIn 1966 he signed a contract with the American politician Robert Kennedy to write a biography of his elder brother, President John F. Kennedy, who had been assassinated in 1963. As a consequence, Randolph obtained access to the Kennedy archives, but he died before beginning work, the very same day that Robert was assassinated.\n\nRandolph Churchill died of a heart attack in his sleep at his home, Stour House, East Bergholt, Suffolk and was found by one of his researchers the next morning, 6 June 1968. He was 57, and although he had been in poor health for years, his death was unexpected.\n\nHe is buried with his parents (his mother outliving him by almost a decade) and siblings at St Martin's Church, Bladon near Woodstock, Oxfordshire.\n\nHis will was valued for probate at £70,597 (just over £1,000,000 at 2016 prices).\n\nH.G. Wells in \"The Shape of Things to Come\", published in 1934, predicted a Second World War in which Britain would not participate but would vainly try to effect a peaceful compromise. In this vision, Randolph was mentioned as one of several prominent Britons delivering \"brilliant pacifist speeches [which] echo throughout Europe\", but fail to end the war.\n\nRandolph Churchill was played by Nigel Havers in the Southern Television's 1981 drama series, \"\", set in the decade Winston (played by Robert Hardy) was out of office and Randolph himself attempted to enter parliament.\n\nITV TV docudrama \"Churchill's Secret\", a screenplay based on the book \"The Churchill Secret: KBO\" by Jonathan Smith. Broadcast in 2016, it starred Michael Gambon, and depicted Winston Churchill during the summer of 1953 when he suffered a severe stroke, precipitating therapy and resignation; the character of Randolph (in a brief appearance) was played by the English actor Matthew Macfadyen.\n\n\n\nGlossary\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2940858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2940858", "title": "Rejuvenation", "text": "Rejuvenation\n\nRejuvenation is a medical discipline focused on the practical reversal of the aging process.\n\nRejuvenation is distinct from life extension. Life extension strategies often study the causes of aging and try to oppose those causes in order to slow aging. Rejuvenation is the \"reversal\" of aging and thus requires a different strategy, namely repair of the damage that is associated with aging or replacement of damaged tissue with new tissue. Rejuvenation can be a means of life extension, but most life extension strategies do not involve rejuvenation.\n\nVarious myths tell the stories about the quest for rejuvenation. It was believed that magic or intervention of a supernatural power can bring back the youth and many mythical adventurers set out on a journey to do that, for themselves, their relatives or some authority that sent them.\n\nAn ancient Chinese emperor actually sent out ships of young men and women to find a pearl that would rejuvenate him. This led to a myth among modern Chinese that Japan was founded by these people.\n\nIn some religions, people were to be rejuvenated after death prior to placing them in heaven.\n\nThe stories continued well into the 16th century. The Spanish explorer Juan Ponce de León led an expedition around the Caribbean islands and into Florida to find the Fountain of Youth. Led by the rumors, the expedition continued the search and many perished. The Fountain was nowhere to be found as locals were unaware of its exact location.\n\nSince the emergence of philosophy, sages and self-proclaimed wizards always made enormous efforts to find the secret of youth, both for themselves and for their noble patrons and sponsors. It was widely believed that some potions may restore the youth.\n\nAnother commonly cited approach was attempting to transfer the essence of youth from young people to old. Some examples of this approach were sleeping with virgins or children (sometimes literally sleeping, not necessarily having sex), bathing in or drinking their blood.\n\nThe quest for rejuvenation reached its height with alchemy. All around Europe, and also beyond, alchemists were looking for the Philosopher's Stone, the mythical substance that, as it was believed, could not only turn lead into gold, but also prolong life and restore youth. Although the set goal was not achieved, alchemy paved the way to the scientific method and so to the medical advances of today.\n\nSerge Abrahamovitch Voronoff was a French surgeon born in Russia who gained fame for his technique of grafting monkey testicle tissue on to the testicles of men while working in France in the 1920s and 1930s. This was one of the first medically accepted rejuvenation therapies (before he was proved to be wrong around 1930–1940). The technique brought him a great deal of money, although he was already independently wealthy. As his work fell out of favor, he went from being a highly respected surgeon to a subject of ridicule. By the early 1930s, over 500 men had been treated in France by his rejuvenation technique, and thousands more around the world, such as in a special clinic set up in Algiers. Noteworthy people who had the surgery included Harold McCormick, chairman of the board of International Harvester Company, and the aging premier of Turkey.\n\nSwiss doctor Paul Niehans, who was one of the fathers of cellular therapy, developed in 1931–1949 years the so-called Fresh cell therapy. Fresh cell therapy is mainly the use of live animal embryo organs cells which are injected into the patient with the purpose of achieving a revitalizing effect. These cells are generally extracted from sheep’s fetuses because in comparison to other animals, like pigs, rabbits and cows, sheep are clean animals and rarely contract diseases. Of course animal cells are not able to be included in human tissue, but they can secrete factors for rejuvenating. That's why this rejuvenation technology, despite the harsh criticism is practiced to this day.\n\nIn fiction, there is an increasing amount of work being done on possibilities of rejuvenation treatments, and the effect this would have on society. Misspent Youth as well as the Commonwealth Saga by Peter F. Hamilton are one of the most well known examples of this, dealing with the short- and long-term effects of a near perfect 80-year-old to 20-year-old body change with mind intact. Also the Mars trilogy deals with a much more imperfect type of rejuvenation, including problems such as long-term memory loss and sheer boredom that comes with such age. Also the post-mortal characters in the Revelation Space series often illustrate this issue with long-term or essentially infinite lifespans, sheer boredom induces them to undertake activities of extreme risk.\n\nAging is an accumulation of damage to macromolecules, cells, tissues and organs. If any of that damage can be repaired, the result is rejuvenation.\n\nThere have been many experiments which have been shown to increase the maximum life span of laboratory animals, thereby achieving life extension. A few experimental methods such as replacing hormones to youthful levels have had considerable success in partially rejuvenating laboratory animals and humans. A recent experiment involved breeding genetically manipulated mice that lacked an enzyme called telomerase, causing the mice to age prematurely and suffer ailments. When the mice were given injections to reactivate the enzyme, it repaired the damaged tissues and reversed the signs of aging. There are at least eight important hormones that decline with age: 1. human growth hormone (HGH); 2. the sexual hormones: testosterone or oestrogen/progesterone; 3. erythropoietin (EPO); 4. insulin; 5. DHEA; 6. melatonin; 7. thyroid; 8. pregnenolone. In theory, if all or some of these hormones are replaced, the body will respond to them as it did when it was younger, thus repairing and restoring many body functions. In line with this, recent experiments show that heterochronic parabiosis, i.e. connecting the circulatory systems of young and old animal, leads to the rejuvenation of the old animal, including restoration of proper stem cell function. Similar experiments show that grafting old muscles into young hosts leads to their complete restoration, whereas grafting young muscles into old hosts does not. These experiments show that aging is mediated by systemic environment, rather than being an intrinsic cell property. Clinical trials based on transfusion of young blood were scheduled to begin in 2014.\n\nMost attempts at genetic repair have traditionally involved the use of a retrovirus to insert a new gene into a random position on a chromosome. But by attaching zinc fingers (which determine where transcription factors bind) to endonucleases (which break DNA strands), homologous recombination can be induced to correct and replace defective (or undesired) DNA sequences. The first applications of this technology are to isolate stem cells from the bone marrow of patients having blood disease mutations, to correct those mutations in laboratory dishes using zinc finger endonucleases and to transplant the stem cells back into the patients.\n\nStem cell regenerative medicine uses three different strategies:\n\nA salamander can not only regenerate a limb, but can regenerate the lens or retina of an eye and can regenerate an intestine. For regeneration the salamander tissues form a blastema by de-differentiation of mesenchymal cells, and the blastema functions as a self-organizing system to regenerate the limb.\n\nYet another option involves cosmetic changes to the individual to create the appearance of youth. These are generally superficial and do little to make the person healthier or live longer, but the real improvement in a person's appearance may elevate their mood and have positive side effects normally correlated with happiness. Cosmetic surgery is a large industry offering treatments such as removal of wrinkles (\"face lift\"), removal of extra fat (liposuction) and reshaping or augmentation of various body parts (abdomen, breasts, face).\n\nThere are also, as commonly found throughout history, many fake rejuvenation products that have been shown to be ineffective. Chief among these are powders, sprays, gels, and homeopathic substances that claim to contain growth hormones. Authentic growth hormones are only effective when injected, mainly due to the fact that the 191-amino acid protein is too large to be absorbed through the mucous membranes, and would be broken up in the stomach if swallowed.\n\nThe Mprize scientific competition is under way to deliver on the mission of extending healthy human life. It directly accelerates the development of revolutionary new life extension therapies by awarding two cash prizes: one to the research team that breaks the world record for the oldest-ever mouse; and one to the team that develops the most successful late-onset rejuvenation. Current Mprize winner for rejuvenation is Steven Spindler. Caloric restriction (CR), the consumption of fewer calories while avoiding malnutrition, was applied as a robust method of decelerating aging and the development of age-related diseases.\n\nThe biomedical gerontologist Aubrey de Grey has initiated a project, Strategies for Engineered Negligible Senescence (SENS), to study how to reverse the damage caused by aging. He has proposed seven strategies for what he calls the seven deadly sins of aging:\nIn 2009, Aubrey de Grey co-founded the SENS Foundation to expedite progress in the above-listed areas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26414", "title": "Resurrection of Jesus", "text": "Resurrection of Jesus\n\nThe resurrection of Jesus or resurrection of Christ is the Christian religious belief that, after being put to death, Jesus rose again from the dead: as the Nicene Creed expresses it, \"On the third day he rose again in accordance with the Scriptures\".\n\nAccording to the New Testament, after the Romans crucified Jesus, he was anointed and buried in a new tomb by Joseph of Arimathea but God raised him from the dead and he appeared to witnesses before he ascended into heaven, to sit at the right hand of Father.\n\nPaul the Apostle declared that \"Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures; And that he was buried, and that he rose again on the third day according to the scriptures\".() The chapter states that such a belief in both the death and resurrection of Christ is of central importance to the Christian faith: \"And if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain and your faith is in vain.\"() Paul further asserted \"And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile and you are still in your sins. Then those also who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. If in Christ we have hope in this life only, we are of all people most to be pitied.\"()\n\nChristians celebrate the resurrection of Jesus on Easter Sunday, two days after Good Friday, the day of his crucifixion. Easter's date corresponds roughly with Passover, the Jewish observance associated with the Exodus, that is fixed for the night of the full moon near the time of the spring equinox.\n\nBelief in a bodily resurrection of the dead became well established within some segments of Jewish society in the centuries leading up to the time of Christ, as recorded by Daniel , from the mid-2nd century BC: \"Many of those sleeping in the dust shall awaken, some to everlasting life, and some to everlasting peril\". Josephus (1st century AD) gives the following outline: The Pharisees believed in resurrection of the dead, and the Sadducees did not. The Sadducees, politically powerful religious leaders, rejected the afterlife, angels, and demons as well as the Pharisees' oral law. The Pharisees, whose views became Rabbinic Judaism, eventually won (or at least survived) this debate. The promise of a future resurrection appears in the Torah as well as in certain Jewish works, such as the Life of Adam and Eve, \"c\" 100 BC, and the Pharisaic book 2 Maccabees, \"c\" 124 BC.\n\nThe resurrection is mentioned in several locations in the Bible. There are several places in the Four Gospels in which Jesus foretells his coming death and resurrection, which he states is the plan of God the Father. Christians view the resurrection of Jesus as part of the plan of salvation and redemption by atonement for man's sin.\n\nThe letters of Paul, which began to appear around two decades after the death of Jesus, record widespread belief in the resurrection of Jesus among his earliest followers. Their many references include:\n\nPaul's proof of the resurrection is the appearances of the risen Lord to others and himself.\nIn his First Epistle to the Corinthians he lists these appearances, first to the Apostle Peter, then to \"the Twelve,\" then to five hundred at one time, then to James (generally believed to be the member of Jesus' family with that name), then to \"all the Apostles,\" and finally to Paul himself. In contrast to the Gospels, Paul doesn't mention appearances to women such as Mary Magdalene, but does mention an appearance to a group of 500 which is not mentioned in other New Testament sources.\n\nJust before sunrise on the day after the regular weekly Sabbath three women, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome, came to anoint Jesus' body, wondering how they would be able to roll the large rock away from the tomb; but they found the rock already rolled aside and a young man in white inside; he told them that Jesus had risen, and that they should tell Peter and the disciples that he will meet them in Galilee, \"just as he told you\". Then the women \"fled from the tomb\".\n\nJust before sunrise on the day after the regular weekly Sabbath two women, Mary Magdalene and \"the other Mary\", went to visit the tomb. An angel had come down from Heaven, accompanied by an earthquake, and rolled the rock aside from the tomb. The angel waited for them and told them not to be afraid, but to tell the disciples that Jesus had risen and will meet them in Galilee. The women were joyful and set out to tell the disciples the good news, then soon afterward Jesus appeared and told them not to be afraid, and told them that He had risen and that they should tell the disciples that they will see Him in Galilee. The disciples went to Galilee, where they then saw Jesus in the flesh.\n\nThe soldiers guarding the tomb were terrified by the angel, and informed the chief priests; the priests and elders bribed them to spread a lie that the disciples stole the body, \"[a]nd this story has been widely circulated among the Jews to this very day\".\n\nJust after sunrise on the day after the Sabbath, \"the women\" came to anoint Jesus's body. They found the stone rolled away and the tomb empty. Suddenly two men in clothing glowing \"like lightning\" stood beside them and said, \"[Jesus] is not here; he has risen\". The women told the disciples, but the disciples did not believe them, except for Peter who ran to the tomb. Peter found the grave-clothes in the empty tomb and went away, wondering.\n\nThe same day Jesus appeared to two of his followers on the road to Emmaus. They failed to recognize him until he broke bread and gave thanks, and he then vanished. The two go at once to Jerusalem where they found the disciples describing Jesus' appearance to Peter. As they told their story Jesus appeared to them all. They were afraid, but he invited them to touch his body, then ate with them, and explained the prophecies which are fulfilled through him.\n\n(The Acts of the Apostles is presented as a continuation of the Gospel of Luke.)<br>\nJesus appeared to the apostles for forty days, giving many proofs that he was alive, and instructing them not to leave Jerusalem until they were baptised with the Holy Spirit.\n\nEarly on the day after the Sabbath, before sunrise, Mary Magdalene visited the tomb and found the large stone had already been rolled away. She told Peter and \"the beloved disciple\", who then ran to the tomb to only find the grave-clothes, then went home. They assumed his body had been stolen. Mary wept, then saw two angels who spoke to her, and then saw Jesus, whom she did not recognize. Jesus told her to tell the disciples that he is ascending to God, and Mary then told the disciples she had seen the Lord.\n\nThat evening Jesus appeared among them inside a locked room, and gave them power over sin and forgiveness of sin. A week later he appeared to doubting Thomas, who had not believed, but when Thomas was instructed to touch the wounds of Jesus he said, \"My Lord and my God!\" Jesus replied: \"Because you have seen me, you have believed; blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed\".\n\nIn the New Testament all four gospels conclude with an extended narrative of Jesus's arrest, trial, crucifixion, burial, and his resurrection. In each gospel these five events in the life of Jesus are treated with more intense detail than any other portion of that gospel's narrative. Scholars note that the reader receives an almost hour-by-hour account of what is happening. The death and resurrection of Jesus are treated as the climax of the story, the point to which everything else has been moving all the while.\n\nAfter his death by crucifixion, Jesus was placed in a new tomb which was discovered early Sunday morning to be empty. The New Testament does not include an account of the \"moment of resurrection\". In the Eastern Church icons do not depict that moment, but show the myrrhbearers and depict scenes of salvation. The major resurrection appearances of Jesus in the canonical gospels (and to a lesser extent other books of the New Testament) are reported to have occurred after his death, burial and resurrection, but prior to his ascension.\n\nThe synoptic gospels agree that, as the evening came after the crucifixion, Joseph of Arimathea asked Pilate for the body of Jesus, and that, after Pilate granted his request, wrapped it in linen cloth and laid it in a tomb. This was in accordance with Mosaic Law, which stated that a person hanged on a tree must not be allowed to remain there at night, but should be buried before sundown.\n\nIn Matthew, Joseph was identified as \"also a disciple of Jesus;\" in Mark he was identified as \"a respected member of the council (Sanhedrin) who was also himself looking for the Kingdom of God;\" in Luke he was identified as \"a member of the council, good and righteous, who did not consent to their purpose or deed, and who was looking for the Kingdom of God'\" and in John he was identified as \"a disciple of Jesus\".\n\nThe Gospel of Mark states that when Joseph of Arimathea asked for Jesus's body, Pilate marveled that Jesus was already dead, and he summoned the centurion to confirm this before releasing the body to Joseph. In the Gospel of John, it is recorded that Joseph of Arimathea was assisted in the burial process by Nicodemus, who brought a mixture of myrrh and aloes and included these spices in the burial clothes per Jewish customs.\n\nAlthough no single gospel gives an inclusive or definitive account of the resurrection of Jesus or his appearances, there are four points at which all four gospels converge:\n\n\nAll four gospels report that women were the ones to find the tomb of Jesus empty. According to Mark and Luke, the \"announcement\" of Jesus' resurrection was made to several women. According to Mark and John, Jesus \"appeared first\" (in and ) to Mary Magdalene.\n\nIn the gospels, especially the synoptics, women play a central role as eyewitnesses at Jesus' death, entombment, and in the discovery of the empty tomb. All three synoptics repeatedly make women the subject of verbs of seeing, clearly presenting them as eyewitnesses.\n\nAfter the tomb was found empty, the gospels indicate that Jesus made a series of appearances to the disciples. He was not immediately recognizable, according to Luke. E. P. Sanders concluded that although he could appear and disappear, he was not a ghost. Writing that Luke was very insistent about that, Sanders pointed out that \"the risen Lord could be touched, and he could eat\". He first appeared to Mary Magdalene, but she did not recognize him at first. The first two disciples to whom he appeared, walked and talked with him for quite a while without knowing who he was, (the road to Emmaus appearance). He was made known \"in the breaking of the bread\". When he first appeared to the disciples in the upper room, Thomas was not present and would not believe until a later appearance where he was invited to put his finger into the holes in Jesus' hands and side. Beside the Sea of Galilee he encouraged Peter to serve his followers. His final gospel appearance is reported as being forty days after the resurrection when he was \"carried up\" into heaven where he sits on the right hand of God. \n\nAt a later time, on the road to Damascus, Saul of Tarsus, then the arch-persecutor of the early disciples, was converted to Christ following an extraordinary vision and discourse with Jesus which left him blind for three days. (Saul later became known as Paul the Apostle.) \nHe became one of Christianity's foremost missionaries and theologians. \n\nNew Testament scholar and theologian E. P. Sanders argues that a concerted plot to foster belief in the Resurrection would probably have resulted in a more consistent story, and that some of those who were involved in the events gave their lives for their belief. Sanders offers his own hypothesis, saying \"there seems to have been a competition: 'I saw him,' 'so did I,' 'the women saw him first,' 'no, I did; they didn't see him at all,' and so on.\" In defending the historicity of the resurrection, Sanders goes so far as to state, \"That Jesus’ followers (and later Paul) had resurrection experiences is, in my judgment, a fact. What the reality was that gave rise to the experiences I do not know.\"\n\nJames D.G. Dunn writes that, whereas the apostle Paul's resurrection experience was \"visionary in character\" and \"non-physical, non-material,\" the accounts in the Gospels describe physical appearances to the other apostles and women. He contends that the \"massive realism'...of the [Gospel] appearances themselves can only be described as visionary with great difficulty—and Luke would certainly reject the description as inappropriate,\" and that the earliest conception of resurrection in the Jerusalem Christian community was physical. Conversely, Helmut Koester writes that the descriptions of the resurrection were originally epiphanies in which the disciples are called to a ministry by the risen Jesus and were interpreted as physical proof of the event at a secondary stage. He contends that the more detailed accounts of the resurrection are also secondary and do not come from historically trustworthy sources, but instead belong to the genre of the narrative types.\n\nN.T. Wright argues that the account of the empty tomb and the visionary experiences point towards the historical reality of the resurrection. He suggests that multiple lines of evidence from the New Testament and the early Christian beliefs it reflects shows that it would be highly unlikely that belief in the empty tomb would simply appear without a clear basis in the memory of early Christians. In tandem with the historically certain visionary experiences of the early disciples and apostles, Jesus' resurrection as a historical reality becomes far more plausible. Wright treats the resurrection as a historical and accessible event, rather than as a 'supernatural' or 'metaphysical' event.\n\nSummarizing its traditional analysis, the Catholic Church stated in its Catechism: \"Although the Resurrection was an historical event that could be verified by the sign of the empty tomb and by the reality of the apostles' encounters with the risen Christ, still it remains at the very heart of the mystery of faith as something that transcends and surpasses history.\"\n\nIn his book \"The First Coming: How the Kingdom of God Became Christianity\", Thomas Sheehan argues that even Paul's account of the resurrection is not meant to be taken as referring to a literal, physical rising from the grave, and that stories of a bodily resurrection did not appear until as much as half a century following the crucifixion. Instead, Sheehan believes that Paul's understanding of the resurrection, and perhaps Peter's as well, is a metaphysical one, with the stories of Jesus's (figurative) resurrection reflecting his triumphant \"entry into God's eschatological presence,\" and that Paul's reference to Jesus having risen \"on the third day\" () \"is not a chronological designation but an apocalyptic symbol for God's eschatological saving act, which strictly speaking has no date in history. Thus the 'third day' does not refer to Sunday, April 9, 30 C.E., or to any other moment in time. And as regards the 'place' where the resurrection occurred, the formula in First Corinthians does not assert that Jesus was raised from the tomb, as if the raising were a physical and therefore temporal resuscitation. Without being committed to any preternatural physics of resurrection, the phrase 'he was raised on the third day' simply expresses the belief that Jesus was rescued from the fate of utter absence from God (death) and was admitted to the saving presence of God (the eschatological future).\"\n\nAn early alternative interpretation was provided by George Bush, Professor of Hebrew at New York City University, in 1845 in a book entitled \"The Resurrection of Christ\". He reviews in detail the post-crucifixion appearances of Jesus and demonstrates how they can be better understood as visions of a spiritual or celestial body rather than as appearances of a material body using, in many cases, a careful analysis of the original Greek or Hebrew words.\n\nPeter Kirby, the founder of EarlyChristianWritings.com, states that, \"Many scholars doubt the historicity of the empty tomb.\" According to Robert M. Price, Christian \"apologists love to make the claims ... that the resurrection of Jesus is the best attested event in history\", but \"probabilistic arguments\" show that \"the resurrection is anything but an open-and-shut case\". Robert Greg Cavin, a professor of Philosophy and Religious Studies at Cypress College, states that, \"our only sources of potential evidence, the New Testament Easter traditions, fall far short of providing the kind of information necessary for establishing the resurrection hypothesis.\"\n\nBiblical scholar Géza Vermes analyzes this subject in his book, \"The Resurrection\". He concludes that there are eight possible theories to explain the resurrection of Jesus. Vermes outlines his boundaries as follows, I have discounted the two extremes that are not susceptible to rational judgment, the blind faith of the fundamentalist believer and the out-of-hand rejection of the inveterate skeptic. The fundamentalists accept the story, not as written down in the New Testament texts, but as reshaped, transmitted, and interpreted by Church tradition. They smooth down the rough edges and abstain from asking tiresome questions. The unbelievers, in turn, treat the whole Resurrection story as the figment of early Christian imagination. Most inquirers with a smattering of knowledge of the history of religions will find themselves between these two poles.\n\nFrom his analysis, Vermes presents the remaining six possibilities to explain the resurrection of Jesus account,\n\n\nVermes states that none of these six possibilities are likely to be historical.\n\nAccording to N. T. Wright in his book \"The Resurrection of the Son of God\", \"There can be no question: Paul is a firm believer in bodily resurrection. He stands with his fellow Jews against the massed ranks of pagans; with his fellow Pharisees against other Jews.\" And according to Gary Habermas, \"Many other scholars have spoken in support of a bodily notion of Jesus’ resurrection.\"\n\nHabermas also argues three facts in support of Paul's belief in a physical resurrection body. (1) Paul is a Pharisee and therefore (unlike the Sadducees) believes in a physical resurrection. (2) In Philippians 3:11 Paul says \"That I may attain to the \"ek anastasis\" (out-resurrection)\" from the dead, which according to Habermas means that \"What goes down is what comes up\". And (3) In Philippians 3:20–21 \"We look from heaven for Jesus who will change our vile \"soma\" (body) to be like unto his \"soma\" (body)\". According to Habermas, if Paul meant that we would change into a spiritual body then Paul would have used the Greek \"pneuma\" instead of \"soma\". Although others argue that a \"body\" (or \"soma\") can be a \"spirit\" \"body\", not necessarily \"flesh\", in order for it to be a body, according to Paul's own words to the Corinthians, regarding \"spiritual body\". But they say that it was a true resurrection nonetheless.\n\nFlavius Josephus (\"c\". 37–\"c\". 100), a Jew and Roman citizen who worked under the patronage of the Emperor Vespasian and his son Titus, wrote the \"Antiquities of the Jews c\". 93 which contains a passage known as the \"Testimonium Flavianum\". This passage mentions John the Baptist and Jesus as two holy men among the Jews. The text describes the death and resurrection of Jesus as follows: \"When Pilate, upon the accusation of the first men amongst us, condemned [Jesus] to be crucified, those who had formerly loved him did not cease [to follow him], for he appeared to them on the third day, living again, as the divine prophets foretold, along with a myriad of other marvelous things concerning him.\"\n\nThere are various other arguments against the historicity of the resurrection story. For example, the number of other historical figures and gods with similar death and resurrection accounts has been pointed out. However the majority consensus among biblical scholars is that the genre of the Gospels is a kind of ancient biography and not myth. Robert M. Price claims that if the resurrection could, in fact, be proven through science or historical evidence, the event would lose its miraculous qualities. In a more focused argument, Carrier asserts that, \"The surviving evidence legal and historical, suggests that Jesus was not formally buried Friday night,\" but that \"it had to have been placed Saturday night in a special public graveyard reserved for convicts. On this theory, the women who visited the tomb Sunday morning mistook its vacancy.\"\nNew Testament historian Bart D. Ehrman recognizes that \"Some scholars have argued that it's more plausible that in fact Jesus was placed in a common burial plot, which sometimes happened, or was, as many other crucified people, simply left to be eaten by scavenging animals.\" He further elaborates by saying: \"[T]he accounts are fairly unanimous in saying (the earliest accounts we have are unanimous in saying) that Jesus was in fact buried by this fellow, Joseph of Arimathea, and so it's relatively reliable that that's what happened.\" Analyzing all ancient reports of crucifixion, he later changed his mind to Jesus having been eaten by scavengers.\n\nIn Christian theology, the resurrection of Jesus is a foundation of the Christian faith. Christians, through faith in the working of God are spiritually resurrected with Jesus, and are redeemed so that they may walk in a new way of life. As Paul the Apostle stated: \"If Christ was not raised, then all our preaching is useless, and your trust in God is useless\". The death and resurrection of Jesus are the most important events in Christian Theology. They form the point in scripture where Jesus gives his ultimate demonstration that he has power over life and death, thus he has the ability to give people eternal life. Terry Miethe, a Christian philosopher at Oxford University, stated, \" 'Did Jesus rise from the dead?' is the most important question regarding the claims of the Christian faith.' \" According to the Bible, \"God raised him from the dead\", he ascended to heaven, to the \"right hand of God\", and will return again to fulfill the rest of Messianic prophecy such as the resurrection of the dead, the Last Judgment and establishment of the Kingdom of God; see also Messianism and Messianic Age.\n\nSome modern scholars use the belief of Jesus' followers in the resurrection as a point of departure for establishing the continuity of the historical Jesus and the proclamation of the early church. Carl Jung suggests that the crucifixion-resurrection account was the forceful spiritual symbol of, literally, God-as-Yahweh becoming God-as-Job.\n\nThe apostle Paul wrote that: \"If there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ has not been raised; if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain and your faith is in vain... If Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile\". Many scholars have contended that in discussion on the resurrection, the apostle Paul refers to a rabbinic style transmission of an early authoritative tradition that he received and has passed on to the church at Corinth. For this and other reasons, it is widely believed that this creed is of pre-Pauline origin. Geza Vermes writes that the creed is \"a tradition he [Paul] has inherited from his seniors in the faith concerning the death, burial and resurrection of Jesus\". The creed's ultimate origins are within the Jerusalem apostolic community having been formalised and passed on within a few years of the resurrection. Paul Barnett writes that this creedal formula, and others, were variants of the \"one basic early tradition that Paul \"received\" in Damascus from Ananias in about 34 [AD]\" after his conversion.\n\nBut Christ really has been raised from the dead. He is the first of all those who will rise. Death came because of what a man did. Rising from the dead also comes because of what a man did. Because of Adam, all people die. So because of Christ, all will be made alive.\n\nPaul's views went against the thoughts of the Greek philosophers to whom a bodily resurrection meant a new imprisonment in a corporeal body, which was what they wanted to avoid—given that for them the corporeal and the material fettered the spirit. At the same time, Paul believed that the newly resurrected body would be a heavenly body; immortal, glorified, powerful and spiritual in contrast to an earthly body, which is mortal, dishonored, weak and natural. According to theologian Peter Carnley, the resurrection of Jesus was different from the resurrection of Lazarus as: \"In the case of Lazarus, the stone was rolled away so that he could walk out... the raised Christ didn't have to have the stone rolled away, because he is transformed and can appear anywhere, at any time\".\n\nAccording to international scholar Thorwald Lorenzen, the first Easter led to a shift in emphasis from faith \"in God\" to faith \"in Christ\". Today, Lorenzen finds \"a strange silence about the resurrection in many pulpits\". He writes that among some Christians, ministers and professors, it seems to have become \"a cause for embarrassment or the topic of apologetics\". It has been argued that many Christians neglect the resurrection because of their understandable preoccupation with the Cross. However, the belief in Jesus' physical resurrection remains the single doctrine most accepted by Christians of all denominational backgrounds.\n\nIn the teachings of the apostolic Church, the resurrection was seen as heralding a new era. Forming a theology of the resurrection fell to the apostle Paul. It was not enough for Paul to simply repeat elementary teachings, but as states, \"go beyond the initial teachings about Christ and advance to maturity\". Fundamental to Pauline theology is the connection between Christ's Resurrection and redemption. Paul explained the importance of the resurrection of Jesus as the cause and basis of the hope of Christians to share a similar experience.\n\nThe teachings of the apostle Paul formed a key element of the Christian tradition and theology. If his death stands at the center of Paul's theology, so does the resurrection: unless the one died the death of \"all\", the \"all\" would have little to celebrate in the resurrection of the one. Paul taught that, just as Christians share in Jesus' death in baptism, so they will share in his resurrection for Jesus was designated the Son of God by his resurrection. In Paul states:\nBut Christ really has been raised from the dead. He is the first of all those who will rise. Death came because of what a man did. Rising from the dead also comes because of what a man did. Because of Adam, all people die. So because of Christ, all will be made alive.\nThe Apostolic Fathers, discussed the death and resurrection of Jesus, including Ignatius (50–115), Polycarp (69–155), and Justin Martyr (100–165). Following the conversion of Constantine and the liberating Edict of Milan in 313, the ecumenical councils of the 4th, 5th and 6th centuries, that focused on Christology helped shape the Christian understanding of the redemptive nature of resurrection, and influenced both the development of its iconography, and its use within Liturgy.\n\nBelief in bodily resurrection was a constant note of the Christian church in antiquity. And nowhere was it argued for more strongly than in North Africa. Saint Augustine accepted it at the time of his conversion in 386. Augustine defended resurrection, and argued that given that Christ has risen, there is resurrection of the dead. Moreover, he argued that the death and resurrection of Jesus was for the salvation of man, stating: \"to achieve each resurrection of ours, the savior paid with his single life, and he pre-enacted and presented his one and only one by way of sacrament and by way of model.\"\n\nThe 5th-century theology of Theodore of Mopsuestia provides an insight into the development of the Christian understanding of the redemptive nature of resurrection. The crucial role of the sacraments in the mediation of salvation was well accepted at the time. In Theodore's representation of the Eucharist, the sacrificial and salvific elements are combined in the \"One who saved us and delivered us by the sacrifice of Himself\". Theodore's interpretation of the Eucharistic rite is directed towards the triumph over the power of death brought about by the resurrection.\n\nThe emphasis on the salvific nature of the resurrection continued in Christian theology in the next centuries, e.g., in the 8th century Saint John of Damascus wrote that: \"... When he had freed those who were bound from the beginning of time, Christ returned again from among the dead, having opened for us the way to resurrection\" and Christian iconography of the ensuing years represented that concept.\n\nGroups such as Jews, Muslims, Bahá'ís, and other non-Christians, as well as some liberal Christians, dispute whether Jesus actually rose from the dead. Arguments over death and resurrection claims occur at many religious debates and interfaith dialogues.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá taught that Christ's resurrection was a spiritual resurrection and that the accounts in the Gospels are parables. `Abdu'l-Bahá wrote: \"We explain, therefore, the meaning of Christ's resurrection in the following way: After the martyrdom of Christ the Apostles were perplexed and dismayed. The reality of Christ, which consists in His teachings, His bounties, His perfections and His spiritual power, was hidden and concealed for two or three days after His martyrdom, and had no outward appearance or manifestation—indeed, it was as though it entirely lost. For those who truly believed were few in number and even those few were perplexed and dismayed. The Cause of Christ was thus as a lifeless body. After three days the Apostles became firm and steadfast, arose to aid the Cause of Christ, resolved to promote the divine teachings and practice their Lord's admonitions, and endeavoured to serve Him. Then did the reality of Christ become resplendent, His grace shine forth, His religion find new life, and His teachings and admonitions become manifest and visible. In other words the Cause of Christ, which was like unto a lifeless body, was quickened to life and surrounded by the grace of the Holy Spirit.\"\n\nBaha'is believe the Quran's statement: \"And because of their saying, \"We killed Messiah ʿĪsā, son of Mariam, the Messenger of Allāh\",–—but they killed him not, nor crucified him, but it appeared so to them, and those who differ therein are full of doubts\". means that Jesus's Spirit didn't die on the cross, however Baha'is uphold that Jesus was actually crucified in the flesh.\n\nSome Gnostics did not believe in a literal physical resurrection. \"For the gnostic any resurrection of the dead was excluded from the outset; the flesh or substance is destined to perish. 'There is no resurrection of the flesh, but only of the soul', say the so-called Archontics, a late gnostic group in Palestine\".\n\nMuslims believe that ʿĪsā (Jesus) son of Mariam (Mary) was a holy prophet with a divine message. The Islamic perspective is that Jesus was not crucified and will return to the world at the end of times. \"But Allāh raised him up to Himself. And Allāh is Ever All-Powerful, All-Wise\". The Quran says in Surah An-Nisa [Ch004:Verse157] \"And because of their saying, \"We killed Messiah ʿĪsā, son of Mariam, the Messenger of Allāh\",—but they killed him not, nor crucified him, but it appeared so to them, and those who differ therein are full of doubts\".\n\nChristianity split from Judaism in the 1st century AD, and the two faiths have differed in their theology since. According to the \"Toledot Yeshu\", the body of Jesus was removed in the same night by a gardener named Juda, after hearing the disciples planned to steal the body of Jesus. However, \"Toledot Yeshu\" is not considered either canonical or normative within rabbinic literature. Van Voorst states that \"Toledot Yeshu\" is a medieval document set without a fixed form which is \"most unlikely\" to have reliable information about Jesus. The Blackwell Companion to Jesus states that the \"Toledot Yeshu\" has no historical facts as such, and was perhaps created as a tool for warding off conversions to Christianity.\n\nThe resurrection of Jesus has long been central to Christian faith and appears within diverse elements of the Christian tradition, from feasts to artistic depictions to religious relics. In Christian teachings, the sacraments derive their saving power from the passion and resurrection of Christ, upon which the salvation of the world entirely depends.\n\nAn example of the interweaving of the teachings on the resurrection with Christian relics is the application of the concept of \"miraculous image formation\" at the moment of resurrection to the Shroud of Turin. Christian authors have stated the belief that the body around whom the shroud was wrapped was not merely human, but divine, and that the image on the shroud was miraculously produced at the moment of resurrection. Quoting Pope Paul VI's statement that the shroud is \"the wonderful document of His Passion, Death and Resurrection, written for us in letters of blood\" author Antonio Cassanelli argues that the shroud is a deliberate divine record of the five stages of the Passion of Christ, created at the moment of resurrection.\n\nEaster, the preeminent feast that celebrates the resurrection of Jesus, is clearly the earliest Christian festival. Since the earliest Christian times, it has focused on the redemptive act of God in the death and resurrection of Christ.\n\nEaster is linked to the Passover and Exodus from Egypt recorded in the Old Testament through the Last Supper and crucifixion that preceded the resurrection. According to the New Testament, Jesus gave the Passover meal a new meaning, as he prepared himself and his disciples for his death in the upper room during the Last Supper. He identified the loaf of bread and cup of wine as his body soon to be sacrificed and his blood soon to be shed. states, \"Get rid of the old yeast that you may be a new batch without yeast—as you really are. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed\"; this refers to the Passover requirement to have no yeast in the house and to the allegory of Jesus as the Paschal lamb.\n\nIn the Catacombs of Rome, artists indirectly hinted at the resurrection by using images from the Old Testament such as the fiery furnace and Daniel in the Lion's den. Depictions prior to the 7th century generally showed secondary events such as the Myrrhbearers at the tomb of Jesus to convey the concept of the resurrection. An early symbol of the resurrection was the wreathed Chi Rho (Greek letters representing the word \"Khristos\" or \"Christ\"), whose origin traces to the victory of emperor Constantine I at the Battle of the Milvian Bridge in 312, which he attributed to the use of a cross on the shields of his soldiers. Constantine used the Chi Rho on his standard and his coins showed a labarum with the Chi Rho killing a serpent.\n\nThe use of a wreath around the Chi Rho symbolizes the victory of the resurrection over death, and is an early visual representation of the connection between the Crucifixion of Jesus and his triumphal resurrection, as seen in the 4th-century sarcophagus of Domitilla in Rome. Here, in the wreathed Chi Rho the death and Resurrection of Christ are shown as inseparable, and the Resurrection is not merely a happy ending tucked at the end of the life of Christ on earth. Given the use of similar symbols on the Roman military banner, this depiction also conveyed another victory, namely that of the Christian faith: the Roman soldiers who had once arrested Jesus and marched him to Calvary now walked under the banner of a resurrected Christ.\n\nThe cosmic significance of the resurrection in Western theology goes back to Saint Ambrose, who in the 4th century said that \"The universe rose again in Him, the heaven rose again in Him, the earth rose again in Him, for there shall be a new heaven and a new earth\". This theme developed gradually in the West, later than in the East where the resurrection had been linked from an earlier date to redemption and the renewal and rebirth of the whole world. In art this was symbolized by combining the depictions of the resurrection with the Harrowing of Hell in icons and paintings. A good example is from the Chora Church in Istanbul, where John the Baptist, Solomon and other figures are also present, depicting that Christ was not alone in the resurrection. The depiction sequence at the 10th-century Hosios Loukas shows Christ as he pulls Adam from his tomb, followed by Eve, signifying the salvation of humanity after the resurrection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44440877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44440877", "title": "Robert Stewart Munn", "text": "Robert Stewart Munn\n\nRobert Stewart Munn (August 23, 1829 – December 17, 1894) was a Scottish-born merchant and politician in Newfoundland. He represented Harbour Grace in the Newfoundland House of Assembly as a Reform Party member from 1889 until his death in 1894.\n\nThe son of Dugald Munn, a banker, and Elizabeth Stewart, he was born in Bute and came to Newfoundland in 1851 to join the firm of Punton and Munn, which was then owned by his uncle John Munn. In 1862, Munn became manager of the firm's operation in Harbour Grace. In the same year, he married Elizabeth Munden. In 1872, Munn and his cousin William Punton Munn became partners in the business, now known as John Munn and Company. When William went to England due to poor health in 1881, Munn became the sole manager. \n\nHe was elected to the Newfoundland assembly in 1889 and reelected in 1893.\n\nA decline in the price of fish had resulted in accumulating debt for John Munn and Company during the 1890s. The Union Bank in St. John's, which held most of that debt, failed in 1894.\n\nMunn died of pleurisy in Harbour Grace at the age of 65. His estate was declared insolvent and the company went bankrupt soon afterwards. \n"}
{"id": "4314312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4314312", "title": "Roy Bailey (folk singer)", "text": "Roy Bailey (folk singer)\n\nRoy Bailey, (20 October 1935 – 20 November 2018) was an English socialist folk singer. Colin Irwin from the music magazine \"Mojo\" said Bailey represented \"the very soul of folk's working class ideals... a triumphal homage to the grass roots folk scene as a radical alternative to the mainstream music industry.\"\n\nBailey began his musical career in a skiffle band in 1958, and later joined folk supergroup the Three City Four featuring Leon Rosselson, as a replacement for Martin Carthy. His first solo album was released in 1971.\n\nHe performed a number of songs by the American singer-songwriter Si Kahn and was also renowned as a singer of children's songs, often using material written by his old partner Leon Rosselson. \"Oats & Beans & Kangaroos\" is an album of children's songs performed by Roy & Val Bailey with Leon Rosselson.\n\nBailey worked with Robb Johnson and others on the award-winning \"Gentle Men\" album, released in 1997 and re-recorded and released in 2013.\n\nIn 2003, Bailey and Tony Benn were awarded \"Best Live Act\" at the BBC Radio 2 Folk Awards for their programme \"Writing on the Wall\", later an album. Tony Benn cited Roy Bailey as \"the greatest socialist folk singer of his generation.\"\n\nIn the 2000 Honours List, he received the MBE for Services to Folk Music. On 23 August 2006, he returned the MBE in protest at the British government's foreign policy with regard to Lebanon and the Palestinian territories. By doing so he joined the list of people who have declined a British honour.\n\nHe contributed vocals to Chumbawamba's 2008 album \"The Boy Bands Have Won\", on the track \"Word Bomber\", a song about the London suicide attacks in 2005. He also joined the band on stage to sing the song, on their farewell Leeds show in October 2012.\n\nIn 2016, Roy released his first live album, Live At Towersey Festival 2015, which was recorded in secret at the festival and featured guest appearances from Martin Simpson and Andy Cutting. The album contained songs written by Si Kahn, Bob Dylan, Tom Waits, John Tams, Robb Johnson and others. Roy appeared at the very first Towersey Festival in 1965 and his now established Monday afternoon concert regularly draws a crowd of around 1,000.\n\nRoy Bailey was an Emeritus Professor of Social Studies at Sheffield Hallam University. He was also the patron of Towersey Village Festival, Shepley Spring Festival and the Music on the Marr Festival based in the village of Castle Carrock, Cumbria. He was the father-in-law of Martin Simpson, a singer and guitarist, whose wife Kit is Bailey's daughter.\n\nHaving struggled with heart failure for over 30 years, Bailey died on 20 November 2018 in St Luke's Hospice, Sheffield.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17329993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17329993", "title": "Sarah Maria Cornell", "text": "Sarah Maria Cornell\n\nSarah Maria Cornell (May 3, 1803 – December 20, 1832) was a young Fall River mill worker whose corpse was found hanging from a stackpole on the farm of John Durfee in nearby Tiverton, Rhode Island on December 21, 1832. Her death was at first thought to be a suicide. After an autopsy, it was discovered she was pregnant. Methodist minister Ephraim K. Avery would be suspected of her pregnancy and tried for her murder, in a trial what would engage local industrialists against the New England Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church. Although Avery would be acquitted for the murder, he was forever scorned in the eyes of the public.\n\nSarah Maria Cornell was born on May 3, 1803, likely in Rupert, Vermont to James and Lucretia (Leffingwell) Cornell. Lucretia had been born well-off in an old Puritan family, the daughter of a Connecticut merchant and paper maker. However she had been disowned by her father after she married James Cornell, who had worked in his paper mill, and of whom he did not approve. James abandoned the family when Sarah was a baby, forcing her mother to give up her older sister and brother to relatives as she was financially unable to care for three children. Sarah remained with her mother to age eleven when she moved in with her aunt Joanna, in Norwich, Connecticut. Later in her teens, she apprenticed as a tailor. In 1820 she moved to nearby Bozrahville and worked as a tailor for about two years.\n\nAround 1822 or 1823 Sarah went to work at a cotton mill in Killingly, Connecticut. In the years that followed, she would move often and work at various mills in Rhode Island and Connecticut, including stints in North Providence, Jewett City, Slatersville. During this period, Sarah often got into trouble, including charges of theft and other \"inappropriate\" acts for a young single woman of that time.\n\nHowever, during her time at Slatersville between 1823 and 1826, Sarah had a transformation to Methodism, and sought to change her ways. But in February 1826, the mill at Slatersville burned to the ground and she was forced to seek employment elsewhere. She first moved to the nearby village of Branch Factory and later to Mendon Mills (later called Millville, Massachusetts), several miles away.\n\nIn early 1827, Sarah moved again to find mill work in Dedham, Massachusetts. However, after only a few weeks there she moved again to Dorchester, Massachusetts, where she was able to reconnect with the Methodists. In May 1828, she moved to the booming mill town of Lowell, Massachusetts where she worked as a weaver until about the end of 1829. It was during this period in Lowell that she met a newly arrived Methodist minister, Ephraim Kingsbury Avery.\n\nIn September 1830, Sarah moved to Dover, New Hampshire. Only two months later she moved again to Somersworth, New Hampshire. During the summer of 1831 she left New Hampshire for Waltham, Massachusetts but only stayed there a few weeks. She then moved to Taunton, Massachusetts where she found employment. In May 1832 she left Taunton for Woodstock, Connecticut where she was able to find work again as a tailor in Grindall Rawson's shop. It was at a Methodist Camp Meeting in Thompson, Connecticut at the end of August 1832 that Sarah once again crossed paths with Reverend Avery. By this time, Avery had become the minister in Bristol, Rhode Island. It is alleged that during the Thompson Camp meeting that Avery seduced Sarah Cornell.\n\nIn October 1832, Sarah moved to Fall River where she found lodging at the home of Elija Cole. By this time she was showing clear signs of pregnancy, and sought advice from a local doctor in Fall River. By early December 1832, she moved to the Hathaway residence on Spring Street.\n\nThe body of Sarah was identified by her minister soon after it was removed from where it was found by farmer John Durfee on his farm on the morning of December 21, 1832. Later discovered among her personal effects at the Hathaway residence was a note written by Cornell and dated the same day as her death: \n\"If I should be missing, enquire of the Rev. Mr. Avery of Bristol, he will know where I am.\"\n\nOther suspicious and incriminating letters were also discovered, as well as a conversation she had had with a doctor indicating the married Avery was the father of her unborn child. A coroner's jury was convened in Tiverton before any autopsy had been performed. This jury found that Cornell had \"committed suicide by hanging herself upon a stake ... and was influenced to commit said crime by the wicked conduct of a married man.\"\n\nAfter the autopsy was performed, it was discovered that Cornell had been four months pregnant at the time of her death. A second coroner's jury was convened, this time in Bristol, Rhode Island. This jury overruled the earlier finding of suicide and accused Ephraim Kingsbury Avery, a married Methodist minister, as the \"principal or accessory\" in her death. Avery was quickly arrested on a charge of murder, but just as quickly set free on his own recognizance.\n\nCornell's pregnancy led another Methodist minister to reject the responsibility of burying her the second time (she already once been exhumed for autopsy). He claimed that she had only been a \"probationary\" member of his congregation. Responsibility for her burial was assumed by the Fall River Congregationalists, and Cornell was buried as an indigent, on Christmas Eve. That night, in Fall River, money was raised and two committees pledged to assist the officials of Tiverton with the murder investigation. The next day, a steamship was chartered to take one hundred men from Fall River to Bristol. They surrounded Avery's home and demanded he come out. Avery declined, but did send a friend outside to try to placate the crowd. The men eventually left when the steamship signaled its return to Fall River.\n\nIn Bristol, an inquest was convened, in which two Justices of the Peace found there to be insufficient evidence to try Avery for the crime of murder. The people of Fall River were outraged, and there were rumors that one of the justices was a Methodist, and was looking to quell the scandal. The deputy sheriff of Fall River, Harvey Harnden, obtained from a Rhode Island superior court judge a warrant for Avery's arrest. When a Rhode Island sheriff went to serve it, he discovered that Avery had already fled.\n\nOn January 20, 1833, Harnden tracked Avery to Rindge, New Hampshire. Avery later claimed he had fled because he feared for his life, particularly at the hands of the mob that had surrounded his house. Harnden extradited Avery to Newport, Rhode Island, where Avery was put in jail. On March 8, 1833, Avery was indicted for murder by a Newport County grand jury. He pleaded \"not guilty\".\n\nThe trial began in Newport, Rhode Island on May 6, 1833, and was heard by the Supreme Judicial Council. The lawyers for the prosecution were Rhode Island Attorney General Albert C. Greene and former attorney general Dutee Jerauld Pearce. The six lawyers for the defense, hired by the Methodist Church, were led by former United States Senator and New Hampshire Attorney General Jeremiah Mason.\n\nThe trial lasted 27 days. Under Rhode Island law at the time, defendants in capital cases were not permitted to offer testimony in their own defense, so Avery did not get the opportunity to speak. However, both the prosecution and the defense called a large number of witnesses to testify, 68 for the prosecution, and 128 for the defense.\n\nAlthough the defense maintained that Avery had not been present when the murder occurred, the larger part of the defense strategy was to call into question Sarah Cornell's morals. The defense characterized her as \"utterly abandoned, unprincipled, profligate,\" and brought forth many witnesses to testify to her promiscuity, suicidal ideation and mental instability. Much was made of how Cornell had been cast out of the Methodist Church for fornication.\n\nThe prosecution largely attempted to portray the Methodist clergy as a dangerous, almost secret society, willing to defend their minister and the good name of their church at any cost.\n\nA medical debate centered around whether the unborn child was in fact conceived in August, although Puritan standards of propriety regarding the female body sometimes made it difficult to elicit factual information. One female witness, when questioned as to the state of Cornell's body, absolutely refused to answer, saying, \"I never heard such questions asked of nobody.\"\n\nOn June 2, 1833, after deliberating for 16 hours, the jury found Ephraim Kingsbury Avery \"not guilty\". The minister was set free and returned to his position in the Methodist Church, but the public opinion was that Avery had been wrongfully acquitted. Rallies hanged or burned effigies of Avery, and he himself was once almost lynched in Boston. A great deal of anger was also directed at the Methodist Church. To ease tensions, the church's New England Conference convened a trial of its own, chaired by Wilbur Fisk, in which Avery was again acquitted. This did little, if anything, to quell public antipathy toward Avery or the church.\n\nAvery later embarked on a speaking tour to vindicate himself in the eyes of the public, but his efforts were largely unsuccessful. In 1836, Avery left the Methodist ministry, and took his family first to Connecticut, then upstate New York. They ultimately settled in Ohio, where he lived out the rest of his days as a farmer. Avery also wrote a pamphlet called \"The correct, full and impartial report of the trial of Rev. Ephraim K. Avery\". He died on October 23, 1869, and was buried in South Pittsfield Cemetery, Lorain County, Ohio.\n\nSarah's body was originally buried on the farm near where her body was found. However, years later it was moved to Plot 2733 on Whitethorn Path at Oak Grove Cemetery (Fall River, Massachusetts) when the farm became South Park.\n\nRaven, Rory (2009). Wicked Conduct: The Minister, the Mill Girl, and the Murder That Captivated Old Rhode Island. Charleston, SC: [History Press]. pp. 128. .\n"}
{"id": "6027951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6027951", "title": "Shimanagashi", "text": "Shimanagashi\n\nShimanagashi () is a form of punishment where people are banished to small islands. It was created during the feudal period in Japan, where political offenders were often sent away and confined on the island of Sado in the Sea of Japan.\n"}
{"id": "4958827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4958827", "title": "Stochastic diffusion search", "text": "Stochastic diffusion search\n\nStochastic diffusion search (SDS) was first described in 1989 as a population-based, pattern-matching algorithm [Bishop, 1989]. It belongs to a family of swarm intelligence and naturally inspired search and optimisation algorithms which includes ant colony optimization, particle swarm optimization and genetic algorithms; as such SDS was the first Swarm Intelligence metaheuristic. Unlike stigmergetic communication employed in ant colony optimization, which is based on modification of the physical properties of a simulated environment, SDS uses a form of direct (one-to-one) communication between the agents similar to the tandem calling mechanism employed by one species of ants, \"Leptothorax acervorum\".\n\nIn SDS agents perform cheap, partial evaluations of a hypothesis (a candidate solution to the search problem). They then share information about hypotheses (diffusion of information) through direct one-to-one communication. As a result of the diffusion mechanism, high-quality solutions can be identified from clusters of agents with the same hypothesis. The operation of SDS is most easily understood by means of a simple analogy – The Restaurant Game.\n\nA group of delegates attends a long conference in an unfamiliar town. Every night each delegate must find somewhere to dine. There is a large choice of restaurants, each of which offers a large variety of meals. The problem the group faces is to find the best restaurant, that is the restaurant where the maximum number of delegates would enjoy dining. Even a parallel exhaustive search through the restaurant and meal combinations would take too long to accomplish. To solve the problem delegates decide to employ a stochastic diffusion search.\n\nEach delegate acts as an agent maintaining a hypothesis identifying the best restaurant in town. Each night each delegate tests his hypothesis by dining there and randomly selecting one of the meals on offer. The next morning at breakfast every delegate who did not enjoy his meal the previous night, asks one randomly selected colleague to share his dinner impressions.\nIf the experience was good, he also adopts this restaurant as his choice. Otherwise he simply selects another restaurant at random from those listed in `Yellow Pages'. Using this strategy it is found that very rapidly significant number of\ndelegates congregate around the 'best' restaurant in town.\n\nSDS has been applied to diverse problems such as text search [Bishop, 1989], object recognition [Bishop, 1992], feature tracking [Grech-Cini, 1993], mobile robot self-localisation [Beattie, 1998] and site selection for wireless networks [Whitaker, 2002].\n\nUnlike many Nature Inspired Search techniques there is a comprehensive mathematical framework describing the behaviour of SDS. Analysis of SDS has investigated its global optimality and convergence [Nasuto, 1998], linear time complexity [Nasuto et al., 1999], robustness, [Myatt, 2004] and resource allocation [Nasuto, 1999] under a variety of search conditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "23266854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23266854", "title": "The House Next Door (2006 film)", "text": "The House Next Door (2006 film)\n\nThe House Next Door is a 2006 Lifetime Television film, directed by Jeff Woolnough and starring Mark-Paul Gosselaar, Lara Flynn Boyle and Colin Ferguson. The film is based on the novel of the same name by Anne Rivers Siddons\nThe peaceful and happy life of Walker and Col Kennedy is interrupted when Kim, a brilliant and attractive male architect, builds a dream house next to theirs. All the people who move into the house turn evil or end up having \"accidents\" and unexplainable deaths. They realize that the house targets their fears and feeds off of them until it drives them insane. In the end, the Kennedys succeed in destroying the house, killing the architect in the process. In the final scene another couple is seen eyeing a new house identical to the old one. This is the greatest departure from the novel, in which the Kennedys kill the architect before trying to destroy the house – in the epilogue it is revealed that they themselves lost their lives and the house is still intact.\n\n\nThe film premiered on 30 October 2006 at Lifetime in the United States and was released of DVD in Germany on 29 May 2007.\n\nNiamh Wilson was nominated as Best Supporting Actress for a Young Artist Award.\n\n\"The House Next Door\" was seen as \"uninspired\" by critics. It currently holds a 27% \"rotten\" rating on RottenTomatoes.com\n"}
{"id": "3384239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3384239", "title": "The Patriot (1998 film)", "text": "The Patriot (1998 film)\n\nThe Patriot is a 1998 American action drama film loosely based on the novel \"The Last Canadian\" by William C. Heine. The film stars Steven Seagal and is directed by Dean Semler. The plot involves an American patriot who has to foil the plot of a militia to release a deadly virus. It is Seagal's first direct-to-video film.\n\nNear the town of Ennis, Montana, local doctor and former government research immunologist Wesley McClaren (Steven Seagal) who has an interest in herbal medicine and is also a weapons and self-defense expert, is called to a hospital when people start dying from an unknown but very deadly disease. He determines that the cause is a highly dangerous airborne virus and calls in a Biological Response team, who seal off the town while doctors start treating sufferers with a vaccine. Unfortunately for them, several have already died.\n\nThe source of the virus is traced to a local self-styled rebel militia leader, Floyd Chisholm (Gailard Sartain), who has given himself up after a long siege and has been arrested on weapons charges. In court, having ingested the virus himself (believing that he also possesses the vaccine) he spits at the judge, and starts the rapid spread of the disease.\n\nFloyd's militia followers, who have been allowed to go free, attack the prison and rescue Floyd. They then proceed to invade and besiege the hospital, with much loss of life, and take medical personnel hostage including Wesley and his daughter Holly (Camilla Belle). But too late, they realize that the vaccine they were seeking at the hospital is the same as the one they possess which only delays the effect of the deadly virus.\nWorking at gunpoint, Wesley takes a sample of Holly's blood; it shows that Holly has been infected, but somehow her body is fighting it off. Wesley and Holly contrive to escape and travel to a farm where Holly's grandfather lives. Wesley takes a blood sample from his friend Dr. Ann White Cloud (Whitney Yellow Robe), and realizes that her body is also fighting off the infection.\n\nWesley and Ann gain access to a secret underground laboratory where Wesley used to work, where they hope to come up with a cure. Wesley finds out why Ann and Holly are not being affected by the virus: they have been drinking tea made with a specific wild herb that is known to Native American healers.\n\nBack at the hospital, Wesley and Holly are captured by the militia, but he manages to kill Floyd and disable the other soldiers. As soon as the biological protection team learn of the cure, they go out and pick all the flowers they can find and drop them by helicopter over the town, telling the people to boil them and drink the liquid.\n\n\nThe film, directed by academy-award-winning cinematographer Dean Semler, was reportedly originally intended as a theatrical release, but was ultimately released direct-to-video, the first Seagal film to skip theaters entirely. It was shot over eight weeks in Ennis and Virginia City, Montana, and for three days on the campus of Montana State University. Filming was briefly halted to remove snow from the ground during shooting in Virginia City, to maintain continuity.\n\nThe screenplay is credited to M. Sussman and John Kingswell, assumed to be pseudonyms due to the complete lack of information on either writer (neither has any other film credit of any kind). Several writers, including David Ayer and Paul Mones were rumored to be working on the script prior to its release; Mones was ultimately credited as a producer. Though the movie is credited as an adaptation of William C. Heine's novel \"The Last Canadian\", it shares virtually no similarities with the novel except the idea of a deadly virus. No character names, events, or even locations appear in both the book and the film.\n\nThe film is Seagal's only effort to date in which he co-stars with his daughter, actress Ayako Fujitani, and is notable for an extremely low amount of action scenes compared to Seagal's other work.\n\nThe film has received generally negative reviews, with critics frequently singling out the extremely low number of action sequences. David Nusair of Reel Film Reviews called it \"dull\" and criticized its lack of action (he claims, \"Out of a 90 minute movie, there's maybe 10 minutes of actual Seagal hand-to-hand combat\") and unwelcome political messages. \"Seagalogy\" author Vern argues that \"in many ways \"The Patriot\" is an admirable effort,\" noting \"The production values and acting are better than some of Seagal's subsequent movies,\" but going on to point out that due to its \"ridiculously low action quotient it is a least-favorite of many Seagal fans.\" As of 2 October 2014, the film has a 22% \"rotten\" critics rating on Rotten Tomatoes (based on 9 reviews).\n"}
{"id": "21377635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21377635", "title": "Valère Guillet", "text": "Valère Guillet\n\nValère Guillet (1796 – February 26, 1881) was a notary and political figure in colonial Quebec. He represented Saint-Maurice in the Legislative Assembly of Lower Canada from 1830 to 1836 as a supporter of the Parti patriote.\n\nHe was born in Batiscan, Lower Canada, the son of Jean-Baptiste Guillet and Marguerite Langlois. He was educated at the Séminaire de Nicolet, studied law with his brother Louis and was admitted to practice as a notary in 1825. Guillet practiced in Saint-Pierre-les-Becquets, Yamachiche and Trois-Rivières. He supported the Ninety-Two Resolutions. Guillet was coroner for Trois-Rivières district from 1836 to 1878. From 1847 to 1862, he was secretary for the Chambre des notaires for Trois-Rivières and Saint-François districts; Guillet was president from 1862 to 1868. He died at Trois-Rivières at the age of 84.\n\nHis sister Marie married Alexis Rivard, another member of the legislative assembly.\n"}
{"id": "25871616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25871616", "title": "Variety Obituaries", "text": "Variety Obituaries\n\nVariety Obituaries is a 15-volume series with facsimile reprints of the full text of every obituary published by the entertainment trade magazine \"Variety\" from 1905 to 1994. The first eleven volumes were published in 1988 by Garland Publishing, which subsequently became part of Routledge.\n\nInformation for each deceased person can include the following:\n\nVolume 11 is the alphabetical index for 1905 to 1986. It contains approximately 120,000 names. There are multiple entries for some people, so 100,000 different people is a realistic estimate.\n\nEach of the four volumes after 1986 has its own index.\n\nCelebrities are indexed under their birth names also. For example, Cary Grant is also indexed as “Leach, Alexander Archibald”. Clara Bow is also indexed by her popular nickname “The It Girl”. The names of living celebrities appear in the index when there are obituaries for their spouses and relatives; for example, Bob Hope died after the reprints were discontinued, but immediately beneath his indexed name are the obituary references of nine of his relatives, as well as his masseur and his business agent.\n\nNon-human celebrities also appear in the index, such as Champion (Gene Autry’s horse) and Bonzo the chimpanzee.\n\nExcerpt from a review in \"Library Journal\" by John Smothers: \n"}
{"id": "20707347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20707347", "title": "Vibrion", "text": "Vibrion\n\nVibrion may also refer to: the singular form of \"vibrio\", a genus of anaerobic bacteria with a comma-like shape.\nVibrion is an antiquated term for microorganisms, especially pathogenic ones; see Germ theory of disease. The term was specifically used in reference to motile microorganisms, and the name of the \"Vibrio\" genus derives from this term. The term is closely tied to the history of the study of cholera. It was used in biological literature between the late 19th century and the 1920s.\n\nBacteria with the same characteristics as those of the \"Vibrio\" genus were discovered independently multiple times, but only later findings were able to connect these bacteria with cholera, tetanus, and other diseases.\nLeeuwenhoek may have observed \"Vibrio\" bacteria after his discovery of “animalcules” described in his letters to the Royal Society. He described microorganisms with the same appearances and behaviors as bacteria belonging to the \"Vibrio\" genus. Bacteria of this genus were later anonymously described as “Capillary Eels” in the 1703 issue of \"Philosophical Transactions\" by a “Sir C. H.” because of their thin, wormlike appearance. Additionally, the naturalist O. F. Müller documented eight species of the \"Vibrio\" genus in his work on infusoria.\n\nIn 1854, the Italian anatomist Filippo Pacini coined the term \"vibrions\" in a paper he published during the third Cholera pandemic arguing that they were the main agents causing cholera. He drew his conclusion from his observations of the thin, wormlike bacteria present in the blood and stool of cholera patients, especially characteristic of late-stage infections. The \"Vibrio cholerae\" identified by Pacini were rediscovered by Robert Koch in 1884, who was unaware of Pacini's work; he called them “Comma Bacillus” and received worldwide fame as a result of his discovery.\n\nThe term “vibrion” was subsequently used by Louis Pasteur in 1861 in naming a bacterium he discovered, \"Vibryon butyrique\", which was capable of surviving in an environment without oxygen. This bacterium was then identified as the same bacterium which had been discovered by two other scientists and renamed \"Clostridium butyricum\".\n\nBy the 20th century \"vibrion\" came to be used as a general term for motile microorganisms with an elongated, wormlike shape associated with pathogenic illnesses such as cholera and tetanus. It was also incorporated in the names created for several bacteria by microbiologists at the time, such as in the name \"Vibrion septique\" from a 1922 paper in \"The\" \"Journal of Medical Research.\" In an issue of the journal \"Modern Medicine\" from 1893, the term \"cholera vibrion\" is used to refer to \"Vibrio cholerae\". In the same journal from 1893, the term \"vibrion\" is said to be dated, which highlights the brevity of the time period in which the word was used.\n\nThe term \"vibrion\" was out of use by the late 1920s and does not appear on its own in subsequent biological literature. This is largely due to the more extensive development of bacterial taxonomy towards the turn of the 19th century, which gave bacteriologists a more specific way to classify microorganisms. The term \"vibrion\" was adapted into the name of the \"Vibrio\" prokaryotic genus.\n"}
{"id": "42296094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42296094", "title": "Wilhelm Mautner", "text": "Wilhelm Mautner\n\nWilhelm Mautner (1889-1944) was born in Vienna. He was an Austrian-German economist and attorney-in-fact of the Rotterdamse Bank who spent a part of his life in the Netherlands. Mautner was born Jewish. He was also an art collector.\n\nAfter a short professional career in banking and industry, he studied economics in Paris, Vienna and Tübingen, where he finished his studies and wrote a thesis about Bolshevism in 1919. In the same year, he moved to the Netherlands.\n\nFrom 1929 until 1944 he lived in Amsterdam. Mautner never married and had no children. On 22 July 1941, he drew up a will in which he appointed his brother in Ohio in the United States as his sole heir. During the war Mautner attempted unsuccessfully to escape from the Nazi regime. Mautner tried to get an exit visa for the United States with the help of his brother, who lived in New York. In December 1943 Mautner was removed from his home in Amsterdam during a raid and transported to Westerbork transit camp and from there to Theresienstadt concentration camp. Mautner died on or around 29 September 1944 in Auschwitz concentration camp.\n\nMautner collected paintings. His collection also included some Dutch old masters. He continued purchasing works of art during the war. At that time he was in frequent contact with Max Jakob Friedlander. From 1941, he was no longer able to do so in his own name because of his Jewish origins. He gave works of art to various people for safekeeping. In February 1942, Mautner was ordered to move to Tugelaweg in Amsterdam as a result of the forced relocation of Jews. He sent 15 paintings for safe-keeping with the collector Dr J. van Dongen on the city's Museumplein. The latter kept all of these items until after the war. Other works, including a Brueghel and a Timmermann, were sold under duress in 1943 by Mautner. Various of Mautner's works of art and other possessions were recovered for his heirs, by custodians of his estate after the war. The 15 paintings in J.A. van Dongen's custody were probably bought by van Dongen with the consent of Mautner's heirs.\nThree of the paintings that Mautner sold under duress are:\n\nThe latter two were acquired by the Sonderauftrag Linz and returned to the Netherlands after the war, where they became part of the NK-Collection of the Stichting Nederlands Kunstbezit.\n\nHe also sold 12 paintings, primarily 19th century, to W. Kadzik from Vienna. Mautner could not act as a seller, due to his Jewish origin, so he asked his friend Hans Alfred Wetzlar to fulfill the formalities. It is unknown where the works are.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5665897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5665897", "title": "World Humanist Day", "text": "World Humanist Day\n\nWorld Humanist Day is a Humanist holiday celebrated annually around the world on the June solstice, which usually falls on June 21. According to the International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU), the day is a way of spreading awareness of Humanism as a philosophical life stance and means to effect change in the world. It is also seen as a time for Humanists to gather socially and promote the positive values of Humanism.\n\nThe holiday developed during the 1980s as several chapters of the American Humanist Association (AHA) began to celebrate it. At the time, the date on which it was celebrated varied from chapter to chapter, with selections such as the founding date of the IHEU, or other significant dates. From the late 1980s to the early 1990s, the AHA and IHEU passed resolutions declaring World Humanist Day to be on the northern summer solstice.\n\nThe manner in which World Humanist Day is celebrated varies considerably among local Humanist groups, reflecting the individuality and non-dogmatism of Humanism as a whole. Whilst the event might be a simple gathering, such as a dinner or picnic, with ample time for both socialising and reflection, the method of celebration is down to the individual Humanists. Some groups actually develop intricate social rituals, music, and proceedings which highlight the metaphoric symbolism of the solstice and the light (knowledge) which brings us out of darkness (ignorance).\n\nWorld Humanist Day is a holiday in many Humanist organizations; many of them recognize it and plan events and activities around the holiday. International Humanist and Ethical Union lists several different ways that national and local Humanist groups celebrate World Humanist Day. For example, the broadcast short films about World Humanist Day on Dutch TV in 2012. In 2013, the first National Humanist Day will be organized in The Netherlands. The Humanist Association of Ireland held poetry readings in the park to celebrate the day. The Humanists of Florida Association has recommended groups hold \"Introduction to Humanism\" classes on World Humanist Day.\n\n\n"}
