{"id": "52935555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52935555", "title": "'the other' Jan van Kessel", "text": "'the other' Jan van Kessel\n\nJan van Kessel or the other Jan van Kessel (c. 1620, Antwerp – in or after 1661, Amsterdam (?)) was a Flemish painter of still lifes of fruits, hunting pieces and flowers. After training in Antwerp he moved to the Dutch Republic where he is recorded as operating a studio in Amsterdam.\n\nVery little information is available about the life of Jan van Kessel. He was born in Antwerp some time between 1615 and 1625. He trained with the history painter Simon de Vos. He was admitted as a master in the Antwerp Guild of St Luke in the Guild year 1644-1645, the same year as Jan van Kessel the Elder with whom he is often confused.\n\nHe is recorded in 1649 in Amsterdam, where he received in September 1649 two assistants: Jan Baptist Walvis and Gerrit Cornelisz.\n\nHis last recorded work dates from 1661 and he is believed to have died in or after 1661.\n\n'the other' Jan van Kessel was a still life specialist who painted still lifes of fruits, hunting pieces and flowers. About 30 works have been attributed to Jan van Kessel. Attribution of work to 'the other' Jan van Kessel has been difficult due to confusion with other artists with a similar name all active around the same time. In addition to the still life painter Jan van Kessel the Elder, there was another Antwerp painter referred to as Jan van Kessel the Younger (the son of Jan van Kessel the Elder) who is believed to have painted still lifes, while in Amsterdam there was a Jan van Kessel known as a landscape painter. His work has often been confused with that of his better known namesake and contemporary, Jan van Kessel the Elder as well as that of Jan van Kessel the Younger. 'the other' Jan van Kessel and Jan van Kessel the Elder have a distinctive manner of signing.\n\nThere are clear stylistic differences between the work of 'the other' Jan van Kessel and Jan van Kessel the Elder. Art historian K. Ertz considers 'the other' Jan van Kessel as not inferior to Jan van Kessel the Elder, and even believes him to eclipse his more famous namesake in his masterpiece . This work is in the collection of the Fitzwilliam Museum where it is still attributed to Jan van Kessel the Elder.\n"}
{"id": "19203515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19203515", "title": "2008 Summer Paralympics national flag bearers", "text": "2008 Summer Paralympics national flag bearers\n\nDuring the Parade of Nations at the opening ceremony of the 2008 Summer Paralympic Games, athletes from each participating country paraded in the stadium, preceded by their flag. The flag was borne by a sportsperson from that country chosen either by the National Paralympic Committee or by the athletes themselves to represent their country. It is considered a great honour to bear the country's flag in the Parade of Nations.\n\nPer tradition, the host country, in this case the People's Republic of China, marched last however contrary to tradition in the Olympic Games the national team of Greece did not enter first. All other nations marched in name order in the language of the host nation, which in this case is the Chinese language. As Chinese is written in characters and not letters, the order of the teams' entry was determined by the number of strokes in the first character of their respective countries' Simplified Chinese names. Countries with the same number of strokes in the first character are sorted by those of the next character. This made Guinea (几内亚) the first country to enter, as it takes two strokes to write the first character in the country's name (几), and Zambia (赞比亚) last-but-one, ahead of China.\n\nThe following is a list of each country's flag bearer. The list is sorted in Latin alphabetical order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13809905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13809905", "title": "Al-Tikriti", "text": "Al-Tikriti\n\nThe Arabic \"nisba\" al-Tikriti refers to people who were either born in or whose family were from the Iraqi town of Tikrit. In particular it may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "52631909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52631909", "title": "Annie McCarrick", "text": "Annie McCarrick\n\nAnnie Bridget McCarrick (born March 21, 1966) is a missing woman from Long Island, New York who went missing under suspicious circumstances on March 26, 1993, while she was residing in Ireland.\n\nMcCarrick was born on Long Island, New York and she lived there until her move to Ireland in January 1987. McCarrick disappeared on March 26, 1993. She had left her apartment in Dublin, Ireland so that she could go to the Wicklow Mountains for the day. She had asked a friend to accompany her but her friend declined. CCTV captured images of McCarrick in the Allied Irish Bank location in Sandymount, where she was seen withdrawing money from her bank account. She did some shopping at Quinnsworth supermarket before returning to her apartment at 3:00pm. She was seen on a bus at about 3:40pm in Ranelagh. During nighttime between the time of 9:00 and 11:00pm, someone had claimed to have seen her at a pub called Johnnie Fox's in Glencullen talking to a young man who was wearing a wax jacket. The woman who was sighted by someone at the pub was believed to be McCarrick. McCarrick had gone to see an Irish music and dancing show that was a traditional event called the Hooley Show, but McCarrick did not realise there was a cover charge. McCarrick's male friend then paid for her, and continued to keep paying for her during her entire time there. Nobody saw either McCarrick or her male friend leave the pub, and the man's identity was never discovered. Since it was dark and wet outside, people question if she would have walked all the way to Enniskerry, which was 6km away.\n\nNumerous searches by authorities in Ireland have turned up nothing in McCarrick's disappearance. The authorities focused their search on the Wicklow Mountains and wider Leinster area as many women have gone missing there since 1990. Gardaí believe that McCarrick was murdered by the same serial killer involved in the other disappearances. In 1995, in a new book called \"Missing, Presumed\" by a detective named Sergeant Alan Bailey, it was revealed that an IRA killer and child abuser was established as a \"credible suspect\" in the disappearance of McCarrick. In 2008 the case was reopened.\n\n"}
{"id": "515884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=515884", "title": "Anthony Soprano Jr.", "text": "Anthony Soprano Jr.\n\nAnthony John \"A.J.\" Soprano Jr. (born July 15, 1986), played by Robert Iler, is a fictional character on the HBO TV series \"The Sopranos\". He is the son of Carmela and Tony Soprano.\n\nAnthony is the troubled younger brother of Tony and Carmela's more accomplished daughter, Meadow. A chronic underachiever with self-esteem issues, A.J. is diagnosed as borderline ADD. Additionally, he crashes his mother's car, smokes marijuana at his own confirmation, gets drunk on stolen communion wine, vandalizes his school swimming pool, and is finally expelled after cheating on a test. As a result, his parents arrange to send him to military school, until they discover that he suffers from the same anxiety and panic attacks that plagued his father and grandfather. Instead, he remains in public school. His birthday is July 15.\n\nIn the episode \"Two Tonys,\" it is revealed that Tony had bought A.J. an elaborate $5,000 drum set, and in the episode \"All Happy Families...,\" despite discovering that A.J. is not doing well in school and does not have an optimistic future as far as college is concerned, Tony gets him an almost new Nissan Xterra, though Tony claims it is a \"motivational tool.\" A.J. is excited about the SUV, though he comments about the environmental impact of SUV's and claims he may encounter social pressure from school friends to drive a different vehicle. During the fifth season he also shows an increasing amount of disrespect to his mother, presumably due to the separation. He tends to relate to his father and ends up moving in with him during the separation; however, in the episode \"Sentimental Education,\" when A.J. and Tony get into a scuffle over A.J.'s disrespect, as his father has him pinned against the wall, A.J. says, \"One of these days, you wait...I'm going to kick your fucking ass.\" Immediately afterwards, A.J. decides he wants to move back in with his mother, threatening to call social services due to the ongoing \"violence against children\" present in his father's home. Carmela takes the opportunity to demand certain things from A.J. in return for allowing him to move back in, like showing respect to his mother by not swearing at her and attending to schoolwork.\n\nFrequently throughout the series, Tony and Carmela express concern about A.J.'s future. Tony has no desire to groom his son into a position within his organization. In the fifth season of the show, A.J. displays an unexpected interest in pursuing a career in event planning, but later derides his parents' mentions of it (e.g., in \"Mr. & Mrs. John Sacrimoni Request...\").\n\nIn all seasons, A.J. is portrayed as a fan of heavy metal, via product placements (shirts, coats, posters and stickers) of bands like Pantera, Nevermore, Marilyn Manson, Slipknot, Coal Chamber, Trivium, Machine Head, and Limp Bizkit though as early as season 1 a poster of an Ulver black metal album can be spotted in his room. By the end of the series, having grown more worldly and introspective, he discovers and begins analyzing the early work of Bob Dylan. Through various plot points and pieces of clothing, A.J. is identified as a fan of the New York Giants, New Jersey Devils and New York/New Jersey MetroStars.\nIn \"Full Leather Jacket\", A.J. says that he wants to go to Harvard University or West Point for college. Tony dismisses the idea as unrealistic given A.J.'s poor academic performance. During Season 3, when Tony asks him about it at a family dinner, A.J. claims that he never said that, as he knows his grades wouldn't be good enough. Throughout Season 5, references are made to the unlikelihood of A.J.'s being admitted to a four-year university.\n\nIn Season 6, A.J. admits to his parents that he has flunked out of the community college he was attending, a worrying parallel to Tony's own youth. A.J. acquires a large knife and goes to the institution where Uncle Junior is being held, in a futile effort to exact revenge for his father. He is arrested but later released without charge thanks to his father's political connections. At this time, he has been seen delving into the New York City club scene and experimenting with cocaine.\n\nAfter several days of Anthony's claiming to be searching for jobs on the Internet with no result, Tony intervenes and arranges a construction job for his son. A.J. first claims he cannot do it because he will be trying again for community college, but Tony says that is not a problem as many of the men who work in construction are high school and college students. A.J. is reluctant to accept the job because of the early hours and outdoor work, which makes Tony angry. Tony grabs a football helmet and smashes the windshield of A.J.'s Nissan Xterra, and warns A.J. not to test him. A.J. reluctantly works at the construction site where he meets Blanca Selgado, whom he begins dating. Blanca, who is Dominican, 10 years A.J.'s senior, and has a three-year-old son named Hector, meets with Carmela's disapproval. Tony however is more approving of the relationship, commenting that Blanca was Catholic like the Sopranos, at least.\n\nIn 2007, A.J. proposes to Blanca at a fancy restaurant dinner by telling her that he will own a couple of restaurants in a couple of years. However, Blanca soon gives the ring back and breaks up with him, leaving A.J. severely depressed. His father tries to cheer him up, telling him there are many reasons he will meet other women and be successful in future relationships, including that he is smart, hard-working and white, \"a huge plus nowadays.\" He quits his job and mopes about until his father forces him to attend a fraternity party with the college-age relatives of his fellow mafiosi. A.J. grudgingly attends, but soon starts to enjoy himself. Several of the boys run a sports betting operation at the college and after a night of drinking, they beat and torture a college student who neglected to pay them by pouring acid on his foot. A.J. joins in to help forget his relationship problems. Later, he joins his new friends again when one of them carelessly opens the door of his car, hitting a passerby on a bicycle. They make racial slurs towards the man, blame the accident on him, and attack the man. A.J. stands by, neither helping his friends, nor aiding the victim. Following that, A.J. is seen telling his psychiatrist that he is once again depressed about the world due to that incident.\n\nThis depression would lead to a botched suicide attempt, wherein A.J. ties a cinder block to his leg with a too-long length of rope and attempts to drown himself in the pool at the Soprano home. His father hears his cries for help and dives into the pool and rescues him. He is then placed in a facility to get psychiatric care, where he meets Rhiannon, an ex-girlfriend of his former friend Hernan. After Tony tells him that his uncle Bobby has been shot dead, A.J. begins to cry and complain about how Bobby's death negatively affects him. Tony loses patience with him, violently drags him out of his bed, slaps him around, and tells him to pack as the family leaves home quickly to elude a possible attack by Phil Leotardo's gang.\n\nIn the final episode, A.J. is in his Nissan Xterra with Rhiannon, his new girlfriend, and starts making out with her, but they both rush out of the vehicle when it catches fire due to A.J.'s parking it over a pile of leaves. He later decides he wants to join the Army, but is talked out of it by his parents and girlfriend. Instead, Tony gets him a new BMW M3 and a job working for Little Carmine's film production company. The job, with the possibility of A.J. opening up his own nightclub, which Tony proposes to his son if he does well with the job, seems to alleviate A.J.'s depression, and he is last seen having dinner with his family.\n\n"}
{"id": "31476350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31476350", "title": "Aquascogoc", "text": "Aquascogoc\n\nThe Aquascogoc is the name given to a Native American tribe of Secotan people and also the name of a village encountered by the English during their late 16th century attempts to settle and establish permanent colonies in what is now North Carolina, known at the time as Virginia. Together with the rest of Secotan people they formed a part of the Native American group known as the Carolina Algonquian Indians, and spoke the now extinct Carolina Algonquian language. In 1585 the village of Aquascogoc was burned by Sir Richard Grenville, in retaliation for the alleged theft of a silver drinking vessel.\n\nSir Richard Grenville was the leader of the 1585 expedition which first attempted to land English settlers on Roanoke island. Guided by Chief Manteo, Grenville arrived at the village but the inhabitants showed little inclination to meet with him, and the Englishmen soon returned to their boats. However, a silver drinking cup was found to be missing, and was believed to have been stolen by the Aquascogoc, leading to a furious reaction from Grenville. During the angry exchanges which followed, the village of Aquascogoc was torched by the English.\n\nThe Aquascogoc would however have their revenge. Grenville left Roanoke, leaving behind fifteen men, battle-hardened soldiers. When Governor John White returned in 1587 he searched for the fifteen, but found only bones. White quickly made contact with friendly natives led by Chief Manteo, who explained to him that the lost fifteen had been killed by hostile Secotan, Aquascogoc and Dasamongueponke warriors, choosing a time and place of attack \"of great advantage to the savages\".\n\nMuch of what is known about the lives of the Aquascogoc and other Algonquian tribes in 16th-century North Carolina survives because of the watercolor paintings and the journal kept by Governor John White. who was commissioned in 1585 to \"draw to life\" the inhabitants of the New World and their surroundings. During White's time at Roanoke Island, he completed numerous watercolor drawings of the surrounding landscape and native peoples. These works are significant as they are the most informative illustrations of a Native American society of the Eastern seaboard, and predate the first body of \"discovery voyage art\" created in the late 18th century by the artists who sailed with Captain James Cook. They represent the sole surviving visual record of the native inhabitants of America, encountered by England's first settlers.\n\nWhite's enthusiasm for watercolor paint was unusual; most contemporary painters preferred to use oil-based paints. White's watercolors would soon become a sensation in Europe, and it was not long before the paintings were engraved by the Flemish master engraver Theodore de Bry. Through the medium of print, the illustrations became widely known and distributed; they were published in 1590 under the title \"America\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52633828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52633828", "title": "Binoy Mathew", "text": "Binoy Mathew\n\nBinoy Mathew (born 23 November 1972) is an Indian ad film maker. He has directed advertising commercials for various brands in India.\n\nBinoy was born in the village of Kadampanad, Kerala . He studied at Infant Jesus School, Thuvayoor, Boys High School, Kadampanad, Devasom Board College, Sasthamcotta (Bsc, Physics) and Rourkela Institute of management Studies (MBA). He gained experience in advertising and marketing while working with Sintex Industries Ltd., MK Electric Ltd., Schneider Electric Ltd., WaterMelon Studios Private Ltd. and Magiclite Productions.\n\nBinoy started directing commercials with the IDCB Vanitha Easy Loan campaign and has worked on various brands He also directed two animations shorts titled The Stealth and Walk and Talk. The Stealth was selected for the prestigious Athens Anim Fest 2009. The premiere of the short film Walk and Talk took place at The Third International Documentary and Short Film Festival of Kerala (idsffk), 2010, in the competition section of animation films.\n\n"}
{"id": "55844817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55844817", "title": "Carl Weeks", "text": "Carl Weeks\n\nCarl Weeks (1876–1962) was an American businessman, entrepreneur and philanthropist best known for founding pharmaceutical and cosmetic companies including Weeks & Leo Co., Inc. Carl and his wife Edith built Salisbury House in Des Moines, IA.\n\nCarl Weeks was born to Charles Weeks and Laura (Chamberlain) Weeks on December 2, 1876 in Linn County, IA. In 1879, the family including 2 year old Carl relocated to Kansas. Charles and Laura built and managed the Sod Hotel, an elegant hotel made of prairie sod in Plainville, KS.\n\nIn 1888 when Carl was age 11, the Weeks family moved back to Iowa settling in Des Moines. Carl finished high school at age 16, then attended Highland Park College of Pharmacy in Des Moines earning a degree of Graduate in Pharmacy.\n\nAfter completing school, Carl moved to Oskaloosa, IA working for Green & Bentley Drug Company. Carl then purchased a drug store in Centerville, IA. Carl sold the drug store and returned to Des Moines to work at the D. Weeks Company.\n\nD. Weeks Company was owned by Carl's brothers, Deyet and Leo Weeks. The company manufactured patent medicines from formulas that Carl provided. Carl eventually served as President of the company.\n\nCarl and Leo Weeks formed D. C. Leo Company after their brother, Deyet Weeks, died. D. C. Leo Company offered private label medicines and cosmetics to individual dealers.\n\nIn 1907, Carl formed The Florian Company to manufacture cosmetics. The Florian Company, based in Des Moines, was renamed The Armand Company in 1915. The company made cosmetic lines Armand and Pearls in Wine. Carl revolutionized the face powder market by combining cold cream into face powder. The product was marketed as “ARMAND’S COMPLEXION POWDER IN THE LITTLE PINK & WHITE HAT BOX” and “ARMAND COLD CREAM POWDER In The LITTLE PINK & WHITE HAT BOXES”.\n\nBy 1927, The Armand Company was number one in the United States in face powder sales. The company had also expanded into numerous international markets.\n\nCarl merged Armand Company into Weeks & Leo Co., Inc. when he retired in 1950.\n\nWeeks & Leo Co., Inc. was formed in 1935 through the merger of D. Weeks Company and D. C. Leo Company. The companies were merged to focus on the private label cosmetics and toiletries business. The Armand Company was merged into Weeks & Leo Co. in 1950.\n\nCarl Weeks served as a trustee for Drake University located in Des Moines. He was in charge of fundraising for the construction of Drake Stadium at Drake University. Drake Stadium opened in 1925.\n\nCarl was instrumental in the formation of Drake University College of Pharmacy. For a decade, Carl had helped fund Des Moines College of Pharmacy which had roots in his alma mater, Highland Park College of Pharmacy. In 1939, with Carl’s assistance Des Moines College of Pharmacy was merged into Drake University creating the new college of pharmacy.\n\nHe was also an officer of the Greater Des Moines Committee, Des Moines Rotary Club and was on the board of trustees of Edmundson Art Foundation. Carl was a founder of Des Moines Art Center, Civic Music Association and Des Moines Community Playhouse.\n\nCarl and Edith Weeks built Salisbury House in Des Moines as their personal residence. The house was furnished with antiques and collectibles purchased from around the world. Salisbury House is now a museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "43815434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43815434", "title": "Chingiz Labazanov", "text": "Chingiz Labazanov\n\nChingiz Suleimanovich Labazanov (; born 18 April 1991 in Bolshaya Martynovka, Russia) is a Chechen-born Russian Greco-Roman wrestler. He is winner Golden Grand Prix Ivan Poddubny in the Greco-Roman men's 74 kg event and 75 kg 2016, in final match he beat Olympic Champion Roman Vlasov. He is silver medalist in Greco-Roman World Cup (two time) and gold medalist in World Greco-Roman Wrestling Championships 2014. He became Russian National Greco-Roman Wrestling Champion 2015 in 75 kg. He has older brother Ibragim Labazanov Olympic wreslter.\n"}
{"id": "909449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=909449", "title": "Daisy Bates (author)", "text": "Daisy Bates (author)\n\nDaisy May Bates, CBE (born Margaret Dwyer; 16 October 1859 – 18 April 1951) was an Irish-Australian journalist, welfare worker and lifelong student of Australian Aboriginal culture and society. She was known among the native people as \"Kabbarli\" (i.e. /kaparli/, a kin term found in a number of Australian languages which means \"grandmother\" or \"granddaughter\").\n\nDaisy Bates was born Margaret Dwyer in County Tipperary, Ireland in 1859. Her mother, Bridget (née Hunt), died of tuberculosis in 1862. Her father, James Edward O'Dwyer, married Mary Dillon in 1864 and died en route to the United States, so she was raised in Roscrea by relatives, and educated at the National School in that town.\n\nIn November 1882, Dwyer—who by then had changed her first name to Daisy May—emigrated to Australia aboard the as part of a Queensland government assisted immigration scheme. Some accounts (based on Dwyer's own claims) say that she left Ireland for \"health reasons\", but biographer Julia Blackburn discovered that after getting her first job as a governess in Dublin at age 18, there was a scandal, presumably sexual in nature, which resulted in the young man of the house taking his own life. This story has never been verified, but if true, could have spurred Dwyer to leave Ireland and reinvent her history, setting a pattern for the rest of her life. It was not until long after her death that the truth about her early life emerged, and even her recent biographers have produced differing accounts of her life and work.\n\nDwyer settled first at Townsville, Queensland allegedly staying first at the home of the Bishop of North Queensland and later with family friends who had migrated earlier. Dwyer had travelled with Ernest C. Baglehole and James C. Hann, amongst others, on the later stage of her journey. Both Baglehole and Hann had boarded at Batavia for the journey to Australia. Hann's family, through William Hann's donation of £1000, had been very generous to the construction of St James Church of England some few years before Bishop Stanton had arrived at Townsville. She subsequently found employment as a governess on Fanning Downs Station.\n\nRecords show that she married poet and horseman Breaker Morant (Harry Morant aka Edwin Murrant) on 13 March 1884 in Charters Towers; the union lasted only a short time and Dwyer reputedly threw Morant out because he failed to pay for the wedding and stole some livestock. Significantly, they were never divorced. Morant biographer Nick Bleszynski suggests that Dwyer played a more important role in Morant's life than has been previously thought, and that it was she who convinced him to change his name from Edwin Murrant to Harry Harbord Morant.\n\nAfter parting ways with Morant, Dwyer moved to New South Wales. She said that she became engaged to Philip Gipps but he died before they could marry, though no records support this. She then met John (Jack) Bates—like Morant, a bushman and drover—and they married on 17 February 1885. Their only child, Arnold Hamilton Bates, was born in Bathurst, New South Wales on 26 August 1886. The marriage was not a happy one, probably because Jack's work kept him away from home for long periods.\n\nShe also found time to marry Baglehole, her emigration voyage shipmate, in 1885 at St Stephen's Anglican Church, Newtown, Sydney. Although he is shown as being a seaman, he was the son of a wealthy London family and had become a ship's officer after completing an apprenticeship and this might have been an attraction for Daisy. The polygamous nature of these marriages was kept secret during Bates's lifetime.\n\nIn February 1894, Bates returned to England, leaving Arnold in a Catholic boarding school and telling Jack that she would only return when he had a home established for her. She arrived in England penniless, but eventually found a job working for journalist and social campaigner WT Stead. Despite her skeptical views she worked as an assistant editor on the psychic quarterly \"Borderlands\", and enjoyed an active intellectual life among London's well-connected and bohemian literary and political milieu. However, after she left Stead's employment in 1896, it is unclear how she supported herself until 1899, when she embarked for Western Australia after Jack wrote to say that he was looking for a property there.\n\nBates's involvement with the Aboriginal Australians was not as a missionary, doctor or teacher. The foreword of her book written by Alan Moorehead said, \" As far as I can make out she never tried to teach the Australians Aborigines anything or convert them to any faith. She preferred them to stay as they were and live out the last of their days in peace.\" Alan Moorehead also said, \"She was not an anthropologist but she knew them better than anyone else who ever lived; and she made them interesting not only to herself but to us as well.\"\n\nAt about 1899 a letter was published in \"The Times\" about the cruelty of West Australian settlers to Aborigines. As Bates was preparing to return to Australia, she wrote to \"The Times\" offering to make full investigations and report the results to them. Her offer was accepted and she sailed back to Australia in August 1899. In all, Bates devoted 40 years of her life to studying Aboriginal life, history, culture, rites, beliefs and customs. She researched and wrote on the subject while living in a tent in small settlements from Western Australia to the edges of the Nullarbor Plain, including at Ooldea in South Australia. She was also famed for her strict lifelong adherence to Edwardian fashion, including boots, gloves and a veil.\n\nBates set up camps to feed, clothe and nurse the transient population, drawing on her own income to meet the needs of the aged. She was said to have worn pistols even in her old age and to have been quite prepared to use them to threaten police when she caught them mistreating \"her\" Aborigines.\n\nBates was convinced that the Australian Aborigines were a dying race and that her mission was to record as much as she could about them before they disappeared. In a 1921 article in the Perth \"Sunday Times\", Bates advocated a \"woman patrol\" to prevent the movement of Aborigines from the Central Australian Reserve into settled areas, and later responded to criticism by the Aboriginal civil-rights leader William Harris, who maintained that part-Aboriginal people could be of value to Australian society, by writing that \"As to the half-castes, however early they may be taken and trained, with very few exceptions, the only good half-caste is a dead one.\"\n\nOn her return voyage she met Father Dean Martelli, a Roman Catholic priest who had worked with Aborigines and who gave her an insight into the conditions they faced. She found a school and home for her son in Perth, invested some of her money in property as a security for her old age, bought note books and supplies and left for the state's remote north-west to gather information on Aborigines and the effects of white settlement.\n\nShe wrote articles about conditions around Port Hedland and other areas for geographical society journals, local newspapers and \"The Times\". This experience kindled her lifelong interest in the lives and welfare of Aboriginal people in Western and South Australia.\n\nBased at the Beagle Bay Mission near Broome, Bates, now thirty-six, began her life's work. Her accounts, among the first attempts at a serious study of Aboriginal culture, were published in the Journal of Agriculture and later by anthropological and geographical societies in Australia and overseas.\n\nWhile at the mission she also compiled a local dictionary of several dialects, comprising some two thousand words and sentences, as well as notes on legends and myths. In April 1902 Bates, accompanied by her son and her husband, set out on a droving trip from Broome to Perth. It provided good material for her articles but after spending six months in the saddle and travelling four thousand kilometres, Bates knew that her marriage was over.\n\nFollowing her final separation from Bates in 1902, she spent most of the rest of her life in outback Western and South Australia, studying and working for the remote Aboriginal tribes, who were being decimated by the incursions of European settlement and the introduction of modern technology, western culture and exotic diseases.\n\nIn 1904, the Registrar General of Western Australia, Malcolm Fraser, appointed her to research Aboriginal customs, languages and dialects, a task which took nearly seven years to compile and arrange the data. Many of her papers were read at Geographical and Royal Society meetings.\nIn 1910–11 she accompanied anthropologist A. R. Brown (later Professor Alfred Radcliffe-Brown) and writer and biologist E. L. Grant Watson on a Cambridge ethnological expedition to inquire into Western Australian marriage customs. She was appointed a \"Travelling Protector\" with a special commission to conduct inquiries into all native conditions and problems, such as employment on stations, guardianship and the morality of native and half-caste women in towns and mining camps.\n\nLegend has it that Bates later came into conflict with Radcliffe-Brown because she sent him her manuscript report of the expedition. Much to Bates's chagrin, it was not returned for many years and when it came back it was heavily annotated with Radcliffe-Brown's critical remarks. The conflict culminated in a famous incident at a symposium, where Bates accused Radcliffe-Brown of plagiarism—Bates was scheduled to speak after Radcliffe-Brown had presented his paper, but when she rose it was only to compliment him sarcastically on his presentation of her work, after which she resumed her seat.\n\nAfter 1912, despite having earlier been appointed as Travelling Protector of Aborigines in Western Australia, her application to become the Northern Territory's Protector of Aborigines was rejected on basis of her gender, Bates continued her work on her own, financing it by selling her cattle station.\n\nThe same year she became the first woman ever to be appointed Honorary Protector of Aborigines at Eucla. During the sixteen months she spent there, Bates changed from a semi-professional scientist and ethnologist to a staunch friend and protector of the Aborigines, deciding to live among them and look after them, and to observe and record their lives and lifestyle.\n\nBates stayed at Eucla until 1914, when she travelled to Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney to attend the Science Congress of the Association for the Advancement of Science. Before returning to the desert, she gave lectures in Adelaide which aroused the interests of several women's organisations.\n\nDuring her years at Ooldea she financed the supplies she bought for the Aborigines from the sale of her property. To maintain her income she wrote numerous articles and papers for newspapers, magazines and learned societies. Through journalist and author Ernestine Hill, Bates's work was introduced to the general public, although much of the publicity tended to focus on her sensational stories of cannibalism.\n\nIn August 1933 the Commonwealth Government invited Bates to Canberra to advise on Aboriginal affairs. The next year she was created a Commander of the Order of the British Empire by King George V. More important to Bates was the opportunity to put her work in print.\n\nShe left Ooldea and went to Adelaide where, with the help of Ernestine Hill, she produced a series of articles for leading Australian newspapers, titled \"My Natives and I\".\n\nAged seventy-one, she still walked every day to her office at \"The Advertiser\" building. Later the Commonwealth Government paid her a stipend of $4 a week to assist her in putting all her papers and notes in order and prepare her manuscript. But with no other income it was impossible for her to remain in Adelaide so she moved to the village settlement of Pyap on the Murray River where she pitched her tent and set up her typewriter.\n\nIn 1938, she published \"The Passing of the Aborigines\" which asserted practices of cannibalism and infanticide.\n\nIn 1941 she went back to her tent life at Wynbring Siding, east of Ooldea, and she remained there on and off until her health forced her back to Adelaide in 1945.\n\nIn 1948 she tried, through the Australian Army, to contact her son Arnold, who by then was serving in France. Later, in 1949, she contacted the Army again, through the RSL, in an effort to communicate with him. Arnold was living in New Zealand but refused to have anything to do with his mother.\n\nDaisy Bates died on 18 April 1951, aged 91. She is buried at Adelaide's North Road Cemetery.\n\n\nSidney Nolan's 1950 painting \"Daisy Bates at Ooldea\" shows Bates standing in a barren outback landscape. It was acquired by the National Gallery of Australia. An episode in her life was the basis for Margaret Sutherland's chamber opera \"The Young Kabbarli\" (1964) and her involvement with the Aboriginal people is the basis for the 1983 lithograph \"The Ghost of Kabbarli\" by Susan Dorothea White.\n\nWorks cited\n\n"}
{"id": "41866712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41866712", "title": "Dmytro Bulatov", "text": "Dmytro Bulatov\n\nDmytro Bulatov (; August 13, 1978 in Kiev) is a Ukrainian civic activist who was Minister of Youth and Sports in the 2014 Yatsenyuk Government.\n\nBulatov was an activist and leader of the AutoMaidan, which was the mobile car-based arm of the anti-government Euromaidan movement. He is also in charge of the \"Socially responsible society\" NGO. Due to his activism, he was kidnapped and tortured outside the villas of Ukrainian government and business figures.\n\nDmytro Bulatov is a graduate of the National Technical University of Ukraine \"Kyiv Polytechnic Institute\". In 2001, he graduated from the Electronics Department with a degree in Engineering of Microelectronics and Semiconductor Devices.\n\nBetween 1998 and 2014, Dmytro Bulatov had his own business and held key positions in state and private companies. He worked as the Director of the Tsentr-K Private Enterprise (1998-2003, hotel industry), as the Chief of Q-Service Group of Companies (2003-2007, marketing, advertisement and design), as the Deputy Director of ITERA Group of Companies (2007-2008, building activity), the Director of “Promlohistyka” LLC (2008-2009, metallurgy), and as the Director of “Torhovo-Promyslovyi Holding” LLC (2009-2010, oil and gas trade). In conjunction with this, he held consulting activities in the areas of marketing, advertisement and sales. Between 2010 and 2013, he was the owner of Stolnik Autocenter, but after certain events, the business vector was changed and Bulatov began to work mainly in consulting.\n\nBetween May and October 2010, he worked as the Director of the “Ukrrybproekt” Designing Institute for Fisheries and Fishery Industry and in the State Committee of Fishing of Ukraine under the Ministry of Agrarian Policy of Ukraine. During this half of the year, he turned the institute from a losing organisation to a profitable one.\n\nDmytro Bulatov was also active in wakeboarding and took part in All-Ukrainian competitions.\n\nAt the beginning of 2013, he created the “Socially Responsible Society” NGO. Together with the Ukrainian Philanthropists Forum, this organisation began the National Philanthropists Top List. In April 2013, Bulatov was one of the action organizers of alcohol sales point dismantling in Druzhby Narodiv Park in Kyiv. In September 2013, he agitated for the prohibition of alcohol festivals held at playgrounds.\n\nAfter Dmytro Bulatov’s son of 12 years old had gotten stuck in an open drain at the crossing of Zdolbunovska Street and Hryhorenka Street (Kyiv, Pozniaky Microdistrict) while riding a bicycle and had told about it to his father, Dmytro Bulatov, together with other activists, also came to grips with the problem of open drain covers. In autumn 2013, his organisation, at its own expense, covered dangerous open drain covers with grates and fibreglass lids that were made by Bulatov and his automobile repair shop. Such fibreglass lids were cheaper and could not be sent for scrap. Dmytro Bulatov continually appeared before mass media with an appeal to fix such lids.\n\nDmytro Bulatov is married and has three children.\n\nOn November 30, 2014, Dmytro Bulatov found out about the forceful dispersal of Euromaidan and, together with his friend Oleksii Hrytsenko, decided to organise a car run across Kyiv in order to involve people in the protest. On the first day, about 300 drivers partook in the action. On the morning of December 1, Bulatov gathered with other participants (most notably Vasyl Futin, Tetiana Chornovol, Andrii Dzidzia, Volodymyr Kadura, and others) to delegate responsibility. This was the beginning of AutoMaidan.\n\nBulatov was the organizer and took part in most of AutoMaidan’s actions, particularly in a drive to Mezhyhiria, in visits to other high-ranking person and troop leader of “Berkut”, and also in blocking of “Berkut” in Sviatoshynskyi District, Kyiv.\n\nOn January 22, 2014, during Eurorevolution in Ukraine, the activists of AutoMaidan announced that Bulatov went missing. The last time Bulatov got in touch was the evening of January 22. On January 23, at approximate four o'clock in the morning, “Berkut” arrested a minimum of 15 activists of AutoMaidan who patrolled Hospital No. 17 in Kyiv and piled up nine cars.\nAutoMaidan announced a reward of ten thousand US dollars for information to help find Dmytro Bulatov and save his life. Subsequently, this amount was increased up to twenty-five thousand US dollars.\n\nOn January 30, Bulatov got in touch with friends and claimed he had been kidnapped, and terribly tortured by captors who spoke with Russian accents. After these terrible tortures, he was brought outside the city and thrown out of a car.\n\nBulatov managed to get to the Village of Vyshenky, Boryspil district. and asked for help. The same day, Bulatov was admitted to the Boris Clinic, where he received first medical care.\nAccording to Petro Poroshenko, Dmytro Bulatov, Oleksandr Danyliuk, and Oleksii Hrytsenko (participant of AutoMaidan) were entered by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine into the foreign travel ban list. This list was observed by the frontier guards. On February 2, Shevchenko District Court in the City of Kyiv rejected to uphold a motion of investigation to arrest Dmytro Bulatov. That same day, Bulatov went to Lithuania to be treated there in transit through Riga.\n\nOn 6 February 2014, while undergoing treatment in Lithuania, Bulatov stated at a press conference in Vilnius that he was tortured to admit that his organisation was funded and aided by Americans and the U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, especially, and that he was hired to organise the Automaidan and the riots against the current government. During the press conference, Bulatov repeatedly stressed that he believed he was abducted by the Russian special forces and that the leader of Ukrainian Choice, oligarch Viktor Medvedchuk, might have been involved in his abduction. After one session of torture, \"they made me say into a camera that I was a spy for the United States, that I was a spy for the CIA, that Americans were giving me money, that Automaidan was funded by Americans, and that I was specifically hired to organize the Automaidan and the riots against the current government.\" Bulatov also said: \"After this torture, I said to the camera everything they asked me to say, and they recorded it all on video. I said that the U.S. ambassador gave me $50,000, which I used to buy gasoline for the Automaidan, to repair cars for the Automaidan activists, for whom I had bought several video cameras to film trips. That is, I lied only to get them to torture me less.\"\n\nThe kidnapping of Bulatov was widely condemned, including by the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Catherine Ashton.High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Catherine Ashton.\n\nFresh from medical care in Lithuania, Bulatov went to Germany to visit his relatives. On 15 February 2014, he held a press conference at Checkpoint Charlie Museum in Berlin where he again accused Medvedchuk of his kidnapping, but said: “That’s only a suspicion.” He confirmed that he would re-join protests in Ukraine and would not seek asylum.\n\nOn February 24, Dmytro Bulatov returned to Ukraine.\n\nNow, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine is carrying out an investigation into the kidnapping of Dmytro Bulatov. Operational-Investigations Group is investigating five cases, including intimidation in relation to social and political activity.\n\nOn February 2014 Dmytro Bulatov was appointed Minister for Youth and Sports in the first Yatsenyuk Government. He began reforms in the areas of sports and physical culture. On the 2 December 2014 appointed second Yatsenyuk Government he did not return. Bulatov also did not participate in the 2014 Ukrainian parliamentary election.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "10739982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10739982", "title": "Domingo Cullen", "text": "Domingo Cullen\n\nDomingo Cullen (1791 – 21 June 1839) was the governor of province of Santa Fe, Argentina during 1838.\n\nCullen was born in Tenerife, Canary Islands, but moved to Argentina in the 1820s after establishing commercial activities (linked with fluvial trade) in the area. He met Santa Fe's \"caudillo\" Estanislao López when serving as a deputy of the Cabildo of Montevideo. After being involved in activism related to the independence of Uruguay and the resistance against Brazil (see Cisplatine War), he returned to Santa Fe, settled in a ranch, and married Joaquina Rodríguez del Fresno, the young widow of Pedro Aldao and sister-in-law of López. In 1828 he became a counselor of López, and his Minister of Government in 1833.\n\nAt the time of López's death on 15 June 1838, Cullen was in Buenos Aires as representative of Santa Fe, trying to find a peaceful solution to the ongoing French blockade of the port (caused by a law of 1821 that obligated resident foreign citizens of the province of Buenos Aires to serve in conscription).\nCullen argued that the blockade was the result of a provincial law and therefore the other provinces were not bound to help Buenos Aires. Juan Manuel de Rosas, the powerful governor of Buenos Aires, contended that this violated the Federal Pact.\n\nWhen Cullen returned to Santa Fe, he became governor, but his election was not acknowledged by Rosas and by Pascual Echagüe, governor of the neighbouring Entre Ríos Province. Without López's support, he faced opposition from his personal enemies in the province and from those loyals to Rosas. In the end, all provinces including Santa Fe ended up supporting Buenos Aires against the French, and Cullen was forced to resign and go to exile.\n\nAccused of conspiring with the Unitarians (enemies of Rosas) and the French, he sought asylum in Santiago del Estero, but he was betrayed by his host and delivered to Rosas's men, to be tried in Buenos Aires. However, right after crossing the Arroyo del Medio and entering the territory of Buenos Aires Province, his captors announced they had orders to kill him. Cullen was assisted by a priest in San Nicolás de los Arroyos and wrote a letter to his wife; he was then killed by a firing squad, on 21 June 1839. He was buried in the spot.\n\nIn 1840 the army of General Juan Lavalle passed by the place on its way to Santa Fe, and Cullen's body was exhumed at the request of Pedro Rodríguez del Fresno, an officer of Lavalle's and Cullen's brother-in-law. He was taken to the Convent of Saint Dominic in Santa Fe, where they remain today, next to the bodies of his son Patricio and several other important leaders.\nCullen's family was of Irish origin, descended from Thomas Cullen Maher, who emigrated from Kilkenny to the Canary Islands in 1793. Domingo Cullen (full name: Domingo Alejandro Lorenzo Cullen y Ferraz), born in Tenerife, was Cullen Maher's third grandson, the son of Guillermo Felipe Cullen and Ángela Isidra Ferraz de la Guardia.\n\nCullen emigrated to the Río de la Plata region, first settling in Montevideo, Uruguay, in 1811, and moving then to Santa Fe in 1823. This Argentine branch of the family has given Santa Fe many influential characters in the field of politics.\n\nCullen had seven children. José María Cullen, his firstborn, and Patricio Cullen, his second son, both served as governors of Santa Fe (Tomás Cullen, his last son, was also ad interim governor). His third child, Joaquina, was the wife of Nicasio Oroño, governor and political chief of Rosario, and the fourth, Josefa, was married to Juan María Gutiérrez Granados, member of the Constitutional Assembly that crafted the Argentine Constitution of 1853.\n"}
{"id": "51634448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51634448", "title": "Ebenezer Crafts", "text": "Ebenezer Crafts\n\nEbenezer Crafts (1740 – 1810) was one of the founders of Craftsbury, Vermont, and Leicester Academy.\n\nCrafts was born in Pomfret, Connecticut, and studied theology, graduating from Yale College in 1759. He married Mehitable Chandler, sister of the painter Winthrop Chandler, on 9 December 1762. Mehitable was from the town next to Pomfret, Woodstock, Connecticut, where the couple settled in 1768. Crafts later purchased a farm in the neighboring town of Sturbridge, Massachusetts, where he built the large \"Publick House\" in the center of the village. The couple kept a tavern there for many years and they acquired a large estate. After the battles of Lexington and Concord, he raised a company of cavalry in the adjoining towns of Sturbridge, Charlton, Dudley, and Oxford, and was commissioned its captain. He was ordered to join the army with it at Cambridge, and remained in the service until the evacuation of Boston by the British troops, when he returned to Sturbridge. In 1785 a regiment of cavalry was ordered to be raised in Worcester County, Massachusetts. Of this regiment he was commissioned its first colonel, an office which he held until his resignation in 1791. During the outbreak known as \"Shays' Rebellion,\" in western Massachusetts, he rendered prompt and efficient service in its suppression, under Gen. Benjamin Lincoln, in the winter of 1786-1787.\n\nCol. Crafts conceived the idea of founding an academy in Sturbridge, but the opportunity to secure the mansion of Aaron Lopez, in the neighboring town of Leicester, Massachusetts, induced him to modify his plans. The mansion was a very suitable building, and the estate was purchased at auction for £515. A large oil portrait of Col. Crafts hangs upon the walls of Leicester Academy. He was aided largely in this enterprise by Col. Jacob Davis, and the first student on 17 June 1784 was his son Samuel C. Crafts.\n\nFalling on hard times, in 1788 Crafts was forced to move and settled in 1791 in a town near Cabot, Vermont. It was later named after him. Crafts lived the rest of his life in Craftsbury, Vermont, He died and was buried there in 1810.\n"}
{"id": "7976304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7976304", "title": "Education for librarianship", "text": "Education for librarianship\n\nEducation for librarianship in the United States and Canada generally consists of a master's degree program in library science. In Germany, the first step for an academic librarian is a Ph.D. in a subject field, followed by additional training in librarianship. There are also bachelor's, associate, and certificate programs in library science, which provide formal training of paraprofessional library workers, library technicians, and clerks—as well as preparation for graduate study in library science.\n\nUntil the 19th century, the librarian in charge of an academic collection was normally a scholar, often a university professor with a special interest in the library. There were no training programs, and the new librarian was expected to follow the practices of other similar libraries. (Popular libraries in the modern sense had not yet developed.) In the 19th century, although some librarians followed this older pattern, others prepared as apprentices under the direction of established librarians.\n\nA library school is an institution of higher learning specializing in the professional training of librarians. The first library school in the United States was established by Melvil Dewey (the originator of the Dewey decimal system) in 1887 at Columbia University. Since then many library schools have been founded in the United States and Canada, with Canada's first formal librarianship program established at McGill University in 1904. The development of library schools in other countries began in 1915, when librarians' schools were founded at Leipzig and Barcelona (currently, as a faculty of the Universitat de Barcelona, the latter is the oldest library school in Europe). Many others were founded during World War II. The University of Chicago Graduate Library School became the first library school to confer a master's degree in library science, which is now the standard professional degree, and later became the first to give a doctoral degree in the field. Other prominent American library schools are located at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.\n\nMost library schools in North America offer graduate programs only. Accreditation of these programs is granted by the American Library Association. The bachelor's degree in Library Science (or Library Economy as it was called in early days) was, for the most part, phased out several decades ago. Librarians in North America typically earn a master's degree, typically the Master of Library Science (MLS) or the Master of Library and Information Science (MLIS). This degree allows one to work as a practicing librarian in public libraries, academic libraries, school library media centers, and special libraries, while many individuals with the MLS credential work with major library vendors. The degree is also applicable to related sectors such as publishing.\n\nMaster of Library Science programs are typically structured to offer a combination of required and elective courses in library science and information science. The required courses focus on core library skills such as cataloging, reference, collection development as well as related areas such as the philosophy underlying the profession, information technology and management. Elective courses may include information management, children's literature, genealogy and archives as well as specialized courses related to different types of libraries.\n\nIn recent decades, many schools offering librarianship education have changed their names to reflect the shift from print media to electronic media, and to information contained outside of traditional libraries. Some call themselves schools of library and information science (abbreviated to \"SLIS\", hence the term \"SLISters\" for their students), while others may have dropped the word \"library\" altogether. This trend began as early as the 1960s with the recognition that information and access to it was shifting to electronic resources with the development of telecommunications and computer networks and away from the traditional definition of librarianship. This shift led a number of library schools to change or broaden their mission to be more inclusive of information sciences across many disciplines including library sciences, archives, computer sciences and more, and led to the development by a number of schools of an \"iSchool\" organization, to advance the field of information as a whole.\n\nThe normal preparation for a faculty member in a department of library science (or other name) is a Ph.D. in Library science or Information science. In some fields of librarianship, a Ph.D. in another related subject, such as archival studies, is the equivalent, and some faculty have doctorates in various subject fields, as well as an MLS (or similar) degree.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, a professional librarian normally has a one or two-year master's degree in library and information science, library science or information science with abbreviations such as MLS, MSLS, MIS, MS-LIS, MISt, MI, MLIS, or MILS. Many professional librarians have degrees obtained from programs accredited by the American Library Association (ALA) and can have specializations within fields such as archives, records management, information architecture, information policy, knowledge management, public librarianship, medical librarianship, law librarianship, special librarianship, academic librarianship, or school (K-12) librarianship. School librarians often are required to have a teaching credential and school librarian license in addition to a library science degree. Master's degree programs for school library media specialist initial preparation are also accredited by the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE), which ALA recognizes. Many, if not most, academic librarians also have a second, subject-based master's degree.\n\nThe early history of education for librarians in the U.S. has been explored by Churchwell. The University of Chicago studies in library science assessed the state of education for librarians in 1948. The pivotal role of the first doctoral degree at the University of Chicago Graduate Library School from 1921-1951 has been analyzed by John Richardson in his study, \"The Spirit of Inquiry\". Many faculty members at the University of Chicago, Graduate Library School (1928-1979) were at the forefront of the field's development in the twentieth century: Lester Asheim, Lee Pierce Butler, Leon Carnovsky, Herman H. Fussler, Frances E. Henne, Carleton B. Joeckel, Jesse Shera, Peggy Sullivan, Douglas Waples, Louis Round Wilson, Howard Winger, and Robert Wadsworth. \"The Library Quarterly\" was first published by the Graduate Library School in 1931.\n\nAt the turn of the millennium (1999–2000), problems related to the graduate education of professional librarians pervaded professional and academic discourse. These were initially identified by the Council of the American Library Association as the growing elimination of the word \"library\" from the names of schools, the seeming lack of attention to core competencies (cataloguing was often mentioned), and the national shortage of professionals to work with particular groups (specifically young people in public libraries and disadvantaged populations), and in particular environments (such as schools). The Final Report of the Steering Committee on the Congress for Professional Education provides an analysis of these issues. The Coalition on Reinventing Information Science, Technology, and Literary Education supported by the Kellogg Foundation provided additional analysis of future educational needs and direction. Bernie Sloan compiled an extensive 2004 bibliography on changes in LIS education.\n\nDistinguished service to education for librarianship in the U.S. and Canada is recognized by the annual Beta Phi Mu Award sponsored by the International Honorary Society, Beta Phi Mu. The first award was made in 1954 to Rudolph Hjalmar Gjelsness Dean of the University of Michigan's Library Science Department from 1940 to 1964.\n\nThe primary association for faculty teaching in library and information science programs is the Association for Library and Information Science Education.\n\nIn academic regalia in the United States, the color for library science is lemon.\n\nIn the UK, a librarian can have a three- or four-year bachelor's degree in library and information studies or information science; separate master's degrees in librarianship, archive management, and records management are also available. In the United Kingdom, these degrees are accredited by the Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals and the Society of Archivists.\n\nIn Germany, the first step for an academic librarian is a Ph.D. in a subject field, followed by additional training in librarianship.\n\nIn Denmark the first step to become a librarian is a 3-year long bachelor's degree in Library and Information Science (B.Sc.) at The Royal School of Library and Information Science. The students then have the choice between taking a half-year-long education for librarianship called Librarian D.B or take a 2-year master's degree called Master of Library and Information Science (M.L.I.Sc.). All the already mentioned courses takes place in Danish but The Royal School of Library and Information Science also offers an English-speaking 2-year master's degree called Master of Library and Information Science (M.L.I.Sc.). Students who complete the bachelor's degree, the librarianship or one of the master's degrees offered get work as librarians, information employees or organization staff. The students can also obtain a Ph.D. in Library and Information Science at The Royal School of Library and Information Science (first awarded at The Royal School of Library and Information Science in 2004). The students can also obtain a doctorate in Library and Information Science at The Royal School of Library and Information Science (first awarded at The Royal School of Library and Information Science in 2006).\n\nIn 1914, the University of the Philippines offered the first courses in Library education in the country. The University would later establish the first separate library school in the country in 1961; the Institute of Library Science, a former department of the now defunct College of Liberal Arts. Librarians usually have a four-year bachelor's degree in library and information studies, or a master's degree in LIS or one with a concentration in Library Science. It is also not uncommon for librarians to possess a degree in Education, with a specialization or major in Library Science. With passage of the Republic Act No. 6966 (Repealed in 2003 with the passing of R.A. 9246 or \"The Philippine Librarianship Act of 2003\") in 1990, graduates of library and information science are required to take the licensure examinations for librarians in order to practice librarianship in the Philippines or countries which have reciprocity as regards the practice of the field.\n\nIn New Zealand, Victoria University of Wellington is the only university providing postgraduate education in librarianship. Qualifications include Master of Information Studies (course based) and Master of Arts (thesis based) as well as postgraduate diploma and certificate in librarianship. Open Polytechnic provides undergraduate librarianship education.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1291402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1291402", "title": "Fransaskois", "text": "Fransaskois\n\nFransaskois () are francophones or French Canadians living in the Prairie province of Saskatchewan. The term Franco-Saskatchewanian may also be used on occasion, although in practice it is rare due to its length and unwieldiness.\n\nFrench speakers represent about six per cent of the population of Saskatchewan, and like the province itself natural increase and net emigration nearly balance one another out. Fransaskois and Fransaskoises are chiefly found in large cities such as Regina, Saskatoon, Prince Albert and Moose Jaw. However, they form a plurality or majority in small towns like Gravelbourg, Albertville, Duck Lake, Ponteix, Zenon Park and Bellegarde.\n\nAs with other French Canadian minority groups in Canada outside of Quebec, not all Fransaskois are French speakers; due to the pressures toward assimilation that the community faces as a small minority group in a predominantly English-speaking province, a considerable number of people who are ethnically French (Fransaskois) are in fact bilingual, primarily or exclusively anglophone.\n\nIn 1752 Louis de La Corne was appointed commandant \"poste de l’Ouest\". He embarked on an expedition along the northern coast of Lake Superior, through Fort Paskoya (Le Pas, Manitoba) and into what is today the province of Saskatchewan establishing Fort Saint-Louis, or what became known as Fort-à-la-Corne, near the forks of the Saskatchewan River. It is there that the first attempts at wheat cultivation in the west took place. La Corne left in order to return to New France; the lands he left behind were the furthest western laying lands in the French Empire.\n\nFrench \"coureurs de bois\" utilized the territory for over a century in their pursuit of furs to trade with the Hudson's Bay Company and the North-West Company. These French fur traders often had local First Nations women as their companions. While the majority of these couples were not formally married, the offspring that they produced often carried the French names of their fathers. Names like Dumont, Cardinal, Breland and Vandal are often associated with the French Métis. After the union of the two trading companies in 1821, the French Métis settled along the Red River in Manitoba where they lived peacefully until Rupert’s Land, which had been property of the Hudson’s Bay Company, was sold to the Dominion of Canada in 1870. Events moved quickly as Canada hastily attempted to transfer power to their new western lands. After 1870 many Métis left the Red River to seek out new territories where they might return to their former ways of life. The vast majority landed on the banks of the Saskatchewan River in the area of Batoche and Duck Lake where armed resistance led to the Métis defeat at the battle of Batoche in 1885 when Riel surrendered to General Middleton’s soldiers.\n\nHowever, in 1892, the Northwest Territories (which at the time covered the Canadian Prairies west of Southern Manitoba) abolished French as an official language. In 1984, its status as an official languages was restored in the Canadian territories, but not in the prairie provinces.\n\nAt the end of the nineteenth century the Roman Catholic Church aided the government in bringing new groups of immigrants to the prairies. The resulting immigration saw many arrive from Quebec who began establishing towns, schools, churches and businesses. The Canadian government worked to encourage French immigrants from France and Belgium, achieving some success in 1912 and 1913 as some 3000 French arrived in Canada in those two years. At the turn of the century the French-speaking settlers represented about 2.9% of the population. Five years after the foundation of the province of Saskatchewan in 1905 the French-speaking population represented 5.2%. The population grew from 2600 to 25000 in the first ten years of the twentieth century and they would double their population during next two decades.\n\nThe French Canadians arriving in Saskatchewan were mostly farmers interested in developing the agricultural landscape of the province. Others worked full-time to ensure the survival of the Catholic Church and the French language in the province. The first bishops of the west were French Canadians who believed that the survival of the Church was dependent on the survival of the mother tongue. In February 1912, 450 members of the Francophone community of Saskatchewan met at Duck Lake to form a provincial organization called \"La Sociéte du Parler Français de la Saskatchewan\". Invited delegates included Bishop Mathieu of Regina, Bishop Charlebois of Keewatin and the Attorney General Alphonse Turgeon. Later that year the society would go on to form the \"Association Franco-Canadienne de la Saskatchewan\". It was renamed again in 1913, the name \"Association Catholique Franco-Canadienne\" (ACFC) was chosen to represent the cultural and religious interests the group represents. The name changed again in 1962 when the word Catholique was changed in favour of the word Culturelle. Finally in 1998 the name was changed to the Association Communautaire Fransaskois. The associations function is to unite Francophones of the province in order to promote their ideas and protecting their rights. The success of the ACF can be attributed to many strong leaders such as Raymond Denis, Dr. Laurent Roy, Order of Canada recipient Irene Chabot, Roland Pinsonneault, Dumont Lepage and Albert Dube. The ACF is still functioning today and celebrations for their one-hundredth anniversary are planned throughout 2012. 2012 has been proclaimed the Year of the Fransaskois Community in Saskatchewan by Minister Donna Harpauer in recognition of the 100th anniversary of the ACF.\n\nThe right to a French education was not easily won in Saskatchewan. In 1916 several provincial organizations like the Saskatchewan Grain Growers, the Saskatchewan School Trustees’ Association, the Saskatchewan Association of Rural Municipalities resolved to forbid the use of foreign languages in Saskatchewan's schools. Premier William Martin drafted an amendment to Section 177 of the School Act which limited French instruction to one hour a day. In response to the loss of the right to teach French in a public school in 1918 Franco-Catholic school trustees formed the \"Association des commissaries d’écoles franco-canadiens (ACEFC)\". In Gravelbourg, Monsignor Mathieu O.M.I Regina opened the College Mathieu, a private institution offering a classical education opened its doors in 1918 For over 75 years the College Mathieu was the only option for a French education in Saskatchewan. The school was renowned for their competitive sports teams and their dynamic arts programs.\n\nTwo French newspapers emerged in Saskatchewan, \"La Liberté\" and \"Le Patriote de l’Ouest\" and two radio stations CFRG in Gravelbourg and CFNS in Saskatoon each began in 1951 and 1952 respectively. Today, the two papers have been combined into a single publication entitled \"L’Eau Vive\". Radio-Canada has taken a leading role in broadcasting French radio and television across the province; both mediums feature some provincially produced content.\n\nIn 1982, Section 23 of the Canadian Charter of Rights guaranteed minority education rights. A Supreme Court decision (Mahe decision) in 1990 recognized the Fransaskois’ right to control their children’s education. The province of Saskatchewan adopted bill 39 (Multicultural Act) in 1993, and the following year in the town of Gravelbourg, the first French council gained control of their school for the first time in nearly eighty years. The ‘Conseil scolaire fransaskois de la Vielle’ was the first of eight such school councils to gain such control in the province. The other communities were Prince Albert, the Battlefords, Vonda, Bellevue, Bellegarde, Regina and Saskatoon, while French schools also appeared in Moose Jaw, Ponteix and Zenon Park in the next two years. All the councils were consolidated into the Division scolaire fransaskois no. 310 in 1999 after an amendment to the Education Act of 1995. Today, the French-language school board is called the Conseil des écoles fransaskoises. Operated out of offices in Saskatoon, it consists of 13 schools with 1300 students as of September 2010.\n\nThe courts recently recognized French-language educational rights straight through to the end of high school. Though there were few all-French schools in 1969, a number of schools were given permission to teach in French. In 1995, the legal battles ended with Saskatchewan's Francophones winning the right to manage their own schools. The Conseil des écoles fransaskoises operates 15 schools and offers full range of educational services in French. In 1918, in the southern Saskatchewan town of Gravelbourg, Monseigneur O. E. Mathieu founded a private-Catholic school named Collège Mathieu. Girls were admitted to the Collège in 1970. It remained in operation as Western Canada's only private French language high school until spring 2003. As a result of the declining population of students, the high school joined the Conseil des écoles fransaskoises and is now known as L'école Sécondaire Collège Mathieu. The original Collège Mathieu now offers technical training and postsecondary and adult education courses across the province.\n\nDespite their numbers, Fransaskois celebrate their vibrant culture regularly. Folk arts, visual arts, fine arts and performance arts all feature prominently in their festivals.\n\nThe most famous Fransaskoise, Jeanne Sauvé, born in Vonda, served as a Liberal MP, Cabinet minister, Speaker of the House of Commons and ultimately Governor General of Canada. In the arts, notable Fransaskois include trad and roots band La Raquette à Claquettes and children's entertainer Carmen Campagne (from the town of Willow Bunch). New upcoming artists such as Alexis Normand, Véronique Poulin and Shawn Jobin are becoming staples on the Fransaskois music scene, joining more established artists such as Annette Campagne, Chritianne Blondeau and Michel Lalonde.\n\nA French-language professional theatre company, La Troupe du Jour, founded in 1987, operates from a base in Saskatoon.\n\nIn sports, the most notable Fransaskois is Colorado Avalanche forward Blake Comeau of Meadow Lake. Comeau was a member of the 2004 Memorial Cup champion Kelowna Rockets and of two gold-medal-winning World Junior Hockey championship teams.\n\nThe Fransaskois community is served primarily by the radio and television services of Radio-Canada. Ici Radio-Canada Télé's CBKFT-DT and Première Chaîne's CBKF-FM are based in Regina and have rebroadcasters throughout the province, while Regina and Saskatoon receive Espace musique service from rebroadcasters of CKSB-FM in Winnipeg.\n\nTwo community radio stations, CFNS in Saskatoon and CFRG in Gravelbourg, previously operated as locally-owned affiliates of Radio-Canada's radio network. Both were directly acquired by the network in 1973, becoming rebroadcasters of CBKF. In 2003, a new community station, CFRG-FM, was launched in Gravelbourg by a new community group which has no ownership affiliation with the original CFRG. A bilingual community radio station, CKZP-FM, also operates in Zenon Park.\n\nA weekly community newspaper, \"L'Eau vive\", is published in Regina. Two community newspapers, \"Triangle News\" in Coronach and the \"Gravelbourg Tribune\" in Gravelbourg, publish content in both English and French.\n\nGravelbourg's Fransaskois community is the subject of a short documentary \"Les Fransaskois\", produced for the documentary series \"The Grasslands Project\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38076149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38076149", "title": "Fredy Arber", "text": "Fredy Arber\n\nFredy Arber (born 24 August 1928) is a Swiss cyclist. He competed in the men's tandem and 1,000 metres time trial events at the 1952 Summer Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "32324575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32324575", "title": "Fritz Buntrock", "text": "Fritz Buntrock\n\nFritz Buntrock (8 March 1909 in Osnabrück – 24 January 1948 in Kraków) was a German war criminal, member of \"SS-Unterscharfuehrer\" (the SS equivalent to a corporal) serving at Auschwitz concentration camp during the Holocaust in occupied Poland. He was prosecuted at the first Auschwitz trial.\n\nDue to his brutal treatment of prisoners he was nicknamed \"Bulldog\" in the camp. Buntrock supervised the gas chambers. Buntrock was tried by the Supreme National Tribunal in Kraków and sentenced to death. He was hanged in Montelupich Prison on 28 January 1948.\n"}
{"id": "159074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159074", "title": "Gerrie Coetzee", "text": "Gerrie Coetzee\n\nGerhardus Christian \"Gerrie\" Coetzee (born 8 April 1955) is a South African former professional boxer who competed from 1974 to 1986, and in 1993 and 1997. He was the first boxer from the African continent ever to fight for, and win, a world heavyweight championship, having held the WBA title from 1983 to 1984. One of Coetzee's nicknames, \"The Bionic Hand\", came about because of persistent troubles with his right hand, which required the insertion of several corrective items during three surgeries. His Afrikaans nickname was \"Seer Handjies\", or \"Little Sore Hands\", named so by fellow South African boxing great Kallie Knoetze. Coetzee fought the likes of Iran Barkley, Greg Page, Pinklon Thomas, Frank Bruno, Leon Spinks, Mike Weaver, and Michael Dokes.\n\nCoetzee started boxing professionally on the night of 14 September 1974, when he beat 19 fight veteran and fellow South African Christian Roos by a decision in four. He followed that win with 21 consecutive wins to reach a record of 22-0 before fighting for the WBA heavyweight title for the first time. Among those wins was one over Roos in a rematch, which Coetzee won by a knockout in three rounds; wins over former world title challengers Ron Stander, Randy Stephens and Pierre Fourie; a South African Heavyweight championship victory against amateur rival Kallie Knoetze (unanimous decision in 10) as well as a first-round knockout of former world heavyweight champion Leon Spinks. With exception of the Spinks bout, held at Monte Carlo, the rest of Coetzee's fights during his early run were held in his native South Africa.\n\nSpinks attacked Coetzee and pressured him, throwing punches from many angles and trying to steam-roll the South African. Coetzee composed himself and a short right hand delivered to Spinks' temple knocked down the former world champion. Coetzee proceeded to drop Spinks two more times to record a technical knockout. The win enhanced Coetzee's reputation as a real title threat in the post-Ali landscape of the heavyweight division.\n\nCoetzee faced John Tate for the WBA heavyweight title that had been left vacant by Muhammad Ali. Coetzee became the first African-born heavyweight ever to challenge for a world title. Coetzee fought a tentative bout and, after holding his own early, faded from the midpoint of the bout onward. Tate won a decision over 15 rounds. Coetzee would reveal later in his career that in his early fighting years, he struggled with self-confidence, particularly in measuring up to American fighters.\n\nThe first major boxing event in South Africa to change the face of sports in apartheid South Africa was the fight between Bob Foster and Pierre Fourie on 1 December 1973. This laid firm foundations for racially mixed boxing in front of racially mixed audiences. Mixed bouts between South Africans were legalised in 1977, but the last vestiges of the colour bar disappeared only two years later when the system of white, black and supreme titles was abolished.\n\nThe first multiracial SA title fights were held at the Rand Stadium in Johannesburg on 27 November 1976 when Gerrie Coetzee and Elijah 'Tap Tap' Makhatini became undisputed champions.\n\nTate lasted only a short time as WBA world titlist, as he was KOd in spectacular last-second fashion by Mike Weaver in his first title defense. In the meantime, Coetzee had maintained his status as a highly rated contender with a win over Mike Koraniki in the first round to keep his title hopes alive. Weaver traveled to South Africa in 1980 to defend his title against Coetzee, fighting in front of a very large crowd. Coetzee dominated the early portions, and had Weaver hurt several times. In the 8th, Weaver was in trouble but Coetzee could not capitalize.\n\nWith the opportunity to finish Weaver gone, Coetzee seemed to wilt. Weaver was beginning to time Coetzee's punches for counters. By round 12 the fight was close to even, with the South African's lead having evaporated. Weaver had survived Coetzee's onslaught and the tide had turned. Coetzee's stamina failed him and he had begun to throw fewer punches after round 9. Coetzee was now leaning and mauling more and was getting hit more often coming in with his unprotected head held high. Weaver was accelerating and was getting the better of exchanges as the bout wore on. Coetzee was knocked down for the first time in his career and out by a big counter punch in the 13th round.\n\nLess than 5 months after the loss against Weaver, Coetzee returned to the ring and beat fringe contender George Chaplin before facing Renaldo Snipes. Coetzee dropped Snipes early and seemed to dominate the action. However, the fight was scored by rounds and not on points, meaning a round won widely with knockdowns was no more valued than a round lost narrowly, and he lost a ten-round decision that was deemed one of the worst of the decade.\n\nCoetzee had gone 5-1 in the 6 fights since the Weaver bout. Among the wins was one over former title challenger Scott Le Doux heading into a bout with the up-and-coming future WBC champion Pinklon Thomas. Again, Coetzee held the edge in the first half of the bout but Thomas rallied to hold Coetzee to a draw. Following his loss to Snipes and draw with Thomas, Coetzee was not considered a strong title contender.\n\nCoetzee received his third world title try against WBA champion Michael Dokes. By now known as someone who could not win \"The Big One\", Coetzee's predicted fate in this bout was to show-case the Don King-promoted Dokes' abilities and status as a rising star.\n\nThe fight took place on 23 September 1983 at the Richfield Coliseum in Richfield, Ohio. Coetzee dominated Dokes after a few rounds of even fighting. The South African led with aggression but also used counter punching as well. Coetzee's poise was apparent, and he boxed more deftly than usual employing more left hooks while still eschewing much in the way of defense, sponging anything Dokes could land and scoring a knockdown. Coetzee knocked out Dokes in the tenth round to become South Africa's first world Heavyweight title holder. He also became the first Caucasian world heavyweight champion in 23 years. The fight was KO Magazine's \"Upset of The Year\" for 1983.\n\nIt turned out that the punch that knocked out Dokes hurt Coetzee even more: his right hand was broken and required surgery five days after the fight, in New York City.\n\nThere was much talk about a unification bout with the recognized best fighter in the division and now International Boxing Federation Champion, Holmes, in 1984, and a contract for a lucrative bout was signed. Holmes possessed only one of the 3 title belts but was recognized by most as the real, bona fide, champion.\n\nFinancial problems arose when the backer of the bout, JPD Sports out of Dallas, Texas, could not raise the original purse necessary. Caesar's Palace spoke of saving the promotion, but it fell through. Don King's involvement as Coetzee's promoter, as well as Larry Holmes' split with King previously also contributed to the bout not being made. Holmes wanted to save the bout which would have earned both him and Coetzee a significant sum of money. Coetzee was personally willing and eager for the bout. He even indicated he was willing to go through with the bout though he would likely enter the ring without the WBA title. The WBA had stated that for the bout to take place with its blessing, it required Holmes to fight as a contender for Coetzee's belt. Or, the WBA would require Coetzee to drop his belt to qualify as a challenger for Holmes'.\n\nHolmes saw no reason for the WBA to preside over a bout between the two men. The WBA insisted Coetzee could not face Holmes, despite the fact Holmes had been recognized as the best heavyweight in the world since 1978. In any event, Coetzee re-injured his hand during training camp, requiring further surgery, and the fight was cancelled.\n\nOn his return to the ring, after an extended absence, Coetzee was paired with Greg Page (the real #1 contender David Bey, refused to go to South Africa as described in \"Only in America: The Life and Crimes of Don King\" by Jack Newfield, Bey became the #1 by outpointing Greg Page over 12 rounds). Page was even more stigmatized by failing to win big fights than was Coetzee. He was seen as supremely talented and like many fighters in the immediate post-Ali era, his size, speed and coordination supposedly portended great expectations of achievement. While Page could look extremely impressive, as against James Tillis for example, he also was seen as lazy and unmotivated.\n\nIn this bout Page did less posing than normal, and did more fighting putting on an energetic performance. Coetzee seemed overconfident, and can be seen delivering a lot of the trash-talking and doing less punching and trying more verbal intimidation such as he used in bouts against Tate and Weaver. But Page was on much better form than when he had lost to Bey. Coetzee for his part was dangerous and while sloppy, was getting his own shots home. The challenger's strong chin nullified Coetzee's power to some extent. The two exchanged momentum. Coetzee's lack of defense was more evident than usual, and he was a sitting duck for Page's counter-punching and his once dependable chin seemed to fail him, being stung and hurt often. His right was not effective, but he was scoring with his left hand. He was dropped after the bell of the 6th round in a foul; and in the 7th legitimately. Page was taking advantage of Coetzee's recklessness. In exchange after exchange as the bout wore on, it was Coetzee, the \"puncher\", losing the skirmishes and being hurt. He was knocked out in Round 8. But, there was controversy.\n\nCoetzee's camp protested that not only had the 8th round run too long, but also that while Coetzee was on the canvas the bell had sounded and the referee's count should have been waved off. Generally, this would have allowed Coetzee to continue for at least one more round. The 8th, the round in question actually did run for almost a minute too long. Despite this, the WBA recognized the result as it happened, and affirmed Page as the winner by a knockout in eight. Coetzee and his camp demanded an immediate rematch. Instead, Page went on to face Tony Tubbs whom he had beaten several times in the amateurs.\n\nAfter losing his title, Coetzee made token attempts at a comeback. He beat the former title challenger and at that time mid-level foe James \"Quick\" Tillis by a decision in ten. Next was a journey to England to fight the big-punching contender Frank Bruno. In the offing would be a shot at the WBA title, since dropped by Page. Coetzee was knocked out in round one. After that fight, he announced his retirement, but came back twice during the 1990s, winning by knockout in three against both Dave Fiddler and Wes Turner in 1993, and then winning against Dan Komiscki in three. Coetzee lost to former world Middleweight and Light Heavyweight champion Iran Barkley by a knockout in ten, after dropping him in round two, for the WBB Superheavyweight belt.\n"}
{"id": "2807753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2807753", "title": "Glen De Boeck", "text": "Glen De Boeck\n\nGlen De Boeck (; born 22 August 1971 in Boom) is a Belgian former football player and manager, who is currently unemployed after last managing Kortrijk in the Belgian First Division A. During his career he played as central defender, mostly on the books of Anderlecht.\n\nIn the summer of 1995, De Boeck was transferred from KV Mechelen to Anderlecht. In the late 1990s, he was criticized by pundits, who claimed he was not good enough for Anderlecht. He eventually increased his technical performances to become one of the best defenders in The Jupiler Pro League in the early 2000s.\n\nIn February 2005, De Boeck decided to end his career due to a heavy knee injury. He made a successful move to coaching to finally become Managing Director of Herculean, the corporate wellbeing company.\n\nHe was directly snapped up by his last club to become an assistant manager, together with Daniel Renders.\n\nOn 23 April 2007, it was revealed that De Boeck would become manager of first division side Cercle Brugge at the end of the 2006-07 season. He succeeded Harm Van Veldhoven, who had already chosen to leave for Germinal Beerschot. On 1 February 2008, the board of directors at Cercle declared De Boeck had signed a new contract until 2011, as he also became the football section's technical director, being made responsible for the further development of the football team. In March 2009, De Boeck denied K.R.C. Genk in signing him as their new coach. Instead he choose to stay with his current club Cercle Brugge. He left Cercle in June 2010 and was named the manager of Germinal Beerschot who were looking for a successor to Jos Daerden who left to become an assistant coach at Dutch club Twente.\n\nOn 30 November 2010, after continuous bad results and disagreements on the management board, he was fired as coach from Germinal Beerschot.\n\nAt the start of the season 2011–2012 De Boeck was appointed as the new manager of VVV-Venlo, but halfway through the season on 6 December 2011, following a 7-0 defeat to Heracles Almelo, he resigned as manager of VVV-Venlo. In November 2012 he signed for Waasland-Beveren, but was released one year later.\n\nIn January 2015 he started a new challenge in the business world as Managing Director for Herculean, the corporate wellbeing company.\n\nDe Boeck made his international debut with Belgium on 6 October 1993, against Gabon (a friendly), going on to represent his country at two World Cups, with three appearances combined.\n\n"}
{"id": "8327581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8327581", "title": "Henry David Leslie", "text": "Henry David Leslie\n\nHenry David Leslie (18 June 1822 – 5 February 1896) was an English composer and conductor. Leslie was a leader in supporting amateur choral musicians in Britain, founding prize-winning amateur choral societies. He was also a supporter of musical higher education, helping to found national music schools.\n\nLeslie was born in London. His parents were John Leslie, a tailor and enthusiastic amateur viola player, and Mary Taylor Leslie. He had eight brothers and sisters. He attended the Palace School in Enfield and worked with his father. As a teenager, he studied the cello with Charles Lucas and later played that instrument in concerts at the Sacred Harmonic Society for several years.\n\nLeslie began to compose music, and in 1840 he published his \"Te Deum and Jubilate in D\". He became honorary secretary of the newly founded Amateur Musical Society in 1847. His symphony in F was performed in 1848 by the Amateur Musical Society under Michael Balfe. The next year, at the Norwich music festival of 1849, his much-admired anthem \"Let God Arise\" was premiered. He conducted the Amateur Musical Society from 1853 until it dissolved in 1861.\n\nLeslie's dramatic overture, \"The Templar\" (1852), was followed by and his well-regarded oratorios \"Immanuel\" (1854) and \"Judith\" (1858), and some chamber music. In 1855, he founded a madrigal society which grew to 200 voices and became known as Henry Leslie's Choir. He was its conductor until 1880. The choir introduced many important choral works to English audiences, including J. S. Bach's 18-part motets. According to \"The Times\", this choir \"held the palm among London societies for finished singing of unaccompanied music, both ancient and modern\".\n\nIn 1857, Leslie married Mary Betsy, one of his pupils, the daughter of physician William Henry Perry. The couple moved to Mary's family home, now known as Bryn Tanat Hall, at Llansanffraid, near Oswestry on the Welsh border. They produced four sons and one daughter. Their son William became a master of the Musicians' Company, and Charles became a cricketer for Middlesex and England.\n\nLeslie's operetta \"Romance, or, Bold Dick Turpin\", first performed in 1857, was presented at Covent Garden in 1860. After this, he wrote the cantatas \"Holyrood\" (1860) and \"Daughter of the Isles\" (1861) and a Jubilate in B (1864). In 1865, he wrote a romantic opera \"Ida, or, The Guardian Storks\". He also conducted the amateur Herefordshire Philharmonic Society from 1863. He published over a hundred part songs for the choir. Some of these became very popular, including the trio \"O memory\", \"The Pilgrims\", and \"Annabelle Lee\" set to a poem by Edgar Allan Poe. His output also included a quantity of chamber and piano music. He also edited collections of part songs, including \"Cassell's Choral Music\", in 1867.\n\nIn 1864, Leslie established a National College of Music, in Piccadilly, and acted as its principal. Its professors included Arthur Sullivan, Julius Benedict, and other prominent musicians, but the college survived only two years. In 1874, he became conductor of the newly formed Guild of Amateur Musicians. In 1878, Leslie and others made another attempt to form a national music school, which was successful and became the predecessor of the Royal College of Music.\n\nLeslie and Sullivan organised the British musical presentations at the Paris Exhibition of 1878. There Henry Leslie's Choir won the first prize at the international choral competition. In 1880, after a royal command performance at Windsor Castle, he dissolved the choir. Later, however, it was re-formed under Alberto Randegger, with Leslie as president, and he resumed conducting it from 1885 to 1887. Charles Santley and other well-known soloists performed with the choir.\n\nLeslie's only major composition later in life was his second symphony, \"Chivalry\", which premiered in 1881 at The Crystal Palace. After he retired, he founded the Oswestry School of Music and its Festival of Village Choirs. At the end of his life, Leslie was ill for several years.\n\nHe died in 1896 in Baschurch, Shropshire, and was buried in the churchyard at Llanyblodwel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41258951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41258951", "title": "Igor Artimovich", "text": "Igor Artimovich\n\nIgor Alexandrovich Artimovich (born March 24, 1982, Kaliningrad Oblast, the USSR, Russian: Игорь Александрович Артимович) is a Russian programmer, hacker, and author of a botnet named Festi.\nHe is known under the pseudonym Engel, such writing of the nickname has an origin from the name of a song of the German rock-group Rammstein.\n\nArtimovich was born in Kalinigrad Oblast, the USSR. At the age of 6 months he moved with his parents to Leningrad Oblast, where he lived until the ending of high school. His first experiences in programming were connected to the Basic language on the ZX Spectrum computer.\n\nIn 1999, Artimovich entered the Saint-Petersburg State University at the faculty of Applied Mathematics, and moved to live to Saint-Petersburg. In 2004, he finished studying, having defended the thesis and having gained the diploma as \"Mathematician\".\n\nFrom 2004, he worked in the Saint-Petersburg branch of Sun Microsystems, in the development of the C compiler which belonged to a set of development tools of the software named Sun Studio. Artimovich's duties consisted in porting the compiler of language C on the amd64 platform and realizing of functionality of the compiler specific to the operating system Linux. In 2008, Artimovich left Sun Microsystems.\n\nArtimovich, in an interview with \"The New York Times\", told that after leaving Sun Microsystems he was engaged in research in the field of information security and computer viruses, and also the development of his own antivirus software for Windows operating systems.\n\nIn summer of 2010, a cyberattack similar to a \"distributed denial of service\" was carried out on the electronic ticket payment system of Aeroflot airline. The attack was so strong that the equipment of the backbone provider of the Internet serving payment system couldn't cope with it, and Aeroflot suspended the online sale of tickets for a week.\n\nIn autumn of 2010, specialists from the anti-virus company ESET conducted research to determine the source of the attack and drew the conclusion that the attack was made with use of the botnet Festi. This cyberattack drew the close attention of Russian intelligence services, and the conclusion was drawn that the founder and the owner of Festi was Artimovich. This was confirmed by American journalist and blogger Brian Krebs, who specializes on information security, in an article titled \"Who Is the ‘Festi’ Botmaster?\", as well as American journalist Andrew Kramer of The New York Times in the article titled \"Online Attack Leads to Peek Into Spam Den\" and also by the report by ESET antivirus company at the conference \"AVAR 2012\" in Hangzhou, China, dedicated to Anti-virus Technologies and Corporate Security.\n"}
{"id": "11034592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11034592", "title": "Jaap Goudsmit", "text": "Jaap Goudsmit\n\nJaap Goudsmit (born 22 July 1951 in Amsterdam) is Dutch scientist, known for his research in the field of AIDS and influenza. Recently he shifted his research interest to neurodegenerative diseases, like Alzheimer's Disease. He is also a prolific writer of non-fiction books: Viral Sex, the Nature of AIDS (1997); Viral Fitness, the Next SARS and West Nile in the Making (2004); Serendipity Manual (2012); The Vaccine Bug, a personal history of the World of Immunity (2013); Immorbidity Alphabet, Spelling-out a life free of dis-ease (2015); The Time of your Life, Staying healthy to the End (2016) and The Art of Facing Mortality, a scientist's view (2016).\n\nJaap Goudsmit was among the first in 1986 who discovered that the amount of HIV in blood predicted the progression to clinically manifest AIDS and he discovered in 2008 the achillesheel of the influenza virus that opened the way towards a universal influenza vaccine. In 2013 Goudsmit coined the concept \"Immorbidity\" for a human life course immune to age-related diseases that prematurely end life, accepting that even with a minimum of disease human life ends. In 2000 the science-fiction writer Wil McCarthy introduced the term \" immorbidity \" in his book \" The Collapsium\" as the concept to eradicate all terminal illness during time transport over lightyears making the transported people virtually immortal.\n\nIn 1978 Jaap Goudsmit received his MD degree with honor at the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Amsterdam. He was awarded a Fogarty fellowship, and joined the research on kuru with Nobel Prize winner Daniel Carleton Gajdusek. He received his PhD from the University of Amsterdam in 1982. He received a Fogarty Visiting Scientist Award to do postdoctoral research at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland. In 1983 Jaap Goudsmit became board certified in the Netherlands as a Medical Microbiologist. From 1989 -2001 he was professor in virology at the University of Amsterdam. One Science paper published in 1990 with Jaap Goudsmit as senior author created a controversy in the Netherlands and concerned a study of blocking of HIV replication by antisense DNA. Despite the fact that Jaap Goudsmit had to retract this paper, he was chosen by his peers in a 1993 Science article as one of the best European AIDS scientists and is still one of the most productive and most cited virologist worldwide.\n\nJaap Goudsmit was appointed professor of virology in 1989 at the Academic Medical Center of the University of Amsterdam, a position he held till 2001. He has been head of the Department of Human Retrovirology at the Academic Medical Center (AMC) of the University of Amsterdam from 1996 to 2002 and chairman of the AMC Research Institute for Infectious Diseases and the AMC Institute for Science Education. From 1984 -2001 he was one of the principal researcher of the Amsterdam Cohort Studies on HIV infection and AIDS among homosexual men and HIV drug users.\nFrom 2001-2016 Jaap Goudsmit was professor of vaccinology and immunoprophylaxis in the department of Internal Medicine at the Academic Medical Center of the University of Amsterdam and in 2016 he became professor of Pathogenesis and natural history of Neurodegenerative diseases in the Department of Neurology, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Academic Medical Center. In 2016 Jaap Goudsmit was appointed professor of epidemiology at the Harvard T.H.Chan School of Public Health.\n\nHe chaired the Scientific Advisory Committee of the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI) and has been a member of its board. He was project leader and (co)chair of Eurovacc Foundation. In 2002 Jaap Goudsmit joined Crucell, a biotechnology company in Leiden, as Chief Medical Officer and Executive Vice President of Vaccine Research and Development. From 2004 -2011 he was Chief Scientific Officer of Crucell and member of the Management Board. When Crucell was acquired by Johnson and Johnson Jaap Goudsmit became head of the Crucell Vaccine Institute from 2011-2015, an institute focusing on influenza research. In 2015 he became global head of the Janssen Prevention Center, that focuses on the prevention of non-communicable diseases with a special emphasis on prognostic markers for age-related diseases. In 2017 Jaap Goudsmit retired from Johnson & Johnson and returned to academia to study Alzheimer's Disease and Ageing. \n\nGoudsmit is a very productive researcher and author or co-author of more than 550 scientific publications of which nine appeared in Science and six in Nature. According to the Institute for Scientific Information, he entered the list of most-cited scientists in 2001. In 2016 Jaap Goudsmit received a honorary degree from the Vrije University and the Vrije University Medical Center for his lifetime achievements in science both in academia and the biofarmaceutical Industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13135064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13135064", "title": "Karl Roche", "text": "Karl Roche\n\nKarl Roche (1862–1931) was a German syndicalist and left communist trade unionist. Roche joined the Free Association of German Trade Unions (FVdG) around 1900 as a seaman. He became a prominent member of the organization. \n\nIn 1913, Carl Windhoff, Fritz Kater, and he were the FVdG delegates at the First International Syndicalist Congress in London. In 1919, he wrote the FVdG's first post-World War I platform \"Was wollen die Syndikalisten? Programm, Ziele und Wege der \"Freien Vereinigung deutscher Gewerkschaften\"\" (\"What do the Syndicalists want? Program, Goals, and Means of the \"Free Association of German Trade Unions\"\"). The program summarized the FVdG's theory: a reaffirmation of the importance of strikes as a vehicle for emancipation and a rejection of the centralized mainstream labor unions. Roche was also a resolute proponent of collaboration with left communists. \n\nIn late 1918, Rudolf Rocker returned to Germany, in March 1919 he joined the FVdG and started gaining influence. An avowed communist anarchist and follower of Kropotkin, Rocker rejected such close collaboration with Marxists. His growing influence led Roche to leave the Free Workers' Union of Germany, as the FVdG was now known, in 1920 and join the General Workers' Union of Germany (AAUD). He became the leader of the AAUD in Hamburg. In the mid-1920s he left the AAUD for the Federation of Communist Anarchists of Germany and then re-joined the FAUD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56677546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56677546", "title": "Kennedy Odede", "text": "Kennedy Odede\n\nKennedy Odede is an internationally recognized social entrepreneur, a \"New York Times\" best selling author, and cofounder of Shining Hope for Communities (SHOFCO), a non-profit organization based in Nairobi, Kenya and New York, NY that combats urban poverty and gender inequity in the slums of Nairobi. Kennedy is one of Africa’s best- known community organizers and social entrepreneurs. Among SHOFCO's accomplishments are setting up and running a free school for girls in the slum, making clean water and medical care accessible and helping dozens of individuals start small businesses. \n\nKennedy, was born in an African village, and lived there until it was struck by famine when he was just two years old. Desperate for a better life, his mother moved the family to the city. But, given the lack of jobs and housing in Nairobi, they ended up in the slum. When Kennedy Odede was a kid, he foraged for food, lived on the streets of Kibera, and taught himself to read with old newspapers. He lived in the Kibera Slum for twenty- three years and experienced the devastating realities of life in extreme poverty first hand. The oldest of eight children, Kennedy became a street-child at the age of ten. Influenced by the non violence principles of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., he imagined how he could change his community. In 2004 he had a job in a factory earning $1 for ten hours of work. He saved 20 cents and used this to buy a soccer ball and start (SHOFCO). Although he was entirely informally educated, Kennedy received a full scholarship to Wesleyan University, becoming one of Kibera’s first to receive an education from an American liberal arts institution.\n\nDriven by the innovation and entrepreneurial spirits of the people of Kibera, SHOFCO became the largest grassroots organization in the Kibera. Kennedy was awarded the 2010 Echoing Green Fellowship, which is given to the world’s best emerging social entrepreneurs. He was named to FORBES \"30 under 30 list\" for top Social Entrepreneurs in He won the 2010 Dell Social Innovation Competition, and is a member of the Clinton Global Initiative. His work has been featured by President Bill Clinton, on NBC by Chelsea Clinton and Maria Menounos, and on multiple occasions by Nicholas Kristof in \"The New York Times\". Kennedy previously served on the United Nations International Commission for Financing of Global Education Opportunities. He also serves on the Wangari Maathai Foundation board, chairs the Varkey Foundation Alliance for Girls’ Education, and is a senior fellow with Humanity in Action and an Aspen Institute New Voices Fellow. \n\nKennedy speaks six languages. He graduated in 2012 as the Commencement Speaker and with honors in Sociology from Wesleyan University and served on the Wesleyan Board of Trustees. He is the co-author of an autobiography, \"Find Me Unafraid: Love, Loss, and Hope in an African Slum that\" tells the uncommon love story between him and his wife, Jessica Posner, whose collaboration sparked a successful movement to transform the lives of vulnerable girls and the urban poor. In August 2018, their son Oscar Garvey Odede was born.\n"}
{"id": "5582885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5582885", "title": "Khalid al-Juhani", "text": "Khalid al-Juhani\n\nKhalid Mohammad bin Muslim Al-Arawi Al-Juhani (, also known as Mu'awiyah al-Madani) was a Saudi member of al-Qaeda. He appeared, cradling a rifle, in a 2002 videotape in which he promised a \"martyrdom\" attack. In 2003, the Saudi government identified al-Juhani as one of twelve dead perpetrators of the Riyadh compound bombings based on DNA found at the scene.\n\nAl-Juhani was once a bodyguard for Osama bin Laden. He fled Afghanistan, along with Saleh al-Oufi, in late 2001 following the American invasion.\n\nOn January 14, 2002, a series of five video cassettes were recovered from the rubble of the destroyed home of Mohammad Atef outside of Kabul, Afghanistan. The tapes showed Abderraouf Jdey, Ramzi bin al-Shibh, Muhammad Sa'id Ali Hasan, Abd Al-Rahim, and al-Juhani vowing to die as martyrs. It was the first time authorities had reason to suspect him of any wrongdoing. NBC News said the videos had been recorded after the September 11 terrorist attacks.\n\nAfter the tape was discovered, and the Saudi newspaper Al-Watan contacted\nhis family members, they said he spent three years fighting in Afghanistan from the time he was 18 years old, and another three years fighting in Chechnya. They believed he had been left mentally ill \"as a result of pressure he faced during the [Afghan] war\".\n\nHe fled Afghanistan during the American invasion, and moved to Yemen, before moving to Riyadh in 2003. In Saudi Arabia, Karim el-Mejjati agreed to allow al-Juhani to live with his family. He tried to find a wife for al-Juhani, who was not supposed to be involved in any more fighting. \n\nOn March 23, 2003, el-Mejjati's wife and 10-year-old son, Ilyass, left the city to try to reach an ophthalmologist. They had been originally intended to travel with al-Juhani, which caught the attention of the Mabahith secret police. However, al-Juhani argued he wasn't feeling well and asked a brother and his wife to instead accompany el-Mejjati and her son. The group was nonetheless arrested by authorities who hoped that al-Juhani was present.\n\nAl-Juhani was identified as one of the twelve suicide bombers in the May 2003 suicide bombing attacks in Riyadh.\n"}
{"id": "5227737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5227737", "title": "Landscape manager", "text": "Landscape manager\n\nLandscape managers are professionally trained and qualified experts in landscaping management for conservation and recreation stewardship of designed and natural landscapes.\n\nLandscape managers work with designed landscapes, such as public parks, private gardens and public botanic gardens, and golf courses and sports centers. They also work with natural landscapes, such as nature reserves, natural open space parks, and national parks.\n\nThe United Kingdom Landscape Institute has a landscape management division whose members describe themselves as landscape architects. There are undergraduate degree programs leading to qualifications in landscape management and membership of professional institutes.\n\nIn the United States 4-year undergraduate degrees are offered for dual majors of Construction management and Ornamental horticulture or Landscape architecture.\n\n"}
{"id": "45423614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45423614", "title": "Leszek of Dobrzyń", "text": "Leszek of Dobrzyń\n\nLeszek of Dobrzyń (pl: \"Leszek dobrzyński\"; bef. 1302 - bef. 10 July 1316), was a Polish prince member of the House of Piast and Duke of Dobrzyń during 1312-1316 with his brothers.\n\nHe was the eldest son of Siemowit of Dobrzyń and Anastasia, daughter of Leo I of Halych-Peremyshl. \n\nThe only known fact about him was his mention in the testimony of Jan of Kisielew during the Polish-Teutonic trial in Warsaw in 1339; because this is the only contemporary source who named him, his existence is a matter of dispute between historians. If he was a real person, certainly died young, in or before 1316, still under the regency of his mother and uncle Władysław I.\n\n"}
{"id": "22740507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22740507", "title": "Levi Johnston", "text": "Levi Johnston\n\nLevi Keith Johnston (born May 3, 1990) is an American model and actor, best known as the twice-former fiancé of Bristol Palin and father of their son Tripp. He first received media attention in August 2008 when U.S. vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin announced that her daughter Bristol was five months pregnant with Johnston's baby and that the two were engaged. Ultimately, the couple ended their relationship, and Johnston and the Palin family engaged in several public feuds.\n\nAfter working in the Alaskan oil fields, Johnston began pursuing a career in the entertainment industry, aspiring to be a model and an actor. He has written a book based on his experiences with the Palins, titled \"Deer in the Headlights\".\n\nJohnston was born in Wasilla, Alaska, the first born child of Sherry (née Sampson) and Keith Johnston. Levi has one sibling, Mercede \"Sadie\" Johnston. Levi attended Wasilla High School, where he played on the hockey team, but did not graduate. He worked full-time on the Alaska North Slope oil fields as an apprentice electrician, quitting in January 2009.\n\nAccording to Johnston, he and Bristol Palin began dating during their freshman year of high school. After losing a promise ring on a caribou hunt, Johnston had Bristol's name tattooed on his finger.\n\nFollowing the announcement that she would be Senator John McCain's running mate in the November, 2008 U.S. presidential election, Sarah Palin announced that her daughter Bristol was pregnant by Johnston, and that the two would be married. Johnston denied claims that he was being pressured into a shotgun wedding, stating, \"We were planning on getting married a long time ago with or without the kid. That was the plan from the start.\" The couple's son, Tripp Easton Mitchell Johnston, was born in December 2008, but the two broke off their engagement in March 2009. In May 2009, Johnston said that their relationship was improving and that they were determined to jointly raise Tripp. Later, Bristol began a child custody case against Johnston, seeking sole custody and child support.\n\nIn July 2010, Bristol Palin and Johnston announced that they had reunited and were engaged for the second time; less than three weeks later, they ended their second engagement.\n\nJohnston married Sunny Oglesby (born 1992) on October 28, 2012. A month prior to the wedding, the couple's first daughter, Breeze Beretta Johnston, was born. Their second daughter, Indy Rae Johnston, was born in January 2015.\n\nJohnston attended the 2008 Republican National Convention with the Palin family. While Sarah Palin was delivering her prime-time nomination acceptance speech, the cameras frequently cut away to Johnston and Bristol. Johnston shook hands onstage with Sarah Palin's running mate, Republican presidential candidate, Senator John McCain, and was treated as a member of Palin's family. Fox News commentator Dick Morris remarked that McCain's decision to welcome Johnston to the stage was a good move because it would help McCain show \"a nonjudgmental\", tolerant attitude, while still sending the message that unwed teens who become pregnant should marry.\n\nAfter his 2009 breakup with Bristol, Johnston gave a series of nationally televised interviews. He appeared on \"The Tyra Banks Show\" with his mother and sister, saying he wanted to dispel rumors. Remarking on Bristol's public appearances to promote sexual abstinence, Johnston told \"The Early Show\" that \"abstinence is a great idea\" but said it was unrealistic to think it is going to work for teens. In another interview he said that he was \"pretty sure\" Sarah Palin had known that he and Bristol were having sex in the family's house.\n\nThe Palin family denounced Johnston's statements as lies, with one public statement reading, \"We're disappointed that Levi and his family, in a quest for fame, attention, and fortune, are engaging in flat-out lies, gross exaggeration, and even distortion of their relationship.\"\n\nIn August 2009, Johnston speculated that Sarah Palin's early resignation from office was due to long-standing marital difficulties, the pressures of the job, and lucrative book and other media offers. In a September 2009 \"Vanity Fair\" interview, Johnston alleged that Sarah Palin initially wanted the couple to keep Bristol's pregnancy a secret and offered to adopt the baby and raise him as her own, but that he and Bristol rejected the plan. In response, Sarah told the media Johnston's statements were \"untrue, malicious, and appalling\", emphasizing that she highly appreciated her children and commenting that Johnston's photoshoots were \"attention-seeking and desperate\".\n\nIn July 2010, a week prior to the announcement that he and Bristol were engaged a second time, Johnston issued a statement saying \"I publicly said things about the Palins that were not completely true. I have already privately apologized to Todd and Sarah. Since my statements were public, I owe it to the Palins to publicly apologize.\" After the brief second engagement ended, Johnston said that he regretted issuing the apology, saying, \"it kind of makes me sound like a liar. I've never lied about anything.\"\n\nIn August 2010, Johnston announced that he would be running in the October 2011 election for mayor of Wasilla, Alaska, saying he wanted his son, Tripp, to be proud of him. The then-current mayor, Verne E. Rupright, responded that Johnston's announcement was a little early, and advised him to get a high school diploma, and keep his clothes on, a reference to Johnston's modeling career. Bristol Palin responded that she \"never knew he had political aspirations. I'm glad that Levi has not given up on completing his education and is looking for steady employment.\" Johnston's manager stated he hoped to copy the rise of Sarah Palin from mayor of Wasilla to governor of Alaska, \"creating a rural, Alaskan version of the Bush political dynasty.\" It was reported that Johnston's bid for mayor would tie into his proposed reality television series.\n\nOn September 3, 2010, Public Policy Polling reported that Johnston had become the most unpopular person polled in his home state, with a six percent approval and 72 percent disapproval rating, replacing former Democratic presidential candidate and senator John Edwards.\n\nOn August 23, 2011, six weeks before the October 4 election, Johnston announced through his attorney that he would not be running, citing his busy schedule promoting his new book. His manager stated that \"Levi doesn't want the office of the Mayor to be a joke\", adding that \"there are a lot of issues that he would need to study up on and he thinks that this isn't the right time for him to be Mayor.\"\n\nJohnston hired Anchorage, Alaska, attorney Rex Butler (who was previously best known for representing criminal defendants and handling civil litigation) to represent him in his pursuit of a career in the entertainment industry. The \"Associated Press\" reported in July 2009 that Johnston was also pursuing a movie deal.\n\nJohnston and comedian Kathy Griffin attended the 2009 Teen Choice Awards together. She later stated that he was \"surprisingly sweet and courteous\" to her. Johnston and Griffin's acquaintance is documented in the sixth season of Griffin's reality television series, \"\". Additionally, as a gag in her stand-up comedy routine, Griffin often referred to the acquaintance as a relationship, and Johnston as her boyfriend.\n\nIn October 2009, Johnston appeared in a television commercial for Roll International, makers of Wonderful Pistachios, as part of their \"Get Crackin\" advertising campaign. The commercial features Johnston, with a bodyguard, opening a pistachio as a voice-over states, \"Now Levi Johnston does it with protection.\"\n\nIt was reported that Johnston would pose fully nude for \"Playgirl\" magazine; however, following a statement by Sarah Palin that referred to Johnston's \"aspiring porn career\", it was announced that Johnston's photo shoot would not include full frontal nudity.\n\nPolitico reported in April 2010 that Johnston was writing on a memoir \"that would air the true story of the Palin household.\" Johnston's book, \"Deer in the Headlights: My Life in Sarah Palin's Crosshairs\", was published in September 2011.\n\nJohnston appeared as a celebrity coach to Logan Cummins in the pilot of a reality television show titled \"Mansformation\" released in May 2013.\n\nOn September 28, 2010, Ben Folds and Nick Hornby released an album called \"Lonely Avenue\", which featured a track entitled \"Levi Johnston's Blues\". The song provides an account of Johnston's story, based on actual posts Johnston had uploaded to his own MySpace webpage.\n\nAlaska singer-songwriter Marian Call has said that \"The Avocado Song\" was inspired by Levi Johnston.\n\nIn the HBO film \"Game Change\" (2012), Johnston is portrayed by actor Justin Gaston.\n\n"}
{"id": "3708045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3708045", "title": "Linley Frame", "text": "Linley Frame\n\nLinley Margaret Frame (born 12 November 1971), is an Australian competitive swimmer who won a gold medal in the 100-metre breaststroke at the 1991 FINA World Aquatics Championships, and represented Australia at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, coming in 15th and 19th in her breaststroke events.\n\nAt the Australian Institute of Sport (AIS) she was coached by Terry Gathercole. She was named AIS Athlete of the Year in 1991.\n\nIn 1996, Frame retired from swimming after developing chronic fatigue syndrome.\n\nFrame was a poolside interviewer for Channel Seven at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, and was a studio pundit for the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens. \n\nIn 2009, Frame made a comeback to swimming. Competing at the 2009 World Masters Games, she won a gold medal in the W35-39 50m breaststroke event, beating the second-place swimmer by more than 3 seconds. Frame now holds FINA Masters World Records for the W40-44 age group in 50m breaststroke and 100m breaststroke events. She competed at the 2014 FINA World Masters Championships in Montreal, and won gold medals in the W40-44 50m, 100m and 200m breaststroke events.\n\n, Frame works at Swimming Victoria as Athlete and Coach Liaison Officer. Since 2001, she has been an ambassador for Red Dust Role Models, a charity that visits remote Aboriginal communities throughout the Northern Territory and Western Australia, teaching children the importance of a healthy lifestyle and good education.\n\n"}
{"id": "48701433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48701433", "title": "Lisel Alamilla", "text": "Lisel Alamilla\n\nLisel Alamilla is a conservationist and politician from Belize. In 2012, Alamilla was appointed as a senator and member of the Belize Cabinet as Minister of Forestry, Fisheries & Sustainable Development. She served until 2015. Alamilla won the 2012 Whitley Award for Inspirational Conservational Leadership.\n\nLisel Alamilla was born on September 5, 1967, her parents are Maclovio Alamilla and Rose Magda Alamilla. She has four siblings Luis, Giovanni, Tania and Eder++. She was born Belize City. As a child she lived in Belize City and Benque Viejo del Carmen. Alamilla earned a Master’s Degree in Conservation Social Science from the University of Idaho College of Natural Resources in 1995. She earned her Bachelor Degree in 1993 from Northeastern Illinois University. She is a graduate from Saint John's Junior College and Saint Catherine's Academy, an all girls high school. \n\nLisel Alamilla was the Executive Director of the Ya’axché Conservation Trust from 2008 until 2012 where she worked to protect the Mayan Golden Landscape in southern Belize. Prior to her job at Ya’axché, Alamilla worked at Fauna and Flora International as Country Director for Belize. In 2012, Alamilla won the Whitley Award for Inspirational Conservational Leadership from the Whitney Fund for Nature.\n\nIn 2012, Alamilla was appointed as a senator and member of the Belize Cabinet as Minister of Forestry, Fisheries & Sustainable Development by Prime Minister, Dean Barrow. With new appointments by Barrow in November 2015, Alamilla is no longer a senator or Belize Cabinet Minister.\n\nIn November 2015 Alamilla was appointed to establish and Chair the Toledo Maya Land Rights Commission which is tasked to implement in consultation with the Maya people or their representative the Consent Order, which aims to develop the legislative, administrative and governance framework to recognize Maya customary land tenure is the Toledo District, Belize. \n"}
{"id": "29513351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29513351", "title": "Lists of offshore wind farms by water area", "text": "Lists of offshore wind farms by water area\n\nLists of offshore wind farms by water area include:\n\n"}
{"id": "43948637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43948637", "title": "Louis Breithaupt (tanner)", "text": "Louis Breithaupt (tanner)\n\nLouis Breithaupt (November 8, 1827 – July 3, 1880) was a German-born tanner and politician in Ontario, Canada. He served as mayor of Berlin from 1879 to 1880.\n\nThe son of Liborius Breithaupt, a tanner, and Catherine Goetze, he was born in Allendorf, Kurhessen, was educated in Germany and learned the tanner's trade. Breithaupt came to Buffalo, New York with his family in 1844. He operated a tannery in partnership with his father; after his father's death, he took on a partner and continued in business until 1861, when he sold his share and moved to Berlin.\n\nIn 1853, he had married Catharine Hailer of Berlin. He had met his future wife while on a trip to Canada to buy sheepskins. Hailer was the daughter of businessman Jacob Hailer, an early German immigrant to the area. In 1857, Breithaupt opened a tannery in Berlin in partnership with Jacob Wagner, who died in 1858. His tannery in Berlin was destroyed by fire in 1867 and 1870, but Breithaupt rebuilt each time.\n\nHe died in 1880 while still in office as the mayor of Berlin.\n"}
{"id": "24020683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24020683", "title": "Mahapratisara", "text": "Mahapratisara\n\nMahapratisara (Ch: 大随求菩薩; Jp: \"Daizuigu\") is a Bodhisattva belonging to the Mahayana and Vajrayana sects. She is sometimes presented as the consort of Vairocana. \n"}
{"id": "30033844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30033844", "title": "Marie Rose Ferron", "text": "Marie Rose Ferron\n\nMarie Rose Ferron (24 May 1902 – 11 May 1936), often called the Little Rose, was a Canadian-American Roman Catholic mystic and stigmatist.\n\nFerron was born in Saint-Germain-de-Grantham, Quebec, as the tenth child of a large devoutly Catholic family which moved to Fall River, Massachusetts in 1906. It is said that she was six years old when she had her first vision of Jesus, as a child, carrying a cross. \"He was looking at me with sadness in His eyes,\" she once said.\n\nAt the age of 13, Ferron was stricken with a mysterious paralysis and painful contraction of the muscles, forcing her to walk with crutches for several years until her twisted and clubbed feet confined her to a bed for the rest of her life. Because her muscles would sometimes painfully contract, making it very difficult to straighten once again, a flat board was placed on her narrow bed to which she was rigidly strapped. She also suffered an intestinal problem that made it difficult to digest solid food and contracted tetanus and pyorrhea.\n\nThe family relocated to Woonsocket, Rhode Island in 1925, where, the following year, her stigmata first appeared. By Lent 1927 the wounds began to appear regularly every Friday. Ferron lived in constant pain until her death in 1936 at the age of 33. The number of mourners attending her funeral attest to her popularity in the Franco-American community.\n\nHer stigmata (including a crown of thorns) were repeatedly photographed. There are those that have considered her the first American stigmatist. An inquiry into the cause of Ferron's canonization was conducted by Bishop Russell McVinney of Providence, Rhode Island and ended in 1964 with the bishop deciding against further proceedings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42476597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42476597", "title": "Martin Schechter", "text": "Martin Schechter\n\nMartin T. Schechter (born December 16, 1951) is a Canadian epidemiologist recognized for contributions to HIV research, prevention and treatments and to addiction research. He is a professor and founding director of the School of Population and Public Health in the Faculty of Medicine at the University of British Columbia (UBC). Schechter received his Order of British Columbia in 1994 alongside BC's first Nobel Prize laureate Michael Smith. He now serves as Chief Scientific Officer of the Michael Smith Foundation for Health Research.\n\nSchechter completed his BA in Mathematics at York University (1973), his MA in Mathematics at UBC (1975), his PhD in Mathematics at the Polytechnic Institute of New York (1977), his MD in Medicine at McMaster University (1981) and his MSc in Epidemiology at the University of Toronto (1983).\n\nSchechter combines interests in clinical epidemiology and health services research with HIV/AIDS and urban health research including opioid addiction research. He is the author of more than 350 peer-reviewed publications and 530 abstracts and scholarly presentations.\n\nWhen Schechter first began his work on AIDS research in 1983, there were no reported cases yet in British Columbia and embracing the necessity of an appropriate and humane response to HIV infection was not a popular activity at that time. Airing public service announcements about condoms in movie theatres caused a public and private debate between Schechter and then-Premier of British Columbia Bill Vander Zalm. Had HIV not been such an emerging health crisis, Schechter likely would have continued in the field of breast cancer.\n\nIn 1989, he helped organize the Fifth International Conference on AIDS in Montreal as a member of its steering committee. In 1990, he was invited by the World Health Organization to participate on its 10-member Steering Committee on Epidemiology, Forecasting and Surveillance that was monitoring the scale of the AIDS epidemic and advising on prevention programs in the early period of the epidemic.\n\nSchechter co-founded the Canadian HIV Trials Network in 1990 with John Ruedy and Julio Montaner. Under Schechter's leadership as National Director from 1992-2014, the Network grew to become a nationwide collaboration of researchers, people living with HIV/AIDS and facilities to investigate treatments, preventions and vaccines for HIV/AIDS.\n\nIn 1992, he co-founded and was a director of the British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS. He was also founding President of the Canadian Association for HIV Research in 1991.\n\nIn 1996, Schechter co-chaired the XI International AIDS Conference in Vancouver which attracted 15,000 delegates from around the world. It was at this global conference that the benefits of triple-therapy HAART were first fully revealed.\n\nIn 2004, he co-founded the Canadian Academy of Health Sciences, serving as its first President-Elect from 2004-2007 and second President from 2007-2009.\n\nSchechter was the principal investigator and co-authored a study published in the New England Journal of Medicine about the controversial North American Opiate Medication Initiative (NAOMI). The 2005-2008 study compared the use of diacetylmorphine (heroin) and methadone in street addicts. In the NAOMI study, researchers selected 250 subjects in Vancouver and Montreal with at least five years of heroin addiction and who had twice previously not benefited from addiction treatment including methadone maintenance. Providing injections of medically prescribed heroin in a clinic setting was projected to save about $40,000 per person in lifetime societal costs compared to methadone. The study found those receiving the effective element of heroin were 62 per cent more likely to remain in addiction treatment and 40 per cent less likely to take street drugs and commit crimes to support their habit than those given methadone.\n\nSchechter is involved in the follow-up to NAOMI, the Study to Assess Longer-term Opioid Medication Effectiveness (SALOME) funded by Canadian Institutes of Health Research. In 2013, Federal Health Minister Rona Ambrose controversially cancelled an approval from Health Canada regarding compassionate use of heroin for some research subjects after they completed the trial. Schechter questioned the value placed on research evidence by the federal government. The BMJ requested and published his commentary \"Drug users should be able to get heroin from the health system\" in April 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "240058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=240058", "title": "Masculinity", "text": "Masculinity\n\nMasculinity (also called manhood or manliness) is a set of attributes, behaviors, and roles associated with boys and men. As a social construct, it is distinct from the definition of the male biological sex. Standards of manliness or masculinity vary across different cultures and historical periods. Both males and females can exhibit masculine traits and behavior.\n\nTraits traditionally viewed as masculine in Western society include strength, courage, independence, violence, and assertiveness. Machismo is a form of masculinity that emphasizes power and is often associated with a disregard for consequences and responsibility. Virility (from the Latin \"\", \"man\") is similar to masculinity, but especially emphasizes strength, energy, and sex drive.\n\nMasculine qualities and roles are considered typical of, appropriate for, and expected of boys and men. The concept of masculinity varies historically and culturally; although the dandy was seen as a 19th-century ideal of masculinity, he is considered effeminate by modern standards. Masculine norms, as described in Ronald F. Levant's \"Masculinity Reconstructed\", are \"avoidance of femininity; restricted emotions; sex disconnected from intimacy; pursuit of achievement and status; self-reliance; strength and aggression, and homophobia\". These norms reinforce gender roles by associating attributes and characteristics with one gender.\n\nThe academic study of masculinity received increased attention during the late 1980s and early 1990s, with the number of courses on the subject in the United States rising from 30 to over 300. This has sparked investigation of the intersection of masculinity with other axes of social discrimination and concepts from other fields, such as the social construction of gender difference (prevalent in a number of philosophical and sociological theories).\n\nBoth males and females can exhibit masculine traits and behavior. Those exhibiting both masculine and feminine characteristics are considered androgynous, and feminist philosophers have argued that gender ambiguity may blur gender classification.\n\nSince what constitutes masculinity has varied by time and place, according to Raewyn Connell, it is more appropriate to discuss \"masculinities\" than a single overarching concept. Study of the history of masculinity emerged during the 1980s, aided by the fields of women's and (later) gender history. Before women's history was examined, there was a \"strict gendering of the public/private divide\"; regarding masculinity, this meant little study of how men related to the household, domesticity and family life. Although women's historical role was negated, despite the writing of history by (and primarily about) men, a significant portion of the male experience was missing. This void was questioned during the late 1970s, when women's history began to analyze gender and women to deepen the female experience. Joan Scott's seminal article, calling for gender studies as an analytical concept to explore society, power and discourse, laid the foundation for this field.\n\nAccording to Scott, gender should be used in two ways: productive and produced. Productive gender examined its role in creating power relationships, and produced gender explored the use and change of gender throughout history. This has influenced the field of masculinity, as seen in Pierre Bourdieu's definition of masculinity: produced by society and culture, and reproduced in daily life. A flurry of work in women's history led to a call for study of the male role (initially influenced by psychoanalysis) in society and emotional and interpersonal life. Connell wrote that these initial works were marked by a \"high level of generality\" in \"broad surveys of cultural norms\". The scholarship was aware of contemporary societal changes aiming to understand and evolve (or liberate) the male role in response to feminism.John Tosh calls for a return to this aim for the history of masculinity to be useful, academically and in the public sphere.\n\nAncient literature dates back to about 3000 BC, with explicit expectations for men in the form of laws and implied masculine ideals in myths of gods and heroes. In the Hebrew Bible of 1000 BC, King David of Israel told his son, \"I go the way of all the earth: be thou strong therefore, and shew thyself a man;\" after David's death. Throughout history, men have met exacting cultural standards. Kate Cooper wrote about ancient concepts of femininity, \"Wherever a woman is mentioned a man's character is being judged – and along with it what he stands for.\" According to the \"Code of Hammurabi\" (about 1750 BC):\nScholars cite integrity and equality as masculine values in male-male relationships and virility in male-female relationships. Legends of ancient heroes include the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\". The stories demonstrate qualities in the hero which inspire respect, such as wisdom and courage: knowing things other men do not know and taking risks other men would not dare.\n\nJeffrey Richards describes a European \"medieval masculinity which was essentially Christian and chivalric\". Courage, respect for women of all classes and generosity characterize the portrayal of men in literary history. The Anglo-Saxons Hengest and Horsa and Beowulf are examples of medieval masculine ideals. According to David Rosen, the traditional view of scholars (such as J. R. R. Tolkien) that \"Beowulf\" is a tale of medieval heroism overlooks the similarities between Beowulf and the monster Grendel. The masculinity exemplified by Beowulf \"cut[s] men off from women, other men, passion and the household\".\n\nDuring the Victorian era, masculinity underwent a transformation from traditional heroism. Scottish philosopher Thomas Carlyle wrote in 1831: \"The old ideal of Manhood has grown obsolete, and the new is still invisible to us, and we grope after it in darkness, one clutching this phantom, another that; Werterism, Byronism, even Brummelism, each has its day\".\n\nBoxing was professionalized in America and Europe in the 19th century, and emphasized the physical and confrontational aspects of masculinity. Bare-knuckle fighting without gloves represented \"the manly art\" in 19th century America.\n\nAt the beginning of the twentieth century, a traditional family consisted of the father as breadwinner and the mother as homemaker. Despite women's increasing participation in the paid labor force and contributions to family income, men's identities remained centered on their working lives and specifically their economic contributions. Central to adult men's identities is the provider role, as masculinity is often measured by the size of one's paycheck/economic contribution to the family. Masculinity is also secured by denying any semblance of softness, emotion, femininity, or any characteristic associated with women and femininity.\n\nOverwhelmingly, the construction of masculinity most valued in the latter part of the twentieth century to today is one that is independent, sexually assertive, and athletic, among other normative markers of manhood. Social theorist Erving Goffman's seminal work on stigma management presents a list of traits prescribed as categorically masculine for contemporary men:In an important sense there is only one complete unblushing male in America: a young, married, white, urban, northern, heterosexual Protestant father of college education, fully employed, or good complexion, weight and height, and a recent record in sports.\n\nThere is some evidence of masculinities undergoing shifts in the contemporary social landscape. Characteristic of present-day masculinity is men's willingness to counter stereotypes. Regardless of age or nationality, men more frequently rank good health, a harmonious family life and a good relationship with their spouse or partner as important to their quality of life.\n\nIn many cultures, displaying characteristics not typical of one's gender may be a social problem. In sociology, this labeling is known as gender assumptions and is part of socialization to meet the mores of a society. Non-standard behavior may be considered indicative of homosexuality, despite the fact that gender expression, gender identity and sexual orientation are widely accepted as distinct concepts. When sexuality is defined in terms of object choice (as in early sexology studies), male homosexuality is interpreted as effeminacy. Social disapproval of excessive masculinity may be expressed as \"machismo\" or by neologisms such as \"testosterone poisoning\".\n\nThe relative importance of socialization and genetics in the development of masculinity is debated. Although social conditioning is believed to play a role, psychologists and psychoanalysts such as Sigmund Freud and Carl Jung believed that aspects of \"feminine\" and \"masculine\" identity are subconsciously present in all human males.\n\nThe historical development of gender roles is addressed by behavioural genetics, evolutionary psychology, human ecology, anthropology and sociology. All human cultures seem to encourage gender roles in literature, costume and song; examples may include the epics of Homer, the Hengist and Horsa tales and the normative commentaries of Confucius. More specialized treatments of masculinity may be found in the \"Bhagavad Gita\" and the bushidō of \"Hagakure\".\n\nThe sources of gender identity are debated. Some believe that masculinity is linked to the male body; in this view, masculinity is associated with male genitalia. Others have suggested that although masculinity may be influenced by biology, it is also a cultural construct. Proponents of this view argue that women can become men hormonally and physically, and many aspects of masculinity assumed to be natural are linguistically and culturally driven. On the nurture side of the debate, it is argued that masculinity does not have a single source. Although the military has a vested interest in constructing and promoting a specific form of masculinity, it does not create it. Facial hair is linked to masculinity through language, in stories about boys becoming men when they begin to shave.\n\nIn contrast to earlier perspectives of the nature versus nurture debate, contemporary social scientists suggest masculinity to stem from both nature \"and\" nurture, as both biological predispositions and social factors intersect to give rise to masculine gender identities. Scholars suggest that innate differences between the sexes are compounded and/or exaggerated by the influences of social factors.\n\nSocial scientists conceptualize masculinity (and femininity) as a performance. Gender performances may not necessarily be intentional and people may not even be aware of the extent to which they are performing gender, as one outcome of lifelong gender socialization is the feeling that one's gender is \"natural\" or biologically-ordained.\n\nThe social construction of gender also conceptualizes gender as a continuum. Theorists suggest one is not simply masculine or feminine, but instead may display components of both masculinity and femininity to different degrees and in particular contexts.\n\nMasculine performance varies over the life course, but also from one context to another. For instance, the sports world may elicit more traditionally normative masculinities in participants than would other settings. Men who exhibit a tough and aggressive masculinity on the sports field may display a softer masculinity in familial contexts. Masculinities vary by social class as well. Studies suggest working class constructions of masculinity to be more normative than are those from middle class men and boys. As these contexts and comparisons illustrate, theorists suggest a multiplicity of masculinities, not simply one single construction of masculinity.\n\nTraditional avenues for men to gain honor were providing for their families and exercising leadership. Raewyn Connell has labeled traditional male roles and privileges hegemonic masculinity, encouraged in men and discouraged in women: \"Hegemonic masculinity can be defined as the configuration of gender practice which embodies the currently accepted answer to the problem of the legitimacy of patriarchy, which guarantees the dominant position of men and the subordination of women\". Connell (1987) placed emphasis on heterosexuality and its influence on the construction of gender. From this perspective, in every social system there is a dominant (hegemonic) and idealised form of masculinity and an apotheosised form of femininity that is considered as proper for men and women. This idealised form of masculinity (hegemonic masculinity) legitimates and normalises certain performances of men, and pathologises, marginalises, and subordinates any other expressions of masculinities or femininities (masculine and feminine subject positions). Alongside hegemonic masculinity, Connell postulated that there are other forms of masculinities (marginalised and subordinated), which according to the findings of a plethora of studies are constructed in oppressive ways (Thorne 1993). This is symptomatic of the fact that hegemonic masculinity is relational, which means that it is constructed in relation to and against an Other (emphasised femininity, marginalised and subordinated masculinities). In addition to describing forceful articulations of violent masculine identities, hegemonic masculinity has also been used to describe implicit, indirect, or coercive forms of gendered socialisation, enacted through video games, fashion, humour, and so on.\n\nResearchers have argued that the \"precariousness\" of manhood contributes to traditionally-masculine behavior. \"Precarious\" means that manhood is not inborn, but must be achieved. In many cultures, boys endure painful initiation rituals to become men. Manhood may also be lost, as when a man is derided for not \"being a man\". Researchers have found that men respond to threats to their manhood by engaging in stereotypically-masculine behaviors and beliefs, such as supporting hierarchy, espousing homophobic beliefs, supporting aggression and choosing physical tasks over intellectual ones.\n\nIn 2014, Winegard and Geary wrote that the precariousness of manhood involves social status (prestige or dominance), and manhood may be more (or less) precarious due to the avenues men have for achieving status. Men who identify with creative pursuits, such as poetry or painting, may not experience manhood as precarious but may respond to threats to their intelligence or creativity. However, men who identify with traditionally-masculine pursuits (such as football or the military) may see masculinity as precarious. According to Winegard, Winegard, and Geary, this is functional; poetry and painting do not require traditionally-masculine traits, and attacks on those traits should not induce anxiety. Football and the military require traditionally-masculine traits, such as pain tolerance, endurance, muscularity and courage, and attacks on those traits induce anxiety and may trigger retaliatory impulses and behavior. This suggests that nature-versus-nurture debates about masculinity may be simplistic. Although men evolved to pursue prestige and dominance (status), how they pursue status depends on their talents, traits and available possibilities. In modern societies, more avenues to status may exist than in traditional societies and this may mitigate the precariousness of manhood (or of traditional manhood); however, it will probably not mitigate the intensity of male-male competition.\n\nAlthough often ignored in discussions of masculinity, women can also express masculine traits and behaviors. In Western culture, female masculinity has been codified into identities such as \"tomboy\" and \"butch\". Although female masculinity is often associated with lesbianism, expressing masculinity is not necessarily related to a woman's sexuality. In feminist philosophy, female masculinity is often characterized as a type of gender performance which challenges traditional masculinity and male dominance. Zachary A. Kramer argues that the discussion of masculinity should be opened up \"to include constructions of masculinity that uniquely affect women.\" Masculine women are often subject to social stigma and harassment, although the influence of the feminist movement has led to greater acceptance of women expressing masculinity in recent decades. Women with stereotypically masculine personality traits are more likely to gain access to high-paying occupations than women with feminine personality traits.\n\nWomen who participate in sports, especially male-dominated sports, are sometimes derided as being masculine. Even though most sports emphasize stereotypically masculine qualities, such as strength, competition, and aggression, women who participate in sports are still expected to conform to strictly feminine gender norms. This is known as the \"female/athlete paradox\". Although traditional gender norms are gradually changing, female athletes, especially those that participate in male-dominated sports such as boxing, weight lifting, American football, ice hockey, and motor sports, are still often viewed as deviating from the boundaries of femininity and may suffer repercussions such as discrimination or mistreatment from administrators, harassment by fans, and decreased media attention.\n\nEvidence points to the negative impact of hegemonic masculinity on men's health-related behavior, with American men making 134.5 million fewer physician visits per year than women. Men make 40.8 percent of all physician visits, including women's obstetric and gynecological visits. Twenty-five percent of men aged 45 to 60 do not have a personal physician, increasing their risk of death from heart disease. Men between 25 and 65 are four times more likely to die from cardiovascular disease than women, and are more likely to be diagnosed with a terminal illness because of their reluctance to see a doctor. Reasons cited for not seeing a physician include fear, denial, embarrassment, a dislike of situations out of their control and the belief that visiting a doctor is not worth the time or cost.\n\nStudies of men in North America and Europe show that men who consume alcoholic drinks often do so in order to fulfill certain social expectations of manliness. While the causes of drinking and alcoholism are complex and varied, gender roles and social expectations have a strong influence encouraging men to drink.\n\nIn 2004, Arran Stibbe published an analysis of a well-known men's-health magazine in 2000. According to Stibbe, although the magazine ostensibly focused on health it also promoted traditional masculine behaviors such as excessive consumption of convenience foods and meat, alcohol consumption and unsafe sex.\n\nResearch on beer-commercial content by Lance Strate yielded results relevant to a study of masculinity. In beer commercials, masculine behavior (especially risk-taking) is encouraged. Commercials often focus on situations in which a man overcomes an obstacle in a group, working or playing hard (construction or farm workers or cowboys). Those involving play have central themes of mastery (of nature or each other), risk and adventure: fishing, camping, playing sports or socializing in bars. There is usually an element of danger and a focus on movement and speed (watching fast cars or driving fast). The bar is a setting for the measurement of masculinity in skills such as billiards, strength, and drinking ability. Men engage in positive health practices, such as reducing fat intake and alcohol, to conform to masculine ideals.\n\nGay men are considered by some to \"deviate from the masculine norm\" and are benevolently stereotyped as \"gentle and refined\", even by other gay men. According to gay human-rights campaigner Peter Tatchell:\nContrary to the well-intentioned claim that gays are \"just the same\" as straights, there is a difference. What is more, the distinctive style of gay masculinity is of great social benefit. Wouldn't life be dull without the flair and imagination of queer fashion designers and interior decorators? How could the NHS cope with no gay nurses, or the education system with no gay teachers? Society should thank its lucky stars that not all men turn out straight, macho and insensitive. The different hetero and homo modes of maleness are not, of course, biologically fixed.\n\nPsychologist Joseph Pleck argues that a hierarchy of masculinity exists largely as a dichotomy of homosexual and heterosexual males: \"Our society uses the male heterosexual-homosexual dichotomy as a central symbol for all the rankings of masculinity, for the division on any grounds between males who are \"real men\" and have power, and males who are not\". Michael Kimmel adds that the trope \"You're so gay\" indicates a lack of masculinity, rather than homosexual orientation. According to Pleck, to avoid male oppression of women, themselves and other men, patriarchal structures, institutions and discourse must be eliminated from Western society.\n\nIn the documentary \"The Butch Factor\", gay men (one of them transgender) were asked about their views of masculinity. Masculine traits were generally seen as an advantage in and out of the closet, allowing \"butch\" gay men to conceal their sexual orientation longer while engaged in masculine activities such as sports. Effeminacy is inaccurately associated with homosexuality, and some gay men doubted their sexual orientation; they did not see themselves as effeminate, and felt little connection to gay culture. Some effeminate gay men in \"The Butch Factor\" felt uncomfortable about their femininity (despite being comfortable with their sexuality), and feminine gay men may be derided by stereotypically-masculine gays.\n\nFeminine-looking men tended to come out earlier after being labeled gay by their peers. More likely to face bullying and harassment throughout their lives, they are taunted by derogatory words (such as \"sissy\") implying feminine qualities. Effeminate, \"campy\" gay men sometimes use what John R. Ballew called \"camp humor\", such as referring to one another by female pronouns (according to Ballew, \"a funny way of defusing hate directed toward us [gay men]\"); however, such humor \"can cause us [gay men] to become confused in relation to how we feel about being men\". He further stated:\n\nA study by the Center for Theoretical Study at Charles University in Prague and the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic found significant differences in shape among the faces of heterosexual and gay men, with gay men having more \"stereotypically masculine\" features (\"undermin[ing] stereotypical notions of gay men as more feminine looking.\")\n\nGay men have been presented in the media as feminine and open to ridicule, although films such as \"Brokeback Mountain\" are countering the stereotype. A recent development is the portrayal of gay men in the LGBT community as \"bears\", a subculture of gay men celebrating rugged masculinity and \"secondary sexual characteristics of the male: facial hair, body hair, proportional size, baldness\".\n\nSecond-wave pro-feminism paid greater attention to issues of sexuality, particularly the relationship between homosexual men and hegemonic masculinity. This shift led to increased cooperation between the men's liberation and gay liberation movements developing, in part, because masculinity was understood as a social construct and in response to the universalization of \"men\" in previous men's movements. Men's-rights activists worked to stop second-wave feminists from influencing the gay-rights movement, promoting hypermasculinity as inherent to gay sexuality.\n\nMasculinity has played an important role in lesbian culture, although lesbians vary widely in the degree to which they express masculinity and femininity. In LGBT cultures, masculine women are often referred to as \"butch\".\n\nTwo concerns over the study of the history of masculinity are that it would stabilize the historical process (rather than change it) and that a cultural overemphasis on the approach to masculinity lacks the reality of actual experience. According to John Tosh, masculinity has become a conceptual framework used by historians to enhance their cultural explorations instead of a specialty in its own right. This draws attention from reality to representation and meaning, not only in the realm of masculinity; culture was becoming \"the bottom line, the real historical reality\". Tosh critiques Martin Francis' work of in this light because popular culture, rather than the experience of family life, is the basis for Francis' argument. Francis uses contemporary literature and film to demonstrate that masculinity was restless, shying away from domesticity and commitment, during the late 1940s and 1950s. Francis wrote that this flight from commitment was \"most likely to take place at the level of fantasy (individual and collective)\". In focusing on culture, it is difficult to gauge the degree to which films such as \"Scott of the Antarctic\" represented the era’s masculine fantasies. Michael Roper’s call to focus on the subjectivity of masculinity addresses this cultural bias, because broad understanding is set aside for an examination \"of what the relationship of the codes of masculinity is to actual men, to existential matters, to persons and to their psychic make-up\" (Tosh's human experience).\n\nAccording to Tosh, the culture of masculinity has outlived its usefulness because it cannot fulfill the initial aim of this history (to discover how manhood was conditioned and experienced) and he urged \"questions of behaviour and agency\". His work on Victorian masculinity uses individual experience in letters and sketches to illustrate broader cultural and social customs, such as birthing or Christmas traditions.\n\nStefan Dudink believes that the methodological approach (trying to categorize masculinity as a phenomenon) undermined its historiographic development. Abigail Solomou-Godeau’s work on post-revolutionary French art addresses a strong, constant patriarchy.\n\nTosh’s overall assessment is that a shift is needed in conceptualizing the topic back to the history of masculinity as a speciality aiming to reach a broader audience, rather than as an analytical tool of cultural and social history. The importance he places on public history hearkens back to the initial aims of gender history, which sought to use history to enlighten and change the present. Tosh appeals to historians to live up to the \"social expectation\" of their work, which would also require a greater focus on subjectivity and masculinity. This view is contrary to Dudink’s; the latter called for an \"outflanking movement\" towards the history of masculinity, in response to the errors he perceived in the study. This would do the opposite of what Tosh called for, deconstructing masculinity by not placing it at the center of historical exploration and using discourse and culture as indirect avenues towards a more-representational approach. In a study of the Low Countries, Dudink proposes moving beyond the history of masculinity by embedding analysis into the exploration of nation and nationalism (making masculinity a lens through which to view conflict and nation-building). Martin Francis' work on domesticity through a cultural lens moves beyond the history of masculinity because \"men constantly travelled back and forward across the frontier of domesticity, if only in the realm of the imagination\"; normative codes of behavior do not fully encompass the male experience.\n\nMedia images of boys and young men may lead to the persistence of harmful concepts of masculinity. According to men's-rights activists, the media does not address men's-rights issues and men are often portrayed negatively in advertising. Peter Jackson called hegemonic masculinity \"economically exploitative\" and \"socially oppressive\": \"The form of oppression varies from patriarchal controls over women's bodies and reproductive rights, through ideologies of domesticity, femininity and compulsory heterosexuality, to social definitions of the value of work, the nature of skill and the differential remuneration of 'productive' and 'reproductive' labor.\"\n\nAccording to a paper submitted by Tracy Tylka to the American Psychological Association, \"Instead of seeing a decrease in objectification of women in society, there has just been an increase in the objectification of both sexes. And you can see that in the media today.\" Men and women restrict food intake in an effort to achieve what they consider an attractively-thin body; in extreme cases, this leads to eating disorders. Psychiatrist Thomas Holbrook cited a recent Canadian study indicating that as many as one in six people with eating disorders are men.\n\nResearch in the United Kingdom found, \"Younger men and women who read fitness and fashion magazines could be psychologically harmed by the images of perfect female and male physiques.\" Young women and men exercise excessively in an effort to achieve what they consider an attractively-fit and muscular body, which may lead to body dysmorphic disorder or muscle dysmorphia. Although the stereotypes may have remained constant, the value attached to masculine stereotypes has changed; it has been argued that masculinity is an unstable phenomenon, never ultimately achieved.\n\nIn 1987 Eisler and Skidmore studied masculinity, creating the idea of \"masculine stress\" and finding three elements of masculinity which often result in emotional stress:\n\nBecause of social norms and pressures associated with masculinity, men with spinal-cord injuries must adapt their self-identity to the losses associated with such injuries; this may \"lead to feelings of decreased physical and sexual prowess with lowered self-esteem and a loss of male identity. Feelings of guilt and overall loss of control are also experienced.\" Research also suggests that men feel social pressure to endorse traditional masculine male models in advertising. Brett Martin and Juergen Gnoth (2009) found that although feminine men privately preferred feminine models, they expressed a preference for traditional masculine models in public; according to the authors, this reflected social pressure on men to endorse traditional masculine norms.\n\nIn their book \"Raising Cain: Protecting The Emotional Life of Boys\", Dan Kindlon and Michael Thompson wrote that although all boys are born loving and empathic, exposure to gender socialization (the tough male ideal and hypermasculinity) limits their ability to function as emotionally-healthy adults. According to Kindlon and Thompson, boys lack the ability to understand and express emotions productively because of the stress imposed by masculine gender roles.\n\nIn the article \"Sexual Ethics, Masculinity and Mutual Vulnerability\", Rob Cover works to unpack Judith Butler's study of masculinity. Cover goes over issues such as sexual assault and how it can be partially explained by a hypermasculinity.\n\nA theory of \"masculinity in crisis\" has emerged; Australian archeologist Peter McAllister said, \"I have a strong feeling that masculinity is in crisis. Men are really searching for a role in modern society; the things we used to do aren't in much demand anymore\". Others see the changing labor market as a source of stress. Deindustrialization and the replacement of smokestack industries by technology have allowed more women to enter the labor force, reducing its emphasis on physical strength.\n\nThe crisis has also been attributed to the questioning of male dominance and rights granted to men solely on the basis of sex following the feminist movement. British sociologist John MacInnes wrote that \"masculinity has always been in one crisis or another\", suggesting that the crises arise from the \"fundamental incompatibility between the core principle of modernity that all human beings are essentially equal (regardless of their sex) and the core tenet of patriarchy that men are naturally superior to women and thus destined to rule over them\".\n\nAccording to John Beynon, masculinity and men are often conflated and it is unclear whether masculinity, men or both are in crisis. He writes that the \"crisis\" is not a recent phenomenon, illustrating several periods of masculine crisis throughout history (some predating the women's movement and post-industrial society), suggesting that due to masculinity's fluid nature \"crisis is constitutive of masculinity itself\". Film scholar Leon Hunt also writes: \"Whenever masculinity's 'crisis' actually started, it certainly seems to have been in place by the 1970s\".\n\nIn 2008, the word \"herbivore men\" became popular in Japan and was reported worldwide. Herbivore men refers to young Japanese men who naturally detach themselves from masculinity. Masahiro Morioka characterizes them as men 1) having gentle nature, 2) not bound by manliness, 3) not aggressive when it comes to romance, 4) viewing women as equals, and 5) hating emotional pain. Herbivore men are severely criticized by men who love masculinity.\nIn Chinese and Taiwanese popular culture, phrases such as \" (), \" (), and \"\" () are used as pejoratives referring to men exhibiting misogyny, dominance, and homophobia.\n\n\n\nBibliographic\nOther\n"}
{"id": "743205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=743205", "title": "Michael Martin (philosopher)", "text": "Michael Martin (philosopher)\n\nMichael L. Martin (February 3, 1932 – May 27, 2015) was an American philosopher and former professor at Boston University. Martin specialized in the philosophy of religion, although he also worked on the philosophies of science, law, and social science. He served with the US Marine Corps in Korea. Martin died unexpectedly on 27 May 2015, aged 83.\n\nMartin completed a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in 1956 at Arizona State University. He was awarded an MA in philosophy at the University of Arizona in 1958 and in 1962 he was awarded a PhD in philosophy from Harvard University. He was appointed Assistant Professor at University of Colorado in 1962 and in 1965 he moved to Boston University. He was appointed Professor of Philosophy Emeritus after a lifelong career at Boston University.\n\nHe is the author or editor of a number of books, including \"Atheism: A Philosophical Justification\" (1989), \"The Case Against Christianity\" (1991), \"Atheism, Morality, and Meaning\" (2002), \"The Impossibility of God\" (2003), \"The Improbability of God\" (2006), and \"The Cambridge Companion to Atheism\" (2006). He sat on the editorial board of the philosophy journal, \"Philo\" and wrote many reviews and articles for journals and magazines including \"Free Inquiry\".\n\nIn his \"Atheism: A Philosophical Justification\", Martin cites a general absence of an atheistic response to contemporary work in philosophy of religion, and accepts the responsibility of a rigorous defense of non belief as his \"cross to bear:\"\n\nThe aim of this book is not to make atheism a popular belief or even to overcome its invisibility. My object is not utopian. It is merely to provide good reasons for being an atheist. … My object is to show that atheism is a rational position and that belief in God is not. I am quite aware that atheistic beliefs are not always based on reason. My claim is that they should be.Martin used the concepts of negative and positive atheism as proposed by Antony Flew rather than the terms weak or soft atheism (negative) and strong or hard atheism (positive).\n\nMartin was an advocate of the Christ myth theory.\n\nMartin took part in a number of written and internet debates with Christian philosophers.\n\n\nMartin published \"The Big Domino in the Sky: And Other Atheistic Tales\" in 1996. This is a collection of short stories in various styles presenting philosophical arguments. .\n\nIn 2011 Martin self-published a fiction novel, \"Murder In Lecture Hall B\", about a murder in the classroom of a philosophy professor whose interests are Religions and Atheism. \n\nMartin also wrote 8 short plays with moral or philosophical themes that are available on his website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42388265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42388265", "title": "Mikhail B. Dobriyan", "text": "Mikhail B. Dobriyan\n\nMikhail Borisovich Dobriyan, (, (26 June 1947 – 16 November 2013) was a Soviet and Russian aerospace engineer and a former director of the Space Research Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences in Tarusa. He was one of the leading figures in the programs of the International Astrophysical Observatory GRANAT and Vega program. Mikhail Dobriyan was a head of Tarussky District and an honorary citizen of the city of Tarusa. There is a street named to honor of Michail B. Dobriyan and a Memorial dedicated to his memory..\n\n"}
{"id": "18333843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18333843", "title": "Monica Törnell", "text": "Monica Törnell\n\nMonica Kristina Ingeborg Törnell, (born June 3, 1954 in , Hälsingland, Gävleborg County, Sweden) is a Swedish singer and songwriter. After being discovered by Cornelis Vreeswijk 1971, she was a prominent singer in several genres, mainly folk and rock music, for over two decades. Together with Lasse Holm, she represented Sweden in the Eurovision Song Contest 1986 in Bergen, Norway. She is the mother of (born in 1973) and Mattias Törnell (born in 1980).\n\nMonica Törnell lived her first years in Trönö (in the municipality), but she later moved with her family to Söderhamn.\nIn this city, she started to visit Folkets Park, where she heard artists such as Lill-Babs, Jerry Williams, and many others.\nEarly in her life, Törnell had her public debut before audience of 700 people at the 1962 Ericsson Christmas party in Söderhamn, where her father Jöns Törnell was an employee.\nfollowed by a series of performances in public parks at home.\nShe was also good at drawing, and in 1965, she became one of five first-prize winners in the drawing competition \"Ung Fantasi\" (Young Fantasy), in which 1500 schoolchildren took part.\nIn her early teens she played fiddle and sang both solo and in choir. In the late 1960s she was in the singing groups \"He, She and You\" and \"TJI\". These groups consisted only of guitars and bass and sang mostly American folk music. On 20 February 1971, she won a vocalist contest in society Ljusne, Söderhamn Municipality, where she sang the song \"Summertime\".\n\nIn 1971, Törnell sang at the opening of the local restaurant in Söderhamn that her father then opened along with a friend. At the same time, Cornelis Vreeswijk was across the street, which led to him discovering Törnell, although she was already relatively well known in the area. After meeting Vreeswijk, she quit as a photography student, which she had been for seven months after primary school. During the latter part of 1971 and beginning of 1972 she made a major tour in both Sweden and Denmark.\ntogether with Vreeswijk. Other musicians on the tour were , Palle Danielsson, , and .\nCornelis arranged a demo, which he presented to for his new record company Phonogram Records. She was offered a recording contract for a single, but turned it down because she wanted to do an LP album, which she did later in 1972. At the beginning of Törnell's time in the chaotic world of entertainment, Cornelis and his former wife Bim Warne gave her significant guidance. She also appeared on the television programmes \"\" and \"Strapetz\", and thus reached a wider audience.\n\nHer real breakthrough came on 10 July 1972 at in Västervik.\nThe same year she made her record debut with a folk music inspired LP, , which was issued by Phonogram with the label of Philips Records. Other musicians on the disk were Björn J:son Lindh, Janne Schaffer, and Vreeswijk himself. She also sang a duet with Cornelis in the song \"Jenny Jansson\" on his 1972 album \"Visor, svarta och röda\", and a duet with in the song, \"Man ska vara två\" from his first LP, \"Påtalåtar\" (published in 1974). She continued in the same style in their second LP, (1973), which was also a success. Both of her first albums were produced by Lill-Babs's brother , a former drummer in the bands Tages and . That same year, she made a number of appearances with Tomas Ledin. She also sang the leitmotif to Per Oscarsson's controversial film Ebon Lundin (1973) along with 's big band \"Vieux Carré\".\n\nIn the mid-1970s, Törnell oriented herself against rock, and toured for some time with her own band consisting of Henrik \"Hempo\" Hildén (from the jazz fusion group ) on drums, Per Sydén on bass guitar, and her brother, Bobo Törnell on guitar. In 1975 came the English-language album \"\", which was produced by Björn J:son Lindh. Several members of Splash were involved with the album. Bobo was involved with some of Monica's later albums, both as a guitarist and songwriter. The album was a kind of revolt against the image of her as folksinger. During the Progg movement, it was controversial for a Swedish artist to sing in English. She is often associated with this movement, but rarely sung in a progressive context, since she belonged to a commercial record company. However, she was critical of the movement, and said in 1977 that she hoped that Progg was the beginning of moving forward, instead of being simplistic, and music would be more open. The media compared her voice to that of Melanie Safka and Janis Joplin, but she said that the French Chanson had been her inspiration. In 1977, Törnell released another English-language album, Bush Lady, recorded in the UK and produced by the American jazz trumpeter Stephen Franckevich; however, this album was no more successful.\n\nIn October 1977, she participated in the feminist at the Riksdag building in Stockholm, arranged by, among others, . She had more successes in 1978 when she returned to the Swedish language and, together with the group \"New Band\" (with several members of the band ) published the LPs (I am who I am...), produced by Björn J: son Lindh. This album included the song \"En kungens man\", written by Björn Afzelius in 1974 and the song \"Kavaljersvisa från Värmland\", which became a huge success. The newspaper Dagens Nyheter awarded her with the \"Kasper Prize\" for this album, and in July of the same year she sang again at Visfestivalen in Västervik. Like a number of other artists, she supported option 3 of the (Referendum on nuclear power) and participated in a 1979 compilation titled \"\" (\"No to nuclear power!\") with the song \"We Will All Go Together When We Go\" by Tom Lehrer. The same year, she also produced her own album, \"\", together with the New Band and mainly in English.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Törnell returned to rock music and began to increasingly write her own songs. With the album \"Ängel\" (1982) began a long collaboration with the producer Ulf Wahlberg, who also played keyboard in the band Secret Service. The same year she also participated in a couple of songs on the album \"Z\" with, among others, Mats Zetterberg, known from the bands Fiendens musik and Bluesblocket from Lund in southern Sweden. In addition to the rock music she showed on a 1983 album with trumpeter Weine Renliden that she also has great potential as jazz vocalist.\nIn 1984 came Törnell LP \"Mica\", which in addition to the hit song \"Vintersaga\" by Ted Ström, also included her own songs \"Heden\" and \"Känslan i maj\", which was very successful (the latter came in 1989 also in the instrumental version of Putte Wickman and Ivan Renliden). She had then changed to the record company Air Music, led by Sture Borgedahl, and was in the mid-1980s along with Adolphson-Falk one of that company's most important artists. [12] She also participated in a couple of songs on Ströms own albums in the middle of the 1980s. In 1984 came a new album, \"Fri\", including for example the title track \"Fri\", written by Monica herself, and \"Nio liv\". In 1985 she also sang the song \"Hav utan hamn\" of Lasse Wellander's album \"Full hand\" and a duet with Per Gessle in the song \"Rickie Lee\" on his solo album \"Scener\". She also participated in the ANC Gala at Scandinavium in Gothenburg at the end of November the same year. [13]\nIn 1986 she made along with Lasse Holm song \"E' de' det här du kallar kärlek?\" (written by Holm), which became the winner of the Swedish Melodifestivalen and came in fifth place in the Eurovision Song Contest. To participate in this competition was not entirely uncontroversial, in view of her previous connection to the progg movement. She had, moreover, 1977 described Melodifestivalen as \"this damned pop competition.\" [7] Holm had get into touch with Törnell when he 1985 was one of the producers of the album by Lasse Wellander as Törnell then participated in [2].\nThe same year also came album \"Big Mama\", in which even Steve Marriott (from The Small Faces and Humble Pie) participated as guest artist. This album was produced by mainly Janne Schaffer and Törnell herself. She became involved in this time of Kjell Alinge's radio show Eldorado, with songs that \"I can see you\" by Don Henley and Mike Campbell with Swedish text by Peter R. Ericson (1987). The following year she sang three songs on a tribute album to Cornelis Vreeswijk, \"Den flygande holländaren\", including her interpretation of Vreeswijk's song \"Ågren\". She released two further own albums in the 1980s, now back with Ulf Wahlberg as producer, \"Månfred\" (1988), including the successful song \"Vind skall komma\", and \"Vive la Mystique\" (1989). During the latter part of the 1980s, she made four appearances on Visfestivalen in Västervik, 1985, 1986, 1988 and 1989. From the mid-1980s, however, she had begun to have health problems, which later came to influence her career negative [14].\n\nDuring the 1990s, became her state of health as well as her recordings and scene performances significantly fewer. From that time, she has mainly been active as a visual artist and has exhibited oil paintings, including in Söderhamn and Sundsvall. In 1992, however, she released a CD with songs by Lennart Hellsing. These were set to music by Klas Widén and Georg Riedel. The same year she also participated in an album with the band Twang from Gävle. She also made new appearances on Visfestivalen in Västervik 1991 and 1994. In 1997, she worked as an actor in the role of the woman weaver in Hans Klinga's stage-setting of Astrid Lindgren's \"Mio, My Son\" at the Royal Dramatic Theatre in Stockholm. [15] The following year she appeared in the television programme \"Livslust\" and told me about his illness and the diagnosis established only after ten years, chronic fatigue syndrome. [14] In October 1999 she sang again for the audience at a charity gala in Gävle Concert Hall. [16] The same year she also participated with the song \"Pilträd gråt för mig\" (Willow, Weep for Me, Ann Ronell-Fjellström / Bourne) on a tribute album to the then recently deceased guitarist Jan-Eric \"Fjellis\" Fjellström.\n\nIn 2001 she sang at the Cornelis Day on Mosebacke Etablissement in Stockholm along with jazz musician Thomas Jutterström from Söderhamn. [17] In 2004, she participated along with the British rock band Dr. Feelgood on the compilation album \"Rendezvous\" with \"I'm So Happy\", a previously unreleased song that she herself wrote in the early 1980s. She has in recent years also made a number of appearances, including during the Söderhamn Days, along with the cover band Rocktools from Söderhamn. In January 2005 she sang at a charity gala for the victims of the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake, which was held in Gävle Concert Hall. [18] The same year she sang duet with Thorsten Flinck in the song \"Här och nu\" (by Björn Afzelius) on the album \"Vildvuxna rosor\". In 2007 she sang the song \"When I Paint My Masterpiece\" on the compilation album \"Whatever Colors You Have in Your Mind\", a tribute to Bob Dylan. She has also (along with Björn Ståbi, Freddie Wadling, Karin Wistrand and others) participated in the music project Mother, which is led by the former punk rock musician Per Forsgren from Gävle and has resulted in the album \"LP\" (2008). Continuing health problems have, however, have so far been an obstacle for a comeback on a larger scale. [19]\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n^ Tomas Ledin., Accessed 2007-11-24 \n^ Björn Afzelius., Accessed 2007-11-24 \n^ Air Chrysalis Scandinavia., Accessed 2007-12-18 \n^ Mikael Wiehe., Accessed 2007-11-24 \n^ Karl-Erik Tallmo: När livet tog en annan väg. En sjukdomshistoria., Accessed 2007-11-24 \n^ \"Monica Törnell gör comeback - på Dramaten\", article by Annika Sundbaum-Melin, Aftonbladet, 1997-10-02, pp. 42 \n^ Sveriges inre., Accessed 2007-11-24 \n^ Cornelis Vreeswijksällskapet., Accessed 2007-11-24 \n^ De ställer upp för offren., Article by Johanna Jönsson, Gefle Dagblad, 2005-01-04, accessed 2007-11-24 \n^ Monica Törnell 50 år., TT-article by Monica Frima, Helsingborgs Dagblad 2004-06-01, accessed 2007-12-02 \n^ \"Personnytt: SKAPs stipendier\", article by Ove Säverman, Dagens Nyheter, 2003-05-22, p. B21\n"}
{"id": "3710057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3710057", "title": "Nicky Henson", "text": "Nicky Henson\n\nNicholas Victor Leslie Henson (born 12 May 1945) is an English actor who has portrayed many roles since 1963. He joined the Royal Shakespeare Company in 1977.\n\nHenson was born in London, the son of Harriet Martha (Collins) and comedian Leslie Henson. Henson attended St. Bede's Prep School, Eastbourne and Charterhouse School in Godalming. He trained as a stage manager at RADA, and first appeared on stage himself as a guitarist. As a member of the Young Vic Company he played Pozzo in Samuel Beckett's \"Waiting for Godot.\"\n\nHenson has appeared in various television roles, including guest roles in \"Fawlty Towers\", \"Minder\", \"Boon\", \"A Touch of Frost\", \"Heartbeat\", \"After You've Gone\" and \"Doctors\". He also played the eponymous hero in \"Shine On Harvey Moon\" when the series was revived in 1995. \nIn 2005 he played Hugo, an antique dealer in \"Bad Girls\". \nIn February 2006, Henson joined the cast of the BBC1 soap opera \"EastEnders\", playing Jack Edwards. Henson left the production towards the end of the year due to health problems.\n\nHenson has played three different characters the police drama series \"The Bill\", the first in 1991, the second in 1998, and the third in 2007. In 2010, he appeared in an episode of the ITV period drama \"Downton Abbey\" and appeared in two further episodes in 2013.\nHe also played Randolph Mepstead older brother to David Jason's character in the pilot episode of the 1976 series Lucky Feller\n\nNicky Henson's film appearances include \"Witchfinder General\" (1968), \"There's a Girl in My Soup\" (1970), \"Mosquito Squadron\" (1970) and \"Psychomania\" (1971). He graduated to lead roles in \"The Bawdy Adventures of Tom Jones\" (1976) and \"No. 1 of the Secret Service\" (1977), before returning to supporting roles in \"Vera Drake\" (2004) and George Clooney's \"Syriana\" (2005).\n\nOn stage, Henson has played many Shakespearian characters and has had leading roles in \"Look Back in Anger\", \"Man and Superman\", \"Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead\", \"She Stoops to Conquer\", \"Noises Off\" and many other plays. He appeared as Mordred in the original 1964 London version of Camelot opposite Laurence Harvey as King Arthur. Henson made his Broadway debut in a production of Oscar Wilde's \"An Ideal Husband\", opposite Stephanie Beacham. He was nominated for a 1998 Laurence Olivier Theatre Award for Best Supporting Performance in a Musical of 1997 for his role in \"Enter the Guardsman\".\n\nHe started directing with a Restoration workshop at LAMDA with a production of \"The Provok'd Wife\". In 2009 he directed the Jack Shepherd play \"Only When I Laugh\" at the Arcola Theatre in London and Alan Ayckbourn's \"Intimate Exchanges\" at Sheringham Little Theatre.\n\nHe played Lemuel 'Chipper' Barnet in \"Space Force\" series 1 and 2 (1984–85).\n\nHenson married actress Una Stubbs (who incidentally played his sister-in-law Caroline Bishop in \"EastEnders\"). The couple had two sons, Joe and Christian, both of whom are composers. The marriage ended after Henson began an affair in 1974 with actress Susan Hampshire, his co-star in several stage productions.\n\nHe then married ballerina Marguerite Porter, by whom he has a third son, Keaton, a musician and illustrator. \n\nAdam Henson, a farmer and regular presenter on BBC TV's \"Countryfile\", is a nephew.\n\nHenson was diagnosed with cancer in 2003. Surgeons removed tumours from around his spleen, but a routine check-up in 2006 showed that other tumours had grown and it would be dangerous to remove them. Henson was put on a regimen of chemotherapy, and now works regularly to raise funds for cancer charities, especially Marie Curie Cancer Care.\n"}
{"id": "4240280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4240280", "title": "Nour El-Khoury", "text": "Nour El-Khoury\n\nNour El-Khoury (June 7, 1960 – 1998) was a Maronite Christian Lebanese woman. During the Lebanese war in the 1980s, wounds appeared on the back of Nour’s hands and pieces of incense started to come out, accompanied by oil exuding, apparitions and messages from The Holy.\n\nHer sociopolitical phenomenon got local and international media coverage, among which the local Maronite Christian media.\n\nSix years after her death, on December 16, 2004, the smell of incense came out from her dress that was worn by her niece for a dress-up party, this was also covered by the Lebanese Christian Media.\n"}
{"id": "10580241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10580241", "title": "Political views of Bill O'Reilly", "text": "Political views of Bill O'Reilly\n\nAmerican commentator Bill O'Reilly regularly expresses his points of view on a wide variety of political, social, and moral issues. He has personally labeled his political philosophy \"traditionalism\". \"The O'Reilly Factor,\" since its inception on the Fox News Channel in 1996, has been the primary outlet of his opinions. O'Reilly started his own radio program, \"The Radio Factor\", a few years later. He has also written several non-fiction books detailing some of his beliefs. O'Reilly generally leans to the right on most issues, most notably the Bush administration's War on Terror, but breaks from the conservative and Republican majority on such issues as the global warming controversy, gun control, gay marriage and the death penalty.\n\nOn \"The O'Reilly Factor\" and on his former talk-radio program, Bill O'Reilly has focused on news and commentary related to politics and culture. O'Reilly has long said that he does not identify with any political ideology, writing in his book \"The O'Reilly Factor\" that the reader \"might be wondering if whether I'm conservative, liberal, libertarian, or exactly what... See, I don't want to fit any of those labels, because I believe that the truth doesn't have labels. When I see corruption, I try to expose it. When I see exploitation, I try to fight it. That's my political position.\" On December 6, 2000, the \"Daily News\" in New York reported, however, that he had been registered with the Republican Party in the state of New York since 1994. When questioned about this, he said that he was not aware of it and says he registered as an independent after the interview. During a broadcast of \"The Radio Factor\", O'Reilly said that there was no option to register as an independent voter; however, there was in fact a box marked \"I do not wish to enroll in party.\" Despite being registered as an Independent, many view him as a conservative figure. A Pew Research February 2009 poll found that 66% of his television viewers identify themselves as conservative, 24% moderate, and 3% liberal. A November 2008 poll by Zogby International found that O'Reilly was the second most trusted news personality after Rush Limbaugh.\n\nIn a 2003 interview with Terry Gross on National Public Radio, O'Reilly said:\n\nO'Reilly has opined on many domestic issues. O'Reilly said the Bill Clinton impeachment stemming from the Lewinsky scandal was \"not about sex. This is about honesty and cruelty. For Mr. Clinton, it was about undermining the justice system.\" In the same article he writes that Gary Condit, a moderate Democratic congressman from California who had an extramarital affair with Chandra Levy prior to her disappearance and death, should be held to the same standard.\n\nAccording to the Newsmax publication, O'Reilly has repeatedly claimed that Clinton had the Internal Revenue Service audit him. O'Reilly says that he was audited three times since his program debuted in 1996.\n\nO'Reilly has been critical of former Attorney General Janet Reno, calling her \"perhaps the worst attorney general in history\", and that the FBI became a \"disorganized mess\" during her tenure. He later praised former Attorney General John Ashcroft for going after the Arthur Andersen accounting firm, as well as Enron, WorldCom, Sam Waksal of Imclone and Martha Stewart.\n\nIn 2002, O'Reilly had criticized Democratic Senator Hillary Clinton, stating that she would run for president in 2008. In an interview with Jay Leno on \"The Tonight Show\", he said, \"I just feel that Hillary is a socialist, and I'm paying enough tax. Hillary wants to take my money [and] your money... and give it to strangers. There's something about that that offends me.\" He said that she had voted for every single spending bill that year. In the same interview, he accused her of running as a political carpetbagger, and said that she intends to abolish the Electoral College in favor of the popular vote, claiming that it would be done only to give her an advantage in the presidential race.\n\nAfter criticizing the overturn of Snyder v. Phelps by the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals, O'Reilly offered on March 30, 2010 to help Snyder pay the in court costs while he prepared an appeal to the Supreme Court.\n\nDuring the lead up to the 2004 presidential election, O'Reilly said that the Democratic Party has been taken over by the \"far-left\" in a conversation with former Democratic Congressman Brad Carson. Shortly following the election, O'Reilly ridiculed a message in which Democratic challenger John Kerry thanked his supporters for their support as well as opposing \"the attacks from big news organizations such as Fox, Sinclair Broadcasting, and conservative talk radio.\" O'Reilly shot back, calling Kerry a \"sissy\" six times. Kerry himself stated publicly in a 2006 interview that he always felt he'd have a \"fair shot\" at conveying his views on \"The O'Reilly Factor\" and regrets not doing an interview prior to the election.\n\nAlthough O'Reilly has never officially endorsed any candidate, he did advise his audience not to support Democratic South Dakota senator Tom Daschle in his Senate re-election bid on his radio program, saying that, \"[W]ith all due respect to the senator, we don't have any respect for him at all. And we hope he loses in South Dakota. And I -- really, I stay out of all these races, but you guys listening in South Dakota, vote for the other guy.\" Daschle would lose the 2004 Senate election in South Dakota to John Thune.\n\nIn the 2008 Democratic primary, O'Reilly urged his viewers not to vote for a candidate, this time John Edwards, and called Edwards a \"phony\" regarding his public statements on poverty. O'Reilly has, on many occasions, admitted to \"having no respect for him\", and called him \"arrogant\" for keeping his campaign staffer Amanda Marcotte on after making remarks O'Reilly called offensive to Christians.\n\nO'Reilly has also criticized Republicans. When speaking to Ed Schulz in 2007, O'Reilly said that then-presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani had \"terrible character judgement\" with Bernard Kerik and felt that \"disqualified him from being president.\"\n\nO'Reilly has taken to using the abbreviation \"S-P\", for \"Secular Progressive\", as a shorthand way of referring to a political category of people who want \"drastic change\" in the country. O'Reilly classifies the group as \"far left\", and almost always refers to the group in a negative manner. However, he says that he is not equating the negative qualities he sees in \"SPs\" with a \"liberal\" political ideology, saying the SP camp is far more \"libertine\" with social values:\n\nLiberal thought, however, can be a good thing. Progressive programs to help the poor, fight injustice and give working people a fair shake are all positive. But libertine actions damage a just society because actions have consequences. Kids who drink and take drugs are likely to hurt themselves and others. But obviously, the SPs do not make judgments like that. \n\nIn his book \"Culture Warrior\", O'Reilly called President John F. Kennedy and Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. examples of liberals who were also traditionalists, also citing current US Senators Joe Lieberman of Connecticut and Evan Bayh of Indiana as liberal/Democratic \"traditionalists\".\n\nO'Reilly has supported stricter border controls, including placement of the National Guard troops on the US-Mexican border and has criticized President George W. Bush for not allocating enough resources to make border security effective. He also criticized Ronald Reagan's act of amnesty, claiming that it made the illegal immigration problem worse. O'Reilly makes a distinction between criminal illegal immigrants and non-criminals by saying that criminal illegal immigrants should be deported immediately. O'Reilly criticizes the lack of cooperation between local sanctuary cities and the INS.\n\nO'Reilly initially supported the invasion of Iraq. Speaking on ABC's \"Good Morning America\" on March 18, 2003, O'Reilly promised that \"If the Americans go in and overthrow Saddam Hussein and it's clean [of weapons of mass destruction]...I will apologize to the nation, and I will not trust the Bush administration again.\" In another appearance on the same program on February 10, 2004, O'Reilly responded to repeated requests for him to honor his pledge: \"My analysis was wrong and I'm sorry. I was wrong. I'm not pleased about it at all.\" With regard to never again trusting the current U.S. government, he said, \"I am much more skeptical of the Bush administration now than I was at that time.\"\n\nO'Reilly has questioned the U.S. invasion of Iraq in hindsight, in particular the performance of Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld. However, he maintains that the United States \"did a good thing by trying to liberate a country\". O'Reilly says the war effort should continue as long as progress is being made. He has also said that some anti-war activists are actively rooting for the United States to lose:\n\nGeneral McCaffrey says strong progress is being made. He believes the Sunnis have turned against Al Qaeda and that the Maliki government is neutralizing the Shi'ia death squads.\n\nAgain, I don't know. With all America has sacrificed in Iraq, though, it seems reasonable to let the end game play out. If things are getting better, don't derail the train.\n\nBut the anti-war crew is now fully invested in defeat. So the struggle at home is becoming even more vicious. Iraq is a shooting war. America's a political war. Both are driven by hatred.\n\nO'Reilly called the Iraqi people a \"prehistoric group\", citing a poll showing that only two percent of them viewed the U.S. Forces as liberators and 55 percent preferred that they leave. \"We cannot intervene in the Muslim world ever again\", he said. \"What we can do is bomb the living daylights out of them (...) no more ground troops, no more hearts and minds, ain't going to work.\"\n\nIn an interview with White House Press Secretary (and former Fox News colleague) Tony Snow, O'Reilly said that the United States cannot win given the circumstances of Iraqis not supporting the effort:\nYou can't win. No one could. No nation could unless the Iraqi people turn on all the terrorists. And they're not. They're not, Tony.\nO'Reilly went on to say that the country was corrupt and compared the situation to the American support of South Vietnam during the Vietnam War:\nIt's like South Vietnam. It's the same thing. There were a lot of South Vietnamese helping us. A lot fought and died on our side but there wasn't enough of them to prevent the communists which were more united.\n\nO'Reilly would go on to praise General David Petraeus for reducing American casualties and advancing American objectives with the 2007 troop surge:\nThe cost has been great. We all know that. In suffering and cash. And the Iraqi government is still a mess. But General Petraeus, backed by a brave and professional U.S. military, has restored much order, largely defeated the Iraqi Al Qaeda thugs, and at least given the good people of that country a chance to prosper. General David Petraeus is \"The Factor\" person of the year by a wide margin.\n\nDuring \"The Rumble\" with Jon Stewart, O'Reilly admitted that \"We should not have gone to Iraq. Afghanistan we had to.\"\n\nO'Reilly has endorsed an aggressive War on Terror policy. He supports coercive measures to extract information from detainees at Guantanamo Bay, which he visited on two occasions. He has said that, in comparison to procedures used under the regimes of dictators such as Adolf Hitler and Pol Pot, the U.S.'s tactics are not torture and are beneficial even when involving physical techniques, claiming that \"Torture is taking my fingers off, disfiguring me, taking my eye out — not keeping me in a cold room and uncomfortable with blaring rock music.\" O'Reilly cites waterboarding as a successful coercive measure that should not be classified as torture, citing that Abu Zubaydah and Khaled Sheikh Mohammed have both given up valuable information after being subjected to the technique:\n\nIn my opinion, it is immoral to allow terrorists to kill people when you can stop them. If you capture someone who knows the inner workings of a terror outfit, you make life very uncomfortable for that person within boundaries set by Congress.\n\nBut let's stop the nonsense here. America's not a bad country because it waterboarded Zubaydah. The Bush administration has done its job. We haven't been attacked since 9/11.\n\nThe liberal press, politicians, the ACLU can't stop any wrongdoing. They're all lost in a fog of misguided indignation, crazy with hatred for Bush, but we the people must take a stand here. This isn't a game. This is life and death. And if you don't believe it, I know scores of people right here in New York City that will tell you about their dead loved ones.\n\nWaterboarding should be a last resort, but it must be an option. \n\nHe has also said that detainees should be judged under military tribunals, but not protected under the Geneva Convention because the convention requires combatants to wear a uniform.\n\nHe has been critical of politicians such as Democratic Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi and private citizens such as financier George Soros for wanting to try terror suspects in civilian courts.\n\nO'Reilly has said that both political parties in the United States are \"playing games\" with regards to the war on terrorism:\n...both the right and the left are playing games to some extent. Certainly, Al Qaeda remains dangerous, but the only way to hit them is to invade Pakistan. Do the Democrats want to do that?\n\nOn the other hand, it would be a tragedy if after all the blood and treasure Americans have sacrificed, Al Qaeda has not been badly damaged.\n\nAmerica should be united in fighting these savages, but we're not. Ideology has poisoned a reasoned, disciplined approach to defeating the jihadists. America's great strength, diversity of thought, can also be a weakness. And Al Qaeda knows it.\n\nThe old saying goes, \"United we stand, divided we fall.\" Well, we're divided. \n\nO'Reilly has accused billionaire businessman, investor and political activist George Soros of trying to influence the 2008 election by donating to causes and organizations that O'Reilly calls the \"radical left\", such as moveon.org, which regularly criticizes conservative politicians. O'Reilly said of Soros \"If Mike Myers didn't invent Dr. Evil, some would give Soros that moniker.\" O'Reilly also accused Media Matters for America of receiving funds from Soros; although Media Matters denies having any funding directly or indirectly from Soros, he and the group's founder, David Brock, have raised money together to fund political advertisements challenging John McCain in the 2008 election for what politico.com called \"attack ads\". O'Reilly responded to the politico report by labeling Soros, Brock and Paul Begala an \"American axis of evil\" and saying This, ladies and gentlemen, is ultra dangerous. Most Americans have no idea who Soros or Brock are. They will only know what they see on TV, smear stuff against McCain. And the pipeline extends directly to NBC News, which will publicize every piece of slime Brock can create. Only one word describes this: despicable. \n\nO'Reilly alleged that PBS personality Bill Moyers oversaw $500,000 worth of money transferred from the Shoeman Center Foundation (a group Soros donated to) to Media Matters.\nyou know, you've got to admire Soros for coming up with this organization. I mean, you know, he's made billions by doing this in business, by being in Curaçao and Bermuda and France, where he was convicted of a felony. And he knows how to do this. He knows how to move the money around and use it to gain influence. And now he's set his sights on changing the basic fabric of this country. \n\nThe organization to which O'Reilly refers is the Open Society Institute.\n\nO'Reilly has been critical of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), calling it \"the most dangerous organization in the United States of America\" especially in their challenging of the Justice Department and the Department of Defense regarding the War on Terror. He has called them a \"fascist\" organization in response to their threatened lawsuit against Los Angeles County for failing to remove a cross from its official seal.\n\nO'Reilly alleged hypocrisy on the part of the ACLU for stating that New York City's random searches of bags in the public transportation as a breach of personal rights, but requiring people entering their New York headquarters to consent to a bag search.\n\nO'Reilly asserted that the ACLU is now a political organization rather than an advocacy group, taking positions and cases based on politics rather than free speech.\n\nHe has come down hard on the organization for its actions on behalf of the North American Man Boy Love Association (NAMBLA) which is currently under suspicion of involvement with the rape and murder of a young boy:\n\nNow many of these people subscribe to a philosophy of relativism. That is a theory which says there's no absolute right or wrong. All moral values are relative. What's wrong for you is not wrong for your neighbor if he or she doesn't think his or her actions are wrong.\n\nThat's what the North American Man-Boy Love Association (NAMBLA) is all about. Those loons believe it's OK to rape kids because they want to.\nThe ACLU defends NAMBLA's freedom of speech surrounding their publications and has said that the legal blame in the murder should go to who committed it.\n\nThe ACLU has said that they sometimes have to defend \"unpopular\" speech or speech that they don't agree with, including the Ku Klux Klan's, saying their only \"client\" is the Bill of Rights. O'Reilly alleges the ACLU \"cherry picks\" its cases to promote a left wing agenda while not supporting causes of free speech that conservatives support in his criticism of the ACLU defending live sex shows in Oregon.\n\nO'Reilly decried the group's criticism of The Minutemen, claiming the latter were only engaging in a form of protest, a right the ACLU defends. O'Reilly alleges that the organization is protesting the Minutemen because they are going against the ACLU's agenda.\n\nO'Reilly accused the organization of having an anti-Christian bias when it protested the portrayal of the nativity scene in New York City Public Schools, but did not protest displayal of the Jewish menorah or the Islamic star and crescent.\n\nO'Reilly criticized the ACLU for suing San Diego County for renting property to the Boy Scouts of America in Balboa Park. The ACLU brought up a law claiming that the Boy Scouts discriminated against gays and atheists. O'Reilly criticized the San Diego City Council for voting 6-2 to vote the Scouts out before a ruling on the lawsuit was made.\nIt would be impossible for the Boy Scouts (search) or any children's organization to admit avowed homosexuals because of the potential liability. Say the Scouts put openly gay and straight kids together and some sexual activity occurred. Well, parents could sue for millions, same way parents could sue if the Scouts put boys and girls together and underaged sex occurred.\n\nAs far as the atheist issue is concerned, the Scouts say no specific belief in God is necessary, only an acknowledgement of a higher power. And that power could be nature. Come on. The whole discrimination thing is bogus.\n\nPart of the Boy Scout Oath begins, \"On my honor, I will do my best to do my duty to God and my country\" and the final point of the Scout Law reads, \"A Scout is reverent,\" with the Boy Scouts' of America official explanation being that \"a Scout is reverent toward God. He is faithful in his religious duties. He respects the beliefs of others.\" However, the bylaws of the organization specifically state that Scouts must \"respect the religious beliefs of others\" and \"in no case where a unit is connected with a church or other distinctively religious organization shall members of other denominations or faith be required, because of their membership in the unit, to take part in or observe a religious ceremony distinctly unique to that organization or church.\"\n\nO'Reilly argues this is a liberal definition of what God may be, allowing diversity for anyone believing in a higher power to join.\n\nHe went on to compare the ACLU to Nazis:\n\nNow the ACLU is free to come to your town and sue the heck out of it. And believe me, that organization will. The ACLU doesn't care about the law or the Constitution or what the people want. It's a fascist organization that uses lawyers instead of Panzers. It'll find a way to inflict financial damage on any concern that opposes its secular agenda and its growing in power.\n\nHe later went on to criticize the Boy Scout leadership for not standing up to the ACLU.\n\nOn October 16, 2006 at Mount Pleasant High School in Michigan, a student stood up publicly in the cafeteria and called the principal of the school \"a skank and a tramp.\" In addition to this, the student called the school administrators Nazis and questioned the sexuality of the vice-principal. The school suspended the boy for 10 days, an action that brought a lawsuit by the ACLU. O'Reilly criticized the ACLU for defending the remarks as satire when he saw it as hate speech.\n\nO'Reilly supported California Proposition 73 because it would have required parental notification of underage girls seeking an abortion. \"[T]he left-wing media has been able to convince millions of Americans that the government knows what's best for families, not the parents.\"\n\nO'Reilly strongly condemns doctors who provide legal abortion services. Since 2005, he has repeatedly referred to physician and abortion doctor George Tiller as \"Tiller the baby killer\" on his Fox News prime time show, claiming that there must be \"a special place in hell\" for him. In May 2009, Tiller was murdered by anti-abortion gunman Scott Roeder.\n\nO'Reilly ardently condemns the practice of partial birth abortion. He has criticized the practice being done without explanations being made and has criticized human rights groups such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch for not condemning the practice:\n\nOnce again, this isn't about a women's right to choose or the \"New York Times\" plea for reproductive rights. This is about late term abortions for just about any reason.\n\nO'Reilly supports the discussion (but not the advocation) of intelligent design in schools and considers the opinion of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Association for the Advancement of Science's opposition to such theories \"fascist\". O'Reilly has also suggested that Richard Dawkins' argument for how science should be taught in school is equivalent to fascism. He said he supports teachers saying that some people, especially in religious groups, believe that Charles Darwin's theory of evolution is wrong.\n\nO'Reilly has said that there is a lack of leadership among the traditionalists and this has emboldened the secular-progressive cause. He consistently says that using religion to justify public policy is wrong:\nRight now, religious people are the ones speaking out for traditional values. But America does not forge public policy based on religion. Thus as soon as God enters the debate, the secularists win. \n\nO'Reilly supports some forms of gun control, such as gun registration.\n\nO'Reilly opposed the nationalized health care plan that filmmaker Michael Moore argues for in his film \"Sicko\", saying it would create huge backlogs. He also said, however, that he thinks the government should perform more oversight functions on health care:\n\n...[G]overnment-run health care would be a disaster, featuring long waits for treatment and an enormous rise in taxation. But there should be government oversight on private insurance companies and strict guidelines about abusing customers.\n\nThere can be compromise and effective government control of medical care abuse in the USA. It is possible. But if Michael Moore's plan ever gets traction, pray hard you never get sick.\n\nO'Reilly's stance on LGBT issues has been evolving. \n\nOn October 27, 2004, he was quoted saying: “I've been saying that all along, that if you open the door for gay marriage, then you have to have the polygamists and the triads and the commune people and everybody else, right?”\nO'Reilly supports civil unions for gay and lesbian couples, but has said that nobody has the \"right\" to marry; he says that marriage, like driving a car, is a privilege, not a right. He has said that if the government felt marriage was a right, then it would not stop polygamists and incestuous couples from marrying. O'Reilly further explained his position in his book \"Culture Warrior\":\n\nTo this culture warrior, gay marriage is not a vital issue. I don't believe the republic will collapse if Larry marries Brendan. However, it is clear that most Americans want heterosexual marriage to maintain its special place in American society. And as long as gays are not penalized in the civil arena, I think the folks should make the call at the ballot box. Traditional marriage is widely seen as a social stabilizer, and I believe that is true.\n\nOn March 26, 2013, O'Reilly stated \"I support civil unions, I always have. The gay marriage thing, I don't feel that strongly about it one way or the other. I think the states should do it.\" O'Reilly then said, \"The compelling argument is on the side of homosexuals ... 'We're Americans, we just want to be treated like everybody else.' That's a compelling argument, and to deny that you've got to have a very strong argument on the other side. And the other side hasn't been able to do anything but thump the Bible.\n\nO'Reilly discussed a story surrounding around a teenage lesbian couple being elected as the \"cutest couple\" in their school yearbook. He stated that he believed that this couple was elected by the students to \"tweak the adults\" and to \"cause trouble\". He explains further here:\n\nHigh school kids, they experiment. They experiment all over the place, they have a chip on their shoulder. They do things just to get a reaction, just to rebel. Parents might say \"We don't want to normalize homosexuality in a public way in an academic setting among minors. We don't think that reflects how we feel about it\".\n\nO'Reilly is known to favor adoption by a same-sex couple since 2002.\n\nO'Reilly is opposed to the School Success and Opportunity Act (Assembly Bill 1266), which extends gender identity and expression discrimination protection to transgender and gender-nonconforming K-12 students in public schools. O'Reilly described the law as \"madness\" and \"anarchy\" on Fox News Channel.\n\nJust before the repeal of the \"Don't Ask, Don't Tell\" law banning homosexuals from openly serving in the military, he appeared on the Tonight Show and called the law \"nonsense\" and said he didn't understand why the President, in his role as commander in chief of the armed forces, simply didn't sign an executive order rescinding it.\n\nHe regularly criticizes jurists in controversial cases as \"activist judges.\" He uses the issue of gay marriage as an example. \"The folks decide that by voting and, in the case of gay marriage, the folks have decided. And that decision should be respected.\"\n\nHe has suggested convicted rapists, mass murderers, terrorists, and other people who commit crimes against humanity be sent to a gulag style prison in Alaska with strict rules and minimal privileges. He has said this would serve as a replacement for the death penalty, to which he is opposed.\n\nO'Reilly is a self-professed proponent of stricter penalties for child molesters. He has fervently supported Jessica's Law, and criticized the law's detractors. He has given verbal support for Republican Doug Forrester in the 2005 New Jersey gubernatorial election, suggesting that his opponent, Democrat Jon Corzine, would be less likely to support a national version of the law, though stopped short of actually endorsing Forrester.\n\nO'Reilly has been particularly critical of the Debra LaFave case, in which she was convicted of having sex with a 14-year-old boy, but was only sentenced to house arrest and seven years probation.\n\nHe criticizes many politicians who oppose mandatory minimum sentences for child molesters, and calls several states \"child predator-friendly.\"\n\nO'Reilly has been very critical of the U.S. film industry for producing films featuring violence and human suffering, such as the \"Saw\" series. He has compared this to the brutal displays of death in the Colosseums of ancient Rome. O'Reilly has said that films like these are marketed to children and can have consequences on their personal development. He commented on \"\":\nIt's the most violent movie ever made, featuring brutal dismemberments and a scalping close-up. And you should see the raves this movie is getting from the pinhead critics. And who's lining up to see it? Children, that's who.\nO'Reilly severely chastized billionaire Mark Cuban, owner of the Dallas Mavericks, for his support of Brian De Palma's film \"Redacted\" that portrayed the rape of an Iraqi girl by American soldiers. O'Reilly claimed that the film would be used as a recruiting tool by terrorists.\n\nO'Reilly has criticized the rap and hip hop industry for promoting an \"anti-social\" culture. He has said he does not care if adults listen to the music, but argues that children are not able to process the information and determine it to be destructive behavior. He has gone after several rappers such as 50 Cent, Jay Z, Jadakiss, Eminem, Lupe Fiasco, Nas, Ludacris, Lil Wayne, Common, Nelly, Snoop Dogg, and Young Jeezy:\nEvery educator that I've talked to, and I've talked to hundreds, say that the kind of gangsta rap that Ludacris traffics in has debased the culture, made it more difficult for them to teach children and indeed, led children into anti-social behavior.\nIn 2007, O'Reilly had a dispute with Nas after the rapper was hired to play a concert at Virginia Tech one year after the school had experienced the Virginia Tech massacre. \"Having a rapper who trades in violence perform at Virginia Tech insults the victims, the university and the entire commonwealth,\" declared Bill O'Reilly.\nNas subsequently called Bill O'Reilly a racist, and accused O'Reilly of going to extremes for publicity. He repeated this stance again in July 2008, when a dispute between Nas and O'Reilly led to Nas taking a petition to Fox News, and appearing on both Fox News, and \"The Colbert Report\". Also in 2008, Nas challenged Bill O'Reilly to a public debate, to which O'Reilly did not accept. \n\nIn May 2015, O'Reilly blamed the decline of American religion particularly the declining numbers of American Christians on hip hop music citing the genre as \"pernicious entertainment\" and an adducing factor for contributing to the decline. O'Reilly remarked that people of faith are being marginalized by a secular media and pernicious entertainment and rap industry often glorifies depraved behavior causing the minds of people who consume the music as the least likely to reject religion.\" American rapper Killer Mike subsequently criticized him for his remarks calling O'Reilly \"full of more s**t than an outhouse\" and then mocked him while he was a guest \"Real Time with Bill Maher\". \n\nSeveral rappers and hip hop producers have appeared on The O'Reilly Factor. Rapper Cam'ron and hip hop entrepreneur Damon Dash appeared on the program to defend their supposed corruption of young people, to which Damon Dash responded:\nSo, if you know there is negative in something, try to find the positive as opposed to always talking about the negative. That's the thing I don't understand, why we're criticized so hard within hip-hop. No one talks about the jobs we create, no one talks about the things we do within our community, and no one talks about the businesses we've done, how we've opened the doors and shown people that it's cool to be smart, it's cool to be a CEO, and it's cool to not take advantage but to reap the benefits of all your labor and to do it fairly.\n\nBill O'Reilly has also interviewed Marilyn Manson on the topic of being a \"dangerous\" influence on U.S. youth. O'Reilly asked Manson if he thought his work encouraged kids to have sex, homosexuality, use drugs and profanity. He also asked Manson whether his songs encouraged suicide or not. Marilyn Manson answered that in his view the songs were about getting through those feelings, and that ultimately people make their own decisions.\n\nO'Reilly believes the American news media is corrupt and often criticizes it for not reporting topics that hurt the liberal agenda. He has often stated that he is the only one in the media holding people accountable on both sides. In June 2007, \"Adweek Magazine\" sponsored a survey that asked participants who they trusted more as a source of political information between ABC News and O'Reilly. According to the poll, 36 percent believe that O'Reilly is a better source than ABC News, while 26 percent believe the opposite. According to the survey, 23 percent of Democrats believed that O'Reilly was a better source while 55 percent of Republicans believed the same.\n\nO'Reilly has criticized the media for not highlighting Rosie O'Donnell's controversial remarks saying the United States attacked itself on September 11th while they highlighted Ann Coulter's remarks about calling Senator John Edwards a \"fag.\" O'Reilly said in response to the situation:\nDoing the math, Ms. O'Donnell says something 100 times more offensive than Ms. Coulter, in my opinion, yet there's no coverage about it. But there's no left wing media bias in this country. Oh no!\n\nO'Reilly has criticized journalists who donate to political parties after a report stated that nine out of 10 journalists donated to Democrats or liberal causes; he has said this has resulted in news media tilting to the left.\n\nO'Reilly says that news coverage about positive improvements for American and Iraqi objectives in Iraq have been largely ignored. He conjectured that the ignoring of the positive news took place to help a Democrat win a presidential election.\n\nO'Reilly has asked his viewers and listeners to not patronize the following media outfits, saying those organizations \"have regularly helped distribute defamatory, false or non-newsworthy information supplied by far-left websites\":\n\n\nIn an interview with commentator Bill Maher, former CBS News anchor Dan Rather accused Fox News Channel of receiving \"talking points\" from the Republican controlled White House. O'Reilly criticized Rather heavily, responding that Rather did not offer any evidence to support the claim. O'Reilly cited his defense of Rather during the Memogate incident:\nAs you may remember, I defended Rather in the Bush National Guard debacle. I said Rather did not intentionally put on a bogus story. He just didn't check it out, he was too anxious for the story to be true.\n\nNow many of you criticized me for that defense, but I'm a fact-based guy. And there's no evidence Dan Rather fabricated anything. It was sloppy reporting that did him in.\n\nBut now the fabrication word is in play again. If Dan Rather has evidence of White House dictums coming to FOX News employees, he needs to display that evidence. We are awaiting his appearance. We'll let you know when it is.\n\nO'Reilly has gone after PBS personality Bill Moyers. O'Reilly criticized Moyers for having no balance in his presentations, citing a criticism by PBS' own ombudsman. He also called Moyers dishonest for making disparaging remarks about O'Reilly to \"Rolling Stone\" and then later denying he made the remarks when confronted by one of O'Reilly's producers.\n\nCNN journalists were prominent among those critical of O'Reilly when he stated that he \"couldn't get over the fact\" that a largely African-American crowd at a Harlem restaurant behaved no differently than patrons of a white restaurant and garnered media coverage O'Reilly objected to CNN's portrayal of his commentary, stating that CNN had been irresponsible in mischaracterizing his remark as racist, when in fact, he said, he was actually speaking against racism.\n\nO'Reilly scolded MSNBC and CNN for not providing coverage of the ceremony that awarded Lieutenant Michael P. Murphy the Medal of Honor during their primetime shows. O'Reilly said that \"[O]n their prime-time broadcast last night, CNN and MSNBC just said no to Lieutenant Michael Murphy and his proud family,\" that the networks \"despise the Bush administration and believe anything positive like American heroes in war zones, detract from their negative assessment of the administration\" and that they should not claim to support the troops and ignore their heroism. MSNBC and CNN had covered the events during their daytime programs.\n\nO'Reilly has criticized NBC News and their affiliated cable service MSNBC several times for their coverage of the war in Iraq, claiming that it is biased toward the war's opponents. He later called NBC News the most \"anti-military news operation in the country,\" when he cited an example of NBC correspondent William Arkin that called American troops \"mercenaries.\"\n\nHe also criticized the network of trying to downplay the War on Terror in the wake of American casualties in Iraq.\n\nRobert Greenwald, who had directed the controversial documentary \"Outfoxed\" that criticized O'Reilly and the Fox News Channel, put together an event of homeless veterans criticizing O'Reilly for calling John Edwards dishonest when Edwards asserted that there were about 200,000 homeless veterans. O'Reilly denied Edwards claim, stating \"They may be out there, but there are not many of them out there, OK. So if you know where there is a veteran sleeping under a bridge, you call me immediately, and we will make sure that man does not do it.\" After government statistics supported Edwards, O'Reilly then said that there was no linkage between the economy and homeless veterans and claims that Veterans Affairs has up to 150,000 beds ready for them every night. O'Reilly felt Greenwald's event was a \"contrived\" situation after O'Reilly's producers had interviewed some of the homeless veterans whom were protesting and found out that some did not actually hear O'Reilly's comments. O'Reilly blasted NBC's Steve Capus and the \"New York Daily News\" for covering the event and claimed that Capus did not know about the nature of the event.\n\nO'Reilly called NBC hypocritical for putting supporters of legalizing prostitution in the wake of Democratic Governor of New York Eliot Spitzer resigning his post after allegedly engaging in the act in an effort and felt they would not be as defensive if a Republican had gotten in trouble.\n\nAlthough he praised the late \"Meet the Press\" host Tim Russert in the past, O'Reilly criticized Russert for what he saw as a misinterpretation of what were seen as potentially racially insensitive comments by former President Bill Clinton. In his comments, Russert challenged Senator Hillary Clinton about her husband's remarks regarding Senator Barack Obama, when Mr. Clinton referred to Obama's position on Iraq as a \"fairy tale.\" O'Reilly said that Russert \"should have known better\" and realized the former President's comments were regarding Obama's Iraq policy and not his entire candidacy.\n\nO'Reilly would join in the criticism of others when NBC News was found to have doctored tapes on multiple occasions. The first was about accused killer George Zimmerman that portrayed Zimmerman as having a racial motivation. He also criticized veteran news correspondent Andrea Mitchell for her reporting of a doctored tape of Mitt Romney to portray him as out of touch. After the Sandy Hook Shooting, O'Reilly and others criticized MSNBC's Martin Bashir of dishonesty when Bashir only played a part of the entire tape that portrayed the father of a victim being heckled when the entire tape showed the audience only saying something after he made it clear he was looking for an answer. O'Reilly criticized MSNBC host Rachel Maddow showed a tape of Senator John McCain portraying him as insensitive to the plight of a person who lost a family member to gun violence. Although Maddow did readily admit the tape may have been doctored, O'Reilly criticized her nonetheless for airing it knowing that it could have been edited.\n\nO'Reilly has accused the print press of purposely misquoting him and using their hard news pages to further their editorial points of view. He has said that print media is too liberal and attacks opposing viewpoints.\n\nIn 2003, O'Reilly criticized the \"Los Angeles Times\" for endorsing then-governor Gray Davis, who was running against Arnold Schwarzenegger and a whole field of different candidates, including Republicans, Democrats and Independents, in a recall election. He said that he \"has never seen a newspaper try to destroy someone as aggressively as the \"Times\" is doing.\" He also criticized \"The New York Times\" on the same issue for referring to Schwarzenegger solely as a bodybuilder. He made the claim that Californians have canceled their subscriptions due to the \"extreme left-wing bias\" of the newspaper.\n\nO'Reilly has accused the media of being hypercritical of President Bush's handling of North Korea and Iran pursuing nuclear weapons while not being critical of President Bill Clinton for what was the same course of action.\n\nO'Reilly frequently criticizes \"The New York Times\", accusing them of omitting information that would be damaging to left-wing organizations and causes.\n\nOn March 15, 2007, \"The New York Times\" ran an editorial titled \"Immigration Misery\" that had claimed a \"screaming baby girl has been forcibly weaned from breast milk and taken dehydrated to an emergency room so that the nation's borders will be secure.\" Upon further investigation, the only two babies admitted to the hospital in the area of Bedford, Massachusetts (where the raid took place) were due to dehydration because of pneumonia and not as a result of being \"forcibly weaned.\" O'Reilly alleged that the information in the editorial was falsified and claimed \"The Times\" wanted to promote illegal immigration in order to make the illegal immigrants into legal US citizens and register them as Democrats.\n\nHe accused \"The Times\" of promoting NBC News over ABC News.\n\nOn June 2, 2007, Homeland Security stopped a plot by four terror suspects thought to be linked to Al Qaeda. Authorities have alleged that the suspects were trying to blow up an oil pipeline in the Howard Beach section of New York City that carries jet fuel to JFK Airport. O'Reilly went on his program and told his listeners that he expected \"The Times\" to report it as a featured story on its Sunday edition for June 3, but found that the story was on page 37. O'Reilly accused the newspaper of burying the story not to highlight a successful foiled terror plot because it contradicts the paper's editorial point of view. O'Reilly claims that as polls show most Americans feel Republicans would do a better job of handling a terrorist threat than Democrats, \"The Times\" intentionally gave the news less exposure in hopes of influencing their readers' focus away from issues that Democrats tend to poll weaker than Republicans in. O'Reilly has also said that the paper would highlight any terrorist attack if one was to occur so they may criticize the Bush Administration:\nSo \"The Times\" wins both ways. The paper diminishes the War on Terror by putting it on page 37, but if something bad ever happened, it can attack President Bush.\n\nO'Reilly has accused the paper of being deceptive about television ratings for \"The O'Reilly Factor\" against that of MSNBC during the same time slot, citing that the paper felt that MSNBC was \"competitive\" with his program when O'Reilly's ratings were significantly higher.\n\nO'Reilly has questioned the paper's interpretation of violence statistics among veterans of the military. His contention is that the paper is out to disparage the military as being overly violent after returning home from deployment in the War on Terror.\n\nO'Reilly criticized the paper for running an article alleging Senator John McCain had an \"inappropriate relationship\" during the lobbyist controversy story the paper had. O'Reilly raised the question about why the paper had endorsed McCain on January 25, 2008 for the Republican nomination if they had information that alleged an inappropriate relationship.\n\nIn May 2009, O'Reilly severely criticized the paper as \"corrupt\" for dropping a story about a possible violation of campaign laws by ACORN and the Obama campaign. O'Reilly claimed that sworn testimony before Congress by a former ACORN employee, Anita Moncrief corroborated the story. O'Reilly stated:\n\nStrong evidence suggests the paper killed a story linking ACORN to some Obama people. Instead they ran a general piece stating ACORN has a left-wing bias, knowing that story would be largely ignored while the Obama connection would not be.\n\nIn response, the \"New York Times\" ombudsman, Clark Hoyt stated it \"was a normal and reasonable editorial decision\" not to run the article. He said the \"Times\" had run four other stories on ACORN. The story in question had remained unpublished because Anita Moncrief had not provided independently verifiable proof. In addition, The Times ombudsman stated that Moncrief had not given sworn testimony to Congress as claimed by O'Reilly, and that she had credibility problems, having been fired from Acorn for employee theft.\n\nO'Reilly has accused a few liberal political websites of \"distorting the truth\" and \"engaging in hatred\":\nThere are no rules. These people will do and say pretty much anything to harm people with whom they disagree politically.\n\nThe trend started back in the Clinton-Lewinsky days, and now thousands of bloggers are operating, throwing dirt all over the place. Now they're not all bad. Some of these bloggers are good, accurate watchdogs. But there are plenty of awful ones. \n\nHe has criticized the \"Daily Kos\" website, accusing it of calling for increased attacks upon American troops in Iraq, and for Iran to attack Israel. O'Reilly has also alleged that \"Daily Kos\" bloggers have called the Pope a primate and evangelicals \"nut cases\", that they wish for the success of any subsequent attempts at the assassination of Vice President Dick Cheney after he avoided an attempt on his life in Afghanistan during a 2007 visit, and have said that the world is \"better off\" without White House Press Secretary Tony Snow when Snow publicly said he had cancer.\n\nIn summer of 2007, O'Reilly said that the entire field of 2008 Democratic presidential candidates (aside from Senator Joseph Biden) went to the Yearly Kos convention that was sponsored by the Daily Kos. He has said that sites like the Kos are taking control of the Democratic Party through intimidation:\nAs we have been reporting, a group of far-left bloggers has succeeded in frightening most of the Democratic presidential candidates and moving the party significantly to the left, at least in the primary season. The lead intimidators are \"MoveOn\", \"Media Matters\" and the vicious \"Daily Kos\". These people savagely attack those with whom they disagree. And the politicians don't want to become smear targets.\n\nSo most of the Democratic candidates have agreed to speak at the Kos convention this coming weekend, something that is beyond shameful. \n\nO'Reilly has compared the Huffington Post to the Nazis and the KKK. He also called MoveOn.org the \"new Klan.\" In response, Arianna Huffington wrote that O'Reilly had confused bloggers with anonymous commentors and suggested he enroll in \"How to Use the Internet 101.\" Huffington alleged that offensive comments are taken down from her site when confronted by one of O'Reilly's producers. She also noted that offensive comments are posted by users of O'Reilly's own site, billoreilly.com. O'Reilly alleged that Huffington had no standards of conduct and did not remove comments about wishing Nancy Reagan had died after she fell that were written on her site. \"She says it is down, but it is not. She does not tell the truth.\" O'Reilly later alleged that Huffington implied Pope Benedict XVI was a Nazi. O'Reilly referred to a satirical article written by comedian Chris Kelly, which mocked O'Reilly on Huffington's website.\n\nO'Reilly generally supports the notion of a clean environment, although he has said that he is not entirely certain that fossil fuels are the cause of global warming. Nonetheless, he has expressed support for a long-term strategy to curb fossil fuel use. He has said he would not support the Kyoto Treaty for economic reasons, but supports the use of fewer polluting agents, more conservation, and \"tons more innovation\" such as tax credits for alternative fuels. He has said that renewable energy is a waste of time because \"God controls the climate\" and that \"nobody can control the climate except God, so give a little extra at mass\".\n\nO'Reilly is a frequent critic of government welfare and poverty programs. He is also critical of the estate tax. However, he does not differentiate between the marginal tax rate (46 percent) and the \"effective\" tax rate (roughly 9 percent).\n\nO'Reilly has said French unemployment and subsequent riots are the \"common effects of socialist thinking\". He claims the French unemployment rate is high because of entitlements sanctioned by the French government, and that these entitlements make employers hesitant to hire young employees for fear that they will be required to give benefits to underperforming workers.\n\nHe says he supports income-based affirmative action as opposed to race-related affirmative action.\n\nO'Reilly has been critical of companies doing business with countries that are hostile to the United States. O'Reilly criticized General Electric for doing business with Iran. O'Reilly cited how NBC News' correspondent John Hockenberry did a report on \"Dateline\" highlighting GE's business relationship with the Bin Laden family and was criticized by the company, who owns NBC, for the \"Dateline\" report.\n\nO'Reilly questions the free market by suggesting that the oil companies need an excuse to raise prices thereby overlooking the fact that in a free market, oil companies have the right to increase prices so as to increase profits or for any other reason. Rather than praise oil companies for their record profits, O'Reilly has been critical of oil companies, claiming their record profits are evidence that they have price-gouged Americans with artificially high gas prices. and has said he is personally boycotting products by Exxon-Mobil. It therefore appears that O'Reilly does not recognize profit maximization as a virtue. He has often taken an opposing point of view to conservatives such as fellow Fox News analyst and commentator, Neil Cavuto. During one discussion on The O'Reilly Factor, Cavuto accused O'Reilly of \"push[ing] populist nonsense.\" He said blocking Brazilian ethanol imports was \"awful\" and has criticized both the Bush Administration and the Clinton Administration for not doing enough to stem the cost of oil from \"foreign predators\".\n\nIn a May 8, 2006 article published at the Jewish World Review, O'Reilly said, \"There is no question that illegal workers deliver more profit to business than American workers do. A Harvard study says that the employment of illegal foreign workers has driven down wages among American high school dropouts, the lowest labor pool rung, by 7 percent.\"\n\nBill O'Reilly on his show \"The O'Reilly Factor\" has expressed the view that \"if everybody followed the teachings of Jesus Christ, [...] we'd have peace on earth, [...] everybody would love one another, and we'd almost be an idyllic civilization.\"\n\nO'Reilly claims that the United States is not doing enough to make itself independent of foreign oil, stating that \"There's no way the ethanol industry could be dominated by five mega-companies. I mean corn and sugar cannot be carteled. The oil racket is simple: We control the marketplace, and you have to buy from us. ... If Brazil can develop an ethanol industry that makes it completely independent of foreign oil, then the USA can.\"\n"}
{"id": "23070025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23070025", "title": "Political views of Christopher Hitchens", "text": "Political views of Christopher Hitchens\n\nChristopher Hitchens (13 April 1949 – 15 December 2011) was a British-American author, polemicist, debater and journalist who in his youth took part in demonstrations against the Vietnam War, joined organisations such as the International Socialists while at university and began to identify as a socialist. However, after the 11 September attacks he no longer regarded himself as a socialist and his political thinking became largely dominated by the issue of defending civilization from terrorists and against the totalitarian regimes that protect them. Hitchens nonetheless continued to identify as a Marxist, endorsing the materialist conception of history, but believed that Karl Marx had underestimated the revolutionary nature of capitalism. He sympathized with libertarian ideals of limited state interference, but considered libertarianism not to be a viable system. In the 2000 U.S. presidential election, he supported the independent candidate Ralph Nader. After 9/11, Hitchens advocated the invasion of Iraq. In the 2004 election, he very slightly favored the incumbent Republican President George W. Bush or was neutral and in 2008 he favored the Democratic candidate Barack Obama.\n\nAlexander Linklater has summarized Hitchens' basic intellectual outlook as follows:\n\nHitchens was a vocal supporter of Republicanism in the United Kingdom, advocating the abolition of the Monarchy, and in 1990 published the book-long polemic \"The Monarchy: A Critique of Britain's Favourite Fetish\". His 1998 documentary \"Princess Diana: The Mourning After\" accused the British media of playing an essential role in creating a national, unchallengeable, and at times hysterical cult of personality surrounding the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, whereas previously they had been extremely critical of her and the monarchy after she had separated and divorced from Charles, Prince of Wales, and was having an affair with Egyptian billionaire son Dodi Fayed. Hitchens claimed the public were behaving irrationally, and that many appeared to not even know why they were mourning. He also scrutinised the level of censorship against criticism of Diana and the monarchy but was accused, in a review by \"The Independent\", of exaggerating on this point.\n\nIn 1965, Hitchens joined the Labour Party on the very first day he was eligible to vote, but along with the majority of the Labour students' organization was expelled in 1967, because of what Hitchens called \"Prime Minister Harold Wilson's contemptible support for the war in Vietnam\". Since then he stated he had \"re-enlisted a few times\" back into the Labour Party. In a 2001 interview with \"Reason\", he said, in 1979, that even though he was a member of the Labour Party, that he wasn't going to vote for the Labour Party, nor could he bring himself to \"vote conservative.\" He didn't vote at all in that election. He also stated that by not voting for the Labour Party he was effectively voting for Margaret Thatcher to win, which he said he had \"secretly hoped would happen.\" In a 2005 \"Vanity Fair\" article, he endorsed Tony Blair in the 2005 general election, mainly due to his support for the 2003 invasion of Iraq. In a 2009 \"Slate\" article, he described that in the late 1970s the Labour Party moved to the right and stated that the downfall of the Labour Party was when Gordon Brown became the Prime Minister.\n\nDuring a debate with George Galloway in 2005, Hitchens revealed that he was \"a lifelong supporter of the reunification of Ireland,\" and was critical of Galloway's opposing views on the war, as well as his \"insulting\" attitude towards the U.S. Senate. Many times, when discussing \"the Troubles\" in Northern Ireland, Hitchens would refer to their location as simply \"Ireland\", rather than \"Northern Ireland\", as for example in an article written for \"Slate\" in 2007, discussing the power-sharing and devolved government in Northern Ireland and describing it as \"an agreement to divide the spoils of Ireland's six northeastern counties\". During the IRA bombing campaigns on the British mainland, which began in the nineteen-seventies, Hitchens claimed that he had \"kept two sets of books: I didn’t like bombs, I didn’t like the partition of Ireland.\"\n\nIn a 2001 interview with \"Reason\", Hitchens said he had been interested in libertarian ideas when he was younger, but set aside those interests in the 1960s. He stated that capitalism had become the more revolutionary economic system, and he welcomed globalisation as \"innovative and internationalist\", but added, \"I don't think that the contradictions, as we used to say, of the system, are by any means all resolved.\" He also stated that he had a renewed interest in the freedom of the individual from the state, but that he still considered libertarianism \"ahistorical\" both on the world stage and in the work of creating a stable and functional society, adding that libertarians are \"more worried about the over-mighty state than the unaccountable corporation\" whereas \"the present state of affairs ... combines the worst of bureaucracy with the worst of the insurance companies.\" He also said that libertarians did not have a clear foreign policy stance.\n\nIn a 2001 C-SPAN appearance, he told a caller:\n\nHitchens said of Objectivism, “I have always found it quaint, and rather touching, that there is a movement in the US that thinks Americans are not yet selfish enough.”\n\nIn a 2001 interview with \"Reason\", Hitchens said he became a Marxist and a Trotskyist in his teens, beliefs that further developed during his time at Balliol College, Oxford. In 1966, he was demonstrating in Trafalgar Square against the Vietnam War. In 1967, he joined the International Socialists while at Balliol College, Oxford. Under the influence of Peter Sedgwick, who translated the writings of Russian revolutionary and Soviet dissident Victor Serge, Hitchens forged an ideological interest in Trotskyist and anti-Stalinist socialism. Shortly after he joined \"a small but growing post-Trotskyist Luxemburgist sect\". He became a socialist \"largely [as] the outcome of a study of history, taking sides ... in the battles over industrialism and war and empire.\" He was also drawn into the political left by his anger over the Vietnam War, nuclear weapons, racism and \"oligarchy\", including that of \"the unaccountable corporation.\" He also said in the same interview with \"Reason\" that he could no longer say \"I am a socialist\". Socialists, he claimed, had ceased to offer a positive alternative to the capitalist system.\n\nIn 2006, in a town hall meeting in Pennsylvania debating the Jewish Tradition with Martin Amis, Hitchens commented on his political philosophy by stating, \"I am no longer a socialist, but I still am a Marxist\". In a June 2010 interview with \"The New York Times\", he stated that \"I still think like a Marxist in many ways. I think the materialist conception of history is valid. I consider myself a very conservative Marxist\". In 2009, in an article for \"The Atlantic\" entitled \"The Revenge of Karl Marx\", Hitchens frames the late-2000s recession in terms of Marx's economic analysis and notes how much Marx admired the capitalist system that he called for the end of, but says that Marx ultimately failed to grasp how revolutionary capitalist innovation was. Hitchens was an admirer of Che Guevara, yet in an essay written in 1997, he distanced himself from Che, and referred to the mythos surrounding him as a \"cult\". In 2004 he re-emphasized his positive view of Che, commenting that \"[Che's] death meant a lot to me and countless like me at the time. He was a role model, albeit an impossible one for us bourgeois romantics insofar as he went and did what revolutionaries were meant to do – fought and died for his beliefs.\"\n\nHe continued to regard Leon Trotsky and Vladimir Lenin as great men, and the October Revolution as a necessary event in the modernisation of Russia. In 2005, Hitchens praised Lenin's creation of \"secular Russia\" and his attacks on the Russian Orthodox Church, describing the church's power as \"absolute warren of backwardness and evil and superstition\".\n\nIn \"God is not Great\", Hitchens called Marxism his \"own secular faith\" that \"has been shaken and discarded, not without pain.\" He referred to his period of Marxist faith as \"when I was a Marxist.\"\n\nAccording to Andrew Sullivan, his last words were \"Capitalism, downfall.\"\n\nHitchens became increasingly disenchanted by the presidency of Bill Clinton, accusing him of being a rapist and a liar. Hitchens also claimed that the missile attacks by Clinton on Sudan constituted a war crime.\n\nHitchens supported Ralph Nader in the 2000 US presidential election. He elaborated on his support for Nader in a discussion with Eric Alterman on Bloggingheads.tv, indicating that he was disenchanted with the candidacy of both George W. Bush and Al Gore.\n\nPrior to 11 September 2001, and the invasion of Iraq and Afghanistan, Hitchens was critical of President George W. Bush's \"non-interventionist\" foreign policy. He also criticised Bush's support of intelligent design and capital punishment. Hitchens defended Bush's post-11 September foreign policy, but he also criticised the actions of US troops in Abu Ghraib and Haditha, and the US government's use of waterboarding, which, after voluntarily undergoing it, he argued was definitely torture.\n\nHitchens supported George W. Bush in the 2004 US presidential election. He made a brief return to \"The Nation\" just before the election and wrote that he was \"slightly\" for Bush; shortly afterwards, \"Slate\" polled its staff on their positions on the candidates and mistakenly printed Hitchens's vote as pro-John Kerry. Hitchens shifted his opinion to \"neutral\", saying: \"It's absurd for liberals to talk as if Kristallnacht is impending with Bush, and it's unwise and indecent for Republicans to equate Kerry with capitulation. There's no one to whom he can surrender, is there? I think that the nature of the jihadist enemy will decide things in the end\".\n\nHitchens supported Barack Obama in the 2008 presidential election. In an article for \"Slate\" he stated, \"I used to call myself a single-issue voter on the essential question of defending civilization against its terrorist enemies and their totalitarian protectors, and on that 'issue' I hope I can continue to expose and oppose any ambiguity.\" He was critical of both main party candidates, Obama and John McCain, but wrote that Obama would be the better choice. Hitchens went on to call McCain \"senile\", and his choice of running mate Sarah Palin \"absurd\", calling Palin a \"pathological liar\" and a \"national disgrace\". Hitchens also wrote that \"Obama is greatly overrated\" and that the Obama-Biden ticket \"show[s] some signs of being able and willing to profit from experience\".\n\nAfter his disenchantment with socialism, Hitchens increasingly emphasized the centrality of the American Revolution and the U.S. Constitution to his political philosophy. As early as 2002, Hitchens wrote, \"as the third millennium gets under way, and as the Russian and Chinese and Cuban revolutions drop below the horizon, it is possible to argue that the American revolution, with its promise of cosmopolitan democracy, is the only ‘model’ revolution that humanity has left to it\". His enthusiasm for the U.S. Bill of Rights contrasts with a dim opinion of constitutional politics on the other side of the Atlantic. Hitchens notes, \"the utter failure [of the EU] to compose a viable constitution\" and the \"brevity of the British constitution, perhaps because the motherland of the English-speaking peoples has absent-mindedly failed to evolve one in written form\".\n\nHitchens cited the Bosnian War as something that monumentally changed his views on military intervention, noting that he for the first time found himself on the side of neoconservatives. In an interview with Johann Hari he said:\n\nHitchens argued that the choice in Yugoslavia was between a multi-ethnic plural democracy led by Muslim president Alija Izetbegović in Bosnia and a fascistic, nationalistically inspired ethnically-cleansed state driven by Serbian leader Slobodan Milošević. He called Milošević a fascist and a \"national-socialist\", and condemned his war crimes in the Yugoslav Wars. But he also considered the Croatian nationalist president Franjo Tudjman \"equally disgusting\" for colluding with Milošević on a partition of Bosnia and empowering Croatian war criminals. In \"God Is Not Great\", he wrote about Christian Orthodox Serbian and Roman Catholic Croatian nationalism- and religion-inspired crimes against the Muslim Bosnians, at the hands of proponents of \"Greater Serbia\" and Croatian \"revived Ustashe formations\" during this period which are \"often forgotten\". He was highly critical of Western inaction in protection of the Muslims, partially blaming this on the Clinton administration and specifically Hillary Clinton.\n\nHitchens deplored and opposed the 1990–91 Gulf War in which the US expelled Iraq from Kuwait after a seven-month invasion and occupation of its neighbor undertaken in an effort to absorb it as its 19th province. He contended that President George H. W. Bush's supposedly principled enthusiasm for the \"cause\" of \"liberating\" Kuwait was nothing more than \"realpolitik\". In the continuation of a national policy dating back to Henry Kissinger and Richard Nixon in 1972, the latest \"cause was yet another move in the policy of keeping a region divided and embittered, and therefore accessible to the franchisers of weaponry and the owners of black gold\".\n\nHowever, after the war, Hitchens scolded those within the US who had opposed the war by observing that \"the peace movement in this country in my opinion acted in a very narrow, isolationist, and almost chauvinistic way. It said that a war was more or less alright with it as long as it could be guaranteed in advance that American casualties could be kept low... I thought that was a dishonourably narrow way of approaching the question. ... When large numbers of Iraqis were turned into soap...and many others, as we've since found out, were bulldozed and buried alive and in other ways done away with and people don't even want to think about the body count ...because they’re afraid of what they might find out.\"\n\nHitchens described Zionism as being based on Herzl's \"initial demagogic lie (actually two lies) that a land without a people needs a people without a land.\" He went further, saying \"Zionism is a form of Bourgeoisie Nationalism\" when debating the Jewish Tradition with Martin Amis at a Town hall function in Pennsylvania\" Hitchens supported Israel's right to exist, but argued that \"one must not insult or degrade or humiliate people\" and that he \"would be opposed to this maltreatment of the Palestinians if it took place on a remote island with no geopolitical implications\".\n\nHitchens described Zionism as \"an ethno-nationalist quasi-religious ideology\" but argued that Zionism \"... nonetheless has founded a sort of democratic state which isn't any worse in its practice than many others with equally dubious origins.\" He stated that settlement in order to achieve security for Israel is \"doomed to fail in the worst possible way\", and the cessation of this \"appallingly racist and messianic delusion\" would \"confront the internal clerical and chauvinist forces which want to instate a theocracy for Jews\". Hitchens contended that the \"solution of withdrawal would not satisfy the jihadists\" and wondered \"What did they imagine would be the response of the followers of the Prophet [Muhammad]?\" Hitchens bemoaned the transference of Arab secularism into religious terrorism as a means of democratisation: \"the most depressing and wretched spectacle of the past decade, for all those who care about democracy and secularism, has been the degeneration of Palestinian Arab nationalism into the theocratic and thanatocratic hell of Hamas and Islamic Jihad\". He maintained that the Israel-Palestine conflict is a \"trivial squabble\" that has become \"so dangerous to all of us\" because of \"the faith-based element.\"\n\nOn 14 November 2004, Hitchens noted:\nHitchens had previously collaborated on this issue with Edward Said, publishing the 1988 book \"Blaming the Victims: Spurious Scholarship and the Palestinian Question\".\n\nHitchens had said of himself, \"I am an Anti-Zionist. I'm one of those people of Jewish descent who believes that Zionism would be a mistake even if there were no Palestinians.\"\n\nA review of his autobiography \"Hitch-22\" in \"The Jewish Daily Forward\" refers to Hitchens \"at the time [that he had learned that his grandparents were Jews, he had been] a prominent anti-Zionist\" and says that he viewed Zionism \"as an injustice against the Palestinians\". Others have commented on his anti-Zionism as well. At other times for example speaking at 2nd annual Memorial for Daniel Pearl, and in print in an article for \"The Atlantic\" he had made comments against the terrorism against Jews in the Middle East. Hitchens stated \"But the Jews of the Arab lands were expelled again in revenge for the defeat of Palestinian nationalistic aspirations, in 1947–48, and now the absolute most evil and discredited fabrication of Jew-baiting Christian Europe – The Protocols of the Elders of Zion – is eagerly promulgated in the Hamas charter and on the group's Web site and recycled through a whole nexus of outlets that includes schools as well as state-run television stations\".\n\nIn \"Slate\" magazine, Hitchens pondered the notion that, instead of curing antisemitism through the creation of a Jewish state, \"Zionism has only replaced and repositioned\" it, saying: \"there are three groups of 6 million Jews. The first 6 million live in what the Zionist movement used to call Palestine. The second 6 million live in the United States. The third 6 million are distributed mainly among Russia, France, Britain, and Argentina. Only the first group lives daily in range of missiles that can be (and are) launched by people who hate Jews.\" Hitchens argued that instead of supporting Zionism, Jews should help \"secularise and reform their own societies\", believing that unless one is religious, \"what the hell are you doing in the greater Jerusalem area in the first place?\" Indeed, Hitchens claimed that the only justification for Zionism given by Jews is a religious one.\n\nHitchens was a longtime observer of the cruelty of Saddam Hussein and publicly called for his removal, albeit only beginning in 1998. This led him to support the establishment of a self-governing state for the Kurds with political autonomy, if not full independence.\n\nHe also consistently wore a lapel pin with the flag of Kurdistan on it, to show his solidarity with the Kurds.\n\nIn the months following the 9/11 attacks, Hitchens and Noam Chomsky debated the nature of radical Islam and the proper response to it in a highly charged exchange of letters in \"The Nation\", including discussion of whether any comparison could be legitimately made between the 9/11 attacks and the 1998 Al Shifa bombing by the US. Approximately a year after the 9/11 attacks and his exchanges with Chomsky, Hitchens left \"The Nation\", claiming that its editors, readers and contributors considered John Ashcroft a bigger threat than Osama bin Laden, and were making excuses on behalf of Islamist terrorism; in the following months he wrote articles increasingly at odds with his former colleagues. Hitchens was also severely criticized by Norman Finkelstein, an American political scientist and Hitchens's former friend. Citing Hitchens's support for the Iraq and Afghanistan Wars, as well as Hitchens's critique of Mel Gibson's \"Passion of the Christ\", Finkelstein called Hitchens a \"model apostate,\" a \"dirt bag,\" and a \"showboat run amuck\" who is \"dying for the camera.\"\n\nHitchens strongly supported US military actions in Afghanistan, particularly in his \"Fighting Words\" columns in \"Slate\".\n\nHitchens' employment of the term \"Islamofascist\" and his support for the Iraq War caused his critics to label him a \"neoconservative\". Hitchens, however, refused to embrace this designation, insisting, \"I'm not any kind of conservative\". In 2004, Hitchens stated that neoconservative support for US intervention in Iraq convinced him that he was \"on the same side as the neo-conservatives\" when it came to contemporary foreign policy issues, and characterized himself as an unqualified \"supporter of Paul Wolfowitz.\" He was also known to refer to his association with \"temporary neocon allies\". In this period he opined that \"the Bush administration [...] has redefined the lazy term 'conservative' to mean someone who is impatient with the status quo.\"\n\nIn the years after the \"fatwa\" issued against Salman Rushdie in response to his novel \"The Satanic Verses\", Hitchens became increasingly critical of what he called \"excuse making\" on the left. At the same time, he was attracted to the foreign policy ideas of some on the Republican-right that promoted pro-liberalism intervention, especially the neoconservative group that included Paul Wolfowitz. Around this time, he befriended the Iraqi dissident and businessman Ahmed Chalabi.\n\nChristopher Hitchens argued the case for the Iraq War in a 2003 collection of essays entitled \"\", and participated in public debates on the topic with George Galloway, Scott Ritter, and his brother Peter Hitchens. In its obituary of Hitchens, \"The Economist\" wrote that, \"on the most consequential political issue of the last decade of his life, the bullshit got him.\"\n\nHitchens criticised human rights abuses by US forces in Iraq but argued that conditions had improved considerably compared either to Saddam Hussein's previous regime or to previous US military actions in Vietnam.\n\nIn 2005, Hitchens criticised the abuse of prisoners in Abu Ghraib but argued that overall \"prison conditions at Abu Ghraib have improved markedly and dramatically since the arrival of Coalition troops in Baghdad\", arguing that \"before March 2003, Abu Ghraib was an abattoir, a torture chamber, and a concentration camp.\"\n\nIn a 5 June 2006 article on the alleged killings of Iraqi civilians by U.S. Marines in Haditha, Hitchens argued that whether or not a massacre had taken place, comparisons with the My Lai massacre in Vietnam were \"so much propaganda and hot air\" that ignored substantial changes in the rules of engagement and US Army procedures and training designed to prevent and discourage such an event. He argued that lesson had been learned such that \"as a consequence, a training film about My Lai – \"if anything like this happens, you have really, truly screwed up\" – has been in use for U. S. soldiers for some time\".\n\nIn a variety of articles and interviews, Hitchens asserted that British intelligence was correct in claiming that Saddam had attempted to buy uranium from Niger, and that US envoy Joseph Wilson had been dishonest in his public denials of it. He also pointed to discovered munitions in Iraq that violated U. N. Security Council Resolutions 686 and 687, the cease-fire agreements ending the 1991 Iraq-Kuwait conflict.\n\nOn 19 March 2007, Hitchens asked himself whether Western intelligence sources should have known that Iraq had \"no stockpiles of weapons of mass destruction.\" In his response, Hitchens stated that:\n\nIn July 2007, the \"New Statesman\" printed selected portions of a 1976 piece by Hitchens which they claimed \"took a more admiring view of the Iraqi dictator\" than his later strong support for ousting Saddam Hussein. In this Hitchens pointed to Iraq's military strength, oil reserves and young leadership to argue that Iraq was \"a force to be reckoned with\" and described Saddam Hussein as a leader \"who has sprung from being an underground revolutionary gunman to perhaps the first visionary Arab statesman since Nasser.\" He also argued:\n\nHe argued that the means through which the Baathist regime rose to power were similar to that of Iran: having crushed any political dissent and notions of an independent Kurdish state. He stated that the Ba'ath party \"point to efforts made by the party press to stimulate criticism of revolutionary shortcomings\" but that these \"fall rather short of permitting any organised opposition\". He claimed that Iraq defended this by claiming \"that the country is surrounded by enemies and attacked by imperialist intrigue\" but that this had led to the repression of Kurdish nationalists.\n\nHitchens was asked by \"Vanity Fair\" to experience waterboarding for himself at a U.S. Army training facility. In May 2008, Hitchens voluntarily underwent the procedure. Hitchens stopped the procedure after 11 seconds and subsequently endorsed the view that it was \"torture.\" He concluded, \"If waterboarding does not constitute torture, then there is no such thing as torture.\"\n\nHitchens described Lebanon as \"the most plural society in the region\" and criticized the Syrian regime for continuing to manipulate the country by proxies and by surrogates notably Hezbollah and the SSNP. \n\nIn an article written on \"Slate\", Hitchens stated:\n\nHitchens stated, \"[an] unborn child seems to me to be a real concept. It's not a growth or an appendix. You can't say the rights question doesn't come up. I don't think a woman should be forced to choose, or even can be\", and, \"as a materialist, I think it has been demonstrated that an embryo is a separate body and entity\". Showing a desire to recognise the unborn as a life, he also affirmed a need for the right to abortion, stating, \"the second-best fallback solution, which may sometimes be desirable for other reasons, is termination of pregnancy... all thinking people recognise a painful conflict of rights and interest in this question\" \n\nHitchens opposed the overturning of Roe v. Wade and instead hoped for science to develop new solutions to unwanted pregnancies \"that will make abortion more like a contraceptive procedure than a surgical one.\" He strongly criticized the encouragement of sexual abstinence within the pro-life movement of the Christian right, and the equating of contraceptives to abortion, as expressed by Mother Teresa and representatives of the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nHitchens was a lifelong opponent of capital punishment. In a 2001 interview with \"Reason\", Hitchens recalled that this was the very first issue on which he ever decided to take a stand in his youth. The reason for his opposition to capital punishment was that it gave too much power to the government. He later publicly opposed use of the death penalty for Saddam Hussein, an issue he discussed at length in his November 2006 essay \"Don't Hang Saddam\" for \"Slate\".\n\nHitchens has called for the abolition of the \"War on Drugs,\" which he described as an \"authoritarian war\" during a debate with William F. Buckley. Hitchens favored the legalization of cannabis for both recreational and medicinal purposes, and said, \"Marijuana is a medicine. I have heard and read convincing arguments and had convincing testimony from real people who say that marijuana is a very useful medicine for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced nausea and for glaucoma. To keep that out of the reach of the sick, it seems to me, is sadistic\".\n\nHitchens was a notable genital integrity activist, strongly criticizing the tradition of both male circumcision and female genital mutilation. In accordance with his antitheism, Hitchens described the tolerance of \"metzitzah b'peh\" (a Jewish tradition of sucking blood from the penis after the removal of the male foreskin) as \"another disgusting religious practice\".\n\nHitchens philosophically supported gun rights and was generally opposed to gun control. On the subject of the second amendment, Hitchens argued that as both an outright ban on guns and relying on a citizen militia for the national defence were equally as idealistic and utopian, and that as gun control created a duopoly of force between the state and criminals, it would be more desirable to encourage training among average citizens so they might develop a better relationship with firearms. Although Hitchens repeatedly stated a broad support for the right to keep and bear arms, he was not an enthusiastic advocate and he rarely publicly discussed his views.\n\nHitchens was a supporter of LGBT rights. He opposed sodomy laws and supported same-sex marriage. He argued that the legalization of same-sex marriage was the \"socialization of homosexuality\" and \"demonstrates the spread of conservatism\" among the gay community.\n\nIn January 2006, Hitchens joined with four other individuals and four organisations, including the American Civil Liberties Union and Greenpeace, as plaintiffs in a lawsuit, \"ACLU v. NSA\", challenging Bush's warrantless domestic spying program; the lawsuit was filed by the ACLU.\n\nIn March 2005, Hitchens supported further investigation into voting irregularities in Ohio during the 2004 presidential election.\n\nAt the New York Public Library in May 2007, Hitchens debated Al Sharpton on the issue of theism and anti-theism, giving rise to a memorable exchange about Mormonism in particular.\n\nIn \"God is Not Great\", Hitchens contended that,\n\nHitchens was accused of \"anti-Catholic bigotry\" by others, including Brent Bozell and UCLA Law Professor Stephen Bainbridge. When Joe Scarborough on 12 March 2004 asked Hitchens whether he was \"consumed with hatred for conservative Catholics\", Hitchens responded that he was not and that he just thinks that \"all religious belief is sinister and infantile\".\n\nIn 2005, Hitchens praised Lenin's creation of \"secular Russia\" and his destruction of the Russian Orthodox Church, describing it as \"an absolute warren of backwardness and evil and superstition.\" In an interview with \"Radar\" in 2007, Hitchens said that if the Christian right's agenda were implemented in the United States \"It wouldn't last very long and would, I hope, lead to civil war, which they will lose, but for which it would be a great pleasure to take part.\"\n\nOn 4 April 2009, Hitchens debated Christian philosopher William Lane Craig at Biola University on the topic \"Does God Exist?\" before both a live and closed circuit audience of over 15,000.\n\nHitchens was deeply shocked by the 14 February 1989 \"fatwa\" against his longtime friend Salman Rushdie. He became increasingly critical of what he called \"theocratic fascism\" or \"fascism with an Islamic face\": radical Islamists who supported the \"fatwa\" against Rushdie and sought the recreation of the medieval caliphate.\n\nHitchens is often credited with coining the term \"Islamofascism\", but Hitchens himself denied it, attributing its coinage to Malise Ruthven. Hitchens did use the term \"Islamic fascism\" for an article he wrote for \"The Nation\", shortly after the September 11 attacks, but this phrase also had an earlier history. For example, it was used in \"The Washington Post\" on 13 January 1979; it also appears to have been used by secularists in Turkey and Afghanistan to describe their opponents.\n\nIn February 2006, Hitchens helped organize a pro-Denmark rally outside the Danish Embassy in Washington, DC, in response to the \"Jyllands-Posten\" Muhammad cartoons controversy.\n\nHitchens was extremely critical of the doctrinal claims of Mormonism and opposed the candidacy of Mitt Romney.\n"}
{"id": "43097886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43097886", "title": "Quentin Crewe", "text": "Quentin Crewe\n\nQuentin Hugh Crewe (14 November 1926 – 14 November 1998) was an English journalist, author, restaurateur and adventurer. He was diagnosed with muscular dystrophy at age 6 and it was predicted he would be dead by 16 years old. He was not told this and lived to 72. He wrote regularly for the \"Evening Standard\", \"Queen\" magazine, the \"Daily Mail\" and \"Sunday Mirror,\" among others. Crewe travelled much of the world, writing 11 books on the subject of his journeys, biographies and cuisine. Crewe was co-proprietor of various restaurants, including the now-defunct Brasserie St. Quentin in Knightsbridge, London.\n\nCrewe was born Quentin Hugh Dodds in 1926, the second son of Major (James) Hugh Hamilton Dodds, CMG, a career diplomat (amongst other postings, Consul-General at Nice), and Lady Annabel Crewe-Milnes, the daughter of the Marquess of Crewe. His older brother, Terence O'Neill, was a politician who served as the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland from 1963 to 1969.\n\nDuring Crewe's early childhood, his father was British Consul in Sicily, before being transferred to the French Riviera when his friendship with Haile Selassie made it impossible to remain in Italy. With his parents living abroad, the young Quentin spent much of his childhood in the care of various relatives in England. His father was keen that he should be a sportsman, and tried to teach him to shoot, fence or ride, without any success. Crewe would regularly fall over.\n\nCrewe was educated at Eton, where he was expelled after copying a fire door key and secretly going to London for a day. He went on to Trinity College, Cambridge and tried to study law and economics, but he spent so much time partying that he was expelled for indolence. He was falling over so much that he took to walking with a stick, although he did achieve sporting success as a cox. In 1945 his family changed their name to Crewe after his mother inherited what remained of Lord Crewe's estates.\n\nDespite the doctor's gloomy prediction of a death by 16, Crewe survived his teens, although he did become weaker and his falls more frequent. His condition steadily deteriorated until he was using a wheelchair full-time at age 29.\n\nCrewe was married three times; in 1956, to Martha Sharp, by whom he had a son and a daughter, in 1961, to Angela Huth, by whom he had a son and a daughter, and in 1970, to Sue Cavendish, by whom he had a son and a daughter.\n\nCrewe appeared as a \"castaway\" on the BBC Radio programme \"Desert Island Discs\" twice, on 21 January 1984, and on 16 June 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "47852942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47852942", "title": "Steve DeAngelo", "text": "Steve DeAngelo\n\nSteve DeAngelo (born June 12, 1958 at 4:20 PM), is a cannabis rights activist and advocate for cannabis reform in the United States. He is the co-founder and Executive director of Harborside, a cannabis dispensary with stores in Oakland and San Jose, California, Steep Hill lab cannabis testing laboratory, and the president and co-founder of The Arcview Group. DeAngelo and Harborside were the subject of the Discovery Channel documentary series Weed Wars, and were also featured on the premiere episode of CNN's \"Inside Man\" with Morgan Spurlock. In June 2015, DeAngelo was awarded the High Times Lester Grinspoon Lifetime Achievement Award in recognition for his four decades of activism in the cannabis reform movement.\n\nSteve DeAngelo is a national cannabis activist, entrepreneur, educator and thought leader who has been on the forefront of cannabis legalization efforts for more than four decades. He is the co-founder and executive director of Oakland-based Harborside, which he established with his life partner, Yolanda Felix, in 2006 and has since grown to become the largest medical cannabis dispensary in the United States.\n\nHarborside has more than 300,000 registered patients and was among the first dispensaries in the country to treat children with Dravet Syndrome, a severe form of epilepsy. Rooted in DeAngelo’s belief that cannabis use should be wellness-centric, Harborside was one of the first cannabis businesses in the nation to support comprehensive cannabis education for seniors, veterans and families with severely ill children. Harborside continues to set the industry gold standard and is a leading advocate for diversity, environmental sustainability and economic justice in the cannabis sector. As part of DeAngelo’s push to foster environmentally sound agriculture practices practices, Harborside in 2014 launched its line of SunGrown cannabis products aimed at minimizing electricity consumption and promoting sustainable cannabis cultivation and production processes. In 2016, the holding company Flrish Inc, purchased an agricultural site in Salinas now called Harborside Farms, that grows cannabis plants for the Harborside dispensaries as well as others.\n\nDeAngelo’s path to becoming a world-renown cannabis business mogul began in his youth. Deeply influenced by his parents’ involvement in the Civil Rights movement, he formed his political identity at a young age. He protested the atrocities of the Vietnam War and joined the peace movement in the ’70s. At the age of 16, DeAngelo began leading the charge against cannabis prohibition. Starting in 1974, he became the lead organizer of the annual Yippie Fourth of July Smoke-In in Washington D.C., a position he held for a decade. And in 1998, he spearheaded efforts to legalize medical cannabis through Initiative 59 in his hometown of D.C.\n\nAlthough the ballot initiative was approved by 69 percent of voters and carried every precinct, Congress passed an amendment to block its implementation. Heartbroken, DeAngelo moved to California that year and has since become a distinguished member of the burgeoning cannabis business community in this country and around the globe.\n\nIn 2008 after establishing Harborside, DeAngelo co-founded the first commercial cannabis lab in the country, Steep Hill Labs, to support a socially responsible industry and ensure cannabis products comply with public safety standards. The company has grown to become a world leader in cannabis science and technology with extensive expertise in lab testing, remote testing, genetics, research and development, and intellectual property licensing. Steep Hill Labs has also positioned itself as a leading consultant to legislators and regulators around the world seeking to establish a unified set of industry best practices. With a keen understanding of the industry’s direction and future growth potential, DeAngelo decided in 2010 it was time to develop the next wave of American cannabis entrepreneurs. He co-founded The Arcview Group, a cannabis angel investment network and research firm dedicated to galvanizing progressive drug policy reform by empowering a responsible, profitable industry. The Arcview Angel Investor Network connects the brightest and most motivated entrepreneurs with vetted investors. The network includes more than 600 accredited investors, and has raised at least $150 million for 160 cannabis-related companies to date.\n\nDeAngelo was named one of the seven “most powerful people” in America’s cannabis industry by Fortune in 2016, a “gatekeeper” of the cannabis industry in 2015 by the International Business Times, and one of the most influential people in the cannabis industry in 2014 by Cannabis Business Executive. Dubbed &quot;the father of the legal cannabis industry& quote; by former San Francisco Mayor Willie Brown Jr., DeAngelo has been an industry pioneer and lifelong advocate for legalization. He has received many awards including a Lifetime Achievement Award in 2015 from High Times magazine.\n\nHis acclaimed book, “The Cannabis Manifesto: A New Paradigm for Wellness,” is a compelling account of DeAngelo’s personal journey with cannabis that outlines numerous solid arguments for legalization while presenting research-backed benefits of the plant. The book’s guiding statement: “Cannabis is not harmful, but prohibition is.” DeAngelo’s trailblazing activism and his creation of a model medical cannabis dispensary that sets best practices for an entire industry has made him one of the world’s foremost cannabis entrepreneurs and thought leaders.\n\nSteve DeAngelo began his career in activism in Washington, DC. After dropping out of school, he joined the Youth International Party where he organized July 4 smoke-ins to protest marijuana prohibition. After reading The Emperor Wears No Clothes, he partnered with author and activist Jack Herer on a national hemp tour to promote hemp and legal marijuana. DeAngelo launched the marketing, lobbying, and consulting firm CannaBe in California after co-founding Harborside Health Center in 2006.\n\nIn the last few years, Stephen DeAngelo and Harborside have been featured by national and international media outlets. Below is a partial list of some of the media highlights.\n\nSeptember 11, 2009 -Fortune Magazine (cover story)\n\nApril 23, 2010- The New York Times\n\nOctober 22, 2010- Washington Post Magazine (cover story)\n\nMarch 21, 2013 -Fortune Magazine (cover story)\n\nJune 15, 2013-International Business Times\n\nStar of “Weed Wars” on The Discovery Channel\n\nNBC Nightly News\n\nCNN – Morgan Spurlock’s “Inside Man” series\n\nCNN – Dr. Sanja Gupta’s “Weed” documentary\n\nPBS Peter Sagal’s “Constitution” series\n\nFox Business News\n\nMSNBC\n\nBloomberg News\n\nFrontline\n\nNational Geographic\n\nThe History Channel\n\nKRON – Ch. 4 San Francisco\n\nABC - KGO 7 San Francisco\n\nCBS – KPIX 5 San Francisco\n\nNBC - Bay Area 11 San Francisco\n\nFOX - KTVU Ch. 2 Oakland\n\nUnivision Ahora TV\n\nGermany’s NRD\n\nFrance 2\n\nMediaset Italia (Italy)\n\nScandinavia Financial Times\n\nLe Monde News (France)\n\nBBC News (UK)\n\nIndependent Television News (UK)\n\nAustralian Daily Standard (Australia)\n\nNHK World (Japan)\n\nGermany - Focus Magazine\n\nTV Globo (Brazil) \n\nFinland Documentary\n\nAl Jazeera America\n\nTV4 (Sweden)\n\nHigh Times Magazine\n\nThe Los Angeles Times (cover story)\n\nThe New York Times (cover story)\n\nThe Times of London\n\nThe Wall Street Journal\n\nRolling Stone\n\nFortune Magazine (cover story)\n\nForbes Magazine\n\nReuters\n\nThe Washington Post\n\nThe Washington Post Magazine (cover)\n\nAssociated Press\n\nBloomberg Businessweek\n\nMarketWatch, aka SmartMoney\n\nThe San Francisco Chronicle (front page)\n\nThe San Francisco Weekly\n\nEast Bay Times, formerly The Oakland Tribune\n\nThe San Jose Mercury News\n\nCalifornia Planning &amp; Development Report\n\nWashington Monthly\n\nMen’s Health Magazine\n\nVoice of America\n\nMarketplace, National Public Radio\n\nThe California Report, KQED News-National Public Radio\n\nDoctor Radio, New York University Langone Medical Center\n\nThe Kojo Nnamdi Show\n\nThe Diane Rehm Show\n\nKSFR - New Mexico PBS\n\nKQED Science, National Public Radio\n\nPaula Gloria Show\n\nThe Visionary Activist Show, KPFA Pacifica\n\nDrug Truth Network, KPFT Pacifica\n\nHuffington Post\n\nPolitico\n\nDCist\n\nThe Daily Beast\n"}
{"id": "17283281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17283281", "title": "Sthefany Brito", "text": "Sthefany Brito\n\nSthefany Fernandes de Brito (São Paulo, 19 June 1987), more commonly known as Sthefany Brito, is a Brazilian actress and the older sister of actor Kayky Brito.\n\nBrito was born Sthefany Fernandes de Brito in São Paulo, Brazil, on 19 June 1987. She had studied theatre since 1995, and she appeared in television adverts for toys and children's products.\n\nShe was cast in her first television role in 1999 in the Brazilian version of \"Chiquititas\", as Hannelore. She played Hannelore from 1999 to 2000. In 2001 she also landed a role in the telenovela \"Um Anjo Caiu do Céu\"and many others..\n\nIn 2001 Sthefany was hired to play an angel in the soap opera Dorinha. In 2002, she acted in O Clone as a Muslim girl . In 2003, she hosted the TV show TV Globinho.\n\nIn the theatre in Rio de Janeiro in 2002 she played a teenager in The Rebellious Beginning. The next year she and her brother Kayky Brito worked together in The Animal - The Natural Order of Things. In 2005, she acted in the Leo musical comedy as Bia. In 2006 she played a more mature role in the soap opera Páginas da Vida, where she played a character named Kelly. It was the first time she was featured in love scenes.\n\nHer last telenovela was O Rico e lazaro in 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31632630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31632630", "title": "Surkhi Parsa District", "text": "Surkhi Parsa District\n\nSurkh-o- Parsa sometimes spelt as Surkhi Parsa () is a district in Parwan Province, Afghanistan. The center of the district is called Lulinj and is a green valley around a river.\n\nThe district is composed of several separate valleys called Surkh Valley, Parsa Valley, Turkman Valley, Gandaab Valley, Paawaaz Valley as well as Lolenge and Do-aab. In Lolenge, there is historical shrine for pilgrimage known as the “Shah Daleer” or “The Brave King\". There is a large historical fort, locally known as “The Castle of Sayid Sarwar Khan\". There are two big rivers joining together in Lolenge near Tangi Azhdahaar. One of the rivers flows from the Turkman valley of the other one from the Surkh Valley in the center of the district. The river continues its journey through Lolenge, dividing it into two separate parts and joining another river at the end of Lolenge Valley in Do-Aab. This river which flows from Shekh Ali District moving towards Chardeh and Siaah Gerd district.\n\n"}
{"id": "2197566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2197566", "title": "Tsugumi Ohba", "text": "Tsugumi Ohba\n\nOhba's real identity is a closely guarded secret. They have cited Shotaro Ishinomori, Fujiko Fujio, and Fujio Akatsuka as manga creators by whom they are heavily inspired. As stated by the profile placed at the beginning of each \"Death Note\" manga, Ohba collects teacups and develops manga plots while holding their knees on a chair, similar to a habit of L, one of the main characters of the series. There is speculation that Tsugumi Ohba is a pen name of Hiroshi Gamo, pointing out that in \"Bakuman\" the main character's uncle was a one-hit wonder manga artist who worked on a gag super-hero manga, very similar to Gamo and \"Tottemo! Luckyman\" in all aspects, and also that the storyboards drawn by Ohba greatly resemble \"Tottemo! Luckyman\" in style.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14190232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14190232", "title": "Vaishali Desai", "text": "Vaishali Desai\n\nVaishali Desai is an Indian model and actor. She won the Indian title of Miss International. She debuted in the film \"Kal Kissne Dekha\".\n\nVaishali Desai is a Gujarati. Desai is the grandniece of legendary filmmaker Manmohan Desai.\n\nVaishali was brought up in Bangalore. Vaishali did her schooling in Sophia High School, Bangalore. She finished her graduation from Mount Carmel College, Bangalore. After her Miss India contest she shifted her base to Mumbai with her family for modeling and further studies.\n\nVaishali was doing ramp shows in Bangalore and was a top model. Her first show was when she was fourteen. Her major break and entry in the acting world was with her first commercial for Ponds Dreamflower Talc. She later was seen in ads like Tanishq, Compaq, Raymonds. Vaishali has, however, not changed her name to Vyshalee Desai as given in her debut film \"Kal Kissne Dekha\".\n\nShe was seen in a Compaq laptop ad and in the very famous Raymond ad. She is now being seen in another Tanishq ad with Nafisa Ali. She has done ads for products like Swarnam Oil and Power detergent. Vaishali was seen in an ad with Shah Rukh Khan for Sunfeast, and in a Dabur Gulabari ad.\n\nVaishali did her first video for Kumar Sanu for the song 'Aisa na dekho Mujhe.' She did three videos for the band Euphoria. She did \"Soneya\" with them which was followed by \"Mehfuz\" which was directed by Pradeep Sarkar.\n\nVaishali had participated in the Elite Look of the Year contest and was the second runner-up. Vaishali participated in the Pond's Femina Miss India contest and was the third runner-up becoming the Miss India International even though she wasn't in the five finalists. Vaishali then left in the same year for the Miss International contest in Tokyo but failed to win due to her having conjunctivitus.\n\nVaishali has done ramp shows for top Indian designers. She has participated in the Lakme Fashion week, Dhaka Fashion, and Sri Lankan Fashion week and done shows for L'Oreal, moschino, etc. She has done a lot of print and editorial work.\n"}
