{"id": "407732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=407732", "title": "Andres Serrano", "text": "Andres Serrano\n\nAndres Serrano (born August 15, 1950) is an American photographer and artist who has become famous through his photos of corpses and his use of feces and bodily fluids in his work, notably his controversial work \"Piss Christ\", a red-tinged photograph of a crucifix submerged in a glass container of what was purported to be the artist's own urine. He is also notable for creating the artwork for the heavy metal band Metallica's \"Load\" and \"Reload\" albums.\n\nSerrano was born in New York City on August 15, 1950. He is from a half Honduran, half Afro-Cuban background, and was raised a strict Roman Catholic. He studied from 1967 to 1969 at the Brooklyn Museum and Art School, yet is considered to be a self-taught photographer. In December 1980, he married artist Julie Ault. In a 2012 interview, Serrano references Ault as his \"first wife\" and Irina Movmyga as his current wife. Serrano has said that he is a Christian.\n\nHe worked as an assistant art director at an advertising firm, before creating his first works in 1983.\n\nHis work has been exhibited in diverse locations around the world including the Episcopal Cathedral of Saint John the Divine in New York City, \"World without end (2001)\", and a retrospective at the Barbican Arts Centre in London, \"Body and soul (2001)\".\n\nHis exhibitions have often inspired angry reactions. On October 5, 2007, his group of photographs called \"The History of Sex\" were on display and several were vandalized at an art gallery in Lund, Sweden by people who were believed to be part of a neo-Nazi group. On April 16, 2011, after two weeks of protests and a campaign of hate mail and abusive phone calls to an art gallery displaying his work, orchestrated by groups of French Catholic fundamentalists, approximately a thousand people marched through the streets of Avignon, to protest outside the gallery. On April 17, 2011, two of his works, \"Piss Christ\" and \"The Church\", were vandalized. The gallery director plans to reopen the museum with the damaged works on show \"so people can see what barbarians can do\".\nSerrano usually makes large prints of about . He has shot an array of subject matter including portraits of Klansmen, morgue photos, and pictures of burn victims. He went into the New York City Subway with lights and photographic background paper to portray the bedraggled homeless, as well as producing some rather tender but sometimes decidedly kinky portraits of couples. One of these last shows what Adrian Searle of \"The Guardian\" described as \"a young couple, she with a strap-on dildo, he with a mildly expectant expression.\" \n\nMany of Serrano's pictures involve bodily fluids in some way—depicting, for example, blood (sometimes menstrual blood), semen (for example, \"Blood and Semen II\" (1990)) or human female milk. Within this series are a number of works in which objects are submerged in bodily fluids. Most famous of these is \"Piss Christ\" (1987), a photograph of a plastic crucifix submerged in a glass of the artist's own urine. This caused great controversy when first exhibited. The work was sold for $277,000 in 1999, which was far beyond the estimated $20,000 – $30,000. Serrano, alongside other artists such as Robert Mapplethorpe, Barbara DeGenevieve, and Merry Alpern, became a figure whom Senator Jesse Helms, and Senator Alfonse D'Amato, as well as other cultural conservatives, attacked for producing offensive art while others, including \"The New York Times\", defended him in the name of artistic freedom. (See the American \"culture wars\" of the 1990s).\n\nSerrano's series \"Objects of Desire\", from the early 1990s, features close-ups of firearms, photographed at the Slidell, Louisiana home of artist Blake Nelson Boyd. Included is a shot, against a glowing orange background, down the barrel of a loaded .45 revolver (belonging to Boyd's grandfather) that was used by Jonas Mekas for the cover of the April–May–June 2007 Anthology Film Archives catalog.\n\nCritical reception of Serrano's work has been mixed. In a 1989 \"New York Times\" review, critic Michael Brenson responded to Serrano's series of Cibachrome photographs of iconic objects submerged in bodily fluids: \"You cannot consider the content of Mr. Serrano's work without considering his attitude toward photography. It is the photograph that breaks through convention, that makes the search possible and that enables the artist to sort out what he likes and does not like in religion and art. It is the photograph that becomes the vessel of transformation and revelation. The photograph then becomes an icon that, for Mr. Serrano, replaces the false icons in his work. The photograph is clean and purified, the reliquary or shrine in which he clearly believes that the word about the body can be stored and spread.\" Reviewing later work in 2001, \"Guardian\" art critic Adrian Searle was not impressed: he found that Serrano's photos were \"far more about being lurid than anything else... In the end, the show is all surface, and looking for hidden depths does no good.\" Continuing his use of biological matter, more recent work of Serrano's uses feces as a medium.\n\nSerrano's work \"Blood and Semen III\" is used as the cover of heavy metal band Metallica's album \"Load\", while \"Piss and Blood\" is used on \"Reload\". Serrano also directed a video for industrial metal group Godflesh, \"Crush My Soul\".\n\nIn 2008, Serrano's piece \"The Interpretation of Dreams (White Nigger)\" was selected to participate in The Renaissance Society's group exhibit, \"Black Is, Black Ain't\".\n\nSerrano adopted the alter ego \"Brutus Faust\" to create the full-length album \"Vengeance Is Mine\" in July 2010. The album contains covers of classic songs from the 1960s, and original compositions including four songs written by Serrano’s wife Irina Movmyga as well as one song co-written by Serrano, Thad DeBrock, and album producer Steve Messina of New York City–based band Blow Up Hollywood. Coinciding with the release of the album are the videos \"Goo Goo Gaga\", \"Love Letters\", and \"Bad Moon Rising\". \"Goo Goo Gaga\" consists mostly of black-and-white footage from the 1940s, which makes parallels between the Depression and the present day, with the images of \"Brutus\" shot by Francesco Carrozzini. \"Love Letters\" is footage taken from cult director Joe Sarno’s \"Flesh and Lace\". \"Bad Moon Rising\" consists entirely of footage Serrano compiled from several short films by John Santerineross. All of these short films were edited by Vincent V.\n\nIn 2013, Serrano made a work of art called \"Sign of the Times\" by collecting 200 signs from homeless people in New York City, usually paying $20 for each sign. He described the work as \"a testimony to the homeless men and women who roam the streets in search of food and shelter. It's also a chronicle of the times we live in.\" Over the course of several months, Serrano engaged with over 85 homeless individuals in Manhattan and photographed them for a series called \"Residents of New York\", a site-specific public art exhibition on display from May 19 to June 15, 2014 at the West Fourth Street – Washington Square subway station, on LaGuardia Place (between West 3rd and Bleecker Streets), at Judson Memorial Church, and in phone booths and posters around the city. The installation was produced and developed by More Art, a nonprofit organization based in New York that is dedicated to the development of socially engaged public art projects. Serrano initially photographed homeless individuals in New York in 1990 for a series of studio-style portraits titled \"Nomads\". In \"Residents of New York\", he removed his signature studio elements, focusing instead on personal connectivity and interaction directly on the streets of New York City, where the homeless live.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33821555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33821555", "title": "Animation (journal)", "text": "Animation (journal)\n\nAnimation is a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal that covers the field of film and media studies, focusing on animations implications for other forms of media. The editor-in-chief is Suzanne Buchan (University for the Creative Arts). It was established in 2006 and is currently published by SAGE Publications.\n\n\"Animation\" is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "292598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292598", "title": "Appalachia", "text": "Appalachia\n\nAppalachia () is a cultural region in the Eastern United States that stretches from the Southern Tier of New York to northern Alabama and Georgia. While the Appalachian Mountains stretch from Belle Isle in Canada to Cheaha Mountain in Alabama, the cultural region of Appalachia typically refers only to the central and southern portions of the range, from the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia, southwesterly to the Great Smoky Mountains. As of the 2010 United States Census, the region was home to approximately 25 million people.\n\nSince its recognition as a distinctive region in the late 19th century, Appalachia has been a source of enduring myths and distortions regarding the isolation, temperament, and behavior of its inhabitants. Early 20th century writers often engaged in yellow journalism focused on sensationalistic aspects of the region's culture, such as moonshining and clan feuding, and often portrayed the region's inhabitants as uneducated and prone to impulsive acts of violence. Sociological studies in the 1960s and 1970s helped to re-examine and dispel these stereotypes.\n\nWhile endowed with abundant natural resources, Appalachia has long struggled and been associated with poverty. In the early 20th century, large-scale logging and coal mining firms brought wage-paying jobs and modern amenities to Appalachia, but by the 1960s the region had failed to capitalize on any long-term benefits from these two industries. Beginning in the 1930s, the federal government sought to alleviate poverty in the Appalachian region with a series of New Deal initiatives, such as the construction of dams to provide cheap electricity and the implementation of better farming practices. On March 9, 1965, the Appalachian Regional Commission was created to further alleviate poverty in the region, mainly by diversifying the region's economy and helping to provide better health care and educational opportunities to the region's inhabitants. By 1990, Appalachia had largely joined the economic mainstream, but still lagged behind the rest of the nation in most economic indicators.\n\nSince Appalachia lacks definite physiographical or topographical boundaries, there has been some disagreement over what exactly the region encompasses. The most commonly used modern definition of Appalachia is the one initially defined by the Appalachian Regional Commission in 1965 and expanded over subsequent decades. The region defined by the Commission currently includes 420 counties and eight independent cities in 13 states, including all of West Virginia, 14 counties in New York, 52 in Pennsylvania, 32 in Ohio, 3 in Maryland, 54 in Kentucky, 25 counties and 8 cities in Virginia, 29 in North Carolina, 52 in Tennessee, 6 in South Carolina, 37 in Georgia, 37 in Alabama, and 24 in Mississippi. When the Commission was established, counties were added based on economic need, however, rather than any cultural parameters.\n\nThe first major attempt to map Appalachia as a distinctive cultural region came in the 1890s with the efforts of Berea College president William Goodell Frost, whose \"Appalachian America\" included 194 counties in 8 states. In 1921, John C. Campbell published \"The Southern Highlander and His Homeland\" in which he modified Frost's map to include 254 counties in 9 states. A landmark survey of the region in the following decade by the United States Department of Agriculture defined the region as consisting of 206 counties in 6 states. In 1984, Karl Raitz and Richard Ulack expanded the ARC's definition to include 445 counties in 13 states, although they removed all counties in Mississippi and added two in New Jersey. Historian John Alexander Williams, in his 2002 book \"Appalachia: A History\", distinguished between a \"core\" Appalachian region consisting of 164 counties in West Virginia, Kentucky, Virginia, Tennessee, North Carolina, and Georgia, and a greater region defined by the ARC. In the \"Encyclopedia of Appalachia\" (2006), Appalachian State University historian Howard Dorgan suggested the term \"Old Appalachia\" for the region's cultural boundaries, noting an academic tendency to ignore the southwestern and northeastern extremes of the ARC's pragmatic definition.\n\nWhile exploring inland along the northern coast of Florida in 1528, the members of the Narváez expedition, including Álvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca, found a Native American village near present-day Tallahassee, Florida, whose name they transcribed as \"Apalchen\" or \"Apalachen\" (). The name was soon altered by the Spanish to Apalachee and used as a name for the tribe and region spreading well inland to the north. Pánfilo de Narváez's expedition first entered Apalachee territory on June 15, 1528, and applied the name. Now spelled \"Appalachian\", it is the fourth oldest surviving European place-name in the U.S. After the de Soto expedition in 1540, Spanish cartographers began to apply the name of the tribe to the mountains themselves. The first cartographic appearance of \"Apalchen\" is on Diego Gutiérrez' map of 1562; the first use for the mountain range is the map of Jacques le Moyne de Morgues in 1565. Le Moyne was also the first European to apply \"Apalachen\" specifically to a mountain range as opposed to a village, native tribe, or a southeastern region of North America.\n\nThe name was not commonly used for the whole mountain range until the late 19th century. A competing and often more popular name was the \"Allegheny Mountains\", \"Alleghenies\", and even \"Alleghania.\" In the early 19th century, Washington Irving proposed renaming the United States either \"Appalachia\" or \"Alleghania\".\n\nIn northern U.S. dialects, the mountains are pronounced or . The cultural region of Appalachia is pronounced , also , all with a third syllable like \"lay\". In southern U.S. dialects, the mountains are called the , and the cultural region of Appalachia is pronounced , both with a third syllable like the \"la\" in \"latch\". This pronunciation is favored in the \"core\" region in central and southern parts of the Appalachian range. The occasional use of the \"sh\" sound for the \"ch\" in the last syllable in northern dialects was popularized by Appalachian Trail organizations in New England in the early 20th century.\n\nNative American hunter-gatherers first arrived in what is now Appalachia over 16,000 years ago. The earliest discovered site is the Meadowcroft Rockshelter in Washington County, Pennsylvania, which some scientists claim is pre-Clovis culture. Several other Archaic period (8000–1000 BC) archaeological sites have been identified in the region, such as the St. Albans site in West Virginia and the Icehouse Bottom site in Tennessee. In the 16th century, the de Soto and Juan Pardo expeditions explored the mountains of South Carolina, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Georgia, and encountered complex agrarian societies consisting of Muskogean-speaking inhabitants. De Soto indicated that much of the region west of the mountains was part of the domain of Coosa, a paramount chiefdom centered around a village complex in northern Georgia. By the time English explorers arrived in Appalachia in the late 17th century, the central part of the region was controlled by Algonquian tribes (namely the Shawnee) and the southern part of the region was controlled by the Cherokee. The French based in modern-day Quebec also made inroads into the northern areas of the region in modern-day New York state and Pennsylvania. By the mid 18th century the French had outposts such as Fort Duquesne and Fort Le Boeuf controlling the access points of the Allegheny River valley and upper Ohio valley after exploration by Celeron de Bienville.\n\nEuropean migration into Appalachia began in the 18th century. As lands in eastern Pennsylvania, the Tidewater region of Virginia and the Carolinas filled up, immigrants began pushing further and further westward into the Appalachian Mountains. A relatively large proportion of the early backcountry immigrants were Ulster Scots—later known as \"Scotch-Irish\"— who were seeking cheaper land and freedom from Quaker leaders, many of whom considered the Scotch-Irish \"savages\". Others included Germans from the Palatinate region and English settlers from the Anglo-Scottish border country. Between 1730 and 1763, immigrants trickled into western Pennsylvania, the Shenandoah Valley area of Virginia, and western Maryland. Thomas Walker's discovery of Cumberland Gap in 1750 and the end of the French and Indian War in 1763 lured settlers deeper into the mountains, namely to upper east Tennessee, northwestern North Carolina, upstate South Carolina, and central Kentucky. Between 1790 and 1840, a series of treaties with the Cherokee and other Native American tribes opened up lands in north Georgia, north Alabama, the Tennessee Valley, the Cumberland Plateau regions, and the Great Smoky Mountains along what is now the Tennessee-North Carolina border. The last of these treaties culminated in the removal of the bulk of the Cherokee population (as well as Choctaw, Chickasaw and others) from the region via the Trail of Tears from 1831 until 1838.\n\nAppalachian frontiersmen have long been romanticized for their ruggedness and self-sufficiency. A typical depiction of an Appalachian pioneer involves a hunter wearing a coonskin cap and buckskin clothing, and sporting a long rifle and shoulder-strapped powder horn. Perhaps no single figure symbolizes the Appalachian pioneer more than Daniel Boone (1734–1820), a long hunter and surveyor instrumental in the early settlement of Kentucky and Tennessee. Like Boone, Appalachian pioneers moved into areas largely separated from \"civilization\" by high mountain ridges, and had to fend for themselves against the elements. As many of these early settlers were living on Native American lands, attacks from Native American tribes were a continuous threat until the 19th century.\n\nAs early as the 18th century, Appalachia (then known simply as the \"backcountry\") began to distinguish itself from its wealthier lowland and coastal neighbors to the east. Frontiersmen often bickered with lowland and tidewater \"elites\" over taxes, sometimes to the point of armed revolts such as the Regulator Movement (1767–1771) in North Carolina. In 1778, at the height of the American Revolution, backwoodsmen from Pennsylvania, Virginia, and what is now Kentucky took part in George Rogers Clark's Illinois campaign. Two years later, a group of Appalachian frontiersmen known as the Overmountain Men routed British forces at the Battle of Kings Mountain after rejecting a call by the British to disarm. After the war, residents throughout the Appalachian backcountry—especially the Monongahela region in western Pennsylvania, and antebellum northwestern Virginia (now the north-central part of West Virginia) — refused to pay a tax placed on whiskey by the new American government, leading to what became known as the Whiskey Rebellion. The resulting tighter Federal controls in the Monongahela valley resulted in many whiskey/bourbon makers migrating via the Ohio River to Kentucky and Tennessee where the industry could flourish.\n\nIn the early 19th century, the rift between the yeoman farmers of Appalachia and their wealthier lowland counterparts continued to grow, especially as the latter dominated most state legislatures. People in Appalachia began to feel slighted over what they considered unfair taxation methods and lack of state funding for improvements (especially for roads). In the northern half of the region, the lowland \"elites\" consisted largely of industrial and business interests, whereas in the parts of the region south of the Mason–Dixon line, the lowland elites consisted of large-scale land-owning planters. The Whig Party, formed in the 1830s, drew widespread support from disaffected Appalachians.\n\nTensions between the mountain counties and state governments sometimes reached the point of mountain counties threatening to break off and form separate states. In 1832, bickering between western Virginia and eastern Virginia over the state's constitution led to calls on both sides for the state's separation into two states. In 1841, Tennessee state senator (and later U.S. president) Andrew Johnson introduced legislation in the Tennessee Senate calling for the creation of a separate state in East Tennessee. The proposed state would have been known as \"Frankland\" and would have invited like-minded mountain counties in Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia, and Alabama to join it.\n\nBy 1860, the Whig Party had disintegrated. Sentiments in northern Appalachia had shifted to the pro-abolitionist Republican Party. In southern Appalachia, abolitionists still constituted a radical minority, although several smaller opposition parties (most of which were both pro-Union and pro-slavery) were formed to oppose the planter-dominated Southern Democrats. As states in the southern United States moved toward secession, a majority of Southern Appalachians still supported the Union. In 1861, a Minnesota newspaper identified 161 counties in Southern Appalachia—which the paper called \"Alleghenia\"—where Union support remained strong, and which might provide crucial support for the defeat of the Confederacy. However, many of these Unionists—especially in the mountain areas of North Carolina, Georgia, and Alabama—were \"conditional\" Unionists in that they opposed secession, but also opposed violence to prevent secession, and thus when their respective state legislatures voted to secede, their support shifted to the Confederacy. Kentucky sought to remain neutral at the outset of the conflict, opting not to supply troops to either side. After Virginia voted to secede, several mountain counties in northwestern Virginia rejected the ordinance and with the help of the Union Army established a separate state, admitted to the Union as West Virginia in 1863. However, half the counties included in the new state, comprising two-thirds of its territory, were secessionist and pro-Confederate.\n\nThis caused great difficulty for the new Unionist state government in Wheeling, both during and after the war. A similar effort occurred in East Tennessee, but the initiative failed after Tennessee's governor ordered the Confederate Army to occupy the region, forcing East Tennessee's Unionists to flee to the north or go into hiding. The one exception was the so-called Free and Independent State of Scott.\n\nBoth central and southern Appalachia suffered tremendous violence and turmoil during the Civil War. While there were two major theaters of operation in the region—namely the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia (and present-day West Virginia) and the Chattanooga area along the Tennessee-Georgia border—much of the violence was caused by bushwhackers and guerrilla war. The northernmost battles of the entire war were fought in Appalachia with the Battle of Buffington Island and the Battle of Salineville resulting from Morgan's Raid. Large numbers of livestock were killed (grazing was an important part of Appalachia's economy), and numerous farms were destroyed, pillaged, or neglected. The actions of both Union and Confederate armies left many inhabitants in the region resentful of government authority and suspicious of outsiders for decades after the war. \n\nAfter the war, northern parts of Appalachia experienced an economic boom, while economies in the southern parts of the region stagnated, especially as Southern Democrats regained control of their respective state legislatures at the end of Reconstruction. Pittsburgh as well as Knoxville grew into major industrial centers, especially regarding iron and steel production. By 1900, the Chattanooga area and north Georgia and northern Alabama had experienced similar changes due to manufacturing booms in Atlanta and Birmingham at the edge of the Appalachian region. Railroad construction between the 1880s and early 20th century gave the greater nation access to the vast coalfields in central Appalachia, making the economy in that part of the region practically synonymous with coal mining. As the nationwide demand for lumber skyrocketed, lumber firms turned to the virgin forests of southern Appalachia, using sawmill and logging railroad innovations to reach remote timber stands. The Tri-Cities area of Tennessee and Virginia and the Kanawha Valley of West Virginia became major petrochemical production centers.\n\nThe late 19th and early 20th centuries also saw the development of various regional stereotypes. Attempts by President Rutherford B. Hayes to enforce the whiskey tax in the late 1870s led to an explosion in violence between Appalachian \"moonshiners\" and federal \"revenuers\" that lasted through the Prohibition period in the 1920s. The breakdown of authority and law enforcement during the Civil War may have contributed to an increase in clan feuding, which by the 1880s was reported to be a problem across most of Kentucky's Cumberland region as well as Carter County in Tennessee, Carroll County in Virginia, and Mingo and Logan counties in West Virginia. Regional writers from this period such as Mary Noailles Murfree and Horace Kephart liked to focus on such sensational aspects of mountain culture, leading readers outside the region to believe they were more widespread than in reality. In an 1899 article in \"The Atlantic\", Berea College president William G. Frost attempted to redefine the inhabitants of Appalachia as \"noble mountaineers\"—relics of the nation's pioneer period whose isolation had left them unaffected by modern times.\n\nToday, residents of Appalachia are viewed by many Americans as uneducated and unrefined, resulting in culture-based stereotyping and discrimination in many areas, including employment and housing. Such discrimination has prompted some to seek redress under prevailing federal and state civil rights laws.\n\nAppalachia, and especially Kentucky, became nationally known for its violent feuds, especially in the remote mountain districts. They pitted the men in extended clans against each other for decades, often using assassination and arson as weapons, along with ambushes, gunfights, and pre-arranged shootouts. The infamous Hatfield-McCoy Feud of the 19th century was the best known of these family feuds. Some of the feuds were continuations of violent local Civil War episodes. Journalists often wrote about the violence, using stereotypes that \"city folks\" had developed about Appalachia; they interpreted the feuds as the natural products of profound ignorance, poverty, and isolation, and perhaps even inbreeding. In reality, the leading participants were typically well-to-do local elites with networks of clients who were fighting for local political power.\n\nLogging firms' rapid devastation of the forests of the Appalachians sparked a movement among conservationists to preserve what remained and allow the land to \"heal\". In 1911, Congress passed the Weeks Act, giving the federal government authority to create national forests east of the Mississippi River and control timber harvesting. Regional writers and business interests led a movement to create national parks in the eastern United States similar to Yosemite and Yellowstone in the west, culminating in the creation of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park in Tennessee and North Carolina, Shenandoah National Park in Virginia, Cumberland Gap National Historical Park in Kentucky, Virginia and Tennessee, and the Blue Ridge Parkway (connecting the two) in the 1930s. During the same period, New England forester Benton MacKaye led the movement to build the Appalachian Trail, stretching from Georgia to Maine.\n\nBy the 1950s, poor farming techniques and the loss of jobs to mechanization in the mining industry had left much of central and southern Appalachia poverty-stricken. The lack of jobs also led to widespread difficulties with outmigration. Beginning in the 1930s, federal agencies such as the Tennessee Valley Authority began investing in the Appalachian region. Sociologists such as James Brown and Cratis Williams and authors such as Harry Caudill and Michael Harrington brought attention to the region's plight in the 1960s, prompting Congress to create the Appalachian Regional Commission in 1965. The commission's efforts helped to stem the tide of outmigration and diversify the region's economies. Although there have been drastic improvements in the region's economic conditions since the commission's founding, the ARC still listed 82 counties as \"distressed\" in 2010, with nearly half of them (40) in Kentucky.\n\nThere are growing IT sectors in many parts of the region. Titan, the fastest supercomputer in the United States and third fastest in the world as of 2016, is currently housed at Oak Ridge National Laboratory near Knoxville, Tennessee.\n\nNotable cities within Appalachia include:\n\nAn estimated 90% of Appalachia's earliest European settlers originated from the Anglo-Scottish border country—namely the English counties of Cumberland, Westmorland, Northumberland, County Durham, Lancashire and Yorkshire, and the Lowland Scottish counties of Ayrshire, Dumfriesshire, Roxburghshire, Berwickshire and Wigtownshire. Most of these were from families who had been resettled in the Ulster Plantation in northern Ireland in the 17th century, but some came directly from the Anglo-Scottish border region. In America, these people are often grouped under the single name \"Scotch-Irish\" or \"Scots-Irish\". While various 20th century writers tried to associate Appalachia with Scottish highlanders, Highland Scots were a relatively insignificant percentage of the region's early European immigrants.\n\nAlthough Swedes and Finns formed only a tiny portion of the Appalachian settlers it was Swedish and Finnish settlers of New Sweden who brought the northern European woodsman skills such as log cabin construction which formed the basis of backwoods Appalachian material culture.\n\nGermans were a major pioneer group to migrate to Appalachia, settling mainly in western Pennsylvania and southwest Virginia. Smaller numbers of Germans were also among the initial wave of migrants to the southern mountains. In the 19th century, Welsh immigrants were brought into the region for their mining and metallurgical expertise, and by 1900 over 100,000 Welsh immigrants were living in western Pennsylvania alone. Thousands of German-speaking Swiss migrated to Appalachia in the second half of the 19th century, and their descendants remain in places such as East Bernstadt, Kentucky, and Gruetli-Laager, Tennessee. The coal mining and manufacturing boom in the late 19th and early 20th centuries brought large numbers of Italians and Eastern Europeans to Appalachia, although most of these families left the region when the Great Depression shattered the economy in the 1930s. African Americans have been present in the region since the 18th century, and currently make up 8% of the ARC-designated region, mostly concentrated in urban areas and former mining and manufacturing towns. Native Americans, the region's original inhabitants, are only a small percentage of the region's present population, their most notable concentration being the reservation of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians in North Carolina. The Melungeons, a group of mixed African, European, and Native American ancestry, are scattered across northeastern Tennessee, eastern Kentucky, and southwestern Virginia.\n\nChristianity has long been the main religion in Appalachia. Religion in Appalachia is characterized by a sense of independence and a distrust of religious hierarchies, both rooted in the evangelical tendencies of the region's pioneers, many of whom had been influenced by the \"New Light\" movement in England. Many of the denominations brought from Europe underwent modifications or factioning during the Second Great Awakening (especially the holiness movement) in the early 19th century. A number of 18th and 19th-century religious traditions are still practiced in parts of Appalachia, including natural water (or \"creek\") baptism, rhythmically chanted preaching, congregational shouting, snake handling, and foot washing. While most church-goers in Appalachia attend fairly well organized churches affiliated with regional or national bodies, small unaffiliated congregations are not uncommon in rural mountain areas.\n\nProtestantism is the most dominant denomination in Appalachia, although there is a significant Roman Catholic presence in the northern half of the region and in urban areas, like Pittsburgh and Scranton. The region's early Lowland and Ulster Scot immigrants brought Presbyterianism to Appalachia, eventually organizing into bodies such as the Cumberland Presbyterian Church. English Baptists—most of whom had been influenced by the Separate Baptist and Regular Baptist movements—were also common on the Appalachian frontier, and today are represented in the region by groups such as the Free Will Baptists, the Southern Baptists, Missionary Baptists, and \"old-time\" groups such as the United Baptists and Primitive Baptists. Circuit riders such as Francis Asbury helped spread Methodism to Appalachia in the early 19th century, and today 9.2% of the region's population is Methodist, represented by such bodies as the United Methodist Church, the Free Methodist Church, and the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church. Pentecostal movements within the region include the Church of God (based in Cleveland, Tennessee) and the Assemblies of God. Scattered Mennonite colonies exist throughout the region.\n\nThe Appalachian dialect is a dialect of Midland American English known as the Southern Midland dialect, and is spoken primarily in central and southern Appalachia. The Northern Midland dialect is spoken in the northern parts of the region, while Pittsburgh English (more commonly known as \"Pittsburghese\") is strongly influenced by Appalachian dialect. The Southern Appalachian dialect is considered part of the Southern American dialect, although the two are distinguished by the rhotic nature of the Appalachian dialect. Early 20th century writers believed the Appalachian dialect to be a surviving relic of Old World Scottish or Elizabethan dialects. Recent research suggests, however, that while the dialect has a stronger Scottish influence than other American dialects, most of its distinguishing characteristics are American in origin.\n\nFor much of the region's history, education in Appalachia has lagged behind the rest of the nation due in part to struggles with funding from respective state governments and an agrarian-oriented population that often failed to see a practical need for formal education. Early education in the region evolved from teaching Christian morality and learning to read the Bible into small, one-room schoolhouses that convened in months when children were not needed to help with farm work. After the Civil War, mandatory education laws and state assistance helped larger communities begin to establish graded schools and high schools. During the same period, many of the region's institutions of higher education were established or greatly expanded. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, service organizations such as Pi Beta Phi and various religious organizations established settlement schools and mission schools in the region's more rural areas.\n\nIn the 20th century, national trends began to have more of an effect on education in Appalachia, sometimes clashing with the region's traditional values. The Scopes Trial—the nation's most publicized debate over the teaching of the theory of evolution—took place in Dayton, Tennessee, in southern Appalachia in 1925. In spite of consolidation and centralization, schools in Appalachia struggled to keep up with federal and state demands into the 21st century. Since 2001, a number of the region's public schools were threatened with loss of funding due to difficulties fulfilling the demands of No Child Left Behind.\n\nAppalachian music is one of the best-known manifestations of Appalachian culture. Traditional Appalachian music is derived primarily from the English and Scottish ballad tradition and Irish and Scottish fiddle music. African-American blues musicians played a significant role in developing the instrumental aspects of Appalachian music, most notably with the introduction of the five-stringed banjo—one of the region's iconic symbols—in the late 18th century. Another instrument known in Appalachian culture was the Appalachian dulcimer which, in a practical way, is a guitar-shaped instrument laid on its side with a flat bottom and the strings plucked in a manner to make alternating notes.\n\nIn the years following World War I, British folklorist Cecil Sharp brought attention to Southern Appalachia when he noted that its inhabitants still sang hundreds of English and Scottish ballads that had been passed down to them from their ancestors. Commercial recordings of Appalachian musicians in the 1920s would have a significant impact on the development of country music, bluegrass, and old-time music. Appalachian music saw a resurgence in popularity during the American folk music revival of the 1960s, when musicologists such as Mike Seeger, John Cohen, and Ralph Rinzler traveled to remote parts of the region in search of musicians unaffected by modern music. Today, dozens of annual music festivals held throughout the region preserve the Appalachian music tradition.\n\nEarly Appalachian literature typically centered on the observations of people from outside the region, such as Henry Timberlake's \"Memoirs\" (1765) and Thomas Jefferson's \"Notes on the State of Virginia\" (1784), although there are notable exceptions, including Davy Crockett's \"A Narrative of the Life of Davy Crockett\" (1834). Travellers' accounts published in 19th-century magazines gave rise to Appalachian local color, which reached its height with George Washington Harris's Sut Lovingood character of the 1860s and native novelists such as Mary Noailles Murfree. Works such as Rebecca Harding Davis's \"Life in the Iron Mills\" (1861), Emma Bell Miles' \"The Spirit of the Mountains\" (1905), and Horace Kephart's \"Our Southern Highlanders\" (1913) marked a shift in the region's literature from local color to realism. The transition from an agrarian society to an industrial society and its effects on Appalachia are captured in works such as Olive Tilford Dargan's \"Call Home to the Heart\" (1932), Agnes Sligh Turnbull's \"The Rolling Years\" (1936), James Still's \"The River of Earth\" (1940), Harriette Simpson Arnow's \"The Dollmaker\" (1954), and Harry Caudill's \"Night Comes to the Cumberlands\" (1962). In the 1970s and 1980s, the rise of authors like Breece D'J Pancake, Dorothy Allison, and Lisa Alther brought greater literary diversity to the region.\n\nAlong with the above-mentioned, some of Appalachia's best known writers include James Agee (\"A Death in the Family\"), Anne W. Armstrong (\"This Day and Time\"), Wendell Berry (\"Hannah Coulter\", \"The Unforeseen Wilderness: An Essay on Kentucky's Red River Gorge\", \"Selected Poems of Wendell Berry\"), Jesse Stuart (\"Taps for Private Tussie\", \"The Thread That Runs So True\"), Denise Giardina (\"The Unquiet Earth\", \"Storming Heaven\"), Lee Smith (\"Fair and Tender Ladies\", \"On Agate Hill\"), Silas House (\"Clay's Quilt\", \"A Parchment of Leaves\"), Wilma Dykeman (\"The Far Family\", \"The Tall Woman\"), Keith Maillard (\"Alex Driving South\", \"Light in the Company of Women\", \"Hazard Zones\", \"Gloria\", \"Running\", \"Morgantown\", \"Lyndon Johnson and the Majorettes\", \"Looking Good\") Maurice Manning (\"Bucolics\", \"A Companion for Owls\"), Anne Shelby (\"Appalachian Studies\", \"We Keep a Store\"), George Ella Lyon (\"Borrowed Children\", \"Don't You Remember?\"), Pamela Duncan (\"Moon Women\", \"The Big Beautiful\"), David Joy (\"Where All Light Tends to Go,\" \"The Weight of This World\"), Chris Offutt (\"No Heroes\", \"The Good Brother\"), Charles Frazier (\"Cold Mountain\", \"Thirteen Moons\"), Sharyn McCrumb (\"The Hangman's Beautiful Daughter\"), Robert Morgan (\"Gap Creek\"), Jim Wayne Miller (\"The Brier Poems\"), Gurney Norman (\"Divine Right's Trip\", \"Kinfolks\"), Ron Rash (\"Serena\"), Elizabeth Madox Roberts (\"The Great Meadow, \"The Time of Man\"), Thomas Wolfe (\"Look Homeward Angel\", \"You Can't Go Home Again\"), Rachel Carson (\"The Sea Around Us\", \"Silent Spring\"; Presidential Medal of Freedom), and Jeannette Walls (\"The Glass Castle\").\n\nAppalachian literature crosses with the larger genre of Southern literature. Internationally renowned writers such as William Faulkner and Cormac McCarthy have made notable contributions to the American canon with tales set within Appalachia. McCarthy's \"Suttree\" (1979) is an intense vision of the squalidness and brutality of life along the Tennessee River, in the heart of Appalachia. Other McCarthy novels set in Appalachia include \"The Orchard Keeper\" (1968) and \"Child of God\" (1973). Appalachia also serves as the origin point for the kid, the protagonist of McCarthy's Western masterpiece \"Blood Meridian\". Faulkner's hometown of Oxford, Mississippi, is on the borderlands of what is considered Appalachia, but his fictional Yoknapatawpha should be considered part of the region. Almost all of the fiction which earned him the Nobel Prize is set there, including \"Light in August\" and \"Absalom, Absalom\".\n\nAppalachian folklore has a strong mixture of European, Native American (especially Cherokee), and Biblical influences. The Cherokee taught the region's early European pioneers how to plant and cultivate crops such as corn and squash and how to find edible plants such as ramps. The Cherokee also passed along their knowledge of the medicinal properties of hundreds of native herbs and roots, and how to prepare tonics from such plants. Before the introduction of modern agricultural techniques in the region in the 1930s and 1940s, many Appalachian farmers followed the Biblical tradition of planting by \"the signs\", such as the phases of the moon, or when certain weather conditions occurred.\n\nCherokee folklore continues to influence storytelling in the Appalachians, including depictions and characteristics of regional animals. As told by Eastern Band Cherokee and western North Carolina storyteller Jerry Wolfe, these creatures include the chipmunk, also known as \"seven stripes\" from an angry bear scratching him down the back—four claw marks and the spaces in between making seven—and the copperhead who sneaks and thieves his way into becoming venomous.\n\nAppalachian folk tales are rooted in English, Scottish, and Irish fairy tales, as well as regional heroic figures and events. Jack tales, which tend to revolve around the exploits of a simple-but-dedicated figure named \"Jack\", are popular at story-telling festivals. Other stories involve wild animals, such as hunting tales. In the industrial areas of western Pennsylvania and northern West Virginia the composite Joe Magarac steelworker story has been handed down. Regional folk heroes such as the railroad worker John Henry and frontiersmen Davy Crockett, Mike Fink and Johnny Appleseed are examples of real-life figures that evolved into popular folk tale subjects. Murder stories, such as Omie Wise and John Hardy, are popular subjects for Appalachian ballads. Ghost stories, or \"haint tales\" in regional English, are a common feature of southern oral and literary tradition. Ghost stories native to the region include the story of the Greenbrier Ghost, which is rooted in a Greenbrier County, West Virginia, murder.\n\nSince the 1960s the Point Pleasant, West Virginia, legend of Mothman has originated and been explored in popular culture including the 2002 film \"The Mothman Prophecies\" loosely retelling the original tale.\n\nUrban Appalachians are people from Appalachia who are living in metropolitan areas outside the Appalachian region. In the decades following the Great Depression and World War II, many Appalachian residents moved to industrial cities in the north and west in a migration that became known as the \"Hillbilly Highway\". Mechanization of coal mining during the 1950s and 1960s was the major source of unemployment in central Appalachia. Many migration streams covered relatively short distances, with West Virginians moving to Cleveland and other cities in eastern and central Ohio, and eastern Kentuckians moving to Cincinnati and southwest Ohio in search of jobs. More distant cities like Detroit and Chicago attracted migrants from many states. Enclaves of Appalachian culture can still be found in some of these communities.\n\nIn the 1940s through the 1960s, Wheeling, West Virginia, became a cultural center of the region because it had a clear-channel AM radio station, WWVA, which could be heard throughout the entirety of the eastern United States at night. Although Pittsburgh's KDKA was a 50 kilowatt clear channel station that dated back to the early 1920s (as well as spanning all the East Coast in signal strength), WWVA prided itself on rural and farm programming that appealed to a wider audience in the rural region. Cincinnati's WLW also was relied on by many in the central and northern areas of Appalachia.\n\nIn the southern part of the region, WSB-AM Atlanta and WSM-AM Nashville, flagship of the \"Grand Ole Opry\", were major stations for the region's population during the 20th century, and remain strong in the sub-region.\n\nAppalachia as an academic interest was the product of a critical scholarship that emerged across the disciplines in the 1960s and 1970s. With a renewed interest in issues of power, scholars could not dismiss the social inequity, class conflict, and environmental destruction encountered by America's so-called \"hillbillies\". Appalachia's emergence in academia is a result of the intersection between social conditions and critical academic interests, and has resulted in the development of many Appalachian studies programs in colleges and universities across the region, as well as in the Appalachian Studies Association.\n\nThe economy of Appalachia traditionally rested on agriculture, mining, timber, and in the cities, manufacturing. Since the late 20th century, tourism and second-home developments have assumed an increasingly major role.\n\nWhile the climate of the Appalachian region is suitable for agriculture, the region's hilly terrain greatly limits the size of the average farm, a problem exacerbated by population growth in the latter half of the 19th century. Subsistence farming was the backbone of the Appalachian economy throughout much of the 19th century, and while economies in places such as western Pennsylvania, the Great Valley of Virginia, and the upper Tennessee Valley in east Tennessee, transitioned to a large-scale farming or manufacturing base around the time of the Civil War, subsistence farming remained an important part of the region's economy until the 1950s. In the early 20th century, Appalachian farmers were struggling to mechanize, and abusive farming practices had over the years left much of the already-limited farmland badly eroded. Various federal entities intervened in the 1930s to restore damaged areas and introduce less-harmful farming techniques. In recent decades, the concept of sustainable agriculture has been applied to the region's small farms, with some success. Nevertheless, the number of farms in the Appalachian region continues to dwindle, plunging from 354,748 farms on in 1969 to 230,050 farms on in 1997.\n\nEarly Appalachian farmers grew both crops introduced from their native Europe as well as crops native to North America (such as corn and squash). Tobacco has long been an important cash crop in Southern Appalachia, especially since the land is ill-suited for cash crops such as cotton. Apples have been grown in the region since the late 18th century, their cultivation being aided by the presence of thermal belts in the region's mountain valleys. Hogs, which could free range in the region's abundant forests, often on chestnuts, were the most popular livestock among early Appalachian farmers. The American chestnut was also an important human food source until the chestnut blight struck in the 20th century. The early settlers also brought cattle and sheep to the region, which they would typically graze in highland meadows known as balds during the growing season when bottomlands were needed for crops. Cattle, mainly the Hereford, Angus, and Charolais breeds, are now the region's chief livestock.\n\nThe mountains and valleys of Appalachia once contained what seemed to be an inexhaustible supply of timber. The poor roads, lack of railroads, and general inaccessibility of the region, however, prevented large-scale logging in most of the region throughout much of the 19th century. While logging firms were established in the Carolinas and the Kentucky River valley before the Civil War, most major firms preferred to harvest the more accessible timber stands in the Midwestern and Northeastern parts of the country. By the 1880s, these stands had been exhausted, and a spike in the demand for lumber forced logging firms to seek out the virgin forests of Appalachia. The first major logging ventures in Appalachia transported logs using mule teams or rivers, the latter method sometimes employing splash dams. In the 1890s, innovations such as the Shay locomotive, the steam-powered loader, and the steam-powered skidder allowed massive harvesting of the most remote forest sections.\n\nLogging in Appalachia reached its peak in the early 20th century, when firms such as the Ritter Lumber Company cut the virgin forests on an alarming scale, leading to the creation of national forests in 1911 and similar state entities to better manage the region's timber resources. Arguably the most successful logging firm in Appalachia was the Georgia Hardwood Lumber Company, established in 1927 and renamed Georgia-Pacific in 1948 when it expanded nationally. Although logging in Appalachia declined as the industry shifted focus to the Pacific Northwest in the 1950s, rising overseas demand in the 1980s brought a resurgence in Appalachian logging. In 1987, there were 4,810 lumber firms operating in the region. In the late 1990s, the Appalachian lumber industry was a multibillion-dollar industry, employing 50,000 people in Tennessee, 26,000 in Kentucky, and 12,000 in West Virginia alone. By 1999, 1.4 million acres were extinguished as a result of deforestation by natural resource industries. Pollution from mining processes and disruption of the land ensued numerous environmental issues. Removal of vegetation and other alterations in the land increased erosion and flooding of surrounding areas. Water quality and aquatic life were also affected.\n\nCoal mining is the industry most frequently associated with the region in outsiders' minds, due in part to the fact that the region once produced two-thirds of the nation's coal. At present, however, the mining industry employs just 2% of the Appalachian workforce. The region's vast coalfield covers between northern Pennsylvania and central Alabama, mostly along the Cumberland Plateau and Allegheny Plateau regions. Most mining activity has been concentrated in eastern Kentucky, southwestern Virginia, West Virginia, and western Pennsylvania, with smaller operations in western Maryland, Tennessee and Alabama. The Pittsburgh coal seam, which has produced 13 billion tons of coal since the early 19th century, has been called the world's most valuable mineral deposit. There are over 60 major coal seams in West Virginia, and over 80 in eastern Kentucky. Most of the coal mined is bituminous, although significant anthracite deposits exist on the fringe of the region in central Pennsylvania. About two-thirds of Appalachia's coal is produced by underground mining, the rest by surface mining. Mountaintop removal, a form of surface mining, is a highly controversial mining practice in central Appalachia due to its negative impacts on the environment and health of local residents.\n\nIn the late 19th century, the post-Civil War Industrial Revolution and the expansion of the nation's railroads brought a soaring demand for coal, and mining operations expanded rapidly across Appalachia. Hundreds of thousands of workers poured into the region from across the United States and from overseas, essentially overhauling the cultural makeup of eastern Kentucky, West Virginia, and western Pennsylvania. Mining corporations gained considerable influence in state and municipal governments, especially as they often owned the entire towns in which the miners lived. The mining industry was vulnerable to economic downturns, however, and booms and busts were frequent, with major booms occurring during World War I and II, and the worst bust occurring during the Great Depression. The Appalachian mining industry also saw some of the nation's bloodiest labor strife between the 1890s and the 1930s. Mining-related injuries and deaths were not uncommon, and ailments such as black lung disease afflicted miners throughout the 20th century. After World War II, innovations in mechanization (such as longwall mining) and competition from oil and natural gas led to a decline in the region's mining operations. Environmental restrictions, such as those placed on high-sulfur coal in the 1980s, brought further mine closures. While with annual earnings of $55,000, Appalachian miners make more than most other local workers, Appalachian coal mining employed just under 50,000 in 2004.\n\nCoal mining has made a comeback in some regions in the early 21st century because of the increased prominence of Consol Energy, based in Pittsburgh. The Quecreek Mine rescue in 2002 and continuing mine subsidence problems in abandoned coal mines in western Pennsylvania as well as the Sago Mine disaster and Upper Big Branch Mine disaster in West Virginia and other regions have also been highlighted in recent times.\n\nThe manufacturing industry in Appalachia is rooted primarily in the ironworks and steelworks of early Pittsburgh and Birmingham, and in the textile mills that sprang up in North Carolina's Piedmont region in the mid-19th century. Factory construction increased greatly after the Civil War, and the region experienced a manufacturing boom between 1890 and 1930. This economic shift led to a mass migration from small farms and rural areas to large urban centers, causing the populations of cities such as Birmingham, Knoxville, Tennessee, and Asheville, North Carolina, to swell exponentially. Manufacturing in the region suffered a setback during the Great Depression, but recovered during World War II and peaked in the 1950s and 1960s. However, difficulties paying retiree benefits, environmental struggles, and the signing of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in 1994 led to a decline in the region's manufacturing operations. Pittsburgh lost 44% of its factory jobs in the 1980s, and between 1970 and 2001, the number of apparel workers in the Appalachian region decreased from 250,000 to 83,000 and the number of textile workers decreased from 275,000 to 193,000.\n\nU.S. Steel, founded in Pittsburgh in 1901, was the world's first corporation with more than a billion dollars in initial capitalization. Another Pittsburgh company, Alcoa, helped establish the nation's aluminum industry in the early 20th century, and has had a significant impact on the economies of western Pennsylvania and east Tennessee. Union Carbide built the world's first petrochemical plant in Clendenin, West Virginia, in 1920, and in subsequent years the Kanawha Valley became known as the \"Chemical Capital of the World\". Eastman Chemical, also established in 1920, is Tennessee's largest single employer. Companies such as Champion Fibre and Bowater established large pulp operations in Canton, North Carolina, and Greenville, South Carolina, respectively, although the former was dogged by battles with environmentalists throughout the 20th century.\n\nOne of the region's oldest industries, tourism became a more important part of the Appalachian economy in the latter half of the 20th century as mining and manufacturing steadily declined. In 2000–2001, tourism in Appalachia accounted for nearly $30 billion and over 600,000 jobs. The mountain terrain—with its accompanying scenery and outdoor recreational opportunities—provide the region's primary attractions. The region is home to one of the world's most well-known hiking trails (the Appalachian Trail), the nation's most-visited national park (the Great Smoky Mountains National Park), and the nation's most visited national parkway (the Blue Ridge Parkway). The craft industry, including the teaching, selling, and display or demonstration of regional crafts, also accounts for an important part of the Appalachian economy, bringing (for example) over $100 million annually to the economy of western North Carolina and over $80 million to the economy of West Virginia. Important heritage tourism attractions in the region include the Biltmore Estate and the Eastern Band of the Cherokee reservation in North Carolina, Cades Cove in Tennessee, and Harpers Ferry in West Virginia. Important theme parks include Dollywood and Ghost Town Village, both on the periphery of the Great Smoky Mountains.\n\nThe mineral-rich mountain springs of the Appalachians—which for many years were thought to have health-restoring qualities—were drawing visitors to the region as early as the 18th century with the establishment of resorts at Hot Springs, Virginia, White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia, and what is now Hot Springs, North Carolina. Along with the mineral springs, the cool and clear air of the range's high elevations provided an escape for lowland elites, and elaborate hotels—such as The Greenbrier in West Virginia and the Balsam Mountain Inn in North Carolina—were built throughout the region's remote valleys and mountain slopes. The end of World War I (which opened up travel opportunities to Europe) and the arrival of the automobile (which changed the nation's vacation habits) led to the demise of all but a few of the region's spa resorts. The establishment of national parks in the 1930s brought an explosion of tourist traffic to the region, but created problems with urban sprawl in the various host communities. In the late 20th and early 21st centuries, states have placed greater focus on sustaining tourism while preserving host communities.\n\nPoverty had plagued Appalachia for many years but was not brought to the attention of the rest of the United States until 1940, when James Agee and Walker Evans published \"Let Us Now Praise Famous Men\", a book that documented families in Appalachia during the Great Depression in words and photos. In 1963, John F. Kennedy established the President's Appalachian Regional Commission. His successor, Lyndon B. Johnson, crystallized Kennedy's efforts in the form of the Appalachian Regional Commission, which passed into law in 1965.\n\nIn Appalachia, severe poverty and desolation were paired with the necessity for careful cultural sensitivity. Many Appalachian people feared that the birth of a new modernized Appalachia would lead to the death of their traditional values and heritage. Because of the isolation of the region, Appalachian people had been unable to catch up to the modernization that lowlanders have achieved. In the 1960s, many people in Appalachia had a standard of living comparable to Third World countries'. The film series \"West Virginia\", produced during the term of Governor Gaston Caperton, makes the point that at least on some level images of poverty were contrived. Lyndon B. Johnson declared a \"War on Poverty\" while standing on the front porch of an Inez, Kentucky, home whose residents had been suffering from a long-ignored problem. The Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965 stated:\n\nSince the creation of the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) in 1965, the region has seen dramatic progress. New roads, schools, health care facilities, water and sewer systems, and other improvements have brought a better life to many Appalachian residents. In the 1960s, 219 counties in the 13-state Appalachian Region were considered economically distressed. Now that list has been cut by more than half, to 82 counties, but these are \"hard-core\" pockets of poverty, seemingly impervious to all efforts at improving their lot. Martin County, Kentucky, the site of Johnson's 1964 speech, is one such county still ranked as \"distressed\" by the ARC. As of 2000, the per capita income in Martin County was $10,650, and 37% of its residents lived below the poverty line.\n\nLike Johnson, President Bill Clinton brought attention to the remaining areas of poverty in Appalachia. On July 5, 1999, he made a public statement concerning the situation in Tyner, Kentucky. Clinton told the enthusiastic crowd:\n\nThe region's poverty has been documented often since the early 1960s. John Cohen documents rural lifestyle and culture in \"The High Lonesome Sound\", while photojournalist Earl Dotter has been visiting and documenting poverty, healthcare and mining in Appalachia for nearly forty years. Another photojournalist, Shelby Lee Adams, has been photographing Appalachian families and lifestyle for decades.\n\nIn 1982 a seven-volume study conducted by the Appalachian Land Ownership Task Force was issued by the Appalachian Regional Commission which investigated the issue of absentee land ownership. The study covered 80 counties in six states approximating the area designated \"Southern Appalachia\" as defined by Thomas R. Ford's 1962 work. The states selected were Alabama (15 counties), Kentucky (12 counties), North Carolina (12 counties), Tennessee (14 counties), Virginia (12 counties), and West Virginia (15 counties).\nIn its summary the report stated that \"over 55,000 parcels of property in 80 counties were studied, representing some 20,000,000 acres of land and mineral rights...\" It found that \"41% of the 20 million acres of land and minerals...are held by only 50 private owners and 10 government agencies. The federal government is the single largest owner in Appalachia, holding over 2,000,000 acres.\" The study found that the extractive industries, i.e., timber, coal, etc., were \"greatly underassessed for property tax purposes. Over 75% of the mineral owners in this survey pay under 25 cents per acre in property taxes.\" In the major coal counties surveyed the average tax per ton of known coal reserves is only $.0002 (1/50th of a cent).\nThe government-held lands are tax exempt, but the government makes a payment in lieu of taxes, which is usually less than the normal tax rates.\n\n\"Taken together, the failure to tax minerals adequately, the underassessment of surface lands, and the revenue loss from concentrated federal holdings has a marked impact on local governments in Appalachia. The effect, essentially, is to produce a situation in which a) the small owners carry a disproportionate share of the tax burden; b) counties depend upon federal and state funds to provide revenues, while the large, corporate and absentee owners of the regions's resources go relatively tax-free; and c) citizens face a poverty of needed services despite the presence in their counties of taxable property wealth, especially in the form of coal and other natural resources.\"\n\nIn 2013, a similar study that concentrated solely on West Virginia found that 25 private owners hold 17.6% of the state's private land of 13 million acres. The federal government owns 1,133,587 acres in West Virginia, 7.4% of the total state acreage of 15,410,560 acres. In 11 counties the top ten absentee landowners own 41% to almost 72% of the private land in each county.\n\nThe Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) was created by the U.S. Congress in 1965 to bring poor areas of the 13 U.S. states of the main (southern) range of the Appalachians into the mainstream of the American economy. The commission is a partnership of federal, state, and local governments, and was created to promote economic growth and improve the quality of life in the region. The region as defined by the ARC includes 420 counties, including all of West Virginia; counties in 13 other states: Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia; and also eight cities in Virginia, where state law makes cities administratively separate from counties. The ARC is a planning, research, advocacy and funding organization; it does not have any governing powers.\n\nThe ARC's geographic range of coverage was defined broadly so as to cover as many economically underdeveloped areas as possible; it extends well beyond the area usually thought of as \"Appalachia\". For instance, parts of Alabama and Mississippi were included in the commission because of problems with unemployment and poverty similar to those in Appalachia proper, and the ARC region extends into the Northeastern states, which are not traditionally considered part of Appalachia culturally (though a \"northern Appalachia\" identity has emerged in recent times in parts of both NY and PA, particularly in rural areas). More recently, the Youngstown, Ohio, region was declared part of Appalachia by the ARC due to the collapse of the steel industry in the region in the early 1980s and the continuing unemployment problems in the region since, though aside from Columbiana County, Ohio, the Youngstown DMA isn't traditionally or culturally considered part of the region. The ARC's wide scope also grew out of the \"pork barrel\" phenomenon, as politicians from outside the traditional Appalachia area saw a new way to bring home federal money to their areas. However, former Ohio governor Bob Taft has stated, \"What is good for Appalachia is good for all of Ohio.\"\n\nTransportation has been the most challenging and expensive issue in Appalachia since the arrival of the first European settlers in the 18th century. With the exception of the October 1, 1940, opening of the Pennsylvania Turnpike, the region's mountainous terrain continuously thwarted major federal intervention attempts at major road construction until the 1970s. This left large parts of the region virtually isolated and slowing economic growth. Before the Civil War, major cities in the region were connected via wagon roads to lowland areas, and flatboats provided an important means for transporting goods out of the region. By 1900, railroads connected most of the region with the rest of the nation, although the poor roads made travel beyond railroad hubs difficult. When the Appalachian Regional Commission was created in 1965, road construction was considered its most important initiative, and in subsequent decades the commission spent more on road construction than all other projects combined.\n\nThe effort to connect Appalachia with the outside world has required numerous civil engineering feats. Millions of tons of rock were removed to build road segments such as Interstate 40 through the Pigeon River Gorge at the Tennessee-North Carolina state line and U.S. Route 23 in Letcher County, Kentucky. Large tunnels were built through mountain slopes at Cumberland Gap to speed up travel along U.S. Route 25E. The New River Gorge Bridge in West Virginia, completed in 1977, was the longest and is now the fourth-longest single-arch bridge in the world. The Blue Ridge Parkway's Linn Cove Viaduct, the construction of which required the assembly of 153 pre-cast segments up the slopes of Grandfather Mountain, has been designated a historic civil engineering landmark.\n\nDepictions of Appalachia and its inhabitants in popular media are typically negative, making the region an object of humor, derision, and social concern. Ledford writes, \"Always part of the mythical South, Appalachia continues to languish backstage in the American drama, still dressed, in the popular mind at least, in the garments of backwardness, violence, poverty, and hopelessness.\" Otto argues that comic strips \"Li'l Abner\" by Al Capp and \"Barney Google\" by Billy DeBeck, which both began in 1934, caricatured the laziness and weakness for \"corn squeezin's\" (moonshine) of these \"hillbillies\". The popular 1960s \"Andy Griffith Show\" and \"The Beverly Hillbillies\" on television and James Dickey's 1970 novel \"Deliverance\" perpetuated the stereotype, although the region itself underwent so many changes after 1945 that it scarcely resembles the comic images.\n\nIn 1839 Washington Irving proposed to rename the United States \"Alleghania\" or \"Appalachia\" in place of America, since the name belonged to Latin America too. Edgar Allan Poe later took up the idea, and considered Appalachia a much better name than America or Alleghania; he thought it better defined the United States as a distinct geographical entity, separate from the rest of the Americas, and he also thought it did honor to both Irving and the natives who the Appalachian Mountains had been named after. At the time, however, the United States had already reached far beyond the greater Appalachian region, but the \"magnificence\" of Appalachia Poe considered enough to rechristen the nation with a name that would be unique to its own character. However, Poe's popular influence only grew decades after his death, and so the name was never seriously considered.\n\nThe six physiographic provinces that in whole or in part are commonly treated as components of Appalachia are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54541619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54541619", "title": "Atlas of Hillforts of Britain and Ireland", "text": "Atlas of Hillforts of Britain and Ireland\n\nThe Atlas of Hillforts of Britain and Ireland is an online database of hillforts―fortified settlements built in the Bronze Age and Iron Age―in the British Isles. It was compiled by researchers from the University of Edinburgh, the University of Oxford and University College Cork, led by Ian Ralston and Gary Lock. , the atlas has 4,147 entries, which the researchers believe to be all of the extant hillforts in Britain and Ireland. A printed atlas is also planned.\n\nThe data was collated from existing catalogues of archaeological sites such as the National Monuments Records and county historic environment records. Around 100 volunteers, described as \"citizen scientists\", also visited sites and contributed information and photographs to the atlas. The researchers noted that despite the conventional name \"hillforts\", under their definition, many are \"not on hills and are not really forts\". They included sites that are now only visible through cropmarks.\n\nThe online atlas is hosted by the Arts and Humanities Research Council, which funded the project, and makes use of Esri's ArcGIS web map application platform. The project also collaborated with Wikimedia UK to make the information in the atlas available to Wikipedia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29381552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29381552", "title": "Bibliography of the Bahamas", "text": "Bibliography of the Bahamas\n\nThis bibliography of The Bahamas is a list of English-language nonfiction books which have been described by reliable sources as in some way directly relating to the subject of The Bahamas, its history, geography, people, culture, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "3443698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3443698", "title": "Bone tool", "text": "Bone tool\n\nIn archaeology, a bone tool is a tool created from bone. A bone tool can conceivably be created from almost any bone, and in a variety of methods.\n\nBone tools have been documented from the advent of \"Homo sapiens\" and are also known from \"Homo neanderthalensis\" contexts or even earlier. Bone has been used for making tools by virtually all hunter-gatherer societies, even when other materials were readily available. Any part of the skeleton can potentially be utilized; however, antlers and long bones provide some of the best working material. Long bone fragments can be shaped, by scraping against an abrasive stone, into such items as arrow and spear points, needles, awls, and fish hooks.\n\nBone tools had mainly been made from bone splinters or were cut into a useful shape. Archaeologists are convinced that bone tools were purposefully made by deer antlers cut into shape.\n\nThe bone was fashioned into tools such as spoons, knives, awls, pins, fish hooks, needles, flakers, hide scrapers and beamers. They made musical rasps, flutes and whistles as well as toys of bone. Decoratively carved articles were also made of bone such as hair combs, hair pins and pendants. Antler is much harder than bone and was used for flakers, points, knives and hair combs. Even the teeth and hooves did not go to waste. The teeth were drilled and used for decoration on clothing and necklaces. The hooves were also drilled and used for decoration on clothing as well as strung for rattles and bells.\n\nAs an organic material, bone often does not survive in a way that is archaeologically recoverable. However, under the right conditions, bone tools do sometimes survive and many have been recovered from locations around the world representing time periods throughout history and prehistory. Also many examples have been collected ethnographically, and some traditional peoples, as well as experimental archaeologists, continue to use bone to make tools.\n\nThe oldest excavated bone tools are from Africa, dated to about 1.5 million years ago. It is widely accepted that they appeared and developed in Africa before any other geographic region. A very famous excavation of bone tools is that of the Blombos Cave in South Africa. A collection of twenty-eight bone tools were recovered from 70 thousand year old Middle Stone Age levels at Blombos Cave. Careful analyses of these tools reveal that formal production methods were used to create awls and projectile points.\n\nBone tools have been discovered in the context of Neanderthal groups as well as throughout the development of anatomically modern humans. Archaeologists have long believed that Neanderthals learned how to make bone tools from modern humans and by mimicking stone tools, viewing bone as simply another raw material. Modern humans, on the other hand, took advantage of the properties of bone and worked them into specific shapes and tools.\n\nA recent discovery of specialized bone tools at two Neanderthal sites in southwestern France brings to light the idea that Neanderthals may have actually taught modern humans how to make specialized bone tools. The uncovering of lissoirs (\"polishing stones\") at these sites is significant as they are about 51,000 years old, predating the known arrival of modern humans to Europe.\n\nPrior to the Industrial Revolution (when machine mass production of sharp tools became viable), many everyday tools such as needles were made from bone; such items continue to be valued today as antiques.\nBone folders are still used by bookbinders.\n\nAn awl is as a long, pointed spike generally used for piercing or marking materials such as wood or leather. Bone awls are pointed tips made on any bone splinter. Bone awls vary considerably in the amount of polish from wear, the method of preparation, and size. Bone awls tend to be classified according to the characteristics of the bone used to make the awl. Many bone awls that retain an epiphysis, or rounded end of a bone. Although authors have differing theories as to the uses of bone awls, the two main uses agreed upon are as manipulators in the making of basketry and as perforators in the working of hide.\n\nBone spear points and bipoints have been found throughout the world. A mastodon rib bone found in Washington State was discovered in the 1970s with a broken bone projectile point stuck in it. Recent radiocarbon dating reveals that it is about 14,000 years old. This discovery is significant because it predates the arrival of the Clovis people, and may help rewrite human history in the Americas.\n\nHoes fashioned from bison scapula were common cultivating tools among the Plains Village Indians. In particular, it was used for cultivating small garden crops. It continued to be used among these Indians until iron hoes were brought by French traders in the 18th century. Recovered bone hoes range from 40 cm to as small as 15 cm. The size variation is due, in large part, to frequent resharpening.\n\nA number of different musical instruments have been created from bone. A vulture-bone flute discovered in Europe is currently considered the world's oldest musical instrument. At about 40,000 years old, the instrument dates to the time that modern humans were settling in the area. Researchers argue that musical instruments such as this flute helped modern humans form tighter social bonds, giving them an advantage over their Neanderthal counterparts.\n\nIn addition, bones consist of a pair of animal bones that are played by clacking the bones together. As a musical instrument, they have a history that dates to ancient China, Egypt and Greece.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20589499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20589499", "title": "Cautelary jurisprudence", "text": "Cautelary jurisprudence\n\nCautelary jurisprudence is law made in a precautionary way prior to or outside of the normal legislative enactment. It meant empirical, practical legal efforts aimed at solving individual cases, as distinguished from regular jurisprudence which sought to establish abstract rules under which individual cases would fall. Its first proponent was Quintus Mucius Scaevola Pontifex, who thus gave his name to the Roman designation for this kind of law, the \"cautio muciana\".\n\nCautelary law is a tentative \"procedure\" used by lawyers. Initially, in Ancient Rome, the idea of inheritance as being subject to conditions was not in practice. With \"cautio muciana\" it gave those who are to inherit a legacy, the \"legatees\", a \"negative authority\" over something which otherwise would not have occurred until the death of the owner of the legacy, the \"legator\". It thus also makes it possible for the legator to gain promises from legatees.\n\nThe legatee provides a stipulatio or \"cautio\", promising something in return for a legacy. Thus, for example, it may be stipulated in the negative, \"I agree that I can have full and exclusive use of, and live in the house, so long as I am not married.\"\n\nThe \"cautio muciana\" is one of a long list of legal devices invented used by the Romans to address practical situations without changes of general principles.\n\nCautelary jurisprudence nowadays is associated with inheritance law and the administration of trusts. The various inventions by lawyers of these new, arrangements, or forms of law, are often enacted outside of nation or state legislature, but with agreement amongst other lawyers and/or judges. Often, many years later, such arrangements are fully enacted as a 'catching up' exercise by the legislature.\n\n"}
{"id": "1667927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1667927", "title": "Claque", "text": "Claque\n\nA claque is an organized body of professional applauders in French theatres and opera houses. Members of a claque are called claqueurs.\n\nHiring people to applaud dramatic performances was common in classical times. For example, when the Emperor Nero acted, he had his performance greeted by an encomium chanted by five thousand of his soldiers.\n\nThis inspired the 16th-century French poet Jean Daurat to develop the modern claque. Buying a number of tickets for a performance of one of his plays, he gave them away in return for a promise of applause. In 1820 claques underwent serious systematization when an agency in Paris opened to manage and supply claqueurs.\n\nBy 1830 the claque had become an institution. The manager of a theatre or opera house was able to send an order for any number of claqueurs. These were usually under a \"chef de claque\" (leader of applause), who judged where the efforts of the \"claqueurs\" were needed and to initiate the demonstration of approval. This could take several forms. There would be \"commissaires\" (\"officers/commissioner\") who learned the piece by heart and called the attention of their neighbors to its good points between the acts. \"Rieurs\" (laughers) laughed loudly at the jokes. \"Pleureurs\" (criers), generally women, feigned tears, by holding their handkerchiefs to their eyes. \"Chatouilleurs\" (ticklers) kept the audience in a good humor, while \"bisseurs\" (encore-ers) simply clapped and cried \"Bis! Bis!\" to request encores.\n\nThe practice spread to Italy (famously at La Scala, Milan), Vienna, London (Covent Garden) and New York (the Metropolitan Opera). Claques were also used as a form of extortion, as singers were commonly contacted by the \"chef de claque\" before their debut and forced to pay a fee, in order not to get booed.\n\nThe staging of the opera \"Tannhäuser\" was withdrawn by its composer, Richard Wagner, from the Parisian operatic repertory after the claque of the Jockey Club derisively interrupted its initial performances.\n\nLater Toscanini and Mahler discouraged claques, as a part of the development of concert etiquette.\n\nAlthough the practice mostly died out in Europe during the mid-20th century, instances of actors paid to applaud at performances still appear today, most famously with the Bolshoi Ballet.\n\n"}
{"id": "34785801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34785801", "title": "Colin Crouch", "text": "Colin Crouch\n\nColin Crouch, (born 1944) is an English sociologist and political scientist. He coined the post-democracy concept in 2000 in his book \"Coping with Post-Democracy\". Colin Crouch is currently Emeritus Professor at the University of Warwick and an External Scientific Member of the Max Planck Institute for the Study of Societies.\n\nCrouch gained his BA at the LSE and his doctorate at Nuffield College, Oxford. In 1969, Crouch started as a lecturer in sociology at the London School of Economics.\nFrom 1972 to 1973 he was a Lecturer at the University of Bath. From 1973 to 1985 he was Lecturer and Reader in Sociology at the London School of Economics and Political Science. Then, from 1985 to 1994 he was a Fellow of Trinity College, Oxford, and Professor of Sociology at the University of Oxford. From 1995 to 2000 he was curator of their Bodleian Library. From 1995 to 2004 he was Professor of Sociology and chaired the department of Political Science at the European University Institute of Florence. From 2005 until 2011 he was Professor of Governance and Public Management at Warwick Business School. In 2005, he was elected fellow of the British Academy. Since 2011 he has been Emeritus Professor at the International Centre for Governance and Public Management, Warwick Business School, University of Warwick. He is also an External Scientific Member of the Max Planck Institute for the Study of Societies in Cologne.\n\nCrouch coined the term \"post-democracy\" in 2000 in his book \"Coping with Post-Democracy\". It designates states that are conducted by fully operating democratic systems (elections are being held, governments fall and there is freedom of speech), but whose application is progressively limited. A small elite is making the tough decisions and co-opts the democratic institutions. Crouch developed the idea in an article called \"Is there a liberalism beyond social democracy?\" for the think tank Policy Network and in his subsequent book \"The Strange Non-Death of Neo-Liberalism\". The term appeared to define a running evolution within democracies during the 21st century and is polemical because it calls attention to recognized democracies losing some of their foundations and evolving towards an aristocratic regime.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4547330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4547330", "title": "Constitution Park (New Hampshire)", "text": "Constitution Park (New Hampshire)\n\nConstitution Park was a 2005 proposal to pursue eminent domain against the Plainfield, New Hampshire vacation estate of Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer, in order to construct a park commemorating the US and New Hampshire Constitutions and providing an interpretive center and lodging for visitors. It came in response to the Supreme Court decision in \"Kelo v. City of New London\".\n\nAs with the similar Lost Liberty Hotel, the park's proponents, namely former LPNH Vice-Chair Mike Lorrey, the Libertarian Party of New Hampshire, and the Coalition of New Hampshire Taxpayers, advocate that the Kelo decision be used to improve the local tax base, expand economic opportunities in the community, which are \"public purposes\" under the wording of Kelo. Unlike the Lost Liberty Hotel, the Constitution Park would be a non-profit entity and open to the public for free, and so fits in more of a grey area between private for-profit use (as in the Hotel proposal as well as New London's plans) and strictly public ownership (as in roads, bridges, and other historically proper examples of the commonly accepted purpose of eminent domain).\n\nThe Constitution Park proposal was published in newspapers, media websites, and broadcast on television and radio. Apparently, the LPNH and CNHT had been planning a similar proposal for Justice Souter's property in Weare, NH, when they were scooped and co-opted by Logan Darrow Clements and his hotel proposal. When Mike Lorrey found that Breyer owned a significant estate in Plainfield (over in the main house, multiple buildings, and over of land, as well as another of adjacent property in Chloe Breyer's name), the proposal was adapted to pursue Breyer's property.\n\nAdditional questions were raised when comparisons of the property tax evaluation of the Breyer estate with similar adjacent properties showed that Breyer enjoys a valuation less than half that of his neighbors (according to Plainfield Town Clerk's office).\n\nNew Hampshire legislators, in response to calls by Lorrey, Clements, and LPNH gubernatorial candidate Rich Kahn, passed a proposed state constitutional amendment that will limit eminent domain in the state to property which will be strictly owned by government entities. This amendment was approved by voters (with 85.7% voting in favor) in the November 2006 general election.\n\n"}
{"id": "31176438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31176438", "title": "Crucifix of Ferdinand and Sancha", "text": "Crucifix of Ferdinand and Sancha\n\nThe crucifix of Ferdinand and Sancha () is an ivory carving from \"circa\" 1063, today in the National Archaeological Museum of Spain. It was part of an offering by King Ferdinand I of León and Queen Sancha to furnish the basilica of San Isidoro de León. It is the earliest known crucifix from Spain depicting the body of Christ. Although earlier Spanish crucifices of gold, ivory and wood are known, they are all without images. The official inventory of the royal gift describes the crucifix as \"a cross of ivory with the image of our crucified Redeemer\". It measures 52 cm high, 34.5 cm wide, and 1 cm thick, with the width of the cross beams being 7 cm. The image of Christ is 305 mm tall.\n\nThe figure of Christ is shown with its heading reclining to the left, its large eyes wide open and encrusted with jet, and sporting a beard and moustache. (Jet eyes were common at the time in ivory sculptures of the region.) Each foot is shown nailed individually to the cross. The fingers of Christ's right hand are missing. His \"perizonium\" (loin cloth) covers him to the knees and is tied at his waist. The legs and torso are perfectly vertical. There is a small space behind the body so the piece could serve as a reliquary, as was typical.\n\nOn the obverse of the cross are intertwined images of plants and animals, and of humans either ascending to paradise or descending to hell. Above the image of Christ is the inscription:\nIHSNAZA<br>RENUSREX<br>IUDEORU\nwhich transaltes \"Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews\", the citation placed on the cross according to the Four Gospels. Above the inscription on the ivory is a representation of the resurrected Christ carrying a cross. At the base of the cross, below the crucified figure, is a figure of Adam, and below that the inscription:\nFREDINANDUSREX<br>SANCIAREGINA\nindicating the commissioners of the work, King Ferdinand and Queen Sancha. The reverse of the cross bears plant figures, in the centre the Agnus Dei, and at the four extremities of the arms the symbols of the Four Evangelists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17228639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17228639", "title": "Disabilities (Jewish)", "text": "Disabilities (Jewish)\n\nJewish Disabilities were legal restrictions, limitations and obligations placed on European Jews in the Middle Ages, somewhat analogous to those imposed on Jews in the Muslim world. In Europe, the disabilities imposed on Jews included provisions requiring Jews to wear specific and identifying clothing such as the Jewish hat and the yellow badge, paying special taxes, swearing special oaths, living certain neighbourhoods, and forbidding Jews to enter certain trades (for example selling new clothes in medieval Sweden). Disabilities also included special taxes levied on Jews, exclusion from public life, restraints on the performance of religious ceremonies, and linguistic censorship. Some countries went even further and outright expelled Jews, for example England in 1290 (Jews were readmitted in 1655) and Spain in 1492 (readmitted in 1868).\n\nThe disabilities began to be lifted with Jewish emancipation in the late 18th and the 19th century. In 1791, Revolutionary France was the first country to abolish disabilities altogether, followed by Prussia in 1848. Emancipation of the Jews in the United Kingdom was achieved in 1858 after an almost 30-year struggle championed by Isaac Lyon Goldsmid with the ability of Jews to sit in parliament with the passing of the Jews Relief Act 1858. The newly united German Empire in 1871 abolished Jewish disabilities in Germany.\n\nThe first Jewish settlers in North America arrived in the Dutch colony of New Amsterdam in 1654. They were forbidden to hold public office, open a retail shop, or establish a synagogue. When the colony was seized by the British in 1664 Jewish rights remained unchanged, but by 1671 Asser Levy was the first Jew to serve on a jury in North America.\n\nIn the Russian Empire Jewish disabilities were completely abolished after the Russian Revolution in 1917, in which Jews had a prominent role. Soviet Russia had the largest population of Jews in the whole of Europe. However, extralegal antisemitic feelings and policies remained.\n\n"}
{"id": "58329037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58329037", "title": "Early Holocene sea level rise", "text": "Early Holocene sea level rise\n\nThe early Holocene sea level rise (EHSLR) was a significant jump in sea level\nby about during the early Holocene, between about 12,000 and 7,000 years ago, spanning the Eurasian Mesolithic. The rapid rise in sea level and associated climate change, notably the 8.2 ka cooling event,\nand the loss of coastal land favoured by early farmers, may have contributed to the spread of the Neolithic to Europe.\n\nDuring deglaciation since the Last Glacial Maximum, between about 20,000 to 7,000 years ago (20–7 ka), sea level rose \nby a total of about 100 m, at times at extremely high rates, due to the rapid melting of the British-Irish Sea, Fennoscandian, Laurentide, Barents-Kara, Patagonian, Innuitian and parts of the Antarctic ice sheets. \nAt the onset of deglaciation about 19 ka, a brief, at most 500-year long, glacio-eustatic event may have contributed as much as 10 m to sea level with an average rate of about 20 mm/yr. \nDuring the rest of the early Holocene, the rate of sea level rise varied from a low of about 6.0–9.9  mm/yr to as high as 30–60  mm/yr during brief periods of accelerated sea level rise.\n\nSolid geological evidence, based largely upon analysis of deep cores of coral reefs, exists only for three major periods of accelerated sea level rise, called \"meltwater pulses\", during the last deglaciation.\nThe first, Meltwater pulse 1A, lasted between c. 14.6–14.3 ka, a 13.5 m rise over about 290 years centered at 14.2 ka.\n\nThe EHSLR spans Meltwater pulses 1B and 1C, between 12,000 and 7,000 years ago:\nSuch rapid rates of sea level rising during meltwater events clearly implicate major ice-loss events related to ice sheet collapse. The primary source may have been meltwater from the Antarctic ice sheet. Other studies suggest a Northern Hemisphere source for the meltwater in the Laurentide ice sheet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4650693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4650693", "title": "Earth observation", "text": "Earth observation\n\nEarth observation (EO) is the gathering of information about the physical, chemical, and biological systems of the planet via remote-sensing technologies, supplemented by Earth-surveying techniques, which encompasses the collection, analysis, and presentation of data. Earth observation is used to monitor and assess the status of and changes in natural and built environments.\n\nIn recent years, Earth observation has become technologically sophisticated increasingly. It has also become more important due to the dramatic impact that modern human civilization is having on the world and the need to minimize negative effects (e.g. geohazards), along with the opportunities such observation provides to improve social and economic well-being.\n\nThe term \"Earth observation\" is used in two ways, leading to confusion. In Europe, in particular, it has often been used to refer to satellite-based remote sensing, but the term is also used to refer to any form of observations of the Earth system, including in situ and airborne observations, for example. The Group on Earth Observations, which has over 100 member countries and over 100 participating organizations, uses EO in this broader sense.\n\nTo add to the confusion, in the US, for example, the term \"remote sensing\" is often used to refer to satellite-based remote sensing, but sometimes used more broadly for observations using any form of remote sensing technology, including airborne sensors and even ground-based sensors such as cameras. Perhaps the least ambiguous term to use for satellite-based sensors is \"satellite remote sensing\", or SRS, an acronym which is gradually starting to appear in the literature.\n\nEarth observations may include:\n\nJust as Earth observations consist of a wide variety of possible elements, they can be applied to a wide variety of possible uses. Some of the specific applications of Earth observations are:\n\nThe quality and quantity of Earth observations continue to mount rapidly. In addition to the ongoing launch of new remote-sensing satellites, increasingly sophisticated in situ instruments located on the ground, on balloons and airplanes, and in rivers, lakes and oceans, are generating increasingly comprehensive, nearly real-time observations.\n\n\nAn example of Earth observing sensors are the sensors in the Landsat program.\n"}
{"id": "30629915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30629915", "title": "Esperanza Stone", "text": "Esperanza Stone\n\nThe Esperanza Stone was a large (8-feet long) inscribed stone found in the valley of the Yaqui, Mexico. It was discovered and excavated in 1909 by Major F. R. Burnham and Charles Frederick Holder. \n\nThe stone was discovered during an expedition in the Yaqui valley.\n\nThe stone was \"a brown, igneous rock, its longest axis about eight feet, and on the eastern face, which had an angle of about forty-five degrees, was the deep-cut inscription.\" Symbols on the stone include a volute and a swastika, also found on other stones in Mexico.\n\nThere was a legend that the stone had fallen down out of heaven in times past, and that the carving was by human hands.\n\nBurnham believed that the symbols were Mayan. Others class them as Petroglyphs.\n"}
{"id": "31062805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31062805", "title": "Frankie Hewitt", "text": "Frankie Hewitt\n\nFrankie Hewitt (née Teague; June 17, 1931 – February 28, 2003) was an American theater producer and founder of the Ford's Theatre Society, responsible for restoring and reopening the historic site as a working theater. \n\nBorn Frankie Teague in Roger Mills County, Oklahoma, she was women's editor of the \"Napa Daily Register\" from 1949-51 and later worked for the California Institute for Social Welfare (1954-55), the National Institute for Social Welfare (1956-58), the US Senate Subcommittee to Investigate Juvenile Delinquency (1959-61), and the US mission to the United Nations (1961-63) under Ambassador Adlai Stevenson. \n\nShe founded the Ford's Theatre society in 1967 and the theater reopened with a production of \"John Brown's Body\" by Stephen Vincent Benet on February 12, 1968. She produced over 150 stage shows and more than 15 network television specials broadcast from the theater. For her work with the theater she was awarded a 2002 National Humanities Medal. \n\nHer second marriage was to \"60 Minutes\" producer Don Hewitt until their divorce in 1974. She had two daughters: Lisa Gabrielle Hewitt Cassara, a coordinating producer of the syndicated television show \"A Current Affair\", and Jilian Childers Hewitt, from her first marriage to Bob Childers.\n\nShe died at her home in Kensington, Maryland from cancer, aged 71.\n\n"}
{"id": "13508973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13508973", "title": "Freedom versus license", "text": "Freedom versus license\n\nIn moral and legal philosophy, there exists a distinction between the concepts of freedom and licence. The former deals with the rights of the individual; the latter covers the expressed permission (or lack thereof) for more than one individual to engage in an activity.\n\nAs a result, freedoms usually include rights which are usually recognized (often, not always, in an unconditional manner) by the government (and access to which is theoretically enforced against any and all interferences). Licenses, on the other hand, are distributed to individuals who make use of a specific item, expressing the permission to use the item or service under specified, conditional terms and boundaries of usage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30156743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30156743", "title": "Functions of Language", "text": "Functions of Language\n\nFunctions of Language is a peer-reviewed academic journal that covers the field of linguistics treated from a functional perspective. It has been published by John Benjamins since 1994. The current editors in chief are Martin Hilpert (University of Neuchâtel), J. Lachlan Mackenzie (Free University Amsterdam), and Geoff Thompson (University of Liverpool).\n"}
{"id": "2794830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2794830", "title": "Geovisualization", "text": "Geovisualization\n\nGeovisualization or Geovisualisation, short for \"Geographic Visualization\", refers to a set of tools and techniques supporting the analysis of geospatial data through the use of interactive visualization.\n\nLike the related fields of scientific visualization and information visualization geovisualization emphasizes knowledge construction over knowledge storage or information transmission. To do this, geovisualization communicates geospatial information in ways that, when combined with human understanding, allow for data exploration and decision-making processes.\n\nTraditional, static maps have a limited exploratory capability; the graphical representations are inextricably linked to the geographical information beneath. GIS and geovisualization allow for more interactive maps; including the ability to explore different layers of the map, to zoom in or out, and to change the visual appearance of the map, usually on a computer display. Geovisualization represents a set of cartographic technologies and practices that take advantage of the ability of modern microprocessors to render changes to a map in real time, allowing users to adjust the mapped data on the fly.\n\nThe term visualization is first mentioned in the cartographic literature at least as early as 1953, in an article by University of Chicago geographer Allen K. Philbrick. New developments in the field of computer science prompted the National Science Foundation to redefine the term in a 1987 report which placed visualization at the convergence of computer graphics, image processing, computer vision, computer-aided design, signal processing, and user interface studies and emphasized both the knowledge creation and hypothesis generation aspects of scientific visualization.\n\nGeovisualization developed as a field of research in the early 1980s, based largely on the work of French graphic theorist Jacques Bertin. Bertin’s work on cartographic design and information visualization share with the National Science Foundation report a focus on the potential for the use of “dynamic visual displays as prompts for scientific insight and on the methods through which dynamic visual displays might leverage perceptual cognitive processes to facilitate scientific thinking”.\n\nGeovisualization has continued to grow as a subject of practice and research. The International Cartographic Association (ICA) established a Commission on Visualization & Virtual Environments in 1995.\n\nGeovisualization is closely related to other visualization fields, such as scientific visualization and information visualization. Owing to its roots in cartography, geovisualization contributes to these other fields by way of the map metaphor, which “has been widely used to visualize non-geographic information in the domains of information visualization and domain knowledge visualization.\" It is also related to urban simulation.\n\nGeovisualization has made inroads in a diverse set of real-world situations calling for the decision-making and knowledge creation processes it can provide. The following list provides a summary of some of these applications as they are discussed in the geovisualization literature.\nE\n\nFirefighters have been using sandbox environments to rapidly and physically model topography and fire for wildfire incident command strategic planning. The SimTable is a 3D interactive fire simulator, bringing sandtable exercises to life. The SimTable uses advanced computer simulations to model fires in any area, including local neighborhoods, utilizing actual slope, terrain, wind speed/direction, vegetation, and other factors. SimTable Models were used in Arizona's largest fire on record, the Wallow Fire.\n\nGeovisualizers, working with European foresters, used CommonGIS and Visualization Toolkit (VTK) to visualize a large set of spatio-temporal data related to European forests, allowing the data to be explored by non-experts over the Internet. The report summarizing this effort “uncovers a range of fundamental issues relevant to the broad field of geovisualization and information visualization research”.\n\nThe research team cited the two major problems as the inability of the geovisualizers to convince the foresters of the efficacy of geovisualization in their work and the foresters’ misgivings over the dataset’s accessibility to non-experts engaging in “uncontrolled exploration”. While the geovisualizers focused on the ability of geovisualization to aid in knowledge construction, the foresters preferred the information-communication role of more traditional forms of cartographic representation.\n\nGeovisualization provides archaeologists with a potential technique for mapping unearthed archaeological environments as well as for accessing and exploring archaeological data in three dimensions.\n\nThe implications of geovisualization for archaeology are not limited to advances in archaeological theory and exploration but also include the development of new, collaborative relationships between archaeologists and computer scientists.\n\nGeovisualization tools provide multiple stakeholders with the ability to make balanced environmental decisions by taking into account “the complex interacting factors that should be taken into account when studying environmental changes\". Geovisualization users can use a georeferenced model to explore a complex set of environmental data, interrogating a number of scenarios or policy options to determine a best fit.\n\nBoth planners and the general public can use geovisualization to explore real-world environments and model ‘what if’ scenarios based on spatio-temporal data. While geovisualization in the preceding fields may be divided into two separate domains—the private domain, in which professionals use geovisualization to explore data and generate hypotheses, and the public domain, in which these professionals present their “visual thinking” to the general public—planning relies more heavily than many other fields on collaboration between the general public and professionals.\n\nPlanners use geovisualization as a tool for modeling the environmental interests and policy concerns of the general public. Jiang et al. mention two examples, in which “3D photorealistic representations are used to show urban redevelopment [and] dynamic computer simulations are used to show possible pollution diffusion over the next few years.” The widespread use of the Internet by the general public has implications for these collaborative planning efforts, leading to increased participation by the public while decreasing the amount of time it takes to debate more controversial planning decisions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40711193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40711193", "title": "How to Survive (video game)", "text": "How to Survive (video game)\n\nHow to Survive is a survival horror action role-playing video game developed by French studio EKO Software and published by 505 Games. It was released on October 23, 2013 for Xbox 360, Xbox One, Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, and PlayStation 4 and it was released in June 2014 for the Nintendo eShop.\n\n\"How to Survive\" is played from a top-down perspective. There are two game modes, story and challenge, and both can be played with up to two players. Challenge mode puts the player(s) on one side of the island, and they must get to the other side, where their getaway vehicle awaits. The player's mission is to gather materials, craft weapons, and make it off the island without dying. Neither challenge or story are timed, and therefore, the player can take as long as they want.\n\nPlayers play as one of three survivors - the all rounded Kenji, the fast, arczar Abbie or the brawling Jack - shipwrecked on one of four zombie-infested islands that form an archipelago. After finding food for another wounded survivor, Andrew (who has already suffered a zombie bite), the survivor meets a one-legged old man named Ramon who owns a boat that can be used to travel between the islands. Together, they hatch a plan to escape the archipelago using a beached seaplane, with Andrew as the pilot. Ramon sends the survivor to fetch materials to repair the plane.\n\nThe survivor soon meets Kovac, a mysterious man in full armor who has made the islands his personal hunting ground. A self-proclaimed master survivor, Kovac is using his extensive field experience to write a zombie survival guide ('Kovac's Rules'), and gladly assumes a mentor role, helping the survivor with valuable advice and tools throughout the course of the game.\n\nOn the search, the survivor meets a woman named Carol whose young daughter, Emily, got separated from her. The survivor locates Emily, stranded on a cliffside, but is unable to save her from falling into the sea and getting swept away; Carol is devastated by the news. The plane is repaired, but Ramon realizes Andrew is (obviously) in no condition to pilot it and sends the survivor in search of someone who can.\n\nThe survivor meets a senile old woman, Martha, who is missing her companion Enzo (who turns out to be a cat). After retrieving Enzo, the survivor learns from her of a drunken former airplane pilot named Sanchez who lives nearby. Sanchez turns out to be a drug smuggler who lost all his cargo when his plane crashed, and the survivor is forced to comb the entire archipelago for his scattered packages to secure his cooperation.\n\nAlong the way, the survivor finds Emily alive, but imprisoned, and frees her, reuniting her with Carol. The girl claims she was taken prisoner by a strange man whose face she never saw; her testimony, added to Carol's accusation of the same man being responsible for guiding the ship she was on onto the reefs, makes it evident that Kovac is not all he seems after all.\n\nThe survivor eventually gathers Sanchez, Carol, and Emily by the repaired seaplane. Sanchez wants to leave at once, but the survivor insists they fetch Ramon as well. However, not far from the plane the survivor is instead confronted by Kovac, who shows his true colors, claiming he does not want the survivor to leave as they have 'not finished their training'. He then sets the survivor a 'final exam' by attracting a massive zombie horde, which will have to be fought off while the plane starts up. Finally, after a grueling battle, the survivor manages to escape back to the plane, and it takes off with Kovac calling through a loudspeaker for the survivor to 'come back'.\n\nThe game ends with Kovac causing another shipwreck by misguiding a ship over the radio, just as he did with the player's in the beginning. He then calls an accomplice, stating that a \"new shipment of recruits\" has arrived, and the accomplice answers with \"\"Copy, amigo. I'm in position. Ready to play another round?\".\" It is then seen that the accomplice is none other than the old cripple, Ramon.\n\n\"How to Survive\" received mixed reviews upon release.\n\n\"How To Survive - Third Person Standalone\" was announced on June 4, 2015. It is an expansion pack in which players play the game in a third-person perspective, as opposed to the top-down perspective of the original \"How to Survive\". A sequel, \"How to Survive 2\" was announced on August 28, 2015. It features enhanced graphics and an expanded home base camp and crafting system. It was set in New Orleans and it was released on Steam's early access in October 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "1362146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1362146", "title": "John Howard Lawson", "text": "John Howard Lawson\n\nJohn Howard Lawson (September 25, 1894 – August 11, 1977) was an American writer. He was for several years head of the Hollywood division of the Communist Party USA. He was also the organization's cultural manager and answered directly to V.J. Jerome, the Party's New York-based cultural chief. He was the first president of the Writers Guild of America, West after the Screen Writers Guild divided into two regional organizations.\n\nLawson was one of the Hollywood Ten, the first group of American film industry professionals to be blacklisted during the 1950s McCarthy era.\n\nLawson was born to a Jewish family in New York City, New York on September 25, 1894 to Simeon Levy and Belle Hart Lawson. His father changed their name from Levy to Lawson before his son was born, joking that this was so that his son could \"obtain reservations at expensive resort hotels\". When he was five, his mother died. She had named her children after people she admired: John Howard Lawson was named after the prison reformer John Howard, his sister Adelaide Jaffery Lawson was named after a friend of hers who was socially active, and Wendell Holmes Lawson was named after reforming American jurist Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.\n\nAfter Simeon's wife died, he would take control of the children's education: first to Halstead School in Yonkers, New York and then Cutler School (New York) in New Rochelle, New York. In 1906, Simeon sent the three children on a tour of Europe, and seeing theatre was on the list. John Howard would take notes on the set designs, actors, and plays. In 1909, they were sent on a tour of America and Canada.\n\nAt age seven, he attended Elizabeth and Alexis Ferms' \"Children's Playhouse\" school, an experimental school for children.\n\nAfter studying at Williams College (1910–1914) and graduating with a B.A., he became a successful writer with plays such as \"Standards\" (1916) and \"Servant-Master-Lover\" (1916). While there, his brother was in Germany studying music and art. Works of Karl Kautsky struck him because of his sense of alienation. He was not only a contributor to \"The Williams College Monthly\", but also an editor of the senior-class book and a member of the varsity debating team. He was known to other students as a good-natured iconoclast and a frequent speaker at undergraduate meetings. After graduating, he would become an editor at Reuters from 1914-1915.\n\nHis first piece, \"A Hindoo Love Drama\" was written while at Williams. Mary Kirkpatrick, who was the head of the Williams College Drama Club, was impressed by this effort. That confidence inspired him to write three plays in 1915-1916: \"Standards\", \"The Spice of Life\", and \"Servant-Master-Lover\".\n\n\"Standards\" was bought by George M. Cohan and Sam Harris and was given a tryout in Albany and Syracuse in 1915. It never made it to Broadway. Oliver Morosco produced \"Servant-Master-Lover\" in a run in Los Angeles, but to bad reviews.\n\nWhen the United States entered World War I in 1917, he was opposed to joining. His father helped him to get a position in the Norton-Harjes Volunteer Ambulance Corps. In June 1917, he left for the war and aboard the ship he met John Dos Passos. In November, when Norton-Hayes folded into the American Red Cross's Ambulance Service, Dos Passos and Lawson decided to become drivers and they left for Italy. At this time, Dos Passos was working on \"One Man's Initiation: 1917\" and Lawson on \"Roger Bloomer\". While serving, they were outfitted to Paris where Lawson went to the Comédie-Française and Sergey Diaghilev's ballet troupe. In January 1918, Dos Passos wrote a letter that was critical of the ambulance company, made its way to the Red Cross officials, and he was forced to resign. Lawson was under suspicion, but he managed to stay in Italy and do public-relations work for the Red Cross.\n\nIn the spring of 1919, Lawson left Italy for Paris, where he married his first wife, Katharine (Kate) Drain, who was a volunteer nurses aide, and later would be an actress. They would have one child, but divorce by 1923.\n\nAfter the war he edited a newspaper in Rome. He then lived in Paris in 1920-1921, which is where he would complete \"Roger Bloomer\". This was Lawson's first show to reach Broadway, which opened on March 1, 1923. It was put on by the Equity Players and ran for fifty performances.\n\nHis next show, \"Processional\",opened on Broadway on January 12, 1925 and was put on by the Theatre Guild. It ran for 96 performances. The production, however, failed financially, and the Theatre Guild told Lawson that they would not stage any more expressionistic plays.It was later revived in 1937 for the Federal Theatre Project to critical and popular acclaim.\n\nHis love of theatre was heightened when in 1926 the New York International Theatrical Exposition showcased experimental European cubist, futurist, and constructivist plays. After seeing this, Lawson, Dos Passos, and Michael Gold (founder/editor of The New Masses) formed the Workers Drama League to produce revolutionary plays. Only one production and a few weeks later, the three men disbanded. They then joined Em Jo Basshe and Francis Edward Faragoh and formed the New Playwrights Theatre. This lasted until 1929, mostly due to the funding from millionaire Otto Hermann Kahn.\n\nMarch 3, 1926 was the premiere of \"Nirvana\" at the Greenwich Village Theatre, but only ran for six performances. The play calls for a new religion that can help people survive the swirling cyclone of jazz, new machinery, great buildings, science fiction, tabloids, and radio. The play was only put on for that long because of Lawson's reputation after \"Processional\" and the incredible set design by Mordecai Gorelik.\n\nIn late 1926, along with Dos Passos, Gold, were on the National Executive Committee who attempted to found the Proletarian Artists and Writers League, with backing from a similar Soviet organization. In August 1927, Dos Passos, Gold, and Lawson went to Boston to protest the Sacco and Vanzetti trial. In his diary afterword, Lawson would write that he could \"neither ignore the flaws in American politics and economics nor bring himself to become more deeply involved in the struggle\".\n\nThe first play produced by the New Playwrights Theatre, \"Loud Speaker\" opened on March 7, 1927 at the 52nd Street Theatre and ran for forty-two performances. The idea of the play stemmed from the ceremonial laying of the cornerstone at the new Theatre Guild playhouse in 1924, in which Governor Alfred E. Smith and Otto Kahn were both in attendance. Lawson wondered if Kahn would be a more interesting governor than Smith.\n\nWhile he was in Hollywood, New Playwrights Theatre decided to produce one of his plays, \"The International\", with the set design by John Dos Passos. It opened on January 12, 1928 and ran for twenty-seven performances.\n\nIn 1928, Lawson moved to Hollywood where he wrote scripts for films such as \"The Ship for Shanghai\", \"Bachelor Apartment\", and \"Goodbye Love\". In the winter of 1930-1931, it was at this time during the Great Depression that Lawson wrote \"Success Story\". The Theatre Guild rejected the script, but Harold Clurman, a reader for them, had recently just formed the Group Theatre and needed new scripts. Clurman and Lawson reworked the play during the summer of 1932, and \"Success Story\" opened on September 26, 1932 for 121 performances. Lawson would also pen the screenplay based on the play, \"Success at Any Price\" in 1934.\n\nIn 1933, Lester Cole, Samuel Ornitz, and Lawson helped to organize and become first presidents of the Screen Writers Guild. After he was fired from Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, he moved to Washington, D.C. to have the group established by National Labor Board for purposes of bargaining for screenwriters. While in D.C., \"The Pure in Heart\" and \"Gentlewoman\" were being produced in New York.\n\nLawson wrote \"The Pure in Heart\" while he was working on Success Story. The Theatre Guild agreed to produce the play, but closed it when the out-of-town tryout in Baltimore failed. After the Group Theatre also rejected the play, it was produced by Richard Aldrich and Alfred De Liagre. \"The Pure in Heart\" opened on March 20 and had a run of only seven performances.\n\n\"Gentlewoman\", in association with D. A. Doran Jr, was put up by the Group Theatre and opened on March 22, 1934. It ran for twelve performances.\n\nDuring the 1930s, leftists accused Lawson of having a lack of ideological and political commitment. New Playwrights Theatre associate Mike Gold attacked him in \"The New Masses\" on April 10, 1934, calling him a \"A Bourgeois Hamlet of Our Time\" who wrote adolescent works that lacked moral fiber or clear ideas. Lawson responded a week later in \"The New Masses\" in the article \"'Inner Conflict' and Proletarian Art\" he cited his middle-class childhood as the reason why he could not fully understand the working people. He also recognized that his prosperity and Hollywood connections were suspect in the fight for workers' rights. Due to the criticism, he joined the Communist Party and began a program of educating himself about the proletarian cause. He would soon travel throughout the poverty-stricken South to study bloody labor conflicts in Alabama and Georgia.\n\nWhile in the South, he would submit articles to the \"Daily Worker\", which got him arrested numerous times. These experiences would inspire his next play, \"Marching Song\". It was put on by the radical Theatre Union and it opened on February 17, 1937 and ran for sixty-one performances.\n\nLawson, who joined the American Communist Party in 1934, made several films that were political, including \"Blockade\" (1938), which starred Henry Fonda. It was a film on the Spanish Civil War for which he received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Story. Lawson also wrote \"Counter-Attack\" (1945), a tribute to the Soviet-USA alliance during the Second World War. He also wrote more innocuous films, such as the critically acclaimed \"Algiers\" (1938) and the Humphrey Bogart vehicles \"Sahara\" and \"Action in the North Atlantic\" in 1943.\n\nAfter World War II, the House Committee on Un-American Activities (HUAC) began an investigation into the Hollywood Motion Picture Industry. Lawson appeared before the HUAC on October 29, 1947, but like Alvah Bessie, Herbert Biberman, Albert Maltz, Adrian Scott, Dalton Trumbo, Lester Cole, Edward Dmytryk, Samuel Ornitz and Ring Lardner Jr, he refused to answer almost all questions. Known as the Hollywood Ten, they claimed that the First Amendment of the United States Constitution gave them the right to do this. The HUAC and U.S. appeals courts, however, disagreed and all were found guilty of contempt of Congress and Lawson was sentenced to twelve months in Ashland Prison and fined $1,000. In his 1951 HUAC testimony, Edward Dmytryk testified that Lawson, amongst others, had pressured him to put communist propaganda in his films.\n\nLawson had organized and led the attack on Albert Maltz when Maltz published an article, \"What Shall We Ask of Writers\", in \"The New Masses\", challenging the didacticism of the American Communist Party's censorship of writers. Surprised by the ferocity of attack from his fellow writers, including Lawson, Howard Fast, Alvah Bessie, Ring Lardner, Jr., Samuel Sillen, and others, Maltz publicly recanted.\n\nBlacklisted by the Hollywood studios, Lawson moved to Mexico where he began writing Marxist interpretations of drama and film-making such as \"The Hidden Heritage\" (1950), \"Film in the Battle of Ideas\" (1953) and \"Film: The Creative Process\" (1964). He also wrote one of the first anti-apartheid movies, \"Cry, the Beloved Country\" (1951) under a pseudonym.\n\nAfter he was blacklisted, he taught at several universities including: Stanford University, Loyola Marymount University, and Los Angeles University of Judaism.\n\nIn his book \"Film in the Battle of Ideas\", Lawson wrote that \"the rulers of the United States take the film very seriously as an instrument of propaganda\" and that the influence of Hollywood movies is utilized to \"poison the minds of U.S. working-class people\" and that inaccurately describes the reality of U.S. working-class life. Lawson wrote that Hollywood \"falsifies the life of American workers\" and its \"unwritten law decrees that only the middle and upper classes provide themes suitable for film presentation, and that workers appear on the screen only in subordinate or comic roles.\" According to Lawson, \"workers and their families see films which urge them to despise the values by which they live, and to emulate the corrupt values of their enemies\" and \"the consistent presentation on the nation's screens of the views that working-class life is to be despised and that workers who seek to protect their class interests are stupid, malicious, or even treasonable\" is what Hollywood engages in.\n\nLawson also argued that Hollywood promoted degrading images of women in the first half of the 20th century. According to Lawson, \"Hollywood treats 'glamour' and sex appeal as the sum-total of woman's personality\" and \"portraits of women in Hollywood films fall into three general categories: the woman as a criminal or the instigator of crime; the woman as man's enemy, fighting and losing - for she must always lose - in the battle of the sexes; the woman as a `primitive' child, fulfilling the male dream of a totally submissive vehicle of physical pleasure.\" Lawson also argued that in most U.S. movies \"when a woman succeeds in the world of competition, Hollywood holds that her success is achieved by trickery, deceit, and the amoral use of sexual appeal.\"\n\nHis unpublished autobiography is at Southern Illinois University Carbondale in Carbondale, Illinois.\n\nHe was born into a wealthy Jewish family, and this is said to have caused some dilemmas while he was younger. He once went over to a Christian schoolmate's house to play, and he let slip that his father's real name was Levy. He was thereafter not invited to the house again.\n\nHis father also insisted for the sake of appearances that they should join a Christian church. They joined the First Church at 96th Street and Central Park West, but John Howard still maintained strict observation of Jewish dietary laws.\n\nWhile at Williams College during his sophomore year, he was denied election to the editorial board of \"The Williams College Monthly\" because some students raised questions about his Jewish background. He would later say that it was a good experience because it forced him \"to begin his struggle to come to terms with his Jewish identity\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22975285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22975285", "title": "Journal of Modern African Studies", "text": "Journal of Modern African Studies\n\nThe Journal of Modern African Studies is a quarterly academic journal covering developments in modern African politics and society. Its main emphasis is on current issues in African politics, economies, societies, and international relations. It publishes approximately 25 articles and 30 book reviews a year.\n\nThe journal is published by Cambridge University Press and as of 2018 its editors will be Ian Taylor [St. Andrews University] and Ebenezer Obadare [University of Kansas]. It was edited by Leonardo A. Villalón [University of Florida] and Paul Nugent [University of Edinburgh] from 2012-2017, and by Christopher Clapham from the University of Cambridge from 1997 to 2012. David Kimble from the National University of Lesotho served as its founding editor from 1963 to 1997.\n\nAccording to the 2008 Journal Citation Reports, the journal has an impact factor of 1.041, ranking it 4th out of 38 in the category \"Area Studies\". The journal is currently abstracted and indexed in: \n\n"}
{"id": "39730622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39730622", "title": "Journal of Narrative Theory", "text": "Journal of Narrative Theory\n\nThe Journal of Narrative Theory is a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal covering narratology in literary fiction. The journal was established in 1971 as the \"Journal of Narrative Technique\" and obtained its current title in 1999. It is published by the Department of English at Eastern Michigan University and the editors-in-chief are Abby Coykendall and Andrea Kaston Tange. In \"An Introduction to Narratology\", Monika Fludernik lists it as one of \"the most important journals in the field\".\n"}
{"id": "13355160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13355160", "title": "Karanovo culture", "text": "Karanovo culture\n\nThe Karanovo culture is a neolithic culture (Karanovo I-III ca. 62nd to 55th centuries BC) named for the Bulgarian village of (Караново, Sliven Province ). The site at Karanovo itself was a hilltop settlement of 18 buildings, housing some 100 inhabitants.. This site was inhabited more or less continuously from the early 7th to the early 2nd millennia BC.\n\nThe layers at Karanovo are employed as a chronological system for Balkans prehistory:\n\n"}
{"id": "5503167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5503167", "title": "Kiekie (clothing)", "text": "Kiekie (clothing)\n\nA kiekie is a Tongan dress, an ornamental girdle around the waist, mainly worn by women on semiformal occasions, but nowadays also sometimes by men. At highly formal occasions both gender will settle for a taovala. At casual occasions no girdle is needed for any gender, although women may continue wearing a kiekie even then, as it is considered an easy sitting, nice looking decoration, with which one can show off. (All taovala look more or less the same, and are usually quite stiff and hot to wear).\n\nThe characteristic of a kiekie is that it is between a mat and a grass skirt \"(manafau)\": it is a string skirt attached to a waistband. It is supposed to be somewhat transparent, showing the skirt or tupenu worn under it. The strings can be short as a mini skirt, or down to the ankles, but down to somewhat above the knees is most common.\n\nRelated to the kiekie is the \"sisi\", where the strings are sī leaves or plaited \"maile\" leaves, but where the waistband, full with sweet smelling flowers and fruits, is more important. Sisi are worn by both gender during dance performances.\n\nKiekie are part of the koloa, the handicraft goods made by the women. Every woman can do it, although nowadays we see that some women specialise in it and sell their products on the market.\n\nKiekie can be made from many different materials, both natural and introduced:\n\n"}
{"id": "19240781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19240781", "title": "Kings Crossing Site", "text": "Kings Crossing Site\n\nKings Crossing Site is an archaeological site that is a type site for the \"Kings Crossing Phase (950-1050 CE)\" of the Lower Yazoo Basin Coles Creek chronology.\n\nThe site is located four miles north of the center of Vicksburg, between Chickasaw Bayou and the Illinois Central railroad tracks.\n\nClarence B. Moore, who visited the site in 1908, described Mound A as being tall, although by the 1950s it had been significantly reduced in height. Mound B has been almost completely leveled, although a small rise can be discerned. Mound C is roughly tall. Mounds A and C are both roughly sq. Pottery sampling in the 1950s from Mound A gave the site a historical importance out of all proportion to its size. Test pits from a 1949 excavation of the Holly Bluff Site produced an important glimpse of a late \"transitional\" Coles Creek to Plaquemine assemblage featuring thin tapered rims of polished plain ware and carefully executed varieties of Coles Creek incised and associated types. Although intriguing as pottery, it was not sufficiently integrated strategraphically to postulate a distinct phase. Site sampling from the Kings Crossing Site in 1954 supplied the integration and gave the phase a name. Since then, especially in the Tensas Basin, it has become one of the firmest and most easily identifiable ceramic complexes in the Lower Mississippi area.\n\nIn 2005 the Kings Crossing Site was portrayed on the Vicksburg Floodwall Mural project to represent the American Indian heritage of the region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7131112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7131112", "title": "Korg: 70,000 B.C.", "text": "Korg: 70,000 B.C.\n\nKorg: 70,000 B.C. is a 30-minute Saturday morning live-action television series created by Fred Freiberger, narrated by Burgess Meredith and produced by Hanna-Barbera Productions which was broadcast on ABC from September 7, 1974 to August 30, 1975.\n\n\"Korg\" featured the adventures of a family of Neanderthals during the Ice Age. It was intended to be educational, and was based on the best then-current research about Neanderthal life, except where its situations had to be watered down for a young audience which Hanna, Barbera, and the network feared might be terrified without such expurgation.\n\nA board game of the same title was produced by the US toy company Milton Bradley as a direct tie-in. Charlton Comics published a Korg comic book from May 1975 to November 1976. The series was written and drawn by Pat Boyette, and lasted for 9 issues.\n\nThe American Museum of Natural History and The Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History served as consultants to the series.\n\nThe complete series (actually only 16 of the 19 episodes) was released by Warner Archive on December 11, 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "41340805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41340805", "title": "KryoFlux", "text": "KryoFlux\n\nKryoFlux is a hardware and software solution for preserving software on floppy disks. It was developed by the Software Preservation Society.\n\nKryoFlux consists of a small hardware device, which is a software-programmable FDC system that runs on small ARM-based devices that connects to a floppy disk drive and a host PC over USB, and software for accessing the device. KryoFlux reads \"flux transitions\" from floppy disks at a very fine resolution. It can also read disks originally written with different bit cell widths and drive speeds, with a normal fixed-speed drive. The software is available for Microsoft Windows, Mac OS and Linux. The KryoFlux controller plugs into a standard USB port, and allows normal PC floppy disk drives to be plugged into it.\n\nBecause the device operates on data bits at the lowest possible level with very precise timing resolution, it allows modern PCs to read, decode and write floppy disks that use practically any data format or method of copy protection to aid in digital preservation. It has been tested successfully with many generations of floppy disk drive including 8\", 5.25\", 3.5\" and 3\" mechanisms, and dozens of disk formats including numerous schemes originally designed to prevent software piracy, allowing the preservation (typically to an image file stored on hard disk or other modern media) of programs and data that will inevitably succumb to data degradation as the original physical media deteriorates and becomes unreadable over time. The image files produced may be rewritten to fresh disk media or, more commonly, used with software emulations of the original systems.\n\nWhen reading old disks (especially those stored in non-climate controlled environments for long periods) there are a number of problems that can arise due including weakening of the magnetic field storing the data, deterioration of the binder holding the metal particles to the plastic disk surface, friction issues preventing the disk rotating freely in its outer protective sleeve, and issues caused by physical misalignment of the drive that originally wrote the disk or the one being used to read it. Users have detailed various techniques to aid in the recovery of data stored on such marginal disks.\n"}
{"id": "436554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=436554", "title": "Lamanai", "text": "Lamanai\n\nLamanai (from \"Lama'anayin\", \"submerged crocodile\" in Yucatec Maya) is a Mesoamerican archaeological site, and was once a major city of the Maya civilization, located in the north of Belize, in Orange Walk District. The site's name is pre-Columbian, recorded by early Spanish missionaries, and documented over a millennium earlier in Maya inscriptions as Lam'an'ain. Lamanai is renowned for its exceptionally long occupation spanning three millennia, beginning in the Early Preclassic Maya period and continuing through the Spanish and British Colonial periods, into the 20th century. Unlike most Classic-period sites in the southern Maya lowlands, Lamanai was not abandoned at the end of the 10th century AD.\n\nLamanai was occupied as early as the 16th century BC. The site became a prominent centre in the Pre-Classic Period, from the 4th century BC through the 1st century CE. In 625 CE, \"Stele 9\" was erected there in the Yucatec language of the Maya. Lamanai continued to be occupied up to the 17th century AD. During the Spanish conquest of Yucatán Spanish friars established two Roman Catholic churches here, but a Maya revolt drove the Spanish out. The site was subsequently incorporated by the British in British Honduras, passing with that colony's independence to Belize.\n\nThe vast majority of the site remained unexcavated until the mid-1970s. Archaeological work has concentrated on the investigation and restoration of the larger structures, most notably the Mask Temple, Jaguar Temple, and High Temple. The summit of this latter structure affords a view across the surrounding jungle to a nearby lagoon, part of New River.\n\nA significant portion of the Temple of the Jaguar Masks remains under grassy earth or is covered in dense jungle growth. Fully excavated, it would be significantly taller than the High Temple. In the jaguar temple there is a legend that you can find an ancient spear called the heart of the jaguar, even though the temple got his name from the jaguar masks on each side.\n\nThe Maya ruins of Lamanai once belonged to a sizable Mayan city in the Orange Walk District of Belize. \"Lamanai\" comes from the Maya term for \"submerged crocodile\", a nod to the toothy reptiles who live along the banks of the New River. Lamanai Belize jungle brims with exotic birds and hydrophilic iguanas. There is evidence on Mayan life that dates from about 1500 B.C. through Postclassic (A.D. 950-1544) and Spanish colonial times (A.D. 1544-1700) \n\nNearby ancient Mayan site of Chau Hiix presents evidence of a very long continuous occupation from Early Preclassic (ca 1200 BC) to Late Post Classic (ca 1600 AD). It lies between Lamanai and Altun Ha, another site further to the east.\n\nIt is positioned on Western Lagoon near its outlet into Spanish Creek. Chau Hiix is 15 km east of Lamanai, and is accessible by waterways travel. Altun Ha lies another 25 km further to the east. The material culture of Chau Hiix shows close ties with both Lamanai and Altun Ha, as well as evidence of interaction with centers in Petén Basin.\n\nThere are considerable ancient irrigation works at Chau Hiix, so it was probably an agricultural community supplying food for Lamanai.\n\nEarliest cultural activity at Chau Hiix has been traced to the early Middle Preclassic Swasey phase (ca 1000-500 BC)\n\nAmong the many important aspects of Postclassic and early Spanish colonial period Maya life at Lamanai is shown by the presence of significant numbers of copper artifacts. Copper indicates broader trade relations in the southern Maya lowlands, and as a reflection of technological change, the history of metal artifact use at Lamanai is an invaluable element in the reconstruction of Postclassic and early historical dynamics. The archaeological contexts of copper objects recovered at Lamanai beginning, with the appearance of metal at the site by around A.D. 1150.\n\nThe archaeological contexts in which copper objects have been recovered at the ancient Maya site of Lamanai in northern Belize have great significance in that these objects served great purpose for the residents of the community during Postclassic time that dates from A.D. 950-1544. Nearly all of the copper objects found at Lamanai are distinctly Mesoamerican in form and design and based on metallurgical analyses it appears that manufacturing technologies were distinctly Mesoamerican as well. The presence of production materials and mis-cast pieces along with the results of chemical compositional and micro structural analysis support the idea that the \nMayans at Lamanai were engaged in the on-site production of copper objects by late pre- Columbian times.(cite scott article). Objects are classified and examined in the contexts, forms, styles, uses, and sources of copper objects dating from the Buk ceramic phase, which coincides with the Early Postclassic period (A.D. 950-1200).\n\nThere were copper objects recovered at Lamanai beginning, with the appearance of metal at the site by around A.D. 1150. The term \"copper\" is used to describe the metal found at the site but, all of the copper artifacts found at Lamanai were alloyed with other metals such as tin or arsenic and could technically be considered bronze (Hosler 1994: 210-213).\n\nThe number and variety of copper objects recovered at Lamanai indicate that, as a new commodity with remarkably unique aural and visual properties, metal artifacts played an important role for at least some members of Postclassic and later contact period society. Masson notes that \"metal was probably the most highvalued luxury good in this region of the Postclassic Maya world\" (2003: 279). The inclusion of copper bells, elaborate rings, and button like ornaments in Early and Middle Postclassic elite burials shows that at least some residents of the site displayed such items in certain social and ritual settings. Copper bells worn during performances acted as auditory reminders of the high social standing of those who displayed them, and the lustrous copper finger rings and elaborate clothing ornaments served as visual indicators of elevated status.\n\nTrade was an essential component of Mesoamerican life in the Postclassic period and the Maya were active participants in a vast macro regional trade network. The movement of commodities as well as information and ideas into interior areas of the peninsula was facilitated by canoe travel along the coast and the extensive river systems in Belize. The importation of finished copper objects into the Maya area during Postclassic times was made possible by a vibrant, well-established exchange network that included Lamanai and a number of smaller Postclassic sites in northern Belize\n\nLamanai's key location on the New River Lagoon provided the site's inhabitants with access to a variety of Mesoamerican trade goods throughout of the site's 3500-year occupation. Copper objects such as bells, rings, and tweezers not only had great economic value but were also highly charged symbolic objects whose sounds and colors made them particularly important for use in ritual performances and as ornaments reflecting social status. More copper artifacts have been recovered at Lamanai than at any other site in the ancient Maya world. To date, a total of 187 copper artifacts have been excavated, including bells, rings, tweezers, various clothing ornaments, pins, axes, chisels, needles, and fish hooks.\n\nLamanai copper objects all were found associated with elite burials except for one object found in a cache and one found in a midden. Copper objects were found in six of the 97 burials excavated in these two structures.\n\nEvidence for onsite copper metallurgy at Lamanai consists of ingots, pigs, blanks, sheet pieces, mis-cast objects, and casting debris. Pigs are the product of pouring remainder metal from a cast out to cool; in contrast to ingots, pigs are usually not formed into standardized or even semi-standardized shapes or sizes.\nThe discussion of the forms and styles of copper artifacts from Lamanai follows Pendergast's (1962) typology of metal artifacts in Mesoamerica. This classification is based on the division of objects into one of three major functional categories: utilitarian objects, objects of personal adornment, and ceremonial objects Dating of these metal artifacts is based primarily on their association with stylistically diagnostic ceramic forms. (Pendergast 1962: 521).\n\nAt the site there is structure that dates back to AD 625. The Jaguar Temple, named for its boxy jaguar decoration; the Mask Temple, adorned by a 13-foot stone mask of an ancient Maya king; and the High Temple, offering visitors a panoramic view from its summit.\n\nThe most interesting features at the structure are two masks that decorate the west facade of the temple. The masks are on two levels on the south side of a central stairway, on the lower level the masks more than 15 feet high. It represents a rather humanized face and is bordered by decorative elements. The headdress of the mask represents a crocodile. These masks are construed of stone armature covered with thick stucco into which the details are carved. The masks date to the late fifth to the early sixth century. At Lamanai, ceremonialism was strongly developed, providing evidence of ruling authority with tight control over the populace.\n\nAt the large temple there was a single ball court, where an offering had been placed under its giant central marker. A lidded bowl contained 100g of crystalline hematite, 19 g of cinnabar in a miniature vessel, and other objects such as jade, shell, and pearl, all atop of a pool of mercury. Previously mercury had been found at Copan, Quirigua, and at Kaminaljuyo and lake Amtitlan, but not in such large quantity. This large amount of mercury found at the site of Lamanai had been probably collected for ritual use. Ceramics were also found at the site and gradually adopted new styles. Unfortunately, by the end of the Classic period, the norm here for burial custom was to smash vessels prior to interment. \n\nThe first detailed description of the ruins was made in 1917 by Thomas Gann. Archaeological excavations at the site began in 1974 under David M. Pendergast of the Royal Ontario Museum, which continued through 1988. Further excavations and restoration work is being conducted . The ruins are being excavated by a team from the nearby villages of Indian Church and San Carlos. The current project is co-directed by Dr. Elizabeth Graham (Institute of Archaeology, University College London) and Dr. Scott Simmons (University of North Carolina at Wilmington). Since 2006 research at the site has been directed mostly towards artifact analysis. Major excavations will resume when funding for more artifact processing, analyses and storage is acquired.\n\nLamanai is accessible to tourists by organized day boat trips from Orange Walk Town along the New River, or by dirt and gravel road through the Mennonite area of Shipyard. A small museum exhibits local artifacts and provides a historical overview. Tourist facilities and small shops are available.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17524", "title": "Language", "text": "Language\n\nLanguage is a system that consists of the development, acquisition, maintenance and use of complex systems of communication, particularly the human ability to do so; and a language is any specific example of such a system.\n\nThe scientific study of language is called linguistics. Questions concerning the philosophy of language, such as whether words can represent experience, have been debated at least since Gorgias and Plato in ancient Greece. Thinkers such as Rousseau have argued that language originated from emotions while others like Kant have held that it originated from rational and logical thought. 20th-century philosophers such as Wittgenstein argued that philosophy is really the study of language. Major figures in linguistics include Ferdinand de Saussure and Noam Chomsky.\n\nEstimates of the number of human languages in the world vary between 5,000 and 7,000. However, any precise estimate depends on a partly arbitrary distinction between languages and dialects. Natural languages are spoken or signed, but any language can be encoded into secondary media using auditory, visual, or tactile stimuli – for example, in whistling, signed, or braille. This is because human language is modality-independent. Depending on philosophical perspectives regarding the definition of language and meaning, when used as a general concept, \"language\" may refer to the cognitive ability to learn and use systems of complex communication, or to describe the set of rules that makes up these systems, or the set of utterances that can be produced from those rules. All languages rely on the process of semiosis to relate signs to particular meanings. Oral, manual and tactile languages contain a phonological system that governs how symbols are used to form sequences known as words or morphemes, and a syntactic system that governs how words and morphemes are combined to form phrases and utterances.\n\nHuman language has the properties of productivity and displacement, and relies entirely on social convention and learning. Its complex structure affords a much wider range of expressions than any known system of animal communication. Language is thought to have originated when early hominins started gradually changing their primate communication systems, acquiring the ability to form a theory of other minds and a shared intentionality. This development is sometimes thought to have coincided with an increase in brain volume, and many linguists see the structures of language as having evolved to serve specific communicative and social functions. Language is processed in many different locations in the human brain, but especially in Broca's and Wernicke's areas. Humans acquire language through social interaction in early childhood, and children generally speak fluently by approximately three years old. The use of language is deeply entrenched in human culture. Therefore, in addition to its strictly communicative uses, language also has many social and cultural uses, such as signifying group identity, social stratification, as well as social grooming and entertainment.\n\nLanguages evolve and diversify over time, and the history of their evolution can be reconstructed by comparing modern languages to determine which traits their ancestral languages must have had in order for the later developmental stages to occur. A group of languages that descend from a common ancestor is known as a language family. The Indo-European family is the most widely spoken and includes languages as diverse as English, Russian and Hindi; the Sino-Tibetan family includes Mandarin, Bodo and the other Chinese languages, and Tibetan; the Afro-Asiatic family includes Arabic, Somali, and Hebrew; the Bantu languages include Swahili, and Zulu, and hundreds of other languages spoken throughout Africa; and the Malayo-Polynesian languages include Indonesian, Malay, Tagalog, and hundreds of other languages spoken throughout the Pacific. The languages of the Dravidian family, spoken mostly in Southern India, include Tamil Telugu and Kannada. Academic consensus holds that between 50% and 90% of languages spoken at the beginning of the 21st century will probably have become extinct by the year 2100.\n\nThe English word \"language\" derives ultimately from Proto-Indo-European \"\" \"tongue, speech, language\" through Latin \"lingua\", \"language; tongue\", and Old French \"language\". The word is sometimes used to refer to codes, ciphers, and other kinds of artificially constructed communication systems such as formally defined computer languages used for computer programming. Unlike conventional human languages, a formal language in this sense is a system of signs for encoding and decoding information. This article specifically concerns the properties of natural human language as it is studied in the discipline of linguistics.\n\nAs an object of linguistic study, \"language\" has two primary meanings: an abstract concept, and a specific linguistic system, e.g. \"French\". The Swiss linguist Ferdinand de Saussure, who defined the modern discipline of linguistics, first explicitly formulated the distinction using the French word \"langage\" for language as a concept, \"langue\" as a specific instance of a language system, and \"parole\" for the concrete usage of speech in a particular language.\n\nWhen speaking of language as a general concept, definitions can be used which stress different aspects of the phenomenon. These definitions also entail different approaches and understandings of language, and they also inform different and often incompatible schools of linguistic theory. Debates about the nature and origin of language go back to the ancient world. Greek philosophers such as Gorgias and Plato debated the relation between words, concepts and reality. Gorgias argued that language could represent neither the objective experience nor human experience, and that communication and truth were therefore impossible. Plato maintained that communication is possible because language represents ideas and concepts that exist independently of, and prior to, language.\n\nDuring the Enlightenment and its debates about human origins, it became fashionable to speculate about the origin of language. Thinkers such as Rousseau and Herder argued that language had originated in the instinctive expression of emotions, and that it was originally closer to music and poetry than to the logical expression of rational thought. Rationalist philosophers such as Kant and Descartes held the opposite view. Around the turn of the 20th century, thinkers began to wonder about the role of language in shaping our experiences of the world – asking whether language simply reflects the objective structure of the world, or whether it creates concepts that it in turn imposes on our experience of the objective world. This led to the question of whether philosophical problems are really firstly linguistic problems. The resurgence of the view that language plays a significant role in the creation and circulation of concepts, and that the study of philosophy is essentially the study of language, is associated with what has been called the linguistic turn and philosophers such as Wittgenstein in 20th-century philosophy. These debates about language in relation to meaning and reference, cognition and consciousness remain active today.\n\nOne definition sees language primarily as the mental faculty that allows humans to undertake linguistic behaviour: to learn languages and to produce and understand utterances. This definition stresses the universality of language to all humans, and it emphasizes the biological basis for the human capacity for language as a unique development of the human brain. Proponents of the view that the drive to language acquisition is innate in humans argue that this is supported by the fact that all cognitively normal children raised in an environment where language is accessible will acquire language without formal instruction. Languages may even develop spontaneously in environments where people live or grow up together without a common language; for example, creole languages and spontaneously developed sign languages such as Nicaraguan Sign Language. This view, which can be traced back to the philosophers Kant and Descartes, understands language to be largely innate, for example, in Chomsky's theory of Universal Grammar, or American philosopher Jerry Fodor's extreme innatist theory. These kinds of definitions are often applied in studies of language within a cognitive science framework and in neurolinguistics.\n\nAnother definition sees language as a formal system of signs governed by grammatical rules of combination to communicate meaning. This definition stresses that human languages can be described as closed structural systems consisting of rules that relate particular signs to particular meanings. This structuralist view of language was first introduced by Ferdinand de Saussure, and his structuralism remains foundational for many approaches to language.\n\nSome proponents of Saussure's view of language have advocated a formal approach which studies language structure by identifying its basic elements and then by presenting a formal account of the rules according to which the elements combine in order to form words and sentences. The main proponent of such a theory is Noam Chomsky, the originator of the generative theory of grammar, who has defined language as the construction of sentences that can be generated using transformational grammars. Chomsky considers these rules to be an innate feature of the human mind and to constitute the rudiments of what language is. By way of contrast, such transformational grammars are also commonly used to provide formal definitions of language are commonly used in formal logic, in formal theories of grammar, and in applied computational linguistics. In the philosophy of language, the view of linguistic meaning as residing in the logical relations between propositions and reality was developed by philosophers such as Alfred Tarski, Bertrand Russell, and other formal logicians.\n\nYet another definition sees language as a system of communication that enables humans to exchange verbal or symbolic utterances. This definition stresses the social functions of language and the fact that humans use it to express themselves and to manipulate objects in their environment. Functional theories of grammar explain grammatical structures by their communicative functions, and understand the grammatical structures of language to be the result of an adaptive process by which grammar was \"tailored\" to serve the communicative needs of its users.\n\nThis view of language is associated with the study of language in pragmatic, cognitive, and interactive frameworks, as well as in sociolinguistics and linguistic anthropology. Functionalist theories tend to study grammar as dynamic phenomena, as structures that are always in the process of changing as they are employed by their speakers. This view places importance on the study of linguistic typology, or the classification of languages according to structural features, as it can be shown that processes of grammaticalization tend to follow trajectories that are partly dependent on typology. In the philosophy of language, the view of pragmatics as being central to language and meaning is often associated with Wittgenstein's later works and with ordinary language philosophers such as J.L. Austin, Paul Grice, John Searle, and W.O. Quine.\n\nA number of features, many of which were described by Charles Hockett and called design features set human language apart from other known systems of communication, such as those used by non-human animals.\n\nCommunication systems used by other animals such as bees or apes are closed systems that consist of a finite, usually very limited, number of possible ideas that can be expressed. In contrast, human language is open-ended and productive, meaning that it allows humans to produce a vast range of utterances from a finite set of elements, and to create new words and sentences. This is possible because human language is based on a dual code, in which a finite number of elements which are meaningless in themselves (e.g. sounds, letters or gestures) can be combined to form an infinite number of larger units of meaning (words and sentences). However, one study has demonstrated that an Australian bird, the chestnut-crowned babbler, is capable of using the same acoustic elements in different arrangements to create two functionally distinct vocalizations. Additionally, pied babblers have demonstrated the ability to generate two functionally distinct vocalisations composed of the same sound type, which can only be distinguished by the number of repeated elements.\n\nSeveral species of animals have proved to be able to acquire forms of communication through social learning: for instance a bonobo named Kanzi learned to express itself using a set of symbolic lexigrams. Similarly, many species of birds and whales learn their songs by imitating other members of their species. However, while some animals may acquire large numbers of words and symbols, none have been able to learn as many different signs as are generally known by an average 4 year old human, nor have any acquired anything resembling the complex grammar of human language.\n\nHuman languages also differ from animal communication systems in that they employ grammatical and semantic categories, such as noun and verb, present and past, which may be used to express exceedingly complex meanings. Human language is also unique in having the property of recursivity: for example, a noun phrase can contain another noun phrase (as in \"<nowiki>the chimpanzee]'s lips]</nowiki>\") or a clause can contain another clause (as in \"<nowiki>[I see [the dog is running</nowiki>\"). Human language is also the only known natural communication system whose adaptability may be referred to as \"modality independent\". This means that it can be used not only for communication through one channel or medium, but through several. For example, spoken language uses the auditive modality, whereas sign languages and writing use the visual modality, and braille writing uses the tactile modality.\n\nHuman language is also unique in being able to refer to abstract concepts and to imagined or hypothetical events as well as events that took place in the past or may happen in the future. This ability to refer to events that are not at the same time or place as the speech event is called \"displacement\", and while some animal communication systems can use displacement (such as the communication of bees that can communicate the location of sources of nectar that are out of sight), the degree to which it is used in human language is also considered unique.\n\nTheories about the origin of language differ in regard to their basic assumptions about what language is. Some theories are based on the idea that language is so complex that one cannot imagine it simply appearing from nothing in its final form, but that it must have evolved from earlier pre-linguistic systems among our pre-human ancestors. These theories can be called continuity-based theories. The opposite viewpoint is that language is such a unique human trait that it cannot be compared to anything found among non-humans and that it must therefore have appeared suddenly in the transition from pre-hominids to early man. These theories can be defined as discontinuity-based. Similarly, theories based on the generative view of language pioneered by Noam Chomsky see language mostly as an innate faculty that is largely genetically encoded, whereas functionalist theories see it as a system that is largely cultural, learned through social interaction.\n\nChomsky is one prominent proponent of a discontinuity-based theory of human language origins. He suggests that for scholars interested in the nature of language, \"talk about the evolution of the language capacity is beside the point.\" Chomsky proposes that perhaps \"some random mutation took place [...] and it reorganized the brain, implanting a language organ in an otherwise primate brain.\" Though cautioning against taking this story literally, Chomsky insists that \"it may be closer to reality than many other fairy tales that are told about evolutionary processes, including language.\"\n\nContinuity-based theories are held by a majority of scholars, but they vary in how they envision this development. Those who see language as being mostly innate, for example psychologist Steven Pinker, hold the precedents to be animal cognition, whereas those who see language as a socially learned tool of communication, such as psychologist Michael Tomasello, see it as having developed from animal communication in primates: either gestural or vocal communication to assist in cooperation. Other continuity-based models see language as having developed from music, a view already espoused by Rousseau, Herder, Humboldt, and Charles Darwin. A prominent proponent of this view is archaeologist Steven Mithen. Stephen Anderson states that the age of spoken languages is estimated at 60,000 to 100,000 years and that: Researchers on the evolutionary origin of language generally find it plausible to suggest that language was invented only once, and that all modern spoken languages are thus in some way related, even if that relation can no longer be recovered ... because of limitations on the methods available for reconstruction.\n\nBecause language emerged in the early prehistory of man, before the existence of any written records, its early development has left no historical traces, and it is believed that no comparable processes can be observed today. Theories that stress continuity often look at animals to see if, for example, primates display any traits that can be seen as analogous to what pre-human language must have been like. And early human fossils can be inspected for traces of physical adaptation to language use or pre-linguistic forms of symbolic behaviour. Among the signs in human fossils that may suggest linguistic abilities are: the size of the brain relative to body mass, the presence of a larynx capable of advanced sound production and the nature of tools and other manufactured artifacts.\n\nIt was mostly undisputed that pre-human australopithecines did not have communication systems significantly different from those found in great apes in general. However, a 2017 study on Ardipithecus ramidus challenges this belief. Scholarly opinions vary as to the developments since the appearance of the genus \"Homo\" some 2.5 million years ago. Some scholars assume the development of primitive language-like systems (proto-language) as early as \"Homo habilis\" (2.3 million years ago) while others place the development of primitive symbolic communication only with \"Homo erectus\" (1.8 million years ago) or \"Homo heidelbergensis\" (0.6 million years ago), and the development of language proper with Anatomically Modern \"Homo sapiens\" with the Upper Paleolithic revolution less than 100,000 years ago.\n\nThe study of language, linguistics, has been developing into a science since the first grammatical descriptions of particular languages in India more than 2000 years ago, after the development of the Brahmi script. Modern linguistics is a science that concerns itself with all aspects of language, examining it from all of the theoretical viewpoints described above.\n\nThe academic study of language is conducted within many different disciplinary areas and from different theoretical angles, all of which inform modern approaches to linguistics. For example, descriptive linguistics examines the grammar of single languages, theoretical linguistics develops theories on how best to conceptualize and define the nature of language based on data from the various extant human languages, sociolinguistics studies how languages are used for social purposes informing in turn the study of the social functions of language and grammatical description, neurolinguistics studies how language is processed in the human brain and allows the experimental testing of theories, computational linguistics builds on theoretical and descriptive linguistics to construct computational models of language often aimed at processing natural language or at testing linguistic hypotheses, and historical linguistics relies on grammatical and lexical descriptions of languages to trace their individual histories and reconstruct trees of language families by using the comparative method.\n\nThe formal study of language is often considered to have started in India with Pāṇini, the 5th century BC grammarian who formulated 3,959 rules of Sanskrit morphology. However, Sumerian scribes already studied the differences between Sumerian and Akkadian grammar around 1900 BC. Subsequent grammatical traditions developed in all of the ancient cultures that adopted writing.\n\nIn the 17th century AD, the French Port-Royal Grammarians developed the idea that the grammars of all languages were a reflection of the universal basics of thought, and therefore that grammar was universal. In the 18th century, the first use of the comparative method by British philologist and expert on ancient India William Jones sparked the rise of comparative linguistics. The scientific study of language was broadened from Indo-European to language in general by Wilhelm von Humboldt. Early in the 20th century, Ferdinand de Saussure introduced the idea of language as a static system of interconnected units, defined through the oppositions between them.\n\nBy introducing a distinction between diachronic and synchronic analyses of language, he laid the foundation of the modern discipline of linguistics. Saussure also introduced several basic dimensions of linguistic analysis that are still fundamental in many contemporary linguistic theories, such as the distinctions between syntagm and paradigm, and the Langue-parole distinction, distinguishing language as an abstract system (\"langue\"), from language as a concrete manifestation of this system (\"parole\").\n\nIn the 1960s, Noam Chomsky formulated the generative theory of language. According to this theory, the most basic form of language is a set of syntactic rules that is universal for all humans and which underlies the grammars of all human languages. This set of rules is called Universal Grammar; for Chomsky, describing it is the primary objective of the discipline of linguistics. Thus, he considered that the grammars of individual languages are only of importance to linguistics insofar as they allow us to deduce the universal underlying rules from which the observable linguistic variability is generated.\n\nIn opposition to the formal theories of the generative school, functional theories of language propose that since language is fundamentally a tool, its structures are best analyzed and understood by reference to their functions. Formal theories of grammar seek to define the different elements of language and describe the way they relate to each other as systems of formal rules or operations, while functional theories seek to define the functions performed by language and then relate them to the linguistic elements that carry them out. The framework of cognitive linguistics interprets language in terms of the concepts (which are sometimes universal, and sometimes specific to a particular language) which underlie its forms. Cognitive linguistics is primarily concerned with how the mind creates meaning through language.\n\nSpeaking is the default modality for language in all cultures. The production of spoken language depends on sophisticated capacities for controlling the lips, tongue and other components of the vocal apparatus, the ability to acoustically decode speech sounds, and the neurological apparatus required for acquiring and producing language. The study of the genetic bases for human language is at an early stage: the only gene that has definitely been implicated in language production is FOXP2, which may cause a kind of congenital language disorder if affected by mutations.\n\n The brain is the coordinating center of all linguistic activity; it controls both the production of linguistic cognition and of meaning and the mechanics of speech production. Nonetheless, our knowledge of the neurological bases for language is quite limited, though it has advanced considerably with the use of modern imaging techniques. The discipline of linguistics dedicated to studying the neurological aspects of language is called neurolinguistics.\n\nEarly work in neurolinguistics involved the study of language in people with brain lesions, to see how lesions in specific areas affect language and speech. In this way, neuroscientists in the 19th century discovered that two areas in the brain are crucially implicated in language processing. The first area is Wernicke's area, which is in the posterior section of the superior temporal gyrus in the dominant cerebral hemisphere. People with a lesion in this area of the brain develop receptive aphasia, a condition in which there is a major impairment of language comprehension, while speech retains a natural-sounding rhythm and a relatively normal sentence structure. The second area is Broca's area, in the posterior inferior frontal gyrus of the dominant hemisphere. People with a lesion to this area develop expressive aphasia, meaning that they know what they want to say, they just cannot get it out. They are typically able to understand what is being said to them, but unable to speak fluently. Other symptoms that may be present in expressive aphasia include problems with fluency, articulation, word-finding, word repetition, and producing and comprehending complex grammatical sentences, both orally and in writing. Those with this aphasia also exhibit ungrammatical speech and show inability to use syntactic information to determine the meaning of sentences. Both expressive and receptive aphasia also affect the use of sign language, in analogous ways to how they affect speech, with expressive aphasia causing signers to sign slowly and with incorrect grammar, whereas a signer with receptive aphasia will sign fluently, but make little sense to others and have difficulties comprehending others' signs. This shows that the impairment is specific to the ability to use language, not to the physiology used for speech production.\n\nWith technological advances in the late 20th century, neurolinguists have also incorporated non-invasive techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and electrophysiology to study language processing in individuals without impairments.\n\nSpoken language relies on human physical ability to produce sound, which is a longitudinal wave propagated through the air at a frequency capable of vibrating the ear drum. This ability depends on the physiology of the human speech organs. These organs consist of the lungs, the voice box (larynx), and the upper vocal tract – the throat, the mouth, and the nose. By controlling the different parts of the speech apparatus, the airstream can be manipulated to produce different speech sounds.\n\nThe sound of speech can be analyzed into a combination of segmental and suprasegmental elements. The segmental elements are those that follow each other in sequences, which are usually represented by distinct letters in alphabetic scripts, such as the Roman script. In free flowing speech, there are no clear boundaries between one segment and the next, nor usually are there any audible pauses between words. Segments therefore are distinguished by their distinct sounds which are a result of their different articulations, and they can be either vowels or consonants. Suprasegmental phenomena encompass such elements as stress, phonation type, voice timbre, and prosody or intonation, all of which may have effects across multiple segments.\n\nConsonants and vowel segments combine to form syllables, which in turn combine to form utterances; these can be distinguished phonetically as the space between two inhalations. Acoustically, these different segments are characterized by different formant structures, that are visible in a spectrogram of the recorded sound wave (See illustration of Spectrogram of the formant structures of three English vowels). Formants are the amplitude peaks in the frequency spectrum of a specific sound.\n\nVowels are those sounds that have no audible friction caused by the narrowing or obstruction of some part of the upper vocal tract. They vary in quality according to the degree of lip aperture and the placement of the tongue within the oral cavity. Vowels are called \"close\" when the lips are relatively closed, as in the pronunciation of the vowel (English \"ee\"), or \"open\" when the lips are relatively open, as in the vowel (English \"ah\"). If the tongue is located towards the back of the mouth, the quality changes, creating vowels such as (English \"oo\"). The quality also changes depending on whether the lips are rounded as opposed to unrounded, creating distinctions such as that between (unrounded front vowel such as English \"ee\") and (rounded front vowel such as German \"ü\").\n\nConsonants are those sounds that have audible friction or closure at some point within the upper vocal tract. Consonant sounds vary by place of articulation, i.e. the place in the vocal tract where the airflow is obstructed, commonly at the lips, teeth, alveolar ridge, palate, velum, uvula, or glottis. Each place of articulation produces a different set of consonant sounds, which are further distinguished by manner of articulation, or the kind of friction, whether full closure, in which case the consonant is called \"occlusive\" or \"stop\", or different degrees of aperture creating \"fricatives\" and \"approximants\". Consonants can also be either \"voiced or unvoiced\", depending on whether the vocal cords are set in vibration by airflow during the production of the sound. Voicing is what separates English in \"bus\" (unvoiced sibilant) from in \"buzz\" (voiced sibilant).\n\nSome speech sounds, both vowels and consonants, involve release of air flow through the nasal cavity, and these are called \"nasals\" or \"nasalized\" sounds. Other sounds are defined by the way the tongue moves within the mouth: such as the l-sounds (called \"laterals\", because the air flows along both sides of the tongue), and the r-sounds (called \"rhotics\") that are characterized by how the tongue is positioned relative to the air stream.\n\nBy using these speech organs, humans can produce hundreds of distinct sounds: some appear very often in the world's languages, whereas others are much more common in certain language families, language areas, or even specific to a single language.\n\nWhen described as a system of symbolic communication, language is traditionally seen as consisting of three parts: signs, meanings, and a code connecting signs with their meanings. The study of the process of semiosis, how signs and meanings are combined, used, and interpreted is called semiotics. Signs can be composed of sounds, gestures, letters, or symbols, depending on whether the language is spoken, signed, or written, and they can be combined into complex signs, such as words and phrases. When used in communication, a sign is encoded and transmitted by a sender through a channel to a receiver who decodes it.\nSome of the properties that define human language as opposed to other communication systems are: the arbitrariness of the linguistic sign, meaning that there is no predictable connection between a linguistic sign and its meaning; the duality of the linguistic system, meaning that linguistic structures are built by combining elements into larger structures that can be seen as layered, e.g. how sounds build words and words build phrases; the discreteness of the elements of language, meaning that the elements out of which linguistic signs are constructed are discrete units, e.g. sounds and words, that can be distinguished from each other and rearranged in different patterns; and the productivity of the linguistic system, meaning that the finite number of linguistic elements can be combined into a theoretically infinite number of combinations.\n\nThe rules by which signs can be combined to form words and phrases are called syntax or grammar. The meaning that is connected to individual signs, morphemes, words, phrases, and texts is called semantics. The division of language into separate but connected systems of sign and meaning goes back to the first linguistic studies of de Saussure and is now used in almost all branches of linguistics.\n\nLanguages express meaning by relating a sign form to a meaning, or its content. Sign forms must be something that can be perceived, for example, in sounds, images, or gestures, and then related to a specific meaning by social convention. Because the basic relation of meaning for most linguistic signs is based on social convention, linguistic signs can be considered arbitrary, in the sense that the convention is established socially and historically, rather than by means of a natural relation between a specific sign form and its meaning.\n\nThus, languages must have a vocabulary of signs related to specific meaning. The English sign \"dog\" denotes, for example, a member of the species \"Canis familiaris\". In a language, the array of arbitrary signs connected to specific meanings is called the lexicon, and a single sign connected to a meaning is called a lexeme. Not all meanings in a language are represented by single words. Often, semantic concepts are embedded in the morphology or syntax of the language in the form of grammatical categories.\n\nAll languages contain the semantic structure of predication: a structure that predicates a property, state, or action. Traditionally, semantics has been understood to be the study of how speakers and interpreters assign truth values to statements, so that meaning is understood to be the process by which a predicate can be said to be true or false about an entity, e.g. \"<nowiki>[x [is y]]\" or \"[x [does y]]</nowiki>\". Recently, this model of semantics has been complemented with more dynamic models of meaning that incorporate shared knowledge about the context in which a sign is interpreted into the production of meaning. Such models of meaning are explored in the field of pragmatics.\n\nDepending on modality, language structure can be based on systems of sounds (speech), gestures (sign languages), or graphic or tactile symbols (writing). The ways in which languages use sounds or signs to construct meaning are studied in phonology. The study of how humans produce and perceive vocal sounds is called phonetics. In spoken language, meaning is produced when sounds become part of a system in which some sounds can contribute to expressing meaning and others do not. In any given language, only a limited number of the many distinct sounds that can be created by the human vocal apparatus contribute to constructing meaning.\n\nSounds as part of a linguistic system are called phonemes. Phonemes are abstract units of sound, defined as the smallest units in a language that can serve to distinguish between the meaning of a pair of minimally different words, a so-called minimal pair. In English, for example, the words \"bat\" and \"pat\" form a minimal pair, in which the distinction between and differentiates the two words, which have different meanings. However, each language contrasts sounds in different ways. For example, in a language that does not distinguish between voiced and unvoiced consonants, the sounds and (if they both occur) could be considered a single phoneme, and consequently, the two pronunciations would have the same meaning. Similarly, the English language does not distinguish phonemically between aspirated and non-aspirated pronunciations of consonants, as many other languages like Korean and Hindi do: the unaspirated in \"spin\" and the aspirated in \"pin\" are considered to be merely different ways of pronouncing the same phoneme (such variants of a single phoneme are called allophones), whereas in Mandarin Chinese, the same difference in pronunciation distinguishes between the words 'crouch' and 'eight' (the accent above the á means that the vowel is pronounced with a high tone).\n\nAll spoken languages have phonemes of at least two different categories, vowels and consonants, that can be combined to form syllables. As well as segments such as consonants and vowels, some languages also use sound in other ways to convey meaning. Many languages, for example, use stress, pitch, duration, and tone to distinguish meaning. Because these phenomena operate outside of the level of single segments, they are called suprasegmental. Some languages have only a few phonemes, for example, Rotokas and Pirahã language with 11 and 10 phonemes respectively, whereas languages like Taa may have as many as 141 phonemes. In sign languages, the equivalent to phonemes (formerly called cheremes) are defined by the basic elements of gestures, such as hand shape, orientation, location, and motion, which correspond to manners of articulation in spoken language.\n\nWriting systems represent language using visual symbols, which may or may not correspond to the sounds of spoken language. The Latin alphabet (and those on which it is based or that have been derived from it) was originally based on the representation of single sounds, so that words were constructed from letters that generally denote a single consonant or vowel in the structure of the word. In syllabic scripts, such as the Inuktitut syllabary, each sign represents a whole syllable. In logographic scripts, each sign represents an entire word, and will generally bear no relation to the sound of that word in spoken language.\n\nBecause all languages have a very large number of words, no purely logographic scripts are known to exist. Written language represents the way spoken sounds and words follow one after another by arranging symbols according to a pattern that follows a certain direction. The direction used in a writing system is entirely arbitrary and established by convention. Some writing systems use the horizontal axis (left to right as the Latin script or right to left as the Arabic script), while others such as traditional Chinese writing use the vertical dimension (from top to bottom). A few writing systems use opposite directions for alternating lines, and others, such as the ancient Maya script, can be written in either direction and rely on graphic cues to show the reader the direction of reading.\n\nIn order to represent the sounds of the world's languages in writing, linguists have developed the International Phonetic Alphabet, designed to represent all of the discrete sounds that are known to contribute to meaning in human languages.\n\nGrammar is the study of how meaningful elements called \"morphemes\" within a language can be combined into utterances. Morphemes can either be \"free\" or \"bound\". If they are free to be moved around within an utterance, they are usually called \"words\", and if they are bound to other words or morphemes, they are called affixes. The way in which meaningful elements can be combined within a language is governed by rules. The rules for the internal structure of words are called morphology. The rules of the internal structure of phrases and sentences are called \"syntax\".\n\nGrammar can be described as a system of categories and a set of rules that determine how categories combine to form different aspects of meaning. Languages differ widely in whether they are encoded through the use of categories or lexical units. However, several categories are so common as to be nearly universal. Such universal categories include the encoding of the grammatical relations of participants and predicates by grammatically distinguishing between their relations to a predicate, the encoding of temporal and spatial relations on predicates, and a system of grammatical person governing reference to and distinction between speakers and addressees and those about whom they are speaking.\n\nLanguages organize their parts of speech into classes according to their functions and positions relative to other parts. All languages, for instance, make a basic distinction between a group of words that prototypically denotes things and concepts and a group of words that prototypically denotes actions and events. The first group, which includes English words such as \"dog\" and \"song\", are usually called nouns. The second, which includes \"run\" and \"sing\", are called verbs. Another common category is the adjective: words that describe properties or qualities of nouns, such as \"red\" or \"big\". Word classes can be \"open\" if new words can continuously be added to the class, or relatively \"closed\" if there is a fixed number of words in a class. In English, the class of pronouns is closed, whereas the class of adjectives is open, since an infinite number of adjectives can be constructed from verbs (e.g. \"saddened\") or nouns (e.g. with the -like suffix, as in \"noun-like\"). In other languages such as Korean, the situation is the opposite, and new pronouns can be constructed, whereas the number of adjectives is fixed.\n\nWord classes also carry out differing functions in grammar. Prototypically, verbs are used to construct predicates, while nouns are used as arguments of predicates. In a sentence such as \"Sally runs\", the predicate is \"runs\", because it is the word that predicates a specific state about its argument \"Sally\". Some verbs such as \"curse\" can take two arguments, e.g. \"Sally cursed John\". A predicate that can only take a single argument is called \"intransitive\", while a predicate that can take two arguments is called \"transitive\".\n\nMany other word classes exist in different languages, such as conjunctions like \"and\" that serve to join two sentences, articles that introduce a noun, interjections such as \"wow!\", or ideophones like \"splash\" that mimic the sound of some event. Some languages have positionals that describe the spatial position of an event or entity. Many languages have classifiers that identify countable nouns as belonging to a particular type or having a particular shape. For instance, in Japanese, the general noun classifier for humans is \"nin\" (人), and it is used for counting humans, whatever they are called:\n\nFor trees, it would be:\n\nIn linguistics, the study of the internal structure of complex words and the processes by which words are formed is called morphology. In most languages, it is possible to construct complex words that are built of several morphemes. For instance, the English word \"unexpected\" can be analyzed as being composed of the three morphemes \"un-\", \"expect\" and \"-ed\".\n\nMorphemes can be classified according to whether they are independent morphemes, so-called roots, or whether they can only co-occur attached to other morphemes. These bound morphemes or affixes can be classified according to their position in relation to the root: \"prefixes\" precede the root, suffixes follow the root, and infixes are inserted in the middle of a root. Affixes serve to modify or elaborate the meaning of the root. Some languages change the meaning of words by changing the phonological structure of a word, for example, the English word \"run\", which in the past tense is \"ran\". This process is called \"ablaut\". Furthermore, morphology distinguishes between the process of inflection, which modifies or elaborates on a word, and the process of derivation, which creates a new word from an existing one. In English, the verb \"sing\" has the inflectional forms \"singing\" and \"sung\", which are both verbs, and the derivational form \"singer\", which is a noun derived from the verb with the agentive suffix \"-er\".\n\nLanguages differ widely in how much they rely on morphological processes of word formation. In some languages, for example, Chinese, there are no morphological processes, and all grammatical information is encoded syntactically by forming strings of single words. This type of morpho-syntax is often called isolating, or analytic, because there is almost a full correspondence between a single word and a single aspect of meaning. Most languages have words consisting of several morphemes, but they vary in the degree to which morphemes are discrete units. In many languages, notably in most Indo-European languages, single morphemes may have several distinct meanings that cannot be analyzed into smaller segments. For example, in Latin, the word \"bonus\", or \"good\", consists of the root \"bon-\", meaning \"good\", and the suffix -\"us\", which indicates masculine gender, singular number, and nominative case. These languages are called \"fusional languages\", because several meanings may be fused into a single morpheme. The opposite of fusional languages are agglutinative languages which construct words by stringing morphemes together in chains, but with each morpheme as a discrete semantic unit. An example of such a language is Turkish, where for example, the word \"evlerinizden\", or \"from your houses\", consists of the morphemes, \"ev-ler-iniz-den\" with the meanings \"house-plural-your-from\". The languages that rely on morphology to the greatest extent are traditionally called polysynthetic languages. They may express the equivalent of an entire English sentence in a single word. For example, in Persian the single word \"nafahmidamesh\" means \"I didn't understand it\" consisting of morphemes \"na-fahm-id-am-esh\" with the meanings, \"negation.understand.past.I.it\". As another example with more complexity, in the Yupik word \"tuntussuqatarniksatengqiggtuq\", which means \"He had not yet said again that he was going to hunt reindeer\", the word consists of the morphemes \"tuntu-ssur-qatar-ni-ksaite-ngqiggte-uq\" with the meanings, \"reindeer-hunt-future-say-negation-again-third.person.singular.indicative\", and except for the morpheme \"tuntu\" (\"reindeer\") none of the other morphemes can appear in isolation.\n\nMany languages use morphology to cross-reference words within a sentence. This is sometimes called \"agreement\". For example, in many Indo-European languages, adjectives must cross-reference the noun they modify in terms of number, case, and gender, so that the Latin adjective \"bonus\", or \"good\", is inflected to agree with a noun that is masculine gender, singular number, and nominative case. In many polysynthetic languages, verbs cross-reference their subjects and objects. In these types of languages, a single verb may include information that would require an entire sentence in English. For example, in the Basque phrase \"ikusi nauzu\", or \"you saw me\", the past tense auxiliary verb \"n-au-zu\" (similar to English \"do\") agrees with both the subject (you) expressed by the \"n\"- prefix, and with the object (me) expressed by the – \"zu\" suffix. The sentence could be directly transliterated as \"see you-did-me\"\n\nAnother way in which languages convey meaning is through the order of words within a sentence. The grammatical rules for how to produce new sentences from words that are already known is called syntax. The syntactical rules of a language determine why a sentence in English such as \"I love you\" is meaningful, but \"*love you I\" is not. Syntactical rules determine how word order and sentence structure is constrained, and how those constraints contribute to meaning. For example, in English, the two sentences \"the slaves were cursing the master\" and \"the master was cursing the slaves\" mean different things, because the role of the grammatical subject is encoded by the noun being in front of the verb, and the role of object is encoded by the noun appearing after the verb. Conversely, in Latin, both \"Dominus servos vituperabat\" and \"Servos vituperabat dominus\" mean \"the master was reprimanding the slaves\", because \"servos\", or \"slaves\", is in the accusative case, showing that they are the grammatical object of the sentence, and \"dominus\", or \"master\", is in the nominative case, showing that he is the subject.\n\nLatin uses morphology to express the distinction between subject and object, whereas English uses word order. Another example of how syntactic rules contribute to meaning is the rule of inverse word order in questions, which exists in many languages. This rule explains why when in English, the phrase \"John is talking to Lucy\" is turned into a question, it becomes \"Who is John talking to?\", and not \"John is talking to who?\". The latter example may be used as a way of placing special emphasis on \"who\", thereby slightly altering the meaning of the question. Syntax also includes the rules for how complex sentences are structured by grouping words together in units, called phrases, that can occupy different places in a larger syntactic structure. Sentences can be described as consisting of phrases connected in a tree structure, connecting the phrases to each other at different levels. To the right is a graphic representation of the syntactic analysis of the English sentence \"the cat sat on the mat\". The sentence is analyzed as being constituted by a noun phrase, a verb, and a prepositional phrase; the prepositional phrase is further divided into a preposition and a noun phrase, and the noun phrases consist of an article and a noun.\n\nThe reason sentences can be seen as being composed of phrases is because each phrase would be moved around as a single element if syntactic operations were carried out. For example, \"the cat\" is one phrase, and \"on the mat\" is another, because they would be treated as single units if a decision was made to emphasize the location by moving forward the prepositional phrase: \"[And] on the mat, the cat sat\". There are many different formalist and functionalist frameworks that propose theories for describing syntactic structures, based on different assumptions about what language is and how it should be described. Each of them would analyze a sentence such as this in a different manner.\n\nLanguages can be classified in relation to their grammatical types. Languages that belong to different families nonetheless often have features in common, and these shared features tend to correlate. For example, languages can be classified on the basis of their basic word order, the relative order of the verb, and its constituents in a normal indicative sentence. In English, the basic order is SVO: \"The snake(S) bit(V) the man(O)\", whereas for example, the corresponding sentence in the Australian language Gamilaraay would be \"d̪uyugu n̪ama d̪ayn yiːy\" (snake man bit), SOV. Word order type is relevant as a typological parameter, because basic word order type corresponds with other syntactic parameters, such as the relative order of nouns and adjectives, or of the use of prepositions or postpositions. Such correlations are called implicational universals. For example, most (but not all) languages that are of the SOV type have postpositions rather than prepositions, and have adjectives before nouns.\n\nAll languages structure sentences into Subject, Verb, and Object, but languages differ in the way they classify the relations between actors and actions. English uses the nominative-accusative word typology: in English transitive clauses, the subjects of both intransitive sentences (\"I run\") and transitive sentences (\"I love you\") are treated in the same way, shown here by the nominative pronoun \"I\". Some languages, called ergative, Gamilaraay among them, distinguish instead between Agents and Patients. In ergative languages, the single participant in an intransitive sentence, such as \"I run\", is treated the same as the patient in a transitive sentence, giving the equivalent of \"me run\". Only in transitive sentences would the equivalent of the pronoun \"I\" be used. In this way the semantic roles can map onto the grammatical relations in different ways, grouping an intransitive subject either with Agents (accusative type) or Patients (ergative type) or even making each of the three roles differently, which is called the tripartite type.\n\nThe shared features of languages which belong to the same typological class type may have arisen completely independently. Their co-occurrence might be due to universal laws governing the structure of natural languages, \"language universals\", or they might be the result of languages evolving convergent solutions to the recurring communicative problems that humans use language to solve.\n\nWhile humans have the ability to learn any language, they only do so if they grow up in an environment in which language exists and is used by others. Language is therefore dependent on communities of speakers in which children learn language from their elders and peers and themselves transmit language to their own children. Languages are used by those who speak them to communicate and to solve a plethora of social tasks. Many aspects of language use can be seen to be adapted specifically to these purposes. Due to the way in which language is transmitted between generations and within communities, language perpetually changes, diversifying into new languages or converging due to language contact. The process is similar to the process of evolution, where the process of descent with modification leads to the formation of a phylogenetic tree.\n\nHowever, languages differ from biological organisms in that they readily incorporate elements from other languages through the process of diffusion, as speakers of different languages come into contact. Humans also frequently speak more than one language, acquiring their first language or languages as children, or learning new languages as they grow up. Because of the increased language contact in the globalizing world, many small languages are becoming endangered as their speakers shift to other languages that afford the possibility to participate in larger and more influential speech communities.\n\nThe semantic study of meaning assumes that meaning is in a relation between signs and meanings that are firmly established through social convention. However, semantics does not study the way in which social conventions are made and affect language. Rather, when studying the way in which words and signs are used, it is often the case that words have different meanings, depending on the social context of use. An important example of this is the process called deixis, which describes the way in which certain words refer to entities through their relation between a specific point in time and space when the word is uttered. Such words are, for example, the word, \"I\" (which designates the person speaking), \"now\" (which designates the moment of speaking), and \"here\" (which designates the position of speaking). Signs also change their meanings over time, as the conventions governing their usage gradually change. The study of how the meaning of linguistic expressions changes depending on context is called pragmatics. Deixis is an important part of the way that we use language to point out entities in the world. Pragmatics is concerned with the ways in which language use is patterned and how these patterns contribute to meaning. For example, in all languages, linguistic expressions can be used not just to transmit information, but to perform actions. Certain actions are made only through language, but nonetheless have tangible effects, e.g. the act of \"naming\", which creates a new name for some entity, or the act of \"pronouncing someone man and wife\", which creates a social contract of marriage. These types of acts are called speech acts, although they can also be carried out through writing or hand signing.\n\nThe form of linguistic expression often does not correspond to the meaning that it actually has in a social context. For example, if at a dinner table a person asks, \"Can you reach the salt?\", that is, in fact, not a question about the length of the arms of the one being addressed, but a request to pass the salt across the table. This meaning is implied by the context in which it is spoken; these kinds of effects of meaning are called conversational implicatures. These social rules for which ways of using language are considered appropriate in certain situations and how utterances are to be understood in relation to their context vary between communities, and learning them is a large part of acquiring communicative competence in a language.\n\nAll healthy, normally developing human beings learn to use language. Children acquire the language or languages used around them: whichever languages they receive sufficient exposure to during childhood. The development is essentially the same for children acquiring sign or oral languages. This learning process is referred to as first-language acquisition, since unlike many other kinds of learning, it requires no direct teaching or specialized study. In \"The Descent of Man\", naturalist Charles Darwin called this process \"an instinctive tendency to acquire an art\".\n\nFirst language acquisition proceeds in a fairly regular sequence, though there is a wide degree of variation in the timing of particular stages among normally developing infants. From birth, newborns respond more readily to human speech than to other sounds. Around one month of age, babies appear to be able to distinguish between different speech sounds. Around six months of age, a child will begin babbling, producing the speech sounds or handshapes of the languages used around them. Words appear around the age of 12 to 18 months; the average vocabulary of an eighteen-month-old child is around 50 words. A child's first utterances are holophrases (literally \"whole-sentences\"), utterances that use just one word to communicate some idea. Several months after a child begins producing words, he or she will produce two-word utterances, and within a few more months will begin to produce telegraphic speech, or short sentences that are less grammatically complex than adult speech, but that do show regular syntactic structure. From roughly the age of three to five years, a child's ability to speak or sign is refined to the point that it resembles adult language. Studies published in 2013 have indicated that unborn fetuses are capable of language acquisition to some degree.\n\nAcquisition of second and additional languages can come at any age, through exposure in daily life or courses. Children learning a second language are more likely to achieve native-like fluency than adults, but in general, it is very rare for someone speaking a second language to pass completely for a native speaker. An important difference between first language acquisition and additional language acquisition is that the process of additional language acquisition is influenced by languages that the learner already knows.\n\nLanguages, understood as the particular set of speech norms of a particular community, are also a part of the larger culture of the community that speaks them. Languages differ not only in pronunciation, vocabulary, and grammar, but also through having different \"cultures of speaking.\" Humans use language as a way of signalling identity with one cultural group as well as difference from others. Even among speakers of one language, several different ways of using the language exist, and each is used to signal affiliation with particular subgroups within a larger culture. Linguists and anthropologists, particularly sociolinguists, ethnolinguists, and linguistic anthropologists have specialized in studying how ways of speaking vary between speech communities.\n\nLinguists use the term \"varieties\" to refer to the different ways of speaking a language. This term includes geographically or socioculturally defined dialects as well as the jargons or styles of subcultures. Linguistic anthropologists and sociologists of language define communicative style as the ways that language is used and understood within a particular culture.\n\nBecause norms for language use are shared by members of a specific group, communicative style also becomes a way of displaying and constructing group identity. Linguistic differences may become salient markers of divisions between social groups, for example, speaking a language with a particular accent may imply membership of an ethnic minority or social class, one's area of origin, or status as a second language speaker. These kinds of differences are not part of the linguistic system, but are an important part of how people use language as a social tool for constructing groups.\n\nHowever, many languages also have grammatical conventions that signal the social position of the speaker in relation to others through the use of registers that are related to social hierarchies or divisions. In many languages, there are stylistic or even grammatical differences between the ways men and women speak, between age groups, or between social classes, just as some languages employ different words depending on who is listening. For example, in the Australian language Dyirbal, a married man must use a special set of words to refer to everyday items when speaking in the presence of his mother-in-law. Some cultures, for example, have elaborate systems of \"social deixis\", or systems of signalling social distance through linguistic means. In English, social deixis is shown mostly through distinguishing between addressing some people by first name and others by surname, and in titles such as \"Mrs.\", \"boy\", \"Doctor\", or \"Your Honor\", but in other languages, such systems may be highly complex and codified in the entire grammar and vocabulary of the language. For instance, in languages of east Asia such as Thai, Burmese, and Javanese, different words are used according to whether a speaker is addressing someone of higher or lower rank than oneself in a ranking system with animals and children ranking the lowest and gods and members of royalty as the highest.\n\nThroughout history a number of different ways of representing language in graphic media have been invented. These are called writing systems.\n\nThe use of writing has made language even more useful to humans. It makes it possible to store large amounts of information outside of the human body and retrieve it again, and it allows communication across distances that would otherwise be impossible. Many languages conventionally employ different genres, styles, and registers in written and spoken language, and in some communities, writing traditionally takes place in an entirely different language than the one spoken. There is some evidence that the use of writing also has effects on the cognitive development of humans, perhaps because acquiring literacy generally requires explicit and formal education.\n\nThe invention of the first writing systems is roughly contemporary with the beginning of the Bronze Age in the late 4th millennium BC. The Sumerian archaic cuneiform script and the Egyptian hieroglyphs are generally considered to be the earliest writing systems, both emerging out of their ancestral proto-literate symbol systems from 3400–3200 BC with the earliest coherent texts from about 2600 BC. It is generally agreed that Sumerian writing was an independent invention; however, it is debated whether Egyptian writing was developed completely independently of Sumerian, or was a case of cultural diffusion. A similar debate exists for the Chinese script, which developed around 1200 BC. The pre-Columbian Mesoamerican writing systems (including among others Olmec and Maya scripts) are generally believed to have had independent origins.\n\nAll languages change as speakers adopt or invent new ways of speaking and pass them on to other members of their speech community. Language change happens at all levels from the phonological level to the levels of vocabulary, morphology, syntax, and discourse. Even though language change is often initially evaluated negatively by speakers of the language who often consider changes to be \"decay\" or a sign of slipping norms of language usage, it is natural and inevitable.\n\nChanges may affect specific sounds or the entire phonological system. Sound change can consist of the replacement of one speech sound or phonetic feature by another, the complete loss of the affected sound, or even the introduction of a new sound in a place where there had been none. Sound changes can be \"conditioned\" in which case a sound is changed only if it occurs in the vicinity of certain other sounds. Sound change is usually assumed to be \"regular\", which means that it is expected to apply mechanically whenever its structural conditions are met, irrespective of any non-phonological factors. On the other hand, sound changes can sometimes be \"sporadic\", affecting only one particular word or a few words, without any seeming regularity. Sometimes a simple change triggers a chain shift in which the entire phonological system is affected. This happened in the Germanic languages when the sound change known as Grimm's law affected all the stop consonants in the system. The original consonant * became /b/ in the Germanic languages, the previous * in turn became /p/, and the previous * became /f/. The same process applied to all stop consonants and explains why Italic languages such as Latin have \"p\" in words like pater\" and pisces\", whereas Germanic languages, like English, have father\" and fish\".\n\nAnother example is the Great Vowel Shift in English, which is the reason that the spelling of English vowels do not correspond well to their current pronunciation. This is because the vowel shift brought the already established orthography out of synchronization with pronunciation. Another source of sound change is the erosion of words as pronunciation gradually becomes increasingly indistinct and shortens words, leaving out syllables or sounds. This kind of change caused Latin \"mea domina\" to eventually become the French \"madame\" and American English \"ma'am\".\n\nChange also happens in the grammar of languages as discourse patterns such as idioms or particular constructions become grammaticalized. This frequently happens when words or morphemes erode and the grammatical system is unconsciously rearranged to compensate for the lost element. For example, in some varieties of Caribbean Spanish the final /s/ has eroded away. Since Standard Spanish uses final /s/ in the morpheme marking the second person subject \"you\" in verbs, the Caribbean varieties now have to express the second person using the pronoun \"tú\". This means that the sentence \"what's your name\" is \"¿como te llamas?\" in Standard Spanish, but in Caribbean Spanish. The simple sound change has affected both morphology and syntax. Another common cause of grammatical change is the gradual petrification of idioms into new grammatical forms, for example, the way the English \"going to\" construction lost its aspect of movement and in some varieties of English has almost become a full-fledged future tense (e.g. \"I'm gonna\").\n\nLanguage change may be motivated by \"language internal\" factors, such as changes in pronunciation motivated by certain sounds being difficult to distinguish aurally or to produce, or through patterns of change that cause some rare types of constructions to drift towards more common types. Other causes of language change are social, such as when certain pronunciations become emblematic of membership in certain groups, such as social classes, or with ideologies, and therefore are adopted by those who wish to identify with those groups or ideas. In this way, issues of identity and politics can have profound effects on language structure.\n\nOne important source of language change is contact and resulting diffusion of linguistic traits between languages. Language contact occurs when speakers of two or more languages or varieties interact on a regular basis. Multilingualism is likely to have been the norm throughout human history and most people in the modern world are multilingual. Before the rise of the concept of the ethno-national state, monolingualism was characteristic mainly of populations inhabiting small islands. But with the ideology that made one people, one state, and one language the most desirable political arrangement, monolingualism started to spread throughout the world. Nonetheless, there are only 250 countries in the world corresponding to some 6000 languages, which means that most countries are multilingual and most languages therefore exist in close contact with other languages.\n\nWhen speakers of different languages interact closely, it is typical for their languages to influence each other. Through sustained language contact over long periods, linguistic traits diffuse between languages, and languages belonging to different families may converge to become more similar. In areas where many languages are in close contact, this may lead to the formation of language areas in which unrelated languages share a number of linguistic features. A number of such language areas have been documented, among them, the Balkan language area, the Mesoamerican language area, and the Ethiopian language area. Also, larger areas such as South Asia, Europe, and Southeast Asia have sometimes been considered language areas, because of widespread diffusion of specific areal features.\n\nLanguage contact may also lead to a variety of other linguistic phenomena, including language convergence, borrowing, and relexification (replacement of much of the native vocabulary with that of another language). In situations of extreme and sustained language contact, it may lead to the formation of new mixed languages that cannot be considered to belong to a single language family. One type of mixed language called pidgins occurs when adult speakers of two different languages interact on a regular basis, but in a situation where neither group learns to speak the language of the other group fluently. In such a case, they will often construct a communication form that has traits of both languages, but which has a simplified grammatical and phonological structure. The language comes to contain mostly the grammatical and phonological categories that exist in both languages. Pidgin languages are defined by not having any native speakers, but only being spoken by people who have another language as their first language. But if a Pidgin language becomes the main language of a speech community, then eventually children will grow up learning the pidgin as their first language. As the generation of child learners grow up, the pidgin will often be seen to change its structure and acquire a greater degree of complexity. This type of language is generally called a creole language. An example of such mixed languages is Tok Pisin, the official language of Papua New-Guinea, which originally arose as a Pidgin based on English and Austronesian languages; others are Kreyòl ayisyen, the French-based creole language spoken in Haiti, and Michif, a mixed language of Canada, based on the Native American language Cree and French.\n\n\"SIL Ethnologue\" defines a \"living language\" as \"one that has at least one speaker for whom it is their first language\". The exact number of known living languages varies from 6,000 to 7,000, depending on the precision of one's definition of \"language\", and in particular, on how one defines the distinction between languages and dialects. As of 2016, \"Ethnologue\" cataloged 7,097 living human languages. The \"Ethnologue\" establishes linguistic groups based on studies of mutual intelligibility, and therefore often includes more categories than more conservative classifications. For example, the Danish language that most scholars consider a single language with several dialects is classified as two distinct languages (Danish and Jutish) by the \"Ethnologue\".\n\nAccording to the \"Ethnologue\", 389 languages (nearly 6%) have more than a million speakers. These languages together account for 94% of the world's population, whereas 94% of the world's languages account for the remaining 6% of the global population. To the right is a table of the world's 10 most spoken languages with population estimates from the \"Ethnologue\" (2009 figures).\n\nThere is no clear distinction between a language and a dialect, notwithstanding a famous aphorism attributed to linguist Max Weinreich that \"a language is a dialect with an army and navy\". For example, national boundaries frequently override linguistic difference in determining whether two linguistic varieties are languages or dialects. Hakka, Cantonese and Mandarin are, for example, often classified as \"dialects\" of Chinese, even though they are more different from each other than Swedish is from Norwegian. Before the Yugoslav civil war, Serbo-Croatian was considered a single language with two dialects, but now Croatian and Serbian are considered different languages and employ different writing systems. In other words, the distinction may hinge on political considerations as much as on cultural differences, distinctive writing systems, or degree of mutual intelligibility.\n\nThe world's languages can be grouped into language families consisting of languages that can be shown to have common ancestry. Linguists recognize many hundreds of language families, although some of them can possibly be grouped into larger units as more evidence becomes available and in-depth studies are carried out. At present, there are also dozens of language isolates: languages that cannot be shown to be related to any other languages in the world. Among them are Basque, spoken in Europe, Zuni of New Mexico, Purépecha of Mexico, Ainu of Japan, Burushaski of Pakistan, and many others.\n\nThe language family of the world that has the most speakers is the Indo-European languages, spoken by 46% of the world's population. This family includes major world languages like English, Spanish, Russian, and Hindustani (Hindi/Urdu). The Indo-European family achieved prevalence first during the Eurasian Migration Period (c. 400–800 AD), and subsequently through the European colonial expansion, which brought the Indo-European languages to a politically and often numerically dominant position in the Americas and much of Africa. The Sino-Tibetan languages are spoken by 20% of the world's population and include many of the languages of East Asia, including Hakka, Mandarin Chinese, Cantonese, and hundreds of smaller languages.\n\nAfrica is home to a large number of language families, the largest of which is the Niger-Congo language family, which includes such languages as Swahili, Shona, and Yoruba. Speakers of the Niger-Congo languages account for 6.9% of the world's population. A similar number of people speak the Afroasiatic languages, which include the populous Semitic languages such as Arabic, Hebrew language, and the languages of the Sahara region, such as the Berber languages and Hausa.\n\nThe Austronesian languages are spoken by 5.5% of the world's population and stretch from Madagascar to maritime Southeast Asia all the way to Oceania. It includes such languages as Malagasy, Māori, Samoan, and many of the indigenous languages of Indonesia and Taiwan. The Austronesian languages are considered to have originated in Taiwan around 3000 BC and spread through the Oceanic region through island-hopping, based on an advanced nautical technology. Other populous language families are the Dravidian languages of South Asia (among them Kannada Tamil and Telugu), the Turkic languages of Central Asia (such as Turkish), the Austroasiatic (among them Khmer), and Tai–Kadai languages of Southeast Asia (including Thai).\n\nThe areas of the world in which there is the greatest linguistic diversity, such as the Americas, Papua New Guinea, West Africa, and South-Asia, contain hundreds of small language families. These areas together account for the majority of the world's languages, though not the majority of speakers. In the Americas, some of the largest language families include the Quechumaran, Arawak, and Tupi-Guarani families of South America, the Uto-Aztecan, Oto-Manguean, and Mayan of Mesoamerica, and the Na-Dene, Iroquoian, and Algonquian language families of North America. In Australia, most indigenous languages belong to the Pama-Nyungan family, whereas New Guinea is home to a large number of small families and isolates, as well as a number of Austronesian languages.\n\nLanguage endangerment occurs when a language is at risk of falling out of use as its speakers die out or shift to speaking another language. Language loss occurs when the language has no more native speakers, and becomes a \"dead language\". If eventually no one speaks the language at all, it becomes an \"extinct language\". While languages have always gone extinct throughout human history, they have been disappearing at an accelerated rate in the 20th and 21st centuries due to the processes of globalization and neo-colonialism, where the economically powerful languages dominate other languages.\n\nThe more commonly spoken languages dominate the less commonly spoken languages, so the less commonly spoken languages eventually disappear from populations. The total number of languages in the world is not known. Estimates vary depending on many factors. The consensus is that there are between 6,000 and 7,000 languages spoken as of 2010, and that between 50–90% of those will have become extinct by the year 2100. The top 20 languages, those spoken by more than 50 million speakers each, are spoken by 50% of the world's population, whereas many of the other languages are spoken by small communities, most of them with less than 10,000 speakers.\n\nThe United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) operates with five levels of language endangerment: \"safe\", \"vulnerable\" (not spoken by children outside the home), \"definitely endangered\" (not spoken by children), \"severely endangered\" (only spoken by the oldest generations), and \"critically endangered\" (spoken by few members of the oldest generation, often semi-speakers). Notwithstanding claims that the world would be better off if most adopted a single common \"lingua franca\", such as English or Esperanto, there is a consensus that the loss of languages harms the cultural diversity of the world. It is a common belief, going back to the biblical narrative of the tower of Babel in the Old Testament, that linguistic diversity causes political conflict, but this is contradicted by the fact that many of the world's major episodes of violence have taken place in situations with low linguistic diversity, such as the Yugoslav and American Civil War, or the genocide of Rwanda, whereas many of the most stable political units have been highly multilingual.\n\nMany projects aim to prevent or slow this loss by revitalizing endangered languages and promoting education and literacy in minority languages. Across the world, many countries have enacted specific legislation to protect and stabilize the language of indigenous speech communities. A minority of linguists have argued that language loss is a natural process that should not be counteracted, and that documenting endangered languages for posterity is sufficient.\n\n"}
{"id": "13053597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13053597", "title": "Lars Vilks Muhammad drawings controversy", "text": "Lars Vilks Muhammad drawings controversy\n\nThe Lars Vilks Muhammad drawings controversy began in July 2007 with a series of drawings by Swedish artist Lars Vilks that depicted the Islamic prophet Muhammad as a roundabout dog (a form of street installation in Sweden). Several art galleries in Sweden declined to show the drawings, citing security concerns and fear of violence. The controversy gained international attention after the Örebro-based regional newspaper \"Nerikes Allehanda\" published one of the drawings on 18 August as part of an editorial on self-censorship and freedom of religion.\n\nWhile several other leading Swedish newspapers had published the drawings already, this particular publication led to protests from Muslims in Sweden as well as official condemnations from several foreign governments including Iran, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Egypt, and Jordan, as well as by the inter-governmental Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC). The controversy occurred about a year and a half after the \"Jyllands-Posten\" Muhammad cartoons controversy in Denmark in early 2006.\n\nOn 11 June 2007, Vilks was invited to participate in an art exhibition on the theme \"The Dog in Art\" () that was to be held in the small town of Tällerud in Värmland. Vilks submitted three pen and ink drawings on A4 paper depicting Muhammad as a roundabout dog. At this time, Vilks was already participating with drawings of Muhammad in another exhibition in Vestfossen, Norway, on the theme \"Oh, My God\". Vilks, who is a known proponent of institutional art, has stated that his original intention with the drawings was to \"examine the political correctness within the boundaries of the art community\". According to Vilks, the art and culture communities in Sweden repeatedly criticize the United States and Israel, whereas Muslim values are rarely even questioned.\n\nOn 20 July, the day before the opening of the exhibition in Tällerud, the organizers decided to withdraw Vilks's drawings from the exhibition due to security concerns and fear of violence from Islamic extremists (\"see Islam and blasphemy and Islam and animals\"). Märta Wennerström, the exhibition's organizer, said that at first she \"didn't realize the gravity of the situation\" and that she made the decision to remove the drawings after consulting Swedish government agencies and private persons.\n\nFollowing the first refusal to publish the drawings, Vilks submitted his drawings to the Gerlesborg School of Fine Art in Bohuslän (where he is a frequent lecturer) for a special teachers' exhibition that was going to be opened on 18 August. On 13 August, however, the school announced that they also had decided to reject the drawings due to security concerns. This second rejection started an intense debate in the Swedish media about self-censorship and freedom of expression.\n\nOn 18 August, the Örebro-based regional newspaper \"Nerikes Allehanda\" published one of Vilks's drawings in an editorial on freedom of expression. The editorial defended \"Muslims' right to freedom of religion\" but also said it must be permitted to \"ridicule Islam's most foremost symbols — just like all other religions' symbols.\" On the same day, the drawings were also published in several other Swedish newspapers including \"Aftonbladet\", \"Dagens Nyheter\", \"Expressen\" and \"Upsala Nya Tidning\".\n\nOn 27 August, the Swedish \"chargé d'affaires\" in Tehran, Gunilla von Bahr, was summoned to the Iranian foreign ministry where she received a protest from the Iranian government against the publication in \"Nerikes Allehanda\". On 28 August the President of Iran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, commented on the drawings during a press conference. He was quoted by the Islamic Republic News Agency as saying: \"Religions call for friendship, equality, justice, peace and respect for divine prophets. The Zionists only pretend to believe in religion. They are telling lies. They are perpetrating oppression against the Europeans and putting at risk the prestige of Europe.\" \n\nOn 30 August, the Swedish \"chargé d'affaires\" in Islamabad, Lennart Holst, was summoned to the Pakistani Ministry of Foreign Affairs to receive a similar protest from the Pakistani government. The Pakistani Ministry of Foreign Affairs later issued a statement where it condemned the publication \"in the strongest terms\".\n\nOn the same day the Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC), an inter-governmental organization which represents 57 Muslim countries, issued a statement where it strongly condemned the publishing of blasphemous caricatures of Muhammad by Swedish artist Lars Vilks in the \"Nerikes Allehanda\" newspaper. The secretary-general of OIC, Ekmeleddin İhsanoğlu, further called on the Swedish government to take \"immediate punitive actions against the artist and the publishers of the cartoon and asked for their unqualified apology\".\n\nOn 31 August, supporters from Islamic parties in Pakistan burned the Swedish flag in the city of Lahore. In Karachi, others torched an effigy of the Swedish Prime Minister to protest the cartoon.\n\nOn 1 September, the Afghan newspaper \"Kabul Times\" published a statement by religious scholars, imams and the Afghan Ministry of Islamic Guidance. The statement said that \"The sold-out enemies of Islam draw the cartoon of the respected Prophet of Islam once more. This has disturbed the Islamic world and aroused the indignation of all Muslims\". The statement demanded those responsible be handed over to a court for prosecution and punishment.\n\nOn 3 September, the Egyptian Ministry of Religious Endowments condemned the publication, saying that \"such an irresponsible act is not conducive to friendly ties between the Islamic world and the west\". On the same day, also the Jordanian government condemned the publication. A spokesperson for the government said that \"The publication of this cartoon, which seeks to attack the character of the Prophet Mohammed, is unacceptable, rejected and condemned\".\n\nOn 25 August, a group of about 60 Muslims held a demonstration outside \"Nerikes Allehanda\"'s office in Örebro to protest against the publication.\n\nOn 31 August, Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt commented on the issue and said: \"I think it's important to say two things. First, we are eager to ensure that Sweden remains a country in which Muslims and Christians, people who believe in God and people who don't believe in God, can live side by side in a spirit of mutual respect [...] We are also eager to stand up for freedom of expression, which is enshrined in the constitution and comes naturally to us, and which ensures that we do not make political decisions about what gets published in the newspapers. I want to make sure we keep things that way.\" The same day, around 300 demonstrators – led by the Islamic Cultural Centre in Örebro – assembled outside the offices of \"Nerikes Allehanda\" to protest against the newspaper's publication.\n\nOn 7 September, Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt met with ambassadors from 22 Muslim countries to discuss the issue. Reinfeldt said that he had \"explained how Swedish society works and that we don't have elected representatives making editorial decisions\", adding that \"this is an open country, a tolerant country\". Prior to the meeting, Egyptian ambassador Mohamed Sotouhi said, according to the news agency TT, that he and a group of fellow ambassadors had agreed on a list of measures that Sweden needed to take and to present it to the Prime Minister. \"We want to see action, not just nice words. We have to push for a change in the law\", he said.\n\nAfter the meeting however, Reinfeldt denied that any such list had been presented to him. According to the Syrian Arab News Agency, a statement had been delivered from the Swedish embassy in Damascus to Syria's Grand Mufti Ahmad Bader Hassoun in which Reinfeldt \"expressed his regret of the incident which has offended and upset Muslims, calling against instigating or offending other religions\". The Swedish government has not commented on this statement.\nAlso on 7 September, a group of about 550 Muslims gathered outside the offices of the newspaper \"Upsala Nya Tidning\" in Uppsala, to protest against the newspaper's publication of the cartoons.\n\nFollowing the publication in \"Nerikes Allehanda\", the Swedish police raised the security level around the newspaper's headquarters and some of its employees have been forced to use bodyguards after receiving death threats. Vilks himself has also received several death threats. One Muslim woman in western Sweden has been arrested on charges of issuing a death threat () against Vilks in an e-mail. The woman confirmed in police interrogation that she had written the mail and said that she did not have any regrets about it. On 6 September, one actual roundabout dog created by Vilks and local children was set alight as an apparent threat.\n\nOn 15 September, it was reported that the group Islamic State of Iraq had placed a bounty of at least $100,000 on the head of Lars Vilks and 50,000 dollars on Ulf Johansson, editor-in-chief of \"Nerikes Allehanda\". The statement was found in an audio file on an Islamist website and was read by a person who identified himself as Abu Omar al-Baghdadi, the purported head of the Islamic State of Iraq. \"We announce a reward of $100,000 to anyone who kills this infidel criminal. This reward will be raised to $150,000 if he is slaughtered like a lamb,\" the statement said. The statement also threatened attacks on Swedish companies unless unspecified \"crusaders\" issued an apology. Vilks responded to the statement by saying: \"I suppose this makes my art project a bit more serious. It's also good to know how much one is worth\".\n\nThe United States-based SITE Institute has reported that websites run by militant Islamists have listed the names of over 100 Swedish companies with addresses, maps and logos. The websites called for their readers to boycott these firms and \"take revenge\" on Sweden for the publication of the drawings.\n\nThe European Council for Fatwa and Research (ECFR) and the Federation of Islamic Organizations in Europe (FIOE) both condemned the death threats against Vilks and Johansson. ECFR also said it planned to issue a \"counter fatwa\" against the threats.\n\nThe World Association of Newspapers (WAN), which represents over 18,000 newspapers around the world, issued a statement where it condemned the death threats and expressed support for \"Nerikes Allehanda\" in its right to publish the drawing.\n\nOn 9 March 2010, seven people were arrested in the Republic of Ireland over an alleged plot to assassinate Vilks. The arrested were originally from Morocco and Yemen and had refugee status. Of the seven, three men and two women were arrested in Waterford and Tramore and another man and woman at Ballincollig, near Cork. Garda Síochána (the Irish police force), which conducted the arrests with support from the counter-terror Special Detective Unit and the National Support Services, said the suspects range in age from mid 20s to late 40s. They (Garda Síochána) also added that throughout the investigation they had been \"working closely with law enforcement agencies in the United States and in a number of European countries\".\n\nThe same day, Colleen R. LaRose from the Philadelphia, US, suburbs, had her federal indictment unsealed charging her with trying to recruit Islamic terrorists to murder Vilks.\n\nAn emailed threat sent to a news agency and to the Swedish Security Service occurred made reference to this incident. Afterwards, two bombs exploded, injuring two people and killing the would-be attacker.\n\nAt the time of the December 2010 terror arrests, Lars Vilks' home page was subject to a hacker attack. According to Vilks' blog, the hacker declared the attacks would be continued with no end and that the targets are Vilks, Kurt Westergaard, and Geert Wilders.\n\nIn 2013, cartoonist Stéphane \"Charb\" Charbonnier was added to Al-Qaeda's most wanted list, along with Lars Vilks and three \"Jyllands-Posten\" staff members: Kurt Westergaard, Carsten Juste, and Flemming Rose.\n\nOn 14 February 2015, shots were fired at a public meeting in Denmark attended by Vilks, leaving one civilian dead and three policemen wounded. The attacker fled after a brief gunfight with police and was later shot dead the next day after committing another shooting at a Jewish synagogue, killing one person and injuring two policemen.\n"}
{"id": "31970867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31970867", "title": "Leif Stenberg", "text": "Leif Stenberg\n\nLeif Stenberg (Ph.D) is the Director of the Institute for the Study of Muslim Civilisations at the Aga Khan University (International) in London. He is the former director of the Center for Middle Eastern Studies at Lund University. Leif Stenberg received his B.A degree from Lund University in 1987 and wrote his doctoral thesis on the Islamization of science, supervised by Jan Hjärpe, in 1996. Stenberg's work has been influenced by both Jan Hjärpe and Michel Foucault, which is apparent in his doctoral thesis, where Foucauldian concepts and definitions are used. His interests also include contemporary Sufism, which he has been actively researching since the mid-1990s.\n\nIn 2009 Stenberg criticised the \"Rosengårdsrapporten\" report by security expert Magnus Ranstorp which contained assertions that there was a growing jihadist movement in the Rosengård suburb in Malmö as being \"full of prejudice\" and lacking academic depth. This criticism turned into controversy when it in 2016 turned out that terrorist Osama Krayem had grown up in the area.\n\nStenberg has both contributed and appeared in several national media-outlets in Sweden such as Dagens Nyheter, Svenska Dagbladet and Swedish Radio channel P1. Leif Stenberg has been increasingly sought after for comments in wake of the Arab Spring, commenting on the Muslim Brotherhood in Dagens Nyheter. He also contributed during the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy. Stenberg has also appeared on live television commenting on the roots and developments of the Arab Spring.\n\nStenberg has published numerous articles and books during his professional career, many of his publications can be found listed at the Lund University publication database\n\n"}
{"id": "39136264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39136264", "title": "List of genocides by death toll", "text": "List of genocides by death toll\n\nThis list of genocides by death toll includes death toll estimates of all deaths that are either directly or indirectly caused by genocide. It does not include non strictly-genocidal mass killing (variously called mass murder, crimes against humanity, politicide, policide, classicide, war crimes) such as the Thirty Years War (7.5 million deaths), Japanese war crimes (3 to 14 million deaths), the Red Terror (100,000 to 1.3 million deaths), the Atrocities in the Congo Free State (1 to 15 million deaths), the Great Purge (0.6 to 1.75 million death), or the Great Leap Forward (15 to 55 million deaths).\n\nThe United Nations Genocide Convention defines genocide as \"acts committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group\". Various other definitions can be found in scholarly literature and national law of different countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32306879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32306879", "title": "Marimba Ani", "text": "Marimba Ani\n\nMarimba Ani (born Dona Richards) is an anthropologist and African Studies scholar best known for her work \"Yurugu\", a comprehensive critique of European thought and culture, and her coining of the term \"Maafa\" for the African holocaust.\n\nMarimba Ani completed her BA degree at the University of Chicago, and holds MA and Ph.D. degrees in anthropology from the Graduate Faculty of the New School University. In 1964, during Freedom Summer, she served as an SNCC field secretary, and married civil-rights activist Robert Parris Moses; they divorced in 1966. She has taught as a Professor of African Studies in the Department of Black and Puerto Rican Studies at Hunter College in New York City, and is credited with introducing the term Maafa to describe the African holocaust.\n\nAni's 1994 work, \"Yurugu: An Afrikan-Centered Critique of European Cultural Thought and Behavior\", examined the influence of European culture on the formation of modern institutional frameworks, through colonialism and imperialism, from an African perspective. Described by the author as an \"intentionally aggressive polemic\", the book derives its title from a Dogon legend of an incomplete and destructive being rejected by its creator.\n\nExamining the causes of global white supremacy, Ani argued that European thought implicitly believes in its own superiority, stating: \"European culture is unique in the assertion of political interest\".\n\nIn \"Yurugu\", Ani proposed a tripartite conceptualization of culture, based on the concepts of \n\nThe terms Ani uses in this framework are based on Swahili. \"Asili\" is a common Swahili word meaning \"origin\" or \"essence\"; \"utamawazo\" and \"utamaroho\" are neologisms created by Ani, based on the Swahili words \"utamaduni\" (\"civilisation\"), \"wazo\" (\"thought\") and \"roho\" (\"spirit life\"). The \"utamawazo\" and \"utamaroho\" are not viewed as separate from the \"asili\", but as its manifestations, which are \"born out of the \"asili\" and, in turn, affirm it.\"\n\nAni characterised the \"asili\" of European culture as dominated by the concepts of separation and control, with separation establishing dichotomies like \"man\" and \"nature\", \"the European\" and \"the other\", \"thought\" and \"emotion\" – separations that in effect end up negating the existence of \"the other\", who or which becomes subservient to the needs of (European) man. Control is disguised in universalism as in reality \"the use of abstract 'universal' formulations in the European experience has been to control people, to impress them, and to intimidate them.\"\n\nAccording to Ani's model, the \"utamawazo\" of European culture \"is structured by ideology and bio-cultural experience\", and its \"utamaroho\" or vital force is domination, reflected in all European-based structures and the imposition of Western values and civilisation on peoples around the world, destroying cultures and languages in the name of progress.\n\nThe book also addresses the use of the term Maafa, based on a Swahili word meaning \"great disaster\", to describe slavery. African-centered thinkers have subsequently popularized and expanded on Ani's conceptualization. Citing both the centuries-long history of slavery and more recent examples like the Tuskegee study, Ani argued that Europeans and white \"Americans\" have an \"enormous capacity for the perpetration of physical violence against other cultures\" that had resulted in \"antihuman, genocidal\" treatment of blacks.\n\nPhilip Higgs, in \"African Voices in Education\", describes \"Yurugu\" as an \"excellent delineation of the ethics of harmonious coexistence between human beings\", but cites the book's \"overlooking of structures of social inequality and conflict that one finds in all societies, including indigenous ones,\" as a weakness. Molefi Kete Asante describes \"Yurugu\" as an \"elegant work\". Stephen Howe accuses Ani of having little interest in actual Africa (beyond romance) and challenges her critique of \"Eurocentric\" logic, since she invests heavily in its usage in the book.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2281366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2281366", "title": "Mischief rule", "text": "Mischief rule\n\nThe mischief rule is one of three rules of statutory interpretation traditionally applied by English courts. The other two are the \"plain meaning rule\" (also known as the \"literal rule\") and the \"golden rule\".\n\nThe main aim of the rule is to determine the \"mischief and defect\" that the statute in question has set out to remedy, and what ruling would effectively implement this remedy. In applying the mischief rule, the court is essentially asking what part of the law did the law not cover, but was meant to be rectified by Parliament in passing the bill.\n\nThe rule was first laid out in a 16th-century ruling of the Exchequer Court.\n\n\"Conway v Rimmer\" is a rule of construction that judges can apply in statutory interpretation in order to discover Parliament's intention. In applying the rule, the court is essentially asking what the mischief was that the previous law did not cover, which Parliament was seeking to remedy when it passed the law now being reviewed by the court.\n\nThe mischief rule is of narrower application than the golden rule or the plain meaning rule, in that it can only be used to interpret a statute and, strictly speaking, only when the statute was passed to remedy a defect in the common law.\n\nLegislative intent is determined by examining secondary sources, such as committee reports, treatises, law review articles and corresponding statutes.\n\nThe application of this rule gives the judge more discretion than the literal and the golden rule as it allows him to effectively decide on Parliament's intent. It can be argued that this undermines Parliament's supremacy and is undemocratic as it takes law-making decisions away from the legislature.\n\nThe way in which the mischief rule can produce more sensible outcomes than those that would result if the literal rule were applied is illustrated by the ruling in \"Smith v Hughes\" [1960] 2 All E.R. 859. Under the Street Offences Act 1959, it was a crime for prostitutes to \"loiter or solicit in the street for the purposes of prostitution\". The defendants were calling to men in the street from balconies and tapping on windows. They claimed they were not guilty as they were not in the \"street\". The judge applied the mischief rule to come to the conclusion that they were guilty as the intention of the act was to cover the mischief of harassment from prostitutes.\n\nThe rule was first set out in \"Heydon's Case\" [1584] 76 ER 637 3 CO REP 7a where the court ruled that there were four points to be taken into consideration when interpreting a statute:\n\nIn the century in which it was created, and for some time thereafter, the mischief rule was used in a legislative environment very different from the one which has prevailed in the past two centuries. As Elmer Driedger notes,\n\nModern courts continue to apply the rule in a more restricted manner, and generally with a greater regard for the integrity of the statutes which they are interpreting. Driedger puts it this way: \"[T]o this day, \"Heydon's Case\" is frequently cited. The courts still look for the 'mischief' and 'remedy', but now use what they find as aids to discover the meaning of what the legislature has said rather than to change it.\" Driedger goes on to argue that this modern use of the mischief rule ought to be understood as one of the components of what he characterized as the \"modern\" method of statutory construction, rather than a stand-alone rule serving (as it formerly had), as an alternative to the methods of construction proposed by the plain meaning rule and the golden rule.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26905612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26905612", "title": "New Fathers 4 Justice", "text": "New Fathers 4 Justice\n\nNew Fathers 4 Justice is a UK-based direct action fathers' rights group campaigning for the rights of fathers to see their children. It is a splinter group of Fathers 4 Justice.\n\nNew Fathers 4 Justice has a policy of not charging its supporters a fee, as they feel that dads need as much money and resource during the trying times of separation and divorce.\n\nNew Fathers 4 Justice (NF4J) is a fathers' rights group. It was founded in September 2008 by disgruntled activists, who were left awaiting trial when Fathers 4 Justice was shut down by Matt O'Connor.\n\nThe first protest was held on 19 September 2008 in Bristol, at the constituency office of Labour MP and Health Minister Dawn Primarolo. The protest was motivated by Primarolo's support of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act of 2008.\n\nThe group and still use Superhero costumes and comic characters in their direct action protests.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45550732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45550732", "title": "New Formations", "text": "New Formations\n\nNew Formations: A Journal of Culture, Theory & Politics is a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal which covers the uses of cultural theory for the analysis of political and social issues. It is published by Lawrence and Wishart and the editor-in-chief is Jeremy Gilbert (University of East London).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "36780180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36780180", "title": "Offensive Fouls", "text": "Offensive Fouls\n\nOffensive Fouls is a Canadian play about racism written for young adults, for use in secondary schools. It was written by Jason Long.\n\nThe play premiered in 1999 and was initially produced by All Nations Theatre, the organization that commissioned Long to write the play. Hustle n' Bustle Theatre made its debut with the play in 2011. There are only two characters in the play: Joey, a 17-year-old Irish-Canadian basketball player; and Christine, his Chinese-Canadian girlfriend. The plot follows Joey as he is benched from his basketball team after Christine suspects that he was involved in a racially motivated corner-store vandalism incident. \"Offensive Fouls\" is intended for an adolescent audience.\n\nThe play was written for performances in secondary schools, and has been performed throughout Alberta. Performances have also been held in Niagara Falls, Ontario, and Neptune Theatre in Halifax, Nova Scotia, as well as in Winnipeg. It was performed in Edmonton, Alberta as recently as 2011.\n\nThe dialogue has been praised for presenting \"teenagers who really sound like teenagers.”\n\nThe play was nominated for a Dora Mavor Moore Award.\n\nOne reviewer remarked, \"It’s not often the public gets a chance to see “what they’re teaching the kids these days,” so when you do, it behooves us to pay attention because the target audience will be calling the shots before too long.\"\n\n\"Offensive Fouls\" was published in a collection of Canadian plays for young adults titled \"Things That Go Bump\" in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "4792102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4792102", "title": "Orihon", "text": "Orihon\n\nOrihon (Japanese: 折本, Hepburn: Orihon, ) is a book style originating from the Tang dynasty (A.D. 618-908) in China and was later developed in the Heian period (A.D. 794-1185) in Japan.\n\nThe development of orihon began in China but later took on an association with Japanese books, as shown by its current name. \"The development of alternatives to the roll in China is difficult to date, but it appears that at some time during the Tang period long rolls consisting of sheets of paper pasted together began to be folded alternately one way and the other to produce an effect like a concertina. It has been supposed that this form was suggested by the palm-leaf books which transmitted Buddhist texts from India to China. However that may be, it is in any case a fact that the concertina form was primarily used in China, and subsequently in Japan, for Buddhist texts. Books of this format are called orihon 折本 in Japan, and the format survived until the nineteenth century and beyond for printed Buddhist sūtras and occasionally for other books, such as reference lists, calendars, and folding maps.\" Laura C. Liberman notes in an article that the accordion book style used in Tibet traces back to orihon origins.\n\nThe combination of characters are borrowed from Chinese, which originally translates the phrase to \"a loss\" or \"a loss of money.\" However, when looking at the individual characters, a different meaning is found. The Traditional Chinese characters are defined as 折 meaning \"to break (e.g. stick or bone); a loss\" and 本 meaning \"roots or stems of plants; origin; source; this; the current; root; foundation; basis; classifier for books, periodicals, files etc originally,\" In this context, it means a breakdown of a book. In Japanese, it combines the roots \"ori\" (fold) and \"hon\" (book). Edith Diehl describes orihon as a general Asian style and translates it to \"stabbed binding.\"\n\nCyril James Humphries Davenport notes in his 1898 lecture that \"writing upon a roll was found to be the most convenient at a very early date by the Chinese, Japanese and [K]oreans, they were also the first to find out that if the rolls were simply folded backwards and forwards between the \"pages\" of writing or printing, the whole book became easier to read, and this form, known as \"Orihon,\" is used in those countries to the present day.\"\n\nTraditional orihon books are associated with Japanese Buddhist works and e-hon, or picture books. Modern applications are found in artistic modes, such as Tom Burtonwood's 2013 plastic rendering using a 3-D printer.\n\nOrihon consist of a long strip of paper that is written on one side and then compacted by folding in zig-zag fashion. The orihon format is considered a step between a scroll and a codex.\n\nThe style of folding is similar to that of the air bellows of a concertina or accordion, such that every written page faces another written page when the book is closed. It may therefore be opened to any page. It may have a cover attached to the front and back end sections of the book. Diehl describes orihon as having stabbed holes in the back cover to allow the book to be \"laced.\"\n\n\nThe Museum of Metropolitan Art in New York, New York hosts a collection of orihon art. Some of that work is available to view on their website. \n"}
{"id": "461631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=461631", "title": "Prebound", "text": "Prebound\n\nA prebound book is a book that was previously bound and has been rebound with a library quality hardcover binding. In almost all commercial cases, the book in question began as a paperback version.\n\nAn alternate term is \"Library Hardcover Paperback\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1714543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1714543", "title": "Prefabricated home", "text": "Prefabricated home\n\nPrefabricated homes, often referred to as prefab homes or simply prefabs, are specialist dwelling types of prefabricated building, which are manufactured off-site in advance, usually in standard sections that can be easily shipped and assembled. Some current prefab home designs include architectural details inspired by postmodernism or futurist architecture.\n\nThe word ‘prefab’ is not an industry term like modular home, manufactured home, panelized home or site-built home. The term is an amalgamation of panelized and modular building systems, and can mean either one. In today's usage the term ‘prefab’ is more closely related to the style of home, usually modernist, rather than to a particular method of home construction.\n\n‘Prefabricated’ may refer to buildings built in components (e.g. panels), modules (modular homes) or transportable sections (manufactured homes), and may also be used to refer to mobile homes, i.e., houses on wheels. Although similar, the methods and design of the three vary widely. There are two-level home plans, as well as custom home plans. There are considerable differences in the construction types. In the U.S., mobile and manufactured houses are constructed in accordance with HUD building codes, while modular houses are constructed in accordance with the IRC (International Residential Code).\n\n\nMobile homes and manufactured homes can be placed in mobile home parks, and manufactured homes can also be placed on private land, unless the land is within a subdivision whose CC&Rs prohibit manufactured housing.\n\nConstructing manufactured homes typically involves connecting plumbing and electrical lines across the sections, and sealing the sections together. Manufactured homes can be single, double or triple-wide, describing how many sections wide it is. Many manufactured home companies manufacture a variety of different designs, and many of the floorplans are available online. Manufactured homes can be built onto a permanent foundation, and if designed correctly, can be difficult to distinguish from a stick-built home to the untrained eye. \n\nManufactured homes are typically purchased from a retail sales company, initially assembled by a local contracting company, and follow-up repairs performed by the manufactured home company under warranty.\n\nA manufactured home, once assembled, goes through a ‘settling-in’ period, where the home will settle into its location. During this period, some drywall cracking may appear, and any incorrectly installed appliances, wiring or plumbing should be repaired, hopefully under warranty. If not covered under warranty, the costs will be borne by the consumer. For this reason, it is important that the consumer ensure that a reputable and honest contractor is used for the initial set-up. If any repairs are not completed by the initial set-up crew, the manufacturer will send repair crews to repair anything covered by the warranty. The secondary repair team must be scheduled, and may not be available immediately for most repairs. Just because a manufactured home has been assembled does not mean it is immediately habitable; appropriate ventilation, heating, plumbing, and electrical systems must be installed by a set-up crew, otherwise, the buyer must wait for the manufacturer repair team or do it themselves.\n\nThe first prefabricated homes and movable structures were invented in 16th century in India by Akbar. These structures were reported by Arif Qandahari in 1579.\nIt can be proved that the first mention of a prefabricated building was in 1160 to 1170 by Wace as confirmed by Pierre Bouet. In the special May/June 2015 edition of the French magazine \"Historia\", he spoke of a castle transported by Normans in 'kit' form. According to Bouet, Wace's epic poem Roman de Rou, verses 6,516–6,526, states: \"They took out of the ship beams of wood and dragged them to the ground. Then the Count (Earl) who brought them, (the beams) already pierced and planed, carved and trimmed, the pegs (raw-plugs/dowels) already trimmed and transported in barrels, erected a castle, had a moat dug around it and thus had constructed a big fortress during the night.\"\n\nWooden homes have always been popular in North America, due to the large quantity of timber available in North America. In the United States, several companies including Sears Catalog Homes began offering mail-order kit homes between 1902 and 1910. In the United Kingdom, more than 156,000 prefabricated homes were built between 1945 and 1948.\nAfter the World War II until 1948, Sell-Fertighaus GmbH built over 5,000 prefabricated houses in Germany for the occupying force of the United States.\n\nThe prefab house requires much less labor compared to conventional houses. Most of the companies sell pre-manufactured modular homes called ‘mobile homes’ or ‘manufactured homes’.\n\nLocal governments in North America generally have specialized regulations such as HUD regulations besides general building codes, applicable to pre-manufactured housing.\n\nManufactured homes are not permitted in some communities, and therefore, a prospective homeowner should check the local construction law and zoning code pertaining to prefab homes.\n\nThere is no pan-EU housing standard for this kind of home construction, as regulation has historically been at the national government level. There are however many EU directives that do apply to housing construction and design, but these directives do not directly affect the inter-EU modular home sector due to inter-EU \"free trade\" considerations. However, each modular home is legally expected or obliged to be integrated into the local building regulations once the final construction is finished.\n\nIn the United Kingdom the word ‘prefab’ is often associated with a specific type of prefabricated house built in large numbers after the Second World War, such as Airey houses, as a temporary replacement for housing that had been destroyed by bombs, particularly in London.\n\nDespite the intention that these dwellings would be a strictly temporary measure, many remained inhabited for years and even decades after the end of the war. A small number are still in use in the 21st century, but more and more are being demolished. In 2011 it was announced that Britain’s largest remaining prefab estate of 187 homes in Lewisham, South-East London, is to be redeveloped except for six homes.\n\nPrefabs were also built in the First World War such as the still occupied houses in Austin Village, Birmingham.\n\nThe latest iteration of the idea is a development of 36 apartments called y:cube made by the YMCA in Mitcham, South London \n\nIlke Homes, a firm in Knaresborough, opened in November 2018. It constructs 2 and 3 bedroom 'modular' homes with fitted kitchens and bathrooms, that can be erected in 36 hours instead of the traditional 40 weeks. The 40m² two bed model costs £65,000, though land and services connection is extra. They are being marketed to housing associations not individual buyers. They will make 5000 units a year. The insurance firm Legal and General is planning to produce 3500 similar houses a year. \n\nThere are a small number of prefab home builders in Australia. In the overall housing sector, prefab housing construction is very small as the overall rate of housing construction has been very low due to slow population growth.\n\nThe prefab sector in Australia is more optimised for exporting its product, as domestic consumption is limited.\n\nIn 2010, Bali exported 98,417 prefabicated houses, but in 2011 the country only exported 5,007 units due to the global economic slowdown that affected a number of export destinations. These Balinese prefab houses are well known for their artistic design and practical value.\n\nPrefab homes are becoming popular in Europe, Canada and United States as they are relatively cheap when compared to many existing homes on the market. The 2007 finance crisis has however deflated the cost of housing in North America and Europe, so not all prefab homes should be assumed to be cheaper than existing housing.\n\nModern architects are experimenting with prefabrication as a means to deliver well-designed and mass-produced modern homes. Modern architecture forgoes referential decoration and instead features clean lines and open floor plans.\n\nBecause of the design simplifications modern architecture provides (coupled with the cost savings that tend go with design simplification) many in the manufactured housing sector generally feel that modern architecture designs are better suited for prefab home construction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47205655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47205655", "title": "Rape schedule", "text": "Rape schedule\n\nRape schedule is a concept in feminist theory used to describe the notion that women are conditioned to place restrictions on and/or make alterations to their daily lifestyles and behaviours as a result of constant fear of sexual assault. These altered behaviours may occur consciously or unconsciously.\n\nThe term \"rape schedule\" was first used in 1998 in Dianne Herman’s essay \"Rape Culture.\" It was later made popular by Jessica Valenti, through her book \"Full Frontal Feminism.\" \n\nThe concept has since been cited and discussed by feminist scholars across disciplines, including criminologist Jody Miller, lawyer Catharine Mackinnon, and philosopher Susan Griffin. These individuals have speculated on the impact of rape schedule on women’s freedom, access to rights, relationships with others, and self worth.\n\nStatistical analysis based on victim reporting can be used to demonstrate the prevalence of sexual assault in the United States. According to the 2015 National Crime Victimization Survey, on average, 321,500 people aged 12 or older in the US are raped or assaulted each year. Among this population, women are more likely to be raped than men: 1 in 6 women will experience an attempted or completed rape in their lifetime, compared with 1 in 33 men. 91% of victims of rape and sexual assault are female.\n\nThese statistics are also influenced by sexuality:\nhave reported experiencing some form of sexual violence in their lifetime, according to the National Sexual Violence Resource Center.\n\nAge also influences rates of sexual assault. For example, when compared with the overall national average for women, women aged 18-24 who are college students are three times as likely to be victims of sexual assault; women in the same age group that are not attending college are four times as likely to experience sexual assault.\n\nRape is one of the most underreported crimes in America.\n\nA privilege is a right or advantage granted to a specific population that is not allowed to others. In a sociological model, privilege (sociology) outlines the ways that these advantages are results of larger societal systems and demonstrative of social inequality.\n\nExamples of privilege can be found through the lenses of:\nThese lenses of privilege can be applied in considering the use of rape schedule. For example, Jody Miller has explained that prostitutes cannot adhere to a rape schedule as it would leave them 'unable to work'-- adhering to a rape schedule in this manner could be seen to be 'born of privilege'.\n\nFear of sexual assault is a commonly shared sentiment among many individuals in today's society, especially women. Rape schedule dictates that this fear often forces individuals to make alterations within their everyday life, shifting routines and limiting activity to conform with a level of invisibility that will provide protection. Examples of this behavior includes taking specific routes home, being indoors by specific hours of the night, avoiding going places alone, or dressing in a specific manner. Here, fear functions as both a cause and effect. \n\nIn the 1970s, a term known as Rape Trauma Syndrome was introduced by Ann Wolbert Burgess and Lynda Lytle Holmstrom.\n\nRape can lead to mental health disorders, such as PTSD, and statistical evidence demonstrates this trend. According to Dean G. Kilpatrick, from the National Violence Against Women Prevention Research Center, 31% of all rape victims develop some form of PTSD at some point in their lifetime and those who were victims of rape were “6.2 times more likely to develop PTSD than women who had never been victims of crime\". Victims were also three times more likely than those who had not been sexual assaulted to experience a major depressive episode, 13.4 times more likely to have two or more major alcohol problems, and 26 times more likely to have two or more serious drug abuse problems.\n\nBecause of these severe incidents, women develop rape schedules to help them try to avoid the possibility of rape occurring in the future. As a result of these fear-based rape schedules, women can be left feeling powerless, which can have an extremely debilitating impact on women’s self-worth.\n\nDespite adherence to any form of rape schedule, women are not guaranteed safety from the threat of sexual assault. Despite precaution, they can still be left and feel vulnerable, a phenomenon largely experienced by women and less universally by men. \n\nIn an informal survey mentioned by Mary Dickson in her article, \"A Woman's Worst Nightmare\", many men reported that they do not feel fear when walking down the street. A man stated \"as a man, I'm afraid of very little.\" However, in that same survey, women listed numerous things they feared. One female responded, \"I'm always afraid in a situation where there's somebody that could overpower me easily. I lock my doors, park in lighted areas, don't run in dark areas.\" This informal survey suggests that especially in these particular situations, women feel a great deal more vulnerable than men.\n\n"}
{"id": "18475880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18475880", "title": "Samson Slaying a Philistine", "text": "Samson Slaying a Philistine\n\nThe sculpture of Samson Slaying a Philistine is the earliest of the great marble groups by Giambologna, sculptor to the Medici Grand Dukes of Tuscany, and the only substantial work by the artist to have left Italy. It was commissioned in about 1562, by Francesco de' Medici for a fountain in Florence, but was later sent as a gift to Spain being placed in Palacio de la Ribera, Valladolid. The group was presented to the Prince of Wales, later King Charles I, in 1623 while he was in Spain negotiating a marriage contract, and it soon became the most famous Italian sculpture in England. On its arrival in England it was given to the king's favourite, the Duke of Buckingham, and subsequently changed hands three times before coming to the Victoria and Albert Museum in 1954.\n\nThe sculpture shows Samson wielding the jawbone of an ass in order to slay one of the Philistines who have taunted him. It is a good example of the multiple viewpoints seen in Giambologna's work; the spiralling movement of the bodies means that there is no main view. The dramatic pose is based on a composition by Michelangelo, who was in his late seventies when Giambologna met him in Rome. The group was carved from just one block of marble, supported by only five narrow points. Although the marble is weathered from three centuries outdoors, it still shows Giambologna's sensitive carving.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36355444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36355444", "title": "Status quo of Holy Land sites", "text": "Status quo of Holy Land sites\n\nThe status quo of the Holy Land sites is an understanding among religious communities with respect to nine shared religious sites in Jerusalem and Bethlehem. Other Holy Places in Israel and Palestine were not deemed subject to the Status Quo because the authorities of one religion or of one community within a religion are in recognized or effective possession.\n\nIt resulted from a \"firman\" (decree) of Ottoman Sultan Osman III in 1757 that preserved the division of ownership and responsibilities of various sites important to Christians, Muslims, and Jews to their then-current holders or owners, and represented agreements among the various religions that nothing could be changed from the way it was without upsetting the balance of order in maintaining the religious sites for visits by pilgrims. A further firman issued in 1852 and another one from 1853 reaffirmed the provisions of the 1757 decree. The actual provisions of the \"status quo\" were never formally established in a single document, but the 1929 summary prepared by L. G. A. Cust, a civil servant of the British Mandate, \"The Status Quo in the Holy Places\", became the standard text on the subject.\n\nWhen the Greeks launched a Palm Sunday takeover of various Holy Land sites in 1757 the Ottomans subsequently upheld this \"status quo\".\n\nThis \"status quo\" for Jerusalem meant that certain statuses for the Holy Sites would be kept and were recognized as being permanent or at least the way things should be. The city was divided into four quarters. The Temple Mount became a Muslim holy place, and the Church of the Holy Sepulchre as well as other various Christian sites were recognized as belonging to the Christian world. Despite the arguments over who would control what aspects of these sites, the status quo has remained largely intact from the 18th century to the present. Claims that this \"status quo\" was being violated led to the 1929 Palestine riots.\n\nA further 1853 decree, in the wake of the events leading to the Crimean War, solidified the existing territorial division among the communities and set a \"status quo\" for arrangements to \"remain forever\", caused differences of opinion about upkeep and even minor changes, including disagreement on the removal of an exterior ladder under one of the windows; this ladder has remained in the same position since then.\n\nUnder the \"status quo\", no part of what is designated as common territory may be so much as rearranged without consent from all communities. This often leads to the neglect of badly needed repairs when the communities cannot come to an agreement among themselves about the final shape of a project. Just such a disagreement has delayed the renovations of most pilgrimage sites, and also where any change in the structure might result in a change to the \"status quo\", disagreeable to one or more of the communities. \n\nThe Status Quo applies to nine sites in Jerusalem and Bethlehem:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "750272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=750272", "title": "The Giving Tree", "text": "The Giving Tree\n\nThe Giving Tree is a children's picture book written and illustrated by Shel Silverstein. First published in 1964 by Harper & Row, it has become one of Silverstein's best known titles and has been translated into numerous languages.\n\nThis book has been described as \"one of the most divisive books in children's literature.\" The controversy concerns whether the relationship between the main characters (a boy and a tree) should be interpreted as positive (i.e., the tree gives the boy selfless love) or as negative (i.e., the boy and the tree have an abusive relationship).\n\nSilverstein had difficulty finding a publisher for \"The Giving Tree\". An editor at Simon & Schuster rejected the book's manuscript because he felt that it was \"too sad\" for children and \"too simple\" for adults. Tomi Ungerer encouraged Silverstein to approach Ursula Nordstrom, who was a publisher with Harper & Row.\n\nAn editor with Harper & Row stated that Silverstein had made the original illustrations \"scratchy\" like his cartoons for \"Playboy\", but that he later reworked the art in a \"more pared-down and much sweeter style.\" The final black-and-white drawings have been described as \"unadorned… visual minimalism.\" Harper & Row published a small first edition of the book, consisting of only 5,000–7,500 copies, in 1964.\n\nThe book follows the lives of a female apple tree and a boy, who develop a relationship with one another. The tree is very \"giving\" and the boy evolves into a \"taking\" teenager, man, then elderly man. Despite the fact that the boy ages in the story, the tree addresses the boy as \"Boy\" his entire life. \n\nIn his childhood, the boy enjoys playing with the tree, climbing her trunk, swinging from her branches, carving \"Me + T (Tree)\" into the bark, and eating her apples. However, as the boy grows older, he spends less time with the tree and tends to visit her only when he wants material items at various stages of his life, or not coming to the tree alone (such as bringing a lady friend to the tree and carving \"Me +Y.L.\" (her initials) into the tree. In an effort to make the boy happy at each of these stages, the tree gives him parts of herself, which he can transform into material items, such as money (from her apples), a house (from her branches), and a boat (from her trunk). With every stage of giving, \"the Tree was happy\". \n\nIn the final pages, both the tree and the boy feel the sting of their respective \"giving\" and \"taking\" nature. When only a stump remains for the tree (including the carving \"Me + T\"), she is not happy, at least at that moment. The boy does return as a tired elderly man to meet the tree once more. She tells him she is sad because she cannot provide him shade, apples, or any materials like in the past. He ignores this and states that all he wants is \"a quiet place to sit and rest,\" which the tree, who is weak being just a stump, could provide. With this final stage of giving, \"the Tree was happy\".\n\nInterest in the book increased by word of mouth; for example, in churches \"it was hailed as a parable on the joys of giving.\" As of 2001, over 5 million copies of the book had been sold, placing it 14th on a list of hardcover \"All-Time Bestselling Children's Books\" from \"Publishers Weekly.\" By 2011, 8.5 million copies of the book had been sold.\n\nIn a 1999–2000 National Education Association online survey of children, among the \"Kids' Top 100 Books,\" the book was 24th. Based on a 2007 online \"Teachers' Top 100 Books for Children\" poll by the National Education Association, the book came in third. It was 85th of the \"Top 100 Picture Books\" of all time in a 2012 poll by \"School Library Journal\". \"Scholastic Parent & Child\" magazine placed it #9 on its list of \"100 Greatest Books for Kids\" in 2012. As of 2013, it ranked third on a Goodreads list of \"Best Children's Books.\"\n\nThe book has generated various opinions on how to interpret the relationship between the tree and the boy. Some possible interpretations include:\n\nUrsula Nordstrom attributed the book's success partially to \"Protestant ministers and Sunday-school teachers\", who believed that the tree represents \"the Christian ideal of unconditional love.\"\n\nSome people believe that the tree represents Mother Nature and the boy represents humanity. The book has been used to teach children environmental ethics. An educational resource for children describes the book as an \"allegory about the responsibilities a human being has for living organisms in the environment,\" Lisa Rowe Fraustino states that “some curricula use the book as a what-not-to-do role model.\" \n\nOne writer believes that the relationship between the boy and the tree is one of friendship. As such, the book teaches children \"as your life becomes polluted with the trappings of the modern world — as you 'grow up' — your relationships tend to suffer if you let them fall to the wayside.\" Another writer's criticism of this interpretation is that the tree appears to be an adult when the boy is young, and cross-generational friendships are rare.\n\nA common interpretation of the book is that the tree and the boy have a parent–child relationship, as in a 1995 collection of essays about the book edited by Richard John Neuhaus in the journal \"First Things\". Among the essayists, some were positive about the relationship; for example, Amy A. Kass wrote about the story that \"it is wise and it is true about giving and about motherhood,\" and her husband Leon R. Kass encourages people to read the book because the tree \"is an emblem of the sacred memory of our own mother's love.\" Other essayists put forth negative views. Mary Ann Glendon wrote that the book is \"a nursery tale for the 'me' generation, a primer of narcissism, a catechism of exploitation,\" and Jean Bethke Elshtain felt that the story ends with the tree and the boy \"both wrecks.\"\n\nA 1998 study using phenomenographic methods found that Swedish children and mothers tended to interpret the book as dealing with friendship, while Japanese mothers tended to interpret the book as dealing with parent–child relationships.\n\nSome authors believe that the book is not actually intended for children, but instead should be treated as a satire aimed at adults along the lines of \"A Modest Proposal\" by Jonathan Swift.\n\nElizabeth Bird, writing for the \"School Library Journal\", described \"The Giving Tree\" as \"one of the most divisive books in children's literature\". Criticism revolves about the depiction of the relationship between the boy and the tree.\nCritics of the book say that the boy never thanks the tree for its gifts. In an interview with \"Horn Book Magazine\", Phyllis J. Fogelman, an editor with Harper & Row, said the book is \"about a sadomasochistic relationship\" and \"elevates masochism to the level of a good\", which mirrors Mary Daly's analysis in \"Gyn/Ecology: the Metaethics of Radical Feminism\".\n\nOne college instructor discovered that the book caused both male and female remedial reading students to be angry because they felt that the boy exploited the tree. For teaching purposes, he paired the book with a short story by Andre Dubus entitled \"The Fat Girl\" because its plot can be described as \"The Giving Tree\" \"in reverse.\"\n\nThe photograph of Silverstein on the back cover of the book has attracted attention. One writer described the photograph as showing the author's \"jagged menacing teeth\" and \"evil, glaring eyes.\" Another writer compared the photograph to the one on the back of \"Where the Sidewalk Ends\" in which Silverstein resembles \"the Satanist Anton LaVey.\" In the book \"\", the father threatens the protagonist with the photograph to make sure that he does not leave his room at night.\n\nA short animated film of the book, produced in 1973, featured Silverstein's narration. \n\nSilverstein also wrote a song of the same name, which was performed by Bobby Bare and his family on his album \"Singin' in the Kitchen\" (1974).\n\nSilverstein created an adult version of the story in a cartoon entitled \"I Accept the Challenge.\" In the cartoon, a nude woman cuts off a nude man's arms and legs with scissors, then sits on his torso in a pose similar to the final drawing in \"The Giving Tree\" in which the old man sits on the stump.\n\nJackson and Dell (1979) wrote an \"alternative version\" of the story for teaching purposes that was entitled \"The Other Giving Tree.\" It featured two trees next to each other and a boy growing up. One tree acted like the one in \"The Giving Tree\", ending up as a stump, while the other tree stopped at giving the boy apples, and does not give the boy its branches or trunk. At the end of the story, the stump was sad that the old man chose to sit under the shade of the other tree.\n\nThe Giving Tree Band took its name from the book. Plain White T's EP \"Should've Gone to Bed\" has a song The Giving Tree, written by Tim Lopez.\n\nThe 2010 short film \"I'm Here\", written and directed by Spike Jonze, is based on \"The Giving Tree\"; the main character Sheldon is named after Shel Silverstein.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "89690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89690", "title": "Trailer park", "text": "Trailer park\n\nA trailer park is a temporary or permanent area for mobile homes and travel trailers. Advantages include low cost compared to other housing, and quick and easy moving to a new area, for example when taking a job in a distant place while keeping the same home.\n\nTrailer parks, especially in American culture, are stereotypically viewed as lower income housing for occupants living at or below the poverty line who have low social status and lead a desultory and deleterious lifestyle. Despite the advances in trailer home technology, the trailer park image survives as evoked by a statement from Presidential adviser James Carville who, in the course of one of the Bill Clinton White House political scandals, suggested \"Drag $100 bills through trailer parks, there's no telling what you'll find,\" in reference to Paula Jones. It is also seen in the Canadian mockumentary \"Trailer Park Boys\".\n\nTornadoes and hurricanes often inflict serious damage on trailer parks, usually because the structures are not secured to the ground and their construction is significantly less able to withstand high wind forces than regular houses. However, most modern manufactured homes are built to withstand high winds, using hurricane straps and proper foundations.\n\nThe negative perception of trailer parks was not improved by the creation of emergency trailer parks by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for the displaced victims of Hurricane Katrina, the quality and temporary nature of which was disputed.\n\nMany stereotypes have developed regarding people who live in trailer parks, which are similar to stereotypes of the poor and the term \"trailer trash\" is often used as an adjective in the same vein as the derogatory American terms \"white trash\" or \"ghetto\". Though trailer parks appear throughout the United States, they are often associated with the Deep South and rural areas.\n\nMore recently referred to in the U.S. as \"mobile home parks\" or \"manufactured housing communities\", the stereotypes are often just that. Age-Restricted communities exist in many locales that permit mobile home parks as \"55+ parks\" in keeping with the Housing for Older Persons Act (HOPA). Generally at least one homeowner in these age-restricted communities must be age 55 or over and persons under the age of 18 are rarely permitted to live there. These can be gated communities with amenities such as swimming pools, clubhouses and on-site maintenance. Homes are often permanently installed on foundations. However, in certain circumstances residents may not own the land their homes occupy.\n\nIn Europe, particularly in Germany and Spain, where trailer parks are less common (but exist) as 'normal' accommodation, disputed trailer parks exist that squat on land near urban centers (Berlin, Hamburg, Barcelona). Names for such phenomena include \"Wagenburg\", \"Wagendorf\" or \"Bauwagenplatz\" (all German, meaning: \"wagon fort\", \"trailer village\" and \"construction trailer place\" respectively) and people living there are often associated with certain ethnic groups such as Romani, or with the punk movement, New age travelers, Irish travelers and a \"do-it-yourself punk ethic\". On the whole, however, trailer parks are much less common in these countries than they are elsewhere and in United States and are much less emblematic of a distinct lifestyle and membership to a certain social class.\n\nIn Germany, the Netherlands and some other European countries local law allows for normal camping at RV parks for a short time and seasonal camping for holiday makers, and also long-time camping (for years) with hardly movable travel trailers. Sometimes the inhabitants also cultivate a garden. Some cities allow a long-time camping lot to be the regular address registered with the authorities; others do not. Many of mobile home plots are offered by RV parks that allow for all sorts of camping and offer extra plots for mobile homes (static caravans).The cost for such a plot tends to be between 400 € and 1.500 € a year, depending on the location and facilities.\n\nIn France, living in a trailer or mobile home for more than three months is prohibited by law, even if the resident owns the land; however, building requirements and permissions for self building of recreational solid (static) country cottages are more relaxed in France if one stays within a certain amount of square meters.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"trailers\" are commonly known as static caravans, and are generally used for one of two purposes: firstly as holiday homes, designed for short-term living; and secondly as retirement homes for the elderly, designed for long-term occupancy. Both types of trailers usually enjoy good amenities and are surrounded by highly manicured gardens.\n\nIn Australia, there is generally no differentiation between a trailer park and an RV park. The term \"caravan park\" is used to refer to both.\n\nIn New Zealand, the suburb of Favona in Auckland is an area where trailer parks are concentrated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "377332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377332", "title": "William Manchester", "text": "William Manchester\n\nWilliam Raymond Manchester (April 1, 1922 – June 1, 2004) was an American author, biographer, and historian. He was the author of 18 books which have been translated into over 20 languages. He was awarded the National Humanities Medal and the Abraham Lincoln Literary Award.\n\nManchester was born in Attleboro, Massachusetts, and grew up in Springfield, Massachusetts. His father served in the U.S. Marine Corps during World War I. After his father's death, and the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, William Manchester likewise enlisted in the Marine Corps. However, he was ordered back to college until called up. Initially he joined the Officer Candidate School but was dropped before receiving a commission. After being warranted to the rank of corporal, he was sent to Guadalcanal in 1944 for further training. Although he had expected to serve in Europe, Manchester ultimately found himself in the Pacific Theater. He served in the Pacific War's final campaign on the island of Okinawa, was severely wounded on June 5, 1945, and was promoted to sergeant in July and awarded the Purple Heart. Manchester's wartime experiences formed the basis for his very personal account of the Pacific Theater, \"\". In this memoir, Manchester uses personal anecdotes from his service on Okinawa in his descriptions of battles on Guadalcanal, Tarawa and Saipan. He stated this in the end notes, as well as clearly denying any attempt at a chronological account. Manchester's portrayal of his section in combat on Guadalcanal is a literary device.\n\nManchester also wrote of World War II in several other books, including the first and second volumes and, according to a December 2012 C-SPAN interview with his co-author Paul Reid, a small portion of the third volume of the three-part biography, , of Winston Churchill. Manchester also wrote a biography of General Douglas MacArthur, \"American Caesar\".\n\nManchester worked as a copyboy for the \"Daily Oklahoman\" in 1945 before returning to college. In 1946, he completed his B.A. from the Massachusetts State College, and in 1947 he earned his master's degree from the University of Missouri.\n\nManchester married Julia Brown Marshall on March 27, 1948, and they had one son and two daughters.\n\nIn 1947, Manchester went to work as a reporter for \"The Baltimore Sun\". There he met journalist H. L. Mencken, who became his friend and mentor, and also became the subject of Manchester's master's thesis and first book, \"Disturber of the Peace\". The biography, published in 1951, profiles Mencken, the self-described \"conservative anarchist\" who made his mark as a writer, editor, and political pundit in the 1920s. In 1953, Manchester published his novel \"The City of Anger\", set in Baltimore and dealing with inner city life and the numbers racket, subjects Manchester had learned about as a big city reporter.\n\nIn 1955, Manchester became an editor for Wesleyan University and the Wesleyan University Press and spent the rest of his career at the university. For the academic year 1959–1960, he was a Fellow on the faculty at the Center for Advanced Studies of Wesleyan. He later became an adjunct professor of history, adjunct professor emeritus, and writer-in-residence at the university. During his association with Wesleyan University, Manchester developed an intense writing regimen that he adhered to for much of his life, often writing nonstop for up to 50 hours at a time. He described the experience as follows: \"I would work all day, all night, all the next day, all the following night and into the third day. I would look up at the clock, and it would be 3:30 in the afternoon, and I would say, 'Oh boy, I've got three more hours to write.' I just loved it.\"\n\nHis best-selling book, \"The Death of a President\" (1967), is a detailed account of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, who had been the subject of an earlier book by Manchester. In 1964, Manchester was commissioned by the Kennedy family to write the book. Manchester, who retraced the movements of President Kennedy and Lee Harvey Oswald before the assassination, concluded, based on his study of Oswald's psychology and their similar training as Marine sharpshooters, that Oswald had acted alone. Manchester had the support of Robert and Jacqueline Kennedy, but later had a falling-out with Robert over Manchester's treatment of President Lyndon B. Johnson.\n\nBefore the book could be published, Jacqueline Kennedy filed a lawsuit to prevent its publication, even though she had previously authorized it. The suit was settled in 1967, reportedly with Manchester's agreeing to drop certain passages dealing with details of Kennedy's family life. In response satirist Paul Krassner published a piece entitled \"The Parts That Were Left Out of the Kennedy Book\", which imagined scandalous censored material. In his collection of essays \"Controversy\" (1977), Manchester detailed Kennedy's attempts to suppress the book. The book was a best-seller at release, but was allowed to go out of print until 1988. It was re-issued in October 2013.\n\nIn 2001, President George W. Bush presented Manchester with the National Humanities Medal. Manchester was also the recipient of the Abraham Lincoln Literary Award, among other awards. Following the death of his wife in 1998, Manchester suffered two strokes. He announced that he would not be able to complete his planned third volume of his three part-biography of Churchill, \"\". He was initially reluctant to collaborate with anyone to finish to work, but in October 2003, he asked Paul Reid, a friend and writer for \"The Palm Beach Post\", to complete the Churchill biography.\n\nManchester died at the age of 82 on June 1, 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44902114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44902114", "title": "Wrong-way driving warning", "text": "Wrong-way driving warning\n\nWrong-way driver warning is a new advanced driver-assistance system introduced in 2010 to prevent wrong-way driving.\n\nIn the case of signs imposing access restrictions, through the wrong-way driver warning function an acoustic warning is emitted together with a visual warning in the instrument cluster – making an effective contribution towards helping to prevent serious accidents caused by wrong-way drivers.\n\n"}
{"id": "10403542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10403542", "title": "École Nationale des Chartes", "text": "École Nationale des Chartes\n\nThe École nationale des chartes is a French \"grande école\" and a constituent college of PSL Research University specialised in historical sciences. It was founded in 1821 and was located first at the National Archives, then at the Palais de la Sorbonne (5th arrondissement). In October 2014, it moved to 65 rue de Richelieu (University of Paris II), opposite to the Richelieu-Louvois Site of the National Library of France. The school is administered by the Ministry of National Education, Higher Education and Research. It holds the status of \"grand établissement\". Its students, who are recruited by competitive examination and hold the status of trainee civil servant, receive the qualification of archivist-paleographer after completing a thesis. They generally go on to follow a career as heritage curators in the archive and visual fields, as library curators or as lecturers and researchers in the human and social sciences. In 2005, the school also introduced Master’s degrees, for which students were recruited based on an application file, and, in 2011, doctorates.\n\nThe École des chartes was created by order of Louis XVIII on 22 February 1821, although its roots are in the Revolution and the Napoleonic period. The Revolution, during which property was confiscated, congregations were suppressed and competencies were transferred from the Church to the State, produced radical cultural changes. In 1793 the feudist Antoine Maugard approached the public instruction committee of the Convention with a proposal for a project of historical and diplomatic education. The project was never carried out, and Maugard was largely forgotten. The institution was finally created by the philologist and anthropologist Joseph Marie de Gérando, baron of the Empire and general secretary to Champagny, the Minister of the Interior. In 1807 he submitted a proposal to Napoleon for the creation of a school to train young scholars of history. Napoleon examined the proposal and declared that he wished to develop a much larger specialist history school. However, Gérando was posted to Italy on an administrative mission, and the project was interrupted. At the end of 1820, Gérando convinced Count Siméon, a philosopher and professor of law who had been state councilor under the Empire and who was at that time Minister of the Interior, of the usefulness of an institution modeled on the \"grandes écoles\", dedicated to the study of “a branch of French literature”, the charters. The 1820s were a favorable period for the creation of the École des chartes. This was firstly because the atmosphere of nostalgia for the Middle Ages created a desire to train specialists who would, by carrying out a direct study of archives and manuscripts confiscated during the Revolution, be able to renew French historiography. Secondly, the need was also felt to maintain this branch of study, which stemmed from Maurist tradition, since the field was endangered by a lack of knowledgeable collaborators in the “science of charters and manuscripts”. And thirdly, during the reign of Louis XVIII, a period which saw the return of the Ultras and during which the constitutional monarchy was called into question, the political context influenced the creation of an institution whose name inevitably made explicit reference to the defense of the Charter.\n\nUnder the order of 1821, twelve students were nominated by the Minister of the Interior, based on propositions by the \"Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-lettres\", and they were paid during the two years of their studies. They principally studied paleography and philology, with a purely practical aim: to be able to read and understand the documents that they would be responsible for curating. The professors and students of the school were placed under the authority of the curator of medieval manuscripts of the Royal Library, rue de Richelieu, and of the general guard of the Archives of the Kingdom.\n\nThis first experience was not very successful, mainly because no job openings were reserved for the students. The first course was implemented in two stages by the ministerial decree of 11 May (for the Royal Library course) and by the decree of 21 December 1821 (for the Archives of the Kingdom course), and was the only one run. The \"Académie\" did put forward a new list of candidates, and the course length was set at two years by the Order of 16 July 1823, but lessons had to be suspended on 19 December 1823 due to a lack of students. However, following a long period of inactivity, the Ministry of the Interior decided to re-open the school. Rives, the director of staff of the ministry, together with Dacier, drew up a report on the reorganization of the School and a draft order, proposed to Charles X by La Bourdonnaye, which resulted in the order of 11 November 1829. The school was now open to anyone who had acquired the Baccalaureate, but six to eight students were selected by competitive examination at the end of the first year. They received a salary and followed two further years of training. On completion of their studies, they received the qualification of archivist-paleographer and were reserved half of the available jobs in libraries and archives. The first valedictorian was Alexandre Teulet.\n\nThe \"Guizot period\" benefited the École des chartes, which soon became an important institution in the field of historical – particularly medieval – studies. On 24 March 1839 the Société de l’École des chartes was founded by Louis Douët d’Arcq, among others, and it published the Bibliothèque de l’École des Chartes, one of the oldest French scientific reviews, to disseminate the work carried out in the school. The Order of 31 December 1846 implemented a fundamental reorganization of the school and its study program, which then remained unchanged for more than a century. The students, who were holders of the Baccalaureate, were recruited by examination (which shortly afterwards became a competitive examination), and followed a three-year course of studies. Interdisciplinarity, an essential characteristic of the school, was then written into the reform, which required students to study six subjects, some of which were not taught anywhere else. The second innovation, a thesis, was introduced, with the first public defense being held in 1849. A surveillance council was set up, consisting of the guard of the Archives, the director of the Royal Library, the director of the School and five members of the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-lettres. The school was finally provided with a new statute. It moved to the Kingdom Archives in the hôtel de Soubise, in the oval hall and adjacent rooms of the hôtel de Clisson.\n\nBy now, the École des chartes had become a point of reference in Europe. Its historical research methodology had been greatly modernized, as had its teaching methods, thanks to the copies of ancient documents to which it had access. The students were taught paleography, sigillography, numismatics, philology, filing for archives and libraries, historical geography, currencies, systems of weights and measures, the history of political institutions in France, archeology, civil law, canonic law and feudal law. The teaching had both a scientific and a professional aim.\n\nThus, by gradually integrating into the network of royal then national and departmental archive services, the graduates of the school contributed to the densification of the network and to the improvement of archivist principles. A pathway for the graduates was thus established in the archives, first implemented by the Order of 31 December 1846, then reinforced by a legislative framework providing them with a means to enforce this law. The decree of 4 February 1850 reserved the posts of departmental archivist to those holding the qualification of archivist-paleographer, while all the job posts at the National Archives (except the position of senior civil servant) were reserved for them by the decree of 14 May 1887. The same could not be said of libraries. The order of 1839 was never applied, and although the order of 1839 reserved places at the Royal Library for École des chartes graduates, fewer than 7% of them worked in a library in 1867. It was not until the end of the Second Empire, partly thanks to the work of Léopold Delisle, the general administrator of the national library, that the qualifications of the school’s graduates were recognized by libraries. Little by little, decrees and orders facilitated their access to jobs in libraries.\n\nThe school moved in 1866 into more suitable premises in the hôtel de Breteuil, rue des Francs-Bourgeois, without this move having much effect on the teaching. Seven professorships were instituted by the decree of 30 January 1869: paelography; Latin languages; bibliography; filing for libraries and archives; diplomacy; political, administrative and judiciary institutions in France; civil and canonic law of the Middle Ages and archeology of the Middle Ages. Apart from minor modifications, these remained unchanged until 1955. The school moved once again in 1897, to 19 rue de la Sorbonne, into the premises originally intended for the Paris Faculté de théologie catholique. This move brought the school geographically closer to the other research and teaching institutions based at the Sorbonne, such as the Faculté de lettres and the École pratique des hautes études. The school had a classroom, with windows along both sides and special deep desks for paleography practice, as well as a library, in which books were available for immediate access. Although the premises have been refurbished, the school is still located here today. During the 1920s, a number of moves to other premises were proposed, with suggestions including the hôtel de Rohan in 1924, the garden of the Institution for Deaf-Mutes (suggested by Michel Roux-Spitz), a plot on rue Notre-Dame-des-Champs, a house on rue de Vaugirard, the former Polytechnic School, and the refectory of the Bernardins. The school will move in 2015 to the Richelieu area, into new premises at 65 rue de Richelieu and 12 rue des Petits-Champs. The school was also a founding member of the Campus Condorcet, and for this reason, some of its research activities were conducted at the Aubervilliers campus.\n\nThe image of the École des chartes, in political and social terms, was firmly anchored, even though it has sometimes been classified as a right-wing institution. The image of the \"right-wing chartiste\" originated in the figure of the \"amateur\", the son of a well-off family, passing through the school to kill time elegantly, or to \"wait\", in the words of Robert Martin du Gard, who graduated from the school in 1905. In fact, throughout the 19th century there was a discontinuity between the high-prestige training offered by the École des chartes and the lower-prestige, modestly remunerated jobs open to graduates. However, this reputation was at least partly unfounded, as demonstrated by several cases. At the time of the Dreyfus Affair, for example, the milieu of the École des chartes mirrored the divisions in French society: “Nowhere were civic quarrels more completely invested in the job of historian”. The few chartistes who were called upon as experts during the Zola process – Arthur Giry, Auguste Molinier, Paul Meyer, Paul Viollet and Gaston Paris – and who were involved in the founding of the League of Human Rights were attacked by other archivist-paleographers, including Robert de Lasteyrie, Gabriel Hanotaux and Émile Couard, as well as by their students at the École des chartes. The variety of engagements at the time of the Dreyfus Affair did not necessarily reflect the political sensitivities of those involved, and their motives were political as well as professional, jeopardizing the very training and methods of the school. Although it was conservative to some extent, the school admitted a female student, Geneviève Acloque, in 1906, long before the other \"grandes écoles\" had started admitting women. The École des chartes may have been perceived as a bastion of the French Action during the interwar period, although several relatively prominent alumni, such as Georges Bataille or Roger Martin du Gard, seem to have been more left-leaning. During the Second World War, there were therefore more École des chartes students and teachers on the side of the Resistance than on the side of Vichy. Bertrand Joly concludes that the school was largely neutral, in that each “wing” seems to have been equally represented, a neutrality that was also justified by the fact that the school was not big enough for its members to have a significant effect on national politics.\n\nThe entrance examination and internal examinations of the École des chartes were reformed at the beginning of the 1930s. At this time, the school began offering the qualification of diplôme technique de bibliothécaire (DTB) 34, which was required to obtain a job as a librarian in first-category municipal libraries or university libraries. The school opened its classes on the history of books and bibliography to external students preparing for the qualification. This practice continued until 1950, when the \"diplôme supérieur de bibliothécaire\" (DSB) replaced the DTB as the qualification for librarians.\n\nThe mid-20th century was a difficult period for the school as it struggled to modernize. Its student numbers dropped sharply (there were only 11 archivist-paleographers in the class of 1959). Its training was considered to be outdated and lacking in the latest approaches to history, notably the historiographic revival of the Annales School. It was not until the 1990s, when the entrance examination and teaching were reformed and a new policy was introduced, that the school really saw a revival. It entered a period of development under the direction of Yves-Marie Bercé (1992-2001) and Anita Guerreau-Jalabert (2001-2006). The current development of the school is based on solid training in new technologies and their application to the conservation of cultural heritage, and closer, more structured links with French universities and similar institutions in other European countries. The teaching has also been restructured to be better suited to the current demands of scientific research and evolution in conservation jobs. This approach will be introduced gradually as of the academic year 2014-15.\n\nSince the current director, Jean-Michel Leniaud, took up his post in 2011, the school has once more reformed its entrance examination to focus student recruitment on the specifics of the training, while also expanding the training to a broader field of human and social sciences, adapting it to the European context and recruitment conditions within conservation organizations. The range of subjects taught, which was expanded in the 1990s to include history of art, now also includes archeology, history of contemporary law, and history of property law. The course has been extended from three years to three years and nine months, aligning training in fundamental scientific techniques with empowerment in conservation jobs. In no other social and human sciences institution is the study of history, philology and law integrated to this extent into the conservation of archives, books monuments and works of art, be they inventories, historic monuments or museums.\n\nAs well as improving the recruitment process and upgrading the training of future archivist-paleographers, the school has introduced specialized Master’s programs focusing on digital technologies adapted to the humanities. It has recently introduced a continuing training service that takes into account the \"validation des acquis de l’expérience (VAE)\" (a certification accrediting work experience).\nThe school’s collaboration with the Établissement Public de Coopération Scientific (Campus Condorcet Paris-Aubervilliers), the ComUE heSam University and the Sorbonne Universities demonstrates the new directions that it has taken in recent years. To this end, it has modernized its administration, implemented ambitious communications programs and established a new campus opposite the National Library on rue de Richelieu. It is thus preparing to fulfill as effectively as possible the public service role assigned to it by the government.\n\nThe École nationale des chartes is regulated by the statute of 27 January 1984, modified by statute no. 2013-660 of 22 July 2013 which relates to higher education and research. Article 3 of decree no. 87-832 of 8 October 1897 modified by decree no. 2005-1751 of 30 December 2005 defines the missions of the school as follows:\n\"The mission of the École nationale des chartes is to provide training for the scientific staff of archives and libraries. It trains those who contribute to scientific knowledge and the protection of national heritage. It engages in the training and research of students in the human and social sciences, particularly in disciplines relating to critical study, exploitation, conservation and communication of historic sources.”\n\nThe governing bodies are composed of the director of the School, the administrative council and the scientific council. \nThe director is selected from among the directors of studies of the École pratique des hautes études, the École nationale des chartes and the École française d’Extrême-Orient, or from among professors of the universities and members of affiliated institutions. The director is appointed by decree of the President of the Republic for a term of five years, renewable once under the conditions of article.\nThe director is assisted by a director of studies and a general director of services. \nThe administrative council, consisting of 21 members, includes four unelected members, ten members appointed by the minister responsible for higher education, two of whom are members of the Institute, and seven elected members, three of whom are teachers, two of whom are IATOS (non-teaching staff) and two of whom are students. \nThe scientific council37, headed by the director of the School, includes all the teachers who are directors of studies, as well as other unelected members. It also includes fifteen appointed members, five of whom are members of the Institute, as well as an elected teacher and a student representative. \nThe Paris (an inter-academic research and training body) and the Committee of Historical and Scientific Work are affiliated with the l'École des chartes.\n\nFrench students are recruited by competitive examination prepared in literary-oriented \"classes préparatoires\" in and outside Paris. Since 1991, it has been divided into two sections:\n\nStudents prepare for the entrance examination in dedicated \"classes préparatoires\", the first year of which is known as “hypochartes” and the second year “chartes”. Depending on the school, students preparing for examination A and those preparing for examination B may be grouped into a single cohort with different options, or they may be divided into two different cohorts. Those preparing for Section B can be grouped into \"\" with additional options. \nCandidates who can provide proof of at least a bachelor’s degree in theory may take an examination to be allowed to proceed directly into the second year. This examination is aimed at candidates who are already conducting research at an advanced level. \nThere is now a limit on the number of candidates taking the entrance examination. It was reduced from 30 to 20 in three years, which was lower than the number of jobs available to graduates of the school ( in archives, libraries, museums, etc.).\n\nStudents recruited by competitive examination can assume the status of trainee civil servants, being paid (currently approximately €1250/month net) in exchange for committing to a ten-year engagement. Those who pass the examination may choose whether or not to accept this status. Foreign students who are recruited by examination or on the basis of qualifications (according to the international selection procedure) are not remunerated while they follow the course, although they can apply for a scholarship.\n\nThe course duration is three years and nine months 38. At the end of their studies, the students submit a thesis, which qualifies them as .\n\nThose who have fulfilled their third-year obligations can apply for two \"\" : the (Enssib,reserved competitive examination) and the (INP). Following their studies in these schools, they may join the professions of either curators of libraries or curators of heritage. Each year, a number of students sit the INP’s examination in the visual branches (Museums, Historic Monuments and Inventories) or the \"agrégation\" examination (History, Classic or Modern Letters and Grammar), thus following either a research-oriented or a teaching-oriented career path.\n\nThe course takes place over eight semesters, of which six are dedicated to teaching. As well as a common core of subjects, students choose options according to their scientific and professional objectives. These options can be taken externally through a university. Internships play an important role, with a five-month compulsory internship in an institution in the field of conservation (e.g. archives, libraries, museums, or heritage or archeological services) in France, and three months in a similar institution abroad. \nThe principal subjects studied are:\nECTS credits are allocated to the subjects, making it possible for students from universities or other \"grandes écoles\" to follow some of them and for the subjects to be included in the external students’ Master’s qualifications. This is made possible by the new , which harmonizes French academic qualifications with other European ones. Classes are also open to independent auditors.\n\nIn 2006 the École des chartes introduced a Master’s program in Digital Technologies Applied to History, and has since then trained approximately 20 students per year. In the first year, all students take the same basic modules plus three options (archiving, history of books and media, and history of art). The first year of the Master’s is a continuance of the École des chartes undergraduate training. In the second year, students follow more specialized training in the field of IT applied to webcasting. There are two possible paths, one more research-oriented and the other, which is more vocational, oriented towards the dissemination of knowledge in a heritage service.\n\nIn 2011, the École des chartes introduced a further two Master’s courses. The first, in Medieval Studies, is offered in partnership with the École normale supérieure, the University of Paris III and the University of Paris IV. Its aim is to “provide training in literary research for medieval texts, with an interdisciplinary approach in the context of specialization in the Middle Ages”. The second, run in partnership with the École normale supérieure Paris-Saclay and the , is in Audiovisual Design: Plurimedial Representations of History, Society and Science. It aims to “train designers and makers of audiovisual documentaries (for cinema, television, radio and internet) as well as creators and heads of multimedia sites operating in the written press and publishing”.\n\nThe École nationale des chartes awards doctorates in the subjects that it teaches. Any student holding a master's degree, whether or not it was awarded by the École des chartes, can apply to enroll in a doctoral program at the school. The doctorate is prepared through two collaborating doctoral schools: the École pratique des hautes études (for doctorates in medieval history, history of art, archeology, Roman philology and Latin) and the Paris Sorbonne University (for doctorates in modern and contemporary history).\n\nDetailed article : .\n\nThe École des chartes provides part of the preparation for the competitive examination for heritage curators (archive specialization) for students of the INP’s \"classe préparatoire intégrée\". These students are selected on the basis of social and academic criteria.\n\nMost of the professors at the École nationale des chartes are affiliated to the Centre Jean-Mabillon, the École’s research unit, whose director is currently .\nThe aim of the center’s research program to cover all the processes that explain and publicize the written production from the Middle Ages to the present, through various stages : \n\nA significant part of the school’s research activity is the theses of the students, whose fields of studies have diversified over the years and now relate to all periods of history, notably contemporary.\n\nPartnerships with other institutions form one of the central policies of the current administration, which collaborates closely with the École pratique des hautes études, the and the Centre d’études superieures de civilisation médiévale of the University of Poitiers to create the École d’Érudition en réseau. The École des chartes is also part of the Institut d’histoire du livre together with the City of Lyon (its municipal library and Museum of printing works), the École normale supérieure of Lyon and the .\n\nThe École des chartes also collaborates with other higher education establishments in Paris to form the , the and the .\nThe school also has partnerships with institutions outside France, such as the Russian State Archives, a number of Moscow libraries, the University of Alicante, and Italian research centers 45. The school takes in a number of foreign students, who are often Swiss, Belgian or from francophone African countries, and is currently seeking to attract new students for shorter stays, through partnerships with universities. The school’s students are also regularly invited to do internships in archives or libraries in other countries.\n\nThe library was created by the order of 31 December 1846. At the time it occupied one of the two rooms reserved for the school in the hôtel de Soubise. The library moved with the school in 1897, and since then has occupied the second floor (reading room and history room), third floor (Horseshoe Room) and fourth floor (offices and store rooms in the attic).\n\nIn 1920, the management of the library was taken over by the secretary of the school, who at the time was René Poupardin. Today it is managed by a library curator.\n\nIt was designed as a research library. Its collections are particularly well supplied in the subjects taught at the school: medieval history, philology, history of books, bibliography, etc. The collections (around 150,000 volumes) are all available for immediate access. The catalogue is available online. Many electronic resources are also available.\nDue to lack of space at the Sorbonne, the library will move in 2016 to 12 rue des Petits-Champs, into much larger premises.\n\nThe École nationale des chartes disseminates scientific works in its fields of specialization, in printed and electronic format. \nIt has published four collections of works in printed format :\n\nThe École des chartes also publishes two periodic publications relating to the training it offers :\nThese works are disseminated by CID-FMSH, through the Comptoir des presses de l’université.\nSince 2002, the École des chartes has also published scientific works in electronic format in its online collection of publications, the Éditions en ligne de l’École des chartes (ELEC). This gives scientific works digital functions and brings together repertoires and databases as well as texts, in a format that is more suited than printed versions to detailed examination.\nThis collection is completed by :\nThese materials are under open license.\n\nThe school develops its scientific and teaching work through several initiatives, including the Thélème website 48, which offers materials supporting the subjects taught at the school, such as educational packs, advice, lessons, and interactive facsimiles.\n\nThe École des chartes also publishes numerous works, in both paper and electronic format. The \"Mémoires et documents de l’École des chartes\" are monographs, many of them drawn from École des chartes theses or doctoral research. The first of these was published in 1896 and they are distributed by Honoré Champion and Droz. Two more collections, the \"Études et rencontres\" (minutes of conventions and brief monographs) and \"Matériaux pour l’histoire\" (illustrated large-format albums), have been created more recently. ELEC is also responsible for the school’s online publications, which include databases, editions of texts, minutes of symposia, bibliographies, and studies.\n\nThe Société de l’École des chartes is a registered as a public-interest association which students and alumni can join. Its current president is Marie-Paule Arnauld, who was elected on 29 May 2010, replacing . Twice a year, the Société publishes the \"Bibliothèque de l’École des chartes\" with the support of the École. This scientific review, founded in 1839, is one of the oldest in France.\n\nDetailed articles : and \n\n\n\n\n\nSome biographers, perhaps overgeneralizing, also use the term “chartiste” to refer to certain French historians, such as La Villemarqué, Achille Jubinal, Pierre Lalo and Louis Madelin, or foreign historians, such as Alfred Métraux, K.J. Conant or Aleksander Gieysztor, who audited some of the lessons at the École des chartes, or to Auguste Poulet-Malassis, José-Maria de Heredia and François Mauriac, who were registered as students but who never completed their studies.\n\n\n\n"}
