{"id": "7851105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7851105", "title": "A Nation at Risk", "text": "A Nation at Risk\n\nA Nation at Risk: The Imperative for Educational Reform is the 1983 report of American President Ronald Reagan's National Commission on Excellence in Education. Its publication is considered a landmark event in modern American educational history. Among other things, the report contributed to the ever-growing assertion that American schools were failing, and it touched off a wave of local, state, and federal reform efforts.\n\nThe commission consisted of 18 members, drawn from the private sector, government, and education. The chair of the commission was David Pierpont Gardner. Secretary of Education T. H. Bell sought to have the commission be presidentially appointed. Reagan did not concur, and Bell used his own authority as Secretary to establish the commission and appoint its members.\n\nAs implied by the title of the report, the commission's charter responds to Terrel Bell's observation that the United States' educational system was failing to meet the national need for a competitive workforce. Among other things, the charter required the commission to assess the \"quality of teaching and learning\" at the primary, secondary, and postsecondary levels, in both the public and private spheres and to compare \"American schools and colleges with those of other advanced nations.\" The report was primarily authored by James J. Harvey, who synthesized the feedback from the commission members and the memorable language in the opening pages: \"the educational foundations of our society are presently being eroded by a rising tide of mediocrity that threatens our very future as a Nation and a people\" and \"If an unfriendly foreign power had attempted to impose on America the mediocre educational performance that exists today, we might well have viewed it as an act of war.\"\n\nPresidential commissions on education have been relatively common since The Truman Report in 1947. Other notable groups include Dwight Eisenhower's \"Committee on Education Beyond the High School\" (1956), John F. Kennedy's Task Force on Education (1960), and George W. Bush's Commission on the Future of Higher Education, also known as the Spellings Commission, which produced \"A Test of Leadership\" (2006).\n\nThe report surveys various studies which point to academic underachievement on national and international scales. For example, the report notes that average SAT scores dropped \"over 50 points\" in the verbal section and \"nearly 40 points\" in the mathematics section during the period 1963-1980. Nearly forty percent of 17-year-olds tested could not successfully \"draw inferences from written material,\" and \"only one-fifth can write a persuasive essay; and only one-third can solve a mathematics problem requiring several steps.\" Referencing tests conducted in the 1970s, the study points to unfavorable comparisons with students outside the United States: on \"19 academic tests American students were never first or second and, in comparison with other industrialized nations, were last seven times\".\n\nIn response to these and similar problems, the commission made 38 recommendations, divided across 5 major categories: Content, Standards and Expectations, Time, Teaching, Leadership and Fiscal Support:\n\n\n\"A Nation at Risk\" was at odds with several of President Reagan's stated policy initiatives for education: \"voluntary prayer under school auspices, tax credits for tuition payments and abolition of the department of education\".\n\nIn 1990, Admiral James Watkins, the Secretary of Energy, commissioned the Sandia Laboratories in New Mexico to document the decline in the Nation at Risk report with actual data. When the systems scientists broke down the SAT test scores into subgroups they discovered contradictory data. While the overall average scores declined, the subgroups of students increased. In statistics this is known as Simpson's paradox. The three authors presented their report. David Kearns, Deputy Secretary of Education allegedly told the authors of the report, \"You bury this or I'll bury you\" but Diane Ravitch disputes this quote. \"Education Week\" published an article on the Sandia report in 1991. Unlike the \"Nation at Risk\" report, the Sandia Report critique received almost no attention.\n\nOn the 25th anniversary of the release of \"A Nation at Risk\", the organization Strong American Schools released a report card showing progress since the initial report. The organization's analysis said:\n\nWhile the national conversation about education would never be the same, stunningly few of the Commission’s recommendations actually have been enacted. \nNow is not the time for more educational research or reports or commissions. We have enough commonsense\nideas, backed by decades of research, to significantly improve American schools. The missing ingredient isn’t even educational at all. It’s political. Too often, state and local leaders have tried to enact reforms of the kind recommended in A Nation at Risk only to be stymied by organized special interests and political inertia. Without vigorous national leadership to improve education, states and local school systems simply cannot overcome the obstacles to making the big changes necessary to significantly improve our nation’s K-12 schools.\nSalvatore Babones has criticized the composition and competences of the committee:\n\nThe commission included 12 administrators, 1 businessperson, 1 chemist, 1 physicist, 1 politician, 1 conservative activist, and 1 teacher. ... Just one practicing teacher and not a single academic expert on education. It should come as no surprise that a commission dominated by administrators found that the problems of U.S. schools were mainly caused by lazy students and unaccountable teachers. Administrative incompetence was not on the agenda. Nor were poverty, inequality, and racial discrimination.\n"}
{"id": "17718597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17718597", "title": "Academic grading in Nepal", "text": "Academic grading in Nepal\n\nIn Nepal, the grade system is divided into different ways.\n\nThe above grading system refers to the School leaving Certificate (SLC) examinations, held at the end of at grade 10. It is administered by the Department of Education under the Ministry of Education and Sports, Nepal. Different grading systems are currently being implemented by different universities and education boards.\n\nSource:Ministry Of Education\n\n"}
{"id": "5410824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5410824", "title": "Adler v Ontario (AG)", "text": "Adler v Ontario (AG)\n\nAdler v Ontario (AG), [1996] 3 S.C.R. 609 is a leading decision of the Supreme Court of Canada on the nature of the provincial education power and whether there was a constitutional obligation to fund private denominational education. The Court found that Ontario's \"Education Act\" did not violate sections 2(a) or 15(1) of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" or section 93 of the \"Constitution Act, 1867\".\n\nThe guarantees provided for religious freedom under sections 2(a) and religious equality under section 15(1) of the \"Charter\" were used to argue that lack of government funding for Jewish Canadian schools and certain Christian schools in Ontario was unconstitutional, since by contrast Catholic schools received government funding in accordance with section 93 of the \"Constitution Act, 1867\". The court was asked to address two specific constitutional issues:\n\nThe ruled 7-1 on the first question, and 6-2 on the second, that the provisions in question were constitutional. L’Heureux‑Dubé J. dissented on both questions, and McLachlin J. dissented in part on the first question, and in full on the second.\n\nThe majority of the Court held that the provincial education power under section 93 of the \"Constitution Act, 1867\" is plenary, and is not subject to \"Charter\" attack. As Iacobucci J. noted, it is the product of a historical compromise crucial to Confederation and forms a comprehensive code with respect to denominational school rights which cannot be enlarged through the operation of s. 2(a) of the \"Charter\". It does not represent a guarantee of fundamental freedoms. The appellants, given that they cannot bring themselves within the terms of s. 93's guarantees, have no claim to public funding for their schools. To decide otherwise by accepting the appellants' claim that s. 2(a) requires public funding of their dissentient religion‑based schools would be to hold one section of the Constitution violative of another.\n\nThe claim that the government's choice to fund Roman Catholic separate schools but not other religious schools contravened the equality provisions of s. 15(1) of the \"Charter\" should be rejected for two reasons:\n\n\nThere was a difference in interpretation as to how far the education power can extend towards the establishment of other education systems. The majority believed that legislation in respect of education could be subject to Charter scrutiny whenever the government decides to go beyond the confines of this special mandate to fund Roman Catholic separate schools and public schools. Sopinka J., on the other hand, observed that nothing in s. 93(3) restricts extending funding to others. However, when the province exercises its plenary power outside of the areas specified in s. 93(1) and (3), any distinctions violating the \"Charter\" are not \"expressly permitted\" or even contemplated. Legislation in such cases is no different from legislation under any of the heads of s. 92. Giving effect to the \"Charter\" will not invalidate any power conferred by s. 93.\n\nMcLachlin J. stated that Section 93 is not a code ousting the operation of the \"Charter\" and was not intended to do more than guarantee school support for the Roman Catholic or Protestant minorities in Ontario and Quebec respectively. Provinces exercising their plenary powers to provide education services must, subject to this restriction, comply with the \"Charter\". Otherwise, she considered the provisions in question to be constitutional.\n\nL’Heureux‑Dubé J. declared that the only school support guaranteed by s. 93 is that required of Ontario and Quebec to their respective Roman Catholic and Protestant minorities. Provinces exercising their plenary powers to provide education must, subject to this requirement, comply with the Charter. The provisions survived a challenge under Section 2, but ought to fail under Section 15.\n\nBoth Iacobucci J. and Sopinka J. held that the School Health Support Services Program in question is immune from Charter scrutiny, as it is properly characterized as an \"education service\", as opposed to a \"health service\", and thus falls within the plenary education power.\n\nIn dissent, both McLachlin J. and L’Heureux‑Dubé J. felt that the Program should not survive a Section 15 \"Charter\" challenge, as the denial of the health support program to the independent schools is not rationally connected to the objectives of providing universal education without discrimination, and is not justifiable under Section 1.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33687796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33687796", "title": "Armed Police Battalion High School", "text": "Armed Police Battalion High School\n\nArmed Police Battalion School & College is a Higher secondary school at Uttara in the city of Dhaka in Bangladesh.\n\nThe school was founded on 1 January 1996 by Mr. Moinuddin Chisty, a Police High Level Officer of Armed Police Battalion which is a part of Bangladesh Police. It is run by police administration, 5th Armed Police Battalion.\n\nEvery year sports day is observed and many events are played by students as competition. APBHS takes part in Inter High school Football Championship and Inter High school Cricket Championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "11620785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11620785", "title": "B. Jill Carroll", "text": "B. Jill Carroll\n\nDr. B. Jill Carroll is a freelance writer, speaker, scholar and organizational consultant whose first career was as a university professor specializing in world religions and philosophy of religion. She was the Executive Director of the Boniuk Center for the Study and Advancement of Religious Tolerance at Rice University and an adjunct professor of Religious Studies at the university. She resigned from the directorship in June 2009 stating her intentions to continue writing a blog for the Houston Chronicle entitled \"Talking Tolerance\" and staying involved in the leadership of the Amazing Faiths Project which she had founded and directed since 2006. \n\nHer research interests are issues in comparative religion, religion and world politics, and natural theology. For two years she co-hosted with Kym King a regular radio program called \"Peaceful Coexistence\" on Pacifica 90.1FM KPFT in Houston. Podcasts of the show are available at the Boniuk Center website.\n\nIn fall 2011, she published a lifestyle/self-help book called Stop the Crap: Six Lessons to Get Your Life Back. Her first novel, Quail Fried Rice, was published in July 2012.\n\nIn 2011, she began working as a program consultant for the Houston/Gulf Coast chapter of American Leadership Forum. \n\nShe was president and founder of Religiosites, Inc., a company that provided religious diversity training to corporations, groups and individuals.\n\nIn the late 90s she wrote \"The Adjunct Track\", a regular column for the \"Chronicle of Higher Education\". She founded Adjunct Solutions, a consulting service for part-time faculty in North America.\n\n"}
{"id": "7748160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7748160", "title": "CUSPEA", "text": "CUSPEA\n\nCUSPEA (China-U.S. Physics Examination and Application) was an examination and admission system used by the physics departments of some American and Canadian universities for graduate school admission from People's Republic of China between 1979 and 1989. \n\nIt was created by the Chinese-American physicist Tsung-Dao Lee and Chinese physics community as an alternative graduate school admission procedure. At that time in China, higher education was still recovering from the Cultural Revolution; school transcripts and recommendation letters were difficult to evaluate. Furthermore, standardized tests such as the Graduate Record Examination were unavailable in China.\n\nThe CUSPEA exam is in English and has a similar scope to that of Ph.D. written qualifying exams in major American universities. The questions were prepared by physics professors from participating North American universities -- starting with Columbia University where Lee worked, and eventually expanded to 97 universities. Committees of physicists in China administer and grade the exams. The examinees are usually senior physics majors from top-ranking Chinese universities. Those who passed the exam are followed up by an interview by a small American delegation. The final admission depends on mutual agreement between the applicant and participating physics departments.\n\nAbout 100 Chinese students went to the US every year through the CUSPEA exams, and the total number is 915. Over the years, the three universities with the most students passed the exam are (numbers in the parentheses indicate the numbers of students) University of Science and Technology of China (218), Peking University (206) and Fudan University (127).\n\nCUSPEA was so successful that other similar exams soon were created, such as CUSBEA for biochemistry and \"Shiing-Shen Chern Project\" (陈省身项目) for mathematics. All were stopped in the late 80s in favor of more standard exams.\n\nIn the early years in 1990s, after several years of suspension of the CUSPEA exam, a new program called Mini-CUSPEA is created. It is called \"mini\" in the sense that the Chinese university involved is shrunk to one -- Fudan University, and on the side of the U.S., the target is shrunk to three universities: Columbia University, New York University, and the City University of New York. \n\nEvery year, about 6-10 students are selected through the written exams and the interviews similar to the ones used in the time of CUSPEA, and they are admitted by the above three U.S. universities. Once admitted, the usual requirements for TOEFL and GRE for Chinese students are waived for the Mini-CUSPEA participants.\n\nSince 2007, the Mini-CUSPEA has started to expand. The Chinese universities involved are not only Fudan, but also including Peking University, Tsinghua University, and some other top universities. In the US side, the expansion is also planned.\n\n"}
{"id": "1022901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1022901", "title": "Centre for the Talented Youth of Ireland", "text": "Centre for the Talented Youth of Ireland\n\nThe Centre for the Talented Youth of Ireland (CTYI) is a youth programme for students between the ages of six and seventeen of high academic ability in Ireland, run by Dr. Colm O'Reilly.\n\nThere are sibling projects around the world, most notably the CTY programme at Johns Hopkins University, the original model for CTYI. CTY students are eligible to participate in CTYI's summer sessions for older students. CTYI was founded in 1992 and is based at Dublin City University in Glasnevin, Dublin 9. The centre offers various courses for gifted students as well as conducting research and promoting the needs of the talented in Ireland. \n\nCurrently, it caters for 5,000 students a year \n\nEligibility for CTYI's programmes is based on scores in the School and College Ability Test. Students who score within the top 5th percentile are eligible for the CTY programmes, and those who score within the top 15th percentile are eligible for the CAT programmes. \n\nCTYI also allows for bright and motivated students to partake in courses such as the correspondence course, and scholarships can be attained for EUE or the secondary school summer programme. Students can also attend on a psychologist's recommendation.\n\nSaturday courses are offered for Primary School students at various colleges and institutes of technology around Ireland throughout the year. There are courses for both the 6–7 age group and the 8–13 group. DCU also run classes on Wednesday afternoons.\n\nA summer programme for 12-17 year-olds (1st - 5th Year) as part of CAT or CTY runs only at DCU. These courses give students the opportunity to study college-style and college levelled courses intensively for three weeks in the summer in one of two sessions, each of which lasts three weeks.\n\nBecause of the Irish financial situation up until recently, fewer people were been able to afford the steep cost of the programme, especially since the Government cut CTYI's funding in 2009. Since, students can now attend both sessions of the course, and the age bracket has been increased to include up to age seventeen. \n\nSome of the students at the summer programme come from overseas, mostly from continental countries such as Spain, Portugal, and Italy. Owing to the intensive nature of the programme, most of the 190–250 students who attend each session are residential, living in student accommodation for the duration of the course. However, students can also commute, attending the course as the residential students do but going home at the end of the day and returning in the morning.\n\nIn 2018, the following courses were offered;\n\n\nNote that the CAT (85th to 95th percentile) version of the program ends after two weeks and so has a slightly different course matter.\n\nWeekdays in the summer programme are highly structured. Classes run from 9am to 3pm, with an hour's break for lunch. Activities take place from 3.15pm to 5pm, supervised by the residential assistants (RAs). Between 5pm and 6:30pm students have dinner and are required to attend a meeting with their RA group. 6:30pm to 8:30pm is taken up by the study period, which is supervised by the teaching assistant. Social time takes place between 8:30pm and 10pm, with lights-out at 10.30pm.\n\nOn weekends, social activities such as discos, shopping trips, visits to the cinema, excursions to various interesting sights in Ireland, talent shows, mock casino nights and so on are organised.\n\nEUE is a programme for Transition Year students in secondary school. Like the summer programme, it runs on DCU's campus, with students covering two modules (equivalent to what a first year college student in DCU would study) over a school semester, one day a week each week (usually Fridays). In 2018 subjects included Law & Politics, Business, Engineering, and Psychology. EUE is open to CAT and CTY qualifying students.\n\nThe centre runs correspondence courses throughout the year for 12- to 16-year-olds and also for Transition Year students who do not have to fulfil any aptitude test requirements. Courses include or have included Writing By Mail, Journalism, Psychology, Philosophy, Legal Studies, and Science of Tomorrow. There are also correspondence courses for younger students (8–13) in computing-related subjects and Writing By Mail.\n\nDr. Colm O'Reilly – Director\n\nEleanor Healion – Academic Coordinator\n\nCatriona Fitzgerald – Academic Coordinator/Residential Coordinator\n\nAs the on-site programmes available for students are part-time and/or short-term, most of the staff associated with these programmes are contracted for a set period of time. Residential staff are hired for either 3 or 6 weeks (summer programme only) while academic staff are hired for 3 weeks, 6 weeks, or on a part-time basis during the year (e.g. an eight-week Saturday course).\n\nThese staff (usually 2, 1 male and 1 female) are responsible for the care of the students at CTYI during the 12–17 summer courses. They live in the residences with the students and are the highest-ranking staff members when Catriona and Colm are absent (e.g., at night). They are in charge of the RAs also. ARCs are often ex-RAs, who return to hold a higher point of authority. An ARC may hold the position for a number of years running, one of the current ARCs named Mary Heslin has held the position for 4 years running.\n\nRAs are responsible for the care their RA group (normally a group of 18–22 students) and they report to the ARCs. Any residential students will bring up issues with their RAs. They may also act as mentors to the students if they are having problems settling in. Typically there is a mix between former CTYI students and those who have not attended the programme.\n\nInstructors are generally professionals who are willing to give up 3 weeks of a year to work with CTYI's students. They are hired on the basis of specialist knowledge in a particular field and a rapport with young people. Some are former CTYI students and/or have worked on the programme as RAs or TAs.\n\nA TA's primary function is to assist the instructor during class time and supervision and assisting students during study period.\n\nOn the part-time programmes during the year, additional administrative staff are hired to co-ordinate Saturday programmes.\n\nIt was announced in the post-crash 2009 Irish Government Budget that the government would not continue funding CTYI. Up to 2008 the Department of Education had been providing the course with €97,000. The move was criticised by CTYI staff. However a spokesperson for the Department of Education said that \"the resources available for next year meant that difficult choices had to be made and the abolition of the grant to the Centre for Talented Youth was one of those tough decisions.\" The government had planned to allow CTYI to become a national mandate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8997", "title": "Distance education", "text": "Distance education\n\nDistance education or long-distance learning is the education of students who may not always be physically present at a school. Traditionally, this usually involved correspondence courses wherein the student corresponded with the school via post. Today it involves online education. Courses that are conducted (51 percent or more) are either hybrid, blended or 100% distance learning. Massive open online courses (MOOCs), offering large-scale interactive participation and open access through the World Wide Web or other network technologies, are recent developments in distance education. A number of other terms (distributed learning, e-learning, online learning, virtual classroom etc.) are used roughly synonymously with distance education.\n\nOne of the earliest attempts was advertised in 1728. This was in the \"Boston Gazette\" for \"Caleb Philipps, Teacher of the new method of Short Hand\", who sought students who wanted to learn through weekly mailed lessons.\n\nThe first distance education course in the modern sense was provided by Sir Isaac Pitman in the 1840s, who taught a system of shorthand by mailing texts transcribed into shorthand on postcards and receiving transcriptions from his students in return for correction. The element of student feedback was a crucial innovation of Pitman's system. This scheme was made possible by the introduction of uniform postage rates across England in 1840.\n\nThis early beginning proved extremely successful, and the Phonographic Correspondence Society was founded three years later to establish these courses on a more formal basis. The Society paved the way for the later formation of Sir Isaac Pitman Colleges across the country.\n\nThe first correspondence school in the United States was the Society to Encourage Studies at Home, which was founded in 1873.\n\nThe University of London was the first university to offer distance learning degrees, establishing its External Programme in 1858. The background to this innovation lay in the fact that the institution (later known as University College London) was non-denominational and, given the intense religious rivalries at the time, there was an outcry against the \"godless\" university. The issue soon boiled down to which institutions had degree-granting powers and which institutions did not.\nThe compromise solution that emerged in 1836 was that the sole authority to conduct the examinations leading to degrees would be given to a new officially recognized entity called the \"University of London\", which would act as examining body for the University of London colleges, originally University College London and King's College London, and award their students University of London degrees. As Sheldon Rothblatt states: \"Thus arose in nearly archetypal form the famous English distinction between teaching and examining, here embodied in separate institutions.\"\n\nWith the state giving examining powers to a separate entity, the groundwork was laid for the creation of a programme within the new university which would both administer examinations and award qualifications to students taking instruction at another institution or pursuing a course of self-directed study.\n\nReferred to as \"People's University\" by Charles Dickens because it provided access to higher education to students from less affluent backgrounds, the External Programme was chartered by Queen Victoria in 1858, making the University of London the first university to offer distance learning degrees to students. Enrollment increased steadily during the late 19th century, and its example was widely copied elsewhere. This program is now known as the University of London International Programme and includes Postgraduate, Undergraduate and Diploma degrees created by colleges such as the London School of Economics, Royal Holloway and Goldsmiths.\nIn the United States, William Rainey Harper, first president of the University of Chicago, celebrated the concept of extended education, whereby the research university had satellite colleges in the wider community.\n\nIn 1892, Harper encouraged correspondence courses to further promote education, an idea that was put into practice by Chicago, Wisconsin, Columbia, and several dozen other universities by the 1920s Columbia University. Enrollment in the largest private for-profit school based in Scranton, Pennsylvania, the International Correspondence Schools grew explosively in the 1890s. Founded in 1888 to provide training for immigrant coal miners aiming to become state mine inspectors or foremen, it enrolled 2500 new students in 1894 and matriculated 72,000 new students in 1895. By 1906 total enrollments reached 900,000. The growth was due to sending out complete textbooks instead of single lessons, and the use of 1200 aggressive in-person salesmen. There was a stark contrast in pedagogy:\n\nEducation was a high priority in the Progressive Era, as American high schools and colleges expanded greatly. For men who were older or were too busy with family responsibilities, night schools were opened, such as the YMCA school in Boston that became Northeastern University. Outside the big cities, private correspondence schools offered a flexible, narrowly focused solution. Large corporations systematized their training programs for new employees. The National Association of Corporation Schools grew from 37 in 1913 to 146 in 1920. Starting in the 1880s, private schools opened across the country which offered specialized technical training to anyone who enrolled, not just the employees of one company. Starting in Milwaukee in 1907, public schools began opening free vocational programs.\n\nOnly a third of the American population lived in cities of 100,000 or more population In 1920; to reach the rest, correspondence techniques had to be adopted. Australia, with its vast distances, was especially active; the University of Queensland established its Department of Correspondence Studies in 1911. In South Africa, the University of South Africa, formerly an examining and certification body, started to present distance education tuition in 1946. The International Conference for Correspondence Education held its first meeting in 1938. The goal was to provide individualized education for students, at low cost, by using a pedagogy of testing, recording, classification, and differentiation.\n\nThe Open University in the United Kingdom was founded by the-then Labour government led by Prime Minister, Harold Wilson, based on the vision of Michael Young. Planning commenced in 1965 under the Minister of State for Education, Jennie Lee, who established a model for the Open University (OU) as one of widening access to the highest standards of scholarship in higher education, and set up a planning committee consisting of university vice-chancellors, educationalists and television broadcasters, chaired by Sir Peter Venables. The British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) Assistant Director of Engineering at the time, James Redmond, had obtained most of his qualifications at night school, and his natural enthusiasm for the project did much to overcome the technical difficulties of using television to broadcast teaching programmes.\n\nThe Open University revolutionised the scope of the correspondence program and helped to create a respectable learning alternative to the traditional form of education. It has been at the forefront of developing new technologies to improve the distance learning service as well as undertaking research in other disciplines. Walter Perry was appointed the OU's first vice-chancellor in January 1969, and its foundation secretary was Anastasios Christodoulou. The election of the new Conservative government under the leadership of Edward Heath, in 1970; led to budget cuts under Chancellor of the Exchequer Iain Macleod (who had earlier called the idea of an Open University \"blithering nonsense\"). However, the OU accepted its first 25,000 students in 1971, adopting a radical open admissions policy. At the time, the total student population of conventional universities in the United Kingdom was around 130,000.\n\nAthabasca University, Canada's Open University, was created in 1970 and followed a similar, though independently developed, pattern. The Open University inspired the creation of Spain's National University of Distance Education (1972) and Germany's FernUniversität in Hagen (1974). There are now many similar institutions around the world, often with the name \"Open University\" (in English or in the local language).\n\nMost open universities use distance education technologies as delivery methods, though some require attendance at local study centres or at regional \"summer schools\". Some open universities have grown to become \"mega-universities\", a term coined to denote institutions with more than 100,000 students.\n\nInternet technology has enabled many forms of distance learning through open educational resources and facilities such as e-learning and MOOCs. Although the expansion of the Internet blurs the boundaries, distance education technologies are divided into two modes of delivery: synchronous learning and asynchronous learning.\n\nIn synchronous learning, all participants are \"present\" at the same time. In this regard, it resembles traditional classroom teaching methods despite the participants being located remotely. It requires a timetable to be organized. Web conferencing, videoconferencing, educational television, instructional television are examples of synchronous technology, as are direct-broadcast satellite (DBS), internet radio, live streaming, telephone, and web-based VoIP.\nWeb conferencing software helps to facilitate meetings in distance learning courses and usually contain additional interaction tools such as text chat, polls, hand raising, emoticons etc. These tools also support asynchronous participation by students being able to listen to recordings of synchronous sessions. Immersive environments (notably SecondLife) have also been used to enhance participant presence in distance education courses. Another form of synchronous learning that has been entering the classroom over the last couple of years is the use of robot proxies including those that allow sick students to attend classes.\n\nSome universities have been starting to use robot proxies to enable more engaging synchronous hybrid classes where both remote and in person students can be present and interact using telerobotics devices such as the Kubi Telepresence robot stand that looks around and the Double Robot that roams around. With these telepresence robots, the remote students have a seat at the table or desk instead of being on a screen on the wall.\n\nIn asynchronous learning, participants access course materials flexibly on their own schedules. Students are not required to be together at the same time. Mail correspondence, which is the oldest form of distance education, is an asynchronous delivery technology, as are message board forums, e-mail, video and audio recordings, print materials, voicemail, and fax.\n\nThe two methods can be combined. Many courses offered by both open universities and an increasing number of campus based institutions use periodic sessions of residential or day teaching to supplement the sessions delivered at a distance. This type of mixed distance and campus based education has recently come to be called \"blended learning\" or less often \"hybrid learning\". Many open universities uses a blend of technologies and a blend of learning modalities (face-to-face, distance, and hybrid) all under the rubric of \"distance learning\".\n\nDistance learning can also use interactive radio instruction (IRI), interactive audio instruction (IAI), online virtual worlds, digital games, webinars, and webcasts, all of which are referred to as e-Learning.\n\nThe rapid spread of film in the 1920s and radio in the 1930s led to proposals to use it for distance education. By 1938, at least 200 city school systems, 25 state boards of education, and many colleges and universities broadcast educational programs for the public schools. One line of thought was to use radio as a master teacher.\n\nA typical setup came in Kentucky in 1948 when John Wilkinson Taylor, president of the University of Louisville, teamed up with NBC to use radio as a medium for distance education, The chairman of the Federal Communications Commission endorsed the project and predicted that the \"college-by-radio\" would put \"American education 25 years ahead\". The University was owned by the city, and local residents would pay the low tuition rates, receive their study materials in the mail, and listen by radio to live classroom discussions that were held on campus. Physicist Daniel Q. Posin also was a pioneer in the field of distance education when he hosted a televised course through DePaul University.\n\nCharles Wedemeyer of the University of Wisconsin–Madison also promoted new methods. From 1964 to 1968, the Carnegie Foundation funded Wedemeyer's \"Articulated Instructional Media Project\" (AIM) which brought in a variety of communications technologies aimed at providing learning to an off-campus population. The radio courses faded away in the 1950s. Many efforts to use television along the same lines proved unsuccessful, despite heavy funding by the Ford Foundation.\n\nFrom 1970 to 1972 the Coordinating Commission for Higher Education in California funded Project Outreach to study the potential of telecourses. The study included the University of California, California State University and the community colleges. This study led to coordinated instructional systems legislation allowing the use of public funds for non-classroom instruction and paved the way for the emergence of telecourses as the precursor to the online courses and programs of today. The Coastline Community Colleges, The Dallas County Community College District, and Miami Dade Community College led the way. The \"Adult Learning Service\" of the US Public Broadcasting Service came into being and the “wrapped” series, and individually produced telecourse for credit became a significant part of the history of distance education and online learning.\n\nThe widespread use of computers and the internet have made distance learning easier and faster, and today virtual schools and virtual universities deliver full curricula online. The capacity of Internet to support voice, video, text and immersion teaching methods made earlier distinct forms of telephone, videoconferencing, radio, television, and text based education somewhat redundant. However, many of the techniques developed and lessons learned with earlier media are used in Internet delivery.\n\nThe first completely online courses for graduate credit were offered by Connected Education, starting in the Fall of 1985, leading to the MA in Media Studies from The New School.\nThe first new and fully online university was founded in 1994 as the Open University of Catalonia, headquartered in Barcelona, Spain. In 1999 Jones International University was launched as the first fully online university accredited by a regional accrediting association in the US.\n\nBetween 2000 and 2008, enrollment in distance education courses increased rapidly in almost every country in both developed and developing countries. Many private, public, non-profit and for-profit institutions worldwide now offer distance education courses from the most basic instruction through to the highest levels of degree and doctoral programs. New York University, International University Canada, for example, offers online degrees in engineering and management-related fields through NYU Tandon Online. Levels of accreditation vary: widely respected universities such as Stanford University and Harvard now deliver online courses—but other online schools receive little outside oversight, and some are actually fraudulent, i.e., diploma mills. In the US, the Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC) specializes in the accreditation of distance education institutions.\n\nIn the United States in 2011, it was found that a third of all the students enrolled in postsecondary education had taken an accredited online course in a postsecondary institution. Even though growth rates are slowing, enrollment for online courses has been seen to increase with the advance in technology. The majority of public and private colleges now offer full academic programs online. These include, but are not limited to, training programs in the mental health, occupational therapy, family therapy, art therapy, physical therapy, and rehabilitation counseling fields. Even engineering courses that require the manipulation and control of machines and robots that are technically more challenging to learn remotely are subject to distance learning through the internet.\n\nDistance education has a long history, but its popularity and use has grown exponentially as more advanced technology has become available. By 2008, online learning programs were available in the United States in 44 states at the K-12 level.\n\nInternet forums, online discussion group and online learning community can contribute to an efficacious distance education experience. Research shows that socialization plays an important role in some forms of distance education.\n\nE-courses are also a viable option for distance learning. There are many available that cover a broad range of topics.\n\nDistance education can be delivered in a paced format similar to traditional campus based models in which learners commence and complete a course at the same time. Paced delivery is currently the most common mode of distance education delivery. Alternatively, some institutions offer self-paced programs that allow for continuous enrollment and the length of time to complete the course is set by the learner's time, skill and commitment levels. Paced courses may be offered in either synchronus mode, but self-paced courses are almost always offered asynchronously. Each delivery model offers both advantages and disadvantages for students, teachers and institutions.\n\nKaplan and Haenlein classify distance education into four groups along the dimensions Time dependency and Number of participants: 1) MOOCs (Massive Open Online Courses): Open-access online course (i.e., without specific participation restrictions) that allows for unlimited (massive) participation; 2) SPOCs (Small Private Online Courses): Online course that only offers a limited number of places and therefore requires some form of formal enrollment; 3) SMOCs (Synchronous Massive Online Courses): Open-access online course that allows for unlimited participation but requires students to be \"present\" at the same time (synchronously); 4) SSOCs (Synchronous Private Online Courses): Online course that only offers a limited number of places and requires students to be \"present\" at the same time (synchronously).\n\nPaced models are a familiar mode as they are used almost exclusively in campus based schools. Institutes that offer both distance and campus programs usually use paced models as teacher workload, student semester planning, tuition deadlines, exam schedules and other administrative details can be synchronized with campus delivery. Student familiarity and the pressure of deadlines encourages students to readily adapt to and usually succeed in paced models. However, student freedom is sacrificed as a common pace is often too fast for some students and too slow for others. In addition life events, professional or family responsibilities can interfere with a students capability to complete tasks to an external schedule. Finally, paced models allows students to readily form communities of inquiry and to engage in collaborative work.\n\nSelf-paced courses maximize student freedom, as not only can students commence studies on any date, but they can complete a course in as little time as a few weeks or up to a year or longer. Students often enroll in self-paced study when they are under pressure to complete programs, have not been able to complete a scheduled course, need additional courses or have pressure which precludes regular study for any length of time. The self-paced nature of the programming, though is an unfamiliar model for many students and can lead to excessive procrastination resulting in course incompletion. Assessment of learning can also be challenging as exams can be written on any day, making it possible for students to share examination questions with resulting loss of academic integrity. Finally, it is extremely challenging to organize collaborative work activities, though some schools are developing cooperative models based upon networked and connectivist pedagogies, for use in self-paced programs.\n\nDistance learning can expand access to education and training for both general populace and businesses since its flexible scheduling structure lessens the effects of the many time-constraints imposed by personal responsibilities and commitments. Devolving some activities off-site alleviates institutional capacity constraints arising from the traditional demand on institutional buildings and infrastructure. Furthermore, there is the potential for increased access to more experts in the field and to other students from diverse geographical, social, cultural, economic, and experiential backgrounds.\nAs the population at large becomes more involved in lifelong learning beyond the normal schooling age, institutions can benefit financially, and adult learning business courses may be particularly lucrative. Distance education programs can act as a catalyst for institutional innovation and are at least as effective as face-to-face learning programs, especially if the instructor is knowledgeable and skilled.\n\nDistance education can also provide a broader method of communication within the realm of education. With the many tools and programs that technological advancements have to offer, communication appears to increase in distance education amongst students and their professors, as well as students and their classmates. The distance educational increase in communication, particularly communication amongst students and their classmates, is an improvement that has been made to provide distance education students with as many of the opportunities as possible as they would receive in in-person education. The improvement being made in distance education is growing in tandem with the constant technological advancements. Present-day online communication allows students to associate with accredited schools and programs throughout the world that are out of reach for in-person learning. By having the opportunity to be involved in global institutions via distance education, a diverse array of thought is presented to students through communication with their classmates. This is beneficial because students have the opportunity to \"combine new opinions with their own, and develop a solid foundation for learning\". It has been shown through research that \"as learners become aware of the variations in interpretation and construction of meaning among a range of people [they] construct an individual meaning\", which can help students become knowledgeable of a wide array of viewpoints in education. To increase the likelihood that students will build effective ties with one another during the course, instructors should use similar assignments for students across different locations to overcome the influence of co-location on relationship building.\n\nThe high cost of education affects students in higher education, to which distance education may be an alternative in order to provide some relief. Distance education has been a more cost-effective form of learning, and can sometimes save students a significant amount of money as opposed to traditional education. Distance education may be able to help to save students a considerable amount financially by removing the cost of transportation. In addition, distance education may be able to save students from the economic burden of high-priced course textbooks. Many textbooks are now available as electronic textbooks, known as e-textbooks, which can offer digital textbooks for a reduced price in comparison to traditional textbooks. Also, the increasing improvements in technology have resulted in many school libraries having a partnership with digital publishers that offer course materials for free, which can help students significantly with educational costs.\n\nWithin the class, students are able to learn in ways that traditional classrooms would not be able to provide. It is able to promote good learning experiences and therefore, allow students to obtain higher satisfaction with their online learning. For example, students can review their lessons more than once according to their need. Students can then manipulate the coursework to fit their learning by focusing more on their weaker topics while breezing through concepts that they already have or can easily grasp. When course design and the learning environment are at their optimal conditions, distance education can lead students to higher satisfaction with their learning experiences. Studies have shown that high satisfaction correlates to increased learning. For those in a healthcare or mental health distance learning program, online-based interactions have the potential to foster deeper reflections and discussions of client issues as well as a quicker response to client issues, since supervision happens on a regular basis and is not limited to a weekly supervision meeting. This also may contribute to the students feeling a greater sense of support, since they have ongoing and regular access to their instructors and other students.\n\nDistance learning may enable students who are unable to attend a traditional school setting, due to disability or illness such as decreased mobility and immune system suppression, to get a good education. Children who are sick or are unable to attend classes are able to attend them in \"person\" through the use of robot proxies. This helps the students have experiences of the classroom and social interaction that they are unable to receive at home or the hospital, while still keeping them in a safe learning environment. Over the last few years more students are entering safely back into the classroom thanks to the help of robots. An article from the \"New York Times\", \"A Swiveling Proxy Will Even Wear a Tutu\", explains the positive impact of virtual learning in the classroom, and another that explains how even a simple, stationary telepresence robot can help.\nDistance education may provide equal access regardless of socioeconomic status or income, area of residence, gender, race, age, or cost per student. Applying universal design strategies to distance learning courses as they are being developed (rather than instituting accommodations for specific students on an as-needed basis) can increase the accessibility of such courses to students with a range of abilities, disabilities, learning styles, and native languages.\nDistance education graduates, who would never have been associated with the school under a traditional system, may donate money to the school.\n\nDistance learning may also offer a final opportunity for adolescents that are no longer permitted in the general education population due to behavior disorders. Instead of these students having no other academic opportunities, they may continue their education from their homes and earn their diplomas, offering them another chance to be an integral part of society.\n\nDistance Learning offers individuals a unique opportunity to benefit from the expertise and resources of the best Universities currently available. Students have the ability to collaborate, share, question, infer and suggest new methods and techniques for continuous improvement of the content. The ability to complete a course at a t pace that is appropriate for each individual is the most effective manner to learn given the personal demands on time and schedule. Self-paced distance learning on a mobile device such is a smartphone provides maximum flexibility and capability.\n\nBarriers to effective distance education include obstacles such as domestic distractions and unreliable technology, as well as students' program costs, adequate contact with teachers and support services, and a need for more experience.\n\nSome students attempt to participate in distance education without proper training with the tools needed to be successful in the program. Students must be provided with training opportunities (if needed) on each tool that is used throughout the program. The lack of advanced technology skills can lead to an unsuccessful experience. Schools have a responsibility to adopt a proactive policy for managing technology barriers. Time management skills and self-discipline in distance education is just as important as complete knowledge of the software and tools being used for learning.\n\nThe results of a study of Washington state community college students showed that distance learning students tended to drop out more often than their traditional counterparts due to difficulties in language, time management, and study skills.\n\nAccording to Dr. Pankaj Singhm, director of Nims University, \"distance learning benefits may outweigh the disadvantages for students in such a technology-driven society; however before indulging into use of educational technology a few more disadvantages should be considered.\" He describes that over multiple years, \"all of the obstacles have been overcome and the world environment for distance education continues to improve.\" Dr. Pankaj Singhm also claims there is a debate to distance education stating, \"due to a lack of direct face-to-face social interaction. However, as more people become used to personal and social interaction online (for example dating, chat rooms, shopping, or blogging), it is becoming easier for learners to both project themselves and socialize with others. This is an obstacle that has dissipated.\"\n\nNot all courses required to complete a degree may be offered online. Health care profession programs in particular, require some sort of patient interaction through field work before a student may graduate. Studies have also shown that students pursuing a medical professional graduate degree who are participating in distance education courses, favor face to face communication over professor-mediated chat rooms and/or independent studies. However, this is little correlation between student performance when comparing the previous different distance learning strategies.\n\nThere is a theoretical problem about the application of traditional teaching methods to online courses because online courses may have no upper size limit. Daniel Barwick noted that there is no evidence that large class size is always worse or that small class size is always better, although a negative link has been established between certain types of instruction in large classes and learning outcomes; he argued that higher education has not made a sufficient effort to experiment with a variety of instructional methods to determine whether large class size is always negatively correlated with a reduction in learning outcomes. Early proponents of Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC)s saw them as just the type of experiment that Barwick had pointed out was lacking in higher education, although Barwick himself has never advocated for MOOCs.\n\nThere may also be institutional challenges. Distance learning is new enough that it may be a challenge to gain support for these programs in a traditional brick-and-mortar academic learning environment. Furthermore, it may be more difficult for the instructor to organize and plan a distance learning program, especially since many are new programs and their organizational needs are different from a traditional learning program.\n\nAdditionally, though distance education offers industrial countries the opportunity to become globally informed, there are still negative sides to it. Hellman states that \"These include its cost and capital intensiveness, time constraints and other pressures on instructors, the isolation of students from instructors and their peers, instructors’ enormous difficulty in adequately evaluating students they never meet face-to-face, and drop-out rates far higher than in classroom-based courses.\"\n\nA more complex challenge of distance education relates to cultural differences between student and teachers and among students. Distance programmes tend to be more diverse as they could go beyond the geographical borders of regions, countries, and continents, and cross the cultural borders that may exist with respect to race, gender, and religion. That requires a proper understanding and awareness of the norms, differences, preconceptions and potential conflicting issues.\n\nThe modern use of electronic educational technology (also called e-learning) facilitates distance learning and independent learning by the extensive use of information and communications technology (ICT), replacing traditional content delivery by postal correspondence. Instruction can be synchronous and asynchronous online communication in an interactive learning environment or virtual communities, in lieu of a physical classroom. \"The focus is shifted to the education transaction in the form of virtual community of learners sustainable across time.\"\n\nOne of the most significant issues encountered in the mainstream correspondence model of distance education is transactional distance, which results from the lack of appropriate communication between learner and teacher. This gap has been observed to become wider if there is no communication between the learner and teacher and has direct implications over the learning process and future endeavors in distance education. Distance education providers began to introduce various strategies, techniques, and procedures to increase the amount of interaction between learner and teacher. These measures e.g. more frequent face-to-face tutorials, increased use of information and communication technologies including teleconferencing and the Internet, were designed to close the gap in transactional distance.\n\nOnline credentials for learning are digital credentials that are offered in place of traditional paper credentials for a skill or educational achievement. Directly linked to the accelerated development of internet communication technologies, the development of digital badges, electronic passports and massive open online courses (MOOCs) have a very direct bearing on our understanding of learning, recognition and levels as they pose a direct challenge to the status quo. It is useful to distinguish between three forms of online credentials: Test-based credentials, online badges, and online certificates.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46928120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46928120", "title": "Driving-Tests.org", "text": "Driving-Tests.org\n\nDriving-Tests.org is resource website that provides practice tests for the field of driver's education. Founded in 2008, the site provides United States specific online testing for all 50 states and has also been used to develop additional websites for testing in the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, and New Zealand. It is best known for its nonprofit and academic partnerships where it provides free practice testing sites for libraries and other organizations. It is attributed as the only website to offer practice tests based on real Department of Motor Vehicles examinations.\n\nDriving-Tests.org was founded in 2008 by Andrei Zakhareuski and Maryna Zakhareuskaya under the company name of Elegant E-Learning, Inc. The site was originally launched offering simulation software for electronic permit tests for the United States. The website has sponsored various studies that have led to national driver's safety campaigns including Parent-Teen Driving Contract and the Distraction-Free Driving Pledge.\n\nThe website provides state-specific practice tests. Driving-tests.org contains various practice tests categorized by difficulty level, each having a unique number of questions. The test format includes multiple choice, as well as those that render the explanation immediately. Students are able to review specific topics covered in their drivers' exams, such as road signs. The site also provides driver's license manuals for each state in English as well as in Spanish. Practice examinations are available for car, motorcycle, and CDL vehicles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2805394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2805394", "title": "Education in Kenya", "text": "Education in Kenya\n\nEducation in Kenya refers to the education system in Kenya.\n\nThe current education system is organized into five main levels:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHistorical records not only from the travels of Johann Ludwig Krapf and Johannes Rebmann reveal that Kenyans had access to education as far back as 1728 with a Swahili manuscript \"Utendi wa Tambuka\" (Book of Heraclius) attesting to the fact. The CMS missionaries interacted with locals in the coastal town of Mombasa and set up one of the earliest mission schools in the country at Rabai in 1846.\n\nWith the expansion of the railway from Mombasa to Uganda, the missionaries expanded their work into Kenya's interior. An attempt to set up a school and mission at Yatta in 1894 was resisted by the Kamba tribe. The missionaries then penetrated into western Kenya and set up schools and missions. The first school in western Kenya was established at Kaimosi in 1902. During the colonial era, the number of Kenyans with exposure to education steadily increased and a good number of them were privileged to proceed abroad for further education.\n\nAmong those who furthered their education abroad in the colonial era were Jomo Kenyatta, who attended Woodbrooke College and London School of Economics, Charles Njonjo, who attended Grays Inn Law School, Peter Mbiyu Koinange, who attended Columbia University, Mwai Kibaki who attended London School of Economics, R. Mugo Gatheru who attended Roosevelt University, Tom Mboya, who attended Ruskin College, Oxford, Masinde Muliro, who attended University of Cape Town, Julius Gikonyo Kiano who attended Stanford University, Paul Ngei and Barack Obama Sr., who attended the University of Hawaii at Manoa.\n\nJulius Gikonyo Kiano was the first Kenyan to obtain a PhD. He returned to Kenya and was instrumental in establishing a school in Githunguri. The trend steadily rose over the years and by the time of independence in 1963, 840,000 African children were attending elementary school.\n\n\nKenya began a campaign for free primary education after independence in 1963. Since then, the system of education has undergone transformation twice. Before independence elementary education was based on the colonial system of education.\n\nIn 1967, Kenya, with Uganda and Tanzania, formed the East African Community. The three countries adopted a single system of education, the 7–4–2–3, which consisted of 7 years of primary education, 4 years of secondary education, 2 years of high school and 3–5 years of university education. Under the system, which was similar to the British system of education, children began their elementary (primary) education at the age of 7 and completed at the age of 13 after sitting for a regional examination known as the East African Certificate of Primary Education (EACPE).\n\nAfter primary education those who passed very well proceeded to secondary school which ended four years later with the writing of the East African Certificate of Education examination (EACE). The highest level of education that qualified one to attend university was attained after two years of high school at that time distinct from secondary school with students sitting for the East African Advanced Certificate of Education (EAACE).\n\nWith the collapse of the East African community in 1977, Kenya continued with the same system of education but changed the examination names from their regional identity to a national identity. The East African Certificate of Primary Education became the Certificate of Primary Education (CPE), the first time the C.P.E was marked by a computer system, the East African Certificate of Education became the Kenya Certificate of Education (KCE) and the East African Advanced Certificate of Education became the Kenya Advanced Certificate of Education (KACE).\n\nIn 1985 President Daniel arap Moi, introduced the 8–4–4 system of education, which adopted 8 years of primary education, 4 years of secondary education and 4 years of university education. With the introduction of the 8–4–4 system CPE became KCPE (Kenya Certificate of Primary Education) while KCE became the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE).\n\nSince 1985, public education in Kenya has been based on an 8–4–4 system, with eight years of primary education followed by four years of secondary school and four years of college or university.\nTo date, there has been steady growth in the advancement of education in the country. the country boasts of a great number of public and private universities as well as middle-level colleges.\n\nSome private schools, however, offer a system of education similar to the British system of education with ordinary level exams, \"O-levels\" taken at the end of 4 years of secondary school and advanced levels \"A-levels\", taken after two years of high school.\n\nOut of all children in Kenya about 85 percent attend primary school. 75 percent of those who complete primary education proceed to secondary schools and 60 percent of those who complete secondary school proceed to higher institutions of education which include business and vocational institutions, national polytechnics, public and private universities within the country. Over 950,000 Kenyans have furthered their education abroad with a majority of graduates from India, UK, Canada, the United States, Russia and Uganda.\n\nEducation quality has recently received a lot of attention in Kenya. The government's main document in this effort, the Kenya Education Sector Support Programme for 2005–2010, established the National Assessment Centre (NAC) to monitor learning achievement. In 2010, the NAC released the results of its first assessment.\n\nIn 2009, in collaboration with the NAC, Uwezo Kenya conducted an assessment of the basic literacy and numeracy skills of children ages 6–16. The Annual Learning Assessment (ALA) reached villages in 70 out of 158 districts in Kenya and assessed nearly 70,000 children in their homes. The ALA was set at a Standard 2 level, which is the level where students are supposed to achieve basic competency in reading English and Kiswahili and complete simple arithmetic problems. The chart below shows the percent of children who could not read a Standard 2 level paragraph or solve Standard 2 level subtraction problems:\n\nKey findings about education in Kenya, based on the results of the Uwezo 2009 assessment:\n\n\nPrimary education in Kenya begins at the age of 5 to 7 after completion of a year of kindergarten commonly known as Nursery School or pre-unit. The first class or year of primary school is known as Standard 1, the final year as Standard 8 and primary school children are known as pupils. The school year at both primary and secondary levels, begins in January and ends in November. Students get 3 school vacations in April, August and December.\n\nAt the end of the school year students advance to the next grade.Since repetition was banned students still progress to the next grade even though they fail their examinations. Most primary schools are day schools with pupils living at home. Fewer schools at primary level are boarding schools compared to secondary schools. All public primary school pupils sit for the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education examination at the end of the school year in Standard eight. In primary school, students are taught English, Kiswahili and Indigenous language activities.\n\nIn January 2003 President Mwai Kibaki re-introduced free primary education which previously existed before the mid 80s when the government adopted cost sharing measures that led to a minor level of school fees charged by primary schools for text books, PTA, and extra curricular activities. Since 2003, education in public schools became free and compulsory ( Kenya Constitution,Article 53, 2010). On learning that primary education had once again become free in Kenya, Kimani Maruge, an uneducated farmer and the world's oldest person to enroll in primary school joined Kapkenduiywo primary school in Eldoret at the age of 84. He was elected head boy at the age of 86 in 2005.\n\nSecondary schools in Kenya fall into three categories – government funded, harambee and private. Government funded schools are divided into national, provincial and district levels. Harambee schools do not receive full funding from the government and private schools are run by private organizations or individuals. After taking the primary school leaving exam and successfully passing, government funded schools select students in order of scores.\n\nStudents with the highest scores gain admission into national schools while those with average scores are selected into provincial and district schools. Harambee schools accept students with low scores. Students who fail their examinations pursue technical and vocational education. The latter is divided into technical secondary school (lasting 4 years) and apprenticeships solutions. Since 2010, technical secondary schools student can have access to university programs. A number of students also drop out of school by choice due to poor scores.\n\nUnder the current system, students attend secondary school for four years before sitting for the school leaving exam at the end of the fourth year. The first class or year of secondary school is known as form 1 and the final year is form 4. At the end of the fourth year, from October to November students sit for the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examination. In 2008, the government introduced plans to offer free Secondary education to all Kenyans.\n\nHistoric prestigious national high schools include Mang'u High School, Alliance High School (Kenya) and Starehe Boys' Centre and School. Private secondary schools in Kenya are generally high cost, offering students an alternative system of education with better or more luxurious facilities compared to public schools. They are often favoured for prestige. Most private schools in Kenya offer the British system of education which includes \"O-levels\" and \"A-levels\". Very few offer the American system of education and good number of them offer the Kenya system. Some of the oldest private schools in Kenya include Loreto Convent Msongari, Nairobi (1921), St. Mary's School, Nairobi, Braeburn School, Consolata School, Strathmore School, Oshwal Academy, Rift Valley Academy, Aga Khan Academy, Kenton College and Brookhouse School,\n\nThe average grade is based on performance in the eight subjects. Where a candidate sits for more than eight subjects, the average grade is based on the best eight subjects. University matriculation is based on the best eight and performance in particular subjects relevant to degree courses.\nExample below:\n\nThe total number of points is 82.\n\nThe average grade is 82 divided by 8, which equals 10.25 (approximately 10.0 points) which is Grade B+ according to the grading system. This student qualifies to join one of the Public Universities for his good score. Training institutions and faculties and departments determine their own minimum entry requirements.\n\nStudents who manage a grade of C+ qualify to do a degree course at the university. Owing to competition, and fewer places at the University, those with B and in a few cases B-, and above are taken for degree courses at the public universities and benefit by paying government-subsidized fees. The rest join private universities or middle-level colleges.\n\nThe number of students admitted to public universities through J.A.B. depends on the total number of beds available in all the public universities. Nonetheless, those who miss out but attained the minimum university entry mark of C+ or C with a relevant diploma certificate are admitted through the parallel degree programmes (module II) if they can afford the full fees for the course.\n\nThis has been the subject of much discussion with people questioning the rationale and morality of locking out qualified students from public institutions yet still admitting those who come from financially able families.\n\nThese are two- or three-year post secondary school institutions also termed colleges. They award certificates, diplomas and higher national diplomas after successful completion of relevant courses. Courses offered by these institutions include Business Education, Accounting, Secretarial Studies, Nursing, Teacher Training, Computer Studies, Journalism, Media, Design, Culinary Studies, Foreign Languages, Tourism and Technical Skills. In order of credibility or accreditation, national polytechnics rank first, followed by government training institutes, teacher training colleges and private institutions. Although generally termed colleges, these institution do not award degrees. Degrees are only awarded by universities.\n\nFrom July 2014, all government and private institutions offering Technical and Vocational Education and Training where put under . this act normalized this sector as it had become tainted by unaccredited institutions offering substandard education as revealed by and As of October 10, 2016 there were 540 isntitutions accredited by the Authority\n\nThere are three types of government TVET institutions in Kenya. these are;National Polytechnics,Technical Institutions and Vocational Education Centers(formerly Youth Polytechnics)\nNotable Institutions include\n\nThere are 48 universities in Kenya, 22 of which are public and 26 private. The University of Nairobi is the oldest public university in Kenya while KAG East university is the oldest among the private universities.\n\nThere are 3 categories of private universities: chartered universities – fully accredited universities, by the Commission for Higher Education; universities, which had been offering degrees long before the establishment of the Commission for Higher Education; and universities authorised to operate with Letters of Interim Authority (LIA).\n\n\n\n\nIn 2003 the Kenyan government promised free primary education to its citizens. In the early 70s primary school fees were abolished but in the mid 80s cost-sharing measures between the government and its citizens led to the re-introduction of minor fee charges by primary schools. As the trend continued with schools requiring parents to pay fees such as PTA, harambee, textbooks, uniforms, caution fees, exam fees and extracurricular activity fees, most parents became overburdened and unable to raise such fees. Those who could not afford the money to pay for their children's school fees often had their children drop out of the school. Many children were also forced to drop out of school when teachers would not allow them to take exams. To pressurize parents to pay fees, schools often sent children home during the final exams.\n\nThe growth of Kenya's education sector has exceeded expectations. After the first university was established in 1970, six other public universities and 23 private universities have been established. Although Kenya has its own universities, some parents prefer to send their children to universities outside the country. This is largely because Kenyan public universities are not as flexible with admission requirements as some foreign universities. Another factor that has been pointed out is that youth with disabilities are facing major obstacles to progress in higher education, and measures as affirmative action or measures tailored to the needs of particular profiles of students could play a relevant role in this.\n\n\n14. List of Primary Schools in Kenya\n\nKenyan State-institutions\n\nData & reports from external institution\n\n"}
{"id": "3523609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3523609", "title": "Education in Oman", "text": "Education in Oman\n\nPre school education is provided to children less than 10 years old. It is offered by the private sector and some public organizations. Supervision is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Nursery enrollment is very limited and estimated to be only 1%. Kindergarten is available mostly in large cities and enrollment is estimated to be 15%.\n\nAttendance usually extends from 8:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m., the teacher being free to organize this period as she deems appropriate between school learning and artistic and leisure activities.\n\nThe Ministry of Education is in the process of finalizing the advanced curriculum for the kindergarten level, based on self-learning as a method and centered on the Omani child and on his/her environment, cultural heritage and civilization.\n\nIn 1997, the ministry began development work on a Basic Education programme to gradually replace the three level General Education system. The aim of the reform is to create a unified system covering the first ten years of schooling. Basic Education is organized into two cycles: the first cycle covers grades 1 to 4 and the second cycle covers grades 5 to 10. These two cycle are followed by two years of post-Basic Education system (secondary education). The first schools started to introduce the new system in the academic year 1998/1999.\n\nLasts for three years or you can graduate at any time.\n\nOman retains a number of grammar schools of international renown and a majority of which are private educational establishments offering Classics beyond Latin and Greek to include the ancient literary studies of Sanskrit, Hebrew and Arabic. Notable ones include Al Sahwa Schools, The American International School of Muscat, Pakistan School Muscat, Pakistan School Salalah, Indian School Muscat, American British Academy, the British School Muscat, the Indian School Al Ghubra and The Sultan's School.\n\nThe Omani higher education system is relatively young, as the first public university in Oman, Sultan Qaboos University was founded in 1986. Prior to the establishment of SQU, the government sent some students to pursue higher education studies in neighboring Arab countries like UAE, Kuwait, Jordan and Egypt. Also some students were awarded scholarships to study in the UK and America.\n\nSQU is self-administered and has nine colleges. The colleges of Arts and Social Sciences, Commerce and Economics, Education, Law, and Nursing offer bachelor's and some master's degrees. Starting from September 2008, SQU began introducing PhD studies in its colleges of Agriculture and Marine Sciences, Medicine and Health Sciences, Engineering, and Science. A bachelor's degree takes about five years, as the first is spent studying English, and the second studying relevant science subjects; the last three years are dedicated to core degree units. A medicine degree takes seven years. The public university is normally visited by Omanis only. Expatriates go - as a general rule - to private universities or study abroad.\n\nOman's Ministry of Higher Education administers the six Colleges of Applied Sciences. These were formerly colleges of education, but in 2005 Royal Decree No. 62/2007 was issued to transform them to better cater to the current labor market in fields such as international business administration, communication, design, engineering, and IT. They are located in Ibri, Nizwa, Salalah, Sohar, Sur, and Rustaq. The College of Applied Sciences in Rustaq is the only one that still offers an education degree. The Ministry also has a department that sanctions private colleges and universities.\n\nOman's Ministry of Manpower operates the Higher College of Technology in Muscat and six colleges of technology in Al-Mussana, Ibra, Ibri, Nizwa, Salalah, and Shinas. The Ministry of Health runs a number of health institutes to prepare assisting medical staff like nurses, paramedics and pharmacists. The Ministry of Awqaf and Religious Affairs sanctions the College of Sharia Sciences. The Central Bank of Oman sanctions the College of Banking and Financial Studies.\n\nAs the number of students finishing secondary school goes up each year (44,000 were expected to finish in 2008), SQU and other public colleges have become unable to cope with the demand. Since private colleges were very limited in the mid nineties, more and more students sought higher education in countries like the UAE, Jordan and Egypt. The government became aware of the trend and decided to encourage the private sector in Oman to form universities and colleges. The first private college was established in 1994. Since this date, a number of private colleges and universities have been started in Oman. Most of them focus on popular studies such as business administration and computer sciences. They are usually affiliated with European, Australian or American institutions. The language of instruction is mainly English. A’Sharqiya University, in Ibra, opened its doors in the fall of 2010.\n\nIn the year 2003, Oman's Ministry of Higher Education approved the merger of five private run colleges in order to form the Muscat University. However, the plan to merge Fire Safety Engineering College, Majan College, Modern College of Business & Science, Middle East College and Mazoon College for Management and Applied Sciences failed (source: Oman Observer 18.7.2005). Currently, there is some talk that the plan to form Muscat University may be revived.\n\nAs part of the eOman initiative, applications for 2006/2007 higher education (public and private) places have been merged under one unified online system (Higher Education Admissions Center). Each higher education institute publishes the minimum entry requirement for each of its degrees and the student selects his or her choices in order of preference. When the Ministry of Education publishes secondary school results in mid July, these results are fed automatically into the system and offers are made in early August. Prior to the new system, the students had to submit their papers to the different institutes by themselves after the publication of results. The process was very inconvenient for the students and the admission departments as there was very little time and students had to travel a lot.\n\n"}
{"id": "10527118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10527118", "title": "Educational video game", "text": "Educational video game\n\nAn educational video game is a video game that provides learning or training value to the player. Edutainment describes an intentional merger of video games and educational software into a single product (and could therefore also comprise more serious titles sometimes described under children's learning software). In the narrower sense used here, the term describes educational software which is primarily about entertainment, but tends to educate as well and sells itself partly under the educational umbrella. Normally software of this kind is not structured towards school curricula and does not involve educational advisors.\n\nEducational video games play a significant role in the school curriculum for teachers who seek to deliver core lessons, reading and new skills. Gamification of education allows learners to take active roles in learning and develop technological skills that are needed for their academic and professional careers. Several recent studies have shown that video games, whether violent or not can help children in the development of intellectual and emotional skills that support their academic achievement (Chang et al., 2009). These findings have made teachers all over the world recognize the numerous benefits of gaming and to include educational video game learning in their curricula.\n\nThere can be also defined strategy war games that include historical references, like the \"Total War\" franchise or the \"Age of Empires\" trilogy and an in-game encyclopaedia like \"Civilization\". These games often integrate education without being explicitly educational. These are games which were originally developed for adults or older children and which have potential learning implications. For the most part, these games provide simulations of different kinds of human activities, allowing players to explore a variety of social, historical and economic processes.\n\nExamples:\n\nThe games have been enthusiastically received in some educational circles and are mentioned into academic literature.\n\nA new category was recently started by \"Bot Colony\" (2013). It can be used to practice English dialogue by conversing with intelligent robots as part of an adventure game.\n\nMany titles were developed and released from the mid-1990s onwards, aimed primarily at the home education of young children. Later iterations of these titles often began to link educational content to school curricula such as England's National Curriculum. The design of educational games for home use has been influenced by gaming concepts – they are designed to be fun and educational.\n\nExamples of children's learning software which have a structured pedagogical approach, usually orientated towards literacy and numeracy skills.\n\nIn September 1983 the \"Boston Phoenix\" reported that \"edutainment\" games were a new focus area for companies after end of growth of the Atari 2600 software market. In 1983, the term \"edutainment\" was used to describe a package of software games for the Oric 1 and Spectrum Microcomputers in the UK. Dubbed \"arcade edutainment\" an advertisement for the package can be found in various issues of \"Your Computer\" magazine from 1983. The software package was available from Telford ITEC a government sponsored training program. The originator of the name was Chris Harvey who worked at ITEC at the time.\n\nSince then, many other computer games such as Electronic Arts's \"Seven Cities of Gold\", released 1984, have also used \"edutainment\" as a descriptive term. Most edutainment games seek to teach players by employing a game-based learning approach. Criticism as to which video games can be considered educational has led to the creation of \"serious games\" whose primary focus is to \"teach\" rather than entertain.\n\nPsychologist Simon Egenfeldt-Nielsen researched the educational use and potential of computer games and has written many articles on the subject. One paper dealing specifically with edutainment breaks it down into 3 generational categories to separate the cognitive methods most predominantly used to teach. He is critical of the research that has been done on the educational use of computer games, citing their biases and weaknesses in method, which cause their findings to lack scientific validity.\n\nGames provide structure to problem-solving. This allows a player to \"fail up\", meaning that with the combination of challenging and fun and identity-building, the student will want to continue to persist on that problem until it is solved. It is a productive failure. This may take quite a few times before success is reached, but progress is obtained each time and so is knowledge on how to solve that problem. Iteration and discovery become two major aspects to learning through game playing. Many students have a \"sweet spot\" for gaming, which allows gaming in education to be successful in terms of grasping concepts, while this can be more difficult through the use of a book. Students may not even realize that they are learning through a game. Games need to include novelty. Unexpected occurrences and challenging choices allow the player to want to keep playing. Having a story or narrative in the game is what can really suck a player into the game. It allows for continuous feedback and challenges at the right level of difficulty, while avoiding frustration.\n\nWhen developing successful learning games for the classroom, it can be a challenging task. In order for the game to show achievement in student learning, the games should hold certain qualities. The development of successful games to promote learning requires attention to opposing factors. Creativity and inventiveness is needed to help the outcome work well and run smoothly. Games should take the opposite approach of drill-and-practice principles, as this simplifies the games and limits the domains of knowledge. The three factors to keep in mind when designing strong and successful games are integration, motivation, and focus. In order for the player to progress in the game, they must master the learning goals and objectives behind the game. The game should be integrated with learning goals. In the content that needs to be taught through the game, it should be made a point that in order to succeed in the game, is to know the information, which creates importance to the player. The game needs to be as motivating as possible and should pose a challenge. The primary activity of the game should be interacting and interesting to the students. Games are about decision making, where you see what the consequences are and what feedback you receive. Games teach students about rewards, but that it takes some work to receive those rewards. The actions within the game need to be relevant to life outside the game, so learning can occur. Focus can most successfully occur when one is learning by exploring, operating, or interacting.\n\nTeachers are using games more regularly that focus on a wide variety of objectives, while exposing students to more game genres and devices. There is much more structure, which makes it a lot easier for the teacher, and the students enjoy it. Students have become so fluent with the use of online tools. Learning data can be generated from the use of online games, which allow the teacher to have insight on the knowledge the children have obtained, and what needs improvement; this can then help a teacher with their curriculum and teaching.\n\nA nationwide study of 488 K–12 teachers in the United State found that over half were using digital games in the classroom weekly. Most classrooms nowadays have replaced the traditional blackboard for the Smart Board, bringing technology into the classroom. As we move forward into the digital age, most schools provide lessons on computer literacy to ensure students are fluent when it comes to technology. Likewise, the use of well-designed educational video games delivers game based learning that can motivate students to participate more enthusiastically in subjects, including those that are often less popular. It is also noted that educational video games offer more interaction, immediate feedback, to both student and teacher, and more student control. Educational video games that involve aspects of reality, provide students with opportunities to be involved in an interactive environment that they would not ordinarily be allowed to participate in but from the safety of a classroom. \n\nChildren of all kinds thrive during play-based learning. Children with special needs, be it physical or cognitive, often require different materials to aide their education. Many schools strive for the inclusion of special educational needs students within the classroom and now, with the help of technology, schools begin to close the gap and give children with disabilities equal opportunities to learn and communicate.\n\nThere have been many video games created within the past decades that specifically target special needs children, \"Dreamware\" being one. The device uses visual, auditory, temperature, and vibration sensory integration training which have been proven to capture the child's attention, keeping them focused for longer periods, allowing the child to learn more.\n\nOther educational video games targeted towards those with special education needs include virtual reality, as it can provide knowledge building experiences. One study conducted by Professor Standen of University of Nottingham concluded that adolescent students with severe intellectual disabilities who practiced shopping in a virtual supermarket were both quicker and more precise than those who had not. This showed that students could acquire important life skills through a video game and could then transfer that knowledge into the real environment, making them a valuable tool in education.\n\nEducational video games help learners in the development of reading comprehension and cognitive skills. For teachers, video games with educational value act as relevant material for engaging their students. Therefore, video games can be used as an immersive learning system that provides for a combination of digital technology, rich narrative, and real world gameplay. Through games students learn to exercise resilience, critical thinking, and problem solving skills by identifying numerous solutions for problems. By introducing them to educational video games, parents and teachers can make children interested in technology and technical skills from an early age.\n\nEducational video games are important for individualized learning. Given that every learner is different, teachers are always looking for adequate resources that will provide every learner with an individualized learning plan. Video games allow students to learn new concepts at their own pace without having a constant overlook from parents and teachers (Chang et al., 2009). The experiences of the players can be tailored based on their preferences and performance. The game is automatically adjusted to present higher-level challenges after solving each problem. If they are having difficulty with a concept, then the game is tailored to present the same concept in a different manner until the student understands it. Video games balance enjoyment with an appropriate challenge level, which keeps players in an optimally engaging and challenging learning zone.\n\nResearch shows that children who play educational video games have improved visual-spatial skills. For instance, a simple game session can help learners visualize science topics in a way that helps them learn better. Children who play educational video games have sharpened visual attention skills and improved capacity to visualize 3D objects (Achtman et al. 2008). Furthermore, educational video games as they improve their aim and hand-eye coordination. The video game is a learning sector as activities that sharpen the perceptions of children as well as their responses to the world.\n\nOne of the major limitations of educational video games is that they leave little room for spontaneous play. A child may be involved and have some degree of control in a game but ultimately cannot control the direction in which the game will go, hindering the notion of self-directed play as a means for learning. It has been noted that educational video games can help students focus; however, once the game has ended many find it hard to adapt back to the slower pace of receiving information in the classroom.\n\nIt is also important for students to be able to ask questions on topics they do not fully understand. A supervising teacher may be able to aid the student whereas the computer cannot provide answers to all questions posed. Using educational computer games also relies on the teacher having prior knowledge of how the game works and be somewhat computer literate.\n\nRegardless of the enthusiasm surrounding video games and learning, very few studies have come to a conclusive answer as to whether educational video games improve academic achievement and classroom performance. Although individuals may develop game-specific abilities; these may not transfer into traditional academic skills required for learning. Only additional research could tell whether playing educational video games improves classroom behaviour and academic skills. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "24680069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24680069", "title": "El-Hibri Peace Education Prize", "text": "El-Hibri Peace Education Prize\n\nThe El-Hibri Peace Education Prize was established by Fuad El-Hibri in 2007 for the purpose of honoring an outstanding scholar, practitioner or policymaker annually in order to celebrate and encourage individuals who embody the principles of peace, justice, and inclusion. Today the prize is the longest-running program of the El-Hibri Foundation, which is a family foundation located in Washington, DC. It aims to empower and equip Muslim leaders and their allies to build thriving, inclusive communities. Its grantmaking and programs are intended to provide resources and skills, forge collaborative relationships, and increase inclusion of and within American Muslim communities.\n\n\"The El-Hibri Foundation awards an annual $30,000 Peace Education Prize to individuals who have dedicated their lives to building inclusive communities in the United States and building the capacity of others to create positive social change.\n\nThe prize is intended to celebrate and encourage individuals who embody the principles of peace, justice, and inclusion.\"\n\nIndividuals based in the United States whose primary work is focused on domestic audiences and aligned with the strategic focus areas of EHF are eligible. These individuals will have demonstrated:\n\n\nFinalists will be selected based on the following criteria:\n\n\"Working across difference\"\n\n\n\"Creating unique and broad-based institutional impact\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43013179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43013179", "title": "Executive DBA Council", "text": "Executive DBA Council\n\nThe Executive DBA Council (EDBAC) is a global volunteer organization that focuses on executive doctoral programs and their issues. The group's posted mission is \"...to provide outstanding networking and educational opportunities for professionals who serve and participate in executive doctoral degree programs.\" The group states on its website that it is the only global organization of its kind.\n\nThe EDBAC was founded in 2011 to promote the DBA degree as a business or executive qualification, rather than an academic qualification, such as a PhD. The group held its first meeting at Case Western Reserve University in June 2011. \n\nThe DBA and PhD both focus on developing an individual's research skills, but the PhD is designed to prepare individuals for academic careers. The DBA is intended to prepare students for a research career in business. An executive qualification such as a DBA is also called a practitioner degree.\n\nThe EDBAC offers membership to accredited, not-for-profit public or private institutions of higher learning that offer a doctoral program for executives or are considering doing so. As of January 2016, there were 48 member schools, including University of Maryland University College,Benedictine University, Case Western Reserve University, City University of Hong Kong, Copenhagen Business School, Cranfield University, ESC Rennes School of Business, Georgia State University, Manchester University, Oklahoma State University, Paris Dauphine University, Rollins College, Temple University, University of Florida and University of Reading.\n\nThe EDBAC has a board consisting of a chairperson and ten other members, of which two are program alumni. Emma Parry of Cranfield University, is the current chairperson.\n\nThe Executive DBA Council sponsors and organizes an Annual Engaged Management Scholarship (EMS) Conference where current students and alumni of member programs present peer-reviewed research. The sixth annual conference was held in Paris, France in September 2016. The 2017 conference was scheduled for Tampa, Florida in September 2017 but was cancelled due to Hurricane Irma. The 2018 conference is scheduled to take place at Temple University September 6-9 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "29972027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29972027", "title": "Francisco Vallés", "text": "Francisco Vallés\n\nFrancisco Vallés also known as Divino Vallés (Covarrubias, 4 October 1524 – Burgos, 20 September 1592) was a Spanish physician, the best example of the medical Renaissance in Spain.\n\nHe was born at Covarrubias, and studied in several European cities, which brought him into contact with Andrea Vesalius, the personal physician of King Philip II of Spain and «\"Médico de Cámara y Protomédico General de los Reinos y Señoríos de Castilla\"» (chief physician Medical and General Chamber of Kingdoms and Dominions of Castile).\n\nHe served most of his life in Alcalá de Henares, where he taught medicine, and was the first in Alcalá to teach medicine for the body.\n\nIn addition to medicine Vallés was a great humanist and writer. His last years were spent in the apothecary's Monastery of \"El Escorial\" prepared by the distillation of natural plants. He died in Burgos, and is buried in the chapel of \"Colegio Mayor de San Ildefonso\" in Alcalá de Henares. He was commemorated by the noted Spanish botanists, Ruiz and Pavón when they named a South American shrub, Vallesia in 1794.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21392910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21392910", "title": "Georgina Evers-Swindell", "text": "Georgina Evers-Swindell\n\nGeorgina Emma Buchanan Earl, , better known under her maiden name Georgina Evers-Swindell (born 10 October 1978 in Hastings, New Zealand) is a former New Zealand rower. She competed in the double sculls with her identical twin sister Caroline Evers-Swindell, and is a double Olympic gold medallist, having won at Athens in 2004 and Beijing in 2008. In November 2005 she and her sister were named \"Rowing Female Crew of the Year\" by the International Rowing Federation (FISA), and in 2016 they became the first New Zealanders to be awarded the federation's highest award, the Thomas Keller Medal. She is 180 cm tall, weighs 80 kg and currently resides in Napier, New Zealand.\n\nIn 2001, she won silver at the World Championships in both the double and quadruple sculls. Together with her sister she won gold at both the 2002 and 2003 World Rowing Championships in the double sculls.\n\nIn 2002, she broke the indoor 2000 m rowing world record, recording a time of 6 minutes and 28.5 seconds beating the previous record by 2.1 seconds.\n\nIn the 2005 New Year Honours, she was made an Officer of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to rowing.\n\nAt the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, she and her sister won gold medals in the women's double sculls, beating the German double by 1/100 of a second, 7:07.32 versus 7:07.33. This was the first time in history that the women's double scull title had successfully been defended. She and her sister announced their retirement from rowing in October 2008.\n\nIn December 2008, she and her sister won the Lonsdale Cup which is awarded by the New Zealand Olympic Committee to the athlete/s who make the most outstanding contribution to an Olympic sport. They previously won the cup in 2003.\n\nIn January 2009, Evers-Swindell married Sam Earl, himself a former New Zealand rower and son of Olympic gold medallist rower Athol Earl. Since then, she has styled herself Georgina Earl.\n"}
{"id": "4262417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4262417", "title": "Grant Dodwell", "text": "Grant Dodwell\n\nGrant Radnor Dodwell (born 2 July 1952 in Sydney, New South Wales) is an Australian actor, producer, writer, director, voice artist, and drama teacher. He is a triple recipient of the Silver Logie for Most Popular Actor, he is best known for his roles in television soap opera's including A Country Practice and Home And Away.\n\nDodwell has more than 40 years' experience in the entertainment industry in theatre, television and film appearing in many of Australia's best known stage shows and television series. He is best known for his logie award-winning television acting role playing Dr. Simon Bowen in A Country Practice. He would later play Charles Willing in \"Willing and Abel\" (1987) in which he co-starred with his former ACP co-star Shane Withington who played the role of Abel Moore. He also appeared as Dr. Sam Wilkinson in \"Home & Away\" during its later years.\n\nDodwell worked on 2008 feature film \"Men's Group\", produced by John L. Simpson and directed by Michael Joy. He won the Australian IF best actor award and the film won Best Film and Script.\n\nGrant Dodwell's daughter Celeste Dodwell, is also an actress in London whose television work has included \"The Musketeers \" - \"Call the Midwife\" She played Jackie Coryton in the 2015 production of Noël Coward's 'Hay Fever' at the Duke of York's Theatre in the West End. She also worked at Sydney Theatre Company and Belvoir St Theatre before returning to the UK. She filmed the role of Scarlett in Robert Zemeckis' new WW2 thriller 'Allied (film)' with Brad Pitt and Marion Cotillard.\n"}
{"id": "3930731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3930731", "title": "Gwonbeon", "text": "Gwonbeon\n\nThe gwonbeon were institutions set up for the training and oversight of kisaeng and other entertainers during in the early 20th century. They were the successors of the \"gyobang\", government-supported institutions which had provided such education and oversight in the Goryeo and Joseon dynasties. \n\n"}
{"id": "35468984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35468984", "title": "Hannah Kilham", "text": "Hannah Kilham\n\nHannah Kilham (1774–1832) née Spurr was an English Methodist and Quaker, known as a missionary and linguist active in West Africa. She was also a teacher and philanthropic activist in England and Ireland.\nShe was born at Sheffield on 12 August 1774, the seventh child of Peter and Hannah Spurr, in trade there. Brought up in the Church of England, she was permitted to attend John Wesley's early morning services. Her mother's death when she was twelve (1786) had placed her at the head of the household, which consisted of her father and five brothers. Two years later her father died, and she was sent to a boarding-school at Chesterfield. At the age of 20 she joined the Wesleyans.\n\nOn 12 April 1798 Hannah Spurr became the second wife of Alexander Kilham, founder of the Methodist New Connexion, who died at Nottingham eight months later (20 December 1798). Hannah Kilham opened a day-school in Nottingham, spending her vacations at Epworth, her husband's early home. There she became acquainted with Quakers, and in 1802 joined the Society of Friends.\n\nIn Sheffield, while still teaching, Kilham became involved in philanthropic work. She started a Society for the Bettering of the Condition of the Poor, which was imitated elsewhere.\n\nIn 1817 Kilham began work on unwritten languages of West Africa, with the aim of spreading Christianity. She produced an elementary grammar for the children in missionary schools at Sierra Leone. From two African sailors who were being educated at Tottenham, she acquired a knowledge of the Jaloof (Wolof) and Mandingo (Mandinka) languages, and in 1820 printed anonymously \"First Lessons in Jaloof\". Kilham induced the Society of Friends to set up an unofficial African Instruction Fund Committee, in existence 1819 to 1825, with female representation. The committee, on which William Allen and Luke Howard sat, as a preliminary sent William Singleton to West Africa.\n\nIn October 1823, under the auspices of the Friends' committee for promoting African instruction, she sailed with three Quaker missionaries and the two African sailors for St. Mary's, in the Gambia. Here she started a school, using her knowledge of Wolof. She taught also at Sierra Leone. Kilham had an Irish assistant in Sierra Leone, Ann Thompson of Cooladine, also a Quaker.\n\nIn July 1824 she returned to England to report to the committee of Friends.\n\nIn 1826 she was working in Spitalfields, on education, employment and health issues. She brought in Thomas Hodgkin to help with widespread disease, though there was little they could do.\n\nKilham then went to Ireland, and spent some months with the British and Irish Ladies' Society for famine relief.\nNoted documentation of Hannah Kilham and other individuals that made heroic attempts to the spread of Christianity in the western sections of Africa can be further researched in the book, \"West African Christianity – the religious Impact, by author Lamin Sanneh, pg.66\n\nOn 11 November 1827 Kilham once more sailed for Sierra Leone, taking with her a number of \"African School Tracts\" (London, 1827), which she had published. She visited Free Town and the villages around; and in two or three months compiled word lists in 25 languages. For reasons of health she then returned home again.\n\nOn 17 October 1830 Kilham set out on her third and final voyage to Free Town. Having obtained permission from the governor to take charge of recaptive children rescued from slave-ships, Kilham, with the aid of a matron, founded a large school at Charlotte, a mountain village near Bathurst (now Banjul), and spent the rainy season there. She then travelled to Liberia, visited schools in Monrovia, and made arrangements for sending some African children to England for education. About 23 February 1832 she sailed for Sierra Leone. She died at sea, on 31 March 1832.\n\nBesides works already mentioned, Kilham was the author of:\n\n\nHannah Kilham's memoirs and diaries were published (1837), edited by her step-daughter, Sarah Biller née Kilham. She ran a school in the tradition of Joseph Lancaster in St. Petersburg. An edition of some of Hannah Kilham's works was republished as \"Writings on Education in West Africa\" (2010).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33548869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33548869", "title": "High school dropouts in the United States", "text": "High school dropouts in the United States\n\nThe United States Department of Education's measurement of the \"status\" dropout rate is the percentage of 16 to 24-year-olds who are not enrolled in school and have not earned a high school credential. This rate is different from the event dropout rate and related measures of the status completion and average freshman completion rates. The status high school dropout rate in 2009 was 8.1%. There are many risk factors for high school dropouts. These can be categorized into social and academic risk factors. Members of racial and ethnic minority groups drop out at higher rates than White students, as do those from low-income families, from single-parent households, mentally disabled students, and from families in which one or both parents also did not complete high school. Students at risk for dropout based on academic risk factors are those who often have a history of absenteeism and grade retention, academic trouble, and more general disengagement from school life. High school dropouts in the U.S. are more likely to be unemployed, have low-paying jobs, be incarcerated, have children at early ages and/or become single parents.\n\nResearch has shown that poor academic achievement is one of the strongest predictors of high school dropout. This theory examines the mediation effect of poor academic achievement on other factors, such as deviant affiliation, personal deviance, family socialization and structural strains, associated with school dropout. Essentially, it looks at how poor academic achievement interacts with and affects the relationship between high school dropout and other factors. The model for this theory was shown to statistically fit at an acceptable degree.\n\nThis theory looks at the relationship between deviant behavior and dropout. Deviant behavior includes delinquency, drug use, and early pregnancy. There is a very strong relationship as general deviance is a strong direct predictor of dropout beyond the effect mediated by poor academic achievement.\n\nThe relationship described in this theory is one between an individual bonding with antisocial peers and its effect on dropout rates. Students receive the classification of antisocial if they are likely to drop out themselves and/or have low school attachment. If an individual has antisocial friends, he/she is much more likely to drop out of school regardless of how well he/she is doing in school.\n\nThe institution of family appears to very formative for a developing child. As such, this theory examines the relationship between family background and dropout rates. The relationship is not particularly strong, past academic achievement has much more of an influence than poor family socialization. Factors of poor family socialization include low parental expectations and a parent's lack of education.\n\nThis theory focuses on the relationship between demographic factors, such as socioeconomic status, gender and ethnicity, and dropout. Boys are much more likely to drop out than girls and dropouts are most likely from a family with a low socioeconomic status. There has been contention over the influence of ethnicity on dropout rates. However, it is clear that it does have some influence. Low socioeconomic status is a significant predictor of dropout beyond poor academic achievement. Ethnicity and gender had no significance beyond their influence on academic achievement.\n\nSocial risk factors are demographic variables that are associated with a higher likelihood of school difficulties and, consequently, higher dropout rates. These demographic factors include race/ethnicity, age, language-minority status, gender, family income (socioeconomic status), parents' level of education and family structure. Research shows that members of racial and ethnicity minority groups drop out at higher rates than white students, as do individuals who have a low socioeconomic status, come from a single-parent household or whose parents did not complete high school. In 2010 the dropout rates of 16- through 24-year-olds who are not enrolled in school and have not earned a high school credential were: 5.1% for white students, 8% for black students, 15.1% for Hispanic students, and 4.2% for Asian students.\n\nAcademic risk factors refer to the students' performance in school and are highly related to school level problems. These factors include absenteeism, grade retention, special education placement, low performance and grades, and low educational expectations. Poor academic achievement has a very strong relationship with increased likelihood of dropping out. Grade retention can increase the odds of dropping out by as much as 250 percent above those of similar students who were not retained. Students who drop out typically have a history of absenteeism, grade retention and academic trouble and are more disengaged from school life.\n\nSchool structure, curriculum and size are factors influential to increased likelihood of a student experiencing academic risk factors. The school curriculum has been found to affect the likelihood of a student to drop out regardless of which courses the individual was taking. Students who attended schools that offered Calculus or fewer courses below the level of Algebra 1 had a reduced risk of dropping out of school by 56%.\n\nSchool size has a very strong non-linear correlation with dropout rate. A study done by Werblow found that increases in school size can be \"associated with a 12% increase in average student dropout rate\". However, once a school becomes very large, its size seems to hardly affect dropout rates except for its effect on other factors. Large schools, enrolling between 1,500 and 2,500 students, were found to have the largest proportion of students who dropped out, 12%. Small schools have the lowest dropout rate.\n\nThe type or structure of a school was found to be irrelevant in a study done by Lee once other factors, such as demographics and size, were accounted for. The only way school structure affected dropout rates was through teacher-student relationships. Students who attended schools with more positive student-teacher interaction were less likely to drop out. The effect of this relationship was largely determined by the type of school. In small or medium-sized public or Catholic schools, 'positive student-teacher relations led to an 86% decrease in the odds of dropping out\". However, student-teacher relations did not significantly affect small or medium private schools.\n\nAs mentioned above, teacher-student interactions can have a large influence on the likelihood of a student dropping out of high school. The better the relationships between students and teachers, the less likely the student is to drop out of school. However, if a teacher identifies a student as on track and having a positive attitude towards school, but does not necessarily have personal interaction with the student, that student has a higher chance of dropping out.\n\nThe relationships students have with their peers also play a role in influencing a student's likelihood of dropping out. Building relationships with anti-social peers was found by Battin-Pearson to be a strong and direct predictor of dropout beyond the influence of poor academic achievement. Students who had deviant friends were more likely to drop out of school early regardless of their achievement in school.\n\nParent-child relationships have also been found to be very influential in whether or not a student decides to stay in school. The better the relationship, as demonstrated through positive interaction and parental involvement, the more likely the student will stay in school. If a student does not have a good relationship with his/her parents, the student is more likely to drop out even if he has good grades and good behavior. This demonstrates that parental support is crucial, as students with good grades and behavior are typically more likely to stay in school. However, parental expectations or degree of education are not as influential. A study by Battin-Pearson found that these two factors did not contribute significantly to dropout beyond what was explained by poor academic achievement.\n\nWhile the above factors certainly place a student at risk for dropout, they are not always the reason the student identifies as their motivation for dropping out. However, there is not a large body of research describing the students' personal motivation. One study found that the main reasons students reported for dropping out included uninteresting classes (a lack of engagement with school life and classes), unmotivated (students typically said teachers did not demand enough or were not inspirational), personal reasons (had to get a job, became a parent, had to support or care for a family member), and academic challenges (felt like they could not keep up, felt unprepared for high school, had to repeat a grade, or graduation requirements seemed out of reach).\n\nEarly parenthood and pregnancy is a motivation to dropout. An article stated that early parenthood was the number one cause for school dropout in teen girls, as thirty percent of teen girls said pregnancy was the reason why they dropped out.\n\nIn some cases, social reasons such as bullying, harassment, or an inability to fit into the school community for reasons outside of their control are reasons.\n\nThe No Child Left Behind Act implemented a \"standardized, high-stakes, test-based accountability system\". The purpose was to increase accountability of schools for measured improvements of students' knowledge. In order to accomplish this, test scores were disaggregated into subgroups to better evaluate if the historically under-served minorities were receiving a good education. Under this system, a school cannot receive a high rating if the scores of the subgroups do not improve. Based on a study done by researchers from Rice University and University of Texas at Austin, the policy inadvertently encourages students to drop out of high school. Teachers and administrators utilize grade retention as a strategy to improve test scores and ensure positive ratings.\n\nHigh school dropouts are less likely to be active labor force participants and are more likely to be unemployed than their more educated counterparts. The current unemployment rate for high school dropouts is about 56 percent greater than that for high school completers. Lifetime earnings for this group are estimated to be $260,000 less than those for high school graduates. Female dropouts are much more likely to become single mothers and consequently be more likely to have an income under the poverty threshold or live on welfare. High school dropouts make up 68 percent of the nation’s prison population. Nearly 37% of dropouts live in poor/near poor families. Additionally, high school dropouts have a life expectancy that is 3–5 years shorter than high school graduates.\n\nA number high school dropouts however became successful. Walt Disney was an American business magnate, cartoonist, and filmmaker who dropped out of high school at the age of sixteen in hopes of joining the army. Bobby Fischer was an American chess prodigy, grandmaster, and the eleventh World Chess Champion who also dropped out of high school when he turned age sixteen and later explained \"You don't learn anything in school\". Glen L Roberts after a career of trying to expose government privacy abuses, left the United States, renounced his citizenship and became one of the few former Americans to voluntarily become stateless. He had dropped out of high school in 10th grade.\n\nThe problems created at an individual level due to the lack of a high school diploma or GED affect society as a whole. Those who cannot find jobs cannot pay taxes, resulting in a loss of revenue for the government. For each cohort of 18-year-olds who never complete high school, the US loses $192 billion in income and tax revenue. Moretti estimates that by increasing the high school completion rate of males by one percent, the US could save up to $1.4 billion annually in reduced costs from crime. A substantial amount of taxpayer money goes toward maintaining the prisons. And, in 2004, each high school dropout was responsible for nearly $100,000 in health-related losses. Because of these factors, an average high school dropout will cost the government over $292,000.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Education identifies four different rates to measure high school dropout and completion in the United States. Each rate contributes unique information. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46586711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46586711", "title": "Instituto Español de Andorra", "text": "Instituto Español de Andorra\n\nInstituto Español de Andorra (IEA) is a Spanish international school in La Margineda, Andorra la Vella, Andorra, operated by the Spanish Ministry of Education. It serves \"secundaria obligatoria\" (required secondary education, junior high school) and \"bachillerato\" (senior high school/sixth form) education. It was created as the Instituto Nacional de Enseñanza Media en Andorra in 1969.\n\n"}
{"id": "15348968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15348968", "title": "International Maritime University of Panama", "text": "International Maritime University of Panama\n\nThe International Maritime University of Panama (in Spanish: Universidad Marítima Internacional de Panamá, UMIP) is a maritime college in Panama City, Panama. It trains cadets to become merchant marine ships' officers. It is located in the Albrook area of Panama City, on the site of the former Albrook Air Force Base.\n\nIts main building (Building 810 in Albrook) was severely damaged by a fire in January 2008, although there were no injuries or fatalities. The fire is believed to have started in a storage area on the building's top floor.\nUMIP was established by a law passed in 2005, and it absorbed the former Escuela Náutica de Panamá, which was founded in 1958. \n\nThe university's rector (president) is Aladar Rodríguez Díaz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24771487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24771487", "title": "International Society of Military Sciences", "text": "International Society of Military Sciences\n\nThe International Society of Military Sciences (ISMS) is an international organization whose stated aim is to build a strong network for the creation, development, exchange and diffusion of research and knowledge about war, conflict management and peace support efforts. The ISMS was founded in October 2008. The Austrian National Defence Academy, the Royal Military College of Canada, the Royal Danish Defence College, the Finnish National Defence University, the Netherlands Defence Academy, the Norwegian Defence University College, the Swedish National Defence College and the Baltic Defence College established this society with the intention to further research and academic education in military arts and sciences in the broadest sense.\n\nIn the summer of 2007 the Faculty of Military Sciences, Netherlands Defence Academy, started working on more international collaboration on an institutional level. Canada, Sweden and Austria were the first military institutes and universities which were approached for collaboration. Soon four other institutes joined in. In November 2011, the National Defence University of Warsaw and the Royal Military Academy (Belgium) were voted in. The Royal Military Academy of Belgium withdrew their membership before the council meeting in Oslo, May 2017.\n\nThe formal signing of the \"Letter of Intent\" was on October 22, 2008 in Copenhagen. That day the participating academies also decided to formally present the ISMS in November 2009 during its first annual international conference which was to be held in the Netherlands. The theme of this first conference was “\"Security in 2020 in a Multi-Polar World\"”.\n\n1) The undersigned institutions of Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden, and the Baltic Defence College (later referred to as the institutions) agree to establish a society intended to further research and academic education in military arts and sciences in the broadest sense. This association is titled International Society of Military Sciences (hereafter referred to as the Society). \n2) The purpose of the Society is to build a network for the creation, development, exchange and diffusion of research and knowledge about war, conflict management and peace support efforts.\n\n3) The Society will establish an annual conference, and one or more workshops per year. Activities include communications and publications to support a research network within topics such as: war studies; military history; military technology; command and control, leadership and basic competence; law and ethics; security and defence policy and strategy; armed forces and society; and defence economics and management. These are detailed in Annex A.\n\n4) The representatives of the member institutions constitute the Council as the highest authority governing the Society. The Council elects a Board governing the Society. The purpose of the Board is to initiate and coordinate the activities of the Society. The institution hosting the annual conference provides the secretariat for the Society for the period of one year.\n\n5) Society members commit themselves to organise and participate in various workshops, conference or working groups, with the understanding that they will endeavour to lead at least one working group or workshop and participate in at least two others. A tentative schedule of upcoming events is attached at Annex B.\n6) The Society will be established for the four-year term in October 2008 upon signing of Letter of Intent by the institutions, and it is announced at the First Annual Conference. \n7) The first Annual Conference will be held in November 2009. Invitations to participate in the Conference and to join the Society will be distributed widely. The Council will consider applications for new membership by compatible organizations annually. However, participation in conferences and workshops is welcomed at any time.\n\nThe ISMS is an institutional membership organization composed of higher military educational institutions in smaller and medium seized nations. Membership of the ISMS is open to defence universities and colleges conducting research and teaching at the highest national level. The Charter specifically state that its members must be free to conduct research without political control and interference and they must operate in a political system with firm democratic control over the armed forces. More so, membership is by invitation only.\n\nThe governing body of the ISMS is the Council, which is made up by one representative of each member institution. The Chairmanship of the Council is assumed by the ISMS Presidency. The Presidency of the ISMS rotates on an annual bases between the member institutions. It is the role of the Presidency to host the annual ISMS conference and act as the \"ISMS secretariat\" for the period between the annual conferences. ISMS uses a thematic Working Group division where each working group is led by a Chairperson. \n\n\n\nThe ISMS working groups are communities of research interest, with a lead institution, which dissemine knowledge within the community, and organize seminars at the annual conference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25779906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25779906", "title": "Kolleg", "text": "Kolleg\n\nA Kolleg (German from Latin \"collegium\") in Germany is a three-year school of adult education, preparing students for the exams leading to the general university entrance qualification, the \"Abitur (Allgemeine Hochschulreife)\".\n\nDifferent from the otherwise similar German evening school, \"Abendgymnasium\", Kolleg classes are in the daytime. Both are state-run schools and do not charge tuition fees. Kolleg students can be eligible for financial aid as regulated in the German Federal Training Assistance Act, \"Berufsausbildungsförderungsgesetz\". \nAs a rule, the minimum entrance requirements for students are: 19 years of age or older, a Mittlere Reife school leaving certificate, and a formal vocational training completed. However, there are exceptions from that rule, e.g., previous long-term work experience (at least three years) without formal qualification can be recognized as sufficient substitute for vocational training, which also includes raising children and running a household. Kollegs may additionally require applicants to pass an entrance examination.\n\nSchools are in the competence of each federal state \"(bundesland)\", so that regulations may vary from bundesland to bundesland.\n\nThe German term \"Kolleg\" should not be confused with the English term \"college\".\n\n\n<references \\>\n"}
{"id": "2610021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2610021", "title": "Longitudinal data system", "text": "Longitudinal data system\n\nLongitudinal data system is a data system capable of tracking student information over multiple years in multiple schools. The term appears in Federal law of the United States to describe such a system. Federal funding is provided to aid the design and implementation of such systems.\n"}
{"id": "31898211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31898211", "title": "Master of Business Systems", "text": "Master of Business Systems\n\nMaster of Business Systems (MBS) is a Postgraduate/Master's degree in Business Systems.\n\nBusiness Systems programs combine Information Technology (IT) and Business/Management courses and are common in Australia. \n\nAustralian universities, like most in the UK education systems, pay more attention on how IT would help the business and financial process online, rather than how IT would be the product itself in conceptualization to be sold as most institutions do in South Korea, Japan and the US. However, for international students interested to enter IT, it would be a good choice of kick-start.\n\n\nCourses may include topics like applied computer science, computer networks and Internet technology, website engineering, web designing, programming, or information security.\n\n\nCourses may focus on information systems development, database management, information systems architectures, business intelligence, or business process modelling.\n\n\nManagement oriented topics may be studied in courses on management information systems, information management, management control, database management, risk management, neural networks, project management, knowledge management, management and organization of IT departments, or software engineering management etc.\n\n\nImportant application domains of Business Systems may be investigated in courses like enterprise resource planning, E-Commerce, SAP and e-business networking, industrial information systems, or electronic finance/electronic banking, web security, simulation models etc.\n"}
{"id": "6240439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6240439", "title": "Mismatch negativity", "text": "Mismatch negativity\n\nThe mismatch negativity (MMN) or mismatch field (MMF) is a component of the event-related potential (ERP) to an odd stimulus in a sequence of stimuli. It arises from electrical activity in the brain and is studied within the field of cognitive neuroscience and psychology. It can occur in any sensory system, but has most frequently been studied for hearing and for vision. In the case of auditory stimuli, the MMN occurs after an infrequent change in a repetitive sequence of sounds (sometimes the entire sequence is called an \"oddball sequence\".) For example, a rare deviant (d) sound can be interspersed among a series of frequent standard (s) sounds (e.g., \"s s s s s s s s s d s s s s s s d s s s d s s s s\"...). The deviant sound can differ from the standards in one or more perceptual features such as pitch, duration, or loudness. The MMN is usually evoked by either a change in frequency, intensity, duration or real or apparent spatial locus of origin. The MMN can be elicited regardless of whether the subject is paying attention to the sequence. During auditory sequences, a person can be reading or watching a silent subtitled movie, yet still show a clear MMN. In the case of visual stimuli, the MMN occurs after an infrequent change in a repetitive sequence of images.\n\nMMN refers to the mismatch response in electroencephalography (EEG); MMF or MMNM refer to the mismatch response in magnetoencephalography (MEG).\n\nThe auditory MMN was discovered in 1978 by Risto Näätänen, A. W. K. Gaillard, and S. Mäntysalo at the Institute for Perception, TNO in The Netherlands.\n\nThe first report of a visual MMN was in 1990 by Rainer Cammer. For a history of the development of the visual MMN, see Pazo-Alvarez et al. (2003).\n\nThe MMN is a response to a deviant within a sequence of otherwise regular stimuli; thus, in an experimental setting, it is produced when stimuli are presented in a many-to-one ratio; for example, in a sequence of sounds \"s s s s s s s d s s s s d s s s...\", the \"d\" is the deviant or oddball stimulus, and will elicit an MMN response. The mismatch negativity occurs even if the subject is not consciously paying attention to the stimuli. Processing of sensory stimulus features is essential for humans in determining their responses and actions. If behaviourally relevant aspects of the environment are not correctly represented in the brain, then the organism's behaviour cannot be appropriate. Without these representations our ability to understand spoken language, for example, would be seriously impaired. Cognitive neuroscience has consequently emphasised the importance of understanding brain mechanisms of sensory information processing, that is, the sensory prerequisites of cognition. Most of the data obtained, unfortunately, do not allow the objective measurement of the accuracy of these stimulus representations (see Näätänen, 1992). In addition, recent cognitive neuroscience seems to have succeeded in extracting such a measure, however. This is the mismatch negativity (MMN), a component of the event-related potential (ERP), first reported by Näätänen, Gaillard, and Mäntysalo (1978). An in-depth review of MMN research can be found in Näätänen (1992) while other recent reviews also provide information on the generator mechanisms of MMN (Alho 1995), its magnetic counterpart, MMNm (Näätänen, Ilmoniemi & Alho, 1994), and its clinical applicability (Näätänen & Alho, 1995).\n\nThe auditory MMN can occur in response to deviance in pitch, intensity, or duration. The auditory MMN is a fronto-central negative potential with sources in the primary and non-primary auditory cortex and a typical latency of 150-250 ms after the onset of the deviant stimulus. Sources could also include one from the right opercular part of the inferior frontal gyrus. The amplitude and latency of the MMN is related to how different the deviant stimulus is from the standard. Large deviances elicit MMN at earlier latencies. For very large deviances, the MMN can even overlap the N100 (e.g., Campbell et al., 2007).\n\nThe visual MMN can occur in response to deviance in such aspects as color, size, or duration. The visual MMN is an occipital negative potential with sources in the primary visual cortex and a typical latency of 150-250 ms after the onset of the deviant stimulus.\n\nAs kindred phenomena have been elicited with speech stimuli, under passive conditions that require very little active attention to the sound, a version of MMN has been frequently used in studies of neurolinguistic perception, to test whether or not these participants neurologically distinguish between certain kinds of sounds. The MMN response has been used to study how fetuses and newborns discriminate speech sounds. In addition to these kinds of studies focusing on phonological processing, some research has implicated the MMN in syntactic processing. Some of these studies have attempted to directly test the automaticity of the MMN, providing converging evidence for the understanding of the MMN as a task-independent and automatic response.\n\nMMN is evoked by an infrequently presented stimulus (\"deviant\"), differing from the frequently-occurring stimuli (\"standards\") in one or several physical parameters like duration, intensity, or frequency (Näätänen, 1992). In addition, it is generated by a change in spectrally complex stimuli like phonemes, in synthesised instrumental tones, or in the spectral component of tone timbre. Also the temporal order reversals elicit an MMN when successive sound elements differ either in frequency, intensity, or duration. The MMN is not elicited by stimuli with deviant stimulus parameters when they are presented without the intervening standards. Thus, the MMN has been suggested to reflect change detection when a memory trace representing the constant standard stimulus and the neural code of the stimulus with deviant parameter(s) are discrepant.\n\nThe MMN data can be understood as providing evidence that stimulus features are separately analysed and stored in the vicinity of auditory cortex (for a discussion, please see the theory section below). The close resemblance of the behaviour of the MMN to that of the previously behaviourally observed \"echoic\" memory system strongly suggests that the MMN provides a non-invasive, objective, task-independently measurable physiological correlate of stimulus-feature representations in auditory sensory memory.\n\nThe experimental evidence suggests that the auditory sensory memory index MMN provides sensory data for attentional processes, and, in essence, governs certain aspects of attentive information processing. This is evident in the finding that the latency of the MMN determines the timing of behavioural responses to changes in the auditory environment. Furthermore, even individual differences in discrimination ability can be probed with the MMN. The MMN is a component of the chain of brain events causing attention switches to changes in the environment. Attentional instructions also affect MMN.\n\nThe MMN has been documented in a number of studies to disclose neuropathological changes. \nPresently, the accumulated body of evidence suggests that while the MMN offers unique opportunities to basic research of the information processing of a healthy brain, it might be useful in tapping neurodegenerative changes as well.\n\nMMN, which is elicited irrespective of attention, provides an objective means for evaluating possible auditory discrimination and sensory-memory anomalies in such clinical groups as dyslexics and patients with aphasia, who have a multitude of symptoms including attentional problems. Recent results suggest that a major problem underlying the reading deficit in dyslexia might be an inability of the dyslexics' auditory cortex to adequately model complex sound patterns with fast temporal variation. According to the results of an ongoing study, MMN might also be used in the evaluation of auditory perception deficits in aphasia.\n\nAD patients demonstrate decreased amplitude of MMN, especially with long inter-stimulus intervals; this is thought to reflect reduced span of auditory sensory memory. Parkinsonian patients do demonstrate a similar deficit pattern, whereas alcoholism would appear to enhance the MMN response. This latter, seemingly contradictory, finding could be explained by hyperexcitability of CNS neurones resulting from neuroadaptive changes taking place during a heavy drinking bout.\n\nWhile the results obtained thus far seem encouraging, several steps need to be taken before the MMN can be used as a clinical tool in patient treatment. A focus of research in the late 1990s aimed to tackle some of the key signal-analysis problems encountered in development of clinical use of MMN and challenges still remain. Nevertheless, as it stands, clinical research employing the MMN has already produced significant knowledge on the CNS functional changes related to cognitive decline in the aforementioned clinical disorders.\n\nA 2010 study found that MMN durations were reduced in a group of schizophrenia patients who later went on to have psychotic episodes, suggesting that MMN durations may predict future psychosis.\n\nThe mainstream \"memory trace\" interpretation of MMN is that it is elicited in response to violations of simple rules governing the properties of information. It is thought to arise from violation of an automatically formed, short-term neural model or memory trace of physical or abstract environmental regularities (Näätänen & Winkler, 1999; Näätänen, Paavilainen, Rinne, & Alho 2007). However, other than MMN, there is no other neurophysiological evidence for the formation of the memory representation of those regularities.\n\nIntegral to this memory trace view is that there are: \ni) a population of sensory afferent neuronal elements that respond to sound, and; \nii) a separate population of memory neuronal elements that build a neural model of standard stimulation and respond more vigorously when the incoming stimulation violates that neural model, eliciting an MMN.\n\nAn alternative \"fresh afferent\" interpretation (Näätänen, 1992; Jääskeläinen et al., 2004) is that there are no memory neuronal elements, but the sensory afferent neuronal elements that are tuned to properties of the standard stimulation respond less vigorously upon repeated stimulation. Thus when a deviant activates a distinct new population of neuronal elements that is tuned to the different properties of the deviant rather than the standard, these fresh afferents respond more vigorously, eliciting an MMN.\n\nA third view is that the sensory afferents are the memory neurons (Ulanovsky, 2004; Jääskeläinen et al., 2007).\n\n"}
{"id": "47252996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47252996", "title": "NPTC Group", "text": "NPTC Group\n\nGrŵp Colegau NPTC Group of Colleges is a further education college which was formed following the merger of Neath Port Talbot College and Coleg Powys on 1 August 2013.\n\nThe college offers a programme of full-time, part-time, and higher education courses across its 9 campuses in Wales.\n\nNPTC Group offers a wide range of further education courses including A levels, BTECs and other vocational courses; the college offers higher education and part-time courses, including certificates, diplomas, BSc and BAs.\n\nSome notable former students include Michael Sheen, Dan Lydiate, Ashley Beck, James Hook, Justin Tipuric, Duncan Jones and Paul James.\n\n"}
{"id": "16436794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16436794", "title": "Pine Mountain Settlement School", "text": "Pine Mountain Settlement School\n\nPine Mountain Settlement School is located on Pine Mountain in Harlan County, Kentucky. The settlement school focuses on Appalachian and environmental education.\n\n\"A National Historic Landmark, Pine Mountain Settlement School was founded in 1913 as a school for children in the commonwealth's remote southeastern mountains and a social center for surrounding communities. The school was the dream of a local man, William Creech Sr., who was troubled by the area's lack of educational opportunities, and the prevalence of social problems and rampant disease. He donated land for the school and recruited two women, Katherine Pettit of Lexington, Kentucky, and Ethel de Long, New Jersey native, to establish and run the new institution. These two women enlisted the help of architect Mary Rockwell Hook of Kansas City to draw up plans for the campus and its buildings.\"\n\nPine Mountain Settlement School grew out of the settlement movement, which established institutions such as Hull House. The school has served many purposes in since its founding nearly a century ago.\n\n\nIn addition to operating as an educational institution, Pine Mountain Settlement School has served its community in other ways. For example, during Pine Mountain's time as a high school, it sponsored Work Experience Training, which gave men job training and helped them find employment. Pine Mountain has also operated as a farm, health clinic, and a supporter of local music and crafts. Today, in addition to cultural and environmental education, Pine Mountain Settlement School offers assistance to local low-performing students.\n\nAlpha Sigma Tau Sorority adopted Pine Mountain Settlement School as its national philanthropy in 1945.\n\nMembers of alumnae and collegiate chapters and colonies of Alpha Sigma Tau raise money annually for Pine Mountain Settlement School. The Sorority supports Pine Mountain Settlement School through the Alpha Sigma Tau National Foundation, Inc.\n\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20080703153811/http://pinemountainsettlementschool.com/history.php\n\n"}
{"id": "49717310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49717310", "title": "Reifenstein schools", "text": "Reifenstein schools\n\nThe Reifenstein schools () were the various schools of higher education for women associated with the Reifensteiner Verband.\n\nThe concept was initiated by Ida von Kortzfleisch, a Prussian noble woman and early German feminist. Reifenstein refers to Reifenstein in Eichsfeld, a municipality in Thuringia and site of the first permanent school. From 1897 to 1990 the Reifensteiner Verband operated about 15 of its own schools and cooperated with further operators. About 40 \"wirtschaftliche Frauenschulen\", rural women economy schools were connected to the Reifenstein concept and movement. The association and its journals served as alumni network, provided a job placement service, strengthened home economics (Ekotrophology) as an academic discipline and were important for consumer advice and rural social services over all. About 90,000 women took the higher education courses. Some of the alumni, like Käthe Delius, Marie-Elisabeth Lüders und Freya von Moltke had an important role in German higher education and German society overall.\n\nUnder the German Empire until the early 20th century, household services played a central role for the employment of women. Instead of a systematic training as in the dual system of vocational education, the education of women in the countryside happened often along a training on the job principle. Young men at this time often gained skils from winter schools and various professional educational institutions. The rural women's education (or their shortcomings) was being deemed a troubled sector and a main topic of the early women's movement.\n\nAlready a 1913 doctorate, Joachim Kramer's thesis about the household education in Germany refers to the ongoing reform aspects. The 1870s saw some progress; the first winter schools had been founded by the Badische Frauenverein, founded by Princess Louise of Prussia in the state of Baden. While the winter schools lost their impact to permanent schools in Baden already before World War I, they gained importance in Bavaria in the 1920s. Kramer compared the German situation and the state of household education abroad. Switzerland, Belgium and Austria had winter schools. The Austrian education for rural women was comparably backward, and Switzerland took a leading position. In France, housekeeping was a topic in primary schools, but not part of higher education. According to Kramer, Iowa and the state of New York in the United States were then leading in the field.\n\nThe technical equipment and available technology for households gained importance in the 19th century. According to Hans Jürgen Teuteberg, the household literature then started to address women. Earlier works, like the Hausväterliteratur (Hlaford books, a German kind of early economic literature) addressed the \"pater familias\", male and noble heads of larger rural households. Within the second half of the 19th century, women - as house mother or housewives were being perceived and addressed. The new role of the housewife as head of the household was being deemed a positive development first and only later as \"how housewives were being made\" being deemed negatively.\n\nIn 1894, Ida von Kortzfleisch published an article in Tägliche Rundschau, a Berlin newspaper, called \"The Female compulsory service in the economist college for women.\" She responded to a series of articles by the writer Otto Leixner about the \"Female Question\" in Germany. Leixner had loathed the women's rights movement (as \"Weiberrechtlerinnen\") and he had deplored their alleged lack of patriotism. Kortzfleisch asked to establish a female service year, similar to the \"Einjährige\", a year of military service of male graduates of high schools. Ida von Kortzfleisch explicitly associated her efforts with women's right's as a citizen in the Kaiserreich. The controversy distributed to establish higher education for women in the \"wirtschaftliche Frauenschule.\"\n\nThe first classes started in Ofleiden, but was transferred to Reifenstein soon after. The states of Prussia provided an official acknowledgement in 1909. In 1913, the Reifenstein association was admitted to the Bund Deutscher Frauenvereine. The conservative and basically Protestant background did not hinder a cooperation with the Jüdische Frauenbund (Jewish women's association), which established a Jewish Reifenstein school in Wolfratshausen in 1926. \n\nThe Reifenstein association and its schools was included in the Reichsnährstand in 1934. The noble background of various pupils and the close connection to the Protestant church lead to some clashes with the regime. \n\nBad Weilbach, Chattenbühl, Obernkirchen, Wittgenstein and Wöltingerode reopened 1946 in the western occupation zones. The eastern parts went into state ownership in 1947. Some of the schools in the far Eastern part of Prussia, e.g. the Landfrauenschule Metgethen have been destroyed during the end of war. The 1960s saw major changes in the concept, e.g. the end of the compulsory maiden costume. The first male student was admitted 1980. The last two schools closed down in the 1990s and are now part of a Protestant youth organization.\n\nMarie-Elisabeth Lüders reported about mocking remarks from Berlin friends about the rural sites and background of the schools. provided material for improved household knowledge in Bavaria. She deplored the lack of quality cuisine in the free state of Bavaria and expected some improvements via the training courses provided by teachers trained in Reifenstein schools. The Bayerische Kochbuch (Bavarian Cookbook), a still famous household item, is not about specific Bavarian menus, but is based on the experience of the school in Miesbach.\n\n\nThe table contains schools owned by the Reifensteiner Verband. A further 25 schools have been associated with the Reifenstein concept, among them a school in Stift Finn in Estonia (1922–1939) and Lehrfarm (training farm) Brakwater, near Windhuk in the then German colony of Südwestafrika (Namibia). The name of \"Maid\" (older German for Miss or maiden) refers to the acronym Mut, Ausdauer, Idealismus und Demut (Courage, perseverance, idealism and humility). The symbols worne by the Maiden are valuable collectors items in the meanwhile, some tried to relate them with the \"Arbeitsmaiden\" of the Nazi \"Reichsarbeitsdienst\", which are however not connected in any way.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52152877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52152877", "title": "Sarah A. Gray", "text": "Sarah A. Gray\n\nSarah A. Gray (c. 1847 – January 8, 1893) was an American educator from the U.S. state of Virginia.\n\nSarah A. Gray was born in Alexandria, Virginia to parents William and Laura Dundas Gray. As her father was free and her mother was emancipated, she was able to attend St. Francis School in Baltimore (an opportunity which was not afforded to most African Americans at the time, under slavery). She began teaching at age 14.\n\nAs the Civil War progressed, many former slaves fled to Alexandria. To address the educational needs of their children, Gray and colleague Jane A. Crouch founded the St. Rose Institute, which remained open throughout the war. Gray established the Excelsior School in 1867, and became a teacher at Alexandria's first public school for black girls, Hallowell School, in 1870. She was named Hallowell's principal in 1883. During her tenure, she traveled to Northern states to study new educational methods and added high school classes to Hallowell's curriculum.\n\nShe retired in 1892 for health reasons, and died in 1893.\n\nIn 1920, Hallowell School for Girls was consolidated with Snowden School for Boys. The combined institution was named Parker-Gray School, in honor of Sarah A. Gray and fellow African American educator John F. Parker. After this closed, a new Parker-Gray High School was established in 1950. This remained open until 1965, when all Alexandria schools were integrated. In 1983, T. C. Williams High School's stadium was renamed Parker-Gray Memorial Stadium. The original school also lent its name to the surrounding neighborhood. \n\nIn 2016, Sarah A. Gray was honored by the Library of Virginia's Virginia Women in History program.\n"}
{"id": "1229004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1229004", "title": "School bus contractor", "text": "School bus contractor\n\nA school bus contractor is a private company or proprietorship that provides student transport services to a school district or non-public school. Of the 450,000 school buses operating in the United States, it is estimated that approximately 39% are operated by school bus contractors. In Canada (with some still operated by the school boards) and the United Kingdom, almost all school transportation is performed by contractors. \n\nA school bus contractor may range in size from an individual driver with a single bus, to a small company serving a single school or district, to a large multi-national company with as many as 60,000 buses. \n\nMajor school bus contractors currently operating in the United States and Canada include First Student, National Express, and Student Transportation Inc.\n\n"}
{"id": "31490960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31490960", "title": "Shashi Caan", "text": "Shashi Caan\n\nShashi Caan a design futurist, educator and author, her dedication to furthering human betterment through and by design is reflected in her 25-year design career.\n\nShashi Caan was educated at the Edinburgh College of Art, Scotland, BFA(Hons), and later at Pratt Institute, two master’s degrees, the first in Industrial Design and the second in Architecture, New York City.\n\nShashi Caan is the founding partner of \"THE COLLECTIVE US / THE SC COLLECTIVE UK\" which provides architecture, interior, workplace and product design solutions focusing on supporting people both pragmatically and qualitatively . \nIn 2013, Shashi Caan also founded \"GloW-DESIGN\" (Globally We Design), a global platform whose purpose is to generate and disseminate new design thinking, practice and processes to tackle the ever more pressing and contemporary problems facing humanity at large . In Singapore, in 2018, working with an international group of educators convened by the \"GloW-DESIGN\" program \"ReDesignEd, The GloW-DESIGN Educators Forum 2018\" formulated the \"Universal Design Educators Charter\". \n\nGloW-DESIGN is composed by five different programs:\n\n\nSince the 1980’s, Shashi Caan has held numerous teaching engagements at such institutions as Pratt and Parson the New School for Design in New York. From 2002-2007, Professor Caan was the Chair of the Interiors Program at Parsons and she served as the Faculty Trustee on the Board of Trustees for the New York School of Interior Design.\n\nCaan is the current CEO of the International Federation of Interior Architects/Designers (IFI) , for which she was President from 2009 to 2014 .\n\nDuring her presidency, in 2011, she conceived and helped to inaugurate the IFI Interiors Declaration . This Declaration, initiated with input from some 88 world counties. The Interiors Declaration has been adopted at city government level by some 124 world cities and two nations: the Philippines and Nigeria .\n\nShe is the author of the book \"Rethinking Design and Interiors: Human Beings in the Built Environment\", (Laurence King publisher, 2011) which has also been translated into Chinese .\nFormerly she was Senior Designer and Associate with Gensler and then Design Director and Associate Partner with Skidmore, Owings and Merrill .\n\n\n\n\n\n\nShashi Caan has delivered dozens of keynotes and public lectures, along with serving on many of international design juries. Most recent juries include:\n\n\n\"Rethinking Design and Interiors: Human Being in the Built Environment\", Laurence King Publishing 2011\nOver the last decade she has written some thirty articles, essays and critiques, published both in the US and internationally.\n"}
{"id": "54150357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54150357", "title": "Space Odyssey: The Video Game", "text": "Space Odyssey: The Video Game\n\nSpace Odyssey: The Video Game is an upcoming sandbox video game with 4X elements being developed by Space Media Ventures for Microsoft Windows, macOS, Linux, iOS, and Android systems, including virtual reality devices, anticipated for release in December 2018. The game is being co-developed by astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson, and will have some educational aspects as the player designs and grows parts of a virtual galaxy.\n\nPlayers in \"Space Odyssey\" are tasked with creating solar systems and larger stellar bodies in a virtual galaxy. This not only includes defining the planetary bodies within the system, but managing a spacefaring species as it harvests resources from those stellar bodies to expand its civilization through research, production, and trade to make said civilization successful. The game provides various challenges to players that, if completed successfully, rewards them with items to further help their species. Players will be able to share their creations with others and visit the systems that others have made. Initial ideas for the game include a virtual assistant voiced by Tyson and a story that begins on Proxima B.\n\n\"Space Odyssey\" is being developed by Space Media Ventures, and is a cooperative development including SMV's Creative Director, Mark Murphy and astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson. According to Murphy, the goal of the game is to provide an experience similar to \"Minecraft\" and \"Civilization\" to encourage players to explore space. While they recognize they wanted to make an educational game, Murphy said that they did not want it to be reduced to a series of quizzes or an open-ended world without any instruction, but instead make for a fun and interesting challenge to players of all ages. Tyson was originally skeptical on the idea when the studio approached him, believing the game was aimed at young players, but they demonstrated their plans to target the game for all-ages, bringing him aboard the project.\n\nTyson has input in the design of the game's challenges. The game is driven by real science and real physics, aspects which Tyson found crucial to creating a unique and compelling gaming experience. Further, Tyson, along with groups like Bigelow Aerospace and National Space Society have been consulted on the game to help provide ideas for realistic future technologies to be employed by the player. Tyson has worked with several guests from his talk show, \"StarTalk\", to help provide material in game to relate the science and understanding of game elements to the player. With the ability to share stellar systems among players, the developers have gotten Tyson, Len Wein, the Star Talk All-Stars,and Peter Beagle to participate in creating their own systems that players can visit and study.\n\nThe title was announced in October 2016, and Space Media Ventures hosted an All-Star Panel featuring Tyson, James Gunn, Kiki Wolfkill, Randy Pitchford and moderated by Chris Hardwick to launch the community build of the game during Electronic Entertainment Expo 2017. To help support development, the team started a Kickstarter crowd-funding campaign to raise $314,159 in mid-June 2017. It is now also crowd-funding on Indiegogo.\n\n"}
{"id": "10807138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10807138", "title": "St. Edward's Secondary School", "text": "St. Edward's Secondary School\n\nSt Edward's Secondary School is a public Catholic secondary school in Freetown, Sierra Leone. Since its inception it has remained one of the country's most prestigious schools. While St. Edwards is designed to be an all-male school, female students are permitted to enroll as A Level candidates. It is affiliated with St. Edward's Primary School.\n\nSt. Edwards has a long list of distinguished former pupils, including many of Sierra Leone's top ranking statesmen, presidents and prime ministers. The majority of the school's pupils have gone on the attend institutions of higher learning including Fourah Bay College, Oxford University, University of Cambridge and Harvard University.\n\nSt. Edward's origins began with St. Edward's Primary School which was established in 1865 by a French Roman Catholic priest, Rev. Father Edward Blanchet. In 1921, the board of directors which consisted of a group of priests from Italy, France and Ireland decided to start a secondary school for the students. On February 6, 1922, the new secondary school opened its doors to seven St. Edward's Primary School graduates: Anthony Tucker, Sylvester Tucker, James Massallay, Edward Farrah, William Luke, Joseph Luke and Albert M. Margai - future prime minister of Sierra Leone. At that time, the secondary school was located at the same address as the primary school at Howe Street in Freetown. St. Edward's is the third oldest secondary school in Sierra Leone.\n\nThe first head master of St. Edward's was Father Michael O'Connor, but six months after the school opened, Father O'Connor retired due to illness and was replaced by Father Mulcahy. Under the stewardship of Father Mulcahy, St. Edward's Secondary School became a first rate academic institution which followed a strict, old-fashioned British curriculum and enforced discipline by means of corporal punishment. The sports programs at St. Edward's became a source of general admiration.\n\nToday, the school continues to be managed by a board of directors and the disciplinary committee remains intact. St. Edward's has maintained its longstanding traditions, which include a Scripture Union, a Literary Society and a Debating Society. The school also has a boy scout troop known as 8th Freetown.\n\nSt. Edward's is still widely held to be one of the best schools in the country. On May 1, 2000, headmaster J.P. Kamara and the school's Parent/Teacher Association started a Development Committee to facilitate the expansion of the school.\n\nPast headmasters include:\n\n\nThe house system at St. Edward's was instituted in 1934 by the school's second headmaster, Father Mulcahy, in order to encourage competitive sportsmanship among the pupils. Following the Eton model, St. Edward's employs a system which divides the pupils into five houses. Each house has a House Captain and Games Captain. House Captains are usually selected from the sixth form students. Games Captains are chosen from the school's most talented athletes from Forms 4-6. Initially there were five houses, each with its own color and each named after the most reverend fathers who founded the school. They are: O'Gorman (Red), Browne (Green), Wilson (Dark Blue), Blanchet (Light Blue), and Mulcahy (Yellow). Later a sixth house was founded and named O'Sullivan. Its color is white.\n\nThere is inter-house competition during each semester culminating in an annual inter-school track-and-field championship. Houses also compete in extracurricular activities such as academic contests, debate and drama.\n\nMembers of the student body are elected as school prefects. St. Edward's Disciplinary Committee delegates the execution of various punishments to the school's council of prefects. Prefects are also responsible for the leadership of their fellow students in sport and academics. The House Captains and Games Captains are a part of the council.\n\nSt. Edward's is nicknamed \"The Sports Academy\". Throughout the school's history, athletics have been a prominent attribute of St. Edward's. The school is surrounded by sprawling fields where students can play sports and train in their respective disciplines. The land was acquired by former head master, Father Mulcahy, for the sole purpose of executing an ambitious athletics plan for the pupils. This remains a hallmark of St. Edward's even today. The school has produced a number of gifted sportsmen who play at national and international levels. Among them is football star Mohamed Kallon who began his career with the school team, Old Edwardians FC and went on to play for Inter Milan. Kallon is currently the captain of national team, the Leone Stars.\n\nSt. Edward's has excellent music and drama programs. The school band was founded by Father Jeremiah O'Sullivan during the middle half of the last century. The school also has an acclaimed dramatic society called St. Edward's Theater.\n\nThe school band is the most remarkable in the country’s history of school brass band music. They have won the Balanta Academy of Music Awards three times under the directorship of James Pratt, making them the only premier brass band in the country. They are regarded as the most successful school brass band after creating the first ever school jazz band section supported by the Balanta Academy of Music. The band is sometimes fondly referred to by other school band members as the Renner Brass band for the illustrious support the four sons of the late principal M.A.C Renner; namely Augustine M. Renner (alto saxophone) the current bandmaster, Jerry M. Renner (baritone) the music director, Christie J. Renner (trombone), Raymond D. Renner (trumpet) a former director and ex-member of the Republic of Sierra Leone Armed Forces Regiment Band and the last Edward A. Renner (horn); the four are all-rounder’s in music as they can play just every instrument in the brass and woodwind section of the band.\n\nUnder the supervision of Rev. Fr. John Garrick, the band consists of 60 players with multi talents in choral and brass music. A few of them include Emmanuel Beal, a second lieutenant in the Republic of Sierra Leone Armed Forces, Oluwole Compagnie-Coker, Abubakarr Barrie, Derrick Lewis, Joseph Senesi, Daniel Mettle, Abu Amadu, Christopher L.D Pratt (jr), Musa Sam Gandah, Henry Gagba, John Adowale Washington Williams, Victor Gordon, Silvanus Parkinson, Daniel Brown, Allieu Badarr, Joseph Macaulay, Michael Scott, Foday Mansaray, Timothy Bala Kamara, Mohamed Koroma and many others. The Band also has distance members in Europe and America such as Michael Kuwaite, Michael Kanyako, Theophilus Morrison, Augustine Thorpe, Dauda Sannoh, Foday Kanyako, Lyndon Pratt, Fredrick Hudor, Abdulai Turay, Elizabeth Kanja, Michael Faux, Dian Davies and lots more.\n\nSt. Edward's celebrates February 6 as Foundation Day and October 13 as the Feast of St. Edward in honor of the school's patron saint, Edward the Confessor.\n\nStudents of St. Edward's are easily distinguished by their uniform which consists of a white shirt, dark shorts and a matching tie. In a country where there is no free compulsory education, attending secondary school is a rare privilege and the school uniform is a badge of honor.\n\n<poem>\n\"St. Edward Patron of our school\" \n\"And protector of our youth\" \n\"Guide us in our search for truth\" \n\"To the Holy Ghost Faithful\" \n\"Instill in us true leadership\" \n\"Model of Christian piety\" \n\"So may we always honor thee\" \n\"For all our lives to see\"\n\n\"The name Edwardian proudly stands\" \n\"In our country's honor roll\" \n\"Inspiring us to follow close\" \n\"Those who to great heights rose\" \n\"With prayers our battle we shall fight\" \n\"And all life's struggles win\" \n\"We shall be loyal to our school\" \n\"To our kith and kin\"\n\n\"However far in days to come\" \n\"Our lives may make us roam\" \n\"The closest friends will be those made\" \n\"In youth at boyhoods home\" \n\"Sing hail to Edward king and saint\" \n\"Confessor pure and chaste\" \n\"Enjoying now that heavenly bliss\" \n\"Which we soon hope to taste.\" \n</poem>\n\nSt. Edward's alumni are called Old Edwardians. While the school is open to all students regardless of their economic, social or religious background, it is a favorite of the Sierra Leonean oligarchy as it has produced an impressive number of statesmen and community leaders. Some of the most famous Old Edwardians include former Prime Minister of Sierra Leone, Sir Albert Margai and President Ahmad Tejan Kabbah. The senior generation of Old Edwardians are sometimes criticized for being a British-style old boy network. However, the alumni hold that they are most concerned with supporting their alma mater and contributing to the community. Among the younger generation of Old Edwardians, re-construction of the school is a key issue. The Georgia Chapter of St. Edward's Alumni Association runs a charity that raises funds to refurbish the school which was badly damaged during Sierra Leone's decade-long civil war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27932415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27932415", "title": "Stephen Benatar", "text": "Stephen Benatar\n\nStephen Royce Benatar (born 26 March 1937) is an English author from London. His first published novel, \"The Man on the Bridge\", was published in 1981. His second novel, \"Wish Her Safe at Home\", was published in 1982 and reissued in 2007 and 2010. He is known for self-publishing and self-promoting his novels.\n\nHis first novel, written at the age of 19 and titled \"A Beacon In the Mist\", was rejected, as were 11 subsequent novels. At the age of 44 his novel \"The Man on the Bridge\" was accepted by Harvester, and edited by Catharine Carver. He received a £400 advance for the novel. His second published novel, \"Wish Her Safe at Home\", was published by The Bodley Head the following year. The book was inspired by the 1947 film \"The Ghost and Mrs Muir\". It was runner-up for the James Tait Black Memorial Prize. He also won an Arts Council bursary. One novel, \"Such Men Are Dangerous\", was published by Scunthorpe Borough Council. However, sales of his published books were poor, and he took to self-publishing subsequent novels, including \"Father Of The Man\", \"Recovery\" and \"The Golden Voyage Of Samson Groves\".\n\nIn 2007, he tried to get \"Wish Her Safe at Home\" republished as a Penguin Classic but they turned him down despite an introduction by Professor John Carey hailing it as a masterpiece. He was turned down by 36 other publishers, so after slightly rewriting some of the passages he self-published 4,000 copies under his own Welbeck Classics imprint. He bumped into a man when returning some leftover wine from his book launch, and ask him to look at his book; he was Edwin Franks, the managing editor of \"The New York Review of Books\"'s publishing arm. Franks \"read the book straight away and was knocked out\", and \"The New York Review of Books\" published the novel in January 2010. Screen rights have been bought by a screenwriter who met Benatar in a bookshop, Henry Fitzherbert. In March 2011, Capuchin Classics will re-issue \"When I Was Otherwise\" in the UK with an introduction by academic Gillian Carey. Manuscripts and proofs of plays and novels by Benatar are archived by the Howard Gotlieb Archival Research Center at Boston University, along with drafts, short stories, notebooks, research material, book review, and letters.\n\nBenatar is known for his presence in bookstores every weekend, inviting people to read his work. He usually sells around 50-100 copies a day.\n\nNPR said that \"Benatar is a sharp wit whose many quirky novels have been unjustly neglected in the States\". Emma Thompson, Joan Bakewell and Joanna Lumley are fans of his work.\n\nNPR said of \"Wish Her Safe at Home\" that \"Benatar has written a surprising and piercing depiction of one woman's unraveling and the type of alienated urban life that can drive a sensitive soul to the depths of madness.\" John Carey called it a “masterpiece”. Doris Lessing wrote that it is “a most original and surprising novel”. \"The Observer\" wrote that the book has \"a brilliantly clever technique, with an impact particularly unsettling for those who choose to live alone.\" \"The Independent on Sunday\" wrote that \"this horrifying exploration of madness at least deserves to be called a cult classic.\"\n\nBenatar grew up on Marylebone High Street. He attended King's College London and Sittingbourne College of Education. He has worked as a salesman, a hotel porter, and an English teacher at the University of Bordeaux. On 23 January 1965 he married Eileen Dorothy Bird; they remained married for 29 years until he came out as gay and have two sons (Adam Luke and Piers Crispin) and two daughters (Prudence Hope and Dorothea Nan).\n\nIn 2007 \"Wish Her Safe at Home\" was reissued by Welbeck Modern Classics. John Murphy, his then partner, is credited with designing the cover.\n"}
{"id": "49638236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49638236", "title": "SuperProfs", "text": "SuperProfs\n\nSuperProfs is an education technology startup founded in 2010 and based out of Bengaluru. It provides exam preparation classes.\n\nSuperProfs was founded by Piyush Agrawal, a Stanford University PhD dropout, in 2010 to provide competitive exam preparation for Indian students. Piyush was named one of India’s top innovators under 35 in the EmTech Awards in 2016. He has also been featured in the Young Turks feature program of CNBC TV18.\n\nSuperProfs success has in part been the result of a mobile app that works at slower speeds of Internet connection by allowing students to download lectures. The download option bridges a technological gap in India.\n\nSuperProfs has raised three million dollars from venture capital firms Kalaari Capital and IDG Ventures India in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "21210190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21210190", "title": "Technical University of Tajikistan", "text": "Technical University of Tajikistan\n\nThe Technical University of Tajikistan is a university in Tajikistan. It is located in Dushanbe. A branch of the university () is also based in Khujand.\n"}
{"id": "1786269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1786269", "title": "The New Yankee Workshop", "text": "The New Yankee Workshop\n\nThe New Yankee Workshop is an American half-hour woodworking television series produced by WGBH Boston, which aired on PBS. Created in 1989 by Russell Morash, the program was hosted by Norm Abram, a regular fixture on Morash's television series \"This Old House\".\n\n\"The New Yankee Workshop\" featured the construction of woodworking projects, including workshop accessories, architectural details and furniture projects ranging from simple pieces to complex, high-quality reproductions of antique classic furniture. In the course of 21 seasons, approximately 235 projects were produced. In addition to furniture and cabinets, the show also focused on outdoor projects such as the building of a gazebo, shed, greenhouse, sailing boat, flag pole, mail box, cupola, and fences. He also goes to different places that are related to woodworking.\n\n\"The New Yankee Workshop\" theme song consists of a fast-paced guitar tune with a harmonica sound.\n\nThe shop where the show was produced is owned by Morash and is located on his property even though the viewer was given the impression that it was in Abram's backyard.\n\nThe shop is in size. The famous sliding barn door faces west. Along the west wall is the \"back bench\" and drill press. Along the south wall is the miter bench and storage unit, radial arm saw, and (not seen in episodes) a computer, a TV, and a small office area. The east wall of the shop has a staircase leading to a loft area, jig storage, horizontal edge sander, and dust collector. The north wall houses sheet goods, router table, bar clamps, Timesaver wide belt sander, planer, jointer, band saw, and various mobile tools. The center area of the shop consists of the table saw and associated outfeed tables as well as a large assembly table. In the northeast section of the building is a separate finishing room.\n\nOn October 16, 2009, WGBH Boston announced that no further episodes of \"New Yankee Workshop\" would be produced. In remarking on the end of the show, Abram stated, \"We've had a great run, built challenging projects, met wonderful woodworkers and received loyal support from millions of viewers.\" Abram later claimed that the entire duration of the show was fully funded through underwriting and could have kept going, but he decided he had accomplished everything he wanted to do and wanted to spend more time with his family. Episodes continue to be available on The New Yankee Workshop website.\n\n\nThe show was referenced in the second-season episode \"Clueless\" of \"House\". The title character, Dr. Gregory House is asked why he has a season pass for \"The New Yankee Workshop\" on his TiVo, and responds that \"[i]t's a complete moron working with power tools. How much more suspenseful can you get?\"\n\nOver the course of its 21 seasons, at least 235 projects were built on \"New Yankee Workshop\".\n\nThis was the last season to use the News Plantin credits font, which had been used since Season 1.\nStarting this season, the end credits are shown in a Copperplate font.\nBeginning this season, Norm Abram is added to the end credits.\n\nSeason 10 introduced a new episode numbering system. Previous seasons had been numbered in three digit format using the season number (1-9) as the first digit, and the episode number making up the last two digits. So, for example, the third episode of the 4th season would be episode number 403. Starting with this season, episode numbers consisted of four digits with the first two digits representing the last two digits of the year in which the season first aired and the last two digits representing the episode number within that season. So, the fourth episode of the 10th season, having first aired in 1998, would be episode number 9804.\n\nSeason 20 varied slightly in format from previous seasons in that the first nine episodes were devoted to a single, larger project. This project involved a kitchen remodeling and focused on cabinet construction. The kitchen being remodeled belongs to Morash. Season 20 also represented the last season in which original projects were constructed for the show.\n\nSeason 21 stood out from other seasons in that it had approximately twice the number of episodes of any previous season. The season also varied from previous seasons in that no new projects were built. Instead each episode rebroadcast a project built in a previous season. All of the rebroadcast episodes were from either the ninth or tenth season. Each \"new\" episode consisted of the original episode prefaced by a newly recorded introduction by Abram.\n\n"}
{"id": "33862559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33862559", "title": "Theory and Research in Education", "text": "Theory and Research in Education\n\nTheory and Research in Education is a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal that covers field of education. The editor-in-chief is Randall Curren (University of Rochester). It was established in 2003 and is published by Sage Publications in association with The Slovene Society of Researchers in the School Field.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed International Bibliography of the Social Sciences, Scopus, and Sociological Abstracts.\n"}
{"id": "50569512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50569512", "title": "UK Open Government National Action Plan 2016-18", "text": "UK Open Government National Action Plan 2016-18\n\nThe UK Open Government National Action Plan 2016-18 (NAP) is the plan setting out the UK government's commitments on transparency, anti-corruption and open government which was announced by Matt Hancock, MP, Minister for the Cabinet Office and Paymaster General on 12 May 2016 at the London Anti-Corruption Summit.\n\nThe plan makes 13 commitments:\n\nFor each commitment, the government has stated an ambition, a lead implementing organization and a timeline.\n\nAll countries participating in the Open Government Partnership are expected to co-create a National Action Plan with their civil society organisations. Open Government Partnership guidance states that \"action plans should cover a two-year period and consist of a set of commitments that advance transparency, accountability, participation and/or technological innovation\".\n\nFollowing the summit, another nine countries, including Mexico, agreed to apply the Open Contracting Data Standard (OCDS) to specific major projects. The UK will also lead on plans to create a new Anti-Corruption Innovation Hub with Mexico, France, Ghana, Georgia, Switzerland, Afghanistan, UAE, Indonesia and Norway.\n"}
{"id": "11569747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11569747", "title": "University Students' Council (Malta)", "text": "University Students' Council (Malta)\n\nThe University Students' Council (), also known in abbreviation as KSU, is a Maltese national students' union. It is the oldest extant student organization in Europe. The KSU was established by Arturo Mercieca (1878-1969), later Chief Justice Sir Arturo Mercieca (1924-1940), in 1901 as the Comitato Permanente Universitario, also previously known as University Permanent Committee. The students union is involved in students' national and international politics.\n\nThe KSU represents Maltese students on a national and international level who attend:\n\nThe student organization 'Kunsill Studenti Universitarji' (KSU) was founded in 1901.\n\nThe organization promotes and recognizes students contributions, given at the University of Malta and other related education institutions, which represents. KSU is a forum where students may express their opinion not related to their studies. The KSU gives an opportunity to contribute to the University of Malta.\n\nThe electoral system is a first past the post one, whereby a block vote winning the majority of votes elects all its candidates, to the executive committee. This brought a system of block-voting between student organisations.\n\nThe KSU is an evolving organization. It finds its roots in a set of simplified objectives. Over the past century, since its foundation, the KSU has been working to:\n\n\nOn an international level, KSU is a full member of European Students' Union (ESU), the international union of students in Europe. The ESU represesnts 45 National Unions of Students in 34 European countries, including KSU. It represents over 10 million students European students. It is regarded by the European Commission, the Council of Europe, UNESCO, the Bologna Follow-up Group, the European University Association (EUA) and various other stakeholders in education as being the leading representative voice of students in Europe. Throughout the years various Maltese Students have formed part of ESU Committees. KSU is an official founding member of MEDNET (Mediterranean Network of Student Representatives).\n\nSince 2007 the KSU welcomes freshers (students) on campus at the start of every new academic year at the University of Malta.\nEvery year the KSU encourages students to visit the University campus to meet their course mates, check out the company stands and get freebies.\n\nThe library of University of Malta, in collaboration with the KSU's proposal, launched its extended hours to facilitate students with their studies. In 2013, the library hours were extended for the Health Sciences library, to increase the study areas available and accommodate more students.\n\nThe following is a list of students organizations at the University of Malta:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15214203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15214203", "title": "University of Burgos", "text": "University of Burgos\n\nThe University of Burgos (in Spanish: Universidad de Burgos and often abbreviated UBU) is a public university in the Spanish city of Burgos with about 10,000 students studying over 30 different undergraduate degrees, over 20 PhD Programmes, as well as several Official Masters and other graduate courses.\n\nThe University of Burgos was founded in 1994 when it was segregated from the University of Valladolid. Since then it has grown and developed new academic fields placing it in a prominent position among Spanish Universities. From 1994-1997 it was governed by a management committee, chaired by Professor of Valladolid Dr. Marcos Sacristán Represa. Its first president was Professor Dr. José María Leal Villalba, from 1997 to 2008. His successor was Dr. Alfonso Murillo Villar.\n\nThe University of Burgos currently has nearly 10,000 students on two campuses:\n\n\n\nThe University of Burgos conducts its functions in eight different centres, five of their own as well as three associated schools:\nThe university also has a research and development centre, as well as three institutes:\n\nThe \"Hospital del Rey\" now central to the University's campus, is located along the Way of Saint James (Camino de Santiago) passing through west Burgos. It was founded by Alfonso VIII in 1195. Together with the Monastery of Santa María la Real de Las Huelgas it was a great shelter for pilgrims. Upon entry is the shrine of French saint San Amaro and the cemetery where they buried the pilgrims who died in the hospital.\n\nThe Hospital del Rey was built during the Renaissance, and retains some remnants of the early medieval hospital (such as the pillars of the old church). The entrance is through the Romeros Gate - now a symbol of the University. It is an arch decorated on both sides, with Jacobean-era references, as well as portraits of the founders (Alfonso VIII and Queen Eleanor).\n\nAccess to the Patio de los Romeros, is occupied by the Hospital's church which displays a Baroque-style interior. The atrium of the church opens to a section of the school used for ceremonial events. Here you will find the House of Sacristans - the Dean of the School of Law, access to the cafeteria, and the Rectorate building. Here in the beautiful garden setting is the \"chessboard\" where in summer there are musical activities to coincide with the summer courses at the university.\n\nVarious restorations to the remains of the facility earned it the \"Europa Nostra\" award.\n\nThe university has 5 libraries throughout the campus, one located in each of the 5 academic centres: School of Sciences, School of Law, School of Humanities and Education, the Polytechnic School and the School of Economy and Business where the university's main library is located. The libraries provide information resources for learning, teaching, research and training. It also participates in activities related to the management and operation of the university.\n\nThe university has also prepared an online electronic database available 24 hours a day where students and faculty can find books, magazines and download full articles. Services provided by the library include UBUCAT and WorldCat. UBUCAT is a computerized catalogue of the University Library. It allows access to records located in all 5 University of Burgos libraries: books, both print and electronic journals, audiovisual materials, electronic resources, databases, standards, theses and projects read at the University of Burgos, etc. WorldCat provides research access to libraries around the world.\n\nAccess to other catalogues include REBIUN (access to various Spanish university libraries), Libraries of the CSIC, National Library of Spain, The European Library, Worldwide Spanish Libraries, Libraries in Castile and León, and Public Libraries of Burgos.\nThe university's libraries also provide special work stations and research rooms for group work or individual research.\n\nThe library contains important old manuscripts.\n\n\nIn 1997 the Theater was born at the University of Burgos scheduling various activities in an effort to complete the cultural education of the university community and the general public.\n\nThe \"Aula de Teatro\" of the University of Burgos works together with other local institutions throughout the year to organize different and varied cultural events (University Theater Festival, Open Stage International Festival[Festival Internacional Escena Abierta], concerts, street performances, etc.)\n\nPlays put on include:\n\nThis Film and Audiovisual Club offers:\n\n\nThe University Sports Services offer a wide range of activities throughout the academic year and include:\nSports Services also organises student excursions such as bike riding, hiking, skiing, and diving.\n\nIn total, the University of Burgos has education agreements with over 100 international academic institutions.\n\nThe University of Burgos cooperates with the Erasmus Project, a European Union (EU) student-exchange programme, and each semester hosts students from various countries across the 27-state European Union, as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Malta and associated countries in Eastern Europe. Other countries, such as Cyprus and Turkey are presently under negotiations to participate in this program in the near future.\n\nIn addition, university students from various regions around the world including China, Latin and North America are able to participate in exchange programmes to study abroad at the University of Burgos. Participating North American institutions include Millersville University, San Jose State University, North Dakota State University, The Cooper Union, Boston University, University of West Florida, Western Michigan University and participating campuses of the University of California(UC) system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "163327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163327", "title": "University of Kansas", "text": "University of Kansas\n\nThe University of Kansas, also referred to as KU, is a public research university in the U.S. state of Kansas. The school is occasionally, though incorrectly, called Kansas University due to its KU nickname. The main campus in Lawrence, is on Mount Oread, the highest elevation in Lawrence. Two branch campuses are in the Kansas City metropolitan area: the university's medical school and hospital in Kansas City, the Edwards Campus in Overland Park, and a hospital and research center in Topeka. There are also educational and research sites in Garden City, Hays, Leavenworth, Parsons, and Topeka, and branches of the medical school in Salina and Wichita. The university is one of the 62 members of the Association of American Universities.\n\nFounded March 21, 1865, the university was opened in 1866, under a charter granted by the Kansas State Legislature in 1864 following enabling legislation passed in 1863 under the State Constitution, adopted two years after the 1861 admission of the former Kansas Territory as the 34th state into the Union following an internal civil war known as \"Bleeding Kansas\" during the 1850s.\n\nEnrollment at the Lawrence and Edwards campuses was 28,401 students in 2016; an additional 3,383 students were enrolled at the KU Medical Center for an enrollment of 28,091 students across the three campuses. The university overall employed 2,814 faculty members in fall 2015.\n\nOn February 20, 1863, Kansas Governor Thomas Carney signed into law a bill creating the state university in Lawrence. The law was conditioned upon a gift from Lawrence of a $15,000 endowment fund and a site for the university, in or near the town, of not less than forty acres (16 ha) of land. If Lawrence failed to meet these conditions, Emporia instead of Lawrence would get the university.\n\nThe site selected for the university was a hill known as Mount Oread, which was privately donated by Charles L. Robinson, Republican governor of the state of Kansas from 1861 to 1863, and one of the original settlers of Lawrence, Kansas. Robinson and his wife Sara bestowed the site to the State of Kansas in exchange for land elsewhere. The philanthropist Amos Adams Lawrence donated $10,000 of the necessary endowment fund, and the citizens of Lawrence raised the remaining money themselves via private donations. On November 2, 1863, Governor Carney announced Lawrence had met the conditions to get the state university, and the following year the university was officially organized.\nThe school's Board of Regents held its first meeting in March 1865, which is the event that KU dates its founding from. Work on the first college building began later that year. The university opened for classes on September 12, 1866, and the first class graduated in 1873. According to William L. Burdick, the first degree awarded by the university was a Doctor of Divinity, bestowed upon noted abolitionist preacher Richard Cordley.\n\nDuring World War II, Kansas was one of 131 colleges and universities nationally that took part in the V-12 Navy College Training Program which offered students a path to a Navy commission.\n\nKU is home to the Robert J. Dole Institute of Politics, the Beach Center on Disability, Lied Center of Kansas and radio stations KJHK, 90.7 FM, and KANU, 91.5 FM. The university is host to several museums including the University of Kansas Natural History Museum and the Spencer Museum of Art. The libraries of the University include Watson Library, Kenneth Spencer Research Library, the Murphy Art and Architecture Library, Thomas Gorton Music & Dance Library, and Anschutz Library. Of athletic note, the university is home to Allen Fieldhouse, which is heralded as one of the greatest basketball arenas in the world, and David Booth Kansas Memorial Stadium.\n\nThe University of Kansas is a large, state-sponsored university with five campuses. KU is a member of the Association of American Universities (AAU) and it is classified among \"R-1: Doctoral Universities – Highest Research Activity\" by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education. KU features the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences, which includes the School of the Arts and the School of Public Affairs & Administration; and the schools of Architecture, Design & Planning; Business; Education; Engineering; Health Professions; Journalism & Mass Communications; Law; Medicine; Music; Nursing; Pharmacy; and Social Welfare. The university offers more than 345 degree programs.\n\nIn its 2018 list, \"U.S. News & World Report\" ranked KU as tied for 115th place among National Universities and 53rd place among public universities.\n\nThe city management and urban policy program was ranked first in the nation, and the special education program second, by \"U.S. News & World Report\"'s 2016 rankings. \"USN&WR\" also ranked several programs in the top 25 among U.S. universities.\n\nThe University of Kansas School of Architecture and Design (Arc/D), with its main building being Marvin Hall, traces its architectural roots to the creation of the architectural engineering degree program in KU's School of Engineering in 1912. The Bachelor of Architecture degree was added in 1920. In 1969 the School of Architecture and Urban Design (SAUD) was formed with three programs: architecture, architectural engineering, and urban planning. In 2001 architectural engineering merged with civil and environmental engineering. The design programs from the discontinued School of Fine Arts were merged into the school in 2009 forming the School of Architecture, Design, and Planning (SADP) with three departments. In 2017, the Urban Planning department merged into KU's School of Public Affairs and Administration. Accordingly, the SADP was renamed to the School of Architecture and Design (Arc/D).\n\nAccording to the journal \"DesignIntelligence\", which annually publishes \"America's Best Architecture and Design Schools,\" the School of Architecture and Design at the University of Kansas was named the best in the Midwest and ranked 11th among all undergraduate architecture programs in the U.S in 2012.\n\nThe University of Kansas School of Business is a public business school on the main campus of the University of Kansas in Lawrence, Kansas. The KU School of Business was founded in 1924 and has more than 80 faculty members and approximately 1500 students.\n\nNamed one of the best business schools in the Midwest by Princeton Review, the KU School of Business has been continually accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) for its undergraduate and graduate programs in business and accounting.\nIn 2016, The University of Kansas completed construction on a new home for the business school, named Capitol Federal Hall. It is located at 1654 Naismith Drive, near KU's Rec Center and across the street from Allen Fieldhouse. Capitol Federal Hall is a 166,500 square-foot building complete with state-of-the-art technology and several research labs.\n\nThe University of Kansas School of Law, founded in 1878, was the top law school in the state of Kansas, and tied for 65th nationally, according to the 2016 \"U.S. News & World Report\" \"U.S. News Best Colleges Rankings.\" Classes are held in Green Hall at W 15th St and Burdick Dr, which is named after former dean James Green.\n\nThe KU School of Engineering is an ABET accredited, public engineering school located on the main campus. The School of Engineering was officially founded in 1891, although engineering degrees were awarded as early as 1873.\n\nIn the \"U.S. News & World Report\"'s \"America’s Best Colleges\" 2016 issue, KU's School of Engineering was ranked tied for 90th among national universities.\n\nNotable alumni include: Alan Mulally (BS/MS), former President and CEO of Ford Motor Company, Lou Montulli, co-founder of Netscape and author of the Lynx web browser, Brian McClendon (BSEE 1986), VP of Engineering at Google, Charles E. Spahr (1934), former CEO of Standard Oil of Ohio.\n\nThe William Allen White School of Journalism and Mass Communications is recognized for its ability to prepare students to work in a variety of media. The school offers two tracts of study: 1) News and Information, and 2) Strategic Communication. This professional school teaches students reporting for print, online and broadcast, strategic campaigning for PR and advertising, photojournalism and video reporting and editing. The J-School's students maintain various publications on campus, including The University Daily Kansan, Jayplay magazine, and KUJH TV. In 2008, the Fiske Guide to Colleges praised the KU J-School for its strength. In 2010, the School of Journalism and Mass Communications placed second at the prestigious Hearst Foundation national writing competition.\nThe University of Kansas Medical Center features three schools: the School of Medicine, School of Nursing, and School of Health Professions that each has its own programs of graduate study. As of the Fall 2013 semester, there were 3,349 students enrolled at KU Med. The Medical Center also offers four year instruction at the Wichita campus, and features a medical school campus in Salina, Kansas devoted to rural health care.\n\nThe university-affiliated independent University of Kansas Hospital is co-located at the University of Kansas Medical Center.\n\nKU's Edwards Campus is in Overland Park, Kansas. Established in 1993, its goal is to provide adults with the opportunity to complete undergraduate, graduate and certificate programs. About 2,000 students attend the Edwards Campus, with an average age of 31. Programs available at the Edwards Campus include business administration, education, engineering, social work and more.\n\nBeginning in the 2007–2008 academic year, first-time freshman at KU pay a fixed tuition rate for 48 months according to the Four-Year Tuition Compact passed by the Kansas Board of Regents. For the 2014–15 academic year, tuition was $318 per credit hour for in-state freshman and $828 for out-of-state freshmen. For transfer students, who do not take part in the compact, 2014–15 per-credit-hour tuition was $295 for in-state undergraduates and $785 for out-of-state undergraduates; subject to annual increases. Students enrolled in 6 or more credit hours also paid an annual required campus fee of $888. The schools of architecture, music, arts, business, education, engineering, journalism, law, pharmacy, and social welfare charge additional fees.\n\n, the annual tuition for 30 credit hours for a freshman is estimated by the university to be $9,579, not counting room and board costs.\n\nKU's School of Business launched interdisciplinary management science graduate studies in operations research during Fall Semester 1965. The program provided the foundation for decision science applications supporting NASA Project Apollo Command Capsule Recovery Operations.\n\nKU's academic computing department was an active participant in setting up the Internet and is the developer of the early Lynx text based web browser. Lynx provided hypertext browsing and navigation prior to Tim Berners Lee's invention of HTTP and HTML.\n\nThe school's sports teams, wearing crimson and royal blue, are called the Kansas Jayhawks. They participate in the NCAA's Division I and in the Big 12 Conference. KU has won thirteen National Championships: five in men's basketball (two Helms Foundation championships and three NCAA championships), three in men's indoor track and field, three in men's outdoor track and field, one in men's cross country and one in women's outdoor track and field. The home course for KU Cross Country is Rim Rock Farm. Their most recent championship came on June 8, 2013 when the KU women's track and field team won the NCAA outdoor in Eugene, Oregon becoming the first University of Kansas women's team to win a national title.\n\nKU football dates from 1890, and has played in the Orange Bowl three times: 1948, 1969, and 2008. They are currently coached by David Beaty, who was hired in 2014. In 2008, under the leadership of Mark Mangino, the #7 Jayhawks emerged victorious in their first BCS bowl game, the FedEx Orange Bowl, with a 24–21 victory over the #3 Virginia Tech Hokies. This capstone victory marked the end of the most successful season in school history, in which the Jayhawks went 12–1 (.923). The team plays at David Booth Kansas Memorial Stadium, which recently underwent a $31 million renovation to add the Anderson Family Football Complex, adding a football practice facility adjacent to the stadium complete with indoor partial practice field, weight room, and new locker room.\n\nThe KU men's basketball team has fielded a team every year since 1898. The Jayhawks are a perennial national contender, coached by Bill Self. The team has won five national titles, including three NCAA tournament championships in 1952, 1988, and 2008. The basketball program is currently the second winningest program in college basketball history with an overall record of 2,248-848 through the 2017–18 season. The team plays at Allen Fieldhouse. Perhaps its best recognized player was Wilt Chamberlain, who played in the 1950s, later becoming an NBA star and Harlem Globetrotter. Other notable Jayhawk basketball players include Phog Allen (who would later become head coach of the Jayhawks), Dean Smith, Jo Jo White, Danny Manning, Jacque Vaughn, Paul Pierce, Raef LaFrentz, Nick Collison, Kirk Heinrich, Mario Chalmers, Marcus Morris, Markieff Morris, Andrew Wiggins, and Joel Embiid, among others.\n\nKansas has counted among its coaches Dr. James Naismith (the inventor of basketball), Basketball Hall of Fame inductee Phog Allen (\"the Father of basketball coaching\" and a Kansas alumni himself), Basketball Hall of Fame inductee Roy Williams, and Basketball Hall of Fame inductee and former NBA Champion Detroit Pistons coach Larry Brown. Currently, Kansas is coached by Basketball Hall of Fame inductee Bill Self. In addition, legendary University of Kentucky coach and Basketball Hall of Fame inductee Adolph Rupp played for KU's 1922 and 1923 Helms National Championship teams, and NCAA Hall of Fame inductee and University of North Carolina Coach Dean Smith played for KU's 1952 NCAA Championship team. Both Rupp and Smith played under Phog Allen. Allen also coached Hall of Fame coaches Dutch Lonborg and Ralph Miller. Allen founded the National Association of Basketball Coaches (NABC), which started what is now the NCAA Tournament. The Tournament began in 1939 under the NABC and the next year was handed off to the newly formed NCAA.\n\nNotable non-varsity sports include rugby, men's hockey, and men's soccer. The rugby team owns its private facility and internationally tours every two years.\n\nSheahon Zenger was introduced as KU's new athletic director in January 2011. Under former athletic director Lew Perkins, the department's budget increased from $27.2 million in 2003 (10th in the conference) to currently over $50 million thanks in large part to money raised from a new priority seating policy at Allen Fieldhouse, a new $26.67 million eight-year contract with Adidas replacing an existing contract with Nike, and a new $40.2 million seven-year contract with ESPN Regional Television. The additional funds brought improvements to the university, including:\nThe University of Kansas has had more teams (70) compete in the National Debate Tournament than any other university. Kansas has won the tournament 6 times (1954, 1970, 1976, 1983, 2009 and 2018) and had 15 teams make it to the final four. Kansas trails only Northwestern (15) and Harvard (7) for most tournaments won, and is tied with Dartmouth (6). Kansas also won the Copeland Award in 1981-82 and 2017-18.\n\nNotable among a number of songs commonly played and sung at various events such as commencement and convocation, and athletic games are: \"I’m a Jayhawk\", \"Fighting Jayhawk\", \"Kansas Song\", \"Sunflower Song\", \"Crimson and the Blue\", \"Red and Blue\", the \"Rock Chalk, Jayhawk\" chant\", \"Home on the Range\" and \"Stand Up and Cheer.\"\n\nThe university's newspaper is \"University Daily Kansan\", which placed first in the Intercollegiate Writing Competition of the prestigious William Randolph Hearst Writing Foundation competition, often called \"The Pulitzers of College Journalism\" in 2007. In Winter 2008, a group of students created KUpedia, a wiki about all things KU. They received student funding for operations in 2008–09. The KU Department of English publishes the \"Coal City Review\", an annual literary journal of prose, poetry, reviews and illustrations. The \"Review\" typically features the work of many writers, but periodically spotlights one author, as in the case of 2006 Nelson Poetry Book Award-winner \"Voyeur Poems\" by Matthew Porubsky.\n\nThe \"University Daily Kansan\" operates outside of the university's William Allen White School of Journalism and reaches at least 30,000 daily readers through its print and online publications\n\nThe university houses the following public broadcasting stations: KJHK, a student-run campus radio station, KUJH-LP, an independent station that primarily broadcasts public affairs programs, and KANU, the NPR-affiliated radio station. Kansas Public Radio station KANU was one of the nation's first public radio stations. KJHK, the campus radio has roots back to 1952 and is completely run by students.\n\nThe first union was built on campus in 1926 as a campus community center. The unions are still the \"living rooms\" of campus and include three locations – the Kansas Union and Burge Union at the Lawrence Campus and Jayhawk Central at the Edwards Campus. The KU Memorial Unions Corporation manages the KU Bookstore (with seven locations). The KU Bookstore is the official bookstore of KU. The Corporation also includes KU Dining Services, with more than 20 campus locations, including The Market (inside the Kansas Union) and The Underground (located in Wescoe Hall). The KU Bookstore and KU Dining Services are not-for-profit, with proceeds supporting student programs, such as Student Union Activities.\n\nKU Endowment was established in 1891 as the university's primary institutional foundation. Its mission is to partner with donors in providing philanthropic support to build a greater University of Kansas.\n\n325 Fulbright Scholars, 27 Rhodes Scholars, 12 MacArthur Fellows, 7 Pulitzer Prize winners, 4 NASA astronauts, 3 Nobel Prize laureates, 2 Fields Medal winners, and 2 Hugo Award and Nebula Award winners have been affiliated with the university as students, researchers, or faculty members.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3568256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3568256", "title": "Videobook", "text": "Videobook\n\nVideoBook is a brand of online, interactive educational videos marketed by Studio 21.\n\nThe name \"VideoBook\" was first registered and used in the United Kingdom (UK) in 1982 by Barry R. Pyatt, the owner of Yorkshire film producers \"Studio 21.\" VideoBook was the marque, trading title and style for local-interest and sell-through video films. The name VideoBook was in commercial use by Studio 21 in the UK and Spain until 2003. In 2004, Pyatt opened AngelFilms in Spain, which took over the VideoBook marque. In 2005, AngelFilms-UK was established, and in 2008, VideoBook products were re-launched in the UK.\n\nVideo Books are identified and registered with the ISBN agencies. The trademark style is as one word, with uppercase V and uppercase B, in a modified Bookman typeface, and is Pyatt's exclusive property.\n\nThe name \"videobook\" (without the two uppercase characters) has become a standard term for a form of online training that delivers downloadable training videos. Most video books are single website entities that focus on teaching a particular topic.\n\nVideo books are similar in content and structure to a \"regular\" book. The videos are typically recorded by a trained instructor and offered to the viewer on a subscription model. The user visits the video book (the website containing the training videos), purchases a subscription and can then download the videos.\n\nVideo Books are different from many Computer-based training (CBT) models in that they are typically in a shareable and portable format. They also differ in content delivery.\n\nIn contrast to printed books and audio books which rely solely on text and audio, respectively, the basic component of a videobook is video. The video book can have on-screen text along with pictures and video clips. The text may be animated along with related audio background commentary.\n\nThe student can watch videos in any order. Once downloaded, no Internet connection is necessary. The videos use non-proprietary formats. The target market is usually an individual instead of an organization. Videobook materials may involve presentation software such as PowerPoint, screen-capture software such as Camtasia and text-to-speech software, such as TextAloudMP3.\n\nPaid Videobook (online, offline) - videobook online(offline) using the private information in the form of thoughts of a person registered on the Internet project has temporal properties: time, date, month, year of writing. Copyrights are registered online on authoritative sources confirmed . Payment for the information contained in the paid videobook takes place in credit, after reading it.\nInformation source\n\n\n"}
{"id": "553989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=553989", "title": "Westminster International University in Tashkent", "text": "Westminster International University in Tashkent\n\nWestminster International University in Tashkent (WIUT) is Uzbekistan's first international university. The university is the first in Central Asia to offer a Western education, with UK qualifications. WIUT was established in 2002 in conjunction with the \"UMID\" Presidential Foundation, the Ministry of Higher and Secondary Specialised Education and the University of Westminster in London.\n\nThe objective of establishing WIUT was to provide an international standard of Higher Education in Uzbekistan to enable citizens of Uzbekistan and other countries to obtain an internationally recognised Bachelor education in Business Administration, Business Information Systems, Economics and Commercial Law, all validated by the University of Westminster. From 2005, WIUT has offered the first Internationally accredited Masters of Arts in International Business and Management as well as a professional qualification for teachers, the Post Graduate Certificate in Special Studies – Teaching and Learning. (Adopted from WIUT official site)\n\nWIUT offers an international teaching team with a dynamic student-centered teaching and learning philosophy. All teaching and assessment takes place in English. The first intake of students began their studies in October 2002 and the new university premises were inaugurated in spring 2003. WIUT has now an alumni 400 graduates and has established itself as the premier International University in Central Asia. The university has been developed and is managed on UK/International principles and practices.\n\nWIUT's graduates continue their career/education in top companies and other universities.\n\nThe university offers the following programmes:\n\nIt is delivered in English and if one is not a native English speaker or have an international bachelor's degree, taught and assessed in English then you have to demonstrate a high-level English language proficiency (IELTS 6.5 or TOEFL 100 (IBT) or TOEFL 250 (CBT) at least).\n\nIntroduction to the course\n\nThis course, the Postgraduate Certificate of Special Study in Teaching and Learning, is intended for practising teachers who want to improve their professional skills. It is made up of a single level 7, 20 credit core module: ‘Theory and Practice of Teaching and Learning’. The certificate is a University of Westminster (UPgCert.jpgK) award which has been validated for delivery in Westminster International University in Tashkent.\n\nParticipants will be staff of WIUT, or those from partner institutions engaged in higher, further or secondary education. WIUT staff members and those from other Higher and Further Education institutions will normally be full- or part-time lecturers. Participants from Secondary schools will normally be teachers working with students aged 14 and above who have already received some initial or in-service teacher training\n\nBachelor of Arts (Honours) in Business Administration (BA Business Administration)\n\n\nThe courses are validated by the University of Westminster (UK), which awards the qualification. The Certificate in Foundation Studies is accepted as an entry qualification for UK degrees. Successful completion will enable the student to progress to a UK degree course.\nThe Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science are standard UK three-year programmes.\n\nFor entry to the CIFS a candidate must:\nor\n\nFor entry to the DEGREE COURSES a candidate must: \nor \n\n– For Entry master's degree \nCompletion of undergraduate study in any discipline\nWork experience\nEnglish – IELTS 6.5 (writing minimum 6.0) or TOEFL\n\n Master of Arts in International Business & Management (MAIBM)\n\nAn Internationally Recognized master's degree in International Business & Management (MAIBM) is a British master's degree awarded by the University of Westminster (UK London) and delivered at Westminster International University in Tashkent. The course content reflects the increasing globalization of both the knowledge and practice base of business and management education.\n\nIt is designed for students with some initial business experience and whose first degree is in a subject other than business. It consists of an intensive introduction to all aspects of management drawing from the experiences of the student body to reflect on the nature of management in an international business environment.\n\nCourses:\n\nAspects of Marketing Management\nHuman Resources Strategies for International Manager\nInformation Management\nManagerial Accounting\nThe International Economy\nInternational Business Policy\nPROJECT (a double module, completed over the summer)\nOptional modules\n\n"}
{"id": "50669493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50669493", "title": "White House Internship Program", "text": "White House Internship Program\n\nThe White House Internship Program is a government internship program for students and graduates to work at the White House.\n\nThe White House Internship Program is unpaid. Interns must be U.S. citizens and at least 18 years of age, and must be either a current student, recent graduate, or veteran of the United States Armed Forces. Those selected for the program are able to work in one of sixteen available presidential departments.\n\nThe White House Internship Program is split into three semester seasons: Summer, Fall, and Spring.\n\nIn addition to the opportunity to work in the Executive Office of the President, the White House Internship Program also includes a speaker series, tours to sites around Washington, D.C., opportunities to volunteer in the community, and attendance at special events.\n\n\n\nOfficial website\n"}
{"id": "48633983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48633983", "title": "Wilson High School (Tirana)", "text": "Wilson High School (Tirana)\n\nWilson High School was established in May 2001, on the initiative of President of the Board of Directors Mr. Masha.\n\nIt is licensed from the Ministry of Education and Science of Albania as a non-public educational institution by order no. 266 dt. 06. 09. 2000 Prot. nr. 1876/1, Order no. 120 dt. 21. 05. 2002 Prot. No. 1775. Since its creation Wilson was named in honor of the US president, who is known for his contribution in favor of the Albanian issue by protecting its legitimate right to self-determination.\n\nIn 2001, the Institute opened its doors to 90 students with a staff consisting of 12 teachers and 8 service employees. In 2006 he graduated the first 42 graduates who attended universities in Albania, UK, France, USA, Italy, Greece. In 2007, the institute is a modern educational center that offers educational service quality, effective and efficient pre-school children, students of 9-year cycle students teenagers aged 15-18.\n\nToday, only the teaching staff is composed of its 76 teachers. Developing preschoolers in some environments that are adapted to concrete philosophy of education \"Step by Step\".\n\n9-year education provided in 4-storey building, located between the library, amphitheater and facilities for physical education.The amphitheatre has a capacity of 300 seats, it provides conditions for artistic and promotional activities. He has all the accessories for acting, lighting and projection. In view of physical education, there are many areas of campus: the fields of basketball, volleyball, tennis and football. Secondary eduacation students are in the cozy environment of the main part of the institute. Environments, with classes up to 20 students, are organized according to a concept that enables modern teaching and learning.\n"}
