{"id": "4517597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4517597", "title": "Afro-Puerto Ricans", "text": "Afro-Puerto Ricans\n\nThe history of Puerto Ricans of African descent begins with free African men, known as \"libertos,\" who accompanied the Spanish Conquistadors in the invasion of the island. The Spaniards enslaved the Taínos (the native inhabitants of the island), many of whom died as a result of new infectious diseases and the Spaniards' oppressive colonization efforts. Spain's royal government needed laborers and began to rely on slavery to staff their mining and fort-building operations. The Crown authorized importing enslaved West Africans. As a result, the majority of the African peoples who entered Puerto Rico were part of the forced migration of the Atlantic slave trade, and came from many different cultures and peoples of the African continent.\n\nWhen the gold mines in Puerto Rico were declared depleted, the Spanish Crown no longer considered the island to be a high colonial priority. Its chief ports served primarily as a garrison to support naval vessels. The Spaniards encouraged free people of color from British and French possessions in the Caribbean to emigrate to Puerto Rico, to provide a population base to support the Puerto Rican garrison. The Spanish decree of 1789 allowed slaves to earn or buy their freedom; however, this did little to help their situation. The expansion of sugar cane plantations drove up demand for labor and the slave population increased dramatically as new slaves were imported. Throughout the years, there were many slave revolts in the island. Slaves who were promised their freedom joined the 1868 uprising against Spanish colonial rule in what is known as the Grito de Lares. On March 22, 1873, slavery was abolished in Puerto Rico. The contributions of ethnic Africans to the music, art, language, and heritage have been instrumental in Puerto Rican culture.\n\nWhen Ponce de León and the Spaniards arrived on the island of Borikén (Puerto Rico), they were greeted by the Cacique Agüeybaná, the supreme leader of the peaceful Taíno tribes on the island. Agüeybaná helped to maintain the peace between the Taíno and the Spaniards. According to historian Ricardo Alegria, in 1509 Juan Garrido was the first free black man to set foot on the island; he was a conquistador who was part of Juan Ponce de León's entourage. Garrido was born on the West African coast, the son of an African king. In 1508, he joined Juan Ponce de León to explore Puerto Rico and prospect for gold. In 1511, he fought under Ponce de León to repress the Carib and the Taíno, who had joined forces in Puerto Rico in a great revolt against the Spaniards. Garrido next joined Hernán Cortés in the Spanish conquest of Mexico. Another free black man who accompanied de León was Pedro Mejías. Mejías married a Taíno woman chief (a cacica), by the name of Yuisa. Yuisa was baptized as Catholic so that she could marry Mejías. She was given the Christian name of Luisa (the town Loíza, Puerto Rico was named for her.)\n\nThe peace between the Spanish and the Taíno was short-lived. The Spanish took advantage of the Taínos' good faith and enslaved them, forcing them to work in the gold mines and in the construction of forts. Many Taíno died, particularly due to epidemics of smallpox, to which they had no immunity. Other Taínos committed suicide or left the island after the failed Taíno revolt of 1511.\nFriar Bartolomé de las Casas, who had accompanied Ponce de León, was outraged at the Spanish treatment of the Taíno. In 1512 he protested at the council of Burgos at the Spanish Court. He fought for the freedom of the natives and was able to secure their rights. The Spanish colonists, fearing the loss of their labor force, also protested before the courts. They complained that they needed manpower to work in the mines, build forts, and supply labor for the thriving sugar cane plantations. As an alternative, Las Casas suggested the importation and use of African slaves. In 1517, the Spanish Crown permitted its subjects to import twelve slaves each, thereby beginning the slave trade in their colonies.\nAccording to historian Luis M. Diaz, the largest contingent of African slaves came from the areas of the present-day Gold Coast, Nigeria, and Dahomey, and the region known as the area of Guineas, together known as the Slave Coast. The vast majority were Yorubas and Igbos, ethnic groups from Nigeria, and Bantus from the Guineas. The number of slaves in Puerto Rico rose from 1,500 in 1530 to 15,000 by 1555. The slaves were stamped with a hot iron on the forehead, a branding which meant that they were brought to the country legally and prevented their kidnapping.\n\nAfrican slaves were sent to work in the gold mines to replace the Taíno, or to work in the fields in the island's ginger and sugar industries. They were allowed to live with their families in a bohio (hut) on the master's land, and were given a patch of land where they could plant and grow vegetables and fruits. Blacks had little or no opportunity for advancement and faced discrimination from the Spaniards. Slaves were educated by their masters and soon learned to speak the master's language, educating their own children in the new language. They enriched the \"Puerto Rican Spanish\" language by adding words of their own. The Spaniards considered the blacks superior to the Taíno, since the latter were unwilling to assimilate. The slaves, in contrast, had little choice but to adapt to their lives. Many converted (at least nominally) to Christianity; they were baptized by the Catholic Church and were given the surnames of their masters. Many slaves were subject to harsh treatment; and women were subject to sexual abuse because of the power relationships. The majority of the Conquistadors and farmers who settled the island had arrived without women; many of them intermarried with the blacks or Taínos. Their mixed-race descendants formed the first generations of the early Puerto Rican population.\n\nIn 1527, the first major slave rebellion occurred in Puerto Rico, as dozen of slaves fought against the colonists in a brief revolt. The few slaves who escaped retreated to the mountains, where they resided as maroons with surviving Taínos. During the following centuries, by 1873 slaves had carried out more than twenty revolts. Some were of great political importance, such as the Ponce and Vega Baja conspiracies.\n\nBy 1570, the colonists found that the gold mines were depleted. After gold mining ended on the island, the Spanish Crown bypassed Puerto Rico by moving the western shipping routes to the north. The island became primarily a garrison for those ships that would pass on their way to or from richer colonies. The cultivation of crops such as tobacco, cotton, cocoa, and ginger became the cornerstone of the economy. With the scale of Puerto Rico's economy reduced, colonial families tended to farm these crops themselves, and the demand for slaves was reduced. \n\nWith rising demand for sugar on the international market, major planters increased their cultivation and processing of sugar cane, which was labor-intensive. Sugar plantations supplanted mining as Puerto Rico's main industry and kept demand high for African slavery. Spain promoted sugar cane development by granting loans and tax exemptions to the owners of the plantations. They were also given permits to participate in the African slave trade.\n\nTo attract more workers, in 1664 Spain offered freedom and land to African-descended people from non-Spanish colonies, such as Jamaica and Saint-Domingue (later Haiti). Most of the free people of color who were able to immigrate were of mixed-race, with African and European ancestry (typically either British or French paternal ancestry, depending on the colony.) The immigrants provided a population base to support the Puerto Rican garrison and its forts. Freedmen who settled the western and southern parts of the island soon adopted the ways and customs of the Spaniards. Some joined the local militia, which fought against the British in the many British attempts to invade the island. The escaped slaves and the freedmen who emigrated from the West Indies used their former master's surnames, which were typically either English or French. In the 21st century, some ethnic African Puerto Ricans still carry non-Spanish surnames, proof of their descent from these immigrants.\n\nAfter 1784, Spain suspended the use of hot branding the slave's forehead for identification. In addition, it provided ways by which slaves could obtain freedom:\n\n\nIn 1789, the Spanish Crown issued the \"Royal Decree of Graces of 1789\", which set new rules related to the slave trade and added restrictions to the granting of freedman status. The decree granted its subjects the right to purchase slaves and to participate in the flourishing slave trade in the Caribbean. Later that year a new slave code, also known as \"El Código Negro\" (The Black Code), was introduced.\n\nUnder \"El Código Negro,\" a slave could buy his freedom, in the event that his master was willing to sell, by paying the price sought. Slaves were allowed to earn money during their spare time by working as shoemakers, cleaning clothes, or selling the produce they grew on their own plots of land. Slaves were able to pay for their freedom by installments. They pay in installments for the freedom of their newborn child, not yet baptized, at a cost of half the going price for a baptized child. Many of these freedmen started settlements in the areas which became known as Cangrejos (Santurce), Carolina, Canóvanas, Loíza, and Luquillo. Some became slave owners themselves.\n\nThe native-born Puerto Ricans (criollos) who wanted to serve in the regular Spanish army petitioned the Spanish Crown for that right. In 1741, the Spanish government established the Regimiento Fijo de Puerto Rico. Many of the former slaves, now freedmen, joined either the Fijo or the local civil militia. Puerto Ricans of African ancestry played an instrumental role in the defeat of Sir Ralph Abercromby in the British invasion of Puerto Rico in 1797.\n\nDespite these paths to freedom, from 1790 onwards, the number of slaves more than doubled in Puerto Rico as a result of the dramatic expansion of the sugar industry in the island. Every aspect of sugar cultivation, harvesting and processing was arduous and harsh. Many slaves died on the sugar plantations.\n\n\nThe Royal Decree of Graces of 1815 was intended to encourage Spaniards and later other Europeans to settle and populate the colonies of Cuba and Puerto Rico. The decree encouraged the use of slave labor to revive agriculture and attract new settlers. The new agricultural class immigrating from other countries of Europe used slave labor in large numbers, and harsh treatment was frequent. The slaves resisted -from the early 1820s until 1868, a series of slave uprisings occurred on the island; the last was known as the Grito de Lares.\n\nIn July 1821, for instance, the slave Marcos Xiorro planned and conspired to lead a slave revolt against the sugar plantation owners and the Spanish Colonial government. Although the conspiracy was suppressed, Xiorro achieved legendary status among the slaves, and is part of Puerto Rico's heroic folklore.\n\nThe 1834 Royal Census of Puerto Rico established that 11% of the population were slaves, 35% were colored freemen (also known as free people of color in French colonies, meaning people of mixed-race), and 54% were white. In the following decade, the number of the slave population increased more than tenfold to 258,000, the result mostly of increased importation to meet the demand for labor on sugar plantations.\n\nPlanters became nervous because of so many slaves; they ordered restrictions, particularly of their movements off a plantation. Rose Clemente, a 21st-century black Puerto Rican columnist, wrote, \"Until 1846, Blacks on the island had to carry a notebook (Libreta system) to move around the island, like the passbook system in apartheid South Africa.\"\n\nAfter the successful slave rebellion against the French in Saint-Domingue (Haiti) in 1803, establishing a new republic, the Spanish Crown became fearful that the \"Criollos\" (native born) of Puerto Rico and Cuba, her last two remaining possessions, might follow suit. The Spanish government issued the Royal Decree of Graces of 1815 to attract European immigrants from non-Spanish countries to populate the island, believing that these new immigrants would be more loyal to Spain than the mixed-race Criollos. However, they did not expect the new immigrants to racially intermarry, as they did, and to identify completely with their new homeland. By 1850, most of the former Spanish possessions in the Americans had achieved independence.\n\nOn May 31, 1848, the Governor of Puerto Rico Juan Prim, in fear of an independence or slavery revolt, imposed draconian laws, \"\"El Bando contra La Raza Africana\",\" to control the behavior of all Black Puerto Ricans, free or slave. \n\nOn September 23, 1868, slaves, who had been promised freedom, participated in the short failed revolt against Spain which became known as \"El Grito de Lares\" or \"The Cry of Lares\". Many of the participants were imprisoned or executed.\n\nDuring this period, Puerto Rico provided a means for people to leave some of the racial restrictions behind: under such laws as \"Regla del Sacar\" or \"Gracias al Sacar,\" a person of African ancestry could be considered legally white if able to prove they also had ancestors with at least one person per generation in the last four generations who had been legally white. Therefore, people of black ancestry with known white lineage became classified as white. This was the opposite of the later \"one-drop rule\" of hypodescent in the United States, whereby persons of any known African ancestry were classified as black. As white Democrats regained power in state legislatures after the Reconstruction era, they asserted white supremacy, and passed laws for racial segregation and Jim Crow. The one-drop rule was formalized in laws passed in the South in the early 20th century, after the whites had disenfranchised most blacks at the turn of the century by creating barriers to voter registration and voting.\n\nDuring the 19th century, however, many southern states had looser constructions of race; in early 19th-century Virginia, for instance, if a person was seven-eighths white and free, the individual was considered legally white. Children born to slave mothers were considered slaves, no matter what their ancestry, and many were of mixed heritage. Among the most famous were the mixed-race children of Thomas Jefferson by his slave Sally Hemings. He freed all four surviving children when they came of age: two informally, by letting them \"walk away,\" and the two younger sons in his will.\n\nDuring the mid-19th century, a committee of abolitionists was formed in Puerto Rico that included many prominent Puerto Ricans. Dr. Ramón Emeterio Betances (1827–1898), whose parents were wealthy landowners, believed in abolitionism, and together with fellow Puerto Rican abolitionist Segundo Ruiz Belvis (1829–1867), founded a clandestine organization called \"The Secret Abolitionist Society.\" The objective of the society was to free slave children by paying for freedom when they were baptized. The event, which was also known as \"aguas de libertad\" (waters of liberty), was carried out at the Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria Cathedral in Mayagüez. When the child was baptized, Betances would give money to the parents, which they used to buy the child's freedom from the master.\n\nJosé Julián Acosta (1827–1891) was a member of a Puerto Rican commission, which included Ramón Emeterio Betances, Segundo Ruiz Belvis, and Francisco Mariano Quiñones (1830–1908). The commission participated in the \"Overseas Information Committee\" which met in Madrid, Spain. There, Acosta presented the argument for the abolition of slavery in Puerto Rico. On November 19, 1872, Román Baldorioty de Castro (1822–1889) together with Luis Padial (1832–1879), Julio Vizcarrondo (1830–1889) and the Spanish Minister of Overseas Affairs, Segismundo Moret (1833–1913), presented a proposal for the abolition of slavery.\n\nOn March 22, 1873, the Spanish government approved what became known as the Moret Law, which provided for gradual abolition. This edict granted freedom to slaves over 60 years of age, those belonging to the state, and children born to slaves after September 17, 1868.\n\nThe Moret Law established the Central Slave Registrar. In 1872 it began gathering the following data on the island's slave population: name, country of origin, present residence, names of parents, sex, marital status, trade, age, physical description, and master's name. This has been an invaluable resource for historians and genealogists.\n\nOn March 22, 1873, slavery was \"abolished\" in Puerto Rico, but with one significant caveat. The slaves were not emancipated; they had to \"buy\" their own freedom, at whatever price was set by their last masters. The law required that the former slaves work for another three years for their former masters, other people interested in their services, or for the \"state\" in order to pay some compensation.\n\nThe former slaves earned money in a variety of ways: some by trades, for instance as shoemakers, or laundering clothes, or by selling the produce they were allowed to grow, in the small patches of land allotted to them by their former masters. In a sense, they resembled the black sharecroppers of the southern U.S. after the American Civil War, but the latter did not own their land. They simply farmed another's land, for a share of the crops raised. The government created the Protector's Office which was in charge of overseeing the transition. The Protector's Office was to pay any difference owed to the former master once the initial contract expired.\n\nThe majority of the freed slaves continued to work for their former masters, but as free people, receiving wages for their labor. If the former slave decided not to work for his former master, the Protectors Office would pay the former master 23% of the former slave's estimated value, as a form of compensation.\n\nThe freed slaves became integrated into Puerto Rico's society. Racism has existed in Puerto Rico, but it is not considered to be as severe as other places in the New World, possibly because of the following factors:\n\nTwo Puerto Rican writers have written about racism; Abelardo Díaz Alfaro (1916–1999) and Luis Palés Matos (1898–1959), who was credited with creating the poetry genre known as Afro-Antillano.\n\nThe Treaty of Paris of 1898 settled the Spanish–American War, which ended the centuries-long Spanish control over Puerto Rico. Like with other former Spanish colonies, it now belonged to the United States. With the U.S. control over the island's institutions also came a reduction of the natives' political participation. In effect, the U.S military government defeated the success of decades of negotiations for political autonomy between Puerto Rico's political class and Madrid's colonial administration. Puerto Ricans of African descent, aware of the opportunities and difficulties for Blacks in the U.S., responded in various ways. The racial bigotry of the Jim Crow Laws stood in contrast to the African American expansion of mobility that the Harlem Renaissance illustrated. \n\nOne Puerto Rican politician of African descent who distinguished himself during this period was the physician and politician José Celso Barbosa (1857–1921). On July 4, 1899, he founded the pro-statehood Puerto Rican Republican Party and became known as the \"Father of the Statehood for Puerto Rico\" movement. Another distinguished Puerto Rican of African descent, who advocated Puerto Rico's independence, was Arturo Alfonso Schomburg (1874–1938). After emigrating to New York City in the United States, he amassed an extensive collection in preserving manuscripts and other materials of black Americans and the African diaspora. He is considered by some to be the \"Father of Black History\" in the United States, and a major study center and collection of the New York Public Library is named for him, the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture. He coined the term \"Afroborincano,\" meaning African-Puerto Rican.\n\nAfter the United States Congress approved the Jones Act of 1917, Puerto Ricans were granted US citizenship. As citizens Puerto Ricans were eligible for the military draft, and many were drafted into the armed forces of the United States during World War I. The armed forces were segregated until after World War II. Puerto Ricans of African descent were subject to the discrimination which was rampant in the military and the U.S.\n\nBlack Puerto Ricans residing in the mainland United States were assigned to all-black units. Rafael Hernández (1892–1965) and his brother Jesus, along with 16 more Puerto Ricans, were recruited by Jazz bandleader James Reese Europe to join the United States Army's Orchestra Europe. They were assigned to the 369th Infantry Regiment, an African-American regiment; it gained fame during World War I and was nicknamed \"The Harlem Hell Fighters\" by the Germans.\n\nThe United States also segregated military units in Puerto Rico. Pedro Albizu Campos (1891–1965), who later became the leader of the Puerto Rican Nationalist Party, held the rank of lieutenant. He founded the \"Home Guard\" unit of Ponce and was later assigned to the 375th Infantry Regiment, an all-black Puerto Rican regiment, which was stationed in Puerto Rico and never saw combat. Albizu Campos later said that the discrimination which he witnessed in the Armed Forces, influenced the development of his political beliefs.\n\nPuerto Ricans of African descent were discriminated against in sports. Puerto Ricans who were dark-skinned and wanted to play Major League Baseball in the United States, were not allowed to do so. In 1892 organized baseball had codified a color line, barring African-American players, and any player who was dark-skinned, from any country. \nEthnic African-Puerto Ricans continued to play baseball. In 1928, Emilio \"Millito\" Navarro traveled to New York City and became the first Puerto Rican to play baseball in the Negro Leagues when he joined the Cuban Stars.\n\nThe persistence of these men paved the way for the likes of Baseball Hall of Famers Roberto Clemente and Orlando Cepeda, who played in the Major Leagues after the colorline was broken by Jackie Robinson of the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947; they were inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame for their achievements. Cepeda's father Pedro Cepeda, was denied a shot at the major leagues because of his color. Pedro Cepeda was one of the greatest players of his generation, the dominant hitter in the Professional Baseball League of Puerto Rico after its founding in 1938. He refused to play in the Negro Leagues due to his abhorrence of the racism endemic to the segregated United States. \nBlack Puerto Ricans also participated in other sports as international contestants. In 1917, Nero Chen became the first Puerto Rican boxer to gain international recognition when he fought against (Panama) Joe Gan at the \"Palace Casino\" in New York. In the 1948 Summer Olympics (the XIV Olympics), celebrated in London, boxer Juan Evangelista Venegas made sports history by becoming Puerto Rico's first Olympic medal winner when he beat Belgium's representative, Callenboat, on points for a unanimous decision. He won the bronze medal in boxing in the Bantamweight division. The event was also historic because it was the first time that Puerto Rico had participated as a nation in an international sporting event. It was common for impoverished Puerto Ricans to use boxing as a way to earn an income.\n\nOn March 30, 1965, José \"Chegui\" Torres defeated Willie Pastrano by technical knockout and won the World Boxing Council and World Boxing Association light heavyweight championships. He became the third Puerto Rican and the first one of African descent to win a professional world championship.\n\nAmong those who exposed the racism and discrimination in the US which Puerto Ricans, especially Black Puerto Ricans, were subject to, was Jesús Colón. Colón is considered by many as the \"Father of the Nuyorican movement.\" He recounted his experiences in New York as a Black Puerto Rican in his book \"Lo que el pueblo me dice--: crónicas de la colonia puertorriqueña en Nueva York\" (What the people tell me---: Chronicles of the Puerto Rican colony in New York).\n\nCritics of discrimination say that a majority of Puerto Ricans are racially mixed, but that they do not feel the need to identify as such. They argue that Puerto Ricans tend to assume that they are of Black African, American Indian, and European ancestry and only identify themselves as \"mixed\" only if they have parents who appear to be of distinctly different \"races\". Puerto Rico underwent a \"whitening\" process while under U.S. rule. There was a dramatic change in the numbers of people who were classified as \"black\" and \"white\" Puerto Ricans in the 1920 census, as compared to that in 1910. The numbers classified as \"Black\" declined sharply from one census to another (within 10 years' time). Historians suggest that more Puerto Ricans classified others as white because it was advantageous to do so at that time. In those years, census takers were generally the ones to enter the racial classification. Due to the power of Southern white Democrats, the US Census dropped the category of mulatto or mixed race in the 1930 census, enforcing the artificial binary classification of black and white. Census respondents were not allowed to choose their own classifications until the late 20th and early 21st centuries. It may have been that it was popularly thought it would be easier to advance economically and socially with the US if one were \"white\".\n\nThe descendants of the former African slaves became instrumental in the development of Puerto Rico's political, economic and cultural structure. They overcame many obstacles and have contributed to the island's entertainment, sports, literature and scientific institutions. Their contributions and heritage can still be felt today in Puerto Rico's art, music, cuisine, and religious beliefs in everyday life. In Puerto Rico, March 22 is known as \"Abolition Day\" and it is a holiday celebrated by those who live in the island.\n\nMany African slaves imported to Cuba and Puerto Rico spoke \"Bozal\" Spanish, a Creole language that was Spanish-based, with Congolese and Portuguese influence. Although Bozal Spanish became extinct in the nineteenth century, the African influence in the Spanish spoken in the island is still evident in the many Kongo words that have become a permanent part of Puerto Rican Spanish.\n\nPuerto Rican musical instruments such as barriles, drums with stretched animal skin, and Puerto Rican music-dance forms such as Bomba or Plena are likewise rooted in Africa. Bomba represents the strong African influence in Puerto Rico. Bomba is a music, rhythm and dance that was brought by West African slaves to the island.\n\nPlena is another form of folkloric music of African origin. Plena was brought to Ponce by blacks who immigrated north from the English-speaking islands south of Puerto Rico. Plena is a rhythm that is clearly African and very similar to Calypso, Soca and Dance hall music from Trinidad and Jamaica.\n\nBomba and Plena were played during the festival of Santiago (St. James), since slaves were not allowed to worship their own gods. Bomba and Plena evolved into countless styles based on the kind of dance intended to be used. These included \"leró, yubá, cunyá, babú\" and \"belén.\" The slaves celebrated baptisms, weddings, and births with the \"bailes de bomba\". Slaveowners, for fear of a rebellion, allowed the dances on Sundays. The women dancers would mimic and poke fun at the slave owners. Masks were and still are worn to ward off evil spirits and pirates. One of the most popular masked characters is the \"Vejigante\" (vey-hee-GANT-eh). The Vejigante is a mischievous character and the main character in the Carnivals of Puerto Rico.\n\nUntil 1953, Bomba and Plena were virtually unknown outside Puerto Rico. Island musicians Rafael Cortijo (1928–1982), Ismael Rivera (1931–1987) and the El Conjunto Monterrey orchestra introduced Bomba and Plena to the rest of the world. What Rafael Cortijo did with his orchestra was to modernize the Puerto Rican folkloric rhythms with the use of piano, bass, saxophones, trumpets, and other percussion instruments such as timbales, bongos, and replace the typical barriles (skin covered barrels) with congas.\n\nRafael Cepeda (1910–1996), also known as \"The Patriarch of Bomba and Plena\", was the patriarch of the Cepeda family. The family is one of the most famous exponents of Puerto Rican folk music, with generations of musicians working to preserve the African heritage in Puerto Rican music. The family is well known for their performances of the bomba and plena folkloric music and are considered by many to be the keepers of those traditional genres.\n\nSylvia del Villard (1928–1990) was a member of the Afro-Boricua Ballet. She participated in the following Afro-Puerto Rican productions, \"Palesiana y Aquelarre\" and \"Palesianisima\". In 1968, she founded the Afro-Boricua El Coqui Theater, which was recognized by the Panamerican Association of the New World Festival as the most important authority of Black Puerto Rican culture. The Theater group were given a contract which permitted them to present their act in other countries and in various universities in the United States. In 1981, del Villard became the first and only director of the Office of Afro-Puerto Rican Affairs of the Institute of Puerto Rican Culture. She was known as an outspoken activist who fought for the equal rights of the Black Puerto Rican artist.\n\nNydia Rios de Colon, a contributor to the \"Smithsonian Folklife Cookbook,\" also offers culinary seminars through the Puerto Rican Cultural Institute. She writes of the cuisine:\n\nSimilarly, Johnny Irizarry and Maria Mills have written: \n\nIn 1478, the Catholic Monarchs of Spain, Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile, established an ecclesiastical tribunal known as the Spanish Inquisition. It was intended to maintain Catholic orthodoxy in their kingdoms.\n\nThe Inquisition maintained no rota or religious court in Puerto Rico. However, heretics were written up and if necessary remanded to regional Inquisitional tribunals in Spain or elsewhere in the western hemisphere. Africans were not allowed to practice non-Christian, native religious beliefs. No single organized ethnic African religion survived intact from the times of slavery to the present in Puerto Rico. But, many elements of African spiritual beliefs have been incorporated into syncretic ideas and practices. Santería, a Yoruba-Catholic syncretic mix, and \"Palo Mayombe,\" Kongolese traditions, are also practiced in Puerto Rico, the latter having arrived there at a much earlier time. A smaller number of people practice Vudú, which is derived from Dahomey mythology.\n\n\"Palo Mayombe,\" or Congolese traditions, existed for several centuries before Santería developed during the 19th century. Guayama became nicknamed \"the city of witches\", because the religion was widely practiced in this town. \"Santeria\" is believed to have been organized in Cuba among its slaves. The Yoruba were brought to many places in the Caribbean and Latin America. They carried their traditions with them, and in some places, they held onto more of them. In Puerto Rico and Trinidad Christianity was dominant. Although converted to Christianity, the captured Africans did not abandon their traditional religious practices altogether. Santería is a syncretic religion created between the diverse images drawn from the Catholic Church and the representational deities of the African Yoruba ethnic group of Nigeria. Santería is widely practiced in the town of Loíza. Sister traditions emerged in their own particular ways on many of the smaller islands. Similarly, throughout Europe, early Christianity absorbed influences from differing practices among the peoples, which varied considerably according to region, language and ethnicity.\n\nSantería has many deities said to be the \"top\" or \"head\" God. These deities, which are said to have descended from heaven to help and console their followers, are known as \"Orishas.\" According to Santería, the Orishas are the ones who choose the person each will watch over.\n\nUnlike other religions where a worshiper is closely identified with a sect (such as Christianity), the worshiper is not always a \"Santero\". Santeros are the priests and the only official practitioners. (These \"Santeros\" are not to be confused with the Puerto Rico's craftsmen who carve and create religious statues from wood, which are also called Santeros). A person becomes a Santero if he passes certain tests and has been chosen by the Orishas.\n\nAs of the 2010 Census, 75.8% of Puerto Ricans identify as white, 12.4% identify as black, 0.5% as Amerindian, 0.2% as Asian, and 11.1% as \"mixed or other.\" Although estimates vary, most sources estimate that about 46% of Puerto Ricans have significant African ancestry. The vast majority of blacks in Puerto Rico are Afro-Puerto Rican, meaning they have been in Puerto Rico for generations, usually since the slave trade, forming an important part of Puerto Rican culture and society. Recent black immigrants have come to Puerto Rico, mainly from the Dominican Republic, Haiti, and other Latin American and Caribbean countries, and to a lesser extant directly from Africa as well. Many black migrants from the United States and the Virgin Islands have moved and settled in Puerto Rico. Also, many Afro-Puerto Ricans have migrated out of Puerto Rico, namely to the United States. There and in the US Virgin Islands, they make up the bulk of the U.S. Afro-Latino population.\n\nUnder Spanish and American rule, Puerto Rico underwent a whitening process. Puerto Rico went from around 50% of its population classified as black and mulatto in the first quarter of the 19th century, to nearly 80% classified white by the middle of the 20th century. Under Spanish rule, Puerto Rico had laws such as \"Regla del Sacar\" or \"Gracias al Sacar\", which classified persons of mixed African-European ancestry as white, which was the opposite of \"one-drop rule\" in US society after the American Civil War. Additionally, the Spanish government's Royal Decree of Graces of 1815 encouraged immigration from other European countries. Heavy European immigration swelled Puerto Rico's population to about one million by the end of the 19th century, decreasing the proportion Africans made of Puerto Rico. In the early decades under US rule, census takers began to shift from classifying people as black to \"white\" and the society underwent what was called a \"whitening\" process from the 1910 to the 1920 census, in particular. During the mid 20th century, the US government forcefully sterilized Puerto Rican women, especially non-white Puerto Rican women.\n\n11% of Puerto Ricans identify as of multi-ethnic ancestry, and generally only as of \"mixed race\". Afro-Puerto Ricans have not had to cope with the same political situation as African Americans, who identified as black in part to collect their political power when trying to gain enforcement of their civil rights and protection of voting. However, in the 21st century, Puerto Rico is having a resurgence in black affiliation, mainly due to famous Afro-Puerto Ricans promoting black pride among the Puerto Rican community. In addition, Afro-Puerto Rican youth are learning more of their peoples' history from textbooks that encompass more Afro-Puerto Rican history. The 2010 US census recorded the first drop of the percentage whites made up of Puerto Rico, and the first rise in the black percentage, in over a century. Many of the factors that may possibly perpetuate this trend include: more Puerto Ricans may start to identify as black, due to increasing black pride and African cultural awareness throughout the island, as well as an increasing number of black immigrants, especially from the Dominican Republic and Haiti, many of whom are illegal immigrants, and increasing emigration of white Puerto Ricans to the mainland US.\n\nThe following lists only include only the number of people who identify as black and do not attempt to estimate everyone with African ancestry. As noted in the earlier discussion, several of these cities were places where freedmen gathered after gaining freedom, establishing communities.\n\nThe municipalities with the largest black populations, as of the 2010 census, were:\n\nThe municipalities with the highest percentages of residents who identify as black, as of 2010, were:\n\nImmigration to Puerto Rico series\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59132387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59132387", "title": "Alun Howkins", "text": "Alun Howkins\n\nAlun Howkins (8 August 1947 – 12 July 2018) was an English social historian, specialising in the history of English rural society. Regarded as a leading historian of the English countryside and its working class, Howkins was a professor of history at the University of Sussex and co-founder of the journal \"Rural History\".\n\nHowkins was born in Bicester on 8 August 1947 into a working-class family; his father, a Communist Party supporter, was a mechanic but a head injury sustained in World War II led him to take up less skilled worked as a store man later in life; Howkins' mother worked night-shifts in a hospital. After failing the eleven-plus examination, he attended Bicester Highfield Secondary Modern School; he later moved to a technical college in Banbury, but after he was expelled aged 15 he became an apprentice farm labourer. \n\nWithin a year and a half he had taken up a job at the ordnance depot in Bicester and in 1964 joined Pergamon Press as a copyeditor. Howkins had become involved with trade unionism while working as a farm labourer and at Pergamon he established a branch of the Clerical and Administrative Workers Union. He was introduced to the world of folk music at the same time, and through that the Communist Party. He was fired from his job at Pergamon in 1966 and worked for Blackwell's in Oxford for two years before enrolling at Ruskin College in Oxford, where he was taught by Raphael Samuel and became heavily involved in the History Workshop Movement.\n\nHowkins spent two years at Ruskin College, before completing an undergraduate degree at the University of Oxford; history and English were his chosen subjects. In 1973, he moved to the University of Essex to begin doctoral studies; three years later, he started working at the University of Sussex, and only picked up his PhD studies again in the early 1980s, largely re-writing his thesis; the PhD was awarded by Essex in 1982 for \"'The great momentous time': Radicalism and the Norfolk farm labourer 1872–1923\". At Sussex, he became a professor of history and director of the School of Humanities' Graduate Centre before retiring in 2010 (whereupon he was appointed an emeritus professor).\n\nOutside of university, Howkins was co-founder of the journal \"Rural History\", was an inaugural editor of the \"History Workshop Journal\", and wrote and presented the 1999 BBC television series \"Fruitful Earth\", alongside the series \"Edwardian Farm\" and \"Mud\"\", \". Howkins' interest in rural history was an expression of his lifelong commitment to social justice, which also laid behind his trade union activism and his support for the Labour Party. He was also a fond follower of folk music, performing in some of his lectures and classes, as well as outside university in several bands. In retirement, he moved to Norfolk. He died, aged 70, on 12 July 2018.\n\nWhen he died, \"The Daily Telegraph\" called Howkins a \"leading\" historian of English rural society, especially farm labourers, the rural poor and rural folklore of the 19th and early 20th centuries. Influenced by History Workshop, Howkins' research emphasised the long history of class conflict in the countryside and he explored the emergence of a distinctive class culture among the rural working class. But he was also keen to demonstrate the changing nature of rural England, as it became a place of leisure in the 20th century, and as it was influenced by the mechanisation of agriculture and environmental concerns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8906732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8906732", "title": "Bakran tribe", "text": "Bakran tribe\n\nThe Bakran tribe or Bagran tribe had connections with the Bagratuni Dynasty of Armenia and later Georgia and the Tirikan tribe with the Armenian King Tigranes the Great. The reconstruction of Lake Van immediately east of the country of the Bakran tribe. This is the area Tigrans family/clan was supposed to have dominated prior to its rise to the Armenian throne.\n\nThe Bakran tribe has given its name to the city of Diyarbakır, also engendered the Bagratid royal house, which ruled intermittently, first over the Armenians and later over the Georgians, with major interruptions from the 9th through the beginning of the 19th century. The original domain of the early Bagratids was in fact the area of Diyarbakır to Bingöl in northwest Kurdistan, according to Tergewondian.\n\nArmenian Research Center collection\nAuthor \nEdition illustrated, reprint\nPublisher , \n, 97\n"}
{"id": "76464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=76464", "title": "Batasuna", "text": "Batasuna\n\nBatasuna (; ) was a Basque nationalist political party. Based mainly in Spain, it was banned in 2003, after a court ruling declared proven that the party was financing ETA with public money.\n\nThe party is included in the \"European Union list of terrorist persons and organizations\" as a component of ETA. Right after having been banned, Batasuna still managed to organize or support some rallies, public actions and several workplace strikes. The Spanish ruling was appealed before and, later on, confirmed by the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nAs an association and not as a political party, Batasuna had a minor presence in the French Basque country, where it remained legal as \"Batasuna\" until its self-dissolution in January 2013.\n\nBatasuna's ranks and support base have been represented under different names since it was first declared legal in the late 1970s with the Spanish Transition to democracy. Thus, Batasuna's predecessors were the original Herri Batasuna and, then, Euskal Herritarrok. After having been outlawed in 2003, Batasuna's core support revamped yet again by co-opting the thus far marginal parties EHAK and Acción Nacionalista Vasca (ANV).\n\nBatasuna was a part of the \"Basque National Liberation Movement\" which includes social organizations, trade unions, youth (Jarrai and Gazteriak, now merged in Haika and Segi), and women's groups (Egizan). Jarrai-Haika-Segi, Gestoras pro-Amnistia, Askatasuna and other groups closely related to Batasuna were also declared illegal by different court rulings on the same charges of having collaborated with or being part of ETA.\n\nThe party was founded in April 1978 as Herri Batasuna, a coalition of leftist nationalist political groups mostly originating from Euskadiko Ezkerra initially brought together to advocate for \"no\" in the referendum to be held that year on the Spanish constitution.\n\nIts constituent parties had been called together by senior Basque nationalist Telesforo de Monzón in a 1978 meeting called \"the table of Alsasua.\" Herri Batasuna's founding convention was held in Lekeitio, home of Santiago Brouard who was then the leader of HASI (Herriko Alderdi Sozialista Iraultzailea or Revolutionary Socialist People's Party). The party won 150,000 votes in the Basque Country (15%) and 22,000 additional votes in Navarre (9%) in its first Spanish general election in March 1979. Thus, they won three seats in the Spanish Parliament, which they did not occupy. Same happened in 1980 in the first elections to the Basque Parliament, in which HB stood as second political force, with 151,636 votes (16.55%) winning 11 seats. Its absence allowed a BNP-only Basque Government led by Carlos Garaikoetxea. On 20 November 1984 Brouard was assassinated by two members of the GAL. The killing is perhaps the only one performed by the GAL death squad within Spain itself.\n\nAnother well-known Herri Batasuna leader and newly elected Spanish MP, Josu Muguruza, was assassinated by right-wing extremists in November 1989 in Madrid. GAL claimed responsibility for Muguruza's assassination. Suspicions also centered on Spanish neo-Nazi group Bases Autónomas.\n\nAmid the first talk of the Spanish government investigating the ties of Herri Batasuna with ETA, in 1998 Herri Batasuna was the driving force of the newly formed Euskal Herritarrok (\"We Basque Citizens\") coalition, an acronym which got the best results to date for Basque left separatism in the Basque community, with 224,000 votes out of a total of 1,250,000 in the Basque election held that year.\n\nThe most recent public party spokesmen was Arnaldo Otegi. Otegi, like a number of other top-ranks in Herri Batasuna, had been a member of ETA and served several years in prison for bank assault. He is currently serving time in prison for ties with ETA. \nAnother important member of Batasuna was José Antonio Urrutikoetxea Bengoetxea, alias Josu Ternera, the main leader of ETA between 1987 and 1989 and accused of a number of assassinations like the 1987 Hipercor bombing which killed 21 people at Hipercor - a shopping center in Barcelona. He was imprisoned in France after 1989, released after finishing his sentence and was transferred to Spanish prisons, where he stayed for 2 more years until his release by the Constitutional Court, which stipulated that he had served his prison term in France. He was included in the Batasuna electoral ticket and elected to the Basque parliament between 1999 and 2001, where he was appointed as his party's representative in the Human Rights commission at the Basque Parliament, which, given his criminal background caused a stir in the rest of parties. He disappeared when the Spanish courts reopened cold charges and presented new ones about his current membership in ETA. Presently he lives in hiding and is considered one of the leaders of ETA that are pushing for negotiations.\n\nAmid a period of separatist kale borroka street attacks on the offices of the Basque Nationalist Party and other establishment targets, Batasuna together with the union Langile Abertzaleen Batzordeak convoked a day of protest and general strike on 9 March 2006. On the morning of the strike, ETA detonated several bombs near highways, with no injuries. Employers reported scant overall participation in the strike, approximately 0.5% of private sector workers, 1% of government workers and 3-4% of workers in education. A few thousands of Batasuna militants joined protests, while others blocked rail lines and roads and occupied municipal halls Batasuna leader Arnaldo Otegi was ordered to appear in court to answer for the bomb attacks and disruption, but delayed his appearance repeatedly on the grounds of illness.\n\nIn September 2008, in what has been the closest to a disengagement of ETA so far, members of the party, while not condemning ETA's tactics whatsoever, did say the \"political-military strategy\" of the latter is an \"obstacle\" to aspirations for Basque independence. They called for a \"unifying project for the pro-independence left\" which would be aimed at creating an electoral list for regional elections to be held in Spring 2009.\n\nBatasuna's support in the elections to the parliament of the Basque Autonomous Community (under the three brands it has used, i.e., Herri Batasuna, Euskal Herritarrok and EHAK) oscillates around 15% of the total votes, its best result being the 18.33% achieved in 1990 and the lowest the 10.12% of the total votes obtained in 2001.\n\nIn Navarre its results in the elections to the Navarrese Foral parliament have been historically slightly less than 15% of the total votes, reaching their highest result in 1999 (15.95% of the total votes) and their lowest in 1995 (9.22% of the total votes). In this territory other Basque pro-independence left wing parties which reject violence and so remain legal - namely Batzarre and specifically, Aralar- eroded Batasuna's support in a more significant way than in the Basque Autonomous Community.\n\nBatasuna had representatives in the European Parliament and in the parliaments of Navarre and the provinces of the Basque Autonomous Community. It also ruled some 62 local councils, and had members in many more. While it was fairly represented in all Basque and Navarrese Spanish territories, Batasuna counted as its stronghold the province of Gipuzkoa. After being banned, Batasuna lost all its representatives in the Spanish Parliament, since regaining (under different names) some their seats in elections held after its banning.\n\nWhile the party has been barred from formally taking part in elections since 2003 (see below), it has coordinated a variety of forms of participation (or \"quantifiable non-participation\") in recent elections. After the May 2003 provincial and local elections, followers of the local lists protested claiming the council seats corresponding to the invalid votes (127,000, 10% of the total vote in the Basque Country).\nFor the Basque elections of 2005, Batasuna presented lists of candidates but they were dismissed as illegal. After the new election was held for the Basque regional parliament, Batasuna lost all their remaining elected representatives.\n\nLike those parties, representatives of EHAK refused to explicitly condemn the ETA attacks but, given the fact that elections were to be held in a matter of days, the courts did not have the time to assess EHAK's compliance with the Ley de Partidos. The People's Party requested that the Spanish government conducts investigations to ban EHAK-PCTV too, though the State Legal Service (\"Abogacía General del Estado\") and the Attorney General's Office (\"Fiscalía General del Estado\") found no evidence to support legal actions against the party. Batasuna asked their supporters to vote for EHAK.\n\nIn the Basque elections of 17 April 2005, EHAK obtained 150,188 votes (12.5%), entering the Basque Parliament with nine seats (all but one being women).\n\nBatasuna stood in a number of elections for the Spanish Parliament. They first stood in 1979 obtaining their best results in the Basque autonomous community where they polled 15% and won 3 seats. In Navarre they polled almost 9% but failed to win a seat.\n\nThey lost a seat in the 1982 election. Their high point came in the 1986 election where they won 5 seats, including one seat in Navarre, the only occasion in which they have won a seat there. They lost their Navarre seat in the 1989 election and lost a further 2 seats in the 1996 election, which overall proved to be the party's worst performance in terms of vote share. At provincial level, their best results came in Guipúzcoa where the party topped the poll in the 1989 general election.\n\nThe party denied any links to ETA. However, proponents of the party's illegalization pointed to a coincidence of Batasuna and ETA's strategies. A significant number of Batasuna leaders have been imprisoned because of their activities in ETA. The party has never condemned any attack by ETA and its leaders have referred sometimes to the ETA members as 'Basque soldiers', and justified their actions: \"ETA does not use the armed struggle as a mean to defend this or that political project but to give<nowiki> [the Basque Country]</nowiki> democratic channels that enable the popular will to be expressed in full freedom.\" It is also common to refer to ETA militants as \"Gudariak\", soldiers in Basque language.\n\nSince the 1980s there had been talk of attempts to ban the party, which resulted in Batasuna frequently changing its name as part of the effort to avoid this, from the original \"Herri Batasuna\", then becoming part of the \"Euskal Herritarrok\" coalition in the 1990s and, finally, Batasuna. Members of the Basque left consider the Spanish government's efforts against Batasuna and its successors to be part of an organized campaign targeting the social support for the independence movement. They point to government crackdowns against the newspaper \"Egin\", the radio station Herri Irratia and the network of pubs that were gathering places for the independentist left.\n\nIn 2002 started the first serious attempt by the Spanish government to ban the party. In June the parliament passed legislation that outlawed parties under certain conditions, on the grounds of their support for terrorism. In July Batasuna was fined € 24 million for vandalism and street violence in 2001. Following an ETA car bomb attack on 4 August the Spanish parliament was recalled. The party was suspended for three years by Judge Baltasar Garzón on 27 August to allow him to investigate the party links to ETA. Garzón and the government presented 23 arguments for the ban, focusing on the party's refusal to condemn ETA attacks, its reference to detainees as political prisoners, collaboration with other banned abertzale forces, and ETA's support in communiqués for Batasuna's political strategy.\n\nIn 2003, Batasuna was declared illegal in Spain by a court ruling of the Spanish Supreme Court, then confirmed by the Constitutional Court of Spain. The decision automatically cut them off from the state funding received by all legal political parties with Parliament representation. In spite of legal text forbidding its reorganization under another name, its members tried to use, ever since the outlawing, a plethora of local lists. Most of these lists were considered to be a front for Batasuna by the Spanish Supreme Court. This decision was confirmed by the Spanish Constitutional Court. The ban prohibits their representatives from contesting elections, holding public demonstrations or rallies and freezes their assets. On the 26th the Spanish parliament voted for an indefinite ban, 295 to 10. The party's main offices in Pamplona were closed by the police and further offices in San Sebastián, Bilbao and Vitoria-Gasteiz were targeted.\n\nStill, party activity did not cease completely, as proved by the fact that on 4 October 2007 twenty-three top members of Batasuna were arrested as they left a secret meeting in Segura (Guipúzcoa), accused of holding an illegal political meeting.\n\nPrior to the outlaw effort, a dissenting minority had left the party to form Aralar. While sharing separatist aims with Batasuna, Aralar rejected political violence and ETA's assassinations and therefore remains a legal party.\n\nIn spite of the prohibition of reorganizing under different names in order to circumvent the legal ruling, Batasuna's ranks have tried a series of attempts to reorganize under new names, which include, among others, Autodeterminaziorako Bilgunea, Aukera Guztiak, Askatasuna or D3M. All have been legally banned for alleged ties to Batasuna and, in turn, to ETA.\n\nIn May 2004, a list named \"Herritarren Zerrenda\" (\"Citizens' List\") was presented in Spain and France to the 2004 European Parliament election. Spanish tribunals rejected it, as a successor of Batasuna. However, the HZ list in France remained legal.\n\nHZ candidates in Spain then campaigned for using the French HZ ballot in Spain, which was to be counted as a null vote.\nThere were more than 98,000 null votes in the Basque Autonomous Country and more than 15,000 in Navarre. HZ leaders interpreted the high rate of null votes, which was 12% of the total, to mean that most of the nulls were for HZ, since in the previous European elections the null vote was less than 1%.\n\nA more successful strategy for Batasuna proved to be the one of co-opting existing marginal parties giving the shortest possible notice before an election, so that there was no time for the Spanish Supreme Court to legally assess the lawfulness of this move before the election was held. Thus, for the regional Basque parliamentary election, 2005 the so-far marginal EHAK party announced that they were ready to bring the programs of Batasuna to the Basque regional parliament.\n(EHAK had been legally registered in 2002 but had no known activity until 2005). The party could participate in those elections, but then was declared illegal by a court ruling because of ties with Batasuna, which prevented it from contesting the Spanish regional elections, 2007.\n\nThen, the same strategy was tried by co-opting Acción Nacionalista Vasca a historical, yet basically inactive Basque party. This time, the Spanish Supreme Court could make a quick assessment of ANV's municipal candidates, which resulted in roughly half of them being banned (because the candidates included people who had previously run for the illegal Herri Batasuna or Batasuna) while the other half was ruled lawful and could participate in the elections to be held shortly after the ruling.\n\nThen, in September 2008 the full legal inquiry on the party was finalized, ruling that ANV as a whole was illegal, due to ties with Batasuna-ETA. The Basque regional government, then led by a Basque nationalist coalition of the PNV and EA objected to these legal rulings.\n\nAs a result of this pressure, for the first time since Herri Batasuna was formed, neither Batasuna nor its proxies could participate in the Basque regional parliament at the time of the Basque parliamentary election, 2009.\n\nIn February 2011, Sortu, a party described as \"the new Batasuna\", was launched. Unlike predecessor parties, Sortu claimed that it explicitly rejected politically motivated violence, including that of ETA; however it did not condemn the record of ETA nor ask for the disbandment of the armed organization. Sortu was banned in March 2011 from registering as a political party by the Supreme Court of Spain.\n\nSome members went on to form another party called Bildu, which was first banned but then allowed to register. Currently, it is Bildu which represents at the Parliament the electoral base of Batasuna.\n\nIn October 2008 demonstrations were held in Bilbao to protest a Supreme Court decision the month before to ban ANV and EHAK, because of their ties to Batasuna. The protesters had a banner that read \"Freedom for Euskal Herria.\" The protests was organised by left-wing Basque nationalists. ANV president, Kepa Bereziartua, and the former spokesman for Batasuna, Arnaldo Otegi, were present in the march.\n\nAt the time of its outlawing in Spain, Batasuna lawyers took the case to the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR). After a long legal inquiry, in July 2009 the ECHR backed the Spanish rulings banning Batasuna and its proxies.\n\nThe ECHR said that disbanding the parties was a response \"to a pressing social need\" given their ties to ETA. \"Given the situation in Spain for several years regarding terrorist attacks, these ties can be considered objectively as a threat to democracy,\" the court said, also adding that these parties \"contradicted the concept of a 'democratic society' and presented a major danger to Spain's democracy\".\n\nSimilarly, when the outlawed Batasuna tried to use Acción Nacionalista Vasca as a proxy to re-organize its ranks, in a different case the ECHR also upheld in 2011 the previous Spanish court rulings which had outlawed ANV, noting that this party had not run by itself in elections since 1977 and that it basically conformed a \"fraud\" to circumvent the outlawing of Batasuna.\n\nBatasuna has a minor presence in the Basque French country, where it runs elections as a civic organization, not like a political party. In France it used to get a few hundred votes\nand did not reach any kind of representation at either local or regional level so far.\n\nIn September 2008, 14 people were detained by the French police, 10 of whom were from the French-wing of the party (including their spokesman Xabi Larralde), and charged with links to ETA. They were released four days later; it remained unclear whether the ongoing investigation would lead to an illegalization process similar to that in Spain.\n\nIn January 2013, Batasuna in France announced its self-dissolution, citing a process of \"political reflection\".\n\n\npp. 71–103\n\n"}
{"id": "12498967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12498967", "title": "Children of Zion", "text": "Children of Zion\n\nThe Children of Zion (\"The Path of Agony of the Tehran Children\") is a book written by Henryk Grynberg about “the fate of the Polish Jews”.\n\nThe \"Children of Zion\", published in January 1998, is considered as a documentary that was based on a collection of fragments of records compiled in the British Mandate of Palestine in 1943 by the Eastern Center for Information, a Polish government group. The book was a source of the testimonies of Jewish children who were evacuated from the Soviet Union to Palestine. Grynberg arranged the “collection of interviews” to serve as a reminder about the Holocaust experience. The Polish children’s experiences during World War II also provided a recollection of their lives before the war. Memories of when the war broke out were also discussed, apart from the “arrival of the Germans and the Russians”, the children’s journeys and life while in exile, and their condition after the so-called Sikorsky Agreement allowed them to leave the work camps. Many of the children had to cope as orphaned émigrés. The original document that had become the basis for Grynberg’s \"Children of Zion\" is at the Hoover Institution of Leland Stanford Junior University.\n\nGrynberg's \"Children of Zion\" contains the original list of the Polish children who arrived in Eretz Israel \"on February 18th, 1943, those who arrived in August 1943, and those who gave the testimonies\". These children escaped from occupied Poland to Russia prior to arriving at Eretz Israel (Land of Israel).\n\nGrynberg's book was originally published in Polish as \"Dzieci Syjonu\" (Warszawa: Karta) in 1994. It was later translated into Hebrew by Zeev Schuss (Yad Vashem, Jerusalem) in 1995. Grynberg’s \"Children of Zion\" was translated into English by Jacqueline Mitchell, a United Nations interpreter, and published by Northwestern University Press in 1998.\n"}
{"id": "44379517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44379517", "title": "Communist League", "text": "Communist League\n\nThe Communist League ( \"Bund der Kommunisten)\" was an international political party established on June 1, 1847 in London, England. The organisation was formed through the merger of the League of the Just, headed by Karl Schapper and the Communist Correspondence Committee of Brussels, Belgium, in which Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels were the dominant personalities. The Communist League is regarded as the first Marxist political party and it was on behalf of this group that Marx and Engels wrote the \"Communist Manifesto\" late in 1847. The Communist League was formally disbanded in 1852, following the Cologne Communist Trial.\n\nDuring the decade of the 1840s the word \"communist\" came into general use to describe those who hailed the left wing of the Jacobin Club of the French Revolution as their ideological forefathers. This political tendency saw itself as egalitarian inheritors of the 1795 Conspiracy of Equals headed by Gracchus Babeuf. The \"sans-culottes\" of Paris which had decades earlier been the base of support for Babeuf — artisans, journeymen, and the urban unemployed — was seen as a potential foundation for a new social system based upon the modern machine production of the day.\n\nThe French thinker Étienne Cabet inspired the imagination with a novel about a utopian society based upon communal machine production, \"Voyage en Icarie\" (1839). The revolutionary Louis Auguste Blanqui argued in favor of an elite organising the overwhelming majority of the population against the \"rich,\" seizing the government in a coup d'état, and instituting a new egalitarian economic order.\n\nOne group of Germans in Paris, headed by Karl Schapper, organised themselves in the form of a secret society known as the League of the Just \"(Bund der Gerechten)\" and participated in a May 1839 rebellion in Paris in an effort to establish a \"Social Republic.\" Following its failure the organisation relocated its centre to London, while also maintaining local organisations in Zürich and Paris.\n\nRevolution was in the air across many of the monarchies of Europe.\n\nThe year 1846 found Karl Marx and his close friend and co-thinker Friedrich Engels in Brussels, establishing a small political circle of radical German émigrés called the Communist Corresponding Committee and writing for the German-language \"Deutsche Brüsseler Zeitung\" (\"Brussels German Newspaper\"). Also important in this early circle was Wilhelm Wolff, a talented and radical writer hailing from the Silesian peasantry who had been forced to emigrate due to his agitation against the Prussian autocracy.\n\nThe Brussels Communist Corresponding Committee had at the same time small counterparts located in London and Paris, composed of a handful of radical German expatriates living there. Relations between these small groups were not close, with petty jealousies and ideological disagreements preventing the participants from functioning as an effective political unit.\n\nBe that as it may, in the latter part of January 1847 the disparate parts of the fledgling German Communist movement began to congeal in a single organisational entity when the London center of the League of the Just first broached the idea of organisational unity with the Communist Corresponding Committee. A letter of 20 January 1847 by Schapper requested that Marx join the League in anticipation of a scheduled London congress at which a new set of principles would be adopted based upon the ideas previously expressed by Marx and Engels. Both Marx and Engels were persuaded by the appeal and they both joined the League of the Just shortly thereafter, followed by other members of the Communist Corresponding Committee.\n\nIn June 1847 the London congress took place and the League of the Just adopted a new charter formally changing the group's name to the Communist League. The Communist League was structured around the formation of primary party units known as \"communes,\" consisting of at least 3 and not more than 10 members. These were in turn to be combined into larger units known as \"circles\" and \"leading circles,\" governed by a central authority selected at regular congresses. The League's programme called for the overthrow of the bourgeoisie and establishment of the rule of the proletariat and the construction of a new society free both of private property and social classes.\n\nThe initial conference was attended by Engels, who convinced the League to change its motto to Karl Marx's phrase, \"Working Men of All Countries, Unite!\". At the same conference, the organisation was renamed the \"Communist League\" and was reorganised significantly.\n\nIn particular, Marx did away with all \"superstitious authoritarianism,\" as he called the rituals pertaining to secret societies. The conference itself was counted as the first congress of the new League.\n\nThe Communist League had a second congress, at Great Windmill Street, London, in November and December 1847. Both Marx and Engels attended, and they were assigned the task of composing a manifesto for the organisation. This became \"The Communist Manifesto\".\n\nThe League was not able to function effectively during the 1848 revolutions, despite temporarily abandoning its clandestine nature. The Workers' Brotherhood was established in Germany by members of the League, and became the most significant revolutionary organisation there. During the revolution Marx edited the radical journal the \"Neue Rheinische Zeitung\". Engels fought in the Baden campaign against the Prussians (June and July 1849) as the aide-de-camp of August Willich.\n\nThe Communist League reassembled in late 1849, and by 1850 they were publishing the \"Neue Rheinische Zeitung Revue\" journal, but by the end of the year, publication had ceased amid disputes between the managers of the group.\n\nIn 1850, the German master spy Wilhelm Stieber broke into Marx's house and stole the register of the League's members, which he sent to France and several German states. This caused the imprisonment of several members.\n\nIn 1852, after the Cologne Communist Trial, the organisation was ended formally.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12083681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12083681", "title": "Company of Saynt George", "text": "Company of Saynt George\n\nThe Company of St. George is a living-history group portraying an artillery Company in the age of Charles the Bold (1467-1477). The group does events with a civil and military aspect and is known for its display of daily life in a medieval camp.\n\nThere is no correct spelling for the name of the company. The group uses multiple styles on its website: \"The Company of Saynte George\", \"The Company of Saynt George\", \"The Companie of Saynt George\" and \"The Compagnie of Saynte George\".All variants seem to be equally correct.\n\nThe Company of St. George was formed during the 1980s around Gerry Embleton and a group of history enthusiasts living in Switzerland. Traditionally the Company has retained a close link to other groups in the United Kingdom. The Company of St. George has been made popular with the book \"The Medieval Soldier\", written by Gerry Embleton and John Howe, featuring over one hundred colour photographs of people in historical costume. It has been translated into French, German and Italian. The book came out in 1994 and had an influence on living-history and reenactment. This is especially true on the European continent where it helped to make living history a popular hobby and the second half of the 15th century one of the most popular periods for re-enactment.\n\nThere are around one hundred people involved with the group and about sixty of them are considered active. The active members live in Switzerland, United Kingdom, France, Italy, Austria, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Czech Republic, Poland, Denmark and Sweden. Tolkien illustrator John Howe and the historical illustrator Gerry Embleton are prominent members.\n\nThe Company of St. George primarily works with museums and does living-history events in close cooperation with them. The ties with the Château du Haut-Kœnigsbourg are particularly strong. There are also private events. \n"}
{"id": "3954443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3954443", "title": "Cotton-spinning machinery", "text": "Cotton-spinning machinery\n\nCotton-spinning machinery refers to machines which process (or spin) prepared cotton roving into workable yarn or thread. Such machinery can be dated back centuries. During the 18th and 19th centuries, as part of the Industrial Revolution cotton-spinning machinery was developed to bring mass production to the cotton industry. Cotton spinning machinery was installed in large factories, commonly known as cotton mills.\n\nUntil the 1740s all spinning was done by hand using a spinning wheel. The state of the art spinning wheel in England was known as the Jersey wheel however an alternative wheel, the Saxony wheel was a double band treadle spinning wheel where the spindle rotated faster than the traveller in a ratio of 8:6, drawing on both was done by the spinners fingers.\n\nIn 1738 Lewis Paul and John Wyatt of Birmingham patented the Roller Spinning machine and the flyer-and-bobbin system, for drawing cotton to a more even thickness, using two sets of rollers that travelled at different speeds. This principle was the basis of Richard Arkwright's later water frame design. By 1742 Paul and Wyatt had opened a mill in Birmingham which used their new rolling machine powered by a donkey, this was not profitable and soon closed. A factory was opened in Northampton in 1743, with fifty spindles turning on five of Paul and Wyatt's machines, proving more successful than their first mill; this operated until 1764.\n\nLewis Paul invented the hand-driven carding machine in 1748. A coat of wire slips were placed around a card, which was then wrapped around a cylinder. Lewis' invention was later developed and improved by Richard Arkwright and Samuel Crompton, although the design came under suspicion after a fire at Daniel Bourn's factory in Leominster which used Paul and Wyatt's spindles. Bourn produced a similar patent in the same year.\n\nRev John Dyer of Northampton recognised the importance of the Paul and Wyatt cotton spinning machine in a poem in 1757:\nA circular machine, of new design<br>\nIn conic shape: it draws and spins a thread<br>\nWithout the tedious toil of needless hands.<br>\nA wheel invisible, beneath the floor,<br>\nTo ev'ry member of th' harmonius frame,<br>\nGives necessary motion. One intent<br>\nO'erlooks the work; the carded wool, he says,<br>\nSo smoothly lapped around those cylinders,<br>\nWhich gently turning, yield it to yon cirue<br>\nOf upright spindles, which with rapid whirl<br>\nSpin out in long extenet an even twine.\nThe spinning jenny is a multi-spool spinning wheel. It was invented circa 1764, its invention attributed to James Hargreaves in Stanhill, near Blackburn, Lancashire.\n\nThe Water frame was developed and patented by Arkwright in the 1770s. The roving was attenuated (stretched) by drafting rollers and twisted by winding it onto a spindle. It was heavy large scale machine that needed to be driven by power, which in the late 18th century meant by a water wheel. Cotton mills were designed for the purpose by Arkwright, Jedediah Strutt and others along the River Derwent in Derbyshire. Water frames could only spin weft.\n\nThe spinning mule or mule jenny was created in 1779 by Samuel Crompton. It was a combination of Arkwright's water frame and Hargreaves' spinning jenny. It was so named because it was a hybrid of these two machines. The mule consisted of a fixed frame containing a creel of bobbins holding the roving, connected through the headstock to a parallel carriage containing the spindles. It used an intermittent process: On the outward traverse, the rovings were paid out, and twisted, and the return traverse, the roving was clamped and the spindles reversed taking up the newly spun thread. The rival machine, the throstle frame or ring frame was a continuous process, where the roving was drawn twisted and wrapped in one action. The spinning mule became self-acting (automatic) in 1830s. The mule was the most common spinning machine from 1790 until about 1900, but was still used for fine yarns until the 1960s. A cotton mill in 1890 would contain over 60 mules, each with 1320 spindles.\n\nBetween the years 1824 and 1830 Richard Roberts invented a mechanism that rendered all parts of the mule self-acting, regulating the rotation of the spindles during the inward run of the carriage.\n\nThe Platt Brothers, based in Oldham, Greater Manchester were amongst the most prominent machine makers in this field of work.\n\nAt first this machine was only used to spin coarse and low-to-medium counts, but it is now employed to spin all counts of yarn.\n\nThe Throstle frame was a descendant of the water frame. It used the same principles, was better engineered and driven by steam. In 1828 the Danforth throstle frame was invented in the United States. The heavy flyer caused the spindle to vibrate, and the yarn snarled every time the frame was stopped. Not a success. It was named throstle, as the noise it made when running was compared to the song of the throstle (thrush).\n\nThe Ring frame is credited to John Thorp in Rhode Island in 1828/9 and developed by Mr. Jencks of Pawtucket, Rhode Island, who () names as the inventor.\nThe bobbins or tubes may be filled from \"cops\", \"ring spools\" or \"hanks\", but a stop motion is required for each thread, which will come into operation immediately a fracture occurs.\n\nFor many purposes, the threads as spun by the ring frame or the mule are ready for the manufacturer; but where extra strength or smoothness is required, as in threads for sewing, crocheting, hosiery, lace and carpets; also where multicoloured effects are needed, as in Grandrelle, or some special form of irregularity, as in corkscrewed, and knopped yarns, two or more single threads are compounded and twisted together. This operation is known as \"doubling\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25099429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25099429", "title": "Counter-Maniera", "text": "Counter-Maniera\n\nCounter-\"Maniera\" or Counter-Mannerism (variously capitalized and part-italicized) is a term in art history for a trend identified by some art historians in 16th-century Italian painting that forms a sub-category or phase of Mannerism, the dominant movement in Italian art between about 1530 and 1590. Counter-\"Maniera\" or Counter-Mannerism reacted against the artificiality of the second generation of Mannerist painters in the second half of the 16th century. It was in part due to artists wishing to follow the vague prescriptions for clarity and simplicity in art issued by the Council of Trent in its final session in 1563, and represented a rejection of the distortions and artificiality of high Mannerist style, and a partial return to the classicism and balance of High Renaissance art, with \"clarity in formal order and legibility in content\". \n\nThe term was devised by the art historian Sydney Joseph Freedberg (1914–1997), and has gained a good degree of acceptance, although it is by no means universally adopted by other art historians. Counter-Maniera was one of the four phases of 16th-century Italian painting defined by Freedberg in his \"Painting in Italy, 1500–1600\", first published in 1971 and long the standard textbook on the period, as: \"First \"Maniera\", High \"Maniera\", Counter-\"Maniera\" and Late \"Maniera\"\". The styles did not neatly succeed each other but existed side by side for much of the time, with High \"Maniera\" remaining the dominant style during the main period of Counter-\"Maniera\" in the third quarter of the 16th century. In many cases Counter-Mannerism was a development of an artist's style in mid or late career, or a style used for some works, especially religious commissions, while other works by the same artist continued to use a high \"maniera\" style. \n\nFreedberg's contemporary Federico Zeri had in 1957 introduced or revived his own term \"arte sacra\" (\"sacred art\") for pre-Baroque Counter-Reformation style in Roman painting, overlapping to a large degree with Freedberg's Counter-Maniera, though rather wider in both the dates and styles included. The use of the term Counter-\"Maniera\" may be in decline, as impatience with such \"style labels\" grows among art historians. In 2000 Marcia B. Hall, a leading art historian of the period and mentee of Freedberg, was criticised by a reviewer of her \"After Raphael: Painting in Central Italy in the Sixteenth Century\" for her \"fundamental flaw\" in continuing to use this and other terms, despite an apologetic \"Note on style labels\" at the beginning of the book and a promise to keep their use to a minimum.\n\nThe definition of Mannerism itself is notoriously complex, and that of Counter-Mannerism, which to a considerable extent is defined negatively or reductively against it, is no less so. Many parts of Italy, led by Venice and other northern centres, were on the periphery of both the High Renaissance and the Mannerist reaction, and reached what might be called a Counter-Mannerist style merely by continuing to develop regional Renaissance styles, and accepting moderate doses of \"maniera\" influence. The term is most often applied to painters in Florence and Rome who reacted against the prevailing style in these centres of full-blooded \"maniera\", without a fundamental rejection of its underlying principles. In proposing the term Freedberg compares it with terms such as \"counterpart\" and \"counterpoint\", explaining that he intends \"implying parallelism and relation between two terms at the same time as their opposition\". \n\nCharacteristics of the \"maniera\" often retained in counter-\"maniera\" works, though in moderation, are an idealized and abstracted treatment of the content, absence of naturalism, an avoidance of the expression of emotion, and many of the formal characteristics noted by Friedländer, such as the arrangement of figures on the same plane at the front of the picture space, which they nearly fill. Elements of the \"maniera\" that are removed include the impulse to push to the extreme, the willingness to sacrifice everything for a graceful effect, playfulness and wit, and the readiness to let the details and ambience of a painting crowd out or submerge the supposed main figures, that must be hunted out by the learned viewer. The style restores a decorum suitable for religious works, and removes distractions from the central religious figures. In its latest phase, from about 1585, the need for popular appeal appears to have been recognized by artists and commissioners in the church, leading to some relaxation of the austerity of earlier periods, and sometimes to sentimentality. \n\nThe term counter-\"maniera\" is not usually applied to the more radical Bolognese reaction of the Carraccis from the 1580s, although this represented a more effective rejection of Mannerist artificiality. For Freedberg this was \"a new and un-Maniera attitude to art\"; elsewhere he cautions against confusing Counter-\"Maniera\" with \"anti-Maniera\", apparently reflecting \"Anti-Mannerism\", the term used by Walter Friedländer for the \"palpable break in the stylistic development of Italian painting\" that occurred \"sometime around 1590\". The use of the term has not been extended to Northern Mannerism.\n\nDeciding what characterizes a work in Counter-Mannerist style may not be straightforward; in the single brief passage mentioning the term in John Shearman's \"Mannerism\" (1967), he picks Santi di Tito's \"Vision of St Thomas Aquinas\" (1593, illustrated here, as in both books) as an example of it, but Freedberg excludes Santo's classicising naturalism from the style, though noting his similarities to it. Shearman's other main example of Counter-Mannerism is Federigo Barocci, who Freedberg also excludes from his definition.\n\nMany painters looked to revive the styles of Raphael, Andrea del Sarto and other High Renaissance masters, or drew inspiration from the Venetian masters of the High Renaissance. The example of Michelangelo's late work was important for many artists. The Florentine biographer and critic Raffaello Borghini, author of \"Il Riposo della Pitura e della Scultura\" published in 1584, has been proposed as a theorist, rather late into the course of the trend, but his work is little known. The artists of Counter-Mannerism remain relatively unknown, and often hard to see outside Italy, as much of their work was religious and remains in the churches for which it was commissioned, or Italian museums. It was mostly ignored in the hunt by picture dealers in the 18th and 19th centuries. Freedberg says frankly: \"Boredom is a requisite of the Roman Counter-Maniera style, invading even the art of the few painters whose inspiration may be too considerable and too authentic to be sealed off wholly\".\n\nFreedberg cautions against treating the style as simply a reflection of the decrees of Trent, which were a last minute and little-discussed addition, based on a French draft, to the final session in 1563, well after the style had begun to show itself. He describes the decrees as \"a codifying and official sanction of a temper that had come to be conspicuous in Roman culture\".\n\nIt should also be noted that Freedberg, like the majority of art historians dealing with the period—even today—tended to view mid-to-late sixteenth-century and early seventeenth-century Italian art history through the singular pro-Roman Bolognese lens of Gian Pietro Bellori's \"Lives of the Modern Painters, Sculptors and Architects\" - meaning Freedburg may have had little time for any alternative historical narrative that did not support a \"pro-Bolognese\" artistic account of Counter-\"Maniera\" reform.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "354009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=354009", "title": "Crystal skull", "text": "Crystal skull\n\nThe crystal skulls are human skull hardstone carvings made of clear or milky white quartz (also called \"rock crystal\"), claimed to be pre-Columbian Mesoamerican artifacts by their alleged finders; however, these claims have been refuted for all of the specimens made available for scientific studies.\n\nThe results of these studies demonstrated that those examined were manufactured in the mid-19th century or later, almost certainly in Europe during a time when interest in ancient culture was abundant. The skulls were crafted in the 19th century in Germany, quite likely at workshops in the town of Idar-Oberstein, which was renowned for crafting objects made from imported Brazilian quartz in the late 19th century. Despite some claims presented in an assortment of popularizing literature, legends of crystal skulls with mystical powers do not figure in genuine Mesoamerican or other Native American mythologies and spiritual accounts.\n\nThe skulls are often claimed to exhibit paranormal phenomena by some members of the New Age movement, and have often been portrayed as such in fiction. Crystal skulls have been a popular subject appearing in numerous sci-fi television series, novels, films, and video games.\n\nTrade in fake pre-Columbian artifacts developed during the late 19th century to the extent that in 1886, Smithsonian archaeologist William Henry Holmes wrote an article called \"The Trade in Spurious Mexican Antiquities\" for \"Science\". Although museums had acquired skulls earlier, it was Eugène Boban, an antiquities dealer who opened his shop in Paris in 1870, who is most associated with 19th-century museum collections of crystal skulls. Most of Boban's collection, including three crystal skulls, was sold to the ethnographer Alphonse Pinart, who donated the collection to the Trocadéro Museum, which later became the Musée de l'Homme.\n\nMany crystal skulls are claimed to be pre-Columbian, usually attributed to the Aztec or Maya civilizations. Mesoamerican art has numerous representations of skulls, but none of the skulls in museum collections come from documented excavations. Research carried out on several crystal skulls at the British Museum in 1967, 1996 and 2004 shows that the indented lines marking the teeth (for these skulls had no separate jawbone, unlike the Mitchell-Hedges skull) were carved using jeweler's equipment (rotary tools) developed in the 19th century, making a supposed pre-Columbian origin problematic.\n\nThe type of crystal was determined by examination of chlorite inclusions. It is only found in Madagascar and Brazil, and thus unobtainable or unknown within pre-Columbian Mesoamerica. The study concluded that the skulls were crafted in the 19th century in Germany, quite likely at workshops in the town of Idar-Oberstein, which was renowned for crafting objects made from imported Brazilian quartz in the late 19th century.\n\nIt has been established that the crystal skulls in the British Museum and Paris's Musée de l'Homme were originally sold by the French antiquities dealer Eugène Boban, who was operating in Mexico City between 1860 and 1880. The British Museum crystal skull transited through New York's Tiffany & Co., while the Musée de l'Homme's crystal skull was donated by Alphonse Pinart, an ethnographer who had bought it from Boban.\n\nIn 1992, the Smithsonian Institution investigated a crystal skull provided by an anonymous source; the source claimed to have purchased it in Mexico City in 1960, and that it was of Aztec origin. The investigation concluded that this skull also was made recently. According to the Smithsonian, Boban acquired his crystal skulls from sources in Germany, aligning with conclusions made by the British Museum.\n\nThe \"Journal of Archaeological Science\" published a detailed study by the British Museum and the Smithsonian in May 2008. Using electron microscopy and X-ray crystallography, a team of British and American researchers found that the British Museum skull was worked with a harsh abrasive substance such as corundum or diamond, and shaped using a rotary disc tool made from some suitable metal. The Smithsonian specimen had been worked with a different abrasive, namely the silicon-carbon compound carborundum (Silicon carbide) which is a synthetic substance manufactured using modern industrial techniques. Since the synthesis of carborundum dates only to the 1890s and its wider availability to the 20th century, the researchers concluded \"[t]he suggestion is that it was made in the 1950s or later\".\n\nNone of the skulls in museums come from documented excavations. A parallel example is provided by obsidian mirrors, ritual objects widely depicted in Aztec art. Although a few surviving obsidian mirrors come from archaeological excavations, none of the Aztec-style obsidian mirrors are so documented. Yet most authorities on Aztec material culture consider the Aztec-style obsidian mirrors as authentic pre-Columbian objects. Archaeologist Michael E. Smith reports a non peer-reviewed find of a small crystal skull at an Aztec site in the Valley of Mexico. Crystal skulls have been described as \"A fascinating example of artifacts that have made their way into museums with no scientific evidence to prove their rumored pre-Columbian origins.\"\n\nA similar case is the \"Olmec-style\" face mask in jade; hardstone carvings of a face in a mask form. Curators and scholars refer to these as \"Olmec-style\", as to date no example has been recovered in an archaeologically controlled Olmec context, although they appear Olmec in style. However they have been recovered from sites of other cultures, including one deliberately deposited in the ceremonial precinct of Tenochtitlan (Mexico City), which would presumably have been about 2,000 years old when the Aztecs buried it, suggesting these were as valued and collected as Roman antiquities were in Europe.\n\nPerhaps the most famous and enigmatic skull was allegedly discovered in 1924 by Anna Mitchell-Hedges, adopted daughter of British adventurer and popular author F.A. Mitchell-Hedges. It is the subject of a video documentary made in 1990, \"Crystal Skull of Lubaantun\". It was examined and described by Smithsonian researchers as \"very nearly a replica of the British Museum skull—almost exactly the same shape, but with more detailed modeling of the eyes and the teeth.\"\nMitchell-Hedges claimed that she found the skull buried under a collapsed altar inside a temple in Lubaantun, in British Honduras, now Belize. As far as can be ascertained, F.A. Mitchell-Hedges himself made no mention of the alleged discovery in any of his writings on Lubaantun. Others present at the time of the excavation recorded neither the skull's discovery nor Anna's presence at the dig. Recent evidence has come to light showing that F.A. Mitchell-Hedges purchased the skull at a Sotheby's auction in London on October 15, 1943, from London art dealer Sydney Burney. In December 1943, F.A. Michell-Hedges disclosed his purchase of the skull in a letter to his brother, stating plainly that he acquired it from Burney.\n\nThe skull is made from a block of clear quartz about the size of a small human cranium, measuring some high, long and wide. The lower jaw is detached. In the early 1970s it came under the temporary care of freelance art restorer Frank Dorland, who claimed upon inspecting it that it had been \"carved\" with total disregard to the natural crystal axis, and without the use of metal tools. Dorland reported being unable to find any tell-tale scratch marks, except for traces of mechanical grinding on the teeth, and he speculated that it was first chiseled into rough form, probably using diamonds, and the finer shaping, grinding and polishing was achieved through the use of sand over a period of 150 to 300 years. He said it could be up to 12,000 years old. Although various claims have been made over the years regarding the skull's physical properties, such as an allegedly constant temperature of 70 °F (21 °C), Dorland reported that there was no difference in properties between it and other natural quartz crystals.\n\nWhile in Dorland's care the skull came to the attention of writer Richard Garvin, at the time working at an advertising agency where he supervised Hewlett-Packard's advertising account. Garvin made arrangements for the skull to be examined at Hewlett-Packard's crystal laboratories in Santa Clara, California, where it was subjected to several tests. The labs determined only that it was not a composite as Dorland had supposed, but that it was fashioned from a single crystal of quartz. The laboratory test also established that the lower jaw had been fashioned from the same left-handed growing crystal as the rest of the skull. No investigation was made by Hewlett-Packard as to its method of manufacture or dating.\n\nAs well as the traces of mechanical grinding on the teeth noted by Dorland, Mayanist archaeologist Norman Hammond reported that the holes (presumed to be intended for support pegs) showed signs of being made by drilling with metal. Anna Mitchell-Hedges refused subsequent requests to submit the skull for further scientific testing.\n\nThe earliest published reference to the skull is the July 1936 issue of the British anthropological journal \"Man\", where it is described as being in the possession of Sydney Burney, a London art dealer who is said to have owned it since 1933. No mention was made of Mitchell-Hedges. \n\nF. A. Mitchell-Hedges mentioned the skull only briefly in the first edition of his autobiography, \"Danger My Ally\" (1954), without specifying where or by whom it was found. He merely claimed that \"it is at least 3,600 years old and according to legend it was used by the High Priest of the Maya when he was performing esoteric rites. It is said that when he willed death with the help of the skull, death invariably followed\". All subsequent editions of \"Danger My Ally\" omitted mention of the skull entirely.\nIn a 1970 letter Anna also stated that she was \"told by the few remaining Maya that the skull was used by the high priest to will death.\" For this reason, the artifact is sometimes referred to as \"The Skull of Doom\". Anna Mitchell-Hedges toured with the skull from 1967 exhibiting it on a pay-per-view basis. Somewhere between 1988 and 1990 she toured with the skull. She continued to grant interviews about the artifact until her death.\n\nIn her last eight years, Anna Mitchell-Hedges lived in Chesterton, Indiana, with Bill Homann, whom she married in 2002. She died on April 11, 2007. Since that time the Mitchell-Hedges Skull has been owned by Homann. He continues to believe in its mystical properties.\n\nIn November 2007, Homann took the skull to the office of anthropologist Jane MacLaren Walsh, in the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History for examination. Walsh carried out a detailed examination of the skull using ultraviolet light, a high-powered light microscope, and computerized tomography. Homann took the skull to the museum again in 2008 so it could be filmed for a Smithsonian Networks documentary, \"Legend of the Crystal Skull\" and on this occasion Walsh was able to take two sets of silicone molds of surface tool marks for scanning electron microscope (SEM) analysis. The SEM micrographs revealed evidence that the crystal had been worked with a high speed, hard metal rotary tool coated with a hard abrasive such as diamond. Walsh's extensive research on artifacts from Mexico and Central America showed that pre-contact artisans carved stone by abrading the surface with stone or wooden tools and in later pre-Columbian times, copper tools, in combination with a variety of abrasive sands or pulverized stone. These examinations led Walsh to the conclusion that the skull was probably carved in the 1930s, and was most likely based on the British Museum skull which had been exhibited fairly continuously from 1898.\n\nIn the National Geographic Channel documentary \"The Truth Behind the Crystal Skulls\", forensic artist Gloria Nusse performed a forensic facial reconstruction over a replica of the skull. According to Nusse, the resulting face had female and European characteristics. As it was hypothesized that the Crystal Skull was a replica of an actual human skull, the conclusion was that it could not have been created by ancient Americans.\n\nThe crystal skull of the British Museum first appeared in 1881, in the shop of the Paris antiquarian, Eugène Boban. Its origin was not stated in his catalogue of the time. He is said to have tried to sell it to Mexico's national museum as an Aztec artifact, but was unsuccessful. Boban later moved his business to New York City, where the skull was sold to George H. Sisson. It was exhibited at the meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in New York City in 1887 by George F. Kunz. It was sold at auction, and bought by Tiffany and Co., who later sold it at cost to the British Museum in 1897.\nThis skull is very similar to the Mitchell-Hedges skull, although it is less detailed and does not have a movable lower jaw.\n\nThe British Museum catalogues the skull's provenance as \"probably European, 19th century AD\" and describes it as \"not an authentic pre-Columbian artefact\".\nIt has been established that this skull was made with modern tools, and that it is not authentic.\n\nThe largest of the three skulls sold by Eugène Boban to Alphonse Pinart (sometimes called the Paris Skull), about high, has a hole drilled vertically through its center. It is part of a collection held at the Musée du Quai Branly, and was subjected to scientific tests carried out in 2007–08 by France's national Centre de recherche et de restauration des musées de France (\"Centre for Research and Restoration of the Museums in France\", or C2RMF). After a series of analyses carried out over three months, C2RMF engineers concluded that it was \"certainly not pre-Columbian, it shows traces of polishing and abrasion by modern tools.\" Particle accelerator tests also revealed occluded traces of water that were dated to the 19th century, and the Quai Branly released a statement that the tests \"seem to indicate that it was made late in the 19th century.\"\n\nIn 2009 the C2RMF researchers published results of further investigations to establish when the Paris skull had been carved. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) analysis indicated the use of lapidary machine tools in its carving. The results of a new dating technique known as quartz hydration dating (QHD) demonstrated that the Paris skull had been carved later than a reference quartz specimen artifact, known to have been cut in 1740. The researchers conclude that the SEM and QHD results combined with the skull's known provenance indicate it was carved in the 18th or 19th century.\n\nThe \"Smithsonian Skull\", Catalogue No. A562841-0 in the collections of the Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, was mailed to the Smithsonian Institution anonymously in 1992, and was claimed to be an Aztec object by its donor and was purportedly from the collection of Porfirio Diaz. It is the largest of the skulls, weighing and is high. It was carved using carborundum, a modern abrasive. It has been displayed as a modern fake at the National Museum of Natural History.\n\nSome individuals believe in the paranormal claim that crystal skulls can produce a variety of miracles. Anna Mitchell-Hedges claimed that the skull she allegedly discovered could cause visions, cure cancer, that she once used its magical properties to kill a man, and that in another instance, she saw in it a premonition of the John F. Kennedy assassination.\n\nIn the 1931 play \"The Satin Slipper\" by Paul Claudel, King Philip II of Spain uses \"a death's head made from a single piece of rock crystal,\" lit by \"a ray of the setting sun,\" to see the defeat of his Armada in its attack on England (day 4, scene 4, pp. 243–44).\n\nClaims of the healing and supernatural powers of crystal skulls have had no support in the scientific community, which has found no evidence of any unusual phenomena associated with the skulls nor any reason for further investigation, other than the confirmation of their provenance and method of manufacture. In one case, that of the skull written about in Richard T. Cole's book, \"Crystal Clear,\" the skull was not crystal at all, but clear acrylic plastic.\n\nAnother novel and historically unfounded speculation ties in the legend of the crystal skulls with the completion of the current Maya calendar \"b'ak'tun\"-cycle on December 21, 2012, claiming the re-uniting of the thirteen mystical skulls will forestall a catastrophe allegedly predicted or implied by the ending of this calendar (see 2012 phenomenon). An airing of this claim appeared (among an assortment of others made) in \"The Mystery of the Crystal Skulls\", a 2008 program produced for the Sci Fi Channel in May and shown on Discovery Channel Canada in June. Interviewees included Richard Hoagland, who attempted to link the skulls and the Maya to life on Mars, and David Hatcher Childress, proponent of lost Atlantean civilizations and anti-gravity claims.\n\nCrystal skulls are also referred to by author Drunvalo Melchizedek in his book \"Serpent of Light\". He writes that he came across indigenous Mayan descendants in possession of crystal skulls at ceremonies at temples in the Yucatán, which he writes contained souls of ancient Mayans who had entered the skulls to await the time when their ancient knowledge would once again be required.\n\nThe alleged associations and origins of crystal skull mythology in Native American spiritual lore, as advanced by neoshamanic writers such as Jamie Sams, are similarly discounted. Instead, as Philip Jenkins notes, crystal skull mythology may be traced back to the \"baroque legends\" initially spread by F.A. Mitchell-Hedges, and then afterwards taken up:\n\nBy the 1970s, the crystal skulls [had] entered New Age mythology as potent relics of ancient Atlantis, and they even acquired a canonical number: there were exactly thirteen skulls.None of this would have anything to do with North American Indian matters, if the skulls had not attracted the attention of some of the most active New Age writers.\n\n"}
{"id": "3127008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3127008", "title": "Dmytro Doroshenko", "text": "Dmytro Doroshenko\n\nDmytro Doroshenko (, \"Dmytro Ivanovych Doroshenko\", ; 8 April 1882 – 19 March 1951) was a prominent Ukrainian political figure during the revolution of 1917–1918 and a leading Ukrainian emigre historian during the inter-war period. Doroshenko was a supporter of federal ties with the Russian Republic and a member of the Ukrainian Party of Socialist Federalists.\n\nDoroshenko was born into an old Ukrainian Cossack noble family which had given Ukraine two prominent Hetmans during the seventeenth century. He studied history at the universities of Warsaw, Saint Petersburg, and Kiev and was active in the Ukrainian national movement during the early years of the twentieth century; he contributed articles on history and literature to Ukrainian periodicals and edited the political journal \"Ukrainskii vestnik\" (The Ukrainian Herald) which reflected the views of the Ukrainian Club in the Russian State Duma (1906). Thereafter, he became active in the Ukrainian Scientific Society in Kiev and the Prosvita educational society in Yekaterinoslav. During the war which broke out in 1914 he was active in the Union of Cities and did relief work in Russian held Galicia and Bukovina.\n\nDuring the revolution of 1917–1918, Doroshenko held several responsible positions under the radical and socialist Ukrainian Central Rada, which quickly emerged as a kind of Ukrainian national parliament, and he helped to build the autonomous Ukrainian People's Republic. However, distressed by the continuous shift to the left of the Central Rada, Doroshenko supported the conservative coup staged by General Pavlo Skoropadsky and his German military supporters and was named Foreign Minister in the new Hetmanate, or monarchy, that was then established. He was a firm supporter of the Ukrainian national element in this regime to which many \"White\" Russian elements were attracted, but he also had the difficult task of reconciling various pro-Russian, pro-German, and pro-Ukrainian influences on the foreign policy of the Hetmanate. The task proved impossible and Doroshenko eventually resigned shortly before the collapse of this conservative regime.\n\nIn 1919, Doroshenko went into exile and eventually settled in Prague where the Czechoslovak government gave refuge to Ukrainian and Russian emigres, especially scholars. During the inter-war period, Doroshenko was in turn a professor of history at the Ukrainian Free University in Prague, Director of the Ukrainian Scientific Institute in Berlin, and Professor of Church History at the University of Warsaw. In 1937 and 1938, he made two highly successful lecture tours of Canada which at that time possessed a large Ukrainian immigrant population. In 1939, he returned to Prague where he continued his historical work at the Ukrainian Free University.\n\nIn 1945, Doroshenko fled to western Germany where he became the first president of the Ukrainian Free Academy of Sciences. In 1947, he moved to Canada where he taught history and literature at Saint Andrew's College in Winnipeg and together with the literary historian, Leonid Biletsky, and the philologist, Jaroslav Rudnyckyj, established a branch of the Ukrainian Free Academy of Sciences. However, he fell ill in Winnipeg and in 1950 returned to Europe. He died in Munich in early 1951.\n\nAs a historian, Doroshenko represented the conservative \"Derzhavnyk\" or \"statist\" trend in Ukrainian historiography. On the one hand, he accepted the historical scheme of the famous Ukrainian historian, Mykhailo Hrushevsky, which saw continuity in the history of his country from Kievan Rus' to modern times and claimed the heritage of Kievan Rus' primarily for modern Ukraine, but on the other hand, he rejected Hrushevsky's stress upon the role of the common people, instead stressing the role of the educated political elite. Doroshenko was especially fond of the old Cossack officer class which evolved into the later Ukrainian gentry and he gave much space in his histories to the strivings of this elite for political autonomy and independence.\n\nDoroshenko authored a two volume \"Survey of Ukrainian History\", a \"Survey of Ukrainian Historiography\", biographies of several major figures of the Ukrainian national awakening of the nineteenth century, a book on German depictions of Ukraine throughout the centuries, works on the revolutionary period and the Hetman state of 1918, a major work on his relative, the seventeenth century Cossack Hetman, Petro Doroshenko, booklets on church history, and two volumes of memoirs which treated the period from 1900 to 1919. His personal bibliography lists almost 1000 titles.\n\n"}
{"id": "159184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159184", "title": "Edgar Cayce", "text": "Edgar Cayce\n\nEdgar Cayce (; March 18, 1877 – January 3, 1945) was an American clairvoyant who answered questions on subjects as varied as healing, reincarnation, wars, Atlantis, and future events while claiming to be in a trance. A biographer gave him the nickname, The Sleeping Prophet. A nonprofit organization, the Association for Research and Enlightenment,<ref name='ARE About/Mission'></ref> was founded to facilitate the study of Cayce's work.\n\nSome consider him the true founder and a principal source of the most characteristic beliefs of the New Age movement.\n\nCayce is also notable for his contributions to the notions of diet and health, particularly the issues of food combining, acid/alkaline diet, and the therapeutic use of food.\n\nEdgar Cayce was born on March 18, 1877, near Beverly, south of Hopkinsville, Kentucky. He was one of six children of farmers Carrie Elizabeth (née Major) and Leslie Burr Cayce. As a child, he played with the 'little folk' and was alleged to have seen his deceased grandfather. He regarded them all as incorporeal because he could see through them if he looked hard enough. However, he found it very difficult to keep his mind on his lessons at school.\n\nHe was taken to church when he was 10, and from then he read the Bible, becoming engrossed, and completing a dozen readings by the time he was 12. In May 1889, while reading the Bible in his hut in the woods, he 'saw' a woman with wings who told him that his prayers were answered, and asked him what he wanted most of all. He was frightened, but he said that most of all he wanted to help others, especially sick children. He decided he would like to be a missionary.\n\nThe next night, after a complaint from the school teacher, his father ruthlessly tested him for spelling, eventually knocking him out of his chair with exasperation. At that point, Cayce 'heard' the voice of the lady who had appeared the day before. She told him that if he could sleep a little 'they' could help him. He begged for a rest and put his head on the spelling book. When his father came back into the room and woke him up, he knew all the answers. In fact, he could repeat anything in the book. His father thought he had been fooling before and knocked him out of the chair again. Eventually, Cayce used all his school books that way.\n\nBy 1892, the teacher regarded Cayce as his best student. On being questioned, Cayce told the teacher that he saw pictures of the pages in the books. His father became proud of this accomplishment and spread it around, resulting in Cayce becoming \"different\" from his peers.\n\nShortly after this, Cayce exhibited an ability to diagnose in his sleep. He was struck on the base of the spine by a ball in a school game, after which he began to act very strangely, and eventually was put to bed. He went to sleep and diagnosed the cure, which his family prepared and which cured him as he slept. His father boasted that his son was, \"the greatest fellow in the world when he's asleep.\" However, this ability was not demonstrated again for several years.\n\nCayce's uncommon personality is also shown in an unusual incident in which he rode a certain mule back to the farmhouse at the end of a work day. This stunned everyone there, as the mule could not be ridden. The owner, thinking it may be time to break the animal in again, attempted to mount it but was immediately thrown off. Cayce left for his family in the city that evening.\n\nIn December 1893, the Cayce family moved to Hopkinsville, Kentucky, and occupied 705 West Seventh on the southeast corner of Seventh and Young Streets. During this time, Cayce received an eighth-grade education, is said by the Association for Research and Enlightenment to have developed psychic abilities, and left the family farm to pursue various forms of employment.\n\nCayce's education stopped in the ninth grade because his family could not afford the costs involved. A ninth-grade education was often considered more than sufficient for working-class children. Much of the remainder of Cayce's younger years would be characterized by a search for both employment and money. On March 14, 1897, Cayce became engaged to Gertrude Evans.\n\nThroughout his life, Cayce was drawn to church as a member of the Disciples of Christ. He read the Bible once a year every year, taught at Sunday school, and recruited missionaries. He said he could see auras around people, spoke to angels, and heard voices of departed relatives. In his early years, he agonized over whether these psychic abilities were spiritually delivered from the highest source.\n\nIn 1900, Cayce formed a business partnership with his father to sell Woodmen of the World Insurance; however, in March he was struck by severe laryngitis that resulted in a complete loss of speech. Unable to work, he lived at home with his parents for almost a year. He then decided to take up the trade of photography, an occupation that would exert less strain on his voice. He began an apprenticeship at the photography studio of W. R. Bowles in Hopkinsville, and eventually became quite talented in his trade.\n\nIn 1901, a traveling stage hypnotist and entertainer named Hart, who referred to himself as \"The Laugh Man\", was performing at the Hopkinsville Opera House. Hart heard about Cayce's condition and offered to attempt a cure. Cayce accepted his offer, and the experiment was conducted in the office of Manning Brown, the local throat specialist. Cayce's voice allegedly returned while in a hypnotic trance but disappeared on awakening. Hart tried a posthypnotic suggestion that the voice would continue to function after the trance, but this proved unsuccessful.\n\nSince Hart had appointments at other cities, he could not continue his hypnotic treatments of Cayce, but admitted he had failed because Cayce would not go into the third stage of hypnosis to take a suggestion. A New York hypnotist, Dr Quackenboss, found the same impediment but, after returning to New York, suggested that Cayce should be prompted to take over his own case while in the second stage of hypnosis. The only local hypnotist, Al Layne, offered to help Cayce restore his voice. Layne suggested that Cayce describe the nature of his condition and cure while in a hypnotic trance. Cayce described his own ailment from a first-person plural point of view: \"we\" instead of the singular \"I\". In subsequent sessions, when Cayce wanted to indicate that the connection was made to the \"entity\" of the person that was requesting the reading, he would generally start off with, \"We have the body.\" According to the reading for the \"entity\" of Cayce, his voice loss was due to psychological paralysis, and could be corrected by increasing the blood flow to the voice box. Layne suggested that the blood flow be increased and Cayce's face supposedly became flushed with blood, and both his chest and throat turned bright red. After 20 minutes, Cayce, still in a trance, declared the treatment over. On awakening, his voice was alleged to have remained normal. Apparently, relapses occurred, but were said to have been corrected by Layne in the same way, and eventually the cure was said to be permanent.\n\nLayne had read of similar hypnotic cures by the Marquis de Puységur, a follower of Franz Mesmer, and was keen to explore the limits of the healing knowledge involved with the trance voice. He asked Cayce to describe Layne's own ailments and suggest cures, and reportedly found the results both accurate and effective. Layne regarded the ability as clairvoyance. Layne suggested that Cayce offer his trance healing to the public. Cayce was reluctant as he had no idea what he was prescribing while asleep, and whether the remedies were safe. He also told Layne he himself did not want to know anything about the patient as it was not relevant. He finally agreed, on the condition that readings would be free. He began, with Layne's help, to offer free treatments to the townspeople. Layne described Cayce's method as, \"...a self-imposed hypnotic trance which induces clairvoyance.\" Reports of Cayce's work appeared in the newspapers, which inspired many postal inquiries. Cayce stated he could work just as effectively using a letter from the individual as with the person being present in the room. Given only the person's name and location, Cayce said he could diagnose the physical and mental conditions of what he termed \"the entity,\" and then provide a remedy. Cayce was still reticent and worried, as \"one dead patient was all he needed to become a murderer\". His fiancée, Gertrude Evans, agreed with him. Few people knew what he was up to. There was a common belief at the time that subjects of hypnosis eventually went insane, or at least that their health suffered. Cayce soon became famous, and people from around the world sought his advice through correspondence.\n\nIn May 1902 he got a bookshop job in the town of Bowling Green where he boarded with some young professionals, two of whom were doctors. He lost his voice while there and Layne came to help effect the normal cure, finally visiting every week. Cayce, still worried, kept the meetings secret, and continued to refuse money for his readings. He invented a card game called \"Pit\" or \"Board of Trade\", simulating wheat market trading, that became popular, but when he sent the idea to a game company they copyrighted it and he got no returns. He still refused to give readings for money.\n\nCayce and Gertrude Evans married on June 17, 1903, and she moved to Bowling Green with him. They had three children: Hugh Lynn Cayce (March 16, 1907 – July 4, 1982), Milton Porter Cayce (March 28, 1911 – May 17, 1911), and Edgar Evans Cayce (February 9, 1918 – February 15, 2013). She still disapproved of the readings, and Cayce still agonized over the morality of them. A few days later Layne revealed the activity to the professionals at the boarding house, one of whom was a magistrate and journalist, after which state medical authorities forced Layne to close his practice. He left to acquire osteopathic qualifications in Franklin. Cayce and Gertrude accepted the resulting publicity as best they could, greatly aided by the diplomacy of the young doctors.\n\nCayce and a relative opened a photographic studio in Bowling Green, while the doctors formed a committee with some colleagues to investigate the phenomenon, with Cayce’s co-operation. All the experiments confirmed the accuracy of the readings. However, Cayce refused a lucrative offer to go into business. After a violent examination by doctors while in a trance, Cayce refused any more investigations, declaring that he would only do readings for those who needed help and believed in the readings.\n\nIn 1906 and 1907 fires burned down his two photographic studios, leading to bankruptcy. Between the two fires, his first son was born on March 16, 1907. He became debt free by 1909, although completely broke, and ready to start again. In 1907, outstanding diagnostic successes in the family helped his confidence. He again refused an offer to go into business, this time with homeopath Wesley H. Ketchum from Hopkinsville, who was introduced by his father. He found a job at the H. P. Tresslar photography firm.\n\nHowever, Ketchum was persistent, spread information in various medical circles, and in October 1910 got written up in the press. When a reporter contacted Cayce, he explained to the reporter that he somehow had the ability to easily go into the intuitive sleep when he wanted to, and this was different from how he went to sleep normally like everyone else. When asked the mechanism of the readings via the sleep method, they were told that it happened via the capabilities of the subconscious mind.\n\nKetchum again urged Cayce to join a business company. After soul searching the whole night, Cayce finally accepted the offer under certain conditions, including that he did not take money for the readings. Instead the company was to furnish him with a photographic studio for his livelihood, and build a separate office for the readings. The contract was modified to give 50% of the earnings to Cayce and his father. Cayce read the back readings, but they contained so many technical terms that he gained no more understanding of what he was doing. He preferred to put the readings on a more scientific basis, but only the doctors in Hopkinsville would cooperate, whereas most of the patients were not in that locality. Also, doctors from all specialties were needed as the treatments prescribed varied widely.\n\nEdgar Cayce, and especially Gertrude, still did not give therapeutic priority to the readings and supposedly lost their second child due to this reticence. When Gertrude became fatally ill with tuberculosis, they used the readings after the doctor had given up. Miraculously, the treatment cured her. Shortly after this, in 1912, Cayce, whose everyday conscious mind was not aware during the readings, discovered that Ketchum had not been honest about them, and had also used them to gamble for finance. He argued in defense that the medical profession were not backing them. Cayce quit the company immediately and went back to the Tresslar photography firm in Selma, Alabama.\n\nCayce's work grew in volume as his fame grew. He asked for voluntary donations to support himself and his family so that he could practice full-time. To help raise money he invented \"Pit\", a card game based on the commodities trading at the Chicago Board of Trade, and the game is still sold today. He continued to work in an apparent trance state with a hypnotist all his life. His wife and eldest son later replaced Layne in this role. A secretary, Gladys Davis, recorded his readings in shorthand.\n\nThe growing fame of Cayce along with the popularity he received from newspapers attracted several eager commercially minded men who wanted to seek a fortune by using his clairvoyant abilities. Even though Cayce was reluctant to help them, he was persuaded to give his readings, which left him dissatisfied with himself and unsuccessful. A cotton merchant offered him a hundred dollars a day for his readings about the daily outcomes in the cotton market; however, despite his poor finances, Cayce refused the merchant's offer. Some wanted to know where to hunt for treasures while others wanted to know the outcome of horse races. Several times he was persuaded to give such readings as an experiment. However, when he used his ability for such purposes, he did no better than chance alone would dictate. These experiments allegedly left him depleted of energy, distraught, and unsatisfied with himself. Finally, he decided to use his gift only to help the distressed and sick.\n\nIn 1923, Arthur Lammers, a wealthy printer and student of metaphysics, persuaded Cayce to give readings on philosophical subjects. Cayce was told by Lammers that, while in his trance state, he spoke of Lammers' past lives and of reincarnation, something Lammers believed in. Reincarnation was a popular subject of the day but is not an accepted part of Christian doctrine. Because of this, Cayce questioned his stenographer about what he said in his trance state and remained unconvinced. He challenged Lammers' charge that he had validated astrology and reincarnation in the following dialogue:\n\nCayce's stenographer recorded the following:\n\nCayce was quite unconvinced that he had been referring to the doctrine of reincarnation, and the best Lammers could offer was that the reading \"opens up the door\" and to go on to share his beliefs and knowledge with Cayce. Lammers had come to him with quite a bit of information of his own to share with Cayce and seemed intent upon convincing Cayce now that he felt the reading had confirmed his strongly-held beliefs. It should be noted, however, that 12 years earlier Cayce had briefly alluded to reincarnation. In reading 4841-1, given April 22, 1911, Cayce referred to the soul being \"transmigrated.\" Because Cayce's readings were not systematically recorded until 1923, it is possible that he may have mentioned reincarnation in other earlier readings.\n\nLammers asked Cayce to come to Dayton to pursue metaphysical truth via the readings. Cayce eventually agreed and went to Dayton. Gertrude Cayce was dubious but interested. There, Cayce produced much metaphysical information, which Cayce tried to reconcile with Christianity. Lammers declared that the fifth chapter of Matthew was the constitution of Christianity and the Sermon on the Mount was its Declaration of Independence. It appeared that Cayce's subconscious mind was as much at home with the language of metaphysics as it was with the language of anatomy and medicine.\n\nCayce reported that his conscience bothered him severely over this conflict. His readings of reincarnations were going against his biblical teachings and at one point he wanted to cease his channeling sessions. Once again Cayce lost his voice and in a reading for himself he was informed if he was no longer going to be a channel, his mission in this life was complete. Ultimately his trance voice, the \"we\" of the readings, dialogued with Cayce and finally persuaded him to continue with these kinds of readings.\n\nLammers wanted to ask the readings the purpose of Cayce's clairvoyance, and to put up money for an organisation supporting Cayce's healing methods. Cayce decided to accept the work and asked his family to join him in Dayton as soon as they could. But by the time the Cayces had arrived there, near the end of 1923, Lammers found himself in financial difficulties and could be of no use. Cayce used his knowledge of the Bible to convince his family that it agreed with reincarnation and other metaphysical teachings.\n\nIt was at this time Cayce directed his activities to provide readings centred around health. The remedies that were channeled often involved the use of unusual electrotherapy, ultraviolet light, diet, massage, gemstones, less mental work and more relaxation in sand on the beach. His remedies were coming under the scrutiny of the American Medical Association and Cayce felt that it was time to legitimize the operations with the aid of licensed medical practitioners. In 1925 Cayce reported while in a trance, \"the voice\" had instructed him to move to Virginia Beach, Virginia across the street from the beach. He was informed that the sand's crystals would have curative properties to promote rapid healing.\n\nCayce's mature period, in which he created the several institutions that survived him, can be considered to have started in 1925. By this time he was a professional psychic with a small number of employees and volunteers. The readings increasingly came to involve occult or esoteric themes.\n\nMoney was extremely scarce, but help came from interested persons. The idea of an association and a hospital was mooted again, but the readings insisted on Virginia Beach, not suiting most of the people. Gertrude Cayce began to conduct all the readings. Morton Blumenthal, a young man who worked in the stock exchange in New York with his trader brother, became very interested in the readings, shared Cayce's outlook, and offered to finance the vision in the right spirit. He bought them a house at Virginia Beach.\n\nOn May 6, 1927, the Association of National Investigations was incorporated in the state of Virginia. This would manage building the hospital and a scientific study of the readings. Morton was president and his brother and several others were vice presidents. Cayce was secretary and treasurer, and Gladys was assistant secretary. To protect against legal prosecution, the rules required any person requesting a reading to become a member of the Association and agree they were participating in an experiment in psychic research. Early in 1928, Dr Moseley Brown, head of the psychology dept at Washington and Lee University, became convinced of the readings and joined the Association.\n\nOn October 11, 1928, the dedication ceremonies for the hospital complex were held. It contained a lecture hall, library, vault for storage of the readings, and offices for research workers. There was also a large living room, a 12-car garage, servants quarters, and a tennis court. It contained \"the largest lawn, in fact the only lawn, between the Cavalier and Cape Henry.\" The first patient was admitted the next day.\n\nThis facility would enable consistent checking and rechecking of the remedies, which was Cayce's goal. There were consistent remedies for many of the illnesses regardless of the patient, and Cayce hoped to produce a compendium that could be used by the medical profession. A distinguished chemist, Dr Sunker A. Bisley, DPhil (Oxon), who also used psychic knowledge to produce medicines, collaborated with Cayce to produce Atomidine, an absorbable form of iodine, which was perfected and sold.\n\nThe basic raison d'etre for all the cures was the \"assimilation of needed properties through the digestive system, from food taken into the body… [All treatments, including all schools and types of treatment, were given in order to establish] the proper equilibrium of the assimilating system.\" Therapies as divergent as salt packs, poultices, hot compresses, color healing, magnetism, vibrator treatment, massage, osteopathic manipulation, dental therapy, colonics, enemas, antiseptics, inhalants, homeopathics, essential oils, mud baths were prescribed. Substances used included oils, salts, herbs, iodine, witch hazel, magnesia, bismuth, alcohol, castoria, lactated pepsin, turpentine, charcoal, animated ash, soda, cream of tartar, aconite, laudanum, camphor, and gold solution. These were prescribed to overcome conditions that prevented proper digestion and assimilation of needed nutrients from the prescribed diet. The aim of the readings was to produce a healthy body, removing the cause of the specific ailment. Readings would indicate if the patient's recovery was problematic.\n\nThere was a waiting list of months ahead. \nBlumenthal and Brown went ahead with ambitious plans for a university as a supplement to the hospital and a \"parallel service for the mind and spirit\". In fact, it was to dwarf the hospital and rival other universities in respectability before psychic studies would begin. It was to open on September 22, 1930. On September 16 Blumenthal called a meeting of the Association resulting in his ownership of the hospital to curb expenses. After the first semester he ceased his support of the university, and on February 26, 1931, closed down the Association. Cayce removed the files of the readings from the hospital and took them home.\n\nThe Depression years saw Cayce turn his attention to spiritual teachings. In 1931, Edgar Cayce's friends and family asked him how they could become psychic like him. Out of this seemingly simple question came an eleven-year discourse that led to the creation of \"Study Groups\". From his altered state, Cayce relayed to this group that the purpose of life is not to become psychic, but to become a more spiritually aware and loving person. Study Group #1 was told that they could \"bring light to a waiting world\" and that these lessons would still be studied a hundred years into the future. The readings were now about dreams, coincidence (synchronicity), developing intuition, karma, the akashic records, astrology, past-life relationships, soul mates and other esoteric subjects. Hundreds of books have been published about these readings.\n\nJune 6, 1931, 61 people attended a meeting to carry on the work and form a new organization called the Association for Research and Enlightenment. In July the new association was incorporated, and Cayce legally returned the house to Blumenthal and bought another place.\n\nHugh Lynn proposed that they develop a stock in trade rather than something grandiose, and that they build a library of research into the phenomena and hold study groups, and that Cayce would do two readings a day. The association accepted this, and Hugh Lynn also started a monthly bulletin for association members. The bulletin contained readings on general interest subjects, interesting cases, book reviews on psychic subjects, health hints from readings, and news of psychic phenomena in other fields.\n\nHugh Lynn narrowed the mailing list to some 300 members who were genuinely enthusiastic, and as a result the first annual congress of the association was held in June 1932. He procured speakers on various metaphysical and psychic subjects and included public readings by Cayce. Members left the conference eager to start study groups in their own localities. Records were kept of everything that went on in the readings including the attitudes and routines of Cayce. Everything was then checked with the subjects of the readings, most of whom were not present during the reading, and the data was published in a study entitled \"100 cases of clairvoyance.\" However, the response from scientists in general was that none of the experiments were performed under test conditions. Hugh Lynn continued to build files of case histories, parallel studies in psychic phenomena, and research readings for the study groups.\n\nAssociation activities remained simple and un-publicized. Members raised a building fund for an office, library, and vault, which they erected in 1940-1 as a single unit added on to the Cayce residence. No sign guided visitors to the centre. Association membership averaged 500 to 600. The turnover from year to year was approximately half this total. The other half remained a solid basis for the research work, an audience for case studies, pamphlets, bulletins—and the Congress bulletin, which was a yearbook and record of congress events. A mailing list of several thousand served people who remained interested in Cayce's activities.\nMembers were drawn from all of the Protestant churches: from the Roman, Greek, Syrian and Armenian Catholic churches; from Theosophy, Christian Science and Spiritualism; and from many Oriental religions. Cayce's philosophy was, if it makes you a better member of your church then it's good; if it takes you away from your church, it's bad. The philosophy of the readings was that truth is one, each organization is part of this one, therefore the A.R.E. was not to function as a schism or in opposition to any religious organization. The goal of the work was not something new but something ancient and universal.\nBoth sons entered the forces during the war. They both married, Hugh Lynn in 1941 and Edgar Evans in 1942.\nIn March 1943 the first edition of the only biography written during Cayce's lifetime, by Thomas Sugrue, was published. As a consequence, public demand increased. Office staff had to be increased, and the mailman could no longer carry all the mail so Gertrude got it from the post office by car. Hugh Lynn was away in the forces, and Cayce coped with the letters and increased his readings to four to six per day.\n\nCayce gained national prominence in 1943 after the publication of a high-profile article in the magazine \"Coronet\" titled \"Miracle Man of Virginia Beach\". World War II was taking its toll on American soldiers and he felt he could not refuse the families who requested help for their loved ones who were missing in action. He increased the frequency of his readings to eight per day to try to make an impression on the ever-growing pile of requests. He said this took a toll on his health as it was emotionally draining and often fatigued him. The readings themselves scolded him for attempting too much and that he should limit his workload to just two life readings a day or else these good efforts would eventually kill him.\n\nFrom June 1943 to June 1944, 1,385 readings were taken. By August 1944 Cayce collapsed from strain. When he gave a reading on this situation, the instructions were to rest until he was well or dead. He and Gertrude went away to the mountains of Virginia, but in September Edgar Cayce suffered a stroke at the age of 67, in September 1944, and died on January 3, 1945. He is buried in Riverside Cemetery in Hopkinsville, Kentucky. Gertrude died 3 months later.\n\nAfter the death of Cayce the Association continued the work of classifying and cross referring the over 14,000 files of readings that had been taken throughout Cayce's lifetime from March 31, 1901, to September 17, 1944. The results of these have been disseminated through the Associations publications with the members as the recipients of this material.\n\nUntil September 1923, his readings were not systematically recorded or preserved. However, an article published in the \"Birmingham Post-Herald\" on October 10, 1922, quotes Cayce as saying that he had given 8,056 readings as of that date and it is known that he gave approximately 13,000–14,000 readings after that date. A total of 14,306 are available at the A.R.E. Cayce headquarters in Virginia Beach and on an online member-only section along with background information, correspondence, and follow-up documentation.\n\nOther abilities that have been attributed to Cayce include astral projection, prophesying, mediumship, viewing the Akashic records or \"Book of Life\", and seeing auras. Cayce said he became interested in learning more about these subjects after he was informed about the content of his readings, which he reported that he never actually heard himself.\n\nCayce's clients included a number of famous people such as Woodrow Wilson, Thomas Edison, Irving Berlin, and George Gershwin.\n\nGina Cerminara published books such as \"Many Mansions\" and \"The World Within\". Brian Weiss published a bestseller regarding clinical recollection of past lives, \"Many Lives, Many Masters\". These books provide broad support for spiritualism and reincarnation. \"Many Mansions\" elaborates on Cayce's work and supports his stated abilities with real life examples.\n\nIn 1971 Edgar Cayce's sons Edgar Evans Cayce and Hugh Lynn Cayce published a book titled \"The Outer Limits of Edgar Cayce's Power\", claiming Cayce's readings had an approximate 85% success rate. The majority of the book investigated cases where Cayce's readings were demonstrably incorrect.\n\nKetchum was a physician who worked with Cayce in the early 1900s. Ketchum himself was born in Lisbon, Ohio on November 11, 1878, to Saunders C. Ketchum and Bertha Bennett, and was the oldest of 7 children. He graduated from the Cleveland College of Homeopathic Medicine in 1904, and took up the practice of medicine in Hopkinsville Kentucky. He practiced medicine in Hopkinsville until 1912. In 1913 he traveled across country to San Francisco, and took passage to Honolulu, Hawaii, where he opened a new practice. He returned to California in 1918, and established an office in Palo Alto California, practicing medicine there until the 1950s. He retired to Southern California around 1963, settling in San Marino, just outside Pasadena. He died on November 28, 1968, in Canoga Park, California.\n\nHe wrote \"The Discovery of Edgar Cayce\", published by the A.R.E. Press in 1964.\n\nCayce advocated some controversial ideas in his trance readings. In many trance sessions, he interpreted the history of life on Earth. One of Cayce's controversial claims was that of polygenism. According to Cayce, five human races (white, black, red, brown, and yellow) had been created separately but simultaneously on different parts of the Earth. Cayce also accepted the existence of aliens and Atlantis, and claimed that \"the red race developed in Atlantis and its development was rapid.\" Another claim by Cayce was that \"soul-entities\" on Earth intermingled with animals to produce \"things\": giants that were as much as twelve feet tall.\n\nHistorian Olav Hammer wrote that many of Cayce's readings discussed race and skin color and that the explanation for this is that Cayce was not a racist but was influenced by the occult ideas of Madame Blavatsky. Cayce declared that the Piltdown man was genuine, claiming he was an Atlantean colonizer who had travelled to Britain. However, the Piltdown man was exposed as a hoax in 1953.\n\nPhilosopher and skeptic Robert Todd Carroll, in his book \"The Skeptic's Dictionary\", wrote, \"Cayce is one of the main people responsible for some of the sillier notions about Atlantis.\" Carroll mentioned some of Cayce's ideas, including his belief in a giant solar crystal, activated by the sun, and used to harness energy and provide power on Atlantis, and his prediction that in 1958, the United States would rediscover a death ray that had been used on Atlantis.\n\nIn 1930s, Cayce also incorrectly predicted that North America would experience chaos: \"Los Angeles, San Francisco... will be among those that will be destroyed before New York\". These events were to have happened \"in the period of '58 to '98\".\n\nSkeptics challenge Cayce's alleged psychic abilities. Medical health experts are critical of Cayce's unorthodox treatments, which they regard as quackery.\n\nScience writers and skeptics have suggested that the evidence for Cayce's alleged psychic powers comes from contemporaneous newspaper articles, affidavits, anecdotes, testimonials, and books. Martin Gardner, for example, wrote that while Cayce's trances did happen, most of the information from his trances was derived from books that Cayce had been reading by authors such as Carl Jung, P. D. Ouspensky, and Helena Blavatsky. Gardner's hypothesis was that the trance readings of Cayce contain, \"little bits of information gleaned from here and there in the occult literature, spiced with occasional novelties from Cayce's unconscious.\"\n\nMichael Shermer writes in \"Why People Believe Weird Things\", \"Uneducated beyond the ninth grade, Cayce acquired his broad knowledge through voracious reading and from this he wove elaborate tales.\" Shermer wrote that, \"Cayce was fantasy-prone from his youth, often talking with angels and receiving visions of his dead grandfather.\" Magician James Randi has said that \"Cayce was fond of expressions like 'I feel that' and 'perhaps'—qualifying words used to avoid positive declarations.\" Examination of the readings do not show qualifying terms.\n\nInvestigator Joe Nickell has noted:\n\nAlthough Cayce was never subjected to proper testing, ESP pioneer Joseph B. Rhine of Duke University — who should have been sympathetic to Cayce's claims — was unimpressed. A reading that Cayce gave for Rhine's daughter was notably inaccurate. Frequently, Cayce was even wider off the mark, as when he provided diagnoses of subjects \"who had died\" since the letters requesting the readings were sent.\n\nScience writer Karen Stollznow has written:\n\nTraditional Christians are critical of Cayce's views on issues such as reincarnation, oneness, and the Akashic records.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55560612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55560612", "title": "Edward A. Kracke Jr.", "text": "Edward A. Kracke Jr.\n\nEdward A. Kracke Jr. (January 22, 1908 – July 8, 1976) was an American historian of China at the University of Chicago, specializing in Song dynasty history. He was president of the American Oriental Society in 1972–73.\n\nHis father-in-law was the idealist philosopher William Ernest Hocking.\n\nEdward A. Kracke Jr. was born in Brooklyn, N.Y. and raised largely in Chicago and Europe. He attended Harvard University where he received three academic degrees: B.A. in 1932, M.A. in 1935, and Ph.D. in 1941. His undergraduate degree was in architecture and the fine arts, but a course under Langdon Warner ignited his interest in China. With an M.A. under his belt, he studied Chinese and Central Asian history under Étienne Balazs at l'École nationale des langues orientales vivantes in Paris, France in 1935–36. From 1936 to 1940 he studied Chinese language and history at Yenching University in Beiping (Beijing), China, where he associated with William Hung. Subsequently he returned to Harvard, working with Edwin O. Reischauer, John K. Fairbank and Serge Elisséeff and completing a post-doctoral fellowship in Japanese language.\n\nDuring World War II, Kracke worked as an intelligence officer at the Far East Division, Research and Analysis Branch of the Office of Strategic Services in Washington, D.C.. From January 1944 to October 1945 he headed the Japanese Political Section, producing reports on political conditions in Japan, Formosa (Taiwan), and Korea. In 1946 he transferred to the U.S. Department of State's Division of Far East Intelligence, where he stayed for less than six months before resigning to devote himself to scholarly pursuits.\n\nIn 1946, Kracke went as a visiting professor to the University of Chicago, where he would remain until retiring in 1973. In 1953 he published a monograph titled \"Civil Service in Early Sung China\", a pioneering study of the Song (Sung) society and institutions based on his dissertation. From 1954 to 1957, he served as director of the Far Eastern Association (now Association for Asian Studies), from 1957 to 1963, Chairman of the Committee on Far Eastern Civilizations, from 1970 to 1971, Chairman of the Committee on Far Eastern Studies, and from 1972 to 1973, president of the American Oriental Society. He also served as the Director of the Center for Far Eastern Studies from 1961 to 1964 and again in 1971–1972.\n"}
{"id": "23867075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23867075", "title": "Federico Chabod", "text": "Federico Chabod\n\nFederico Chabod or Frédéric Chabod (February 23, 1901 – July 14, 1960) was an Italian historian and politician.\n\nBorn at Aosta, he studied at the University of Turin under Pietro Egidi and Gaetano Salvemini, writing his thesis on Machiavelli. His thesis was published with the title of \"Introduzione al 'Principe'\" in 1924. After graduating from the University of Turin, he continued his studies, this time at the University of Berlin under Friedrich Meinecke. He began his academic career at the University of Perugia and the University of Milan. In 1946, he was hired by the University of Rome to head the Istituto Italiano per gli Studi Storici founded by Benedetto Croce. He is best known for expanding Italian historiography from its traditional insularity by linking it in a broader, European context. \n\nChabod died at Rome in 1960.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40200150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40200150", "title": "Genocide of indigenous peoples in Paraguay", "text": "Genocide of indigenous peoples in Paraguay\n\nThere are 17 indigenous tribes in Paraguay with the majority having their territories in the Chaco region. Tribes in this region include the Guaraní, Ayoreo, Toba-Maskoy, Aché and Sanapan which according to the census from 2002 number an estimated 86,000 or roughly around 2 per cent of the total population. These peoples have faced persecution particularly under the dictator Alfredo Strossner that some observers call a Genocide of indigenous peoples in Paraguay.\nBetween 1956 and 1989, while under the military rule of General Alfredo Stroessner, the indigenous population had more territory taken than at any other period in Paraguay's history and were subjected to systematic human rights abuses. In 1971, Mark Münzel, a German anthropologist accused Stroessner of attempted genocide against the indigenous peoples of Paraguay and Bartomeu Melià, a Jesuit anthropologist stated that the forced relocations of the indigenous peoples was ethnocide. In the early 1970s the Stroessner regime was charged by international groups of being complicit in genocide. However, because of the repressive actions undertaken by the state the indigenous tribes organized themselves politically and had a major role in bringing about the end of the military dictatorship and the eventual transition to democracy.\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, 85 percent of the Aché tribe died, with many hacked to death with machetes to make room for the timber industry, mining, farming and ranchers. One estimate posits this amounts to 900 deaths.According to Jérémie Gilbert, the situation in Paraguay has proven that it is difficult to provide the proof required to show \"specific intent\", in support of a claim that genocide had occurred. The Aché, whose cultural group is now seen as extinct, fell victim to the development by the state, who had promoted the exploration of Aché territory by transnational companies for natural resources. Gilbert concludes that though planned and voluntary destruction had occurred, it is argued by the state that there was no intent to destroy the Aché, as what had happened was due to development.\n\nThe allegation of genocide by the state was brought before the Inter-American Human Rights Commission which has jurisdiction on allegations of genocide carried out by a state. The commission gave a provisional ruling that Paraguay had not carried out a genocide, but stated it had concerns over \"possible abuses by private persons in remote areas of the territory of Paraguay\".\n\n"}
{"id": "42343340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42343340", "title": "Giorgi Khoshtaria", "text": "Giorgi Khoshtaria\n\nGiorgi \"Gogi\" Khoshtaria (; born October 4, 1938) is a Georgian art historian and former politician who served as the first Minister of Foreign Affairs of post-Soviet Georgia from November 1990 to August 1991. He is ranked as First Class Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Envoy.\n\nGogi Khoshtaria was born in Tbilisi in the family of Georgian intelligentsia. His father, Metode Khoshtaria (1911–1938), a highway engineer and a nephew of the wealthy entrepreneur and philanthropist Akaki Khoshtaria, was shot at the age of 27 during the Great Purge. His mother, Tinatin Virsaladze (1907–1985), was an art historian. Gogi Khoshtaria was also trained as an art historian at the Tbilisi State University and pursued an academic career. In the 1980s, he joined the dissident movement and became closely associated with Zviad Gamsakhurdia, who became the first post-Communist leader of Georgia and made Khoshtaria Minister of Foreign Affairs on November 26, 1990.\n\nAs a foreign minister, Khoshtaria met with the Soviet Foreign Minister Alexander Bessmertnykh twice after Georgia's declaration of independence in April 1991, but the relations between Moscow and Tbilisi became increasingly tense and the contacts between the two ministires ceased by mid-1991. Khoshtaria worked with the Turkish government for closer Georgian–Turkish relations and resisted the Soviet attempts to bring these ties under control. He also visited Germany and France in April and the United States in June 1991 to further the Georgian independence cause and lobby for closer economic relations. Despite his efforts, Khoshtaria became alienated from Gamsakhurdia and was dismissed in August 1991. He cited Gamsakhurdia's authoritarian tendencies and failure to immediately denounce the 1991 Soviet coup d'état attempt as the reasons behind the split.\n\nAfter his retirement, Khoshtaria resumed academic career. He lectures at several other academia and is a frequent commentator on culture and monument protection.\n"}
{"id": "21697911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21697911", "title": "Giovanni Lami", "text": "Giovanni Lami\n\nGiovanni Lami (1697–1770) was an Italian jurist, Church historian, and antiquarian. Born at Santa Croce sull'Arno in 1697, he studied at the University of Pisa and obtained his doctorate of law in 1719. He was the prefect of the Biblioteca Pallavicini at Genoa and later president of the Biblioteca Riccardiana at Florence. He eventually succeeded to a professorship of ecclesiastical history at the University of Florence, and was a court theologian and counsellor to the Grand Duke of Tuscany. He died in 1770 and was buried in the Basilica di Santa Croce. His magnum opus was the eighteen-volume \"Deliciae eruditorum\", a \"hodge-podge of antiquarian lore\" published over a span of decades at Florence. Lami was the first to describe the Byzantine manuscripts Minuscule 201, Minuscule 362, and Minuscule 370. He also wrote a \"Memorabilia\", dedicated to the illustrious men of his time, and many other works of history and philology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26512901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26512901", "title": "Giuseppe D'Amato", "text": "Giuseppe D'Amato\n\nGiuseppe D’Amato is an Italian historian, specializing in Russia and the former USSR, and a columnist of international politics.\n\nAfter getting a decree in Italy in the nineteen eighties, D'Amato became a scholar of the Russian academician Sigurd Ottovich Schmidt (in Russian ) at Moscow’s Historical-Archive Institute (Russian State University for the Humanities) in the nineteen Nineties. He got a Ph.D. in history.\n\nD’Amato wrote a book about Italian travellers to Russia in the 15th -16th centuries and studied Russian-Italian relationships. Some of his articles have been published in languages other than Italian. He wrote three books respectively on the subjects of the break-up of USSR, the EU enlargement to the East, and euro-integration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12796137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12796137", "title": "Guillermo Morón", "text": "Guillermo Morón\n\nGuillermo Morón Montero (Carora, Venezuela, 8 February 1926), is a Venezuelan writer and historian. Guillermo Morón has won awards including the Municipal Prize of Literature (Narrative mention) (1987), and the National Prize for Literature (1990).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47189608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47189608", "title": "H. Foster Pettit", "text": "H. Foster Pettit\n\nHarrison Foster Pettit, Sr. (August 24, 1930 – November 22, 2014), was a lawyer, businessman, and Democratic politician from his native Lexington, Kentucky, USA.\n\nOne of three children of William Pettit, Jr. (1897-1962), and the former Elizabeth Dunster Duncan Foster (1905-1998), a native of Hennepin County, Minnesota, Pettit was reared in Lexington in Fayette County, Kentucky. In 1951, he enlisted in the United States Air Force. Before his assignment to Turkey, he learned Russian at the Army Defense Language Institute in Monterey, California. His military duties involved the interception of radio communications from the former Soviet Union. He earned bachelor's and law degrees from the University of Virginia and the University of Virginia School of Law, both in Charlottesville, Virginia.\n\nIn 1964, Pettit was elected to the Kentucky House of Representatives for District 53 Fayette County. He served three two-year terms. In 1971, Pettit was elected as the mayor of Lexington, a non-partisan position which he held from 1972 to 1978. Tmunicipal and county governments were consolidated in 1974, through the joint effort of Mayor Petit and Fayette County Judge Robert Stephens.\n\nWhile Pettit was mayor, the Commonwealth Stadium opened, and the Lexington Ballet was founded. The Federal Medical Center in Lexington was designated a federal prison in 1974. That same year, the Festival of the Bluegrass was launched. Opening in the Pettit years were the Lexington Mall, which closed in 2005; the Lexington Center, an entertainment, convention, and sports complex, a new modern airport terminal at Blue Grass Field, and the 23,500-seat Rupp Arena.\n\nPettit was succeeded as mayor by his former election rival, James Amato. From 1979 to 1981, Pettit was the Secretary of Public Protection and Regulation during the administration of Democratic Governor John Y. Brown, Jr. He was of counsel with the prestigious Lexington law firm of Wyatt, Tarrant & Combs, named for Kentucky Democrat politicians Wilson W. Wyatt and Bert T. Combs.\nFrom 1970 to 1999, Pettit owned the 15-story First National Building on West Main Street in Lexington, which was remodeled into a museum hotel with city support. He was a former chairman of Bluegrass FLOW (For Local Ownership of Water), a group which failed in an effort to acquire the Kentucky-American Water Company. Pettit was president of the Blue Grass Trust for Historic Preservation and was active in the Salvation Army, the American Red Cross, the Chamber of Commerce, and the Presbyterian Church.\n\nOn October 16, 2014, while fishing with friends in the Louisiana delta, Pettit's boat capsized in shallow water. Though rescued several hours later by the United States Coast Guard, Pettit sustained a cut on his leg and died five weeks later at North Oaks Medical Center in Hammond, Tangipahoa Parish, of vibrio, a bacterial infection common to coastal waters.\nPettit's wife of some twenty years, the former Carole Thomas (1943-2002), a graduate of Georgetown College in Georgetown, Kentucky, and Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee, was found dead at the age of fifty-nine in October 2002 in scenic Elkhorn Creek in Scott County, Kentucky. She was apparently trying to retrieve a canoe in high water, an accident somewhat similar to the fate of her husband twelve years later. Thereafter Pettit was married to Brenda Kraak (born c. 1940), formerly Brenda Cummings of Shreveport, Louisiana, who has worked at the Henry Clay Foundation in Lexington.\n\nPettit had previously been married to the former Marion Hale Gregory (1931-2015), daughter of former Kentucky congressman Noble Jones Gregory, with whom he had three surviving children: Noble Gregory Pettit, Van Meter Pettit and his wife, Linda Blackford, of Lexington, and Harrison Pettit, Jr., and wife Lisa Pearlstein of Portland, Oregon; four step-children, Alison Byrd, Kurt Cummings, and Emily Lofton, all of Shreveport, and Courtney Caulfield of Mandeville in St. Tammany Parish, Louisiana. Another son, Hale Pettit (1964-1998), predeceased his father. Pettit had five grandchildren and seven step-grandchildren. \n"}
{"id": "1324879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1324879", "title": "Jacob Aall", "text": "Jacob Aall\n\nJacob Aall (27 July 1773 – 4 August 1844) was a Norwegian politician, historian, landowner and government economist.\n\nHe was born the son of Nicolai Benjamin Aall (1739-1798), who was a merchant in Porsgrunn, Norway and owner of Ulefos Manor. He was also the nephew of merchant Jacob Aall (1754-1826).\n\nIn 1791, Aall began attending a school in Copenhagen, Denmark where he earned a degree in theology in 1795. After graduating, he returned to Norway where he tried working as a cleric, but he felt that his abilities were not well at use and decided to take up other studies. In 1796, he returned to Copenhagen, where he began studying natural science. In 1797, he journeyed to Germany, touring the scientific schools of Leipzig, Kiel and Göttingen. In Germany he became acquainted with the geologist Abraham Gottlob Werner.\n\nIn 1799, after spending the winter at the academy of mines in Freiberg, Aall returned to Norway. Following his father's death, he invested his patrimony in the purchase of the immense Nes Iron-works in the Arendal ore region. After purchasing the iron-works, the operation became more efficient, but was placed in a difficult position at the outbreak of the English Wars in 1801. However, the business persevered.\n\nIn 1814 he took a prominent part in the framing of the free Constitution of Norway, and for fourteen years (1816-1830), he was a leading member of the Storting, the Norwegian National Assembly.\n\nAs a writer, he translated and published Snorri Sturluson's \"Heimskringla\". His \"Reminisciences\" (1844-1845) is a repository of data concerning the contemporaneous history of the Scandinavian peninsula.\n\nIn his later years, Aall increasingly withdrew from public life, and left most of the work at the iron-works to his son.\n\nIn 1799 he married Louise Andrea Stephansen (1779-1825), with whom he had at least one son.\n\nAall lent his name to Jacob Aall Street in Oslo.\n\nHe was one of the 41 Norwegian citizens who helped make the creation of the University of Oslo (previously named Royal Frederick University) possible through donations.\n\nAall was bestowed upon the Medal for Bogerdåd, the Order of Vasa and the Order of the Polar Star.\n\nHe was a member of the Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences and the Royal Danish Science Ernes Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "43153549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43153549", "title": "James Francis Dimock", "text": "James Francis Dimock\n\nJames Francis Dimock (1810–1876) was an English cleric and historical scholar.\n\nThe son of John Giles Dimock, rector of Uppingham, Rutland, he was born at Stonehouse, Gloucestershire, on 22 November 1810. He was educated at Uppingham School under Dr Buckland, was admitted pensioner of St John's College, Cambridge, on 21 February 1829, and was elected Bell's scholar in 1830. He graduated B.A. in 1833, and M.A. in 1837.\n\nHaving been ordained deacon and priest by the bishop of Lincoln, Dimock was in 1846 appointed minor canon of Southwell Cathedral; he gave up the canonry on his appointment as rector of Barnburgh, near Doncaster, in 1863. In 1869 he was made prebendary of Lincoln, and he held the prebend with his rectory until his death at Barnburgh on 21 April 1876.\n\nDimock was interested in ecclesiastical and mediaeval history: his earliest work was \"Illustrations of the Collegiate Church of Southwell\", London, 1854. In 1860 he published at Lincoln an edition of the \"Metrical Life of St. Hugh\", and in 1864 he edited for the Rolls Series the \"Magna Vita S. Hugonis, Episcopi Lincolniensis\", 1864. He also published \"The Thirty-nine Articles . . . explained, proved, and compared with her other authorized formularies\", London, 1843, 1845, 2 vols.\n\nHis major work was his edition of part of the works of Giraldus Cambrensis for the Rolls Series; the first four volumes were edited by John Sherren Brewer, and vols. v-vii., which appeared between 1867 and 1877, by Dimock; the edition was completed with an eighth volume by George Frederic Warner.\n\nAttribution\n\n"}
{"id": "35062472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35062472", "title": "James of Metz", "text": "James of Metz\n\nVery little is known about the life and times of James Metz. It is a mystery when he was born and when he died, but what is known is that he was philosophically active in the first decade of the fourteenth century. Of his works that survive presently, much of it remains unedited, and only a dozen manuscript copies still exist. James was known as a Dominican Theologian, which meant following the teachings of Saint Thomas Aquinas. However, James earned the reputation for being a \"critical-Thomist,\" as he openly disagreed some of Aquinas's positions. One account of James describes him as an “eclectic thinker,” and that his works were partially influenced by Peter of Auvergne as well as Henry of Ghent.\n\nThe only philosophical work of James’s that is known for certain is that he gave two lectures on Peter Lombard’s \"Sentences\". Presumably, these lectures occurred at the University of Paris, roughly from 1300-1306. An instance in which James did not see eye-to-eye with Aquinas was in regard to the way Aquinas described individuation by matter. Aquinas held the view that that matter is the principle of individuation. James, on the other hand, believed that form is the principle of individuation. Another disagreement between James and Aquinas concerned the process of knowledge, primarily knowledge of immaterial substances and knowledge of God. James’s views differed from those of Aquinas in that James attempted to find compatibility between Augustinian and Aristotelian accounts of knowledge. These disagreements with Aquinas warranted criticism from the Master General of Dominican Order, Hervaeus Natalis, as he wrote a doctrine called \"A Correction of Brother James Metz.\" Concerning the divine essence, James held the view that it functioned as an origin, and that it “performs solely in relation to being.” James advocated that there is a duality to the divine essence. In one instance it is a pure essence, the sole origin of our act and our being. In the second instance, James believed essence can also be seen as an attribute, and that it is the cause of specific actions.\n"}
{"id": "50259325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50259325", "title": "Jennifer Ratner-Rosenhagen", "text": "Jennifer Ratner-Rosenhagen\n\nJennifer Ratner-Rosenhagen is the Merle Curti Associate Professor of History at the University of Wisconsin–Madison and author of \"American Nietzsche\" (2011). From 2014-15, she was a Radcliffe Institute Fellow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "854015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=854015", "title": "John Godfrey", "text": "John Godfrey\n\nJohn Ferguson Godfrey, (born December 19, 1942) is a Canadian educator, journalist and former Member of Parliament.\n\nGodfrey was born in Toronto, Ontario. His father, Senator John Morrow Godfrey (June 28, 1912 – March 8, 2001), was a Canadian pilot, lawyer and politician. John Godfrey graduated from Upper Canada College in 1960. In 1961, he attended the Neuchâtel Junior College in Neuchâtel, Switzerland.\n\nIn 1965, he received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Trinity College, University of Toronto and in 1967, he received a Master of Philosophy from Balliol College, Oxford and Doctor of Philosophy (DPhil) from St Antony's College, Oxford in 1975. He worked as an economist, historian and journalist. In the mid-1970s Godfrey was a history professor at Dalhousie University in Halifax. He served as president of the University of King's College from 1977-87. From 1987 to 1991 he was editor of the \"Financial Post\".\n\nHe was elected to the House of Commons of Canada as the Liberal Member of Parliament (MP) for the Toronto area riding of Don Valley West in the 1993 election, and was re-elected in each subsequent vote until his resignation in 2008.\n\nDuring the 1995 Quebec referendum, Godfrey had an acquaintance perform a psychiatric evaluation of separatist leader Lucien Bouchard.\n\nIn 1996, he and fellow Liberal MP Peter Milliken introduced the Godfrey–Milliken Bill a parody of the American Helms–Burton Act. The gesture received extensive media coverage including in the United States, where Godfrey was featured on the CBS program \"60 Minutes\". From 1996 to 2004, Godfrey served as a Parliamentary Secretary under Prime Minister Jean Chrétien.\n\nIn 2003, Paul Martin succeeded Chrétien as Liberal leader and prime minister. Following the subsequent 2004 election, Godfrey, among other key Martin allies, was appointed to the Cabinet in the role of Minister of State for Infrastructure and Communities. In this role, he was primarily responsible for overseeing the \"New Deal for Cities\", Federation of Canadian Municipalities relationship, and other initiatives in Canadian federal-municipal relations. This role was considered a keystone of Martin's industrial strategy.\n\nAccording to Auditor General of Canada Sheila Fraser, Canada lags far behind the US and UK in municipal performance audits for government, in applying its own statements to procurement, and in direct federal standards applying to municipal operations. Godfrey was tasked with dealing with these substantial problems, a role complicated by the fact that, constitutionally, provinces in Canada have formal jurisdiction over cities and municipalities, and have blocked most necessary changes in funding and operations. This is markedly different from in the US where the General Accounting Office has applied specific accounting standards, and the Federal Emergency Management Agency has required specific upgrades to city emergency responses. As in major American cities, federal support of a municipal emergency response is a problem of particular concern in Godfrey's home city of Toronto, following the SARS outbreak, the August 2003 blackout and smog and snow crises. Toronto is also considered to be the primary target for any asymmetric warfare/terrorist attack on Canada.\n\nAs an additional complexity, Canadian cities faced with gridlock and smog problems due to commuting and urban sprawl, now face Kyoto Accord requirements to cut greenhouse gas output.\n\nTo deal with these problems, on a national level, Godfrey was directly involved in negotiations regarding climate change auditing and other municipal performance indicators that would apply at least to cities in Canada, and eventually to all municipalities.\n\nOn February 3, 2006, CBC Newsworld's Don Newman announced on air that Godfrey was planning a run for the Liberal Party leadership. Godfrey declared his candidacy on \"Goldhawk Live\" on March 19, shortly after the rules and convention date were set. Media reaction was positive, but competed with coverage of Ashley MacIsaac, who declared his intention to run to the \"Halifax Daily News\" the next day.\n\nIn the early stages of the campaign he was recurrently cited as exemplar of intellectualism in the race, being one of three former university professors in the running. Name-recognition remained a challenge, but Godfrey received plaudits in the Canadian blogosphere for his performance in the first all-candidates meeting at the Liberal Party of Alberta convention on April 8.\n\nOn April 12, 2006, Godfrey announced his withdrawal from the race, due to concerns about his health. On October 20, 2006, Godfrey announced his support for Bob Rae for the federal Liberal leadership. He made the announcement at the National Press Club, on the occasion of a speech by Rae on the environment.\n\nGodfrey announced in November 2007, that he would be resigning his seat in parliament on July 1, 2008 and would leave earlier if an election were called before that date. He subsequently delayed his resignation date until August 1. The Conservative Party alleged that the Liberals chose to delay the by-election for financial reasons though Godfrey's office stated that the delay was due to a private members bill Godfrey had worked on not being given Royal Assent until June 26.\n\nOn June 17, in a point of order following Question Period, Godfrey gave his resignation speech to the House of Commons.\n\nJohn Godfrey left politics to become Headmaster of the Toronto French School, a prestigious independent school in the Lawrence Park area with two campuses in Toronto. He held the position from 2008 until resigning in June 2014.\n"}
{"id": "36422453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36422453", "title": "Legacy of José de San Martín", "text": "Legacy of José de San Martín\n\nJosé de San Martín is the national hero of Argentina, Chile and Peru, and along with Simón Bolívar, the most important \"Libertador\" of the Spanish American Wars of Independence. For this reason, he is homaged and depicted in several cultural works of those countries, and even internationally.\n\nJosé de San Martín died on 17 August 1850, in his house at Boulogne-sur-Mer, France. He requested in his will to be taken to the cemetery without any funeral, and to be moved to Buenos Aires, Argentina, afterwards. He also bequeathed his curved saber to the Argentine governor Juan Manuel de Rosas. Mariano Balcarce informed Rosas and the foreign minister Felipe Arana of San Martín's death. Balcarce oversaw the embalming of his remains and his temporary stay in a chapel of the city. He also sent the saber to Buenos Aires. \n\nHowever, the rebellion of Justo José de Urquiza against Rosas in 1851, Rosas' defeat at the battle of Caseros and the resulting chaos delayed the move of San Martín's remains to Buenos Aires. Still, both Rosas and Urquiza organized public homages to San Martín, regardless of their ongoing conflict. Buenos Aires seceded from Argentina as the state of Buenos Aires, dominated by Unitarians who despised San Martín. Thus, the move of his remains was postponed indefinitely. Aware that there were no favourable conditions to the project, Balcarce arranged a creation of a tomb in the Boulogne-sur-Mer cemetery.\n\nThe remains of San Martín were finally repatriated on May 29, 1880, during the presidency of Nicolás Avellaneda. The mausoleum was placed inside the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Cathedral. As San Martín was suspected of being a freemason, the mausoleum was placed in an expanded wing of the Cathedral.\n\nSan Martín was first acclaimed as a national hero of Argentina by the Federals, as Rosas and Urquiza. Bernardo de Irigoyen published the \"Recuerdos del General San Martín\" () in 1851. The unitarians still resented his refusal to aid the Supreme Directors with the Army of the Andes against Estanislao López and Francisco Ramírez, which led to their downfall at the Battle of Cepeda, and San Martín's constant support to Rosas. \n\nThe unitarian Bartolomé Mitre wrote a series of biographies, and established Bernardino Rivadavia as a national hero of Argentina. However, as Rivadavia was a statesman without a military career, Mitre sought to create a military national hero, to complement Rivadavia, and wrote a biography of Manuel Belgrano. This attempt did not prove completely effective, as Belgrano had grave defeats in his military career. Thus, Mitre wrote a biography of San Martín, \"Historia de San Martín y de la emancipación sudamericana\"\" (). By that time, several accounts of San Martín were being written at many countries: Valentín Ledesma from Lima wrote in 1853 about San Martín's campaign in Peru, and Benjamín Vicuña Mackenna from Chile wrote in 1856 about the Chilean War of Independence.\n\nSan Martín's support to the Latin American integration contradicted the strong centralism of the government party. As a result, the biography written by Mitre modified details about him. The Spanish American wars of independence are not treated as a continent-wide revolution, but merely as an Argentine revolution that extends freedom to Chile and Peru. Bolívar is portrayed instead as a conqueror, annexing the new free countries into an artificial unity. The war is described to be separatist from the beginning, and encouraged and supported by Britain. However, in the specific case of San Martín this scenario could seem contradictory, as he had left America as a child and served for the Spanish army for 22 years. As a result, his military career in Spain is summarized in six pages (the whole book has more than six hundred), giving very little detail about him before his arrival to Buenos Aires. As for the reason for his departure from the Spanish army to join the South American ones, the book describes that \"he decided to return to his distant nation, which he had always loved as a true mother, to offer her his sword and devote her his life\". Meaning, that his first six years living in America shaped his personality more than the twenty eight he had lived so far in Spain. This point generated controversy among historians.\n\nThe historiography outlined by Mitre was first questioned in the 1930s, by historians who sought to update the information about Juan Manuel de Rosas. The support of San Martín to Rosas and the bequeathing of his saber was usually concealed or downplayed by the Mitrist historians, those new ones highlighted it. Later historians would point even more informations that contradicted the portrayal by Mitre, such as his good relations with the other \"caudillos\" and his personal enmity with Rivadavia, which included a cancelled duel.\n\nWhen the news of the death of San Martín arrived to Entre Ríos, the governor Justo José de Urquiza erected a column in his recognition at the main plaza of Paraná. Tomás Guido proposed a statue at the Santa Fe Province in 1854. Louis-Joseph Daumas began a monument of San Martín in Santiago de Chile in 1859, so another one was requested to the sculptor and rushed in Buenos Aires at the Plaza Marte (modern Plaza San Martín). The monument in Chile was inaugurated in 1863, and the one in Buenos Aires in 1862.\n\nTwo monuments were erected in Peru in the early 20th century, one in front of the Real Felipe Fortress in 1901 and another in Lima in 1921. A statue was built in Rosario in 1883. Santa Fe got one in 1901, Mendoza in 1904, Corrientes in 1806, and so on. Finally, the \"Cerro de la Gloria\" in Mendoza was inaugurated on February 12, 1914, an anniversary of the Battle of Chacabuco.\n\nThe battle of San Lorenzo, the only battle actually fought by San Martín in the modern territory of Argentina, is the theme of the San Lorenzo march. The military march was composed in February 1901 by Cayetano Alberto Silva following a proposal from Representative Celestino Pera. It was first officially played on October 30, 1902 at the inauguration of the monument to General San Martín in Rosario. The lyrics were written by professor Carlos Benielli in 1908. The march became famous in other countries and, according to the Argentine British Community Council, it has been considered in Europe to be one of the five best military marches ever written. The military bands of Uruguay, Brazil and Poland, amongst others, include it in their musical repertory.\n\nAnthem to the Liberator General San Martín\nMusic: Arturo Luzzatt\nLyrics: Segundo M. Argarañaz\n\nSan Martín was born in Yapeyú, Corrientes, in a poor family, and moved to Spain a short time afterwards. For evident reasons, he did not pose for any portrait during his infancy. Neither he did during his military career in Spain, as he lived in the barracks and it was not common to make portraits of young military. He was usually reluctlant to pose for portraits, because of modesty and his frugal military lifestyle. During his stay in Argentina there is a drawing on ivory in his mounted grenadier uniform, of unknown author.\n\nThe first known case where San Martín posed for a portrait was the 1818 portrait by José Gil de Castro, made in Chile. It was painted after the battle of Chacabuco, as part of the celebrations for victory, and it was officially exhibited the following year, during the Chilean Declaration of Independence. Castro's portrait features a notable sharp aquiline nose, but that was part of his particular style, and his other works usually feature similar noses. It is unknown if he posed for other portraits in Peru: the one by the contemporary Mariano Carrillo was signed after San Martín's departure from the Americas, and the one by Drexel was made five years after it.\n\nWhen he moved to Brussels, after his retirement, Jean Henri Simon made a medal of him. He posed for a new portrait in an unknown date for the artist Francois Joseph Navez, which is currently kept at the National Historical Museum. In 1828 the general Miller, who was writing his memoirs, requested San Martín to pose again, in military uniform. The work was done by Jean-Baptiste Madou. Madou made both a portrait and a testing lithography, which are kept in the aforementioned museum. After it, San Martín swore that he would not pose for further portraits. However, a new technology was developed in France by then, the daguerreotype, preddecesor of modern photography. San Martín's daughter took him with pretexts to the house of the daguerreotypist and, once there, convinced him to pose for it. He posed for two daguerreotypes.\n\nThe first portraits of the crossing of the Andes featured San Martín mounting a white horse. This was done for visual purposes, to make San Martín prominent among the other soldiers, and the white color has visual impact. This led to the common misconception that San Martín may have crossed the Andes on a white horse, when he actually did so on a mule, which is better suited to move in the mountains.\n\nThe first Argentine silent movies were created in the 1910s, nearing the Argentina Centennial. José de San Martín was played by the novice actor Federico López in the movie \"El himno nacional\" (), singing the Argentine National Anthem. It was directed by Mario Gallo, who made other films related to San Martín: \"La batalla de San Lorenzo\" (), \"La batalla de Maipú\" () and \"Episodios de San Martín\" (). Those last three films are lost.\n\nThe first full biographical film of San Martín was \"Nuestra Tierra de Paz\" (), from 1939. It was written by Arturo Mom and the main actor was Pedro Tocci. Except for the scenes at the Andes, it was all filmed at the Campo de Mayo military base. A new biographical film, \"El Santo de la Espada\", starred by Alfredo Alcón, was made in 1970. Directed by Leopoldo Torre Nilsson, it kept the technical crew and most of the cast of an earlier movie about the Martín Fierro. It was one of the most expensive Argentine films to that date. San Martín was used as a secondary character in the films \"\" (1971) and \"Juan Manuel de Rosas\" (1972).\n\nThe controversial National Reorganization Process reduced the popular interest in warfare films. \"El General y la fiebre\" () was an attempt in 1993 to make a film about San Martín without warfare. Written by Jorge Coscia and starred by Rubén Stella, it focused on his brief stay in Córdoba recovering from his diseases, and his opium addiction as a form of anesthesia. The 2010 Argentina Bicentennial renewed the interest in historical films, which led to a new biographical film of San Martín, \"\"\" (), directed by Leandro Ipiña and starring Rodrigo de la Serna. San Martín, played by Pablo Echarri, was also a secondary character of the film \"Manuel Belgrano\".\n\nThe 2010 Bicentennial of Chile led to the creation of the miniseries \"Héroes\", with biopics of national heroes of Chile Bernardo O'Higgins, José Miguel Carrera and Manuel Rodríguez, along others. Daniel Muñoz played San Martín at the three films, \"O'Higgins, vivir para merecer su nombre\", \"Carrera, el príncipe de los caminos\" and \"Rodríguez, hijo de la rebeldía\".\n\n"}
{"id": "52403304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52403304", "title": "List of monuments in Chișinău", "text": "List of monuments in Chișinău\n\nThis is a list of monuments in Chișinău.\n\nAlley of Classics is a sculptural Complex found in Central Park Ștefan cel Mare Chișinău. Busts of red granite dedicated to writers of Romanian literature and politicians of Moldova.\n\nȘtefan cel Mare's monument from Chișinău is by sculptor Alexandru Plămădeală (1888-1940) and architect Alexandru Bernardazzi. The monument was inaugurated in 1927 in Public Garden of Chișinău.\n\nDedicated to classic poet and dramatist of Romanian literature Vasile Alecsandri. It is made from bronze and is in front of the National Library of Moldova.\n\nDedicated to \"Artist Emeriti of Republic Moldova\" Ion and Doina Aldea-Teodorovici.\n\nDedicated to the writer of classics Romanian literature Ion Creangă. It was installed in 1982 at Pedagogical University of Chișinău.\n\nCapitoline wolf (Lupa Capitolina) from Chișinău, was given by the municipality of Rome in first years after union of Bessarabia and Bucovinei with România, respective in 1921 and was installed in front of building country advice. În time of sovietic occupation,was melted, find treated like symbol of imperialism. After first years of independence a Republica Moldova was installed a companion in front of “History museum of Republica Moldova” from Chișinău, which once with coming to power of Communist Faction from Moldova, was dissembled. In 2009 was reinstalled a second companion at one time with coming to power Alliance for European integration.\n\nGrigore Kotovski's statue from Chișinău was the first equestrian statue from the Moldavian SSR Soviet period. It is for the Communist hero of civil war from Russia, Grigore Kotovski.\n\n\nSoviet monument. Sculptors: A. Miko, I. Poniatowski, L. Fitov. \n\nSovietic monument.\n\nSovietic monument. Mounted in the front of Government House in Central Square on 11 October 1949, before the anniversary of 25 years from the creation of Moldovan SSR. In 1991 the monument was moved on the territory of exhibition centre \"MoldExpo\".\n"}
{"id": "16193974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16193974", "title": "Lizanne Henderson", "text": "Lizanne Henderson\n\nLizanne Henderson is a Senior Lecturer in history at the University of Glasgow in Dumfries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9483701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9483701", "title": "Maximus (bishop of Zaragoza)", "text": "Maximus (bishop of Zaragoza)\n\nMaximus was the first Visigothic bishop of Zaragoza (Hispania) in 592–619. He was also a theologian and historian.\n\nHe succeeded Simplicius of Zaragoza as Bishop and was influential in the conversion of the Visigothic Kings to Catholicism.\nHe assisted at the Councils of Barcelona in 599 and Egara in 614, held the Second Council of Zaragoza, against Arianism, in 592, and signed a decree of Gundemar of 610.\n\nMaximus also contributed to the Visigothic cultural renaissance of the 6th and 7th centuries, which was continued by such scholars as Isidore of Seville, Eugenio of Toledo and Braulio of Zaragoza.\nIt has been theorized that he wrote the \"Chronicles of Zaragoza\", a history of that time surviving via a 16th-century manuscript copy, because Isidore of Seville notes that Maximus had written on history. However, and argue that the \"Chronicles\" were not the work of a single author.\n\nMaximus was succeeded in his see by John, brother of Braulio of Zaragoza, who was in turn succeeded by Braulio; see, e.g., .\n\n"}
{"id": "4925014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4925014", "title": "Michael D. Coe", "text": "Michael D. Coe\n\nMichael D. Coe (born 1929) is an American archaeologist, anthropologist, epigrapher and author. Primarily known for his research in the field of pre-Columbian Mesoamerican studies (and in particular, for his work on the Maya civilization, where he is regarded as one of the foremost Mayanist scholars of the latter 20th century), Coe has also made extensive investigations across a variety of other archaeological sites in North and South America. He has also specialised in comparative studies of ancient tropical forest civilizations, such as those of Central America and Southeast Asia. He currently (as of 2005) holds the chair of Charles J. MacCurdy Professor of Anthropology, Emeritus, Yale University, and is Curator Emeritus of the Anthropology collection in the Peabody Museum of Natural History, where he had been Curator from 1968 to 1994.\n\nDuring the Korean War, Coe worked as a CIA case officer; as a part of a front organization, Western Enterprises, in Taiwan; the CIA's efforts at the time were intended to counter influences and actions of Mao's China in Asia.\n\nHe has authored a number of popular works for the non-specialist audience, several of which have been best-selling and much reprinted, such as \"The Maya\" (1966) and \"Breaking the Maya Code\" (1992). He also co-authored the book \"Mexico: From the Olmecs to the Aztecs\" (1962, sixth edition, 2008) with Rex Koontz.\n\nCoe attended Fay School in Southborough, Massachusetts and St. Paul's School, Concord, New Hampshire. He graduated from Harvard College in 1950 and received his PhD in anthropology from the Harvard Graduate School of Arts & Sciences in 1959. Shortly after commencing his graduate studies program there, in 1955 he married the daughter of the noted evolutionary biologist and Russian émigré Theodosius Dobzhansky, Sophie, who was then an undergraduate anthropology student at Radcliffe College. Sophie translated from Russian, the work of epigrapher, Yuri Valentinovich Knorosov, \"The Writing of the Maya Indians\" (1967). Knorosov based his studies on De Landa's phonetic alphabet and is credited with originally breaking the Maya code.\n\nHis graduate advisor was Gordon Willey.\n\nCoe is considered, by most scholars of Mesoamerica and the Maya, to have done foundational work in three areas: 1) in his Harvard dissertation, at La Victoria, Guatemala, he established the first secure chronology of ceramics for southern Mesoamerica and which has served, almost without revision, to anchor chronologies elsewhere in Mesoamerica and the Maya world; 2) from his work (with Richard Diehl) at San Lorenzo Tenochtitlan, Veracruz, Mexico and employing the then new technology of magnetometry to locate and salvage most of the Olmec colossal heads now known, he greatly expanded knowledge of the Olmec civilization such that he is considered one of the discoverers of the Olmec; 3) against the very public rebukes of the then reigning doyen of Maya archaeology, J. E. S. Thompson, Coe championed Yuri Knorosov and the phonetic decipherment of Maya writing, and set about solving what was then the greatest research problem for the Maya, decipherment of Maya writing, along with his own fundamental discoveries, by stimulating and inspiring his Yale University students Peter Mathews and Karl Taube to great breakthroughs; another student, Stephen Houston, became co-author of many of the papers with them and with the greatest epigrapher of the day, David Stuart; Coe also provided insights and guidance to Floyd Lounsbury, noted anthropological linguist at Yale, and to the authors of the acclaimed \"The Blood of Kings\", a work about Classic Maya rulership, Mary Ellen Miller, at Yale, and Linda Schele, at the University of Texas at Austin, the latter who was also a central figure in Maya epigraphy for most of the 1970s and 1980s; Coe’s \"Breaking the Maya Code\" (1992), which was nominated for a National Book Award, relates the story.\n\nCoe was, also, the first to date El Baúl Stela 1 correctly (Coe 1957; cf. Parsons 1986:61); this sculpture from the Southern Maya Area (SMA) is one of three known with Cycle 7 Long Count dated monuments; since then, that it predated all Lowland Long-Count dated sculpture was not questioned. He also, with Kent Flannery, was the first to observe that the greatest southern area site, Kaminaljuyu, probably profited greatly from its proximity to and exploitation of the enormous El Chayal obsidian fields. Coe's own discovery of the Primary Standard Sequence, a sequence of hieroglyphs appearing around the rim of many Classic Maya ceramic vessels, and also of the fourth Maya codex still in existence, in themselves would have secured a place in the history of Maya research. Finally, his many insights, dropped casually to his students or written up in short reports, including that the Popol Vuh was but a fragment of a great lost pan-Maya mythology, and that Classic Maya rulers were shamanic figures as well as administrators, exemplify how he has been the singular leader of research in Mesoamerica and the Maya, and one of a handful of general figures in archaeology as a whole throughout the 1960s and even to today to rank with the founders of the discipline of anthropology. Considering everything, to many other scholars, researchers and students, such are his achievements that they warrant labeling the period from the 1960s almost until today as \"the Coe Epoch.\"\n\nIn addition to many seminal publications about Mesoamerica and the Maya, Coe contributed several key papers outside of his own specialized foci, including “The Churches on the Green,” which, during the height of the “New Archaeology,” succinctly pointed out how processualism failed. Indicative of the wide range and breadth of his intellect, his book on the Angkor civilization of ancient Cambodia, \"Angkor and the Khmer Civilization (Ancient Peoples and Places)\" (Thames and Hudson) is considered the best single volume on the subject, following up on an early comparative interest.\n\nCoe has added qualified support to the \"Cultura Madre\" view of the Olmec as the \"mother culture of Mesoamerican civilization\"; another issue, use of information obtainable from looted Maya ceramics, has brought criticism. Recently, some of Coe's work has come under scrutiny by two scholars of Pre-Columbian art. His work on, for example, the Cascajal Block and on the Wrestler, has been called into question. Other scholars dispute these claims and find them inadequately supported by evidence. The Cascajal block in particular is argued to have many features fully consistent with Olmec imagery, and the same has been said for the Wrestler. Nevertheless, such criticisms are based on what other scholars consider poorly or undefined notions of Olmec iconography and of rulership.\n\nDuring the course of his lengthy scientific career, Coe has been the recipient of a number of awards in recognition of his substantial contributions to the fields of archaeology and anthropology. These include:\n\n\nHe leads tours for Far Horizons Archaeological and Cultural trips\n"}
{"id": "56778691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56778691", "title": "Milan Bulajić", "text": "Milan Bulajić\n\nMilan Bulajić (; 6 September 1928 – 29 November 2009) was a Serbian historian, expert in Holocaust studies, and Yugoslavian diplomat. He was one of the founders of the and Fund for Genocide Research () in Belgrade, and .\n\nBulajić was born in Vilusi near Nikšić (now in Montenegro), the son of an educated worker and grandson of a \"barjaktar\" (flag-bearer) in the Montenegrin Army and later government deputy. He joined the Yugoslav Partisans at the start of World War II. He finished the Law Faculty in Belgrade in 1951 and received a master's degree at the journalist-diplomat school in 1952, as the best in class. He received the doctoral degree in 1953. In the period of 1949–1987 he worked as an envoy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He was pensioned in 1987.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45564275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45564275", "title": "Military democracy", "text": "Military democracy\n\nMilitary democracy is a term used to describe the war-based society of historical peoples. An example is Frederick Engels' characterization:\n\nAccording to Engels, the Greek Heroic Age was a typical example of military democracy. Lewis Henry Morgan spoke of two features: \"the military state of society, and the system of administration consisting of an elective and removable supreme chief, a council of elders and a popular assembly.\"\n"}
{"id": "5017482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5017482", "title": "Mississippi-in-Africa", "text": "Mississippi-in-Africa\n\nMississippi-in-Africa was a colony on the Pepper Coast (West Africa) founded in the 1830s by the Mississippi Colonization Society of the United States and settled by American free people of color, many of them former slaves. In the late 1840s, some 300 former slaves from Prospect Hill Plantation and other Isaac Ross properties in Jefferson County, Mississippi were the largest single group of emigrants to the new colony. Ross had freed the slaves in his will and provided for his plantation to be sold to pay for their transportation and initial costs.\n\nThese freedmen and other American immigrants to the colony and its neighbors, Liberia (which annexed Mississippi-in-Africa in 1842) and Republic of Maryland (which also merged with Liberia, in 1857) developed as the Americo-Liberians, an ethnic group who formed a political and economic elite. They dominated what became the independent country of Liberia into the late 20th century, having taken power over the indigenous natives. The Mississippi colony was located in what is present-day Sinoe County, Liberia.\n\nThe American Colonization Society was founded in the United States in 1817 as a joint project by abolitionists and slaveholders to establish a colony for free American blacks in West Africa. Slaveholders wanted to relocate free people of color out of the South, as they believed that free blacks threatened the stability of their slave societies. Some who supported eventual abolition of slavery believed that transporting freed slaves to Africa would give them a better opportunity to make their own communities. Disheartened by the discrimination faced by free blacks in the North, some abolitionists also supported the ACS, because they thought free blacks might be able to create a better society for themselves in Africa.\n\nMost free blacks did not want to emigrate; they considered the colonization plan to be a means to export them. They believed they had a native-born claim to the United States, were part of the society, and wanted to gain equal rights in their native land. Samuel Cornish and David Walker published \"Freedom's Journal\" in New York City, writing articles that opposed the colonization movement.\n\nIn the 1830s, major planters and slaveholders Stephen Duncan, Isaac Ross (1760-1838), Edward McGehee (1786-1880), John Ker (1789-1850), and educator Jemeriah Chamberlain (1794-1851), president of Oakland College, co-founded the Mississippi Colonization Society. Their goal was to relocate (repatriate) free blacks and newly freed slaves from their state to the developing colony of Liberia on the African continent. This Society bought a portion of land for the colony, which was known as Mississippi-in-Africa. They believed that free blacks threatened the stability of slave societies, and Mississippi's population had a majority of slaves, outnumbering whites by a three-to-one ratio.\n\nIsaac Ross provided for manumission of his slaves in his will, if they agreed to relocation to West Africa. His plantation was to be sold to provide funds for transportation and for supplies for the pioneer settlers. A grandson contested the will, but it was upheld by Mississippi's High Court of Errors and Appeals (since renamed the Supreme Court). In the late 1840s, approximately 300 African-American freedmen from Ross's Prospect Hill Plantation emigrated to Mississippi-in-Africa. They were the largest single group of American colonists to migrate to Liberia.\n\nRoss's grandson and heir Isaac Ross Wade contested the will through years of litigation, during which time he occupied the plantation. Wade was supposed to pay the freedmen for their labor. In 1847 the court ruled that the slaves, then technically free, could leave the United States. In 1848 the last group of Ross's freed slaves emigrated to the colony in West Africa. The passage to Africa was arranged by the Mississippi Colonization Society. It had purchased land on the Pepper Coast for a colony for freedmen from Mississippi. The late Ross was the first among its founders to have arranged for manumission of his slaves.\n\nThe freedmen developed a society in West Africa much like the one they had left but taking the dominant position in relation to indigenous natives. They built houses in the style of Southern mansions and established a hierarchical society with strong continuities to what they had known in the United States. They established plantations and battled local tribes for control of the territory, believing their American culture and Christianity made them superior. This settlement existed independently from 1835 until 1842, when it was incorporated into the Commonwealth of Liberia. In 1847 Liberia became independent of the American Colonization Society.\n\nJournalist Alan Huffman's history of the settlement explores its influence in contributing to more than a century of resentment between the majority of tribal peoples and the Americo-Liberians, descendants of the colonists who dominated the politics and economy of Liberia well into the 20th century. These groups have been on opposite sides of the civil war in Liberia since the 1980s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54577171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54577171", "title": "Newell G. Bringhurst", "text": "Newell G. Bringhurst\n\nNewell G. Bringhurst (born 3 April 1942) is an American historian and author of books and essays. Most of his writings have been about Mormonism— particularly topics and figures of controversy, such as blacks and the priesthood, Fawn Brodie, polygamy, and schisms within the LDS movement\n\nBringhurst taught history and political science for 35 years at the College of the Sequoias in Visalia, California, and is now a Professor Emeritus.\n\nBringhurst was born in Salt Lake City, Utah. He received a B.S. degree from the University of Utah in 1965, and completed his master's degree studies in 1967 with a thesis on George H. Dern.\n\nBringhurst became a history department lecturer at San Jose State University in 1972, where he taught for three years. He was awarded a Ph.D. in history from the University of California at Davis in 1975. He was hired the following year by Boise State University as an instructor of history. He joined the faculty at Indiana University at Kokomo as an assistant professor of history in 1977.\n\nBringhurst joined the Mormon History Association in 1972, and served as its president in 1999–2000. He was appointed as MHA Historian in 2002. He has been involved with The John Whitmer Historical Association since the mid-1970s, and served as its president from 2005–2006.\n\nBringhurst has been married since the mid-1970s, and has one daughter. He has expressed an enjoyment for hiking and other outdoor activities.\n\nBringhurst is described as a \"cultural Mormon and a liberal Democrat\".\n\nIn 2005, the John Whitmer Historical Association's Special Book Award was granted to Bringhurst and his co-editor Lavina Fielding Anderson for \"Excavating Mormon Pasts: The New Historiography of the Last Half Century\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5147203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5147203", "title": "Nīþ", "text": "Nīþ\n\nIn historical Germanic society, nīþ ( ; ); was a term for a social stigma implying the loss of honour and the status of a villain. A person affected with the stigma is a nīðing (/ᚾᛁᚦᛁᚴᛦ, , or ), one lower (\"cf.\" modern English \"beneath\", modern Dutch \"beneed\"/\"beneden\", modern German \"nieder\" and modern Danish and Swedish \"nedre\") than those around him.\nMiddle English retained a cognate \"nithe\", meaning \"envy\" (\"cf.\" modern Dutch \"nijd\" and modern German \"neid\"/\"neidvoll\"), \"hate\", or \"malice.\"\n\nA related term is \"ergi\", carrying the connotation of \"unmanliness\".\n\n\"Ergi\" and \"argr\" (Wendish 'inclosure') or \"ragr\" (Wendish 'entrance') can be regarded as specifying swearwords. \"Ergi\", \"argr\" and \"ragr\" were the severe insults made by calling someone a \"coward\", and due to its severity old Scandinavian laws demanded retribution for this accusation if it had turned out unjustified. The Icelandic Gray Goose Laws referred to three words that were regarded as equal to \"argr\" by themselves. Those were \"ragr\", \"strodinn\", and \"sordinn\", all three meaning the passive role of a man included in same-sex activities among males. Another semantic belonging to \"argr\", \"ragr\" and \"ergi\" was, from the \"Gray Goose\", \"being a sorcerer's friend.\"\n\nExamples from Old Scandinavian Laws: The \"Gulathing\" law referred to \"being a male bottom,\" \"being a slave,\" \"being a seiðmaðr,\" the \"Bergen/Island\" law referred to \"being a seiðmaðr,\" \"being a sorcerer and/or desiring same-sex activities as a [passive] male (\"kallar ragann\"),\" the \"Frostothing\" law to \"desiring male same-sex activities as a bottom.\"\nThus, it is apparent that \"ergi\" of a \"níðingr\" was strongly connoted not only with sorcery, unmanliness, weakness, and effeminacy but also especially with lecherousness or sexual perversion in the view of Old Scandinavian people during the Early and High Middle Ages. \"Ergi\" of females was considered as excessive lecherousness bordering raging madness, \"ergi\" of males as perversity, effeminacy and the passive role within same-sex intercourse between men, while an active role of a man, who had been included into same-sex intercourse, was not to be tanged by \"ergi\", \"ragr\", \"argr\" or \"níð\".\n\n\"Níðing\"s had to be \"scolded\", i. e. they had to be shouted in their faces what they were in most derogatory terms, as \"scolding\" (Anglo-Saxon \"scald\", Norse \"skald\", Icelandic \"skalda\", OHG \"scelta\", Modern German \"Schelte\"; compare \"scoff\", Modern Dutch \"schelden\", Anglo-Saxon \"scop\", and flyting) was supposed to break the concealing \"seiðr\" spell and would thus force the fiend to give away its true nature.The actual meaning of the adjective \"argr\" or \"ragr\" [Anglo-Saxon \"earg\"] was the nature or appearance of effeminacy, especially by obscene acts. \"Argr\" was the worst, most derogatory swearword of all known to the Norse language. According to Icelandic law, the accused was expected to kill the accuser at once.If the accused did not retort by violent attack, either right on the spot or by demanding \"holmgang\", yielding either the challenging accuser to take his words back or the accuser's death, he was hence proven to be a weak and cowardly \"níðingr\" by not retorting accordingly.\n\nBeside by words, \"scolding\" could also be performed by pejorative visual portrayals, especially by so-called \"níðstang\"s or \"nīþing poles\". These were usually single poles with a carved man's head, on which a horse or a horse's head was impaled. In two attested instances (\"Bjarnar saga Hítdælakappa\" ch. 17, \"Gísla saga Súrssonar\"), two \"níðstang\"s were arranged so as to suggest homosexual intercourse.\n\nA \"classical definition of \"ergi\" is found in the \"scoldings\" (see section below) of opposing warriors Gudmund and Sinfyötli in the \"New Helgi song\", offending each other as \"earg\" and thus challenging each other before a fight. Gudmund perjorates Sinfyötli in verse 36:\n\nand in following verses 37-39 Sinfyötli rebuts this:\nVerse 37<br>\n\"Walkury, an abhorrent<br>\n\"monster have you been<br>\n\"frightening, and \"earg\",<br>\n\"by Odin!<br>\n\"The Einherjars<br>\n\"fought in desire<br>\n\"about you<br>\n\"stubborn whore.\n\nVerse 38<br>\n\"Hag on Warinsey island<br>\n\"that was you<br>\n\"so insidiously<br>\n\"conjuring illusions.<br>\n\"You said that<br>\n\"the only warrior<br>\n\"you desired to marry<br>\n\"was I, Sinfyötli.<br>\n\nVerse 39<br>\n\"On saganes<br>\n\"you gave birth<br>\n\"to nine wolves<br>\n\"fathered by<br>\n\"Sinfyötli.\nIn accordance with these more detailed descriptions of what constituted \"ergi\" as appearing in the \"New Helgi song\", the \"Gulathing\" law referred to \"eacans\" swearwords further describing \"earg\" as \"being a mare,\" \"being a pregnant animal,\" \"being a bitch,\" \"having indecent intercourse with animals,\" the \"Bergen/Island\" law referred to \"biting another man,\" \"being a pregnant animal,\" the \"Frostothing\" law to \"being a female animal,\" the \"Uplandslag\" law to \"having sexual intercourse with an animal.\" It's worth to note that such activities where as being a \"a pregnant animal\" and having intercourse with animals are activities which are attributed to the god Loki in \"Lokasenna\" and \"Gylfaginning\".\n\nThe \"seiðr\" used prominently by \"níðing\"s was linguistically closely linked to botany and poisoning. Therefore, \"seiðr\" to a degree might have been regarded as identical to murder by poisoning. This Norse concept of poisoning based on magic was equally present in Roman law:\n\n[The] equality in Germanic and Roman law about equalling poisoning and magic was not created by influence of Roman laws upon Germanic people, even though an identical conception was indeed manifest in Roman law. This apparent likeness is probably based upon the shared original primitive conceptions about religion due to a shared Indo-European origin of both people.\n\n\"Níðing\" poisoning ties in with the legal Germanic differentiation of \"murder\" and \"killing\". Criminal murder differed from legitimate killing as by being performed in secret insidiously, away from the eyes of the community that had not been involved in the matter.\n\nSorcery [in Norse antiquity] equalled mysteriously utilizing evil forces, just as mysterious and abhorrent a crime as sexual deviancy. As for theft and murder, even more recent common Old Scandinavian belief still regarded them to be so closely associated to magical practices as to be entirely impossible without these latter. Those that were capable of breaking open heavy locks at night without being noticed by watchdogs nor waking up people had to be in command of supernatural abilities. Equally weird were those that were capable of murdering innocent lives. They were aided, guided, or coerced by an evil force to do their evil deeds.\n\nSince sorcery \"was not accepted officially, it could not serve the kinship as a whole, only private cravings; no decent person was safe from the secret arts of sorcerers,\" and as nīþ was insidiousness, a níðing was also thought to be a pathological liar and an oathbreaker, prone to committing perjury and especially treason. Summing up the relations between \"nīþ\" and criminality:\n\nSevere misdeeds were perjury deeds, especially if they had been committed insidiously and in secret. Such perpetrators were \"nithing\"s, despicable beings. Their perjury deeds included: Murder, theft, nightly arson, as well as any deeds that harmed the kinship's legally protected rights (treason, deserting to the enemy, deserting from the army, resisting to fight in a war, and perversion). [Furthermore these deeds included] any crimes offending the deities, such as breaking a special peace treaty (for example \"thing\" peace, armistice, security of the ceremony places and buildings, or a special festivity peace), trespass, defilement of graves, sorcery, finally all perjury deeds indicating moral degeneration, such as oathbreaking, perversion, acts of nasty cowardness [i. e. any acts] of moral degeneration.\n\nThis excessive mass of \"níðing\" associations might at first seem cumbersome and without any recognizable pattern. However the pattern behind it is outlined in the following sections.\n\nThe immediate consequence of being proven a \"níðing\" was outlawing the exile. (see for example)\n\nThe outlawed did not have any rights, he was \"exlex\" (Latin for \"outside of the legal system\"), in Anglo-Saxon \"utlah\", Middle Low German \"uutlagh\", Old Norse \"utlagr\". Just as feud yielded enmity among kinships, outlawry yielded enmity of all humanity.\n\n\"Nobody is allowed to protect, house, or feed the outlaw. He must seek shelter alone in the woods just like a wolf.\" \"Yet that is but one aspect of outlawry. The outlaw is not only expelled from the kinship, he is also regarded henceforth as an enemy to mankind.\"\n\nAncient dehumanizing terms meaning both \"wolf\" and \"strangler\" were common as synonyms for outlaws: OHG \"warc\", Salian \"wargus\", Anglo-Saxon \"wearg\", Old Norse \"vargr\".\n\nOutlaws were regarded as physically and legally dead, their spouse was seen as widow or widower and their children as orphans, their fortune and belongings were either seized by the kinship or destroyed. \"It was every man's duty to capture the outlaw and [...] kill him.\"\n\n\"Níðing\"s were considered to re-enter their bodies after death by their \"seiðr\" magic and even their dead bodies themselves were regarded as highly poisonous and contagious. To prevent them from coming back as the undead, their bodies had to be made entirely immobile, especially by impaling, burning up, drowning in rivers or bogs (see also Tacitus), or even all of the above. \"Not any measure to this end was considered too awkward.\"\n\nIt could be better to fixate the haunting evil's body by placing large rocks on it, impaling it [..]. Often enough, people saw their efforts had been in vain, so they mounted destruction upon destruction on the individual fiend, maybe starting by beheading, then entirely burning up its body, and finally leaving its ashes in streaming water, hoping to absolutely annihilate the evil, incorporeal spirit itself.\n\nIt was believed that the reason for a \"nīþing\" to resort to insidious \"seiðr\" \"witchery\" in order to cause harm instead of simply attacking people by decent, belligerent violence to achieve the same end was that it was a cowardly and weak creature, further indicating its being direct opposite of Old Norse warrior ethos. \"Earg\" is often but translated as \"cowardly, weak\". By definition, any \"seiðberender\" (practitioner of \"seiðr\") was immediately rendered \"argr\" by these very despicable magic practices.\n\nNīþ did not only motivate practicing \"seiðr\" but was regarded the most likely motivation of all for practicing \"seid\". The nīþing used its malicious \"seiðr\" magic to destroy anything owned and made by man, ultimately the human race and \"Midgard\" itself.\nSince primitive societies exclusively attributed their fear of evil sorcerers [i.e., \"seiðmaðr\"] to the sorcerer's motivating envy, all Indo-Germanic proverbs on the matter indicate that passive envy easily turns into aggressive crimes. He who envies is not satisfied to passively wait for his neighbours to run into accidents by coincidence to secretly gloat over them (while his gloating habits are widely accepted as a fact), he makes sure that they will live in misery or worse. […] Envy brings death, envy seeks evil ways.\nHence, the nīþing was regarded as a mythological fiend \"that only exists to cause harm and bring certain undoing.\" Harboring a nīþ was regarded as destroying the \"individual qualities that constituted man and genetical relation,\" making deviant, perverse, and ill instead so that this fiend was considered the direct opposite of decent man and its [nīþ] as contagious.\n[Nīþings] were aided, guided, or coerced by an evil force to do their evil deeds. Hence, a \"nithing\" was not only degenerated in a general [moral] sense [...] it had originally been a human being of evil, fiendish nature that had either sought evil deliberately or had been taken into possession by evil forces unwillingly.\n\n\"Nithings\" were thought to be suffering of physical ailments and were associated with crippledness. Most notably were limping as an outer indication of being a \"nithing\" (such as in the story of Rögnvald Straightleg whose last name was in fact but an ironic offence as his legs were actually crippled), and the belief that sorcerers would not only give birth to animals but also to crippled human children.\n\nThese physical afflictions were regarded as furthermore supporting weakness of a \"nithing\". It was often hard to distinguish these attributes from actual physical illness, and since \"any eeriness and incomprehensibility was what made people suspect a person of being a \"nithing\", whether this was based upon physical anomalies or mental traits\", they were often regarded as \"mentally ill\" even during ancient times already, as defined by actually or perceivedly deviant social behaviour and feeling.\n\n\"Nithings\" sometimes practiced \"seid\" in female clothes regardless of their biological sex, and they were considered to lose their physical biological sex by that act if they had been male before. More recent dialect forms of \"seid\" linguistically link it to \"female sex organs.\" Also, there exists (or existed) evidence on the Golden horns of Gallehus that male initiates of \"seid\" were ritually castrated.\n\nAccording \"eacans\" in the \"Gulathing\" law were \"having born children as a male,\" \"being a male whore,\" while the \"Gray Goose\" referred to \"being a woman each ninth night,\" and \"having born children as a male.\"\n\nAlthough no runic inscription uses the terms \"níð\" or \"níðingr\", several Viking Age runestones use the term \"oníðingr\", which with the \"o-\" prefix means the opposite of \"níðingr\", to describe a man as being virtuous. Rundata translates this term as \"unvillainous.\" This term is used as a descriptive term on runestones Ög 77 in Hovgården, Sö 189 in Åkerby, Sm 5 in Transjö, Sm 37 in Rörbro, Sm 147 in Vasta Ed, and DR 68 in Århus, and appears as a name or part of a name on inscriptions Ög 217 in Oppeby, Sm 2 in Aringsås, and Sm 131 in Hjortholmen. The same alliterative Old Norse phrase, \"manna mæstr oniðing\", which is translated as \"the most unvillainous of men,\" appears on Ög 77, Sm 5, and Sm 37, and DR 68 uses a variant of this phrase.\n\n"}
{"id": "29609505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29609505", "title": "Olaf Mertelsmann", "text": "Olaf Mertelsmann\n\nOlaf Mertelsmann (born 15 January 1969) is a German historian and a professor at the University of Tartu. Dr. Mertelsmann's primary interest is the history of the Soviet Union, with concentration on post-war period. He has been living in Estonia since 1994.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8878177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8878177", "title": "Omohundro Institute of Early American History and Culture", "text": "Omohundro Institute of Early American History and Culture\n\nThe Omohundro Institute of Early American History and Culture (OI) is the oldest organization in the United States exclusively dedicated to advancing the study, research, and publication of scholarship bearing on the history and culture of early America, broadly construed, from circa 1450 to 1820. Their scope of inquiry includes North America and related histories of the Caribbean, Latin America, Europe, and Africa. Since 1943 the Institute has published the \"William and Mary Quarterly\" and books, and sponsored conferences and fellowships.\n\nThe College of William & Mary and the Colonial Williamsburg Foundation founded the Institute of Early American History and Culture in 1943. The College continues to jointly sponsor its work. In 1996, the name Omohundro was added to the Institute’s name in recognition of a generous gift from the late Mr. and Mrs. Malvern H. Omohundro, Jr.\n\nThe Institute publishes a select number of books each year on topics pertaining to the histories and cultures of North America from circa 1450 to 1820, including related developments in the British Isles, Europe, West Africa, and the Caribbean. Since the first book appeared in print in 1947, the OI has published 233 titles, which have won a total of 174 awards.\n\nThe Institute partners with the University of North Carolina Press in publishing its titles, and UNC Press also distributes the OI's books.\n\nThe \"William and Mary Quarterly\" is an academic journal with a focus on early American history and culture. It ranges chronologically from Old World-New World contacts to about 1820. Geographically, it focuses on North America from New France and the Spanish-American borderlands to British America and the Caribbean and extends to Europe and West Africa. Although grounded in history, it welcomes works from all disciplines (for example, literature, law, political science, anthropology, archaeology, material culture, cultural studies) bearing on the early American period. Currently in its Third Series, the \"Quarterly\" is published in January, April, July, and October. The journal originated in 1892, making it one of the oldest scholarly journals in the United States.\n\nIn addition to a regular blog (\"Uncommon Sense),\" the OI maintains both an online feed of blogs about early American scholarship and (\"Early America Online\" aka \"\"The Octo\"),\" an up-to-date listing of conferences and events of interest to the Early Americanist community (\"The Map)\" and a current listing of fellowships and grants available for research in the field (\"The List).\"\n\nThe OI also publishes the \"OI Reader\", which features a digital edition of the \"William and Mary Quarterly\" as well as additional digital projects.\n\nAll OI fellowship applicants are evaluated by outside committees of scholars who volunteer their time and expertise. The following scholarships are offered:\n\n\nMost OI events are open to the public; costs to the participant vary.\n\nThe OI offers an annual conference in June each year. The location varies each year in order to accommodate a wide range of scholars. Panels and papers are chosen by an external committee. The committee typically represents a large variety of institutions and disciplines and is formed by members from the host institution. Graduate students, junior, mid-career and senior scholars are all invited to submit proposals via a Call for Papers; all levels of career achievement are likewise represented on the final program.\n\nThe OI also typically offers one topically-themed conference each year, usually in the fall. The location varies. An organizing theme or topic is proposed by a group of scholars who then form a program committee and issue a Call for Papers. The number of papers and panels offered is typically smaller than at the annual conference, likewise the overall number of participants.\n\nTHis Camp (or That History Camp) sessions are now offered at every OI conference. The goal of the sessions is to teach participants one software of particular use to historians at a Beginner's level.\n\nMax Edelson, University of Virginia, taught the first THis Camp in October 2015 at the \"Emerging Histories of the Early Modern French Atlantic\" (topical) conference. By the end of the session, participants were able to use the popular Map Scholar software to annotate maps and begin their own digital atlases.\n\nEach May, the \"William and Mary Quarterly\" in conjunction with the Early Modern Studies Institute at the University of Southern California conducts a workshop designed to identify and encourage new trends in our understanding of the history and culture of early North America. The participants are primarily mature scholars working on second or subsequent book projects; they share their work in progress with the aim of deepening and enriching their perspectives, their approaches, and ultimately the final products of their research.\n\nThe OI’s colloquium meets four or five times a semester to discuss projects (usually a book chapter) in progress. The Institute offers overnight accommodations and up to $300 for travel for those chosen to present their work.\n\n"}
{"id": "17555728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17555728", "title": "Pan Tianshou", "text": "Pan Tianshou\n\nPan Tianshou (; 1897–1971) was a Chinese painter and art educator.\n\nPan was born in Guanzhuang, Ninghai County, Zhejiang Province, and graduated from Zhejiang First Normal School (now Hangzhou High School). He studied Chinese traditional painting with Wu Changshuo, and built the foundation of Chinese traditional painting education. He was persecuted during the Cultural Revolution until his death in 1971.\n\nOn March 14, 1897 (lunar calendar February 12), he was born in Guanzhuang Village, Ninghai County, Zhejiang Province. His birth name was Pan Tianjin (天谨) and courtesy name Tianshou (天授).\n\nIn 1903, his mother died. In summer, he was enrolled in private school in the village. Beside taking classes, he liked calligraphy, and also enjoyed imitating illustrations on novels such as the \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\" and the \"Water Margin\".\n\nIn Spring 1910, he entered Zhengxue Primary School in town, and received western school education. After class, he was interested in calligraphy, painting and stamp carving. He brought \"Jieziyuan Painting Album\" (芥子园画谱) and several albums of models of calligraphy. Those were enlightening materials for him to self-study Chinese painting and calligraphy, and he thus was determined to devote his whole life to Chinese painting.\n\nIn Autumn 1915, he was enrolled into Zhejiang First Normal School in Hangzhou with excellent grades.\n\nIn 1918, he was on 4th grade at school, and drew \"Loquats\" (枇杷图) for fellow students.\n\nIn 1919, he drew \"Chinese Bulbul on Wisteria\" (紫藤白头翁) and other paintings for fellow students. In that year, he participated in \"May 4th\" patriotic students gathering in Hangzhou. Around 1919 to 1920, he met Liu Haisu for first time in Jingjia Hill, Hangzhou.\n\nIn Spring 1920, he participated in advanced students uprising at Zhejiang First Normal School. In leisure time, he dedicatedly studies painting, calligraphy, poems and stamp carving. He drew \"Desolate Crow in Sparse Forest\" (疏林寒鸦) and \"Forlorn Bell Rings among Mountains at Night\"(晚山疏钟) for Zhao Pingfu (Rou Shi).\n\nIn 1921, he habitually imitated ancient folk calligraphy and paintings, and studies painting theory. He drew \"Bright Moon above Wisteria\" (紫藤明月), \"Mynah in Snow\" (雪景八哥) etc.\n\nIn Summer, he graduated and went back to Ninghai to teach at Zhengxue Primary School. In Spring 1922, he moved to teach at the primary school in Xiaofeng County (now Anji County), Zhejiang. Together with Shen Suizhen (沈遂贞), he held an exhibition in Yizi Pavilion, Xiaofeng County. There were finger-ink painting among his works. He drew \"Lonely Crow on Aged Tree\" (古木寒鸦), \"Pristine Water in Breeze\" (长风白水), \"Jigong Monk and Elephant\" (济公与象), \"Bald Monk\" (秃头僧), etc.\n\nIn Spring 1923, he became a teacher at Republic of China female workers school in Shanghai. In that Summer, he was also appointed as a lecturer in painting practice and theory classes in department of Chinese painting at Shanghai Academy of Fine Arts. He got to know Wu Changshuo, Wang Yiting, Huang Binhong, Wu Fuzhi, and Zhu Qizhan. His style approached Wu Changshuo, evolving from unrestrained to profound. He drew \"Flowers Wet with Dew in Autumn\" (秋华湿露). He changed his name to \"Tianshou\" (天寿).\n\nIn 1924, he became a professor at Shanghai Academy of Fine Arts, started writing the book \"The History of Chinese Painting\". He was actively engaged in a variety of exhibitions, studying preserved ancient paintings and meeting with noted painters. He specialized in liberal-style flowers and birds painting, and also excelled in landscape painting. He drew \"The Beggar\" (行乞图), \"Horse Fastened on Poplar\" (垂杨系马), and \"Fox Servant at New Year Eve\" (狸奴守岁).\n\nIn January 1925, he completed \"History of Chinese Painting\" in Shanghai, and wrote preface of the book in Hangzhou in February. On June 20, he co-sponsored an advertisement on \"Sheng Newspaper\" with Liu Haisu, Zhu Wenyun and other professors, and held a charity sale exhibition for workers and citizens deceased in May 30 Riot. He drew \"Mountains at Dawn\" (晴峦晓色), \"Soothing Spring Breeze\" (春风淡荡), \"Aged Plum Blossoms\" (古梅), etc.\n\nIn July 1926, his \"History of Chinese Painting\" was published by Commercial Press. In Winter, together with Yu Jifan and Pan Booying, he co-founded Shanghai Xinhua School of Fine Arts.\n\nIn Spring 1927, Xinhua School enrolled first-year class, and Pan became the chief professor in Education Department.\n\nPan was appointed director of the National Academy (Zhejiang Academy of Fine Arts) by the Kuomintang Minister of Culture Chen Lifu in 1945. Two years later, he lost his appointment to Wang Rizhang, who was more acceptable to the Guomindang. Despite this professional disappointment, Pan took up his painting with renewed energy, making breakthrough works that fused modern and traditional idioms. In the era of People's Republic, he was again appointed the head of the academy in 1957 which lasted until 1966.\n\nDuring the Cultural Revolution, Pan was taken by the Red Guards on 6 September 1966, and paraded the next day on the streets of Hangzhou with more than thirty of his colleagues in dunce caps to be publicly humiliated. For five years, he was regularly taken to public rallies to be criticized and renounced. He was also falsely accused of being a Kuomintang spy, after which the persecution became more intense and he was paraded in the other towns as well. He died in a hospital in Hangzhou on 5 September 1971.\n\n"}
{"id": "11668043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11668043", "title": "Paul Bairoch", "text": "Paul Bairoch\n\nPaul Bairoch (24 July 1930 in Antwerp – 12 February 1999 in Geneva) was one of the great post-war economic historians who specialised in global economic history, urban history and historical demography. He published or co-authored more than two dozen books and 120 scholarly articles.\n\nHis son is a Swiss bioinformatician Amos Bairoch.\n\nBairoch gained a bachelor's degree by correspondence, intending to become an engineer but he turned to studying economic history in 1956 at the parisian Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes. He obtained his doctorate in 1963 at the Free University of Brussels where he worked from 1965 to 1995. He was economic adviser to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) at Geneva from 1967 to 1969, professor at the Sir George Williams University (Concordia) in Montréal from 1969 to 1971 and on recommendation of Fernand Braudel became director of studies at the Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes from 1971 to 1972. In 1972 he was made professor of history at the University of Geneva. He retired in 1995. He was also visiting professor at Harvard and at the Collège de France (1983) and Doctor honoris causa at the ETH Zurich. From 1985, Bairoch directed a number of research projects on the world economy at a Centre for International Economic History in Geneva.\n\nPaul Bairoch sought through quantitative, empirical research of historical trends to question and challenge many beliefs which are nowadays generally accepted in economics (see in particular his work \"Economics and World History: Myths and Paradoxes\"), among which: the idea that free trade historically led to periods of economic growth; that moving away from free trade caused the Great Depression; and that colonial powers in the 19th and early 20th centuries became rich by exploiting the Third World.\n\nBairoch argued that such beliefs are based on insufficient knowledge and misguided interpretations of the economic history of the United States, Europe and the Third World. He researched extensively the reasons why an industrial takeoff was prevented in the colonised countries of the Third World (see e.g. his book \"Révolution industrielle et sous-développement\"). He is particularly known for his detailed empirical research on economic problems of Third World countries, on the industrial revolution and its aftermath and on urban history. His historical estimates of Gross Product measures are still being referred to in the literature, although some are also challenged by other economic historians such as Angus Maddison.\n\nBairoch argues that free trade contributed to deindustrialization in the Ottoman Empire. In contrast to the protectionism of China, Japan, and Spain, the Ottoman Empire had a liberal trade policy, open to foreign imports. This has origins in capitulations of the Ottoman Empire, dating back to the first commercial treaties signed with France in 1536 and taken further with capitulations in 1673 and 1740, which lowered duties to 3% for imports and exports. The liberal Ottoman policies were praised by British economists such as J. R. McCulloch in his \"Dictionary of Commerce\" (1834), but later criticized by British politicians such as Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli, who cited the Ottoman Empire as \"an instance of the injury done by unrestrained competition\" in the 1846 Corn Laws debate:\n\nPaul Bairoch referred here to colonialism and to the exploitation of the third world in the 19th and early 20th century. He argued that this exploitation was not indispensable for industrialisation. This he thought is \"good news\" for the third world because it means that development could occur without exploitation of other regions.\n\n\n\n\n\nPaul Bairoch Library \n"}
{"id": "38481309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38481309", "title": "Philippa Langley", "text": "Philippa Langley\n\nPhilippa Jayne Langley, MBE (born 29 June 1962) is a Scottish screenwriter and historian who is best known for her contribution to the exhumation of Richard III in 2012. \n\nLangley is the President of the Scottish branch of the Richard III Society. She attributes the discovery to a feeling she had when first visiting the northern end of the Social Services car park where the king was later found, having gone to Leicester for the purpose of finding out more about the historical figure for a screenplay she was writing; other members of the Richard III Society had suggested the three central car parks location as long ago as 1975 but an oversight in footnoting gave no evidence for it. According to Langley, \"the first time I stood in that car park, the strangest feeling just washed over me. I thought: 'I am standing on Richard's grave'.\" She proceeded to fundraise, organise and commission the excavation of the site, leading to the eventual discovery of Richard III's remains. She later contributed to a documentary about the project, titled \"Richard III: The King in the Car Park\" based on her original \"Looking For Richard Project.\"\n\nShe is co-author, with Michael K. Jones, of \"The King's Grave: The Search for Richard III\" (US title: \"The King`s Grave: The Discovery of Richard III’s Lost Burial Place and the Clues It Holds\"). In 2013 Langley was working on the screenplay for a proposed film on the life of Richard III, in which she hoped Richard would be portrayed by English actor Richard Armitage, who was himself named after the king.\n\nIn July 2017 Langley objected to a plan to stage Shakespeare's play \"Richard III\" at Leicester Cathedral, on the basis that it was contrary to the undertaking by the Dean of Leicester, made in March 2015, that the king would be reburied in the Cathedral \"with all dignity and honour\". The play was staged in sold-out performances at the cathedral on 19 and 20 July.\n\nIn 2014, Langley detailed the years of research behind the Looking For Richard Project that got her to the northern end of the car park in Leicester in search of the church and grave in Finding Richard III: The Official Account of Research by the Retrieval & Reburial Project. The co-authored work includes chapters from Looking For Richard Project members, Dr. John Ashdown-Hill and Drs David and Wendy Johnson and is edited by Annette Carson.\n\nIn March 2015, she backed a project to locate the remains of Henry I of England, who was buried at Reading Abbey which later fell into ruin.\n\nLangley was awarded an MBE in 2015 for \"services to the exhumation and identification of Richard III\".\n\n"}
{"id": "27438691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27438691", "title": "Samuel Taylor (stenographer)", "text": "Samuel Taylor (stenographer)\n\nSamuel Taylor (1748/49 – 1811) was the British inventor of a widely used system of stenography.\n\nHe began working on his own method of stenography in 1773, based on earlier efforts. In 1786, he published \"An essay intended to establish à standard for an universal system of Stenography, or Short-hand writing\", the first shorthand system to be used all over the English-speaking world. His stenographic method consisted in cutting out the superfluous consonants as well as the vowels in polysyllabic words. It used an alphabet composed of 19 letters of simplified shapes.\n\nHe taught stenography at Oxford as well as the universities of Scotland and Ireland for many years.\n\nHis system was adopted for several other languages, including French, German, Spanish, Italian, and Swedish. His book was translated and published in France by Théodore-Pierre Bertin in 1792 under the title \"Système universel et complet de Stenographie ou Manière abrégée d'écrire applicable à tous les idiomes\".\n\nHe also published a book on angling in 1800, titled \"Angling in All Its Branches\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20586710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20586710", "title": "Shadi Bartsch", "text": "Shadi Bartsch\n\nShadi Bartsch (born March 17, 1966) is an American academic and is the Helen A. Regenstein Distinguished Service Professor of Classics at the University of Chicago. She has previously held professorships at the University of California Berkeley and Brown University where she was the W. Duncan MacMillan II Professor of Classics in 2008-2009.\n\nBartsch is the daughter of a UN economist and spent her childhood in London, Geneva, Tehran, Jakarta, and the Fiji Islands. She earned a B.A. summa cum laude from Princeton University in 1987 and both her M.A. and Ph.D. (1992) from the University of California-Berkeley in Latin and classics, respectively. She is married to Robert Zimmer.\n\nBartsch has contributed to classical scholarship, more specifically in the areas of the literature and culture of Julio-Claudian Rome, the ancient novel, Roman stoicism, and the classical tradition. She was awarded the Quantrell Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching in the College in 2000 and the Faculty Award for Excellence in Graduate Teaching in 2006 at the University of Chicago. She was awarded an ACLS Fellowship in 1999 and a Guggenheim Fellowship in 2007. Bartsch also served as Chair of the Faculty Board of the University of Chicago Press from 2006-2008 and Editor-in-Chief of \"Classical Philology\" from 2000-2004 and 2014 onwards. She has been appointed the Inaugural Director of the Stevanovich Institute on the Formation of Knowledge and is currently the lead editor of the journal \"KNOW: A Journal on the Formation of Knowledge.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31830757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31830757", "title": "Shangjing Longquanfu", "text": "Shangjing Longquanfu\n\nShangjing Longquanfu () or Sanggyeong Yongcheonbu (), also known as Shangjing/Sanggyeong (上京, 상경), Huhan/Holhan Fortress (忽汗城, 홀한성), is an archaeological site in Ning'an, Heilongjiang, China. It was the capital of the Balhae (Bohai) Kingdom in 756–785 and 793–926.\n\nThe site is located in about from the modern town of Dongjingcheng (东京城), and the ruined city is also colloquially called \"Dongjingcheng\". The site has been protected since the 1960s. The Chinese government has established the Bohai Shangjing National Archaeological Park and an archaeological museum at the site.\n\nShangjing was modelled after Chang'an, capital of the Chinese Tang dynasty. It was about one fifth of the size of Chang'an, measuring from east to west, and from north to south. It was composed of the outer city, the inner city, and the palace city which enclosed five palaces. It is one of the best preserved medieval capital cities in the world.\n\nBalhae was founded at the Dongmo Mountain by Dae Jo-yeong. However, Balhae set up five capitals to rule its territories, and also transferred the main seat of the government several times because stabilizing and strengthening central rule over various ethnic tribes in its realm, which was expanded temporarily. In 756, during the reign of King Mun, Shangjing Longquanfu was established as the permanent capital near Lake Jingpo, south of today's Ning'an, Heilongjiang, China.\n\n"}
{"id": "44398243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44398243", "title": "Silla monarchs family tree", "text": "Silla monarchs family tree\n\nSilla (57 BC – 935 CE) was one of the Three Kingdoms of Korea. In the early years, Silla was ruled by the Pak, Seok, and Kim families. Rulers of Silla had various titles, including \"Isageum, Maripgan, and Daewang\". Like some Baekje kings, some declared themselves emperor.\n\n"}
{"id": "30269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30269", "title": "The Hague", "text": "The Hague\n\nThe Hague (; , , short for \"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s-⁠Gravenhage\" ) is a city on the western coast of the Netherlands and the capital of the province of South Holland. It is also the seat of government of the Netherlands.\n\nWith a metropolitan population of more than 1 million, it is the third-largest city in the Netherlands, after Amsterdam and Rotterdam. The Rotterdam–The Hague metropolitan area, with a population of approximately 2.7 million, is the 13th-largest in the European Union and the most populous in the country. Located in the west of the Netherlands, The Hague is in the centre of the Haaglanden conurbation and lies at the southwest corner of the larger Randstad conurbation.\n\nThe Hague is the seat of the Cabinet, the States General, the Supreme Court, and the Council of State of the Netherlands, but the city is not the constitutional capital of the Netherlands, which is Amsterdam. King Willem-Alexander lives in Huis ten Bosch and works at the Noordeinde Palace in The Hague, together with Queen Máxima. The Hague is also home to the world headquarters of Royal Dutch Shell and other Dutch companies.\n\nMost foreign embassies in the Netherlands and 150 international organisations are located in the city, including the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Court, which makes The Hague one of the major cities hosting a United Nations institution along with New York City, Geneva, Vienna, Rome and Nairobi. Due to these reasons, The Hague is largely known as the home of international law and arbitration.\n\nThe Hague was first mentioned as \"Die Haghe\" in 1242. In the 15th century, the name \"des Graven hage\" came into use, literally \"The Count's Wood\", with connotations like \"The Count's Hedge, Private Enclosure or Hunting Grounds\". \"Gravenhage\" was officially used for the city from the 17th century onward. Today, this name is only used in some official documents like birth and marriage certificates. The city itself uses \"Den Haag\" in all its communications.\n\nLittle is known about the origin of The Hague. There are no contemporary documents describing it, and later sources are often of dubious reliability. What is certain is that The Hague was founded by the last counts of the House of Holland. Floris IV already owned two residences in the area, but presumably purchased a third court situated by the present-day Hofvijver in 1229, previously owned by a woman called Meilendis. Presumably, Floris IV intended to rebuild the court into a large castle, but he died in a tournament in 1234, before anything was built. His son and successor William II lived in the court, and after he was elected King of the Romans in 1248, he promptly returned to The Hague, and had builders turn the court into a \"royal palace\" (\"regale palacium\"), which would later be called the Binnenhof (\"Inner Court\"). He died in 1256 before this palace was completed but parts of it were finished during the reign of his son Floris V, of which the Ridderzaal (\"Knights' Hall\"), still intact, is the most prominent. It is still used for political events, such as the annual speech from the throne by the Dutch monarch. From the 13th century onward, the counts of Holland used The Hague as their administrative center and residence when in Holland.\n\nThe village that originated around the Binnenhof was first mentioned as \"Die Haghe\" in a charter dating from 1242. It became the primary residence of the Counts of Holland in 1358, and thus became the seat of many government institutions. This status allowed the village to grow; by the Late Middle Ages, it had grown to the size of a city, although it did not receive city rights. In its early years, the village was located in the \"ambacht\", or rural district, of Monster, which was governed by the Lord of Monster. Seeking to exercise more direct control over the village, however, the Count split the village off and created a separate \"ambacht\" called Haagambacht, governed directly by the Counts of Holland. The territory of Haagambacht was considerably expanded during the reign of Floris V.\n\nWhen the House of Burgundy inherited the counties of Holland and Zeeland in 1432, they appointed a stadtholder to rule in their stead with the States of Holland and West Friesland as an advisory council. Although their seat was located in The Hague, the city became subordinate to more important centres of government such as Brussels and Mechelen, from where the sovereigns ruled over the increasingly centralised Burgundian Netherlands.\n\nAt the beginning of the Eighty Years' War, the absence of city walls proved disastrous, as it allowed Spanish troops to easily occupy the town. In 1575, the States of Holland, temporarily based in Delft, even considered demolishing the city but this proposal was abandoned, after mediation by William the Silent. In 1588, The Hague became the permanent seat of the States of Holland as well as the States General of the Dutch Republic. In order for the administration to maintain control over city matters, The Hague never received official city status, although it did have many of the privileges normally granted only to cities. In modern administrative law, \"city rights\" have no place anymore.\n\nOnly in 1806, when the Kingdom of Holland was a puppet state of the First French Empire, was the settlement granted city rights by Louis Bonaparte. After the Napoleonic Wars, modern-day Belgium and the Netherlands were combined in the United Kingdom of the Netherlands to form a buffer against France. As a compromise, Brussels and Amsterdam alternated as capital every two years, with the government remaining in The Hague. After the separation of Belgium in 1830, Amsterdam remained the capital of the Netherlands, while the government was situated in The Hague. When the government started to play a more prominent role in Dutch society after 1850, The Hague quickly expanded. Many streets were specifically built for the large number of civil servants employed in the country's government and for the Dutchmen who were retiring from the administration of the Netherlands East Indies. The growing city annexed the rural municipality of Loosduinen partly in 1903 and completely in 1923.\n\nThe city sustained heavy damage during World War II. Many Jews were killed during the German occupation. Additionally, the Atlantic Wall was built through the city, causing a large quarter to be torn down by the Nazi occupants. On 3 March 1945, the Royal Air Force mistakenly bombed the Bezuidenhout quarter. The target was an installation of V-2 rockets in the nearby Haagse Bos park, but because of navigational errors, the bombs fell on a heavily populated and historic part of the city. The bombardment wreaked widespread destruction in the area and caused 511 fatalities.\n\nAfter the war, The Hague became at one time the largest building site in Europe. The city expanded massively to the south-west, and the destroyed areas were quickly rebuilt. The population peaked at 600,000 inhabitants around 1965. In the 1970s and 1980s, mostly white middle-class families moved to neighbouring towns like Voorburg, Leidschendam, Rijswijk and, most of all, Zoetermeer. This led to the traditional pattern of an impoverished inner city and more prosperous suburbs. Attempts to include parts of these municipalities in the city of The Hague were highly controversial. In the 1990s, with the consent of the Dutch Parliament, The Hague annexed fairly large areas from neighbouring towns as well as from not even bordering ones, on which the complete new residential areas were built and are still being built.\n\nThe Hague is the largest Dutch city on the North Sea in the Netherlands and forms the centre of a conurbation called Haaglanden. Westland and Wateringen lie to the south, Rijswijk, Delft and the Rotterdam conurbation (called \"Stadsregio Rotterdam\" or \"Rijnmond\") to the southeast, Pijnacker-Nootdorp and Zoetermeer to the east, Leidschendam-Voorburg, Voorschoten and the Leiden conurbation to the northeast and Wassenaar to the north.\n\nThe conurbations around The Hague and Rotterdam are close enough to be a single conurbation in some contexts. For example, they share the Rotterdam The Hague Airport and a light rail system called RandstadRail. Consideration is being given to creating a Rotterdam-The Hague metropolitan area. This large conurbation centred on The Hague and Rotterdam is, in turn, part of the Randstad—specifically a band of municipalities called the South Wing (Zuidvleugel). The Randstad, which also includes among others Amsterdam and Utrecht, has a population of 6,659,300. The Hague lies at the southwestern corner of one of the largest urban areas in Europe.\n\nThe Hague is divided into eight official districts which are, in turn, divided into neighbourhoods. Some of the most prosperous and some of the poorest neighbourhoods of the Netherlands can be found in The Hague. The wealthier areas like Statenkwartier, Belgisch Park, Marlot, Benoordenhout and Archipelbuurt are generally located in the northwestern part of the city, closer to the sea, whereas the southeastern neighbourhoods like Transvaal, Moerwijk, and the Schilderswijk are significantly poorer, with the exception of the Vinex-locations of Leidschenveen-Ypenburg and Wateringse Veld. This division is reflected in the local accent: The more affluent citizens are usually called \"Hagenaars\" and speak so-called \"bekakt Haags\" (\"posh\"), this contrasts with the \"Hagenezen\", who speak \"plat Haags\" (\"vulgar\"); see Demographics below.\n\nThe districts are:\n\nThe Hague experiences a temperate oceanic climate (Köppen: \"Cfb\") similar to almost all of the Netherlands. Because of its location on the coast, it experiences milder winters and cooler summers than more inland locations. It also gets more sunshine.\n\nCity life concentrates around the Hofvijver and the Binnenhof, where the States General of the Netherlands are located. Because of its history, the historical inner city of The Hague differs in various aspects from the nearby smaller cities of Leiden and Delft. It does not have a cramped inner city, bordered by canals and walls. Instead, it has some small streets in the town centre that may be dated from the late Middle Ages and several spacious streets boasting large and luxurious 18th-century residences built for diplomats and affluent Dutch families. It has a large church dating from the 15th century, an impressive City Hall (built as such) from the 16th century, several large 17th-century palaces, a 17th-century Protestant church built in what was then a modern style, and many important 18th-century buildings.\n\nThe city is becoming more student friendly with the introduction of a new campus in 2012 of Leiden University as well as Leiden University College The Hague, which was established in 2010. The Royal Conservatory of The Hague and the Royal Academy of Art are also located there, as well as The Hague University, a vocational university and a branch of The Open University of the Netherlands. The city has many civil servants and diplomats. In fact, the number and variety of foreign residents (especially the expatriates) make the city quite culturally diverse, with many foreign pubs, shops and cultural events.\n\nThe Hague is the largest Dutch city on the North Sea and includes two distinct beach resorts. The main beach resort Scheveningen, in the northwestern part of the city is a popular destination for tourists as well as for inhabitants. With 10 million visitors a year, it is the most popular beach town in the Benelux area. Kijkduin, in the south west, is The Hague's other beach resort. It is significantly smaller and attracts mainly local residents.\n\nThe former Dutch colony of the East Indies, now Indonesia, has left its mark on The Hague. Since the 19th century, high level civil servants from the Dutch East Indies often spent long term leave and vacation in The Hague. Many streets are named after places in the Netherlands East Indies (as well as other former Dutch colonies such as Suriname) and there is a sizable \"Indo\" (i.e. mixed Dutch-Indonesian) community. Since the loss of these Dutch possessions in December 1949, \"Indo people\" also known as \"Indische people\" often refer to The Hague as \"the Widow of the Indies\".\n\nThe older parts of the town have many characteristically wide and long streets. Houses are generally low-rise (often not more than three floors). A large part of the south western city was planned by the progressive Dutch architect H.P. Berlage about 1910. This 'Plan Berlage' decided the spacious and homely streets for several decades. In World War II, a large amount of the western portion of The Hague was destroyed by the Germans. Afterwards, modernist architect W.M. Dudok planned its renewal, putting apartment blocks for the middle class in open park-like settings.\n\nThe layout of the city is more spacious than other Dutch cities and because of the incorporation of large and old nobility estates, the creation of various parks and the use of green zones around natural streams, it is a much more green city than any other in the Netherlands. That is, excepting some medieval close-knitted streets in the centre. The Hague has a canal system around the old city center, which is mainly used for boat tours around the city. Most of the canals were drained in the late 19th century but many have been restored recently.\n\nThe tallest buildings of The Hague are both 146-metre-tall ministries of Justice and Security and the Interior and Kingdom Relations of the Netherlands, designed by Hans Kollhoff. Other significant skyscrapers include the Hoftoren, Het Strijkijzer and De Kroon.\n\nAs of 1 January 2014, The Hague counts 509,779 inhabitants, making it the third largest city of the Netherlands. Between 1800 and 1960, the city saw a considerable growth from 40,000 in 1800 to 200,000 in 1900 and eventually 600,000 in 1960. The growth following 1900 was partially caused by the housing act of 1901, which stimulated the expansion of cities such as The Hague. In the period between 1960 and 1980, The Hague saw a shrinkage from 600,000 to 440,000 inhabitants, caused mostly by the spatial policy, demographic processes and lack of space. After several annexations and housing construction, The Hague has since grown again, celebrating its 500,000th inhabitant in 2011. The municipality expects the growth to continue to 513,000 inhabitants in 2020.\n\nThe demonym of The Hague officially is \"Hagenaar\", but the term \"Hagenees\" is informally used for someone who was born and raised in The Hague. The usage of these demonyms appears to be class-bound, with Hagenaar being the upper-class term and Hagenees being the lower-class one.\n\nThe proportion of Dutch people is 48%, while that of Western immigrants is 15.6%, and that of non-western immigrants is 34.4%.\n\nJust under half of The Hague's population identifies with a religious group. The two most popular religions are Christianity (29%) and Islam (14.1%). Indonesian, Turks, Moroccans and Surinamese people are particularly likely to adhere to a religion. Islam is the most common religion among Turks and, particularly, among Moroccans. Surinamese people are more religiously mixed, although Hinduism is the most common. Of The Hague's native Dutch population, almost all religious people belong to Christianity. Just under 40% of the population of The Hague regularly attends a house of worship.\n\nAs of the 2018 municipal election, The Hague's municipal council contains fifteen parties, most notably the local Group de Mos (9 seats), the VVD (7 seats), D66 (6 seats) and GroenLinks (5 seats).\n!style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=center colspan=2|Party\n!style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|Seats\n\nSince 2018, the municipal executive has comprised Group de Mos, VVD, D66 and GroenLinks. The chairman of the college is Mayor Pauline Krikke (VVD), and the city has eight aldermen: Richard de Mos, Rachid Guernaou (both Group de Mos), Boudewijn Revis, Kavita Parbhudayal (both VVD), Saskia Bruines, Robert van Asten (both D66), Liesbeth van Tongeren and Bert van Alphen (both GroenLinks). Each alderman is responsible for a number of particular policy areas and one of the city's eight districts.\n\nThe Hague is home to many different international judicial bodies, such as the International Court of Justice (ICJ), the International Criminal Court (ICC), and the Appeals Chamber of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR). The Hague is the fourth major centre for the United Nations, after New York, Geneva and Vienna.\n\nThe foundation of The Hague as an \"international city of peace and justice\" started at the end of the 19th century, when the first global Conference of peace took place in The Hague on Tobias Asser's initiative, with then a second one a few years later. A direct result of these meetings was the establishment of the world's first organisation for the settlement of international disputes: the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA). Shortly thereafter the Scottish-American millionaire Andrew Carnegie made the necessary funds available to build the Peace Palace to house the PCA. After the establishment of the League of Nations, The Hague became the seat of the Permanent Court of International Justice, which was replaced by the UN's International Court of Justice after World War II. The establishments of the Iran–United States Claims Tribunal (1981), the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (1993) and the International Criminal Court (2002) in the city further consolidated its role as a centre for international legal arbitration. Most recently, on 1 March 2009, the Special Tribunal for Lebanon, a U.N. tribunal to investigate and prosecute suspects in the 2005 assassination of Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, opened in the former headquarters of the Netherlands General Intelligence Agency in Leidschendam, a town within the greater area of The Hague.\n\nOther major international and European organisations based in The Hague include:\n\nMany academic institutions in the fields of international relations, international law and international development are based in The Hague. The Hague Academic Coalition (HAC) is a consortium of those institutions.\n\nIts member institutions are:\n\nIn 1948 the Congress of Europe was held with 750 delegates from 26 European countries, providing them with the opportunity to discuss ideas about the development of the European Union.\n\nThe Hague is twinned with Palembang, Indonesia; Juigalpa, Nicaragua; Nazareth, Israel; and Warsaw, Poland.\n\nThe Hague has a service-oriented economy. Professional life in the city is dominated by the large number of civil servants and diplomats working in the city; , 26% of the jobs in The Hague are those offered by the Dutch government or the international institutions. Large employers in this sector include the ministries of Defence, Justice, Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment, Foreign Affairs, the Interior and Transport, Public Works and Water Management.\n\nSeveral large international businesses have their headquarters in The Hague, including Royal Dutch Shell, the world's fifth largest company in terms of revenue. Other significant companies headquartered in The Hague include Aegon, APM Terminals, Damco, KPN, Nationale Nederlanden, NIBC Bank, Chicago Bridge & Iron Company and PostNL. The city is also host to the regional headquarters of Siemens, T-Mobile, AT&T, Huawei, Kuwait Petroleum Corporation, Saudi Aramco and Total S.A.. There has never been any large-scale industrial activity in The Hague, with the possible exception of the fishing activities of the harbour in Scheveningen. Many of the city's logistical and minor-industrial services are located in the Binckhorst in the Laak district, which contains many sizeable warehouses.\n\nTourism is an important sector in The Hague. The city is the Dutch second biggest tourist destination, after Amsterdam. In 2012, the city welcomed 1.2 million tourists (an increase of 80,000 compared to the previous year), half of whom came from abroad. The number of hotel nights in The Hague increased by 5%; in particular, visitors from neighbouring countries are finding their way to The Hague. Compared to 2011 Belgians booked 27% more hotel nights, while the Germans were good for 24% more hotel nights, and the French booked 20% more hotel nights. The 14% average increase in visits by foreign tourists more than compensated for the slight decrease of less than 1% by Dutch visitors. Tourists spend an average of €2 billion a year in the local economy. Today 1 in 10 residents make their living from the tourism sector.\n\nThe Hague originated around the 13th century Binnenhof, and this is still considered the cultural centre of the city. Night life centres around the three main squares in the city centre. The \"Plein\" (literally \"Square\") is taken by several large sidewalk cafés where often politicians may be spotted. The \"Grote Markt\" (literally \"Great Market\") is completely strewn with chairs and tables, summer or winter. The Buitenhof (literally \"Outer Court\", located just outside the Binnenhof) contains a six screen Pathé cinema and a handful of bars and restaurants in the immediate vicinity. Adjacent to the Buitenhof is De Passage, the country's first covered shopping mall. Dating from the late 19th century, it contains many expensive and speciality shops. One of the country's largest music venues, Paard van Troje, can be found in the centre of The Hague. Another popular music venue in The Hague is Muziekcafé de Paap.\n\nThe Spuiplein is a modern fourth square in the city centre, opposite the Nieuwe Kerk. Besides the City Hall, this was also the location of the Dr. Anton Philipszaal, home to the Residentie Orchestra, and the Lucent Danstheater, home to the internationally celebrated modern dance company Nederlands Dans Theater. These buildings, designed by Rem Koolhaas in 1988, have been demolished to make space for a new theatre, the Spuiforum, which would house both institutes as well as the Royal Conservatory. Despite efforts of the municipality, public support for the proposed theatre remains low. At the heart of the city centre across the palace gardens is the home of Summerschool Den Haag, international school for dance with guest teachers such as Valentina Scaglia, Igone de Jongh, and Maia Makhateli. The Koninklijke Schouwburg, home to the Nationaal Toneel, can also be found in the city centre - on the Korte Voorhout. New European Ensemble is an ensemble for contemporary music consisting on international musicians. The ensemble has its main base in the city.\n\nScheveningen forms a second cultural centre of The Hague, having its own Pathé cinema as well as the musical theatre Circustheater although, especially in the summer, most night life concentrates around the sea-front boulevard with its bars, restaurants and gambling halls. Several other attractions can be found in Scheveningen, such as the miniature park Madurodam, the Beelden aan Zee museum, and a Sea Life Centre.\n\nThe Hague is the residence of the Dutch monarch, and several (former) royal palaces can be found in the city. King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands and Queen Máxima of the Netherlands live in Huis ten Bosch in the Haagse Bos, and work in the Noordeinde Palace in the city centre. Moreover, there are two former royal palaces in The Hague. The Kneuterdijk Palace, built in 1716, is now home to the Council of State of the Netherlands, and the Lange Voorhout Palace is now occupied by the Escher Museum, dedicated to Dutch graphical artist M. C. Escher.\n\nThe Hague has its share of museums, most notably the Mauritshuis, located next to the Binnenhof, which exhibits many paintings by Dutch masters, such as Johannes Vermeer, Rembrandt van Rijn and Paulus Potter. Other museums include the science museum Museon, the modern art museum Gemeentemuseum, the historic museum Haags Historisch Museum, the national postal museum Museum voor Communicatie, the Museum Bredius, the Louis Couperus Museum, the museum Beelden aan Zee in Scheveningen, and the former prison housed in a 15th-century gatehouse, the Gevangenpoort.\n\nSince early times, possibly as far back as the 16th century, the stork has been the symbol of The Hague.\n\nSeveral films have been (partially) shot in The Hague, including \"Mindhunters\" (2004), \"Hum Tum\" (2004), \"Ocean's Twelve\" (2004), \"Black Book\" (2006) and \"Sonny Boy\" (2011). Parts of the second season of the Netflix series \"Sense8\" were filmed in The Hague. Notable actors and filmmakers from The Hague include; Martin Koolhoven, Georgina Verbaan, Carel Struycken, Frederique van der Wal, Marwan Kenzari, Vincent van Ommen, Anna Drijver, Renée Soutendijk and Paul Verhoeven, who grew up in the city from an early age.\n\nAn alternative music video of Coldplay's \"Viva la Vida\" was also shot in The Hague.\n\nCurrently the city's major football club is ADO Den Haag, who compete in the Eredivisie, the top division in the Netherlands. ADO Den Haag have won the KNVB Cup twice and won the League twice in the era before professional football. They play their matches at the 15,000 seat Kyocera Stadion. Amateur team HVV are also based in the city. Prior to the professional era the club won 10 national titles and one KNVB Cup, and they remain fourth in the all-time list of national title winners. HBS Craeyenhout are another amateur club in the city, who won three national titles before the establishment of the Eredivisie\n\nThe local rugby union team is Haagsche Rugby Club (a.k.a. HRC) and has been in the Guinness Book of Records for becoming Dutch (in adult and youth) champions so often. The ice hockey team is HYS The Hague. The handball team is SV Wings, active in the top division. The local American Football team is Den Haag Raiders'99.\n\nDarts is another sport played in The Hague; its popularity was increased by Raymond Van Barneveld winning several World Championships.\n\nThe half marathon race CPC Loop Den Haag is held annually in The Hague. In 1994, The Hague held the FEI World Equestrian Games.\n\nKoningsdag, or \"King's Day\", is held annually on 27 April. It is traditionally celebrated with fairs and flea markets throughout the city. On this day the colour orange predominates at a funfair (which sells orange cotton candy) and scores of informal street markets. The day is a \"vrijmarkt\" (literally \"free market\"), which means no licence is needed for street vending; children traditionally use this day to sell old unwanted toys. Since King's Day is a national holiday and thus a day off, many people also go out and party on the evening before King's Day. This evening is called King's Night, or \"Koningnach\" in The Hague. The \"t\" is left out because \"nacht\" is pronounced as \"nach\" in The Hague. Outdoor concerts throughout the city centre of The Hague draw tens of thousands of visitors every year.\n\nEvery third Tuesday in September is Prinsjesdag, or \"Prince's Day\", the opening of Dutch parliament. A festive day, children in The Hague are free from school so they may watch the procession of the Golden Coach. The King is driven in the coach from Noordeinde Palace to the Ridderzaal in the Binnenhof. Here, the King reads the Speech from the Throne, written jointly by the Ministers and Secretaries of State. This \"troonrede\" outlines the government's plans for the coming year. As the procession returns to the Noordeinde Palace, the road is lined with members of the Dutch Royal Armed Forces and in the afternoon the Royal Family appears on the palace balcony to address an adoring and often frenzied public (\"balkonscène\").\n\nVlaggetjesdag (), literally \"Flag Day\", is the annual celebration of the arrival of the year's first herring (Hollandse Nieuwe) in Scheveningen. Hundreds of thousands of people gather in Scheveningen for the festivities, and the fishing boats are decorated especially for the occasion. In addition to the omnipresent herring, this day also features a number of activities unrelated to fish. In Scheveningen, the first barrel of herring is traditionally sold at an auction on the Thursday preceding the official Vlaggetjesdag, and the proceeds go to charity. Vlaggetjesdag was made official in 1947. The festive tradition around the beginning of herring season is much older, however. In the 18th century, the villages along the coast, including Scheveningen, were forbidden to gut the caught herring. Since herring was most appropriate for smoking around September, most fishing boats fished flatfish or round-bodied fish during a part of the summer so as to avoid a surplus of fresh herring. In July or August, The city hosts a series of weekly firework displays by the sea front in Scheveningen, as part of an international fireworks festival and competition.\n\nTong Tong Fair, formerly \"Pasar Malam Besar\", is the largest festival in the world for Indo culture. Established in 1959, it is one of the oldest festivals and the fourth largest grand fair in the Netherlands. It is also the annual event with the highest number of paying visitors of The Hague, having consistently attracted more than 100,000 visitors since 1993. The Milan Festival is Europe's biggest Hindustani open-air event, annually held in Zuiderpark. The Hague also hosts several annual music festivals. The last Sunday in June, the city hosts Parkpop, the largest free open air pop concert in Europe. Crossing Border Festival, State-X and The Hague Jazz festival are among other music festivals in The Hague.\n\nCrossing Border Festival is an annual festival in November, focusing on music and literature. The first edition took place in 1993.\n\nMovies That Matter is an international film and debate festival about peace and justice that takes place every year at the end of March. Nine days filled with screenings of fiction films and documentaries, daily talk-shows, music performances and exhibitions. The first edition took place in 2006.\n\nMoreover, The Hague International Model United Nations, annually in January, is a five-day conference held at the World Forum, gathering over 4,000 students from over 200 secondary schools across the globe. It is the oldest and largest high school United Nations simulation in the world. \"Den Haag Sculptuur\" is an open-air exhibition of sculptures. The 10th edition, in 2007, celebrated the 400 years of the relationship between the Netherlands and Australia. Since 2009, the city of The Hague also annually presents a LGBT-emancipation award called the John Blankenstein Award. The exact date of the ceremony varies each year.\n\nThe Hague shares an airport with Rotterdam. It can be reached from Central Station by RandstadRail Line E, with an Airport Shuttle to and from Meijersplein Station. However, with several direct trains per hour from the railway stations Hollands Spoor and Centraal, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is more frequently used by people travelling to and from The Hague by air.\n\nThere are two main railway stations in The Hague: Hollands Spoor (HS) and Centraal Station (CS), only away from each other. Because these two stations were built and exploited by two different railway companies in the 19th century, east-west lines terminate at Centraal Station, whereas north-south lines run through Hollands Spoor. Centraal Station does, however, now offer good connections with the rest of the country, with direct services to most major cities, for instance Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Utrecht.\n\nOther destinations include Leiden, Haarlem, Zwolle, Groningen, Leeuwarden, Amersfoort, Enschede and Breda, Eindhoven. There is an international service to Antwerp and Brussels.\n\nPublic transport in The Hague consists of a tramway network and a sizeable number of bus routes, operated by HTM Personenvervoer. Plans for a subway were shelved in the early 1970s. However, in 2004 a tunnel was built under the city centre with two underground tram stations (Spui and Grote Markt); it is shared by RandstadRail lines 3 and 4 and tram routes 2 and 6.\n\nRandstadRail connects The Hague to nearby cities, Zoetermeer, Rotterdam and Leidschendam-Voorburg. It consists of four light rail lines (2, 3, 4 and 19 to Zoetermeer, Rijswijk, Delft and Leidschendam-Voorburg) and one subway line (E to Rotterdam).\n\nMajor motorways connecting to The Hague include the A12, running to Utrecht and the German border. The A12 runs directly into the heart of the city in a cutting. Built in the 1970s, this section of motorway (the \"Utrechtsebaan\") is now heavily overburdened. Plans were made in the late 1990s for a second artery road into the city (the \"Rotterdamsebaan\" or previously called \"Trekvliettracé\") which is due to be built between 2016 and 2019. Other connecting motorways are the A4, which connects the city with Amsterdam, and the A13, which runs to Rotterdam and connects to motorways towards the Belgian border. There is also the A44 that connects the city to Leiden, Haarlem and Amsterdam. In the 1970s, plans of building another motorway to Leiden existed. This \"Leidsebaan\" was supposed to start in the city centre and then follow the railway line The Hague - Amsterdam. Some works have been executed, but removed already in the 1980s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2219586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2219586", "title": "The Wealth and Poverty of Nations", "text": "The Wealth and Poverty of Nations\n\nThe Wealth and Poverty of Nations: Why Some are So Rich and Some So Poor (), published in 1998 (with an epilogue added to the 1999 paperback edition), is a book by the late David Landes, formerly Emeritus Professor of Economics and former Coolidge Professor of History at Harvard University. In it, Landes elucidates the reasons why some countries and regions of the world experienced near miraculous periods of explosive growth while the rest of the world stagnated. He does this by comparing the long-term economic histories of different regions of the world, giving priority to Europe and the United States, as well as Japan, China, the Arab world, and Latin America. In addition to analyzing economic and cliometric figures, he gives substantial credit to such intangible assets as culture and enterprise in the different societies he examines in order to explain economic success or failure.\n\nIn doing so, he revives, at least in part, several theories he believes have been incorrectly discarded by academics over the last 40 years:\n\n\nHe also spends a good deal of effort to debunk claims that the Asian miracle did not happen, was not significant, or was financed by European colonialism, and he draws a correlation between the economic level of a country and the way it treats its women.\n\nIn short, he argues that the vast economic growth of the Industrial Revolution was no accident but instead resulted from several qualities of Europe, including its climate, political competition, economic freedom and attitude towards science and religion, more specifically from certain countries in Western Europe, primarily England.\n\nCritics have charged Landes with eurocentrism in his analysis, a charge which Landes himself does not deny; in fact, he embraces it explicitly, arguing that an explanation for an economic miracle that happened originally only in Europe (though he deals with the later 'Asian miracle' in \"Wealth and Poverty\") must of necessity be a Eurocentric analysis, thus siding at least at some level with thinkers such as Bernard Lewis. Following Daniel Bell, knowledge is the necessary link between 'The European miracle' and the American post-industrial society.\n\nLandes and Professor Andre Gunder Frank, author of \"ReOrient: Global Economy in the Asian Age\" (), are noted for having come to very different conclusions about the long-vie significance of economic developments in \"the West\" during the modern era and publicly debated their findings in 1998 at Northwestern University.\n\nAdditionally, an alternate theory relies on literacy and the gap between Protestants and Catholics as an explanation for the difference in economic results.\n\nThe economist Paul Krugman remarked in The Trouble with History (article published on his MIT-hosted blog) that the book, while containing an enormous amount of information, offered very few ideas. « What (does) ... Landes actually believe? And the answer, which seems to me to be damning, is that I am not sure. (...) So I am still waiting for a book that helps me understand what really happened in this utterly perplexing century... Whoever writes that book will have to be a person unafraid of offering theories as well as facts, and therefore of saying things that might turn out to be wrong. »\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51255851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51255851", "title": "Timeline of stroke", "text": "Timeline of stroke\n\nThis is a timeline of stroke, describing especially major discoveries, developments and organizations concerning the disease.\n\nGreek physician Hippocrates first recognizes stroke more than 2,400 years ago, calling the condition \"apoplexia\". Hippocrates doesn't clarify that the condition actually happens in the brain, instead resolving into a \"stagnation of the blood, whereby all the motion and action of the spirits is taken away\", and that the motion is stopped by sharp humours, or a \"plethora\" (an excess of red blood cells or bodily humours). Galen (129 AD) accepts and develops the theory of Hippocrates, believing that apoplexy is caused by anything interfering with the flow of the \"vital spirit\" to the brain. The galenic theory persists for centuries.\n\nBritish physician William Harvey (1578–1657) publishes his theory on the circulation of the blood. Others, like Wepfer (1620–1695), still believe that apoplexy is caused by an obstruction in the path to the brain, suggesting that the brain did not receive enough \"animal spirits\". G.G.J. Robinson theorizes that there is a \"plethora of fulness of blood\", therefore bleeding is acceptable since it lessens the pressure on the \"animal organs\". Overall, the definition introduced by Hippocrates is still in use.\n\nAlthough remnants of old dogma persist, the foundations have been laid for apoplexy to shed some ancient traditions based on symptomatic presentation and to evolve into a vascular disease based on clinico–pathological and patho–physiological correlates. Bonet publishes \"Sepulchretum sive Anatomica Practica\", which becomes a prominent resource for physicians during most of the 18th century.\n\nThe earliest known stroke treatments start to happen, when surgeons begin performing surgery on the carotid arteries. Surgeons begin operating to reduce cholesterol buildup and remove blockages that could then lead to a stroke. Reports of successful closures of injuries to the carotid arteries are documented.\n\nEarly in the 20th century, most of the treatments for stroke patients are limited to rehabilitation after an acute stroke, and most patients are usually left with permanent and severe deficits. In the 1950s new techniques and therapies are developed to explore and modify the internal processes of cerebrovascular disease. In the 1960s carotid endarterectomy is greatly improved but is used mostly for stroke prevention and there is still no effective treatment after an acute stroke. In the 1970s aspirin is found to be very effective in stroke prevention. In the 1980s cigarette smoking is found to be a definite risk factor for stroke, and smoking cessation programs become very important. In the 1990s tissue plasminogen activator starts to be used for treatment of embolic or thrombotic stroke.\n\nToday, rapid diagnosis is crucial for immediate treatment. Stroke remains the second most common cause of death worldwide, accounting for 6.7 million deaths in 2012. From 1990 to 2010, the age-standardised incidence of stroke significantly decreased by 12% in high-income countries, and increased by 12% in low-income and middle-income countries. In the same period, mortality rates showed a significant decrease in all countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "13968000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13968000", "title": "Trần Trọng Kim", "text": "Trần Trọng Kim\n\nTrần Trọng Kim (1883 – December 2, 1953), courtesy name Lệ Thần, was a Vietnamese scholar and politician who served as the Prime Minister of the short-lived Empire of Vietnam, a state established with the support of Imperial Japan in 1945. This came after Japan had seized direct control of Vietnam from the Vichy French colonial forces during the Second World War. He was an uncle of Bui Diem.\n\nKim was born in Dan Pho, Hà Tĩnh Province in northern central Vietnam in 1883. At the time, French Indochina had just been formed after the colonization of Vietnam, and Hà Tĩnh was part of the central region, which had been become a French protectorate under the name of Annam. In the immediate decade afterwards, the province was the scene of a guerrilla movement led by Phan Đình Phùng that attempted to expel the French authorities. This movement was particularly popular in the Nghệ An-Hà Tĩnh region, which had boasted a long line of nationalist icons.\n\nNevertheless, the movement was crushed; and when Kim grew up, he initially studied in Hanoi at schools reserved for the ruling elite. He then worked in the public service of the French administration. Kim's early career was as an interpreter, serving in Ninh Bình in northern Vietnam, which was known as the protectorate of Tonkin. In 1905, Kim was sent to France as an employee of a private company. In 1908, he won a scholarship from the École Coloniale (Colonial School) to begin his training as a teacher at the École Normale of Melun (Seine-et-Marne). Kim returned to Vietnam in September 1911, commenced his career as a teacher in Annam, and slowly rose in the educational hierarchy. By 1942, he had risen to become an inspector of elementary public instruction in Tonkin. He wrote many works on pedagogy and also started a review on the topic. Kim was also a freemason.\nIn contrast to his low-key career as an education official, Kim was widely known as a scholar for a collection of textbooks published in Romanized Vietnamese (\"quốc ngữ\"), especially for his writings on Confucianism, Buddhism, and Vietnamese history.\n\nHis two best known works were \"Việt Nam sử lược\" (\"A Brief history of Vietnam\"), published in 1920, and \"Nho giáo\" (\"Confucianism\"), published in 1929–1933. In the first book, Kim emphasised the Chinese influence on Vietnamese society. The latter book dealt with examining Confucianism in China and its impact on Vietnam. Kim strongly praised Confucianism, and his book provoked much intellectual debate on the philosophy's place in Vietnamese society. \"Nho giáo\" was seen as a link between the generations of scholars who were brought up under the Confucian examination system of pre-French Vietnam and those who grew up under the French system. \"Việt Nam Sử Lược\" remains in print as of 2009.\n\nDue to his reputation in literary circles, Kim was a leading figure in the Buddhist and Confucian associations, and in 1939 he was appointed to the Chamber of People's Representatives in Tonkin. He was made a chevalier of the Legion of Honour and listed in a French publication in 1943 that profiled prominent figures in French Indochina.\nAfter the outbreak of the Second World War, Japan continued its military conquest of Asia. It invaded and annexed Indochina into its Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere in 1940-1941. As France had fallen to Nazi Germany, the colonial administration in Vietnam of Admiral Jean Decoux was loyal to the Axis collaborationist Vichy France of Marshal Philippe Pétain. As Vichy France was nominally allied to Japan, the French administration was left in charge of the day-to-day affairs of French Indochina, with the Japanese overseeing them.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Japan was also seen by many Vietnamese as a promoter of Asian nationalism, and many Vietnamese nationalists had travelled to Japan in an attempt to further the Vietnamese independence movement. During the period, Kim was approached by several Japanese experts in Vietnamese studies. These contacts, together with his ties to a progressive organisation in Hanoi, made Kim politically suspect to the Decoux administration. When Decoux implemented his second major purge of pro-Japanese Vietnamese in the autumn of 1943, Kim was reported to be on the list of the Sûreté (Criminal Investigation Department). On October 28, 1943, Japanese agents escorted Kim to the Kempeitai (military police) office in Hanoi and put him under protection. There, Kim was joined by Duong Ba Trac, a co-editor on a dictionary that was currently being written. According to Kim's account, Trac persuaded him to co-sign a letter applying for an evacuation to Singapore. At the beginning of November, the Japanese escorted them to Saigon. After briefly living at the Kempeitai office, they became the guests of Dai Nan Koosi, a Japanese business firm owned by Matsushita Mitsuhiro, which was known as a front for intelligence operations.\n\nOn January 1, 1944, Kim and Trac boarded a Japanese vessel headed for Singapore. According to Ellen Hammer, the French threat to Kim appeared \"to have been a wholly illusory French menace\". After spending just over a year on the island, and following Trac's death from lung cancer in December 1944, Kim was transferred to Bangkok. Three months later, on March 30, 1945, he was unexpectedly recalled to Saigon by the Japanese to be consulted on \"history\". This came after Captain Michio Kuga from the Japanese Army's liaison office in Saigon was flown to Bangkok for talks.\n\nBy this stage, the Liberation of Paris in August 1944 and the fall of Vichy France meant that Japan could no longer depend on the French colonial administration to cooperate. As a result, they assumed direct control of Indochina by deposing the French in a coup on March 9, and declared Vietnam to be independent under the newly created Empire of Vietnam with Bảo Đại, who was Vietnam's titular monarch, as its head of state. Japan however, maintained military control. Bảo Đại was then charged with selecting a prime minister and a cabinet. It was believed that Bảo Đại sent a message to Ngô Đình Diệm, who was then living under Japanese protection in Saigon, asking him to form a government. However, the message never arrived, and this was put down to Japanese concerns that Diệm would seek to govern independently rather than toe the Japanese line.\n\nArriving in Saigon, he met with General Saburo Kawamura, Chief of Staff of the Japanese Indochina Garrison Army, and Lieutenant Colonel Hayashi Hidezumi, Kawamura's chief of political affairs. Kawamura told Kim that he was one of the \"notables\" invited by Emperor Bảo Đại to consult in Huế on the creation of the new independent government. During this time, Kim also met with Diệm for the first time, finding out that he had not been included on the Japanese shortlist.\n\nAccording to his own account, Kim accepted the invitation to talk with Bảo Đại because Hoàng Xuân Hãn, a young friend, was also on the emperor's list. Kim departed Saigon on April 2, and arrived in Huế three days later. On April 7, Bảo Đại held a personal meeting with Kim, and at first Kim refused to accept the prime ministerial post. Kim said that he was too old, was an independent with no political party infrastructure, as well as his lack of prior involvement in politics. However, Kim prolonged his stay for further negotiations and finally agreed to form a new government on April 16. The following day, Kim submitted his proposed cabinet consisting of ten ministers. With the exception of one nominee who refused his cabinet post, the others arrived in the capital by late April or early May to take office).\n\nMost of his cabinet members had been trained in French schools but were regarded as nationalists although they were not regarded as anti-French. The cabinet () included Phan Anh as minister of youth. Kim's regime was quickly endorsed by the Đại Việt Quốc dân đảng and the Việt Nam Phục quốc Đồng minh Hội (), two nationalist political parties. The Phuc Quoc were connected to Phan Bội Châu and Cường Để, two leading anti-colonial activists from the early 20th century who championed cooperation with Japan and pan-Asianism to expel French colonialism.\n\nKim only had the chance to rule for five months, and most of his policies were not implemented before the Viet Minh seized power following the Japanese collapse at the end of the Second World War. After his government collapsed, Kim returned to his research and academic work.\n\nKim's actions have caused a debate as to whether he was a Japanese puppet. Milton Sacks and John T. McAlister regard him as such, although others, such as Trương Bửu Lâm, regard Kim and his cabinet as a group of apolitical technocrats.\n"}
{"id": "25907757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25907757", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 408", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 408\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 408, adopted on May 26, 1977, considered a report by the Secretary-General regarding the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force. The Council noted its efforts to establish a durable and just peace in the Middle East but also expressed its concern over the prevailing state of tension in the area.\n\nThe Resolution decided to call upon the parties concerned to immediately implement Resolution 338 (1973), it renewed the mandate of the Observer Force for another 6 months until November 30, 1977 and requested that the Secretary-General submit a report on the situation at the end of that period.\n\nThe resolution was adopted with 12 votes to none; Benin, China and Libya did not participate in the voting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1374482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1374482", "title": "Urakami", "text": "Urakami\n\nUrakami was an area in the northern part of the city of Nagasaki, Japan.\n\nIn 1614, by the orders of shōgun leader Tokugawa Ieyasu, Christianity was banned in Japan in order to suppress European influence and to prevent the undermining of the Japanese government. Most Japanese Christians who openly spoke about their religion were open to prosecution and subject to extreme harsh treatment, such as torture or crucifixion. As a result, Urakami became the stronghold for oppressed believers who steadfastly adhered to their religion in secret.\n\nDuring this time period, the Oura Cathedral played the important role as spiritual support for Christians in Urakami. The existence of Christians within the Urakami area resulted the Japanese government to launch a crackdown in order to implement the ban. On September 1, 1790, the first persecution began in Urakami; hidden Christians were discovered and arrested, though there were no deaths. In 1839, a new wave of persecution was launched in Urakami, though this too didn’t result in any deaths either. But in the third kuzure (literally, ”disintegration\"), conducted in 1859, more than 10 people died under torture. The fourth and final persecution was conducted between 1867 and 1873, better known as the Urakami Yoban Kuzure.\n\nDuring the process, 68 residents of Urakami were arrested and were forced to renounce their religion entirely. This led to protests from foreign consuls, and the Tokugawa Shogunate relented. However, soon after Tokugawa Shogunate ended and in February 1868 the new Meiji government appointed Sawa Nobuyoshi in charge of public order in Kyūshū. His dislike of all things foreign was well known, and, after consultation, he decided to deal with the problem once and for all. His plan to exile the entire village was approved by an Imperial council on 25 April and implemented in two stages: first the ringleaders to Hagi, Tsuwano and Fukuyama, and then the rest of the village. Families were split up, and in total 3,414 Christian men, women, and children were sent into exile to all over Japan: 500 to Kanazawa, 160 to Tsuwano, 150 to Satsuma, 117 to Tsuru Shima, Okayama, etc.\n\nHowever, under pressure, and wanting to keep the relationship with the United States and European countries, especially after the Japanese government opened to the world in the 1850s, the ban was lifted in 1873 and the Japanese Christians were finally able to return to Urakami. In 1895, Christians built the first cathedral in Asia in the Urakami area. The construction of the cathedral was fully completed in 1925.\n\nOn August 9, 1945, near the end of World War II, Urakami became the site for ground zero when the atomic bomb exploded at about a height of . The damage caused by the heat rays and the blast was almost entirely restricted to this area, while the Nakashima area was fairly well shielded by the hills. However, 36% of the total structures in both areas were damaged. The Urakami Cathedral was also heavily damaged during the blast. \n\nFollowing the war, Urakami was rebuilt and now houses the once-damaged Cathedral site.\n\n (ground zero)\n"}
