{"id": "57622421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57622421", "title": "2A Continental Architectural Awards", "text": "2A Continental Architectural Awards\n\nThe 2A Continental Architectural Awards is an architecture award, organized by the 2A Magazine to recognize and honor an individual or a group’s contribution to the world of architecture.\n\nThe award is presented under eight categories\n\nThe first Award event was held in Istanbul, Turkey, with the Istanbul Technical University being the main Academic partner. The other technical partners were The UNESCO, Istanbul Bilgi University and Research Institute of Cultural Heritage and Tourism of Iran. Its theme was “The Emergence of Contemporary Architecture in Asia.” The Jury members consisted of Sinan Mert Sener, Seung H-Sang, Romi Khosla, and Yavuz Selim Sepin.\n\nThe second 2A Continental Architectural Award event was held at Vienna, Austria in association with Academy of Fine Arts Vienna. This year’s theme was “Innovative Architecture in Asia.” The Jury consisted of some fine architects including Volkwin Marg, Nasrine Seraji, Wolfgang Tschapeller, Murat Tabanlıoğlu, Françoise Fromonot and Hiromi Hosoya.\n\nThe 2017 2A Awards event took place in Berlin, Germany and was themed “Innovative Architecture in Various Continents.” Seated on the Jury were renowned architects Ulrike Lauber, Hubert Neinhoff, and Sergei Tchoban.\n\nAhmad Zohadi is the founder, organizer and director of 2A Continental Architectural Awards organised since 2015. He is the CEO and editor-in-chief of 2A Magazine, also the founder and chief editor of \"‘Architecture & Construction’\", a persian quarterly magazine, published since 2003, and distributed in Iran.\n\nThe Criteria for judging the awards are:\n"}
{"id": "58758364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58758364", "title": "Al-Katib al-misri (magazine)", "text": "Al-Katib al-misri (magazine)\n\nThe Egyptian journal al-Katib al-misri (Arabic: الكاتب المصري; DMG: al-Kātib al-miṣrī; English: \"The Egyptian Writer\") was published in Cairo monthly from 1945-1948. It was founded originally by the Egyptian Press and Publishing House owned by the Jewish al-Harari family who entrusted Taha Hussein (1889-1973) with the management. The magazine was published in total in 32 issues and was available in numerous Arab metropolises.\n\nThe focus of the journal was the publication of international literature and literary criticism, which were translated into Arabic and so helped to reach a broader readership. Both Arabic and non-Arabic art, literature and science were encouraged and a dialogue between Arabic and other languages should be established.\n\nAs one of the first post-war magazines, al-Kātib al-miṣrī also aimed to make its vision of the enlightenment accessible to all and to promote mutual cultural exchange. \"Literature should be lifted above all conflicts existing world-wide.\"\n\nArabic translations among others, of works by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry or Jean-Paul Satre, were published, texts of promising new Arab authors as well as literary criticism, which also offered an introduction by Western authors such as James Joyce or Franz Kafka.\n\nMoreover two other sections also discussed in detail the contents and orientations of Arabic and European periodicals of the time. In 1948, the publication of the magazine was stopped, whereby it is not clear whether this was spontaneous or under governmental pressure.\n"}
{"id": "244486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=244486", "title": "Angela's Ashes", "text": "Angela's Ashes\n\nAngela's Ashes: A Memoir is a 1996 memoir by the Irish-American author Frank McCourt, with various anecdotes and stories of his childhood. It details his very early childhood in Brooklyn, New York, but focuses primarily on his life in Limerick, Ireland. It also includes his struggles with poverty and his father's alcoholism.\n\nThe book was published in 1996 and won the 1997 Pulitzer Prize for Biography or Autobiography. A sequel, \"'Tis\", was published in 1999, followed by \"Teacher Man\" in 2005.\n\nBorn in Brooklyn, New York, on 19 August 1930, Frank (Francis) McCourt is the oldest son of Malachy McCourt and Angela Sheehan McCourt. Both of his parents emigrated from Ireland and married in a shotgun wedding over Angela's pregnancy with Frankie. Angela is originally from Limerick, Ireland, and is fond of music, singing, and dancing. Malachy, from Northern Ireland, is an alcoholic known for his \"odd manner\" and for telling fantastical stories about Irish heroes. Frankie is often said to closely resemble his father, having a hang-dog face and the same \"odd manner.\" The narrative is told from the point of view of Frankie as a child.\n\nIn America, the McCourts live in modern tenement housing next to a park and share a floor, and a communal lavatory, with other immigrant families from Ireland, Italy, and the Jewish communities.\n\nFrankie has four younger siblings: Malachy, born in 1931, who is often favored over Frankie for being an attractive, open child; blond twins Oliver and Eugene, born in 1932; and an infant sister, Margaret, in 1935.\n\nThe family often struggles with poverty as Malachy Sr. engages in an endless struggle to find work and alcohol. The family's prospects, and Angela's spirits, lift whenever he finds a new job and brings home his first week's wages, but eventually he finds himself spending all of his pay in pubs, despite Angela's many schemes to prevent him from doing so, and losing his job after a few weeks.\n\nMargaret's birth seems to instill new life into the family: the whole family falls in love with her, Malachy Sr most of all. He gives up drinking and finds steady work to support the family. However, due to her parents' ignorance of children's disease, Margaret lives for only seven weeks. With her death, Malachy Sr abandons his family for days to indulge in an alcoholic binge, while Angela falls into a severe, debilitating depression. Frank, age six, is forced to feed and care for his younger siblings, often with the kind intervention of the neighbors. The neighbors soon realize the family's dire straits and intervene, contacting Angela's cousins, who in turn recommend the family return to Ireland with Angela's family in Limerick.\n\nAngela is pregnant with a new baby, as they return to Ireland from America, and lose the child, shortly after moving to Limerick.\n\nThe Great Depression has struck Ireland, particularly Limerick, even harder than it did the United States. There is little work, and conditions for poor families are miserable. Malachy Sr finds it even more difficult to find work because of his Northern Ireland accent and mannerisms, the children are mocked for their American accents, and many neighbors, as well as Angela's family, look down on the McCourts for their return from America.\n\nThe family is forced to rely on the dole and charity from the local Society of Saint Vincent de Paul, which requires extensive, and humiliating application processes. Angela and Malachy Sr often argue about this as Malachy drinks the welfare money meant to feed the family, and views Angela's asking for charity as begging and degrading. For many years, the family subsists on little more than bread and tea.\n\nWithin a year of the family's arrival, Oliver and Eugene also die—Oliver of what is implied to be scarlet fever and Eugene, a few months later, from grieving the loss of his twin and malnutrition. After each death, Angela sinks into depression, and the family moves because she cannot bear being in the same house. Each move results in the McCourts sliding down into worse and worse circumstances. Eventually, they end up living in a slum house. The entire ground floor floods for half a year, requiring the family to live in an upstairs room together. Their house is located next to the only lavatory on the whole street. There is a constant traffic of families dumping chamber pots in the filthy lavatory, which often backs up and smells. Two additional baby brothers, Michael (born 1936), and Alphie (Alphonsus, b. 1940), are born in Limerick.\n\nFrankie grows up in Limerick as a sensitive and intelligent child. He often makes unique observations from those around him and has an emotional need to help. His strict Catholic upbringing preys on his imaginative nature and thoughts on whether he will be going to hell plague on his mind. Frankie must balance his Catholic beliefs against a church which frequently rejects him due to his poverty and family, his Irish upbringing against his desire to return to America once he's grown, and his desire for his father's attention against his loyalty to his mother. Strangers often prefer his more attractive and outgoing siblings, but Frankie wins over a few champions, mainly in the form of his school teachers and the various adults who hire him for odd jobs.\n\nFrank develops typhoid fever and is taken to a Catholic hospital, where for the first time he has adequate food, warmth, and access to limitless books, and the time to read them, giving birth to his lifelong love of literature. Frankie additionally contracts chronic conjunctivitis, which does little to improve his looks or perceived, sarcastic demeanor.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War II, many Limerick men find work at a defence plant in Coventry, England, leaving their families behind and sending back money to support them. These good-paying jobs lift many of the McCourts' neighbors out of poverty. Malachy Sr leaves the family behind and secures a defence job. For several weeks, the payments allow the family to enjoy small luxuries such as candy and visits to the movies. But soon, the money stops coming and Malachy Sr abandons his family for good.\n\nFrank and his brothers begin to scavenge the streets for coal or peat turf for fuel. They also steal leftover food from restaurants at the end of the day and grocery deliveries from doorsteps.\n\nEventually, the family is evicted and homeless. With few options, Angela and her children move in with her bachelor cousin, Laman Griffin. Laman is a petty tyrant who resents the presence of the children and enjoys degrading them and Angela. A preteen Frankie resents this treatment, but puts up with it for his mother and younger brothers. Upon discovering that part of Laman's deal for providing housing is a sexual relationship with Angela, Frankie has a fight with Laman and is thrown out of the house. Shortly after, Malachy Jr leaves Laman Griffin's to join the military as a bugle boy.\n\nFrankie moves in with his maternal uncle, who was dropped on his head as a child and now lives in the house left to him by his deceased mother. Frank gets a job as a telegram delivery boy on his 14th birthday and begins to support himself while saving for his passage to America. The interesting people and situations Frankie meets on his deliveries cause him to grow as a person.\n\nFrankie supports his youngest brothers by providing food and respite from Laman Griffin when they come to visit him. Eventually, his brothers ask if they can move in with him, which he allows, and they are shortly followed by Angela. Frankie must now turn over the majority of his wages to his mother as the bread winner of the family, though he still takes on various odd jobs to earn extra for his ticket to America, such as writing threatening collection letters on behalf of a local moneylender.\n\nOn his sixteenth birthday, Frank's uncle takes him to the pub to buy him his first beer. Frank gets drunk and returns home, singing like his father used to. When his mother shames him for drinking the way his father did, Frank hits her, accusing her of being a whore for Laman Griffin, and is immediately ashamed of himself.\n\nOne day Frank returns to the moneylender's home to find she has died. Liberated, Frank takes money from her purse and throws her ledger of debtors into the river to free the neighborhood of their debts. The contents of the moneylender's purse give him enough money to return to America at the age of nineteen. Frank arrives in Poughkeepsie, New York, ready to begin a new life in the country of his birth.\n\nMcCourt family\n\nOthers\n\nAfter traveling to America (where the book ends), Frank ended up working at the Biltmore Hotel in New York City, where he remained until 1951. Frank was drafted during the Korean war to be stationed in Bavaria, Germany. After being discharged, Frank returned to New York and dabbled with several different jobs until he was accepted into NYU. After graduating in 1957 with a bachelor's degree in English, McCourt turned to teaching in New York schools. He then obtained his master's degree and traveled to Dublin in pursuit of his PhD, which he never completed.\n\n\"Angela's Ashes\" won several awards, including the 1997 Pulitzer Prize for Biography or Autobiography, the 1996 National Book Critics Circle Award (Biography), and the 1997 Boeke Prize.\n\nHe was elected Irish American of the Year in 1998.\n\nMcCourt was accused of greatly exaggerating his family's impoverished upbringing by many Limerick natives, including Richard Harris. McCourt's own mother had denied the accuracy of his stories shortly before her death in 1981, shouting from the audience during a stage performance of his and his brother Malachy's recollections that it was \"all a pack of lies.\"\n\nIn 1999 a film version was released. It was co-written and directed by Alan Parker starring Joe Breen, Ciaran Owens, and Michael Legge, as the Young, Middle and Older Frank McCourt respectively and Emily Watson as McCourt's mother Angela, Robert Carlyle as the father.\n\nThe film begins when the McCourt family move back to Ireland after experiencing hardship in America. Many of the Street scenes were filmed in Cork, Ireland. The film soundtrack was composed and conducted by John Williams, and features songs by Billie Holiday and Sinéad O'Connor.\n\nA stage musical written by Paul Hurt, with music and lyrics by Adam Howell based on the book premiered in the Lime Tree Theatre, Limerick on July 6, 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "326327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=326327", "title": "August Schleicher", "text": "August Schleicher\n\nAugust Schleicher (; ; 19 February 1821 – 6 December 1868) was a German linguist. His great work was \"A Compendium of the Comparative Grammar of the Indo-European Languages\", in which he attempted to reconstruct the Proto-Indo-European language. To show how Indo-European might have looked, he created a short tale, Schleicher's fable, to exemplify the reconstructed vocabulary and aspects of Indo-European society inferred from it.\n\nSchleicher was born in Meiningen, in the Duchy of Saxe-Meiningen, southwest of Weimar in the Thuringian Forest.\n\nHe died from tuberculosis at the age of 47 in Jena, in the Duchy of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach, in present-day Thuringia.\n\nSchleicher was educated at the University of Tübingen and Bonn and taught at the Charles University in Prague and the University of Jena. He began his career studying theology and Oriental languages, especially Arabic, Hebrew, Sanskrit and Persian. Influenced by Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, he formed the theory that a language is an organism, with periods of development, maturity and decline. In 1850, Schleicher completed a monograph systematically describing European languages, \"Die Sprachen Europas in systematischer Uebersicht (The Languages of Europe in Systematic Perspective)\". He explicitly represented languages as perfectly natural organisms that could most conveniently be described using terms drawn from biology: genus, species, and variety.\n\nSchleicher claimed that he himself had been convinced of the natural descent and competition of languages before he had read Darwin's \"Origin of Species\". He invented a system of language classification that resembled a botanical taxonomy, tracing groups of related languages and arranging them in a genealogical tree.\nHis model, the \"Stammbaumtheorie\" (family-tree theory), was a major development in the study of Indo-European languages. He first introduced a graphic representation of a \"Stammbaum\" in an article published in 1853 entitled \"Die ersten Spaltungen des indogermanischen Urvolkes\". By the time of the publication of his \"Deutsche Sprache (German language)\" (1860) he had begun to use trees to illustrate language descent. Schleicher is commonly recognized as the first linguist to portray language development using the figure of a \"tree\". Largely in reaction to this, Johannes Schmidt later proposed his 'Wave Theory' as an alternative model.\n\nFor the most part, however, Darwin's ideas simply overlaid the fundamental features of Schleicher's prior evolutionary project, which derived from the work of those individuals immersed in German romanticism and idealism, especially Wilhelm von Humboldt and Hegel.\n\nSchleicher believed that languages pass through a life cycle, similar to that of living beings. They start simpler than they will become. This state of primitive simplicity was followed by a period of growth, which eventually slowed, and then gave way to a period of decay (1874:4):\n\nSchleicher was an advocate of the polygenesis of languages. He reasoned as follows (1876:2):\n\nSchleicher's ideas on polygenesis had long-lasting influence, both directly and via their adoption by the biologist Ernst Haeckel. Ernst Haeckel was a German evolutionist and zoologist known for proposing the gastraea hypothesis.\n\nIn 1866, August Leskien, a pioneer of research into sound laws, began studying comparative linguistics under August Schleicher at the University of Jena.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18919785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18919785", "title": "Belgrade Competition in Oratory", "text": "Belgrade Competition in Oratory\n\nThe Belgrade Competition in Oratory is an annual academic event at the University of Belgrade's Law School, which has gained significant popularity of the general public all over Serbia. In this competition students deliver their speeches on both free-choice and given topics. The event represents an opportunity for students to express their critical opinions in front of government officials sitting in the front rows of the audience, when the largest lecture hall at the law school is filled to capacity. The competition is broadcast live on the national television program.\n\nThis event is traditionally organized by university professors Obrad Stanojević and Sima Avramović, the founders of the Center for Oratory \"Institutio oratoria\", which gathers the University of Belgrade's Law School students interested in developing public speaking skills and prepares them for competitions. These scholars hold an optional course on rhetoric at the Law School and both are authors of textbooks on rhetoric.\n\nFollowing the example of the Belgrade Law School, several educational institutions in the region organize their own similar events. The winners of local competitions throughout Serbia take part in the Serbian universities wide finals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "194540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=194540", "title": "Campus Watch", "text": "Campus Watch\n\nCampus Watch is a web-based project of the Middle East Forum, a think tank with its headquarters in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. According to its website, Campus Watch \"reviews and critiques Middle East studies in North America with an aim to improving them.\" Critics of Campus Watch say that it is a pro-Israel lobbyist organization involved in harassing, blacklisting, or intimidating scholars critical of Israel.\n\nCampus Watch was launched in 2002 by Middle East Forum director Daniel Pipes. It is headed by Winfield Myers.\n\nCampus Watch encourages students to submit reports about college professors. In 2002, Campus Watch created a controversy when it compiled these reports into 'dossiers' critical of various professors at institutes of higher learning in the United States, in which it detailed their supposedly \"anti-Israeli statements\". In response to the posting of the dossiers on its website, many individuals sent harassing emails and phone calls to the profiled professors, and the website was widely condemned in the media for supposedly engaging in \"McCarthyesque\" intimidation. The Campus Watch project was derided as a \"War on Academic Freedom\"; in protest, more than 100 academics asked to be listed along with those accused by Campus Watch. The response of Judith Butler, a comparative literature professor at Berkeley, was circulated on the Internet:\n\nRashid Khalidi, a professor at Columbia University who was the subject of a critical dossier on the website, suggested that the Campus Watch campaign was an attempt to silence legitimate criticism, \"by tarring it with the brush of anti-Semitism and anti-Americanism, truly loathsome charges.\" Khalidi taped an anonymous phone call he received, subsequent to the Campus Watch dossier publication, that says: \"Khalidi, Columbia alumni love Campus Watch because they keep an eye on thugs like you. We have our eye on you. You'd better watch out.\"\n\nAfter two weeks, Campus Watch removed the dossiers from its website.\nIt continues to collect information from students, though it no longer publishes such dossiers. According to Juan Cole, one of the professors who was subject to Campus Watch's dossiers, the website continued to spread false information about him even after the dossiers were removed: \"The removal of the individual dossiers is merely a cosmetic change, since the same academics are still being spied on, only under the rubric of spying on their campuses instead.\"\n\nAn article in \"The Nation\" suggests that Daniel Pipes is \"an anti-Arab propagandist\", and his Campus Watch project aims to \"smear\" academics critical of the Israeli occupation or of American foreign policy. Campus Watch's project was identified, in \"The Nation\" and elsewhere, as resembling a decades-old AIPAC project:\n\nJoel Beinin, who has often been criticized by Campus Watch, has accused Daniel Pipes of being \"beholden to Israeli right wing politics.\"\nAccording to Beinin, \"After failing in his own pursuit of an academic career, Pipes has evidently decided to take revenge on the scholarly community that rejected him\", in the form of the Campus Watch website. Pipes strongly denied Beinin's charges, writing that he was \"offered a tenure-track position and turned it down, preferring to write than teach\". while simultaneously attacking Beinin \"of credentialitis, the disease that places more emphasis on qualifications than achievements\" and the fact that \"Harvard's doctoral program in history turned him down but awarded me a Ph.D..\" Beinin has also alleged that Campus Watch \"makes comments\" about the ethnic and cultural background of scholars.\n\nIn their paper \"The Israel Lobby and U.S. Foreign Policy\", John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt wrote that\nPipes responded to part of the Mearsheimer and Walt allegations, writing\nLater he wrote that \"Mearsheimer and Walt unconditionally concede they have no information about the alleged “lobby” giving me orders concerning Campus Watch, confirming the falsehood of their initial claim\" and furthermore added\n\nAccording to Campus Watch, it \"critiques Middle East studies in North America regardless of whether they address Israel.\" In response to what it refers to as \"a campaign of vilification and distortion\" by critics, Campus Watch states:\n\n"}
{"id": "42877561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42877561", "title": "Carrizo Christ", "text": "Carrizo Christ\n\nThe Carrizo Christ is an 11th-century ivory carving and is conserved in the Museo de León, León (Spain). The figure is high. The piece came from the Cistercian monastery of Santa María de Carrizo located some 16 miles west of León.\n\nThe figure of Christ is impressive due to the size of the head and his largue eyes wide open. Hands and feet as well are conceived out of proportion to the rest of the body.\n\n"}
{"id": "72717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72717", "title": "Categorization", "text": "Categorization\n\nCategorization is the process in which ideas and objects are recognized, differentiated, and understood. Categorization implies that objects are grouped into categories, usually for some specific purpose. Ideally, a category illuminates a relationship between the subjects and objects of knowledge. Categorization is fundamental in language, prediction, inference, decision making and in all kinds of environmental interaction. It is indicated that categorization plays a major role in computer programming.\n\nThere are many categorization theories and techniques. In a broader historical view, however, three general approaches to categorization may be identified:\n\nClassical categorization first appears in the context of Western Philosophy in the work of Plato, who, in his Statesman dialogue, introduces the approach of grouping objects based on their similar properties. This approach was further explored and systematized by Aristotle in his Categories treatise, where he analyzes the differences between classes and objects. Aristotle also applied intensively the classical categorization scheme in his approach to the classification of living beings (which uses the technique of applying successive narrowing questions such as \"Is it an animal or vegetable?\", \"How many feet does it have?\", \"Does it have fur or feathers?\", \"Can it fly?\"...), establishing this way the basis for natural taxonomy.\n\nThe classical Aristotelian view claims that categories are discrete entities characterized by a set of properties which are shared by their members. In analytic philosophy, these properties are assumed to establish the conditions which are both necessary and sufficient conditions to capture meaning.\n\nAccording to the classical view, categories should be clearly defined, mutually exclusive and collectively exhaustive. This way, any entity of the given classification universe belongs unequivocally to one, and only one, of the proposed categories.\n\nConceptual clustering is a modern variation of the classical approach, and derives from attempts to explain how knowledge is represented. In this approach, classes (clusters or entities) are generated by first formulating their conceptual descriptions and then classifying the entities according to the descriptions.\n\nConceptual clustering developed mainly during the 1980s, as a machine paradigm for unsupervised learning. It is distinguished from ordinary data clustering by generating a concept description for each generated category.\n\nCategorization tasks in which category labels are provided to the learner for certain objects are referred to as supervised classification, supervised learning, or concept learning. Categorization tasks in which no labels are supplied are referred to as unsupervised classification, unsupervised learning, or data clustering. The task of supervised classification involves extracting information from the labeled examples that allows accurate prediction of class labels of future examples. This may involve the abstraction of a rule or concept relating observed object features to category labels, or it may not involve abstraction (e.g., exemplar models). The task of clustering involves recognizing inherent structure in a data set and grouping objects together by similarity into classes. It is thus a process of \"generating\" a classification structure.\n\nConceptual clustering is closely related to fuzzy set theory, in which objects may belong to one or more groups, in varying degrees of fitness.\n\nSince the research by Eleanor Rosch and George Lakoff in the 1970s, categorization can also be viewed as the process of grouping things based on prototypes—the idea of necessary and sufficient conditions is almost never met in categories of naturally occurring things. It has also been suggested that categorization based on prototypes is the basis for human development, and that this learning relies on learning about the world via embodiment.\n\nA cognitive approach accepts that natural categories are graded (they tend to be fuzzy at their boundaries) and inconsistent in the status of their constituent members.\n\nSystems of categories are not objectively \"out there\" in the world but are rooted in people's experience. Conceptual categories are not identical for different cultures, or indeed, for every individual in the same culture.\n\nCategories form part of a hierarchical structure when applied to such subjects as taxonomy in biological classification: higher level: life-form level, middle level: generic or genus level, and lower level: the species level. These can be distinguished by certain traits that put an item in its distinctive category. But even these can be arbitrary and are subject to revision.\n\nCategories at the middle level are perceptually and conceptually the more salient. The generic level of a category tends to elicit the most responses and richest images and seems to be the psychologically basic level. Typical taxonomies in zoology for example exhibit categorization at the embodied level, with similarities leading to formulation of \"higher\" categories, and differences leading to differentiation within categories.\n\nMiscategorization can be a logical fallacy in which diverse and dissimilar objects, concepts, entities, etc. are grouped together based upon illogical common denominators, or common denominators that virtually any concept, object or entity have in common. A common way miscategorization occurs is through an over-categorization of concepts, objects or entities, and then miscategorization based upon characters that virtually all things have in common.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44321800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44321800", "title": "Coat of arms of Greater Manchester", "text": "Coat of arms of Greater Manchester\n\nThe Coat of Arms of Greater Manchester was granted to the Greater Manchester County Council upon its formation in 1974 by the College of Arms. The county council was abolished as a consequence of the Local Government Act 1985 which rendered the arms as being no longer officially in use.\n\nThe blazon of the arms is described as follows:\n\n\nAlthough the coat of arms is no longer in use by authorities, variant segments of the arms are still used today, such as the badge of the Greater Manchester Fire and Rescue Service whose arms bear a defaced version of the shield without the gold crenellations trim, and the crest which is also used by the Greater Manchester Army Cadet Force, a demi-lion carrying the banner. A version of the shield was also used as the flag which is still used to represent the county.\n\n"}
{"id": "44955199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44955199", "title": "Columbus Invitational Arts Competition", "text": "Columbus Invitational Arts Competition\n\nThe Columbus Invitational Arts Competition is a competitive arts event held annually in Columbus, Ohio since 2012. The event brings together organizations selected for inclusion due to a combination of \"artistic excellence and exceptional community involvement.\" In its first year the event drew participation from twenty-five local groups representing over three hundred individual artists, across four categories, Performing Arts, Visual Arts, Studio Recordings and Literary Arts. Literary Arts was eliminated in the second year and the divisions were further reduced to Performing Arts and Visual Arts for the third year, which was billed as a \"regional\" competition, and which drew participation from all five states surrounding Ohio (Indiana, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Kentucky and West Virginia). Organizers plan to hold the event at a national level by year six, and an international level by year ten.\n\nAll divisions are judged by a panel including one (and only one) juror from each participating organization in that division. Each piece, regardless of division or genre, is evaluated independently by each juror according to a scoring rubric on a scale from 1 to 10 in each of three areas, \"creativity\", \"craft\" and \"depth\". Scores for each piece are averaged by area, refactored to prevent juror bias and then multiplied to produce a final score between 1 and 1000.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46590527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46590527", "title": "Conservation and restoration of archaeological sites", "text": "Conservation and restoration of archaeological sites\n\nThe conservation and restoration of archaeological sites is the process of professionally protecting an archaeological site from further damage and restore it to a previous state. \nArchaeological sites require an extra level of care in regards to their conservation and restoration. Archaeology, even with through documentation, is a destructive force. This is because once a site has been even partially excavated, it cannot be put back the way it was, so in order to continue getting information from the site, it must be conserved to the current best standards.\n\nAccording to Ashurst and Shalom, archaeological sites have several phases.\n\n\nMany of these phases can be repeated and happen in a variety of orders.\n\nThe source of most damage is weather. Erosion through wind, rain, freeze-thaw, and evaporation are extremely common and other than covering the site entirely cannot be prevented. However, more dramatic factors are natural disasters: floods, fires, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, et cetera. The best way to protect archaeological sites from these larger events is to formulate a risk management plan. The basics of this are to first identify what threatens the site the most and then determine its susceptibility to it. This plan will be much like that for any structure or area, the only difference is that there are no codes that must be upheld.\n\nAn example of how some locations are dealing with this is in Florida, where they have faced many floods as well as soil erosion. A technique they have been putting into effect is easements in order to protect the archaeological sites from this risk.\n\nAn unfortunate risk to archaeological sites is development itself. As the world continues to develop and build new buildings and roadways, many times archaeological sites are damaged. An example of this is in Arizona. There was an Ancient Puebloan site that dates to A.D. 900-1350 was damaged by construction activities while putting in a new road. After the damage was assessed, it was determined that the site is not eligible for the National Register of Historic Places. However, this determination was made because there is not enough remaining for it to be of any \"information important in prehistory or history.\"\n\nWhile development cannot be discontinued simply to protect archaeological sites, having a basic understanding of what might be impacted before development takes place could help protect sites and at least the information they can provide. The Arizona Antiquities Act of 1960 is an example of some ways in which archaeological sites can be protected.\n\nVandalism is also a prominent force of damage to archaeological sites. A range of actions can be considered, including graffiti, carving, deconstruction, and burning. These can be intentional or unintentional. Intentional vandalism is when visitors know that there is an archaeological site and yet still chose to harm it in some way. Unintentional vandalism happens when the visitor vandalizes while not realizing they are at an archaeological site.\n\nAn example of an unintentional vandalism is if someone is hunting small game and they see several rock around and decide to pile them up into a berm to shoot from behind. Unbeknownst to them, those rocks were not just naturally placed but actually a collapsed wall of an ancient building, with the majority of it underground. An example of intentional vandalism is graffiti. This can be considered intentional even if the visitors are unaware of the location being an archaeological site, because there is purposeful destruction even of a natural location. Tumamoc Hill in Tucson, Arizona has been subjected to this form of vandalism for centuries. Tumamoc Hill has a site on its top and has rock art all along the sides. It appears as though visitors throughout history have decided to join in on this tradition by adding their own initials and artwork.\n\nIn order to protect an archaeological site from vandalism, a combination of techniques needs to be used. The most important is education of the public. This isn't just in terms of explaining that vandalism is bad, but rather to also educate them on the importance of these sites and what can be lost if they do chose to vandalize the site. This can be as easily done as adding signage. Another strategy is to discourage the activity through adding barriers, patrols, or even full-time observation. Another vital way to help is to routinely survey the area in order to track changes. This technique can also assist in terms of weathering damage.\n\nThroughout history, war has also caused much destruction of archaeological and historical sites. The Nazis during World War II destroyed many buildings during the planned destruction of Warsaw, including several palaces and other buildings dating back to before the 13th century. In more recent times, the Taliban destroyed the sacred Buddha statue in Afghanistan and the ISIS YouTube videos.\n\nThe prevention of this is virtually impossible without large-scale efforts such as those done by the Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives program that has become popularized by the 2014 movie \"The Monuments Men\".\n\nThe goal of archaeologists as well as other archaeological site conservators is \"To preserve the physical remains of our past and to employ them in perpetuating our historical heritage.\" The way an archaeologist can assist in this is to be as thorough in their documentation as possible. This way, even if the site is physically destroyed, there are existing records of how it once was. It is also important that archaeologists use excavation techniques that impact the site as little as possible and saves features. A current technique used is that the entire site is not actually excavated, only parts that are viewed as being able to answer research questions the best.\n\nA previous technique used was to reconstruct walls and other features of the site in order to make it look more like it did when in use, however that has been mostly going out of style and instead the preservation of how the site was found is growing greater and greater in importance.\n\nVisitors hold a large responsibility in regards to archaeological site preservation. This goes beyond just vandalism. Even just their presence can be harmful for a site. An example of this happened at Recapture Canyon in Utah. In 2007, the United States Bureau of Land Management (BLM) had to close access to the canyon to off-road vehicles due to the damage it was causing local archaeological sites. However, several visitors did not listen to this and actually created a wider trail through the canyon. Also, in May 2014 a large protest was held. This protest consisted of hundreds of protesters riding off-road vehicles through the canyon itself. Due to the large amount of people going through in such a short amount of time, it is very possible that the protest itself caused further damage.\n\nIn order to combat further damage, archaeological sites that are open to the public are given trails that do not actually impact the site while still giving visitors a good view of it. It is important for visitors to understand their own impact on archaeological sites they visit. If there is a designated path, they should remain on it. If they see artifacts, they can point to them and take pictures but not pick them up and move them.\n\nConservators are the leaders in going the extra mile for archaeological site conservation. It is these specialists that need to formulate the largest and longest-lasting plan. Martha Demas has created a great outline that conservators can rely on in order to create the most impactful plan.\n\n\nThe purpose of any technique used on an archaeological site is to strengthen its ability to resist damage and/or reinstate its cultural significance and ability to teach about its history.\n\nRestoration is the \"returning of the existing fabric of a place to a known earlier state by removing accretions or by reassembling existing components without the introduction of new material.\" The biggest difficulty in this technique is the lack of introducing new material. Ideally, this is the primary technique to be used in order to strengthen the site from further damage.\n\nReconstruction is \"returning a place to a known earlier state; distinguished from restoration by the introduction of new material into the fabric.\" The aim of restoration is to \"preserve and reveal the aesthetic and historic value of the monument and is based on respect for original material and authentic documents.\"\n\nThere is also debate on whether this is considered conservation work or not, due to potential miss use of that fact in order to over-reconstruct. The appropriateness of this technique is highly dependent upon the region, the amount of known knowledge of the site itself, as well as the actual condition of the site. The older a site, the more difficult it is to be confident in the reconstruction. Reconstruction should also be identifiable upon inspection as well as reversible. A common form of reconstruction is the re-plastering of floors and walls. Due to weathering, the plaster that originally protected surfaces has eroded away and left the surfaces vulnerable. The re-plastering then adds that layer of protection back and in many cases was at least the same technique as originally even if it isn't exactly the same material.\n\nRecreation/renovation is the \"speculative creation of a presumed earlier state on the basis of surviving evidence from that place to other sites, and on deductions drawn from that evidence using new materials.\" This is the least favorable option as it is less likely to reinstate the originality of the site and many times includes the destruction of existing authentic materials in order to add new materials. It is deemed justifiable if it is the only form of effective conservation available. \nor if conservation measures prove to be unfeasible.\n\nRelocation is a dramatic form of conservation which involves the physical movement of the site or part of the site itself. This should only take place if the site would be heavily damaged or even eliminated if it were to not be moved. A famous example of this is the move of the Abu Simbel temples. The movement of these temples was expensive as well as challenging, but if the move did not take place they would be completely underwater due to the construction of the Aswan High Dam.\n\n"}
{"id": "609283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=609283", "title": "Constitutionality", "text": "Constitutionality\n\nConstitutionality is the condition of acting in accordance with an applicable constitution; the status of a law, a procedure, or an act's accordance with the laws or guidelines set forth in the applicable constitution. When one of these (laws, procedures, or acts) directly violates the constitution, it is unconstitutional. All the rest are considered constitutional until challenged and declared otherwise.\n\nAn act (or \"statute\") enacted as law either by a national legislature or by the legislature of a subordinate level of government (such as a state or province) may be declared unconstitutional. \n\nHowever, governments do not just create laws. Governments also enforce the laws set forth in the document defining the government—in the Constitution. In the United States, the failure to seat duly elected representatives of the people following a proper election, or the failure to provide for such elections would be unconstitutional even in the absence of any legislated laws whatsoever.\n\nWhen the proper court determines that a legislative act (a law) conflicts with the constitution, it finds that law unconstitutional and declares it void in whole or in part. This is called judicial review. The portion of the law declared void is considered \"struck down\", or the entire statute is considered struck from the statute books.\n\nDepending on the type of legal system, a statute may be declared unconstitutional by any court, or only by special Constitutional courts with authority to rule on the validity of a statute.\nIn some countries, the legislature may create any law for any purpose, and there is no provision for courts to declare a law unconstitutional. This can occur either because the country has no codified constitution that laws must conform to (e.g., the United Kingdom and New Zealand) or because the constitution is codified but no court has the authority to strike down laws on the basis of it (e.g., the Netherlands and Switzerland).\n\nIn many jurisdictions the supreme court or constitutional court is the final legal arbiter that renders an opinion on whether a law or an action of a government official is constitutional.\nMost constitutions define the powers of government. Thus, national constitutions typically apply only to government actions. This means that only governments can violate the nation's constitution, but there are exceptions.\n\nA \"constitutional violation\" is thus somewhat different from the breaking of a normal law, both in terms of seriousness and punishment. Declaring a law unconstitutional does not result in the punishment of those who passed it down.\n\nThe legal encyclopedia \"American Jurisprudence\" says the following in regard to constitutionality:\nThe general rule is that an unconstitutional statute, though having the form and the name of law, is in reality no law, but is wholly void and ineffective for any purpose since unconstitutionality dates from the time of its enactment and not merely from the date of the decision so branding it; an unconstitutional law, in legal contemplation, is as inoperative as if it had never been passed ... An unconstitutional law is void. (16 Am. Jur. 2d, Sec. 178)\n\nA law in violation of an existing statute can be described as unstatutable.\n\nAn action that breaks any part of the constitution could range from minor to major. In the United Kingdom, this is more ambiguous because such breach covers those that violate principles, procedures or rights, making it difficult to establish what is unconstitutional from the constitutional. It is clearer in the case of the United States, which considers an act an infringement if it violates the spirit or the letter of the written constitution. \n\nSome examples of unconstitutional actions can be:\n\n\nMuch debate often surrounds controversial laws enacted by state legislatures and the United States Congress regarding the laws' constitutionality. Some of the controversialists against particular acts in the 19th century proposed protecting the people by applying the Principles of '98. Judicial review in the United States, however, became the usual way to resolve such controversies. Few people in the U.S. question the validity of this power and as a leading legal expert stated, \"it is as clear as such matters can be that the Framers of the Constitution specifically, if tacitly, expected that the federal courts would assume a power... to pass on the constitutionality of actions of the Congress and the President.\" Judicial review also covers the evaluation of the constitutionality of the states' actions. It is even recognized that federal judges in the U.S. are elected for life to ensure their ability to engage in judicial review.\n\nExamples of laws that were declared unconstitutional in the United States include Roe vs. Wade (1973), which declared the abortion laws in fifty U.S. states unconstitutional and the Brown v. Board of Education (1954), which nullified racial segregation in public schools.\n\nThere are different forms of constitutions. The United States Constitution is a \"Rigid Constitution\". Rigid constitutions cannot be modified in their express terms, except through such processes the constitution itself ordains.\n\n"}
{"id": "4879541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4879541", "title": "Faculty of Theology and Religion, University of Oxford", "text": "Faculty of Theology and Religion, University of Oxford\n\nThe Faculty of Theology and Religion, University of Oxford, co-ordinates the teaching of theology at the University of Oxford, England. It is part of Oxford's Humanities Division.\n\nThe Theology Faculty Centre was at 34 St Giles' in central Oxford. It is now on the second floor of the Gibson Building in the Radcliffe Observatory Quarter on Woodstock Road.\n\nOne of the first series of lectures delivered at Oxford University was on theology. As early as 1193, Alexander Neckam from St Albans gave biblical and moral lectures on the Psalms of David and the Wisdom of Solomon. One of the first university buildings was the Divinity School, begun in 1423 specifically for theology lectures.\n\nThe modern theological faculty emerges during the reform of the University of Oxford in the nineteenth century. The Final Honour School of Theology - as a route to the Bachelor of Arts degree - was introduced in 1869. Up until then, theological study was the reserve of graduates and those seeking ordination in the Church of England, who would attend a short series of lectures by the Regius Professors on basic divinity; its focus was on the Thirty-Nine Articles, Joseph Butler's \"Analogy of Religion\" and a knowledge of the Greek New Testament. Although an honour school in theology was recommended from as early as 1853, it was not until the late 1860s, amidst concerns about the declining influence of the Established Church in the university, that Edward Pusey and Henry Parry Liddon began to advocate the introduction of a separate School of Theology responsible for the training of Anglican ordinands. Its curriculum was biblical and historical in its focus, with its first examinations requiring knowledge of scripture, ecclesiastical history and patristics, dogmatic and symbolic theology, apologetics, liturgy and sacred criticism.\n\nThe faculty remained as a stronghold of the Church of England well into the 20th century, with denominatinal restrictions on the higher theological degrees (the Bachelor of Divinity and the Doctor of Divinity) and examiners in the Final Honour School of Theology only being abolished in 1920 and 1922 respectively. Still, three of the regius professorships are tied to canonries at Christ Church Cathedral, requiring their holders to be in ordained in the Church of England or in a church in communion with the Church of England. A significant proportion of the faculty's students are preparing for ordination, either as candidates for the B.A. or the B.Th.\n\nDespite the faculty's historic obligations to the Church of England, the foundation of Nonconformist and Roman Catholic institutions in Oxford from the late 19th century onwards, alongside changing academic and ecclesiastical attitudes towards theological study, resulted in the gradual transformation of theology from a purely professional discipline into an aspect of humanistic study.\n\nDuring the 20th century, Oxford established itself as an internationally significant centre of theological study with important contributions from S. R. Driver, William Sanday, C. H. Turner, B. H. Streeter, N. P. Williams, R. H. Lightfoot, G. R. Driver, Austin Farrer, Maurice Wiles, Henry Chadwick, James Barr and Arthur Peacocke. Although the department has, more recently, introduced examination papers in modern systematic theology, world religions and even separate postgraduate master's degrees in the study of religion, the Final Honour School of Theology remains primarily focused on biblical and historical study. Each undergraduate devotes at least half of his or her degree to the study of the Old Testament, New Testament, the development of Christian doctrine to AD 451 and modern Christian doctrine. Candidates can then choose four further papers from a wide selection of topics in biblical studies, history, doctrine and world religions.\n\nThe following statutory professorships are held in conjunction with a canonry of Christ Church: the professor must be ordained in priest’s orders in the Church of England or in an Anglican church in communion with the Church of England, or eligible for and prepared to accept ordination.\n\n\nThe following statutory professorship is held in conjunction with a canonry of Christ Church: the professor must be ordained in priest’s orders in the Church of England or in an episcopal church in communion with the Church of England, or eligible for and prepared to accept ordination; alternatively, in accordance the Church of England (Miscellaneous Provisions) Measure 1995 §2, the professorship may be held in conjunction with a lay canonry: the professor must be a lay member of the Church of England, or of any church in communion with it, or a minister or lay member of a church not in communion with the Church of England provided he or she is a suitably qualified member of one of the churches to which the Church of England (Ecumenical Relations) Measure 1988 refers.\n\n\n\nDaniel D. Inman, \"The Making of Modern English Theology: God and the Academy at Oxford, 1833-1945 \"(Minneapolis, 2014)\"\n\n"}
{"id": "37209664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37209664", "title": "Feminist views on sexuality", "text": "Feminist views on sexuality\n\nFeminist views on sexuality widely vary. Many feminists, particularly radical feminists, are highly critical of what they see as sexual objectification and sexual exploitation in the media and society. Radical feminists are often opposed to the sex industry, including opposition to prostitution and pornography. Other feminists define themselves as sex-positive feminists and believe that a wide variety of expressions of female sexuality can be empowering to women when they are freely chosen. Some feminists support efforts to reform the sex industry to become less sexist, such as the feminist pornography movement.\n\nThe feminist sex wars and lesbian sex wars, or simply the sex wars or porn wars, were acrimonious debates amongst feminists in the late 1970s and early 1980s. The sides were characterized by anti-porn and pro-sex groups with disagreements regarding sexuality, sexual representation, pornography, sadomasochism, the role of trans women in the lesbian community, and other sexual issues. The debate pitted anti-pornography feminism against sex-positive feminism, and the feminist movement was deeply divided as a result. The feminist sex wars are sometimes viewed as part of the division that led to the end of the second-wave feminist era and the beginning of third-wave feminism.\n\nThe two sides included anti-pornography feminists and sex-positive feminists. One of the more significant clashes between the pro-sex and anti-pornography feminists occurred at the 1982 Barnard Conference on Sexuality. Anti-pornography feminists were excluded from the events' planning committee, so they staged rallies outside the conference to show their disdain.\n\nMany feminists denounce industries such as the sex industry as examples of misogynistic exploitation. Important anti-sex industry feminists included Andrea Dworkin and Catharine MacKinnon. The pair wanted civil laws restricting pornography. They viewed male sexual dominance as the root of all female oppression, and thus condemned pornography, prostitution, and other manifestations of male sexual power. The anti-pornography movement gained ground with the creation of Women Against Violence in Pornography and Media. During the time of the sex wars, it organized marches against the creators and distributors of pornography in San Francisco and led to Women Against Pornography, Feminists Fighting Pornography, and similarly-oriented organizations and efforts across the United States.\n\nThe response by \"sex-positive feminists\" was one that promoted sex as an avenue of pleasure for women. Gayle Rubin and Patrick Califia were influential in this part of the movement. Other feminists who identify as \"sex-positive\" include Ellen Willis, Kathy Acker, Susie Bright, Carol Queen, Annie Sprinkle, Avedon Carol, Tristan Taormino, Rachel Kramer Bussel, Nina Hartley, and Betty Dodson.\n\nFeminist views of pornography range from condemnation of pornography as a form of violence against women, to an embracing of some forms of pornography as a medium of feminist expression. Feminist debate on this issue reflects larger concerns surrounding feminist views on sexuality, and is closely related to feminist debates on prostitution, BDSM, and other issues. Pornography has been one of the most divisive issues in feminism, particularly among feminists in Anglophone countries.\n\nRadical feminist opponents of pornography—such as Andrea Dworkin, Catharine MacKinnon, Robin Morgan, Diana Russell, Alice Schwarzer, Gail Dines, and Robert Jensen—argue that pornography is harmful to women, and constitutes strong causality or facilitation of violence against women. Anti-pornography feminists, notably MacKinnon, charge that the production of pornography entails physical, psychological, and/or economic coercion of the women who perform and model in it. This is said to be true even when the women are being presented as enjoying themselves. It is also argued that much of what is shown in pornography is abusive by its very nature. Gail Dines holds that pornography, exemplified by gonzo pornography, is becoming increasingly violent and that women who perform in pornography are brutalized in the process of its production.\n\nAnti-pornography feminists hold the view that pornography contributes to sexism, arguing that in pornographic performances the actresses are reduced to mere receptacles—objects—for sexual use and abuse by men. They argue that the narrative is usually formed around men's pleasure as the only goal of sexual activity, and that the women are shown in a subordinate role. Some opponents believe pornographic films tend to show women as being extremely passive, or that the acts which are performed on the women are typically abusive and solely for the pleasure of their sex partner. On-face ejaculation and anal rape are increasingly popular among men, following trends in porn. MacKinnon and Dworkin defined pornography as \"the graphic sexually explicit subordination of women through pictures or words\".\n\nPornography is seen as being a medium for women's sexual expression in this view. Sex-positive feminists view many radical feminist views on sexuality, including views on pornography, as being as oppressive as those of patriarchal religions and ideologies, and argue that anti-pornography feminist discourse ignores and trivializes women's sexual agency. Ellen Willis (who coined the term \"pro-sex feminism\") states \"As we saw it, the claim that 'pornography is violence against women' was code for the neo-Victorian idea that men want sex and women endure it.\"\n\nSex-positive feminists take a variety of views towards existing pornography. Many sex-positive feminists see pornography as subverting many traditional ideas about women that they oppose, such as ideas that women do not like sex generally, only enjoy sex in a relational context, or that women only enjoy vanilla sex. They also argue that pornography sometimes shows women in sexually dominant roles and presents women with a greater variety of body types than are typical of mainstream entertainment and fashion.\n\nMany feminists regardless of their views on pornography are opposed on principle to censorship. Even many feminists who see pornography as a sexist institution, also see censorship (including MacKinnon's civil law approach) as an evil. In its mission statement, Feminists for Free Expression argues that censorship has never reduced violence, but historically been used to silence women and stifle efforts for social change. They point to the birth control literature of Margaret Sanger, the feminist plays of Holly Hughes, and works like \"Our Bodies, Ourselves\" and \"The Well of Loneliness\" as examples of feminist sexual speech which has been the target of censorship. FFE further argues that the attempt to fix social problems through censorship, \"divert[s] attention from the substantive causes of social ills and offer a cosmetic, dangerous 'quick fix.'\" They argue that instead a free and vigorous marketplace of ideas is the best assurance for achieving feminist goals in a democratic society.\n\nAdditionally, some feminists such as Wendy Kaminer, while opposed to pornography are also opposed to legal efforts to censor or ban pornography. In the late 1970s, Kaminer worked with Women Against Pornography, where she advocated in favor of private consciousness raising efforts and against legal efforts to censor pornography. She contributed a chapter to the anti-pornography anthology, \"Take Back the Night\", wherein she defended First Amendment freedoms and explained the dangers of seeking legal solutions to the perceived problem of pornography. She opposed efforts by Catharine MacKinnon and Andrea Dworkin to define pornography as a civil rights violation, and she critiqued the pro-censorship movement in a 1992 article in \"The Atlantic\" entitled \"Feminists Against the First Amendment.\"\n\nFeminist pornography is pornography that is produced by and with feminist women. It is a small but growing segment of the pornography industry. According to Tristan Taormino, \"Feminist porn both responds to dominant images with alternative ones and creates its own iconography.\"\n\nSome pornographic actresses such as Nina Hartley, Ovidie, Madison Young, and Sasha Grey are also self-described sex-positive feminists, and state that they do not see themselves as victims of sexism. They defend their decision to perform in pornography as freely chosen, and argue that much of what they do on camera is an expression of their sexuality. It has also been pointed out that in pornography, women generally earn more than their male counterparts. Some porn performers such as Nina Hartley are active in the sex workers' rights movement.\n\nThe Swedish director and feminist Suzanne Osten voiced scepticism that \"feminist pornography\" actually exists, referring to her belief that pornography is inherently objectifying and that feminist pornography would therefore constitute an oxymoron. The American radical feminist periodical off our backs has denounced feminist pornography as \"pseudo-feminist\" and \"so-called 'feminist' pornography\".\n\nAs with many issues within the feminist movement, there exists a diversity of opinions regarding prostitution. Many of these positions can be loosely arranged into an overarching standpoint that is generally either critical or supportive of prostitution and sex work. Anti-prostitution feminists hold that prostitution is a form of exploitation of women and male dominance over women, and a practice which is the result of the existing patriarchal societal order. These feminists argue that prostitution has a very negative effect, both on the prostitutes themselves and on society as a whole, as it reinforces stereotypical views about women, who are seen as sex objects which can be used and abused by men. Other feminists hold that prostitution and other forms of sex work can be valid choices for women and men who choose to engage in it. In this view, prostitution must be differentiated from forced prostitution, and feminists should support sex worker activism against abuses by both the sex industry and the legal system. The disagreement between these two feminist stances has proven particularly contentious, and may be comparable to the feminist sex wars of the late twentieth century.\n\nA proportion of feminists are strongly opposed to prostitution, as they see the practice as a form of violence against women, which should not be tolerated by society. Feminists who hold such views on prostitution include Kathleen Barry, Melissa Farley,Julie Bindel, Sheila Jeffreys, Catharine MacKinnon and Laura Lederer.\n\nThese feminists argue that, in most cases, prostitution is not a conscious and calculated choice. They say that most women who become prostitutes do so because they were forced or coerced by a pimp or by human trafficking, or, when it is an independent decision, it is generally the result of extreme poverty and lack of opportunity, or of serious underlying problems, such as drug addiction, past trauma (such as child sexual abuse) and other unfortunate circumstances. These feminists point out that women from the lowest socioeconomic classes—impoverished women, women with a low level of education, women from the most disadvantaged racial and ethnic minorities—are overrepresented in prostitution all over the world. \"If prostitution is a free choice, why are the women with the fewest choices the ones most often found doing it?\" (MacKinnon, 1993). A large percentage of prostitutes polled in one study of 475 people involved in prostitution reported that they were in a difficult period of their lives and most wanted to leave the occupation.\nCatharine MacKinnon argues that \"In prostitution, women have sex with men they would never otherwise have sex with. The money thus acts as a form of force, not as a measure of consent. It acts like physical force does in rape.\" \n\nSome anti-prostitution scholars hold that true consent in prostitution is not possible. Barbara Sullivan says, \"\"In the academic literature on prostitution there are very few authors who argue that valid consent to prostitution is possible. Most suggest that consent to prostitution is impossible or at least unlikely\".\". \"(...) most authors suggest that consent to prostitution is deeply problematic if not impossible (...) most authors have argued that consent to prostitution is impossible. For radical feminists this is because prostitution is always a coercive sexual practice. Others simply suggest that economic coercion makes the sexual consent of sex workers highly problematic if not impossible...\". Finally, abolitionists believe no person can be said to truly consent to their own oppression and no people should have the right to consent to the oppression of others. In the words of Kathleen Barry, consent is not a \"good divining rod as to the existence of oppression, and consent to violation is a fact of oppression. Oppression cannot effectively be gauged according to the degree of \"consent,\" since even in slavery there was some consent, if consent is defined as inability to see, or feel any alternative.\" \n\nUnlike those feminists critical of prostitution, pro-sex work perspectives do not concede that prostitution sexual acts have an inherent element of coercion, exploitation, and domination. As such, pro-sex feminists instead assert that sex-work can be a positive experience for women who have employed their autonomy to make an informed decision to engage in prostitution.\n\nMany feminists, particularly those associated with the sex workers' rights movement or sex-positive feminism, argue that the act of selling sex need not inherently be exploitative; but that attempts to abolish prostitution, and the attitudes that lead to such attempts, lead to an abusive climate for sex workers that must be changed. In this view, prostitution, along with other forms of sex work, can be valid choices for the women and men who engage in it. This perspective has led to the rise since the 1970s of an international sex workers' rights movement, comprising organizations such as COYOTE, the International Prostitutes Collective, the Sex Workers Outreach Project, and other .\n\nAn important argument advanced by pro-sex work feminists such as Carol Queen highlights that all too often feminists who are critical of prostitution have failed to adequately consider the viewpoints of women who are themselves engaged in sex work, choosing instead to base their arguments in theory and outdated experiences. Feminists who do not support the radical anti-prostitution view, argue that there are serious problems with the anti-prostitution position, one of which is that, according to Sarah Bromberg, \"it evolves from a political theory that is over-verbalized, generalized, and too often uses stereotypical notions of what a prostitute is. The radical [anti-prostitution] feminist views are ... not always delineated sufficiently to support a credible theory that prostitution degrades all women\".\n\nPro-sex work feminists say that the sex industry is not a \"monolith\", that it is large and varied, that people are sex workers for many different reasons, and that it is unproductive to target prostitution as an institution. Instead, they believe things should be done to improve the lives of the people within the industry.\n\nMany feminists consider strip clubs to be insulting to women's human rights and dignity. Feminists and women's rights activists in Iceland succeeded in outlawing strip clubs in March 2010. The law officially took effect on July 31, 2010. The Icelandic feminist Siv Friðleifsdóttir was the first presenter of the bill. Johanna Sigurðardottir, Iceland's prime minister, said: \"The Nordic countries are leading the way on women's equality, recognizing women as equal citizens rather than commodities for sale.\" The politician behind the bill, Kolbrún Halldórsdóttir, said: \"It is not acceptable that women or people in general are a product to be sold.\" The vote of the Althing was praised by British radical feminist Julie Bindel, who declared Iceland to be \"the world's most feminist country.\"\n\nOthers feminists believe that stripping can be sexually empowering and feminist. The Lusty Lady is a peep show establishment in North Beach, San Francisco, that was established by a group of strippers who wanted to create a feminist, worker owned strip club. Additionally, some feminists believe that Pole dancing can be a feminist act. In 2009, a self-identified \"feminist pole dancer\" named Zahra Stardust was the Australian Sex Party's candidate in the Bradfield by-election. The concept of \"feminist pole dancing\" has been ridiculed and denounced by feminists and non-feminists alike as \"just plain daft\" and symptomatic of \"the end of feminism.\"\n\nFeminist Views on BDSM vary widely from rejection to acceptance and all points in between. As an example, the two polarizing frameworks are being compared here. The history between feminists and BDSM practitioners has been controversial. The two most extreme positions are those who believe that feminism and BDSM are mutually exclusive beliefs, and those who believe that BDSM practices are an expression of sexual freedom.\n\nA number of radical feminists, such as Andrea Dworkin and Susan Griffin, regard BDSM as a form of woman-hating violence,\n\nThe book \"\" includes essays and interviews from numerous feminists who criticize sadomasochism, including Alice Walker, Robin Morgan, Kathleen Barry, Diana E. H. Russell, Susan Star, Ti-Grace Atkinson, John Stoltenberg, Sarah Hoagland, Susan Griffin, Cerridwen Fallingstar, Audre Lorde, and Judith Butler. Feminist organizations that publicly opposed S/M/ include Lavender Menace, the New York Radical Feminists (NYRF), Women Against Violence in Pornography and Media. In 1982, a leaflet was produced by the \"Coalition for a Feminist Sexuality and Against Sadomasochism\", an ad-hoc coalition put together by Women Against Pornography to protest the Barnard Conference. The NYRF's NYRF was listed among the signatories to the leaflet.\n\nWhile many radical feminists are opposed to BDSM, other feminists view S/M as an ideal feminist expression of sexual freedom while other feminists say that BDSM, and more particularly SM, reinforce patriarchy and that these practices are contradictory to feminism. Additionally, some feminists are open about practicing BDSM. Many sex-positive feminists see BDSM as a valid form of expression of female sexuality. Some lesbian feminists practice BDSM and regard it as part of their sexual identity. Jessica Wakeman wrote of her own experience with SM activities in a follow-up interview after her article First Time For Everything: Getting Spanked was published in 2009. At the time of the interview in October, 2010, Wakeman had been writing about feminist issues, including feminism and media criticism, feminism and politics, and feminism and sex for about eight years and considered herself to be a rather active feminist. Wakeman discussed how she is able to enjoy spanking play and being dominated and still be a feminist. Like other feminist BDSM practitioners, Wakeman rejects the argument that women are taught what they enjoy and led to be submissive by a dominant sexist power structure.\n\nThere are several BDSM organizations that cater to lesbian and feminist women, including the Lesbian Sex Mafia and the group Samois that was founded by Patrick Califia and Gayle Rubin.\n\nThe feminist group Cell 16, founded in 1968 by Roxanne Dunbar, was known for its program of celibacy and separation from men, among other things. Considered too extreme by many mainstream feminists, the organization acted as a sort of hard left vanguard. It has been cited as the first organization to advance the concept of separatist feminism. In \"No More Fun and Games\", the organization's radical feminist periodical, Cell Members Roxanne Dunbar and Lisa Leghorn advised women to \"separate from men who are not consciously working for female liberation\", but advised periods of celibacy, rather than lesbian relationships, which they considered to be \"nothing more than a personal solution.\" The periodical also published Dana Densmore's article \"On Celibacy\" (October 1968), which stated in part, \"One hangup to liberation is a supposed 'need' for sex. It is something that must be refuted, coped with, demythified, or the cause of female liberation is doomed. Already we see girls, thoroughly liberated in their own heads, understanding their oppression with terrible clarity trying, deliberately and a trace hysterically, to make themselves attractive to men, men for whom they have no respect, men they may even hate, because of 'a basic sexual-emotional need.' Sex is not essential to life, as eating is. Some people go through their whole lives without engaging in it at all, including fine, warm, happy people. It is a myth that this makes one bitter, shriveled up, twisted. The big stigma of life-long virginity is on women anyway, created by men because woman's purpose in life is biological and if she doesn't fulfill that she's warped and unnatural and 'must be all cobwebs inside.'\" \n\nThe Feminists, also known as Feminists—A Political Organization to Annihilate Sex Roles, was a radical feminist group active in New York City from 1968 to 1973; it at first advocated that women practice celibacy, and later came to advocate political lesbianism. Political lesbianism embraces the theory that sexual orientation is a choice, and advocates lesbianism as a positive alternative to heterosexuality for women. Sheila Jeffreys helped develop the concept by co-writing with other members of the Leeds Revolutionary Feminist Group a pamphlet titled \"Love Your Enemy?: The Debate Between Heterosexual Feminism and Political Lesbianism\", which stated, \"We do think... that all feminists can and should be lesbians. Our definition of a political lesbian is a woman-identified woman who does not fuck men. It does not mean compulsory sexual activity with women.\" Thus, some political lesbians chose to be celibate or identified as asexual.\n\nIn April 1987 the manifesto of the Southern Women's Writing Collective, titled \"Sex resistance in heterosexual arrangements: Manifesto of the Southern Women's Writing Collective\" was read in New York City at a conference called \"The Sexual Liberals and the Attack on Feminism\".<ref name=\"Sisyphe http://sisyphe.org\"></ref> This manifesto stated in part, \"In contrast to the pro-sex movement, we are calling ourselves Women Against Sex (WAS)...The sex resister understands her act as a political one: her goal is not only personal integrity for herself but political freedom for all women. She resists on three fronts: she resists all male-constructed sexual needs, she resists the misnaming of her act as prudery and she especially resists the patriarchy's attempt to make its work of subordinating women easier by consensually constructing her desire in its own oppressive image.\" \nIn 1991 feminist activist Sonia Johnson wrote in her book \"The Ship That Sailed into the Living Room: Sex and Intimacy Reconsidered\", \"Nearly four years after I began my rebellion against relation/sex/slave Ships, experience and my Wise Old Woman are telling me that sex as we know it is a patriarchal construct and \"has\" no rightful, natural place in our lives, no authentic function or ways. Synonymous with hierarchy/control, sex is engineered as part of the siege against our wholeness and power.\" \n\nFeminist approaches to the issue of sexual orientation widely vary. Feminist views on sexual orientation are often influenced by the personal experiences of feminists, as expressed in the feminist slogan \"the personal is political.\" Because of this, many feminists view sexual orientation is a political issue and not merely a matter of individual sexual choice or preference.\n\nA 1977 paper titled \"Asexual and Autoerotic Women: Two Invisible Groups\", by Myra T. Johnson, may be the first paper explicitly devoted to asexuality in humans. In it Johnson portrays asexual women as invisible, \"oppressed by a consensus that they are nonexistent,\" and left behind by both the sexual revolution and the feminist movement.\n\nA 2010 paper written by Karli June Cerankowski and Megan Milks, titled \"New Orientations: Asexuality and Its Implications for Theory and Practice\", states that society has deemed \"[LGBT and] female sexuality as empowered or repressed. The asexual movement challenges that assumption by challenging many of the basic tenets of pro-sex feminism [in which it is] already defined as repressive or anti-sex sexualities.\"\n\nSome political lesbians identify as asexual. Political lesbianism embraces the theory that sexual orientation is a choice, and advocates lesbianism as a positive alternative to heterosexuality for women. Sheila Jeffreys helped develop the concept by co-writing with other members of the Leeds Revolutionary Feminist Group a pamphlet titled \"Love Your Enemy?: The Debate Between Heterosexual Feminism and Political Lesbianism\" which stated, \"We do think... that all feminists can and should be lesbians. Our definition of a political lesbian is a woman-identified woman who does not fuck men. It does not mean compulsory sexual activity with women.\"\n\nThe lesbian quarterly \"Common Lives/Lesbian Lives\" had a policy that all work published in CL/LL was produced by self-defined lesbians, and all of the project's volunteers were lesbians. Due to this policy, a complaint was filed with the University of Iowa Human Rights Commission by a bisexual woman whose submission to the magazine was not published.\n\nA number of women who were at one time involved in lesbian-feminist activism have since come out as bisexual after realizing their attractions to men. A widely studied example of lesbian-bisexual conflict within feminism was the Northampton Pride March during the years between 1989 and 1993, where many feminists involved debated over whether bisexuals should be included and whether or not bisexuality was compatible with feminism. Common lesbian-feminist critiques leveled at bisexuality were that bisexuality was anti-feminist, that bisexuality was a form of false consciousness, and that bisexual women who pursue relationships with men were \"deluded and desperate.\" However, tensions between bisexual feminists and lesbian feminists have eased since the 1990s, as bisexual women have become more accepted within the feminist community.\n\nNevertheless, some lesbian feminists such as Julie Bindel are still critical of bisexuality. Bindel has described female bisexuality as a \"fashionable trend\" being promoted due to \"sexual hedonism\" and broached the question of whether bisexuality even exists. She has also made tongue-in-cheek comparisons of bisexuals to cat fanciers and devil worshippers.\n\nFor further reading on feminism and bisexuality, please see \"Closer to Home: Bisexuality & Feminism\" (1992), an anthology edited by Elizabeth Reba Weise. Also please see \"Bisexuality: The Best Thing That Ever Happened to Lesbian Feminism?\", by Beth Elliot, \"The Fine Art of Labeling: The Convergence of Anarchism, Feminism, and Bisexuality\", by Lucy Friedland and Liz Highleyman, \"Bisexual Feminist Man\", by Dave Matteson, and \"Bi-Lovable Japanese Feminist\", by Kei Uwano, in the anthology \"\" (1991).\n\nIn her 2003 book \"Unpacking Queer Politics: A Lesbian Feminist Perspective\", Australian radical lesbian feminist Sheila Jeffreys advances the position that lesbian culture has been negatively affected by emulating the sexist influence of the gay male subculture of dominant/submissive sexuality. While she stresses that many gay men who were members of the gay liberation movement repudiated sadomasochism, she writes that the dominant gay male perspective has promoted sadomasochistic sexuality to the detriment of lesbians and feminist women.\n\nHowever, some gay men such as Andrea Dworkin's husband John Stoltenberg are also critical of sadomasochism and pornography and agree with the radical feminist and lesbian feminist criticisms of these practices. Stoltenberg wrote that sadomasochism eroticizes both violence and powerlessness. The gay pro-feminist author Christopher N. Kendall wrote the book \"Gay Male Pornography: An Issue Of Sex Discrimination\", advancing the idea that gay male pornography involved sex discrimination and should be banned under Canada's equality laws. He uses radical feminist theory to make the case that gay male pornography reinforces misogyny and homophobia.\n\nSome heterosexual feminists believe that they have been unfairly excluded from lesbian feminist organizations. The lesbian quarterly \"Common Lives/Lesbian Lives\" had a policy that all work published in CL/LL was produced by self-defined lesbians, and all of the project's volunteers were lesbians. Due to this policy, a complaint was filed with the University of Iowa Human Rights Commission by a heterosexual woman who believed she was discriminated against when not hired to be an intern. A complaint was also lodged with the collective by a bisexual woman whose submission to the magazine was not published.\n\nLesbians have been active in the mainstream American feminist movement. The first time lesbian concerns were introduced into the National Organization for Women came in 1969, when Ivy Bottini, an open lesbian who was then president of the New York chapter of the National Organization for Women, held a public forum titled \"Is Lesbianism a Feminist Issue?\". However, National Organization for Women president Betty Friedan was against lesbian participation in the movement. In 1969 she referred to growing lesbian visibility as a \"lavender menace\" and fired openly lesbian newsletter editor Rita Mae Brown, and in 1970 she engineered the expulsion of lesbians, including Ivy Bottini, from NOW's New York chapter. In reaction, at the 1970 Congress to Unite Women, on the first evening when all four hundred feminists were assembled in the auditorium, twenty women wearing T-shirts that read \"Lavender Menace\" came to the front of the room and faced the audience. One of the women then read their group's paper \"The Woman-Identified Woman\", which was the first major lesbian feminist statement. The group, who later named themselves \"Radicalesbians\", were among the first to challenge the heterosexism of heterosexual feminists and to describe lesbian experience in positive terms. In 1971 NOW passed a resolution declaring \"that a woman's right to her own person includes the right to define and express her own sexuality and to choose her own lifestyle,\" as well as a conference resolution stating that forcing lesbian mothers to stay in marriages or to live a secret existence in an effort to keep their children was unjust. That year NOW also committed to offering legal and moral support in a test case involving child custody rights of lesbian mothers. In 1973 the NOW Task Force on Sexuality and Lesbianism was established. In November 1977 the National Women's Conference issued the National Plan of Action, which stated in part, \"Congress, State, and local legislatures should enact legislation to eliminate discrimination on the basis of sexual and affectional preference in areas including, but not limited to, employment, housing, public accommodations, credit, public facilities, government funding, and the military. State legislatures should reform their penal codes or repeal State laws that restrict private sexual behavior between consenting adults. State legislatures should enact legislation that would prohibit consideration of sexual or affectional orientation as a factor in any judicial determination of child custody or visitation rights. Rather, child custody cases should be evaluated solely on the merits of which party is the better parent, without regard to that person's sexual and affectional orientation.\" \n\nDel Martin was the first open lesbian elected to NOW, and Del Martin and Phyllis Lyon were the first lesbian couple to join NOW.\n\nLesbian feminism is a cultural movement and political perspective, most influential in the 1970s and early 1980s (primarily in North America and Western Europe), that encourages women to direct their energies toward other women rather than men, and often advocates lesbianism as the logical result of feminism. Some key thinkers and activists are Charlotte Bunch, Rita Mae Brown, Adrienne Rich, Audre Lorde, Marilyn Frye, Mary Daly, Sheila Jeffreys and Monique Wittig (although the latter is more commonly associated with the emergence of queer theory). Lesbian feminism came together in the early 1970s out of dissatisfaction with second-wave feminism and the gay liberation movement.\n\nIn the words of radical lesbian feminist Sheila Jeffreys, \"Lesbian feminism emerged as a result of two developments: lesbians within the WLM [Women's Liberation Movement] began to create a new, distinctively feminist lesbian politics, and lesbians in the GLF (Gay Liberation Front) left to join up with their sisters\".\n\nAccording to Judy Rebick, a leading Canadian journalist and political activist for feminism, lesbians were and always have been at the heart of the women's movement, while their issues were invisible in the same movement.\n\nLesbian separatism is a form of separatist feminism specific to lesbians. Separatism has been considered by lesbians as both a temporary strategy, and as a lifelong practice but mostly the latter.\n\nLesbian separatism became popular in the 1970s as some lesbians doubted whether mainstream society or even the LGBT movement had anything to offer them.\n\nPolitical lesbianism is a phenomenon within lesbian feminism and radical feminism, primarily second-wave feminism. Political lesbianism embraces the theory that sexual orientation is a choice, and advocates lesbianism as a positive alternative to heterosexuality for women.\n\nLesbian women who have identified themselves as \"political lesbians\" include Ti-Grace Atkinson, Julie Bindel, Charlotte Bunch, Yvonne Rainer, Sheila Jeffreys. Jeffreys helped develop the concept by co-writing with other members of the Leeds Revolutionary Feminist Group a pamphlet titled \"Love Your Enemy?: The Debate Between Heterosexual Feminism and Political Lesbianism\" which argued that women should abandon heterosexuality and choose to become lesbians as a feminist act. The pamphlet stated, \"We do think... that all feminists can and should be lesbians. Our definition of a political lesbian is a woman-identified woman who does not fuck men. It does not mean compulsory sexual activity with women.\" Thus, some political lesbians choose to be celibate or identify as asexual.\n\nCommon lesbian-feminist critiques leveled at bisexuality were that bisexuality was anti-feminist, that bisexuality was a form of false consciousness, and that bisexual women who pursue relationships with men were \"deluded and desperate.\" However, tensions between bisexual feminists and lesbian feminists have eased since the 1990s, as bisexual women have become more accepted within the feminist community. Nevertheless, some lesbian feminists such as Julie Bindel are still critical of bisexuality. Bindel has described female bisexuality as a \"fashionable trend\" being promoted due to \"sexual hedonism\" and broached the question of whether bisexuality even exists. She has also made tongue-in-cheek comparisons of bisexuals to cat fanciers and devil worshippers.\n\nLesbian feminists initially faced discrimination in the National Organization for Women. Some heterosexual feminists such as Betty Friedan downplayed lesbian issues as not being central to feminist activism. In 1969 Friedan referred to growing lesbian visibility as a \"lavender menace\" and fired openly lesbian newsletter editor Rita Mae Brown, and in 1970 she engineered the expulsion of lesbians, including Ivy Bottini, from NOW's New York chapter. In reaction, at the 1970 Congress to Unite Women, on the first evening when all four hundred feminists were assembled in the auditorium, twenty women wearing T-shirts that read \"Lavender Menace\" came to the front of the room and faced the audience. One of the women then read their group's paper \"The Woman-Identified Woman\", which was the first major lesbian feminist statement. The group, who later named themselves \"Radicalesbians\", were among the first to challenge the heterosexism of heterosexual feminists and to describe lesbian experience in positive terms. In 1971 NOW passed a resolution declaring \"that a woman's right to her own person includes the right to define and express her own sexuality and to choose her own lifestyle,\" as well as a conference resolution stating that forcing lesbian mothers to stay in marriages or to live a secret existence in an effort to keep their children was unjust. That year NOW also committed to offering legal and moral support in a test case involving child custody rights of lesbian mothers. In 1973 the NOW Task Force on Sexuality and Lesbianism was established. In November 1977 the National Women's Conference issued the National Plan of Action, which stated in part, \"Congress, State, and local legislatures should enact legislation to eliminate discrimination on the basis of sexual and affectional preference in areas including, but not limited to, employment, housing, public accommodations, credit, public facilities, government funding, and the military. State legislatures should reform their penal codes or repeal State laws that restrict private sexual behavior between consenting adults. State legislatures should enact legislation that would prohibit consideration of sexual or affectional orientation as a factor in any judicial determination of child custody or visitation rights. Rather, child custody cases should be evaluated solely on the merits of which party is the better parent, without regard to that person's sexual and affectional orientation.\" \n\nFriedan eventually admitted that \"the whole idea of homosexuality made me profoundly uneasy.\" and acknowledged that she had been very square and was uncomfortable about lesbianism. \"The women's movement was not about sex, but about equal opportunity in jobs and all the rest of it. Yes, I suppose you have to say that freedom of sexual choice is part of that, but it shouldn't be the main issue ...\" She ignored lesbians in the National Organization for Women initially and objected to what she saw as demands for equal time. \"'Homosexuality ... is not, in my opinion, what the women's movement is all about.'\" While opposing all repression, she wrote, she refused to wear a purple armband or self-identify as a lesbian (although heterosexual) as an act of political solidarity, considering it not part of the mainstream issues of abortion and child care. In 1977, at the National Women's Conference, she seconded the lesbian rights resolution \"which everyone thought I would oppose\" in order to \"preempt any debate\" and move on to other issues she believed were more important and less divisive in the effort to add the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) to the U.S. Constitution.\n\nThe American radical feminist group Redstockings were strongly opposed to lesbian separatism, seeing interpersonal relationships with men as an important arena of feminist struggle, and hence seeing separatism as escapist. Like many radical feminists of the time, Redstockings saw lesbianism primarily as a political identity rather than a fundamental part of personal identity, and therefore analyzed it primarily in political terms. Redstockings were also opposed to male homosexuality, which they saw as a deeply misogynistic rejection of women. Redstockings' line on gay men and lesbians is often criticized as homophobic.\n\nQueer theory' is a field of post-structuralist critical theory that emerged in the early 1990s out of the fields of queer studies and women's studies. Queer theory has been heavily influenced by the work of feminists such as Gloria Anzaldúa, Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick, and Judith Butler. Queer theory builds both upon feminist challenges to the idea that gender is part of the essential self and upon gay/lesbian studies' close examination of the socially constructed nature of sexual acts and identities.\n\nQueer theory has been greatly influenced by feminist theory and women's studies. Many works have been written on the intersection of feminism and queer theory and how both feminist persepectives can enrich LGBTQ theory and studies and how queer perspectives can enrich feminism. Books such as \"Feminism is Queer: The Intimate Connection Between Queer and Feminist Theory\" detail the intersections between queer and feminist theory and argue that feminism itself could be construed as a \"queer\" movement.\n\nMany feminists have critiqued queer theory as either a diversion from feminism issues or as a male-dominated backlash to feminism. Lesbian feminists and radical feminists have been the most prominent critics of queer theory and queer politics. Sheila Jeffreys' \"Unpacking Queer Politics: A Lesbian Feminist Perspective\" harshly criticizes queer theory as the product of \"a powerful gay male culture\" which \"celebrated masculine privilege\" and \"enshrined a cult of masculinity.\" She repudiates queer theory as anti-lesbian, anti-feminist, and anti-women.\n\nFeminist sexology is an offshoot of traditional studies of sexology that focuses on the intersectionality of sex and gender in relation to the sexual lives of women. Feminist sexology shares many principles with the overarching field of sexology; in particular, it does not try to prescribe a certain path or \"normality\" for women's sexuality, but only observe and note the different and varied ways in which women express their sexuality. It is a young field, but one that is growing rapidly. Notable feminist sexologists include Anne Fausto-Sterling and Gayle Rubin.\n\nA notable radical feminist work on women's sexuality is Anne Koedt's The Myth of the Vaginal Orgasm, which advances the claim that vaginal orgasm is a patriarchal myth.\n\nRape culture is a culture in which rape and sexual violence are common and in which prevalent attitudes, norms, practices, and media normalize, excuse, tolerate, or even condone sexual violence. Examples of behaviors commonly associated with rape culture include victim blaming, slut-shaming, sexual objectification, and trivializing rape. Rape culture has been used to model behaviour within social groups, including prison systems where prison rape is common and conflict areas where war rape is used as psychological warfare. Entire countries have also been alleged to be rape cultures.\n\nAlthough the concept of rape culture is a generally accepted theory in feminist academia, disagreement still exists over what defines a rape culture and to what degree a given society meets the criteria to be considered a rape culture.\n\nRape culture has been observed to correlate with other social factors and behaviours. Research identifies correlation between rape myths, victim blaming and trivialisation of rape with increased incidence of racism, homophobia, ageism, classism, religious intolerance and other forms of discrimination.\n\nFeminists have been crucial to the development of the notion of sexual harassment and the codification of laws against sexual harassment. Catharine MacKinnon was among the first to write on the topic of sexual harassment. MacKinnon's book \"Sexual Harassment of Working Women: A Case of Sex Discrimination\" is the eighth most-cited American legal book published since 1978, according to a study published by Fred Shapiro in January 2000.\n\nSome liberal feminists and individualist feminists have criticized the notion of sexual harassment. Camille Paglia says that young girls can end up acting in such ways as to make sexual harassment easier, such that for example, by acting \"nice\" they can become a target. Paglia commented in an interview with Playboy, \"Realize the degree to which your niceness may invoke people to say lewd and pornographic things to you—sometimes to violate your niceness. The more you blush, the more people want to do it.\" Jane Gallop believes that sexual harassment laws have been abused by what she calls \"victim feminists\", as opposed to \"power feminists\" as she calls herself.\n\nThe concept of sexual objectification and, in particular, the objectification of women, is an important idea in feminist theory and psychological theories derived from feminism. Many feminists regard sexual objectification as objectionable and as playing an important role in gender inequality. Some social commentators, however, argue that some modern women objectify themselves as an expression of their empowerment over men, while others argue that increased sexual freedom for women, gay, and bisexual men has led to an increase of the objectification of men.\n\nThe \"male gaze\" is feminist theory that was first developed by Laura Mulvey in 1975. The male gaze occurs when the audience, or viewer, is put into the perspective of a heterosexual male. Mulvey stressed that the dominant male gaze in mainstream Hollywood films reflects and satisfies the male unconscious: most filmmakers are male, thus the voyeuristic gaze of the camera is male; male characters in the film's narratives make women the objects of their gaze; and inevitably, the spectator's gaze reflects the voyeuristic male gazes of the camera and the male actors. When feminism characterizes the \"male gaze\" certain themes appear such as, voyeurism, objectification, fetishism, scopophilia, and women as the object of male pleasure. Mary Anne Doane gives an example of how voyeurism can be seen in the male gaze. \"The early silent cinema, through its insistent inscription of scenarios of voyeurism, conceives of its spectator's viewing pleasure in terms of the peeping tom, behind the screen, reduplicating the spectator's position in relation to the woman on the screen.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "18580673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18580673", "title": "Frankenstein", "text": "Frankenstein\n\nFrankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus is a novel written by English author Mary Shelley (1797–1851) that tells the story of Victor Frankenstein, a young scientist who creates a hideous, sapient creature in an unorthodox scientific experiment. Shelley started writing the story when she was 18, and the first edition of the novel was published anonymously in London on 1 January 1818, when she was 20. Her name first appeared on the second edition, published in 1823.\n\nShelley travelled through Europe in 1814, journeying along the river Rhine in Germany with a stop in Gernsheim, which is away from Frankenstein Castle, where, two centuries before, an alchemist was engaged in experiments. Later, she travelled in the region of Geneva (Switzerland)—where much of the story takes place—and the topic of galvanism and occult ideas were themes of conversation among her companions, particularly her lover and future husband, Percy Shelley. Mary, Percy and Lord Byron decided to have a competition to see who could write the best horror story. After thinking for days, Shelley dreamt about a scientist who created life and was horrified by what he had made; her dream later evolved into the novel's story.\n\n\"Frankenstein\" is infused with elements of the Gothic novel and the Romantic movement. At the same time, it is an early example of science fiction. Brian Aldiss has argued that it should be considered the first true science fiction story because, in contrast to previous stories with fantastical elements resembling those of later science fiction, the central character \"makes a deliberate decision\" and \"turns to modern experiments in the laboratory\" to achieve fantastic results. It has had a considerable influence in literature and popular culture and spawned a complete genre of horror stories, films and plays.\n\nSince the novel's publication, the name \"Frankenstein\" has often been used to refer to the monster itself. This usage is sometimes considered erroneous, but usage commentators regard it as well-established and acceptable. In the novel, the monster is identified by words such as \"creature\", \"monster\", \"demon\", \"wretch\", \"abortion\", \"fiend\" and \"it\". Speaking to Victor Frankenstein, the monster says \"I ought to be thy Adam, but I am rather the fallen angel\" (which ties to Lucifer in \"Paradise Lost\", which the monster reads, and which relates to the disobedience of Prometheus in the book's subtitle).\n\n\"Frankenstein\" is written in the form of a frame story that starts with Captain Robert Walton writing letters to his sister. It takes place at an unspecified time in the 18th century, as the letters' dates are given as \"17—\". In the story following the letters by Walton, the readers find that Victor Frankenstein creates a monster that brings tragedy to his life.\n\nThe novel \"Frankenstein\" is written in epistolary form, documenting a fictional correspondence between Captain Robert Walton and his sister, Margaret Walton Saville. Walton is a failed writer and captain who sets out to explore the North Pole and expand his scientific knowledge in hopes of achieving fame. During the voyage, the crew spots a dog sled driven by a gigantic figure. A few hours later, the crew rescues a nearly frozen and emaciated man named Victor Frankenstein. Frankenstein has been in pursuit of the gigantic man observed by Walton's crew. Frankenstein starts to recover from his exertion; he sees in Walton the same obsession that has destroyed him, and recounts a story of his life's miseries to Walton as a warning. The recounted story serves as the frame for Frankenstein's narrative.\n\nVictor begins by telling of his childhood. Born in Naples, Italy, into a wealthy Genevan family, Victor and his brothers, Ernest and William, all three being sons of Alphonse Frankenstein by the former Caroline Beaufort, are encouraged to seek a greater understanding of the world through chemistry. As a young boy, Victor is obsessed with studying outdated theories that focus on simulating natural wonders. When Victor is five years old, his parents adopt Elizabeth Lavenza, the orphaned daughter of an expropriated Italian nobleman, with whom Victor (allegedly) later falls in love. During this period, Victor's parents, Alphonse and Caroline, take in yet another orphan, Justine Moritz, who becomes William's nanny.\n\nWeeks before he leaves for the University of Ingolstadt in Germany, his mother dies of scarlet fever; Victor buries himself in his experiments to deal with the grief. At the university, he excels at chemistry and other sciences, soon developing a secret technique to impart life to non-living matter. Eventually, he undertakes the creation of a humanoid, but due to the difficulty in replicating the minute parts of the human body, Victor makes the Creature tall, about in height and proportionally large. Despite Victor selecting its features as beautiful, upon animation the creature is instead hideous, with watery white eyes and yellow skin that barely conceals the muscles and blood vessels underneath. Repulsed by his work, Victor flees when it awakens. While wandering the streets, he meets his childhood friend, Henry Clerval, and takes Henry back to his apartment, fearful of Henry's reaction if he sees the monster. However, the Creature has escaped.\n\nVictor falls ill from the experience and is nursed back to health by Henry. After a four-month recovery, he returns home when he learns of the murder of his brother William. Upon arriving in Geneva, Victor sees the Creature near the crime scene and climbing a mountain, leading him to believe his creation is responsible. Justine Moritz, William's nanny, is convicted of the crime after William's locket, which had contained a miniature portrait of Caroline, is found in her pocket. Victor is helpless to stop her from being hanged, as he knows no one would believe his story.\n\nRavaged by grief and guilt, Victor retreats into the mountains. The Creature finds him and pleads for Victor to hear his tale.\n\nIntelligent and articulate, the Creature relates his first days of life, living alone in the wilderness and finding that people were afraid of and hated him due to his appearance, which led him to fear and hide from them. While living in an abandoned structure connected to a cottage, he grew fond of the poor family living there, and discreetly collected firewood for them. Secretly living among the family for months, the Creature learned to speak by listening to them and he taught himself to read after discovering a lost satchel of books in the woods. When he saw his reflection in a pool, he realized his physical appearance was hideous, and it terrified him as it terrifies normal humans. Nevertheless, he approached the family in hopes of becoming their friend. Initially he was able to befriend the blind father figure of the family, but the rest of them were frightened and they all fled their home, resulting in the Creature leaving, disappointed. He traveled to Victor's family estate using details from Victor's journal, murdered William, and framed Justine.\n\nThe Creature demands that Victor create a female companion like himself. He argues that as a living being, he has a right to happiness. The Creature promises that he and his mate will vanish into the South American wilderness, never to reappear, if Victor grants his request. Should Victor refuse his request, The Creature also threatens to kill Victor's remaining friends and loved ones and not stop until he completely ruins him.\n\nFearing for his family, Victor reluctantly agrees. The Creature says he will watch over Victor's progress.\n\nClerval accompanies him to England, but they separate at Victor's insistence at Perth, Scotland. Victor suspects that the Creature is following him. Working on the female creature on the Orkney Islands, he is plagued by premonitions of disaster, such as the female hating the Creature or becoming more evil than him, but more particularly the two creatures might lead to the breeding of a race that could plague mankind. He tears apart the unfinished female creature after he sees the Creature, who had indeed followed Victor, watching through a window. The Creature later confronts and tries to threaten Victor into working again, but Victor is convinced that the Creature is evil and that its mate would be evil as well, and the pair would threaten all humanity. Victor destroys his work and the Creature vows that he will \"be with [him] on [his] wedding night\". Victor interprets this as a threat upon his life, believing that the Creature will kill him after he finally becomes happy. When Victor lands in Ireland, he is soon imprisoned for Clerval's murder, as the Creature had strangled Clerval to death and left the corpse to be found where his creator had arrived, causing the latter to suffer another mental breakdown in prison. After being acquitted, Victor returns home with his father, who has restored to Elizabeth some of her father's fortune.\n\nIn Geneva, Victor is about to marry Elizabeth and prepares to fight the Creature to the death, arming himself with pistols and a dagger. The night following their wedding, Victor asks Elizabeth to stay in her room while he looks for \"the fiend\". While Victor searches the house and grounds, the Creature strangles Elizabeth to death. From the window, Victor sees the Creature, who tauntingly points at Elizabeth's corpse; Victor tries to shoot him, but the Creature escapes. After Victor gets back to Geneva, Victor's father, weakened by age and by the death of his precious Elizabeth, dies a few days later. Seeking revenge, Victor pursues the Creature to the North Pole, but collapses from exhaustion and hypothermia before he can find his quarry.\n\nAt the end of Victor's narrative, Captain Walton resumes the telling of the story, closing the frame around Victor's recounting. A few days after the Creature vanished, the ship becomes trapped in pack ice and multiple crewmen die in the cold, before the rest of Walton's crew insists on returning south once it is freed. Upon hearing the crew's pleas to their captain, Victor, angered, lectures them with a powerful speech: it is hardship, not comfort and easiness, that defines a glorious undertaking such as theirs; he urges them to be men, not cowards. The ship is freed and Walton, owing it to the will of his men, albeit regretfully, decides to return South. Victor, even though in very weak condition, states that he will go on by himself.\n\nVictor dies shortly thereafter, telling Walton, with his last words, to seek \"happiness in tranquillity and avoid ambition\". Walton discovers the Creature on his ship, mourning over Victor's body. The Creature tells Walton that Victor's death has not brought him peace; rather, his crimes have left him completely alone. The Creature vows to kill himself so that no others will ever know of his existence. Walton watches as the Creature drifts away on an ice raft that is soon \"lost in darkness and distance\", never to be seen again.\n\nThe author, Mary Shelley, had a tragic life from the beginning. Shelley's mother, Mary Wollstonecraft, died shortly after giving birth to her. Since Shelley did not know her mother it made her have a close attachment to her father. Shelley's father, William Godwin, hired a nurse to care for her and her half sister but she left and her father ended up remarrying. Shelley's stepmother did not like the close bond Shelley had with her father. This caused Godwin to favor his other two daughters and sons. However, none of the neglect stopped Shelley from becoming the great female author she was.\n\nHer father was a famous author himself and her education was of great importance. Shelley grew up surrounded by many different writers and persons of political importance because of her father. This inspired her authorship at an early age. Shelley met Percy Bysshe Shelley, who later became her husband, at the age of sixteen while he was visiting with her father at their home. Her father did not agree with their relationship so they fled to France along with her sister, Jane. Later, she gave birth to their first child and soon after lost the child.\n\nBoth Mary and Percy went away with Jane to visit her lover Lord Byron, in Geneva during the summer. Percy and Mary became good friends with Byron and used their time with him to discuss literature, politics, and science. One evening after being trapped in the house because of storms Byron suggested they all have a competition of writing the best ghost story. This is how Frankenstein was brought to life. Mary was eighteen years old when she wrote this novel. Shelley won the contest by her creation of the novel, Frankenstein. \n\nShelley was heavily influenced by both of her parents works. Her father was famous for Enquiry Concerning Political Justice and her mother famous for A Vindication of the Rights of Woman. Her father's novels also influenced her writing of \"Frankenstein\". These novels included Things as They Are; or, The Adventures of Caleb Williams, \"St. Leon,\" and \"Fleetwood\". All of these books were set in Switzerland, similar to the setting in Frankenstein. Some major themes of social affections and the renewal of life that appear in Shelley's novel stem from these works she had in her possession. Other literary influences that appear in \"Frankenstein\" are Pygmalion (play) and Ovid with the use of an individual lacking intelligence and those individuals identifying the problems with society. Ovid also inspires the use of Prometheus in Shelley's title. \n\nHer time spent with Lord Byron, Percy Shelley, her baby, and her sister Jane influenced her creation of Frankenstein as well. Percy and Bryon's discussion on life and death surrounded many scientific geniuses of the time. They discussed ideas from Charles Darwin and the experiments from Luigi Galvani. Mary listened intently to these conversations and the ideas of Darwin and Galvani were both present in her novel. The horrors of not being able to write a story for the contest and her hard life also influenced the themes within \"Frankenstein.\" The themes of loss , guilt, and the consequences of defying nature present in the novel all developed from Mary Shelley's own life. The loss of her mother, the relationship with her father, and the death of her first child created the monster and his separation from parental guidance. Guilt stemmed from her not feeling good enough for Percy because of the loss of their child.   \n\n\nDuring the rainy summer of 1816, the \"Year Without a Summer\", the world was locked in a long cold volcanic winter caused by the eruption of Mount Tambora in 1815. Mary Shelley, aged 18, and her lover (and later husband) Percy Bysshe Shelley visited Lord Byron at the Villa Diodati by Lake Geneva in Switzerland. The weather was consistently too cold and dreary that summer to enjoy the outdoor holiday activities they had planned, so the group retired indoors until dawn.\n\nSitting around a log fire at Byron's villa, the company amused themselves by reading German ghost stories translated into French from the book \"Fantasmagoriana\", then Byron proposed that they \"each write a ghost story\". Unable to think of a story, young Mary became anxious: \"\"Have you thought of a story?\" I was asked each morning, and each morning I was forced to reply with a mortifying negative.\" During one evening in the middle of summer, the discussions turned to the nature of the principle of life. \"Perhaps a corpse would be re-animated\", Mary noted, \"galvanism had given token of such things\". It was after midnight before they retired, and unable to sleep, she became possessed by her imagination as she beheld the \"grim terrors\" of her \"waking dream\".\n\nIn September 2011, astronomer Donald Olson, after a visit to the Lake Geneva villa the previous year and inspecting data about the motion of the moon and stars, concluded that her \"waking dream\" took place \"between 2 a.m. and 3 a.m.\" on 16 June 1816, several days after the initial idea by Lord Byron that they each write a ghost story.\n\nShe began writing what she assumed would be a short story. With Percy Shelley's encouragement, she expanded the tale into a full-fledged novel. She later described that summer in Switzerland as the moment \"when I first stepped out from childhood into life\". Shelley wrote the first four chapters in the weeks following the suicide of her half-sister Fanny. This was one of many personal tragedies that impacted Shelley's work. Shelley's first child died in infancy, and when she began composing \"Frankenstein\" in 1816, she was likely nursing her second child, who would also be dead at \"Frankenstein\"'s publication.\n\nByron managed to write just a fragment based on the vampire legends he heard while travelling the Balkans, and from this John Polidori created \"The Vampyre\" (1819), the progenitor of the romantic vampire literary genre. Thus two seminal horror tales originated from the conclave.\n\nThe group talked about Enlightenment and Counter-Enlightenment ideas as well. Shelley believed the Enlightenment idea that society could progress and grow if political leaders used their powers responsibly; however, she also believed the Romantic ideal that misused power could destroy society (Bennett 36–42).\n\nShelly wrote much of the book while residing in a lodging house in the centre of Bath in 1816.\n\nShelley's manuscripts for the first three-volume edition in 1818 (written 1816–1817), as well as the fair copy for her publisher, are now housed in the Bodleian Library in Oxford. The Bodleian acquired the papers in 2004, and they belong now to the Abinger Collection. In 2008, the Bodleian published a new edition of \"Frankenstein\", edited by Charles E. Robinson, that contains comparisons of Mary Shelley's original text with Percy Shelley's additions and interventions alongside.\n\nShelley completed her writing in April/May 1817, and \"Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus\" was published on 1 January 1818 by the small London publishing house Lackington, Hughes, Harding, Mavor, & Jones. It was issued anonymously, with a preface written for Mary by Percy Bysshe Shelley and with a dedication to philosopher William Godwin, her father. It was published in an edition of just 500 copies in three volumes, the standard \"triple-decker\" format for 19th-century first editions.\n\nThe second edition of \"Frankenstein\" was published on 11 August 1823 in two volumes (by G. and W. B. Whittaker) following the success of the stage play \"Presumption; or, the Fate of Frankenstein\" by Richard Brinsley Peake. This edition credited Mary Shelley as the book's author on its title page.\n\nOn 31 October 1831, the first \"popular\" edition in one-volume appeared, published by Henry Colburn & Richard Bentley. This edition was heavily revised by Mary Shelley, partially to make the story less radical. It included a lengthy new preface by the author, presenting a somewhat embellished version of the genesis of the story. This edition is the one most widely published and read now, although a few editions follow the 1818 text. Some scholars prefer the original version, arguing that it preserves the spirit of Mary Shelley's vision (see Anne K. Mellor's \"Choosing a Text of \"Frankenstein\" to Teach\" in the W. W. Norton Critical edition).\n\nIn 2008, a new edition of the novel, titled \"The Original Frankenstein\", edited by Charles E. Robinson, was published. Robinson examined the original manuscript by Mary Shelley and noted the edits that Percy Bysshe Shelley made to it.\n\nPart of Frankenstein's rejection of his creation is the fact that he does not give it a name, which causes a lack of identity. Instead it is referred to by words such as \"wretch\", \"monster\", \"creature\", \"demon\", \"devil\", \"fiend\", and \"it\". When Frankenstein converses with the creature in Chapter 10, he addresses it as \"vile insect\", \"abhorred monster\", \"fiend\", \"wretched devil\", and \"abhorred devil\".\n\nDuring a telling of \"Frankenstein\", Shelley referred to the creature as \"Adam\". Shelley was referring to the first man in the Garden of Eden, as in her epigraph:\n\nAlthough the creature would be described in later works as a composite of whole body parts grafted together from cadavers and reanimated by the use of electricity, this description is not consistent with Shelley's work; both the use of electricity and the cobbled-together image of Frankenstein's monster were more the result of James Whale's popular 1931 film adaptation of the story, and other early motion-picture works based upon the creature. In Shelley's original work, Dr. Frankenstein discovers a previously unknown but elemental principle of life, and that insight allows him to develop a method to imbue vitality into inanimate matter, though the exact nature of the process is left largely ambiguous. After a great deal of hesitation in exercising this power, Frankenstein spends two years painstakingly constructing the creature's proportionally large body (one anatomical feature at a time, from raw materials supplied by \"the dissecting room and the slaughter-house\"), which he then brings to life using his unspecified process.\n\nThe creature has often been mistakenly called \"Frankenstein\". In 1908 one author said \"It is strange to note how well-nigh universally the term \"Frankenstein\" is misused, even by intelligent people, as describing some hideous monster\". Edith Wharton's \"The Reef\" (1916) describes an unruly child as an \"infant Frankenstein.\" David Lindsay's \"The Bridal Ornament\", published in \"The Rover\", 12 June 1844, mentioned \"the maker of poor Frankenstein.\" After the release of Whale's cinematic \"Frankenstein\", the public at large began speaking of the creature itself as \"Frankenstein\". This also occurs in Frankenstein films, including \"Bride of Frankenstein\" (1935) and several subsequent films, as well as in film titles such as \"Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein\". Furthermore, the 1939 film \"Son of Frankenstein\" introduced an evil laboratory assistant, Ygor (Bela Lugosi), who never existed in the original narrative.\n\nMary Shelley maintained that she derived the name \"Frankenstein\" from a dream-vision. Despite her public claims of originality, however, a number of other sources have been suggested as Shelley's actual inspiration. The German name \"Frankenstein\" means \"stone of the Franks\", and it is associated with various places in Germany, including Frankenstein Castle (\"Burg Frankenstein\") in Darmstadt, Hesse, and Frankenstein Castle in Frankenstein, a town in the Palatinate. There is also a castle called Frankenstein in Bad Salzungen, Thuringia, and a municipality called Frankenstein in Saxony. Until 1945, Ząbkowice Śląskie, now a city in Lower Silesian Voivodeship, Poland, was mainly populated by Germans and named \"Frankenstein\" in German, and was the site of a in 1606, which has been suggested as an inspiration to the author. Finally, the name is borne by the aristocratic House of Franckenstein from Franconia.\n\nRadu Florescu argues that Mary and Percy Shelley visited Frankenstein Castle near Darmstadt in 1814 during their return to England from their elopement to Switzerland. It was at this castle that a notorious alchemist, Conrad Dippel, had experimented with human bodies, and Florescu reasons that Mary suppressed mention of her visit in order to maintain her public claim of originality. A literary essay by A. J. Day supports Florescu's position that Mary Shelley knew of and visited Frankenstein Castle before writing her debut novel. Day includes details of an alleged description of the Frankenstein castle that exists in Mary Shelley's 'lost' journals. According to Jörg Heléne, the 'lost journals', as well as Florescu's claims, cannot be verified.\n\nA possible interpretation of the name Victor is derived from \"Paradise Lost\" by John Milton, a great influence on Shelley (a quotation from \"Paradise Lost\" is on the opening page of \"Frankenstein\" and Shelley even has the monster himself read it). Milton frequently refers to God as \"the Victor\" in \"Paradise Lost\", and Shelley sees Victor as playing God by creating life. In addition, Shelley's portrayal of the monster owes much to the character of Satan in \"Paradise Lost\"; indeed, the monster says, after reading the epic poem, that he empathizes with Satan's role in the story.\n\nThere are many similarities between Victor and Percy Shelley, Mary's husband. Victor was a pen name of Percy Shelley's, as in the collection of poetry he wrote with his sister Elizabeth, \"Original Poetry by Victor and Cazire\". There is speculation that one of Mary Shelley's models for Victor Frankenstein was Percy, who at Eton had \"experimented with electricity and magnetism as well as with gunpowder and numerous chemical reactions\", and whose rooms at Oxford were filled with scientific equipment.\n\nPercy Shelley was the first-born son of a wealthy country squire with strong political connections and a descendant of Sir Bysshe Shelley, 1st Baronet of Castle Goring, and Richard Fitzalan, 10th Earl of Arundel. Victor's family is one of the most distinguished of that republic and his ancestors were counselors and syndics. Percy had a sister named Elizabeth; Victor had an adopted sister named Elizabeth.\n\nOn 22 February 1815, Mary Shelley gave birth to a baby two months prematurely, and the baby died two weeks later. Percy did not care about the condition of this premature infant and left with Claire, Mary's stepsister, for a lurid affair. When Victor saw the creature come to life he fled the apartment, though the newborn creature approached him, as a child would a parent. The question of Victor's responsibility to the creature is one of the main themes of the book.\n\n\"The Modern Prometheus\" is the novel's subtitle (though some modern editions now drop the subtitle, mentioning it only in an introduction). Prometheus, in later versions of Greek mythology, was the Titan who created mankind at the behest of Zeus. He made a being in the image of the gods that could have a spirit breathed into it. Prometheus taught man to hunt, read, and heal their sick, but after he tricked Zeus into accepting poor-quality offerings from humans, Zeus kept fire from mankind. Prometheus, being the creator, took back the fire from Zeus to give to man. When Zeus discovered this, he sentenced Prometheus to be eternally punished by fixing him to a rock of Caucasus, where each day an eagle would peck out his liver, only for the liver to regrow the next day because of his immortality as a god. He was intended to suffer alone for eternity, but eventually Heracles (Hercules) released him.\n\nPrometheus was also a myth told in Latin, but was a very different story. In this version Prometheus makes man from clay and water, again a very relevant theme to \"Frankenstein\", as Victor rebels against the laws of nature (how life is naturally made) and as a result is punished by his creation.\n\nThe Titan in the Greek mythology of Prometheus parallels Victor Frankenstein. Victor's work by creating man by new means reflects the same innovative work of the Titan in creating humans.\n\nSome have argued that Mary Shelley saw Prometheus not as a hero but rather as something of a devil, and blamed him for bringing fire to man and thereby seducing the human race to the vice of eating meat (fire brought cooking which brought hunting and killing).\n\nByron was particularly attached to the play \"Prometheus Bound\" by Aeschylus, and Percy Shelley would soon write his own \"Prometheus Unbound\" (1820). The term \"Modern Prometheus\" was actually coined by Immanuel Kant in reference to Benjamin Franklin and his experiments with electricity.\n\nShelley incorporated a number of different sources into her work, one of which was the Promethean myth from Ovid. The influence of John Milton's \"Paradise Lost\", and Samuel Taylor Coleridge's \"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner\", are also clearly evident within the novel. Mary is likely to have acquired some ideas for Frankenstein's character from Humphry Davy's book \"Elements of Chemical Philosophy\", in which he had written that \"science has ... bestowed upon man powers which may be called creative; which have enabled him to change and modify the beings around him ...\". References to the French Revolution run through the novel; a possible source may lie in 's \"Le Miroir des événemens actuels, ou la Belle au plus offrant\" (1790): a political parable about scientific progress featuring an inventor named Frankésteïn who creates a life-sized automaton.\n\nPercy Bysshe Shelley's 1816 poem \"Mutability\" is also quoted and its theme of the role of the subconscious is discussed in prose. The Creature also quotes a passage of the poem. His name has never appeared as the author of the poem although other poets are cited by name in the novel, implying that Mary wrote the poem and developed the psychological ideas. Another potential reason is to conceal his contributions to the novel.\n\nWithin the past thirty years or so, many writers and historians have attempted to associate several then popular natural philosophers (now called physical scientists) with Shelley's work on account of several notable similarities. Two of the most notable natural philosophers among Shelley's contemporaries were Giovanni Aldini, who made many public attempts at human reanimation through bio-electric Galvanism in London and Johann Konrad Dippel, who was supposed to have developed chemical means to extend the life span of humans. While Shelley was obviously aware of both these men and their activities, she makes no mention of or reference to them or their experiments in any of her published or released notes.\n\n\"Frankenstein\" has been both well received and disregarded since its anonymous publication in 1818. Critical reviews of that time demonstrate these two views, along with confused speculation as to the identity of the author. The \"Belle Assemblée\" described the novel as \"very bold fiction\" (139). The \"Quarterly Review\" stated that \"the author has the power of both conception and language\" (185). Sir Walter Scott, writing in \"Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine\", congratulated \"the author's original genius and happy power of expression\" (620), although he is less convinced about the way in which the monster gains knowledge about the world and language. The \"Edinburgh Magazine\" and \"Literary Miscellany\" hoped to see \"more productions from this author\" (253). On the other hand, the \"Quarterly Review\" described it \"a tissue of horrible and disgusting absurdity\".\n\nIn two other reviews where the author is known as the daughter of William Godwin, the criticism of the novel makes reference to the feminine nature of Mary Shelley. The \"British Critic\" attacks the novel's flaws as the fault of the author: \"The writer of it is, we understand, a female; this is an aggravation of that which is the prevailing fault of the novel; but if our authoress can forget the gentleness of her sex, it is no reason why we should; and we shall therefore dismiss the novel without further comment\" (438). \"The Literary Panorama and National Register\" attacks the novel as a \"feeble imitation of Mr. Godwin's novels\" produced by the \"daughter of a celebrated living novelist\" (414). Despite the reviews, \"Frankenstein\" achieved an almost immediate popular success. It became widely known especially through melodramatic theatrical adaptations—Mary Shelley saw a production of \"Presumption; or The Fate of Frankenstein\", a play by Richard Brinsley Peake, in 1823. A French translation appeared as early as 1821 (\"Frankenstein: ou le Prométhée Moderne\", translated by Jules Saladin).\n\nCritical reception of \"Frankenstein\" has been largely positive since the mid-20th century. Major critics such as M. A. Goldberg and Harold Bloom have praised the \"aesthetic and moral\" relevance of the novel, although there are also critics such as Germaine Greer, who criticized the novel as terrible due to technical and narrative defects (such as it featuring three narrators that speak in the same way). In more recent years the novel has become a popular subject for psychoanalytic and feminist criticism: Lawrence Lipking states: \"[E]ven the Lacanian subgroup of psychoanalytic criticism, for instance, has produced at least half a dozen discrete readings of the novel\". The novel today is generally considered to be a landmark work of romantic and gothic literature, as well as science fiction.\n\nFilm director Guillermo del Toro describes \"Frankenstein\" as \"the quintessential teenage book\", adding \"You don't belong. You were brought to this world by people that don't care for you and you are thrown into a world of pain and suffering, and tears and hunger. It's an amazing book written by a teenage girl. It's mind-blowing.\" Professor of philosophy Patricia MacCormack says the creature, brought to life by Victor Frankenstein, addresses the most fundamental human questions: \"It's the idea of asking your maker what your purpose is. Why are we here, what can we do?\"\n\nThere are numerous novels retelling or continuing the story of Frankenstein and his monster.\n\n\nLoose adaptations\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1033723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1033723", "title": "Gabès", "text": "Gabès\n\nGabès ( \")\", also spelled \"Cabès\", \"Cabes\", \"Kabes\", \"Gabbs\" and \"Gaps\", is the capital city of the Gabès Governorate in Tunisia. It is located on the coast of the Gulf of Gabès. With a population of 152,921, Gabès is the 6th largest Tunisian city.\n\nTakapes, the ancient name of Gabès, is a Numidian (Berber) toponym. Later, the prefix \"Ta\" (meaning \"to\" in Berber) was dropped, and the place became known as Kapes. As in Arabic the sound /p/ is unknown, Kapes became known as Kabes, and later known as Gabès.\n\nGabès is the ancient \"Tacapae\" or \"Tacape\" (Τακάπη in Ancient greek) or \"Tacapes\" of the Roman province of Tripolitania.\n\nStrabo refers to this city as an important entrepot of the Lesser Syrtis. Pliny (18.22) remarks that the waters of a copious fountain at Tacape were divided among the cultivators according to a system where each had the use of the water during a certain interval of time.\n\nThe \"Tabula Peutingeriana\" shows Tacape between Marcomades and Sabratha.\n\nTacapae became a Christian bishopric that, no longer being a residential see, is included in the Catholic Church's list of titular sees.\n\nThree of its bishops are known:\n\n\n\nGabès is one of the biggest industrial cities in Tunisia. Most industries are chemical oriented, this is why the city offers one of the best chemistry degrees in Africa from the University of Gabès. The main industries are:\n\nThe fast-growing numbers of factories has resulted in fairly serious pollution of the area and of the Gulf of Gabès. In recent years the government is working on new programs and laws to decrease the amount of pollution.\n\nGabès – Matmata International Airport is in the city.\n\nGabès will soon be upgraded with one light rail system under the number 7 that will run from the railway station to the port of Gabès. Featuring rolling stock made by Alstom, Gabès will receive 15 new train sets.\n\nGabès is terminus of a narrow gauge branch railway from the capital, and is the nearest railway station to the Libyan border at Ras Ajdir.\nGabès has also one of the biggest ports in Tunisia; it is used usually to ship the mineral products from the city of Gafsa.\n\nGabès will be linked soon with the national motorway A1 (Tunis – Ras Ajdir)\n\nGabès has a semi-arid climate, characterized by a hot and dry season and a cool and arid season.\n\nGabès is famous for its traditional Souqs in Jarah; it is known also for its attractive beach and the unusual seaside oasis (Gabès is located on the coast of the Mediterranean). The best parts of the beach are in the south of the city (Road to Djerba). The best one is the \"Lemawa\" or \"Lemaya\" beach. The government is planning to build a tourist zone there in the coming years.\nGabès has a unique feature in the world, in this city you find the mountain, the sea, the oasis and the desert. The streets of Gabès come alive at night during Ramadan, where sook's (shops) are open on the streets and parties happen almost everyday in the night during Ramadan.\nThe most visited place in Gabès is the town Matmata.\n\nPlace to visit: \n\nThis site was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on May 28, 2008, in the Cultural category.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47863127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47863127", "title": "Geological period", "text": "Geological period\n\nA geological period is one of several subdivisions of geologic time enabling cross-referencing of rocks and geologic events from place to place.\n\nThese periods form elements of a hierarchy of divisions into which geologists have split the Earth's history.\n\nEons and eras are larger subdivisions than periods while periods themselves may be divided into epochs and ages.\n\nThe rocks formed during a period belong to a stratigraphic unit called a system.\n\nThe twelve currently recognised periods of the present eon – the Phanerozoic – are defined by the International Commission on Stratigraphy (ICS) by reference to the stratigraphy at particular locations around the world.\n\nIn 2004 the Ediacaran Period of the latest Precambrian was defined in similar fashion, and was the first such newly designated period in 130 years; but earlier periods are simply defined by age.\n\nA consequence of this approach to the Phanerozoic periods is that the ages of their beginnings and ends can change from time to time as the absolute age of the chosen rock sequences, which define them, is more precisely determined.\n\nThe set of rocks (sedimentary, igneous or metamorphic) that formed during a geological period is known as a system, so for example the 'Jurassic System' of rocks was formed during the 'Jurassic Period' (between 201 and 145 million years ago).\n\nThe following table includes all currently recognized periods. The table omits the time before 2500 million years ago, which is not divided into periods.\n\nSee Geologic time scale#Proposed Precambrian timeline for another set of periods 4600–541 MYA.\n\nIn a steady effort ongoing since 1974, the International Commission on Stratigraphy has been working to correlate the world's local stratigraphic record into one uniform planet-wide benchmarked system.\n\nAmerican geologists have long considered the Mississippian and Pennsylvanian to be periods in their own right though the ICS now recognises them both as 'subperiods' of the Carboniferous Period recognised by European geologists. Cases like this in China, Russia and even New Zealand with other geological eras has slowed down the uniform organization of the stratigraphic record.\n\nNotable changes\n\n"}
{"id": "24135571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24135571", "title": "George Shevelov", "text": "George Shevelov\n\nGeorge Yurii Shevelov (Schneider) (, ) (pseud: Yurii Sherekh, Hryhory Shevchuk, Šerech, Sherekh, Sher; Гр. Ш., Ю. Ш. and others) (December 17, 1908 – April 12, 2002) was a Ukrainian-American professor, linguist, philologist, essayist, literary historian, and literary critic. A longtime professor of Slavic philology at Columbia University, he challenged the prevailing notion of a unified East Slavic language from which Ukrainian, Belarusian and Russian later developed, instead proposing that these languages emerged independently from one another.\n\nGeorge Yurii Shevelov was born Yurii Shneider in Kharkiv, Ukraine, then part of the Russian Empire in 1908. Some sources however, indicate Kharkiv as his place of birth (his mother incorrectly stated his birthplace in order to escape persecution). His family moved to Kharkiv in 1910. His father, Vladimir Karlovich Shnaider (Schneider) was a high ranking Russian Imperial Army officer who held the rank of major-general. His father and mother (Varvara Meder, who originally was of noble birth from an established Moscow family) were both ethnic Germans. When Russia declared war on the German Empire in 1914, his father – a fervent Russian monarchist – decided to russify the family name. Shnaider choose the Russian equivalent of his surname = Shevelov, and also changed the patronymic “Karlovich” to “Yuryevich”. Such changes required a personal petition to the Tsar, and in his case it was personally granted by Nikolai II in 1916. During the World War I, Yurii and his mother moved to Kharkiv. At the beginning of 1918, Shevelov’s father was missing in action and was presumed killed.\n\nIn Kharkiv, Yurii initially attended the E.Druzhkova Private School, then at 3rd State Boy's Gymnasium, and then continued his education at the Technical School #7 ().\n\nIn 1925 Shevelov graduated from the First Kharkiv Trade and Industry Union school (). From 1925 till 1927 he worked as a statistician and archive keeper for South Chemical Trust. In 1927–1931 he attended classes at the literary-linguistic branch of the Kharkiv People's Education Institute. From August 1931 he was employed as a Ukrainian language school teacher. From 1932 till 1938 he was employed as a Ukrainian language teacher at the Ukrainian Communist Newspaper Technical School (). From 1933 till 1939 he also taught Ukrainian language at the Ukrainian Communist Institute for Journalism. From September 1936 he was a postgraduate student under the guidance of Leonid Bulakhovsky. In 1939 he taught the history of the Ukrainian language and literature. From November 1939 he became the assistant professor and deputy chair of the philology department of the Kharkiv Pedagogical Institute. In 1941 he became a research fellow at the Linguistic Institute of the Academy of Science of the Ukrainian SSR. In that same year he was pressured to become an NKVD informer.\n\nIn 1934 Shevelov was the co-author of a Grammar of the Ukrainian language in two volumes. This text was reprinted in 1935 and 1936.\n\nShevelov was able to avoid induction into the Red Army and remained in Kharkiv following the Soviet evacuation, and after the Wehrmacht troops entered Kharkiv on 25 October 1941. He joined the “New Ukraine” in December 1941, a Ukrainian language newspaper partially controlled by OUN. Later Shevelov also worked at the “Ukrainian Sowing” newspaper (}. From April 1942 Shevelov worked for the city administration and collaborated with the educational organization Prosvita. In his memoirs, one of his former students Oles Honchar claimed that when as a Soviet POW he was detained in a Nazi Camp in Kharkiv, Shevelov refused his pleas for assistance . Shevelov answered the allegation in an interview stating that he never received the letter \"...А потім у нас відбулася ще одна зустріч віч-на-віч. Гончар почав на мене нападати – ідеологічно, згадувати якісь факти, про які я нічого не знаю. Ніби-то коли в роки війни він потрапив до харківської в\"язниці, то передав мені лист, в якому просив посприяти його визволенню, а я міг, та не захотів. Можливо, такий лист і справді був, але до мене він ніколи не потрапляв.\". Honchar escaped death to become a renowned and influential Ukrainian writer. Shevelov has been critical of Soviet novels including Honchar's major work.\n\nShevelov and his mother fled the returning Red Army's advance on Kharkiv in February 1943. He resided for a brief period of time in Lviv where he continued his work in the study of Ukrainian language, including the creation of a new Ukrainian grammar until the Spring of 1944, when the Soviets continued their drive Westwards. Shevelov with the assistance of the Ukrainian Central Committee moved to Poland (Krynica) and then to Slovakia, then Austria and finally to Saxony.\n\nAfter the fall of Nazi Germany, Shevelov worked for the Ukrainian émigré newspaper “Chas” (“Time”). In 1946 he enrolled in the Ukrainian Free University in Munich and defended his doctorate dissertation in philology in 1947, continuing on his pre-war research and work \"До генези називного речення\" (1941) . He was also vice-president of the MUR (), a Ukrainian literary association (1945–49). In order to avoid repatriation to Soviet Union from Germany, he moved to neutral Sweden, where he worked in 1950–52 as Russian language lecturer at Lund University.\n\nIn 1952, together with mother, he emigrated to the USA. After settling in the United States he worked as a lecturer in Russian and Ukrainian at Harvard University (1952-4), associate professor (1954-8) and professor of Slavic philology at Columbia University (1958–77). He was one of the founders and president of the émigré scholarly organization “Ukrainian Free Academy of Sciences” (1959–61, 1981–86) and received an honorary doctorate from the University of Alberta (1983) and Lund University (1984). He was a founding member of the Slovo Association of Ukrainian Writers in Exile and was published in numerous émigré bulletins and magazines.\n\nShevelov was almost unknown to Ukrainian academic circles after 1943. In 1990, after an extended absence, he visited Ukraine where he was elected an international member of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. In 1999 he received an honorary doctorate from the Kharkiv University and from the National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy.\n\nIn 2001 he published 2 volumes of his memoirs “Я – мене – мені…(і довкруги).”: Спогади.\n\nHe died in 2002 in New York.\n\n\nShevelov prepared and published more than 600 scholarly texts concerning different aspects of the philology of the Ukrainian and other Slavic languages. From 1943 he developed the concept of the distinct establishment and development of Ukrainian and, later, Belarusian languages. Shevelov argued against the commonly held view of an original, unified East Slavic language from which Ukrainian, Belarusian and Russian languages diverged and instead proposed the existence of several dialectical groups (Kieven-Pollisyan, Galician-Podolian, Polotsk-Smolensk, Novgorodian-Tversk, Murom-Ryazansk) that had been distinct from the beginning and which later formed into separate Ukrainian, Russian and Belarusian languages. According to Shevelov, the beginnings of a separate Ukrainian language could be traced to the 7th century while the language formed in approximately the 16th century \n\nOn 4 September 2013 memorial plaque to Shevelov in his native Kharkiv was unveiled. On 25 September 2013 the city council of Kharkiv, after an appeal by the \"Anti-Fascist Committee of Kharkiv\", voted with 65 deputies for and four against (al four members of Batkivshchyna) that the memorial plaque to Shevelov in Kharkiv was placed there illegally. According to Mayor Hennadiy Kernes Shevelov \"proved to be a Nazi henchman\". Kharkiv Oblast Governor Mykhailo Dobkin suggested that Shevelov during World War II \"took an apartment of a Jewish family which, most likely, was shot\". In an open letter addressed the Kharkiv city council scientists from the University of Cambridge, Columbia University, the University of Kansas, Rutgers University, Northwestern University and the University of Alberta had pleaded that the allegations that Shevelov was a Nazi collaborator \"were thoroughly investigated by numerous US government agencies and Columbia University who completely and unequivocally rejected these acquisitions\". Half an hour after the Kharkiv city council had established that the memorial plaque to Shevelov was illegal (citizens who identified themselves as) public employees destroyed the memorial plaque. On 5 January 2015 the Kharkiv Administrative Court of Appeal reversed the decision of the Kharkiv city council to dismantle the memorial plaque for Shevelov.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12341", "title": "Ghent", "text": "Ghent\n\nGhent (; ; ) is a city and a municipality in the Flemish Region of Belgium. It is the capital and largest city of the East Flanders province, and the second largest municipality in Belgium, after Antwerp. The city started as a settlement at the confluence of the Rivers Scheldt and Leie and in the Late Middle Ages became one of the largest and richest cities of northern Europe, with some 50,000 people in 1300. It is a port and university city.\n\nThe municipality comprises the city of Ghent proper and the surrounding towns of Afsnee, Desteldonk, Drongen, Gentbrugge, Ledeberg, Mariakerke, Mendonk, Oostakker, Sint-Amandsberg, Sint-Denijs-Westrem, Sint-Kruis-Winkel, Wondelgem and Zwijnaarde. With 260,467 inhabitants in the beginning of 2018, Ghent is Belgium's second largest municipality by number of inhabitants. The metropolitan area, including the outer commuter zone, covers an area of and has a total population of 594,582 as of 1 January 2008, which ranks it as the fourth most populous in Belgium. The current mayor of Ghent, Daniël Termont, leads a coalition of the Socialistische Partij Anders, Groen and Open VLD.\n\nThe ten-day-long Ghent Festival (\"Gentse Feesten\" in Dutch) is held every year and attended by about 1–1.5 million visitors.\n\nArchaeological evidence shows human presence in the region of the confluence of Scheldt and Leie going back as far as the Stone Age and the Iron Age.\n\nMost historians believe that the older name for Ghent, 'Ganda', is derived from the Celtic word \"ganda\" which means confluence. Other sources connect its name with an obscure deity named Gontia.\n\nThere are no written records of the Roman period, but archaeological research confirms that the region of Ghent was further inhabited.\n\nWhen the Franks invaded the Roman territories from the end of the 4th century and well into the 5th century, they brought their language with them and Celtic and Latin were replaced by Old Dutch.\n\nAround 650, Saint Amand founded two abbeys in Ghent: St. Peter's (Blandinium) and Saint Bavo's Abbey. The city grew from several nuclei, the abbeys and a commercial centre. Around 800, Louis the Pious, son of Charlemagne, appointed Einhard, the biographer of Charlemagne, as abbot of both abbeys. In 851 and 879, the city was however attacked and plundered twice by the Vikings.\nWithin the protection of the County of Flanders, the city recovered and flourished from the 11th century, growing to become a small city-state. By the 13th century, Ghent was the biggest city in Europe north of the Alps after Paris; it was bigger than Cologne or Moscow. Within the city walls lived up to 65,000 people. The belfry and the towers of the Saint Bavo Cathedral and Saint Nicholas' Church are just a few examples of the skyline of the period.\n\nThe rivers flowed in an area where much land was periodically flooded. These rich grass 'meersen' (\"water-meadows\": a word related to the English 'marsh') were ideally suited for herding sheep, the wool of which was used for making cloth. During the Middle Ages Ghent was the leading city for cloth.\n\nThe wool industry, originally established at Bruges, created the first European industrialized zone in Ghent in the High Middle Ages. The mercantile zone was so highly developed that wool had to be imported from Scotland and England. This was one of the reasons for Flanders' good relationship with Scotland and England. Ghent was the birthplace of John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster. Trade with England (but not Scotland) suffered significantly during the Hundred Years' War.\n\nThe city recovered in the 15th century, when Flanders was united with neighbouring provinces under the Dukes of Burgundy. High taxes led to a rebellion and eventually the Battle of Gavere in 1453, in which Ghent suffered a terrible defeat at the hands of Philip the Good. Around this time the centre of political and social importance in the Low Countries started to shift from Flanders (Bruges–Ghent) to Brabant (Antwerp–Brussels), although Ghent continued to play an important role. With Bruges, the city led two revolts against Maximilian of Austria, the first monarch of the House of Habsburg to rule Flanders.\n\nIn 1500, Juana of Castile gave birth to Charles V, who became Holy Roman Emperor and King of Spain. Although native to Ghent, he punished the city after the 1539 Revolt of Ghent and obliged the city's nobles to walk in front of the Emperor barefoot with a noose (Dutch: \"strop\") around the neck; since this incident, the people of Ghent have been called \"Stroppendragers\" (noose bearers). Saint Bavo Abbey (not to be confused with the nearby Saint Bavo Cathedral) was abolished, torn down, and replaced with a fortress for Royal Spanish troops. Only a small portion of the abbey was spared demolition.\n\nThe late 16th and the 17th centuries brought devastation because of the Eighty Years' War. The war ended the role of Ghent as a centre of international importance. In 1745, the city was captured by French forces during the War of the Austrian Succession before being returned to the Empire of Austria under the House of Habsburg following the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle in 1748, when this part of Flanders became known as the Austrian Netherlands until 1815, the exile of the French Emperor Napoleon I, the end of the French Revolutionary and later Napoleonic Wars and the peace treaties arrived at by the Congress of Vienna.\n\nIn the 18th and 19th centuries, the textile industry flourished again in Ghent. Lieven Bauwens, having smuggled the industrial and factory machine plans out of England, introduced the first mechanical weaving machine on the European continent in 1800.\n\nThe Treaty of Ghent, negotiated here and adopted on Christmas Eve 1814, formally ended the War of 1812 between Great Britain and the United States (the North American phase of the Napoleonic Wars). After the Battle of Waterloo, Ghent and Flanders, previously ruled from the House of Habsburg in Vienna as the Austrian Netherlands, became a part of the United Kingdom of the Netherlands with the northern Dutch for 15 years. In this period, Ghent established its own university (1816) and a new connection to the sea (1824–27).\n\nAfter the Belgian Revolution, with the loss of port access to the sea for more than a decade, the local economy collapsed and the first Belgian trade union originated in Ghent. In 1913 there was a world exhibition in Ghent. As a preparation for these festivities, the Sint-Pieters railway station was completed in 1912.\n\nGhent was occupied by the Germans in both World Wars but escaped severe destruction. The life of the people and the German invaders in Ghent during World War I is described by H. Wandt in \"etappenleven te Gent\". In World War II the city was liberated by the British 7th \"Desert Rats\" Armoured Division and local Belgian fighters on 6 September 1944.\n\nAfter the fusions of municipalities in 1965 and 1977, the city is made up of:\n\nThe climate in this area has mild differences between highs and lows, and there is adequate rainfall year-round. According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Ghent has a marine west coast climate, abbreviated \"Cfb\" on climate maps.\n\nMuch of the city's medieval architecture remains intact and is remarkably well preserved and restored. Its centre is a carfree area. Highlights are the Saint Bavo Cathedral with the \"Ghent Altarpiece\", the belfry, the Gravensteen castle, and the splendid architecture along the old Graslei harbour. Ghent has established a blend between comfort of living and history; it is not a city-museum. The city of Ghent also houses three béguinages and numerous churches including Saint-Jacob's church, Saint-Nicolas' church, Saint Michael's church and St. Stefanus.\nIn the 19th century Ghent's most famous architect, Louis Roelandt, built the university hall Aula, the opera house and the main courthouse. Highlights of modern architecture are the university buildings (the \"Boekentoren\" or Book Tower) by Henry Van de Velde. There are also a few theatres from diverse periods.\n\nThe beguinages, as well as the belfry and adjacent cloth hall, were recognized by UNESCO as World Heritage Sites in 1998 and 1999.\n\nThe Zebrastraat, a social experiment in which an entirely renovated site unites living, economy and culture, can also be found in Ghent.\n\nCampo Santo is a famous Catholic burial site of the nobility and artists.\n\nImportant museums in Ghent are the Museum voor Schone Kunsten (Museum of Fine Arts), with paintings by Hieronymus Bosch, Peter Paul Rubens, and many Flemish masters; the SMAK or Stedelijk Museum voor Actuele Kunst (City Museum for Contemporary Art), with works of the 20th century, including Joseph Beuys and Andy Warhol; and the Design Museum Gent with masterpieces of Victor Horta and Le Corbusier. The Huis van Alijn (House of the Alijn family) was originally a beguinage and is now a museum for folk art where theatre and puppet shows for children are presented. The \"Museum voor Industriële Archeologie en Textiel\" or MIAT displays the industrial strength of Ghent with recreations of workshops and stores from the 1800s and original spinning and weaving machines that remain from the time when the building was a weaving mill. The Ghent City Museum (Stadsmuseum, abbreviated STAM), is committed to recording and explaining the city's past and its inhabitants, and to preserving the present for future generations.\n\nIn Ghent and other regions of East-Flanders, bakeries sell a donut-shaped bun called a \"mastel\" (plural \"mastellen\"), which is basically a bagel. \"Mastellen\" are also called \"Saint Hubert bread\", because on the Saint's feast day, which is 3 November, the bakers bring their batches to the early Mass to be blessed. Traditionally, it was thought that blessed mastellen immunized against rabies.\n\nOther local delicacies are the praline chocolates from local producers such as Leonidas, the cuberdons or 'neuzekes' ('noses'), cone-shaped purple jelly-filled candies, 'babelutten' ('babblers'), hard butterscotch-like candy, and of course, on the more fiery side, the famous 'Tierenteyn', a hot but refined mustard that has some affinity to French 'Dijon' mustard.\n\nStoverij is a classic Flemish meat stew, preferably made with a generous addition of brown 'Trappist' (strong abbey beer) and served with French fries. 'Waterzooi' is a local stew originally made from freshwater fish caught in the rivers and creeks of Ghent, but nowadays often made with chicken instead of fish. It is usually served nouvelle-cuisine-style, and will be supplemented by a large pot on the side.\n\nThe city promotes a meat-free day on Thursdays called \"Donderdag Veggiedag\" with vegetarian food being promoted in public canteens for civil servants and elected councillors, in all city funded schools, and promotion of vegetarian eating options in town (through the distribution of \"veggie street maps\"). This campaign is linked to the recognition of the detrimental environmental effects of meat production, which the United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization has established to represent nearly one-fifth of global greenhouse gas emissions.\n\nGhent has the world's largest number of vegetarian restaurants per capita.\n\nThe traditional confectionery is the cuberdon (also known as neuzekes or little noses). These are conical sweets with a soft centre, usually raspberry but other flavours can be found on the many street stalls around the city. Between 2011 and 2015 a feud between two local vendors made international news.\n\nThe city is host to some big cultural events such as the Gentse Feesten, I Love Techno in Flanders Expo, the \"10 Days Off\" musical festival, the International Film Festival of Ghent (with the World Soundtrack Awards) and the . Also, every five years, an extensive botanical exhibition (\"Gentse Floraliën\") takes place in Flanders Expo in Ghent, attracting numerous visitors to the city.\n\nThe Festival of Flanders had its 50th celebration in 2008. In Ghent it opens with the OdeGand City festivities that takes place on the second Saturday of September. Some 50 concerts take place in diverse locations throughout the medieval inner city and some 250 international artists perform. Other major Flemish cities hold similar events, all of which form part of the Festival of Flanders (Antwerp with \"Laus Polyphoniae\"; Bruges with \"MAfestival\"; Brussels with \"KlaraFestival\"; Limburg with \"Basilica\", Mechelen and Brabant with \"Novecento\" and \"Transit\").\n\nThe city of Ghent will co-host the 2020 World Choir Games together with the city of Antwerp. Organised by the Interkultur Foundation, the World Choir Games is the biggest choral competition and festival in the world.\n\nThe numerous parks in the city can also be considered tourist attractions. Most notably, Ghent boasts a nature reserve (Bourgoyen-Ossemeersen, 230 hectare) and a recreation park (Blaarmeersen, 87 hectares).\n\nThe port of Ghent, in the north of the city, is the third largest port of Belgium. It is accessed by the Ghent–Terneuzen Canal, which ends near the Dutch port of Terneuzen on the Western Scheldt. The port houses, among others, large companies like ArcelorMittal, Volvo Cars, Volvo Trucks, Volvo Parts, Honda, and Stora Enso.\n\nThe Ghent University and a number of research oriented companies, such as Ablynx, Innogenetics, Cropdesign and Bayer Cropscience, are situated in the central and southern part of the city.\n\nAs the largest city in East Flanders, Ghent has many hospitals, schools and shopping streets. Flanders Expo, the biggest event hall in Flanders and the second biggest in Belgium, is also located in Ghent. Tourism is becoming a major employer in the local area. Recently a local business man donated a substantial amount of money to have all the kerbs lowered by two inches in the city\n\nAs one of the largest cities in Belgium, Ghent has a highly developed transport system.\n\nBy car the city is accessible via two motorways:\n\nIn addition Ghent also has two ringways:\n\nThe municipality of Ghent comprises five railway stations:\n\nGhent has an extensive network of public transport lines, operated by \"De Lijn\".\n\n\n\nApart from the city buses mentioned above, Ghent also has numerous regional bus lines connecting it to towns and villages across the province of East Flanders. All of these buses stop in at least one of the city's regional bus hubs at either Sint-Pieters Station, Dampoort Station, Zuid or Rabot.\n\nInternational buses connecting Ghent to other European destinations are usually found at the Dampoort Station. A couple of private bus companies such as Eurolines, Megabus and Flixbus operate from the Dampoort bus hub.\n\nBuses to and from Belgium's second airport - Brussels South Airport Charleroi - are operated by Flibco, and can be found at the rear exit of the Sint-Pieters Station.\n\nGhent has the largest designated cyclist area in Europe, with nearly of cycle paths and more than 700 one-way streets, where bikes are allowed to go against the traffic. It also boasts Belgium’s first cycle street, where cars are considered ‘guests’ and must stay behind cyclists.\n\nIn the Belgian first football division Ghent is represented by K.A.A. Gent, who became Belgian football champions for the first time in its history in 2015. Another Ghent football club is KRC Gent-Zeehaven, playing in the Belgian fourth division. A football match at the 1920 Summer Olympics was held in Ghent.\n\nThe Six Days of Ghent, a six-day track cycling race, is held annually, taking place in the Kuipke velodrome in Ghent. In road cycling, the city hosts the start and finish of the Omloop Het Nieuwsblad, the traditional opening race of the cobbled classics season. It also lends its name to another cobbled classic, Gent–Wevelgem, although the race now starts in the nearby city of Deinze.\n\nThe city hosts an annual athletics IAAF event in the Flanders Sports Arena: the Indoor Flanders meeting. Two-time Olympic champion Hicham El Guerrouj set a still-standing world record of 3:48.45 in the mile run in 1997.\n\nThe Flanders Sports Arena was host to the 2015 Davis Cup Final between Belgium and Great Britain.\n\n\nGhent is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "11166905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11166905", "title": "Gulf/2000 Project", "text": "Gulf/2000 Project\n\nThe Gulf/2000 Project (G2K) is a cultural and academic project created in 1993 with backing and sponsorship by Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs. It is directed by Gary Sick and describes itself as a service to scholars, government officials, business people, journalists and other specialists who have a professional association with the Persian Gulf and Persian Gulf studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "43738483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43738483", "title": "Hack Attack", "text": "Hack Attack\n\nHack Attack: How the Truth Caught Up with Rupert Murdoch is a 2014 book about the News International phone hacking scandal by the British investigative journalist Nick Davies.\n\n\"Hack Attack\" was published by Random House's imprint Chatto and Windus in the United Kingdom, by House of Anansi Press (Canada) and by Farrar, Straus and Giroux's imprint Faber and Faber Inc, in the USA.\n\n\"Hack Attack\" is Davies's first book since his 2008 work on the British press, \"Flat Earth News\". Davies began work on \"Hack Attack\" in July 2011 at the same time that parliamentarian Tom Watson began work on his work on the phone hacking scandal, \"Dial M for Murdoch\". Davies and Watson subsequently met and discussed their respective projects.\n\nThe book contains sixteen chapters divided into three sections; 'Crime and Concealment', 'The Power Game' and 'Truth'. The book is prefaced by a 'Who's Who' of people mentioned in the book and an author's note. An epilogue ends the book, followed by an appendix that lists 41 private investigators that were used by British newspapers; many of whom have been convicted of various crimes. An extensive bibliography with links to the media and sources used in the book and exhibits are at the book's webpages.\n\nHenry Porter positively reviewed \"Hack Attack\" in \"The Guardian\", calling it a \"gripping account\". Porter wrote that \"This book is important, not simply because it is written by a superb reporter who took on a seemingly invulnerable criminal conspiracy, or because it is, even after Leveson and the months of evidence in court, the best account we have of the phone-hacking scandal and the attendant police corruption and cover-ups. It is, as well, the story of modern Britain and how its standards and politics have been degraded by one man's ruthless acquisition of power...Davies has laid it all bare in an exciting, clear and honest narrative...\" Porter concluded by describing the book as deserving \"a lot of praise and success. It is a masterly summary of the hacking affair, as well as the ingenuity and persistence that lead to great journalism.\" Porter reserved his sole criticism for the book's subtitle, as he felt that the truth \"hasn't yet\" caught up with Rupert Murdoch; the subsequent reorganization of News Corporation in the wake of the scandal left the company and the Murdoch family substantially enriched. Peter Wilby also positively reviewed \"Hack Attack\" in \"The Guardian\".\n\nJohn Lloyd gave a largely positive review in the \"Financial Times\", writing that \"What is revealed here, in painful, careful detail, is a journalism that held power in contempt – and, together with power, held in contempt people both famed and obscure, dominant and meek,\" and that Davies in \"his exhumation of this trove of journalistic ordure, done a colossal service to Britain’s democracy.\" Lloyd ends his review by describing \"Hack Attack\" as \"the book of a very bold reporter about a passage of arms that he won, to our great benefit.\"\n\nDavid Carr in the \"New York Times\" wrote that Davies was \"...just the kind of person you don't want to have on your tail...He wages a ground war to get at the truth, which comes less in one single “aha” moment than as a slow drip of facts penetrating a tissue of lies. Evidence is destroyed just before he gets his hands on it, the police redact documents so as to denude them of value. Then, just in the nick of time, a confidential source or secret document arrives. In that sense, the book moves right along, from cliffhanger to cliffhanger.\" Carr wrote that \"There is so much excess and human pathology on display here, it makes \"Bonfire of the Vanities\" seem restrained.\" Carr also criticized the book's subtitle, writing that \"...the truth never catches up with Murdoch. True enough, he loves newspapering and has been known to become deeply involved in editorial matters, but no real case is made that he knew the specifics of how his papers were coming up with very private facts about public figures.\" Carr concludes by opining that \"It is, in the best way, an old story. A lone gunslinger takes on a dishonest town, and in the end the bad guys flee. It is both more complicated and a bit less satisfying in reality, but that would be another book, and probably a less enjoyable one.\"\n\nIn \"The Daily Telegraph\" Peter Oborne described Davies as \"Britain’s greatest investigative journalist\" in his five star review of the book, adding that it was \"as exciting as a thriller but far more important because it provides such a horrifying portrait of the media/political class that has governed Britain in recent years...This book should be compulsory reading in journalism schools and must be read by anyone who wishes to understand how British politics actually works.\"\n\nA more critical review came from Will Gore in \"The Independent\" who wrote that Davies 'knows how to weave a compelling tale', and that his 'account of how Murdoch and his dysfunctional lieutenants ensnared, enslaved, and frightened generations of politicians is blistering. His unpicking of Scotland Yard’s early failure properly to investigate phone-hacking is terrific – and depressing.' Gore concluded by with the belief that while \"Hack Attack\" is a 'great read' its outlook 'sometimes feels a little too black and white: you are either with us or against us.'\n\nTwo reviewers critiqued Davies's epilogue to \"Hack Attack\" that was critical of neo-liberalism. Gore wrote that \"Davies may be on the side of the just. But he is as ideologically driven as those he despises. In the end, his real target is neo-liberalism, which “has reversed hundreds of years of struggle” and undermined the protection offered by democratic governments to ordinary working people\" Lloyd wrote that Davies made a mistake by ending the book \"with a rant on neoliberalism. It’s a subject too important for an epilogue of a few pages; it hasn’t featured much in the preceding narrative; and it’s hard to agree that it is triumphing in a country, the UK, with a mixed and quite regulated economy whose most popular institutions are the thoroughly socialised NHS and the publicly owned BBC – which, to be sure, the Murdoch papers paint as monsters.\"\n\nPositive reviews of \"Hack Attack\" were also written by Martin Hickman in \"The Independent\", Erik Wemple in the \"Washington Post\", Dan Kennedy in \"The Boston Globe\", Kirkus Reviews, and Ryan Chittum in the Columbia Journalism Review.\n\n\"Hack Attack\" was longlisted for the Samuel Johnson Prize for Non-Fiction and shortlisted for the Financial Times and McKinsey Business Book of the Year Award. \"Esquire\" magazine named \"Hack Attack\" as one of their '5 of the Best Books About Journalism'.\n\nIt was announced in September 2014 that the American actor and producer George Clooney will direct a film adaption of \"Hack Attack\", and co-produce the film with Grant Heslov, through their company Smoke House Pictures for Sony Pictures Entertainment. Clooney described \"Hack Attack\" as having \"all the elements - lying, corruption, blackmail...The fact that it's true is the best part.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "22215125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22215125", "title": "Hart–Dworkin debate", "text": "Hart–Dworkin debate\n\nThe Hart–Dworkin debate is a debate in legal philosophy between H. L. A. Hart and Ronald Dworkin. At the heart of the debate lies a Dworkinian critique of Hartian legal positivism, specifically, the theory presented in Hart's book \"The Concept of Law\".\n\nWhile Hart insists that judges are within bounds to legislate on the basis of rules of law, Dworkin strives to show that in these cases, judges work from a set of 'principles' which they use to formulate judgements, and that these principles either form the basis, or can be extrapolated from the present rules.\n\n"}
{"id": "40009253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40009253", "title": "How It Should Have Ended", "text": "How It Should Have Ended\n\nHow It Should Have Ended (HISHE) is an animated webseries that parodies popular films by creating alternate endings and pointing out various flaws. Endings for many major movies have been presented, using the tagline ‘sometimes movies don't finish the way we'd like’.\n\n\"How It Should Have Ended\" began after Daniel Baxter and Tommy Watson started discussing alternate endings for a movie they had watched. In 2005 their first animation \"How Matrix Revolutions Should Have Ended\" was completed and soon after in July 2005 the website was established. Christina \"Tina\" Alexander, who has previously worked with Daniel, joined the team shortly thereafter.\n\n\"HISHE\" was awarded the \"Best Internet Parody\" award for \"How Superman Should Have Ended\" by Spike TV at the 2006 Scream Awards at the Pantages Theater Hollywood, California. and was featured in an MTV Comedy and Talent Showcase at the Hollywood Improv. It has also been featured as a Yahoo! Profile Pick and has appeared in both \"Fade In\" and \"Wired\" magazines.\n\nOn March 5, 2007 HISHE was launched on YouTube as HISHEdotcom. It has attracted notable appearances such as Stan Lee himself in the parody of \"The Amazing Spider-Man\".\n\nIn September 2009 \"How It Should Have Ended\" joined Starz Digital Media which now handles all licensing. In April 2010, How It Should Have Ended was awarded the Streamy Award for Best Animated Web Series at the Orpheum Theatre in Los Angeles.\n\nOn June 30, 2013, a video was uploaded on TheFineBros channel which features the Teens React teens watching the \"Lord of the Rings\", \"Harry Potter\", and \"The Hunger Games\" HISHE Videos.\n\nIn November 2013, Batman and Superman from \"Super Cafe\" guest starred in the Nostalgia Critic's review of \"Man of Steel\", at the end of the episode where The Critic parodies Super Cafe. \"HISHE\" also featured in the Screen Junkies series Honest Trailers in the episodes about \"\" and \"Star Trek Into Darkness\".\n\nAs of April 6, 2014, HISHE had 3,328,232 subscribers and 673,522,879 views. As of January 10, 2015, about 8 months later, HISHE had 4,418,182 subscribers and 879,357,066 views. A further 16 months later (May 18, 2016), HISHE had 6,140,916 subscribers and 1,365,102,166 views. Currently HISHE has more than 7.7 million subcribers in the year of 2018. By the same time, HISHE had amassed over 200,000 likes on its Facebook account, over 19,000 followers on its Instagram account and over 11,000 followers on its Twitter account.\n\nHISHE has received many positive reviews about its animation and alternate endings to popular movies. IMDb gave it a rating of 8.3/10 from 2,484 users. Some of the parodies which were most popular with the reviewers are of \"Lord of the Rings\", \"Spider-Man 3\", \"Harry Potter\" and \"Superman\". HISHE's short animations of Superman and Batman sitting in a café (dubbed Super Cafe), discussing various flaws in movies along with the characters of the movie such as \"Iron Man\", \"The Avengers\" and even the \"Super Mario\" games, have also been well received.\n\nOn May 12, 2015 HISHE launched a series named 'HISHE Features'. This series aims to put the spotlight on lesser known YouTube animators or movie related channels. It is also used to bridge the gap between HISHE's own videos.\n\nThe series has been a success, both in terms of views and features, which include Ricepirate, OnlyLeigh, BrotherhoodWorkshop as well as Hank and Jed. The series has however received some criticism from fans who believe the content is not up to par with HISHE's own and could therefore damage their reputation. HISHE has responded by refuting these claims stating that it is beneficial to all parties involved.\n\nHISHE launched an additional channel called HISHE Kids, with the show \"Fixed Fairy Tales\".\n\nThe \"Super Cafe / Villain's Pub\" is a segment that debuted at the end of \"How Superman Should Have Ended\" which featured Superman discussing the alternate events of the 1978 \"Superman\" film in a cafe with Batman, which began the trend of the \"Super Cafe\". Though it is thought to be based on \"Seinfeld\", the clips are actually based on the final scene of Daniel Baxter's favorite film, \"Swingers\", with Superman standing in for Trent and Batman standing in for Mike.\n\nIn various superhero episodes of \"How it Should have Ended\", altered or added scenes are shown from the superhero film, followed by the superheroes that appear in the movie interacting with Batman and Superman (both voiced by Daniel Baxter) in the Super Cafe; it also always appears at the end of each episode. The Super Cafe segment is featured in every superhero film the series has covered so far. Superman and Batman also make a brief appearance in a cafe in the \"How Pulp Fiction Should Have Ended\". The segment was also used in the Nostalgia Critic's review of \"Man of Steel\". A companion segment called the \"Villain Pub\" which features many popular villains like Loki, the Joker, Voldemort and many more began with \"How Should Have Ended\". In those segments, Emperor Palpatine is the bartender and Bowser is the bouncer (bownser). \n\nThere are numerous running gags in the Super Cafe segments, the most notable being in which Batman always explains his various accomplishments and abilities or finds some kind of excuse to say his catchphrase \"Because I'm Batman!\", much to Superman’s irritation. In the \"Suicide Squad\" HISHE, Batman discovers the Villain Pub and in the Villain Pub episode \"Boss Battle\", goes to confront the villains congregating there, nearly successfully, only to be tempted by Emperor Palpatine by his weakness – the ladies. It is then that Harley Quinn, who had used her vexing charms to be allowed back into the pub, knocks out Batman from behind. Batman is then taken into the cellar to be fed to shark Jaws who is comically depicted as talking in a high-pitched voice, chained up and stripped of his equipment. He barely escapes after being rescued by Dr. Strange, a fact that is reiterated in the \"Doctor Strange\" HISHE (which also cryptically contained a spoiler for the \"Avengers: Infinity War\" trailer). Later, in the \"Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2\" HISHE, things begin to take a turn for the dire when Ayesha, disgusted by heroes congregating in a cafe to meet, decides to punish heroes whom she blames for her failure by destroying their cafe and unleashes her superweapon Martha (a parody of Adam from the actual end-credits scene of \"Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2\" and choosing the name to taunt both Batman and Superman for their mothers having the same name). The arrival of Martha to decimate the cafe is foreshadowed in further videos like the \"Wonder Woman\" and \"Spider-Man: Homecoming\" HISHE videos. At last, in the \"Justice League\" HISHE video, Martha (voiced by James Rallison) arrives and succeeds in his primary objective of destroying the cafe but upon facing the Justice League, joined by Green Lantern, who comically resembles Steve Trevor, gets his neck snapped by Superman, much to the irritation of Batman, who had wanted to take down Martha through his own plan. The cafe is later rebuilt by Black Panther in the \"Black Panther\" HISHE video.\n\nNote: Each episode features patrons The Joker, Loki, Lord Voldemort & bartender Sheev Palpatine.\n"}
{"id": "7051579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7051579", "title": "Huldah Gates", "text": "Huldah Gates\n\nThe Huldah Gates (, \"Sha'arei Hulda\") are the two sets of now-blocked gates in the Southern Wall of the Temple Mount, situated in Jerusalem's Old City. The western set is a double arched gate (the Double Gate), and the eastern is a triple arched gate (the Triple Gate). Each arch of the double gate led into an aisle of a passageway leading from the gate into the Mount, and to steps leading to the Mount's surface; when the al-Aqsa Mosque was built, the old steps were blocked, and the eastern aisle lengthened so that new steps from its end would exit north of the Mosque. The triple gate is similar, though the longer aisle is to the west, and its third aisle, on the east, forms the western boundary of the vaulted area known as \"Solomon's Stables\".\n\nThe name \"Huldah gates\" is taken from the description of the Temple Mount in the Mishnah (Tractate of Midot 1:3). Accepted opinion amongst scholars is that the Mishna's description refers to the sanctified area of the Temple Mount in the Hasmonean period. Therefore, calling the gates found in the current southern wall \"Huldah\" would be an anachronism, as the base of that wall is part of Herod's post-Hasmonean extension of the Temple Mount.\n\nTwo possible etymologies are given for the name: \"Huldah\" means \"mole\" or \"mouse\" in Hebrew, and the tunnels leading up from these gates called to mind the holes or tunnels used by these animals. Alternatively, in a possible folk etymology, the First Temple prophetess Huldah was said to have held court in this area and, indeed, her tomb was placed here by some as well.\n\nThe 19th century excavations of the area by Charles Warren discovered an erratic series of passageways under the triple gate, some leading below the wall and beyond the Mount's southern edge. The purpose and age of these passages are unknown, and more recent archaeologists have not been allowed to investigate due to the political volatility of the site. The passageways from both gates are now used by the waqf as mosques.\n\n"}
{"id": "3220620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3220620", "title": "List of Russian language topics", "text": "List of Russian language topics\n\nThe list of Russian language topics stores articles on grammar and other language-related topics that discuss (or should discuss) peculiarities of the Russian language (as well as of other languages) or provide examples from Russian language for these topics.\n\nThe list complements the and does not overlap with it. \n\nThe \"—\" marks articles where the information about Russian language is inadequate or missing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7950741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7950741", "title": "Meyrav Wurmser", "text": "Meyrav Wurmser\n\nMeyrav Wurmser is an Israeli- American neoconservative political executive. She is married to Swiss-American David Wurmser, former Middle East Adviser to US Vice President Dick Cheney. She was formerly a Senior Fellow at the US think tank, the Hudson Institute.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2001, Wurmser was a co-founder and Executive Director Middle East Media Research Institute (MEMRI) together with Yigal Carmon.\n\nIn 1996, Wurmser participated in a study that led to the report, \"\", a paper prepared for the Likud party leader and then incoming Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, and suggested a new approach to solving Israel's security problems in the Middle East with an emphasis on \"Western values\" and the abandonment of traditional \"land for peace\" negotiations with the Palestinians. Other study participants included such notable neoconservatives as Richard Perle, David Wurmser, and Douglas Feith.\n\nIn 2008, Wurmser was listed as a member of the board of advisors of the Endowment for Middle East Truth, a group which was involved in the distribution of 28 million DVDs of the film in swing states prior to the 2008 US Presidential election.\n\n"}
{"id": "20394424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20394424", "title": "Māra Zālīte", "text": "Māra Zālīte\n\nMāra Zālīte (born February 18, 1952) is a well-known Latvian writer and cultural worker.\nZālīte’s literary works include poetry, essays, plays, drama, prose and librettos. They often deal with historical problems and have symbolic meanings that correspond with mythology and Latvian culture and people. The author’s works have been translated in many languages including Russian, English, German, Swedish, Estonian, and French. \nZālīte’s first literary works were published in the early 1970s. During the 1980s, Zālīte turned to playwriting, composing librettos for musicals and writing rock operas. Her works have used music by many eminent Latvian artists such as Raimonds Pauls and Jānis Lūsēns. \nThe writer has earned many literary prizes and national awards, including the Order of the Three Stars, and is considered as one of the greatest Latvian social figures.\nHer first prose work – the autobiographical novel “Five fingers” (2013), earned wide recognition from both readers and members of the writing community.\nMāra Zālīte was born in the city of Krasnoyarsk, in Siberia (Russia), where her family had been deported.\n\nShe spent 4 and a half years of her childhood in Krasnoyarsk, Syberia until the autumn of 1956 when her parents got the permission to return to their homeland of Latvia. She spent the rest of her childhood in \"Slampes Kalna Ķivuļi\". Zālīte studied elementary and secondary school at Slampes primary school.\n\nMāra Zālīte is a graduate from Murjāņi sports boarding school (1970) and Faculty of Philology of the University of Latvia (1975) (a former State University). Between years 1974 and 1989, Zālīte worked as a technical assistant at the Writers’ Union of Latvia, as a manager of the New Writers’ Studio and as a poetry consultant for the magazine “Liesma”. In 1989, she became chief editor of the publishing house and magazine “Karogs”, a position she held until 2000, when she became president of the Latvian Authors’ Association (AKKA/LAA) (2000-2008). Māra Zālīte has also been a member of the City Council of the Three-Star Order (1999-2006), chairman of a State Language Commission (2002–2004) as well as a member of Chapter of Orders (2006-2007). \n\nShe is also a trust member of the National Library Board (since 1998), an honorary member of the Academy of Sciences and one of the 14 founders of “Koknese foundation” (since 2005).\n\nZālīte has been awarded the Three Star Order, Commemorative Medal of Barricades and has received several literary prizes.\n\nMāra Zālīte is married to Jānis Ķuzulis(since 1979) and they have two children – Jānis Ķuzulis and Ilze Ķuzule-Skrastiņa as well as three grandchildren – Krišjānis, Emīlija and Marats. She currently lives in Riga and often stays at her countryside house in Tukums. \n\nVladimir Mayakovsky Award (1982, Georgia)\n\nOjārs Vācietis prize (1989) \n\nAspazija Award (1992)\n\nThe Herder Prize (1993 Germany)\n\nThe Commemorative Medal for Participants of the Barricades of 1991 (Barikāžu piemiņas medaļa) (2000) for sinigificant involvement in the Barricades of 1991.\n\nOrder of the Three Stars (Trīs zvaigžņu ordenis) (08.11.1995.) for involvement in the Barricades.\n\nCross of Recognition (Atzinības krusts) (12.11.2008) for outstanding merits in social and cultural work, a brilliant creative contribution in Latvian literature and the strengthening of the Latvian language.\n\nThe International Baltic Sea Region Jānis Baltvilks Prize in Children’s Literature and Book Art prize (2012) for the children tale \"Tango un Tūtiņa ciemos\" (Tango and Tutina on a visit\")\". \n\nThe Annual Latvian Literary Award (2001; 2004; 2014) for collection of plays \"Sauciet to par teātri\"; play \"Zemes nodoklis\" and autobiographical novel \"Pieci pirksti\" (Five fingers).\n\nAt the start of Zālīte’s career, during the time of her first significant publication of poem “Balādīte” in the magazine “Karogs” in 1972 the main ideas in her poetry were about life and youth in the 1970s — looking for the meaning of life, development of personality, values, and overcoming the problems of life.\n\nAlongside with poetry, Zālīte has written drama. In the 1980s, the writer focused more on the philosophical and emotional motifs combining history and modern times as well as referencing ongoing social and political issues, often associated with Latvian culture and mythology. The tragic Latvian fate and nation’s longing for freedom is best depicted in the poetry collection “Debesis, debesis” (1988).\n\nInitially, her playwriting developed as a continuation of her poetry. She has written a handful of plays and librettos combining strong individual characters with topics of history, myths and national identity, her most popular one being the libretto for the mythic-symbolic rock opera “The Bearslayer” (Lāčplēsis) (1987) which became a symbol of the Third Latvian awakening.\n\nAt the end of the 20 century, Zālīte’s 6 poetry collection “Apkārtne” (1997) pictured a person aware of his surroundings and the problems he faces – freedom, chaos, hope, loss and depression. \n\nIn all of the author's literary career her works have been strongly influenced by her childhood which is best depicted in her first prose works – the autobiographical novels “Five fingers” (2013) and “Paradīzes putni”(2018) that talk about occupation and childhood spent in the Soviet Union’s regime. Readers describe these works as poetic, nostalgic and passionate.\n\nMāra Zālīte has also released some literary works for children.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49991343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49991343", "title": "Notary (canon law)", "text": "Notary (canon law)\n\nA notary in the canon law of the Catholic Church (Latin: \"notarius\") is a person appointed by competent authority to draw up official or authentic documents. These documents are issued chiefly from the official administrative bureaux, the chanceries; secondly, from tribunals; lastly, others are drawn up at the request of individuals to authenticate their contracts or other acts. The public officials appointed to draw up these three classes of papers have been usually called notaries.\n\nEtymologically, a notary is one who takes notes. Notes are signs or cursory abbreviations to record the words uttered, so that they may be reproduced later in ordinary writing. Notaries were at first private secretaries, attached to the service of persons in positions of importance. It was natural for the science of notes to be in high esteem among those employed in recording the transactions of public boards, and for the name notary to be applied to these officials; so that before long the word was used to signify their occupation.\n\nThe title and office existed at the Imperial Court (cf. Cod. Theod., VI, 16, \"De primicerio et notariis\"), whence they passed into all the royal chanceries, though in the course of time the term notary ceased to be used. This was the case also with the chanceries of the pope, the great episcopal sees, and even every bishopric.\n\nThere are grounds for doubting whether the seven regional notaries of the Roman Church, one for each ecclesiastical district of the Holy City, were instituted by St. Clement and appointed by him to record the Acts of the martyrs, as is said in the \"Liber Pontificalis\"; they date back, however, to an early age.\n\nNot only were there notaries as soon as a bureau for ecclesiastical documents was established, but in very ancient days we find these notaries forming a kind of college presided over by a \"primicerius\"; the notice of Pope Julius I in the \"Liber Pontificalis\" relates that this pope ordered an account of the property of the Church, intended as an authentic document, to be drawn up before the \"primicerius\" of the notaries.\n\nThe notaries were in the ranks of the clergy and must have received one of the minor orders; for the notariate is an office and not an order. At intervals the popes entrusted the notaries of their \"curia\" with various missions. Their chief, the \"primicerius\", with whom a \"secundicerius\" is sometimes found later, was a very important personage, in fact, the head of the pontifical chancery; during the vacancy of the papal chair, he formed part of the interim Government, and a letter in 640 (Jaffé, \"Regesta\", n. 2040) is signed (the pope being elected but not yet consecrated) by one \"Joannes primicerius et servans locum s. sedis apostolicae\".\n\nThere were of course many notaries in the service of the pontifical chancery; the seven regional notaries preserved a certain pre-eminence over the others and became the protonotary (also spelled \"prothonotaries\"), whose name and office continued. The ordinary notaries of the chancery, however, were gradually known by other names, according to their various functions, so that the term ceased to be employed in the pontifical and other chanceries. The prothonotaries were and still are a college of prelates, enjoying numerous privileges; they are known as \"participants\", but outside of Rome there are many purely honorary prothonotaries. The official duties had insensibly almost ceased; but Pius X in his reorganization of the Roman Curia has appointed participant prothonotaries to the chancery (Const. \"Sapienti\", 29 June 1908). A corresponding change occurred in the bureaux of the episcopal churches, abbeys, etc.; the officials attached to the chancery have ceased to be known as notaries and are called chancellor, secretary, etc. Lastly, mention must be made of the notaries of the synodal or conciliar assemblies, whose duties are limited to the duration of the assembly.\n\nSociety in former times did not recognize the separation of powers; so, too, in the Church the judicial authority was vested in the same prelates as the administrative. Soon, however, contentious matters were tried separately before a specially appointed body.\n\nThe courts required a staff to record the transactions; these clerks were likewise notaries. In most civil courts they are, however, called registrars, clerks of the court, etc., but in the ecclesiastical tribunals they retain the name notary, though they are also called \"actuaries\".\n\nThus the special law of the higher ecclesiastical tribunals, the Tribunal of the Roman Rota and the Supreme Tribunal of the Apostolic Signatura, reorganized by St. Pius X, provides for the appointment of notaries for these two tribunals. The reason why the head official charged with drawing up the documents of the Holy Office is called the notary, as were the clerks who in former times drew up the records of the Inquisition, is, doubtless, that of all the Roman Congregations the Holy Office is the only real judicial tribunal.\n\nThe notaries of ecclesiastical tribunals are usually clerics; the duties may however be confided to laymen, except in criminal cases against a cleric.\n\nFinally, there is the class of persons to whom the term notary is restricted in common parlance, to wit, those who are appointed by the proper authorities to witness the documentary proceedings between private persons and to impress them with legal authenticity. They are not engaged in the chanceries, in order that they may be within easy reach of private individuals; they have a public character, so that their records, drawn up according to rule, are received as authentic accounts of the particular transaction, especially agreements, contracts, testaments, and wills.\n\nConsequently, public notaries may be appointed only by those authorities who possess jurisdiction \"in foro externo\", and have a chancery, e.g. popes, bishops, emperors, reigning princes, and of course only within the limits of their jurisdiction; moreover, the territory within which a notary can lawfully exercise his functions is expressly determined. There were formerly Apostolic notaries and even episcopal notaries, duly commissioned by papal or episcopal letters, whose duty it was to receive documents relating to ecclesiastical or mixed affairs, especially in connection with benefices, foundations, and donations in favor of churches, wills of clerics, etc. They no longer exist; the only ecclesiastical notaries at present are the officials of the Roman and episcopal \"curiae\". Moreover, these notaries were layman, and canon law forbids clerics to acts as scriveners.\n"}
{"id": "412014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412014", "title": "Object language", "text": "Object language\n\nAn object language is a language which is the \"object\" of study in various fields including logic, linguistics, mathematics, and theoretical computer science. The language being used to talk about an object language is called a metalanguage. An object language may be a formal or natural language.\n\nMathematical logic and linguistics make use of metalanguages, which are languages for describing the nature of other languages. In mathematical logic, the object language is usually a formal language. The language which a metalanguage is used to describe is the object language. It is called that because that language is the object under discussion using the metalanguage.\n\nFor instance, someone who says \"In French, you say \"Bonjour\" to greet someone\" uses English as a metalanguage to describe the object language French.\n\nThere are two ways the term \"object language\" can be used in computing: a language which is the object of formal specification, and a language which is the object (goal) of a compiler or interpreter.\n\nComputer languages are object languages of the metalanguage in which their specification is written. In computer science this is referred to as the specification language. Backus–Naur form was one of the earliest used specification languages.\n\nWhen compilers are written using systems like lex and yacc, the rules the programmer writes look much like a formal specification, but it is considered an implementation instead. Many programming language implementations are not strictly the same as their specifications, adding features or making implementation-dependent design decisions.\n\nAt their basic level, computers act on what is given to them through a limited set of instructions which are understood by their CPUs. In the earliest computers, that meant programmers sometimes composed actual 1's and 0's to program. Since this requires considerable programmer training (and patience) to create instructions, later computer languages have gone to great lengths to simplify the programmer's task. For example, a high level programming language may allow a programmer to assign a value to a variable without specifying a memory location or a CPU instruction.\n\nIn this context, the high level programming language is the \"source language\", which is then translated by a compiler into object code that the CPU can read directly. This object code is the \"object language\", and varies depending on what CPU is being given the instructions.\n\n\"Object language\" in this context means something akin to \"the object of what the programmer is trying to achieve\". If the source language and object languages are viewed as formal (logical) languages, what the compiler does is \"interpret\" the source into the target language (this is different from the computer science use of \"interpreted language\" meaning one which is \"not\" compiled).\n\n\"Object language\" in this context is synonymous with \"target language\". The object language of a translation most often is a machine language, but can be some other kind of language, such as assembly language.\n\nBecause the object language of compilation has usually been machine language, the term \"object file\" has come to mean a file containing machine instructions, and sometimes the translated program itself is simply called an \"object\".\n\n\"Object language\" should also not be confused with \"object-oriented language\", which is a type of computer programming language which changes the programmer's environment into convenient objects which can be used in something similar to a drag-and-drop fashion.\n\nA \"symbol\" is an idea, abstraction or concept, tokens of which may be marks or a configuration of marks which form a particular pattern. Although the term \"symbol\" in common use refers at some times to the idea being symbolized, and at other times to the marks on a piece of paper or chalkboard which are being used to express that idea; in the formal languages studied in mathematics and logic, the term \"symbol\" refers to the idea, and the marks are considered to be a token instance of the symbol.\n\nIn the formal languages used in mathematical logic and computer science, a \"well-formed formula\" or simply \"formula\" is an idea, abstraction or concept which is expressed using the symbols and formation rules (also called the formal grammar) of a particular formal language. To say that a string of symbols formula_1 is a well-formed formula with respect to a given formal grammar formula_2 is equivalent to saying that formula_1 belongs to the language generated by formula_2.\n\nA \"formal system\" is a formal language together with a deductive system which consists of a set of inference rules and/or axioms. A formal system is used to derive one expression from one or more other expressions previously expressed in the system. These expressions are called axioms, in the case of those previously supposed to be true, or theorems, in the case of those derived. A formal system may be formulated and studied for its intrinsic properties, or it may be intended as a description (i.e. a model) of external phenomena.\n\nA \"theorem\" is a symbol or string of symbols which is derived by using a formal system. The string of symbols is a logical consequence of the axioms and rules of the system.\n\nA \"formal proof\" or \"derivation\" is a finite sequence of propositions (called well-formed formulas in the case of a formal language) each of which is an axiom or follows from the preceding sentences in the sequence by a rule of inference. The last sentence in the sequence is a theorem of a formal system. The concept of natural deduction is a generalization of the concept of proof.\n\nA \"theory\" is a set of sentences in a formal language.\n"}
{"id": "13786289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13786289", "title": "Olaf Caroe", "text": "Olaf Caroe\n\nSir Olaf Kirkpatrick Kruuse Caroe (15 November 1892 – 23 November 1981) was an administrator in British India, working for the Indian Civil Service and the Indian Political Service. He served as the Governor of the North-West Frontier Province. He was a strategist of the Great Game and the Cold War on the southern periphery of the Soviet Union. His ideas are believed to have been highly influential in shaping the post-War policies of Britain and the United States.\n\nOlaf Caroe was the son of architect William Douglas Caroe and Grace Desborough Rendall. He was educated at Winchester College and Magdalen College, Oxford, where he read classics. He served in the army in the Punjab in World War I, and joined the Indian Civil Service in 1919.\n\nCaroe subsequently move to the Indian Political Service, where he was influential in foreign policy. He served as the Foreign Secretary to the Government of India through the World War II. After the war, he was appointed as the Governor of the North-West Frontier Province (NWFP), on the northwest border of the Indian subcontinent, adjoining Afghanistan and Russia.\n\nCaroe served as the Governor of the NWFP from 1946 to just before the Partition of India in 1947. Subject to accusations that he was too close to the Muslim League, he encountered opposition from Congress Party politicians, and was replaced in mid-1947 by Rob Lockhart as governor.\n\nAfter returning from India in 1947, he wrote extensively. His strategic ideas proved influential:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6097209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6097209", "title": "Orson Scott Card", "text": "Orson Scott Card\n\nOrson Scott Card (born August 24, 1951) is an American novelist, critic, public speaker, essayist, and columnist. He writes in several genres but is known best for science fiction. His novel \"Ender's Game\" (1985) and its sequel \"Speaker for the Dead\" (1986) both won Hugo and Nebula Awards, making Card the only author to win both science fiction's top U.S. prizes in consecutive years. A feature film adaptation of \"Ender's Game\", which Card co-produced, was released in 2013.\n\nCard is a professor of English at Southern Virginia University, has written two books on creative writing, hosts writing bootcamps and workshops, and serves as a judge in the Writers of the Future contest. A great-great-grandson of Brigham Young, Card is a practicing member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). In addition to producing a large body of fiction works, he has also offered political, religious, and social commentary in his columns and other writing.\n\nHe has written under a number of pseudonyms, including Frederick Bliss, Brian Green, P.Q. Gump, Dinah Kirkham, Scott Richards, and Byron Walley.\n\nCard is the son of Willard Richards Card and Peggy Jane (née Park), the third of six children and the older brother of composer and arranger Arlen Card. Card was born in Richland, Washington, and grew up in Santa Clara, California as well as Mesa, Arizona and Orem, Utah. He served as a missionary for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints in Brazil and graduated from Brigham Young University (BYU) and the University of Utah; he also spent a year in a Ph.D. program at the University of Notre Dame.\n\nFor part of the 1970s Card worked as an associate editor of the \"Ensign\", an official magazine of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. Influences on his fiction include Heinlein, Austen, Mitchell, Asimov, Richter, and Bradbury.\n\nCard lives in Greensboro, North Carolina, a place that has played a significant role in \"Ender's Game\" and many of his other works.\n\nCard began his writing career primarily as a poet, studying with Clinton F. Larson at BYU. During his studies as a theater major, he began \"doctoring\" scripts, adapting fiction for readers theater production, and finally writing his own one-act and full-length plays, several of which were produced by faculty directors at BYU. He also explored fiction writing, beginning with stories that eventually evolved into \"The Worthing Saga\".\n\nAfter returning to Provo, Utah from his Church of Jesus Christ mission in Brazil, Card started the Utah Valley Repertory Theatre Company, which for two summers produced plays at \"the Castle\", a Depression-era outdoor amphitheater behind the state psychiatric hospital in Provo; his company's were the first plays ever produced at the Castle. Meanwhile, he took part-time employment as a proofreader at BYU Press, then made the jump to full-time employment as a copy editor. In 1976, in the midst of a paid role performing in the church's musical celebrating America's Bicentennial, he secured employment as an assistant editor at the \"Ensign\", and moved to Salt Lake City. It was while working at \"Ensign\" that Card published his first piece of fiction. His short story \"Gert Fram\" appeared in the July 1977 fine arts issue of that magazine under the pseudonym Byron Walley.\n\nHe wrote the short story \"Ender's Game\" while working at the BYU press, and submitted it to several publications. The idea for the later novel of the same title came from the short story about a school where boys can fight in space. It was eventually purchased by Ben Bova at \"Analog Science Fiction and Fact\" and published in the August 1977 issue. Meanwhile, he started writing half-hour audioplays on LDS Church history, the New Testament, and other subjects for Living Scriptures in Ogden, Utah; on the basis of that continuing contract, some freelance editing work, and a novel contract for \"Hot Sleep\" and \"A Planet Called Treason\", he left \"Ensign\" and began supporting his family as a freelancer.\n\nHe completed his master's degree in English at the University of Utah in 1981 and began a doctoral program at the University of Notre Dame, but the recession of the early 1980s caused the flow of new book contracts to temporarily dry up. He returned to full-time employment as the book editor for \"Compute!\" magazine in Greensboro, North Carolina, in 1983. In October of that year, a new contract for the Alvin Maker \"trilogy\" (now up to six books) allowed him to return to freelancing.\n\n\"Ender's Game\" and its sequel \"Speaker for the Dead\" were both awarded the Hugo Award and the Nebula Award, making Card the only author () to win both of science fiction's top prizes in consecutive years. Card continued the series with \"Xenocide\", \"Children of the Mind\", \"Ender's Shadow\", \"Shadow of the Hegemon\", \"Shadow Puppets\", \"First Meetings in the Enderverse\", \"Shadow of the Giant\", \"\", and \"Ender in Exile\", a book that takes place after \"Ender's Game\" and before \"Speaker for the Dead\". Card has also announced his plan to write \"Shadows Alive\", a book that connects the \"Shadow\" series and \"Speaker\" series together. \"Shadows in Flight\" serves as a bridge towards this final book. He also co-wrote the formic war novels: Earth Unaware, Earth Afire, Earth Awakens and The Swarm as prequels to the Ender novels, with two more novels in the pipeline, which will result in two prequel formic war trilogies. These trilogies relay, among other things, the history of Mazer Rackham. Children of the Fleet is the first novel in a new sequel series, called \"Fleet School\". In 2008 Card announced that \"Ender's Game\" would be made into a movie, but that he did not have a director lined up (Wolfgang Petersen had previously been scheduled to direct the movie but subsequently moved on to other projects.) It was to be produced by Chartoff Productions, and Card was writing the screenplay himself. The film was made several years later, and released in 2013, with Asa Butterfield in the title role and Gavin Hood directing.\n\nOther works include the alternative histories \"The Tales of Alvin Maker\", \"\", The Homecoming Saga, and \"Hidden Empire\", a story about a near-future civil war in the United States, based on the Xbox Live Arcade video game \"Shadow Complex\". He collaborated with \"Star Wars\" artist Doug Chiang on \"Robota\" and with Kathryn H. Kidd on \"Lovelock\".\n\nIn 2017, he co-created a TV series \"Extinct\".\n\nHe has since branched out into other areas of fiction with novels such as \"Lost Boys\", \"Treasure Box\" and \"Enchantment\". Other works include the novelization of the James Cameron film \"The Abyss\", and the comic book \"Ultimate Iron Man\" for Marvel Comics' Ultimate Marvel Universe series. Outside the world of published fiction, Card contributed dialog to at least three video games: \"Loom\", \"The Secret of Monkey Island\" and \"The Dig\" in the early 1990s.\n\nIn 1983 Card published the novel \"Saints\", a historical fiction based loosely on one of his ancestors and her experiences coming into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints during the early portion of its movement. It continues through her eyes into subsequent events up until the granting of Statehood to Utah.\n\nIn 1988, Card wrote the script for an updated Hill Cumorah Pageant.\n\nIn 2000, Card published the first novel in \"The Women of Genesis\" series. This series explores the lives of the principal women mentioned in the first book of the Bible and includes \"Sarah\" (2000), \"Rebekah\" (2002), and \"Rachel and Leah\" (2004).\n\nIn the fall of 2005, Card launched \"Orson Scott Card's InterGalactic Medicine Show\". He edited the first two issues, but found that the demands of teaching, writing, and directing plays for his local church theater group made it impossible to respond to writers' submissions in a timely manner; former Card student and experienced freelance writer and editor Edmund R. Schubert took over as editor on June 1, 2006.\n\nThe dialog and screenplay (but not the story) for the Xbox video game \"Advent Rising\" was written by Card and Cameron Dayton.\n\nIn 2008, Card's novella \"Hamlet's Father\", a retelling of Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\", was published in the anthology \"The Ghost Quartet\" (Tor Books). The work re-interpreted all of the characters' personalities and motivations.\n\nOver the years Orson Scott Card has used at least seven pseudonyms.\n\nHe used the names Frederick Bliss and P.Q. Gump when he was asked to write an overview of Mormon playwrights \"Mormon Shakespeares: A Study of Contemporary Mormon Theatre\" for Spring 1976 issue of \"Sunstone\" magazine. According to Card he used these pseudonyms because the article included a brief reference to himself and his play \"Stone Tables\".\n\nThe name Byron Walley was used by Card on his first published piece of fiction \"Gert Fram\" which appeared in the July 1977 fine arts issue of \"Ensign\" magazine. According to Card he used this name because he had a non-fiction article, \"Family Art\", a poem, \"Looking West\", and a short play, \"The Rag Mission\", appearing in the same issue. Card also used the name Byron Walley in stories he published in \"Friend\" magazine, \"New Era\" magazine and in the anthology \"Dragons of Darkness\". Stories by Byron Walley include: \"Gert Fram\", \"Ensign\" magazine, July 1977; \"Bicicleta\", \"Friend\" magazine, October 1977; \"The Best Family Home Evening Ever\", \"Friend\" magazine, January 1978; \"Billy's Box\", \"Friend\" magazine, February 1978; \"I Think Mom and Dad Are Going Crazy, Jerry\", \"New Era\" magazine, May 1979; and \"Middle Woman\", \"Dragons of Darkness\", Ace Books, 1982.\n\nHe used the name Brian Green in the July 1977 fine arts issue of \"Ensign\" magazine. He used this name for his short play \"The Rag Mission\" because he had three other pieces appearing in the same issue. The name Dinah Kirkham was used to write the short story \"The Best Day\", in 1983. The name Noam D. Pellume was used by Card for his short story \"Damn Fine Novel\" which appeared in the October 1989 issue of \"The Green Pages\".\n\nCard wrote the novel \"Zanna's Gift\" (2004) under the pen name Scott Richards, saying, \"I was trying to establish a separate identity in the marketplace, but for various reasons the marketing strategy didn't work as we'd hoped.\"\n\nIn 2005, Card accepted a permanent appointment as \"distinguished professor\" at Southern Virginia University in Buena Vista, Virginia, a small liberal arts college run according to the principles of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Card has cited his frustration with the dismal teaching methodology for creative writing in most universities as a reason for accepting this position, along with his desire to teach the techniques of effective fiction writing to writers whose values are more congruent with his own. Card has worked closely with colleagues to develop ways to educate aspiring writers and has published two books on the subject. He was eager for the opportunity to apply these techniques in a university environment—his assorted workshops did not allow the follow-through he desired. After being deeply moved by stories of his students' parents in some of their essays, he decided to stop teaching regularly at the university to spend time with his youngest child who still lives at home. Card returned to teaching for the spring semester of 2009.\n\nCard has taught multiple courses in English and creative writing including courses analyzing the works of J. R. R. Tolkien and C.S. Lewis, hymn and lyric writing, and LDS fiction.\n\nCard has written two books on the subject of creative writing – \"Characters and Viewpoint\", published in 1988, and \"How to Write Science Fiction and Fantasy\", published in 1990. He was also a co-writer for \"How to Write a Million\" (though his contribution is actually a reprint of an earlier work).\n\nCard also offered advice about writing in an interview in \"Leading Edge\" #23 in 1991.\n\nCard serves as a judge in Writers of the Future, a science fiction and fantasy story contest for amateur writers. It originated in the early 1980s by L. Ron Hubbard, a science fiction writer and the founder of the Church of Scientology, and continues to be funded and organized by Author Services Inc., an entity that manages Hubbard's literary work.\n\nCard won the ALA Margaret Edwards Award in 2008 for his contribution in writing for teens, selected by a panel of YA librarians. \"What have I done that made some wonderfully deluded people think that I should get the [award] for lifetime achievement in writing young adult fiction?\" he asked in his address, and asserted that \"There is no such thing as children's literature.\" Furthermore:\n\nI have not worked with YA editors; my work has never been marketed that way until Tor put a YA cover and a new ISBN on \"Ender's Game\"—fifteen years after the book first came out, and long after it had become popular with young readers. \"Ender's Game\" was written with no concessions to young readers. My protagonists were children, but the book was definitely not aimed at kids. I was perfectly aware that the rule of thumb for children's literature is that the protagonist must be a couple of years older than the target audience. You want ten-year-old readers, you have a twelve-year-old hero.\nAt the beginning of the book, Ender is six. Who, exactly, is the target audience?\n\nCard created a website, Strong Verse that publishes poetry from authors living and dead with the aim of showcasing works that present a clear message in clear language. The following motto appears on the website's header: \"Good poetry is meant to be understood, not decoded.\"\n\nSince 2001, Card's commentary includes the political columns \"War Watch\", \"World Watch\", or \"Civilization Watch\" (depending on Card's topic) and the column \"Uncle Orson Reviews Everything\", all published at the Greensboro \"Rhinoceros Times\". The last-named column features personal reviews of movies, books, and restaurants in the greater Greensboro area, in addition to a variety of other topics. The column also later appears on his website, Hatrack River. Since 2008 Card has written a column for the \"Mormon Times\".\n\nCard's vocal opposition to same-sex marriage and other views on homosexuality led to a boycott of the film version of \"Ender's Game\" – a development which itself received criticism. Owing to political developments, by the early 2010s Card believed the question of U.S. legalization of same-sex marriage moot.\n\nDescribing himself as a political liberal and moral conservative, Card's ideals concerning society—as well as foundational themes within his fiction—are described as communitarian. In 2000, Card said, \"Most of the program of both the left and the right is so unbelievably stupid it's hard to wish to identify myself with either. But on economic matters, I'm a committed communitarian. I regard the Soviet Union as simply state monopoly capitalism. It was run the way the United States would be if Microsoft owned everything. Real communism has never been tried! I would like to see government controls expanded, laws that allow capitalism to not reward the most rapacious, exploitative behavior. I believe government has a strong role to protect us from capitalism.\"\n\nA vocal supporter of the U.S.'s War on Terror, according to \"Salon\", Card is close to neoconservative concerning foreign policy issues.\n\nA member of the U.S. Democratic Party since 1976, Card supported Republican presidential candidates John McCain in 2008 and Newt Gingrich.\n\nIn an August 2013 essay, presented as an \"experiment\" in fiction-writing called \"The Game of Unlikely Events\", Card described an alternative future in which President Barack Obama ruled as a \"Hitler- or Stalin-style dictator\" with his own national police force of young unemployed men; Obama and his wife Michelle would have amended the U.S. Constitution to allow presidents to remain in power for life, as in Nigeria, Zimbabwe, and Hitler's Germany. Card's essay drew extensive criticism, especially for allusions to Obama's race with its reference to \"urban gangs\".\n\nCard has publicly declared his opposition to homosexuality and same-sex marriage.\n\nIn a 1990 essay he wrote that \"laws against homosexual behavior should remain on the books, not to be indiscriminately enforced\", but to \"send a clear message that those who flagrantly violate society's regulation of sexual behavior cannot be permitted to remain as acceptable, equal citizens within that society\". In the same essay, Card clarified his position, writing:\n\nIn May 2013 Card further wrote that since the US Supreme Court had ruled those laws unconstitutional in 2003, he has \"no interest in criminalizing homosexual acts\". Responding to public criticism of the 1990 essay, Card noted:\nIn a 2008 opinion piece in the \"Deseret News\" he wrote that \"no matter how close the bonds of affection and friendship might be within same-sex couples, there is no act of court or Congress that can make these relationships the same as the coupling between a man and a woman.\" In 2009 he joined the board of directors of the National Organization for Marriage, a group that campaigns against same-sex marriage, but later resigned from the board in mid-2013. Card has stated that there is no need to legalize gay marriage.\n\nCard has also expressed his opinion that paraphilia and homosexuality are linked. In 2004, he claimed that it is a \"myth that homosexuals are 'born that way, noting that \"if there is a genetic component to homosexuality, an entire range of environmental influences are also involved.\" He continued, saying that \"the dark secret of homosexual society\" was how often people \"entered into that world through disturbing seduction or rape or molestation or abuse\".\n\nIn Card's 2008 novella \"Hamlet's Father\", which re-imagines the backstory of Shakespeare's play \"Hamlet\", Card was accused of directly trying to link the king's pedophilia with homosexuality. The novella prompted public outcry and its publishers were inundated with complaints. Trade journal \"Publishers Weekly\" criticized Card's work, stating that the main purpose of it was to attempt to link homosexuality to pedophilia. Card responded to the claim: \"...[T]here is no link whatsoever between homosexuality and pedophilia in this book. Hamlet's father, in the book, is a pedophile, period. I don't show him being even slightly attracted to adults of either sex. It is the reviewer, not me, who has asserted this link, which I would not and did not make.\"\n\nIn 2013, Card was selected as a guest author for DC Comics's new \"Adventures of Superman\" comic book series, but controversy over Card's views on homosexuality led illustrator Chris Sprouse to leave the project and DC Comics to put Card's story on hold indefinitely. A few months later an LGBT group, Geeks OUT!, proposed a boycott of the movie adaptation of \"Ender's Game\" calling Card's view anti-gay, causing the movie studio Lionsgate to publicly distance itself from Card's opinions.\n\nIn July 2013, one week after the U.S. Supreme Court issued rulings in two cases that were widely interpreted as favoring recognition of same-sex marriages, Card wrote in \"Entertainment Weekly\" that the gay marriage issue is moot due to the Supreme Court's decision on DOMA. He further stated, \"now it will be interesting to see whether the victorious proponents of gay marriage will show tolerance toward those who disagreed with them when the issue was still in dispute\".\n\nCard's membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been an important facet of his life from early on. He is a great-great-grandson of Brigham Young, the second Latter-day Saint prophet, and all of Card's ancestors for at least three generations have been members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. His ancestors include several other figures notable in the Church, including the Cardston colony founder Charles Ora Card. As such, his faith has been a source of inspiration and influence for both his writing and his personal views. Since 2008 Card has written a column of Latter-day Saint devotional and cultural commentary for the Sunday national edition of the \"Deseret News\" (formerly \"the \"Mormon Times\"\"). Card has served as a bishop of his ward and has held various other church callings.\n\nCard and his wife, Kristine, have had five children, each named after one or more authors he and his wife admire. Their children's names are Michael Geoffrey (Geoffrey Chaucer), Emily Janice (Emily Brontë and Emily Dickinson), Charles Benjamin (Charles Dickens), Zina Margaret (Margaret Mitchell) and Erin Louisa (Louisa May Alcott). Charles, who had cerebral palsy, died shortly after his 17th birthday and their daughter Erin died the day she was born. Card and his wife live with their youngest child, Zina, in Greensboro, North Carolina.\n\nThe life of their son, Charles, influenced some of Card's fiction, most notably the \"Homecoming\" series, \"Lost Boys\" and \"Folk of the Fringe\". Their daughter, Emily, along with two other writers, adapted Card's short stories \"Clap Hands and Sing\", \"Lifeloop\" and \"A Sepulchre of Songs\" for the stage in \"Posing as People\".\n\nIn 2008, he appeared in the short film \"The Delivery\", which starred his daughter, Emily. He plays an author reading an audiobook in this film, which won First Place in Fantasy at Dragon*Con Film Festival. He wrote an original story, \"The Emperor of the Air\", specifically for the short film by Gabrielle de Cuir and Stefan Rudnicki.\n\nCard is an avid fan of the science fiction television series \"Firefly\" and makes an appearance in the documentary \"Done the Impossible\" about \"Firefly\" fandom. He has also served on the boards of a number of organizations, including public television station UNC-TV (2013–present) and the National Organization for Marriage (2009–2013).\n\nCard suffered a mild stroke on January 1, 2011, and was briefly hospitalized. He reported expecting to make a full recovery despite impairment of his left hand.\n\nThe ALA Margaret A. Edwards Award recognizes one writer and a particular body of work for \"significant and lasting contributions to young adult literature\". Card won the annual award in 2008, citing \"Ender's Game\" (1985), which inaugurated the science fiction Ender Saga, and \"Ender's Shadow\" (1999), the so-called parallel novel featuring another boy in the Battle School. According to the citation, the two boys' \"experiences echo those of teens, beginning as children navigating in an adult world and growing into a state of greater awareness of themselves, their communities and the larger universe.\"\nIn the same year, Card won the Lifetime Achievement Award for Mormon writers (Whitney Awards).\n\nHe has also won numerous awards for single works. \n\nIn 1978, the Harold B. Lee Library acquired the Orson Scott Card papers, which included Card's works, writing notes and letters, and in 2007 the collection was formally opened.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "980222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=980222", "title": "Pavel Jozef Šafárik", "text": "Pavel Jozef Šafárik\n\nPavel Jozef Šafárik (Slovak: Pavol Jozef Šafárik;13 May 1795 – 26 June 1861) was a Slovak philologist, poet, one of the first scientific Slavists; literary historian, historian and ethnographer.\n\nHis father Pavol Šafárik (1761–1831) was a Protestant clergyman in Kobeliarovo (Kisfeketepatak) and before that a teacher in Štítnik (Csetnek), where he was also born. His mother, Katarína Káresová (1764–1812) was born in a poor lower gentry family in Hanková (Annafalva) and had several jobs in order to help the family in the poor region of Kobeliarovo.\n\nP.J. Šafárik had two elder brothers and one elder sister. One brother, Pavol Jozef as well, died before Šafárik was born. In 1813, after Katarína's death, Šafárik's father married the widow Rozália Drábová, although Šafárik and his brothers and sister were against this marriage. The local teacher provided Šafárik with Czech books.\n\nOn the 17 of June 1822, when he was in Serbia (see below), P. J. Šafárik married 19-year-old Júlia Ambrózy de Séden (; 1803–1876), a highly intelligent member of lower gentry born in 1803 in present-day Serbia.\n\nShe spoke Slovak, Czech, Serbian and Russian, and supported Šafárik in his scientific work. In Serbia, they also had three daughters (Ľudmila, Milena, Božena) and two sons (Mladen Svatopluk, Vojtěch), but the first two daughters and the first son died shortly after their birth. Upon Šafárik's arrival in Prague, they had 6 further children, out of which one died shortly after its birth.\n\nHis eldest son Vojtěch (1831–1902) became an important chemist, Jaroslav (1833–1862) became a military doctor and later the supreme assistant at the Joseph Academy in Vienna, Vladislav (1841-?) became a professional soldier, and Božena (1831–?) married Josef Jireček (1825–1888), a Czech literary historian, politician and a tutor in Šafarík's family. Vojtech wrote an interesting biography of his father - \"Co vyprávěl P. J. Šafařík\" (What Šafárik said) - and the son of Božena and Jireček the study \"Šafařík mezi Jihoslovany\" (Šafárik among the Southern Slavs).\n\nPavel spent his childhood in the region of Kobeliarovo in northern Gemer (Gömör) characterized by attractive nature and rich Slovak culture. He gained his basic education from his father. As P. J. Šafárik's son Vojtech put it later in his book (see Family): \"When, at the age of 7, his father showed him only one alphabet, he by himself hands down learned to read, and from then on he was always sitting on the stove and was reading. By the age of eight, he had read the whole Bible twice and one of his favorite activities was preaching to his brothers and sister, and to local people.\"\n\nIn 1805–08 Šafárik studied at a \"lower gymnasium\" (in some sources described as Protestant school which was just changed into a middle Latin school) in Rožňava (Rozsnyó), where he learned Latin, German and Hungarian. Since he did not have enough money to finance his studies, he continued his studies in Dobšiná (Dobsina) for two years, because he could live there with his sister.\n\nAt that time, it was absolutely necessary for anyone, who wanted to become a successful scientist in the Kingdom of Hungary (which included today's Slovakia) to have a good command of Latin, German, and Hungarian. Since the school in Rožňava specialized in Hungarian and the school in Dobšiná in German, and Šafárik was an excellent student and both schools had a good reputation, all prerequisites for a successful career were fulfilled as early as at the age of 15.\n\nIn 1810-1814 he studied at the Evangelical lyceum of Kežmarok (Késmárk), where he got to know many Polish, Serbian and Ukrainian students and his most important friend Ján Blahoslav Benedikti, with whom they together read texts of Slovak and Czech national revivalists, especially those of Josef Jungmann. He was also familiarized with classical literature and German esthetics (also thanks to the excellent library of the lyceum), and started to show interest in Serbian culture.\n\nHe graduated from the following branches of study: philosophy (including logic, metaphysics, mathematics, physics, \"economia ruralis\", Latin style, comparative philosophy and history of the Kingdom of Hungary), politics and law (including \"jus naturae\", \"jus privatum civile et criminale\", \"scienciae politicae\"), and theology (including dogmatic and moral theology, hermeneutics, Greek language, Hebrew language, physics, medicine, natural law, state law and international law). The studies at this school were very important; since this was a largely German school, he was able to get a (partial) scholarship for a university in Germany.\n\nHe worked as a private tutor in the family of Dávid Goldberger in Kežmarok between 1812 and 1814, which he also did one year after the end of his studies in Kežmarok. His mother died in late 1812 and his father remarried 6 months later. His first larger work was a volume of poems entitled \"The Muse of Tatras with a Slavonic Lyre\" published in 1814 (see Works). The poems were written in the old-fashioned standard of the Moravian Protestant translation of the Bible that the Slovak Lutherans used in their publications with many elements from the Slovak and some from the Polish language.\n\nIn 1815 he began to study at the University of Jena, where he turned from a poet into a scientist. It was the wish of his father, who financed him, to study there.\n\nHe attended lectures in history, philology, philosophy and natural sciences (lectures held by the professors Fries, Oken, Luden, Eichenstädt), studied books of Herder and Fichte, was observing current literature and studied classical literature. While there he translated into Czech the \"Clouds\" of Aristophanes (issued in the Časopis Českého musea [Journal of the Bohemian museum] in 1830) and the \"Maria Stuart\" of Schiller (issued in 1831).\n\nIn 1816, he became a member of the Latin Society of Jena. 17 of Šafárik's poems written at this time (1815–16) appeared in the \"Prvotiny pěkných umění\" by Hromádka in Vienna and made Šafárik well-known among the Slovaks and the Czech lands. In Jena, which Šafárik liked very much, he mainly learned to apply scientific methods and found a lot of new friends. One of them was the important Slovak writer Ján Chalupka, and another one, Samuel Ferjenčík, introduced him to Johann Wolfgang Goethe. Although he was an excellent student, Šafárik had to leave the University of Jena in May 1817 for unknown reasons (probably lack of money).\n\nIn 1817, on his way back home, he visited Leipzig and Prague. In Prague, where he was searching for a tutor job, he spent one month and joined the literary circle, whose members were Josef Dobrovsky, Josef Jungmann and Vaclav Hanka, whom Šafárik thus got to know in person.\n\nBetween the summer of 1817 and June 1819, he worked as a tutor in Pressburg (Bratislava) in the well-known family of Gašpar Kubínyi. He also became a good friend of the Czech František Palacký, with whom he had already exchanged letters before and who was also a tutor in Pressburg at that time. The town of Pressburg was a social and intellectual center of the Kingdom of Hungary at that time. In the spring of 1819, Šafárik befriended the important Slovak writer and politician Ján Kollár.\n\nBefore he left for Serbia, Šafárik spent some time in Kobeliarovo and with his grandfather in Hanková. This was the last time Šafárik saw his native country.\n\nIn April 1819, his friend Ján Blahoslav Benedikti helped him to get a doctor's degree, which he needed in order to become headmaster of a new gymnasium in Novi Sad (Újvidék), in the south of the Kingdom of Hungary, where he befriended the teacher and writer Georgije Magarašević. From 1819 to 1833 he was headmaster and teacher at the Serbian Orthodox gymnasium at Novi Sad. All other teachers at the gymnasium were Serbs, including novelist Milovan Vidaković, who taught there at the same time as Šafárik. He himself taught mathematics, physics, logic, rhetoric, poetry, stylistics and classic literature in Latin, German, and when Magyarization (Hungarisation) by the authorities intensified, also in Hungarian. From 1821 onwards, he also worked as a tutor of the son of the nephew of Metropolitan Stefan Stratimirović. In 1824 he had to renounce the post of headmaster because the Austrian government prohibited the Serbian Orthodox Church from employing Protestants from the Kingdom of Hungary. This caused Šafárik, who had to finance his newly arisen family, to lose a substantial source of income. He therefore tried to find a teaching position in his native country, but for various reasons he did not succeed. In Novi Sad he studied Serbian literature and antiquities, and he acquired many rare - especially Old Church Slavonic - books and manuscripts, which he used in Prague later. He also published a collection of Slovak folk songs and sayings in collaboration with Ján Kollár and others (\"see Works\"). In 1826 his \"Geschichte der slawischen Sprache und Literatur nach allen Mundarten\" was published. This book was the first attempt to give anything like a systematic account of the Slavonic languages as a whole.\n\nIn 1832 he finally decided to leave Novi Sad and tried to find a teacher or librarian job in Russia, but again without success. In 1833, with the help of Ján Kollár and on invitation of influential friends in Prague who promised to finance him, he went to Prague, where he spent the remainder of his life. During his entire stay in Prague, especially in the 1840s, his very existence depended on the 380 guldens he received annually from his Czech friends under the condition which explicitly expressed František Palacký: \"From now on, anything you write, you will write it in the Czech language only.\" Šafárik was an editor of the journal \"Světozor\" (1834–1835). In 1837 poverty compelled him to accept the uncongenial office of censor of Czech publications, which he abandoned in 1847. Between 1838 and 1842 he was first editor, later conductor, of the journal \"Časopis Českého musea\", since 1841 he was a custodian of the Prague University Library. In Prague, he published most of his works, especially his greatest work \"Slovanské starožitnosti\" (\"Slavonic Antiquities\") in 1837. He also edited the first volume of the \"Výbor\" (selections from old Czech writers), which appeared under the auspices of the Prague literary society in 1845. To this he prefixed a grammar of the Old Czech language (\"Počátkové staročeské mluvnice\").\n\nIn the papers collection \"Hlasowé o potřebě jednoty spisowného jazyka pro Čechy, Morawany a Slowáky\" (\"Voices on the necessity of a united standard language for the Bohemians, Moravians and Slovaks\") published by Ján Kollár in 1846, Šafárik moderately criticized Ľudovít Štúr's introduction of a new Slovak standard language (1843) that replaced the previously used Lutheran standard which was closer to the Czech language (the Slovak Catholics used a different standard). Šafárik – as opposed to most of his Czech colleagues – always considered the Slovaks a separate nation from the Czechs (e.g. explicitly in his works \"Geschichte der slawischen Sprache...\" and in \"Slovanský národopis\") but he advocated the use of Slovacized Czech (\"Slovak style of the Czech language\") as the only literary language among the Slovak people.\n\nDuring the Revolution of 1848 he was mainly collecting material for books on the oldest Slavic history. In 1848 he was made head of the University Library of Prague and a masterful professor of Slavonic philology in the University of Prague, but resigned to the latter in 1849 and remained head of the university library only. The reason for this resignation was that during the Revolution of 1848-49 he participated at the Slavic Congress in Prague in June 1848 and thus became suspicious for Austrian authorities. During the absolutistic period following the defeat of the revolution, he lived a secluded life and studied especially older Czech literature and Old Church Slavonic texts and culture.\n\nIn 1856/57, as a result of persecution anxieties, overwork, and ill health, he became physically and mentally ill and burned most of his correspondence with important personalities (e.g. with Ján Kollár). In May 1860, his depressions made him jump into the Vltava river, but he was saved. This event produced considerable sensation among the general public. In early October 1860 he asked for retirement from his post as University Library head. The Austrian emperor himself enabled him this in a letter written by his majesty himself and granted him a pension, which corresponded to Šafárik's previous full pay. Šafárik died in 1861 in Prague and was buried in the evangelical cemetery in Karlín Quarter.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21859341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21859341", "title": "Phonological rule", "text": "Phonological rule\n\nA phonological rule is a formal way of expressing a systematic phonological or morphophonological process or diachronic sound change in language. Phonological rules are commonly used in generative phonology as a notation to capture sound-related operations and computations the human brain performs when producing or comprehending spoken language. They may use phonetic notation or distinctive features or both.\n\nJohn Goldsmith (1995) defines phonological rules as mappings between two different levels of sounds representation—in this case, the abstract or underlying level and the surface level—and Bruce Hayes (2009) describes them as \"generalizations\" about the different ways a sound can be pronounced in different environments. That is to say, phonological rules describe how a speaker goes from the abstract representation stored in their brain, to the actual sound they articulate when they speak. In general, phonological rules start with the \"underlying representation\" of a sound (the phoneme that is stored in the speaker's mind) and yield the final \"surface form\", or what the speaker actually pronounces. When an underlying form has multiple surface forms, this is often referred to as allophony. For example, the English plural \"-s\" may be pronounced as [s] (in \"cats\"), [z] (in \"cabs\"), or as [əz] (in \"buses\"); these forms are all theorized to be stored mentally as the same \"-s\", but the surface pronunciations are derived through a phonological rule.\n\nIn most dialects of American English, speakers have a process known as intervocalic alveolar flapping that changes the consonants /t/ and /d/ into a quick flap consonant ([ɾ] in words such as \"butter\" () and \"notable\" (). The stop consonants /t/ and /d/ only become a flap in between two vowels, where the first vowel is stressed and the second is stressless. It is common to represent phonological rules using formal rewrite rules in the most general way possible. Thus, the intervocalic alveolar flapping described above can be formalized as\n\nThe rule given above for intervocalic alveolar flapping describes what sound is changed, what the sound changes to, and where the change happens (in other words, what the \"environment\" is that triggers the change). The illustration below presents the same rule, with each of its parts labelled and described.\nTaken together and read from left to right, this notation of the rule for intervocalic alveolar flapping states that any alveolar stop consonant (/t/ or /d/) becomes a tap ([ɾ]) in the environment where it is preceded by a stressed vowel and followed by an unstressed one.\n\nPhonological rules are often written using distinctive features, which are (supposedly) natural characteristics that describe the acoustic and articulatory makeup of a sound; by selecting a particular bundle, or \"matrix,\" of features, it is possible to represent a group of sounds that form a natural class and pattern together in phonological rules. For example, in the rule above, rather than writing /t/ and /d/ separately, phonologists may write the features that they have in common, thus capturing the whole set of sounds that are stop consonants and are pronounced by placing the tongue against the alveolar ridge. In the most commonly used feature system, the features to represent these sounds would be [+delayed release, +anterior, -distributed], which describe the manner of articulation and the position and shape of the tongue when pronouncing these two sounds. But rules are not always written using features; in some cases, especially when the rule applies only to a single sound, rules are written using the symbols of the International Phonetic Alphabet.\n\nHayes (2009) lists the following characteristics that all phonological rules have in common:\n\nPhonological rules can be roughly divided into four types:\n\n"}
{"id": "1660577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1660577", "title": "Police power (United States constitutional law)", "text": "Police power (United States constitutional law)\n\nIn United States constitutional law, police power is the capacity of the states to regulate behavior and enforce order within their territory for the betterment of the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of their inhabitants. Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, the powers not delegated to the Federal Government are reserved to the states or to the people. This implies that the Federal Government does not possess all possible powers, because most of these are reserved to the State governments, and others are reserved to the people.\n\nPolice power is exercised by the legislative and executive branches of the various states through the enactment and enforcement of laws. States have the power to compel obedience to these laws through whatever measures they see fit, provided these measures do not infringe upon any of the rights protected by the United States Constitution or in the various state constitutions, and are not unreasonably arbitrary or oppressive. Methods of enforcement can include legal sanctions, physical means, and other forms of coercion and inducement. Controversies over the exercise of state police power can arise when exercise by state authorities conflicts with individual rights and freedoms.\n\nThe authority for use of police power under American Constitutional law has its roots in English and European common law traditions. Even more fundamentally, use of police power draws on two (Latin) principles, \"sic utere tuo ut alienum non laedas\" (\"use that which is yours so as not to injure others\"), and \"salus populi suprema lex esto\" (\"the welfare of the people shall be the supreme law\"), to justify restriction of individual liberties in order to protect the general welfare. The concept of police power in America was further expanded in a series of notable court cases in the late-nineteenth and early-twentieth centuries, including the landmark 1851 Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court case Commonwealth v. Alger, and the 1905 Supreme Court case Jacobson v. Massachusetts.\n\nDue to the nebulous definition of the police power, restrictions on its use are few and far between. In Commonwealth v. Alger, Chief Justice Lemuel Shaw wrote that \"It is much easier to perceive and realize the existence and sources of [the police power] than to mark its boundaries, or prescribe limits to exercise.\" However, according to historian Michael Willrich, \"Shaw recognized certain constitutional restraints on police power, but they were few. Laws must apply equally to all under like circumstances... government interferences with individual rights must be 'reasonable' – they must have a clear relation to some legitimate legislative purpose. Beyond those outer limits... most courts stayed out of the way of state police power.\" Later court cases have expanded somewhat on these restrictions by limiting the ability of states to infringe upon implied constitutional rights and by demanding a stricter standard of reasonability, but regulation of police power remains fairly minimal.\n\nThe police power is the basis for land-use planning authority in the United States. This authority is usually delegated by state governments to local governments, including counties and municipalities. It is these local governments that most frequently exercise police power in land use planning matters. The regulation of land use based on police power is distinct from the taking of private property by the government through the power of eminent domain. If the regulation of land use is done under the authority of the police power, the private property owner isn't typically entitled to compensation as they would be if property was taken under the power of eminent domain. The court decision in the case Commonwealth v. Alger was related to land use planning and dealt with the construction of a wharf on privately owned tidelands around Boston Harbor.\n\n"}
{"id": "17598155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17598155", "title": "Political lists", "text": "Political lists\n\nThis page is a list of political lists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12089906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12089906", "title": "Rita Clay Estrada", "text": "Rita Clay Estrada\n\nRita Clay Estrada (born July 31, 1941, in Michigan, US) is a US writer of romance novels as Rita Clay, Tira Lacy and Rita Clay Estrada, she has also written non-fiction books about writing romance novels. She was the first president of the Romance Writers of America, and founding member with her mother Rita Gallagher.\n\nBorn Rita Clay on July 31, 1941, in Michigan, US. Her mother, Rita Gallagher, was a former Miss Michigan, a romance novelist and a noted writing instructor, while her father was a pilot with the U.S. Air Force. She spent much of her early years living in Europe. She married her high school sweetheart when she was very young and stayed at home to raise their four children. In 1977, when she had been married about 20 years, her husband brought her a typewriter and said, \"'You said you always wanted to write. Now write.'\"\n\nHer first attempt was a long historical romance which was promptly rejected. Her next manuscript, a contemporary romance, was likewise rejected. Her third manuscript, \"Wanderer's Dream,\" sold to Silhouette Books. She used her maiden name, Rita Clay for that and an additional seven titles for Silhouette. In 1982, she moved to Dell to write for their Candlelight Ecstasy line. Harlequin owned her pen name, so she wrote as Tira Lacy, an anagram of Rita Clay. In 1985 she re-signed with Harlequin and asked to use her full name, Rita Clay Estrada, on all future books.\n\nShe generally takes 4.5 months to write a novel. Except for punctuation and fact-checking, she does very little rewriting, as \"that's why there are editors.\" Generally, she writes five pages each night and more on the weekends. Her novels have been translated in 23 languages.\n\nEstrada was a founding member and the first president of the Romance Writers of America (RWA). Their signature award, the RITA, which is the highest award of excellence given in the genre of romantic fiction, is named for her. The RWA also awarded Estrada their Lifetime Achievement Award in 2000.\n\nShe and her husband are divorced.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25355418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25355418", "title": "Robert J. Alexander", "text": "Robert J. Alexander\n\nRobert Jackson \"Bob\" Alexander (November 26, 1918 – April 27, 2010) was an American political activist, writer, and academic who spent most of his professional career at Rutgers University. He is best remembered for his pioneering studies on the trade union movement in Latin America and dissident communist political parties, including ground-breaking monographs on the International Communist Right Opposition, Maoism, and the international Trotskyist movement.\n\nRobert J. Alexander was born in Canton, Ohio on November 26, 1918. His family moved to Leonia, New Jersey in 1922, when his father, Ralph S. Alexander accepted a teaching position at Columbia University. Alexander graduated from the public high school in 1936 and matriculated at Columbia, receiving a B.A. in 1940 and a Master of Arts degree the following year. In 1936 Alexander took a senior trip to Spain, which sparked a lifelong interest in Hispanic cultures.\n\nAlexander was drafted in April 1942 into the United States Army Air Corps. He spent 25 months stationed in Great Britain, during which time he spent his off hours speaking to a number of British trade unionists, taking extensive notes of his conversations. These discussions helped Alexander to refine an interview style of research which would later become a hallmark of his academic work.\n\nAfter demobilization he began work for the State Department. While there, he received a grant from the Office of International Exchange of Persons of the State Department to work on his Ph.D. dissertation on labor relations in Chile, where he conducted hundreds of interviews in virtually all the major factories of the country. He received his Ph.D. from Columbia in 1950.\n\nAlexander was married to Joan O. Powell in 1949. The couple had two children.\n\nAlexander was active in the socialist and trade union movements. In 1934, politicized by the Great Depression, Alexander joined the Young People's Socialist League, the youth section of the Socialist Party of America. He continued organizing activities for YPSL while at Columbia and remained an active member of its parent group, the Socialist Party of America, serving as a member of its executive council 1957 to 1966. When the Socialist Party changed its name in December 1972 to Social Democrats, USA (SDUSA), he maintained his membership until 1980; according to Perrone's biographical sketch, Alexander thought that SDUSA had become \"too conservative\".\n\nIt was as a leader of the New Jersey YPSLs that he first met Jay Lovestone, then head of the Communist Party, Opposition. Alexander would later go on six missions to Latin America for Lovestone, first under the auspices of the Free Trade Union Committee, then under the direction of the AFL-CIO International Department.\n\nAlexander was a member of the Board of Directors of the Rand School of Social Science from 1952 until its closure in 1956. He served on the League for Industrial Democracy's National Council and was an active member of Americans for Democratic Action and a delegate to several of its national conventions.\n\nDuring the 1950s, Alexander served as a consultant for the American Federation of Labor and AFL-CIO on the organized labor movement in Latin American and the Caribbean. In 1961, he was named by president-elect John F. Kennedy to the Task Force on Latin America, which recommended the establishment of the Alliance for Progress.\n\nAlexander was also a lifelong member of the Council on Foreign Relations.\n\nAlexander became an instructor at Rutgers while still in Chile in the late 1940s. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1950, associate professor in 1956, and full professor in 1961.\n\nAlthough Alexander was a member of the Economics department at Rutgers, he was an interdisciplinary scholar, working extensively in the fields of political science and history. Alexander was regarded as a champion of the principle of academic freedom and was a founder of the faculty union at Rutgers. In 1963 Alexander achieved his \"highest honor\", the Order of the Condor of the Andes from the Bolivian government.\n\nAlexander was a founding member of the Middle Atlantic Council of Latin American Studies (MACLAS), and served as the group's president from 1987 to 1988.\n\nDuring his career, Alexander wrote and published extensively on Latin American politics and trade union movements, as well as surveys on dissident radical movements such as the Right Opposition, Trotskyism, and Maoism.\n\nAlexander retired from Rutgers in 1989.\n\nRobert J. Alexander died April 27, 2010. He was 91 years old at the time of his death.\n\nAlexander's voluminous papers are housed by the Special Collections and University Archives section of Rutgers University, located in New Brunswick, New Jersey. The collection includes of material, which is housed off site.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58109649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58109649", "title": "Rubus Arcticus (grant)", "text": "Rubus Arcticus (grant)\n\nThe Rubus arcticus is an annual cultural grant awarded by the County Council of Norrbotten County. The grant is named after the scientific name for the nagoon, which is the provincial flower of Norrbotten.  \n\nThe grant is a development grant worth 100,000 SEK awarded to professional artists. From 1995 until 1998, it was awarded twice a year, once in the spring and once in the fall, to four artists each time. From 1998 until 2001, it was awarded to eight artists once a year. Since 2001, the grant has been awarded to four artists once a year.\n\n"}
{"id": "57953371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57953371", "title": "Saint Jerome in Meditation (Piero di Cosimo)", "text": "Saint Jerome in Meditation (Piero di Cosimo)\n\nSaint Jerome in Meditation is an oil on panel painting by Piero di Cosimo, dating to c.1495-1500 and now in the Museo Horne in Florence.\n\n"}
{"id": "25948756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25948756", "title": "Salva congruitate", "text": "Salva congruitate\n\nSalva congruitate is a Latin scholastic term in logic, which means \"without becoming ill-formed\", \"salva\" meaning \"rescue\", \"salvation\", \"welfare\" and \"congruitate\" meaning \"combine\", \"coincide\", \"agree\". Salva Congruitate is used in logic to mean that two terms may be substituted for each other while preserving grammaticality in all contexts.\n\nTimothy C. Potts describes \"salva congruitate\" as a form of replacement in the context of meaning. It is a replacement which preserves semantic coherence and should be distinguished from a replacement which preserves syntactic coherence but may yield an expression to which no meaning has been given. This means that supposing an original expression is meaningful, the new expression obtained by the replacement will also be meaningful, though it will not necessarily have the same meaning as the original one, nor, if the expression in question happens to be a proposition, will the replacement necessarily preserve the truth value of the original.\n\nBob Hale explains \"salva congruitate\", as applied to singular terms, as substantival expressions in natural language, which are able to replace singular terms without destructive effect on the grammar of a sentence. Thus the singular term 'Bob' may be replaced by the definite description 'the first man to swim the English Channel' \"salva congruitate\". Such replacement may shift both meaning and reference, and so, if made in the context of a sentence, may cause a change in truth-value. Thus terms which may be interchanged \"salva congruitate\" may not be interchangeable \"salva veritate\" (preserving truth). More generally, expressions of any type are interchangeable \"salva congruitate\" if and only if they can replace one another preserving grammaticality or well-formedness.\n\n"}
{"id": "2997627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2997627", "title": "See a man about a dog", "text": "See a man about a dog\n\nTo see a man about a dog or horse is an English idiom, usually used as a way to apologize for one's imminent departure or absence—generally to euphemistically conceal one's true purpose, such as going to use the toilet or going to buy a drink. The original non-facetious meaning was probably to place or settle a bet on a racing dog.\n\nThe earliest confirmed publication is the 1866 Dion Boucicault play \"Flying Scud\" in which a character knowingly breezes past a difficult situation saying, \"Excuse me Mr. Quail, I can't stop; I've got to see a man about a dog.\" \"Time\" magazine observed that the phrase was the play's \"claim to fame\".\n\nDuring Prohibition in the United States, the phrase was most commonly used in relation to the consumption or purchase of alcoholic beverages. In Newcastle upon Tyne, Newcastle Brown Ale commonly gained the nickname of \"Dog\" from the frequent use of the phrase to describe going to the pub.\n\n"}
{"id": "26172967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26172967", "title": "Slavonic lettering", "text": "Slavonic lettering\n\nAlphabets that became a basis for Slavonic writing were called \"Glagolitic\" and \"Cyrillic\" alphabets. The history of their emergence is totally unknown. \n\nThe extant monuments of glagolitsa are dated no later than the end of the 10th century. Symbols as a rule are composed of two elements that are combined one above the other.\n\nSuch construction can be seen in the decoration of kirillitsa. It usually does not include simple forms. They are connected with straights. Some letters (ш, у, м, ч, э) correspond to their modern form. Regarding the form of letters there are two types of glagolitsa. The first one – Bulgarian glagolitsa – has roundish letters, and Croatian glagolitsa – called as well Illyrian or Dalmatian – has an angular forms of letters. Neither of the two types has strict border zones of spreading. Later glagolitsa borrowed many sounds from kirillitsa. West Slavic glagolitsa existed for only a short time and was replaced with the Latin writing. But glagolitsa did not perish in modern times. It was used up to the beginning of World War II, and was even used for newspapers. It is currently being used in Croatian settlements of Italy.\n\nIts origin remains unexplained. The title appeared later than the alphabet. St. Cyril, while travelling across Slavic countries during the 9th century definitely composed a new Slavonic alphabet. It is not known whether it was a glagolitic script or not. It was necessary to translate religious texts into the Slavonic language. To do that it would be necessary to simplify intricate and difficult-to-write symbols of glagolitsa, but at the same time introduce the lacking letters for sound denotations in the spoken Slavonic language.\n\nMany sources of the time describe this, but mention only one Slavonic alphabet though there were already two. The Cyrillic script has 43 letters, 24 of them were borrowed from the Byzantium paternal writing and the other 19 were invented anew, but in the graphic decorations similar to the first ones. But not all the borrowed letters kept the denotations of the same sound in the Greek language – some received new denotations peculiar to their Slavonic phonetic features.\n\nBulgarians have preserved the Cyrillic script to a greater extent than other Slavonians. Nowadays their writing (i.e. the Serbian language) is similar to Russian writing except several symbols designating specific phonetic features. The ancient form of the Cyrillic script is called \"uncial\". Uncial and glagolitic alphabet are wholly handwritten scripts. Uncial, as well as glagolitic alphabet, has a peculiar trait – clearness and straightness of tracings (writings).\n\nMost letters are angular and have graceless features. Exceptions are narrow roundish letters with round curves – (О, С, Э, Р and others), and among other letters these seem out of place. Lower elongations of certain letters (Р, У, 3) are idiosyncratic to this type of writing. They appear to be light decorative elements in the context of calligraphy. As for the diacritical symbols, their origin is still unclear. Uncial letters are all of a big size and are set separately from each other. The old uncial has no intervals between words.\n\nSemi-uncial was the second type of writing, that had been developed from the 14th century and later replaced the uncial. This script is brighter and more roundish. Its letters are more shallow: they have many superscript marks and the whole system of punctuation marks. Letters are more flexible and wide in comparison with the uncial writing and have lower and upper elongations. The broad-pen technique used while writing the uncial is seldom applied in the semi-uncial. Semi-uncial was used with cursive and ligature in the 14th–18th centuries along with the other writing styles.\n\nTo use semi-uncial in writing was more comfortable. Feudal atomism caused the development of unique uncial styles and even an uncial language in some remote districts. Military novels and chronicles occupy the bulk of these manuscripts, but some manuscripts recount historical events in Russia during that period. During Ivan III's reign when the land integration and consolidation around Moscow was finished, Moscow became not only a national, but also a cultural center; and the national Russian state was created under a new autocratic regime. So a local Moscow culture became an icon of Russian character. Along with the growing demands of everyday life, the necessity of a new and more simple script was born in the society of Moscow, and thus Russia at large.\n\nThe term \"cursive writing\" corresponds to the Latin cursive. At the first stage of scripts development the ancient Greeks had a widely spread writing culture. Some of the south-west Slavonians also had their own scripts. Cursive writing as a separate type of writing emerged in the 15th century in Russia. The partly bound letters and bright patterns differed from other scripts' letters. But since the letters had different marks and signs, pigtails, and additional symbols,\nit was difficult to read texts. Although cursive writing reflected semi-uncial, there were fine lines that bound letters, a feature that contrasts with the semi-uncial. This script is also more flexible and fluent. Letters of cursive writing were written with elongations.\n\nIn the beginning the symbols were composed of elongations as is specific to uncial and semi-uncial. In the second half of the 16th century, and especially in the beginning of the 17th century the semi-roundish lines became the major lines. In a broader historical perspective, it is possible to see some elements of the Greek cursive script.\n\nBy the second half of the 17th century, when many different variants of writing appeared, the cursive script showed more roundish elements and ligature. The roundish contour of letters became more decorative and smooth near the end of the century. Cursive writing of that time misses elements of the Greek cursive writing and discards some semi-uncial forms. Later straights and cursives attained balance and letters became more symmetrical and roundish. At that period the uncial was transformed into a civil writing cursive.\n"}
{"id": "292011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292011", "title": "Suzhou", "text": "Suzhou\n\nSuzhou (Wu Chinese [\"sou˥ tseu˨˩\" ]), formerly romanized as Soochow, is a major city located in southeastern Jiangsu Province of East China, about northwest of Shanghai. It is a major economic center and focal point of trade and commerce, and the second largest city in the province, after its capital Nanjing. The city is situated on the lower reaches of the Yangtze River and the shores of Lake Tai and belongs to the Yangtze River Delta region. Administratively, Suzhou is a prefecture-level city with a population of 4.33 million in its city proper, and a total resident population () of 10.58 million in its administrative area. Its urban population grew at an unprecedented rate of 6.5% between 2000 and 2014, which is the highest among cities with more than 5 million people.\n\nFounded in 514BC, Suzhou has over 2,500 years of history, with an abundant display of relics and sites of historical interest. Around AD100, during the Eastern Han Dynasty, it became one of the ten largest cities in the world mostly due to emigration from Northern China. Since the 10th-century Song Dynasty, it has been an important commercial center of China. During the Ming and Qing Dynasty, Suzhou was a national economic, cultural, and commercial center, as well as the largest non-capital city in the world, until the 1860 Taiping Rebellion. When Li Hongzhang and Charles George Gordon recaptured the city three years later, Shanghai had already taken its predominant place in the nation. Since major economic reforms began in 1978, Suzhou has become one of the fastest growing major cities in the world, with GDP growth rates of about 14% in the past 35 years. With high life expectancy and per capita incomes, Suzhou's Human Development Index ratings is roughly comparable to a moderately developed country, making it one of the most highly developed and prosperous cities in China.\n\nThe city's canals, stone bridges, pagodas, and meticulously designed gardens have contributed to its status as one of the top tourist attractions in China. The Classical Gardens of Suzhou were added to the list of the UNESCO World Heritage Sites in 1997 and 2000. Suzhou is often dubbed the \"Venice of the East\" or \"Venice of China\".\nDuring the Zhou, a settlement known as Gusu after nearby Mount Gusu ( , , \"Gūsūshān\") became the capital of the state of Wu. From this role, it also came to be called Wu as well. In 514BC, King Helü of Wu established a new capital nearby at Helü City and this grew into the modern city. During the Warring States period, Helü City continued to serve as the local seat of government. From the areas it administered, it became known as Wuxian (. \"Wu County\") and Wujun (\"Wu Commandery\"). Under the Qin, it was known as Kuaiji after its greatly enlarged commandery, which was named for the reputed resting place of Yu the Great near modern Shaoxing in Zhejiang.\n\nThe name Suzhou was first officially used for the city in AD 589 during the Sui dynasty. The character or is a contraction of the mountain and old name Gusu. The \"sū\" in its name refers to the mint perilla (\"shiso\"). The character originally meant something like a province or county (cf. Guizhou), but often came to be used metonymously for the capital of such a region (cf. Guangzhou, Hangzhou, etc.). Suzhou is the Hanyu Pinyin spelling of the Mandarin pronunciation of the name. Prior to the adoption of pinyin, it was variously romanized as Soo-chow, Suchow, or Su-chow.\n\nSuzhou, the cradle of Wu culture, is one of the oldest towns in the Yangtze Basin. By the Spring and Autumn period of the Zhou, local tribes named the Gou Wu are recorded living in the area which would become the modern city of Suzhou. These tribes formed villages on the edges of the hills above the wetlands surrounding Lake Tai.\n\nSima Qian's \"Records of the Grand Historian\" records traditional accounts that the Zhou lord Taibo established the state of Wu at nearby Wuxi during the 11th centuryBC, civilizing the local people and improving their agriculture and mastery of irrigation. The Wu court later moved to Gusu within the area of modern Suzhou. In 514BC, King Helü of Wu relocated his court nearby and called the settlement Helü City after himself. His minister Wu Zixu was closely involved with its planning and it was this site that grew into present-day Suzhou. The height of his tower on Gusu Hill (\"Gusutai\") passed into Chinese legend. In 496BC, King Helü was buried at Tiger Hill. In 473BC, Wu was defeated and annexed by Yue, a kingdom to its southeast; Yue was annexed in turn by Chu in 306BC. Remnants of the ancient kingdom include pieces of its 2,500-year-old city wall and the gate through it at Pan Gate.\n\nThe city was originally laid out according to a symbolic three-by-three grid of nine squares, with the royal palace occupying the central position.\n\nDuring the Warring States period, Suzhou was the seat of Wu County and Commandery. Following the Qin Empire's conquest of the area in 222BC, it was made the capital of Kuaiji Commandery, including lands stretching from the south bank of the Yangtze to the unconquered interior of Minyue in southern Zhejiang. Amid the collapse of the Qin, Kuaiji's governor Yin Tong attempted to organize his own rebellion only to be betrayed and executed by Xiang Liang and his nephew Xiang Yu, who launched their own rebellion from the city.\n\nWhen the Grand Canal was completed, Suzhou found itself strategically located on a major trade route. In the course of the history of China, it has been a metropolis of industry and commerce on the southeastern coast of China. During the Tang dynasty, the great poet Bai Juyi constructed the Shantang Canal (better known as \"Shantang Street\") to connect the city with Tiger Hill for tourists. In AD1035, the Suzhou Confucian Temple was founded by famed poet and writer Fan Zhongyan. It became a venue for the imperial civil examinations and then developed into the modern Suzhou High School in the 1910s.\nIn February 1130, the advancing Jin army from the north ransacked the city. This was followed by the Mongol invasion in 1275. In 1356, Suzhou became the capital of Zhang Shicheng, one of the leaders of the Red Turban Rebellion against the Yuan dynasty and the self-proclaimed King of Wu. In 1367, Zhang's Nanjing-based rival Zhu Yuanzhang took the city after a 10-month siege. Zhu who was soon to proclaim himself the first emperor of the Ming Dynasty demolished the royal city in the center of Suzhou's walled city and imposed crushing taxes on the city and prefecture's powerful families. Despite the heavy taxation and the resettlement of some of Suzhou's prominent citizens' to the area of Hongwu's capital at Nanjing, Suzhou was soon prosperous again. During the early Ming, Suzhou Prefecture supervised the Yangtze shoals which later became Shanghai's Chongming Island. For centuries the city, with its surroundings as an economic base, represented an extraordinary source of tax revenue.\n\nWhen the shipwrecked Korean official Choe Bu had a chance to see much of Eastern China from Zhejiang to Liaoning on his way home in 1488, he described Suzhou in his travel report as exceeding every other city. Many of the area's private gardens were constructed by the gentry of the Ming and Qing dynasties. The iconoclast Taipings captured the city in 1860, however, and its former buildings and gardens were \"almost... a heap of ruins\" by the time of their recovery by Charles Gordon's Ever-Victorious Army in November 1863. Nonetheless, by 1880, its population was estimated to have recovered to about 500,000, which remained stable for the next few decades. In the late 19th century, the town was particularly known for its wide range of silks and its Chinese-language publishing industry. The town was first opened to direct foreign trade by the Treaty of Shimonoseki ending the First Sino-Japanese War and by the most favored nation clauses of earlier unequal treaties with the Great Powers. The new expatriates opened a European-and-Chinese school in 1900 and the Suzhou Railway Station, connecting it with Shanghai, opened on July 16, 1906. Just prior to the First World War, there were 7000 silk looms in operation, as well as a cotton mill and a large trade in rice.\nAs late as the early 20th century, much of the city consisted of islands connected by rivers, creeks, and canals to the surrounding countryside. Prior to their demolition, the city walls ran in a circuit of about with four large suburbs lying outside. The Japanese invaded in 1937, and many gardens were again devastated by the end of the war. In the early 1950s, restoration was done on the Humble Administrator's Garden and the Lingering Garden.\n\nThe urban core of Suzhou is informally called the \"Old Town\". It is Gusu District. Suzhou Industrial Park is to the east of the old town, and Suzhou High & New Technology Development Zone is to the west. In 2000, the original Wu County was divided into two districts including Xiangcheng and Wuzhong. They now form the northern and southern parts of the city of Suzhou.In 2012, the original Wujiang City became Wujiang District of Suzhou City.\n\nSuzhou is one of the most prosperous cities in China. Its development has a direct correlation with the growth of its satellite cities, including Kunshan, Taicang, Changshu, and Zhangjiagang, which together with the city of Suzhou form the Suzhou prefecture. The Suzhou prefecture is home to many high-tech enterprises.\n\nSuzhou is on the Lake Tai Plain south of the Yangtze River, about to the west of Shanghai and just over east of Nanjing.\n\nSuzhou has a four-season humid subtropical climate with hot, humid summers and cool, cloudy, damp winters with occasional snowfall (Köppen climate classification \"Cfa\"). Northwesterly winds blowing from Siberia during winter can cause temperatures to fall below freezing at night, while southerly or southwesterly winds during the summer can push temperatures above . The hottest temperature recorded since 1951 was at on 7 August 2013, and the lowest at on 16 January 1958.\n\nSuzhou is famous for its over 60 Classical Gardens, collectively a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The city has the Most UNESCO-recognized gardens in the world.\nThe Humble Administrator's Garden and Lingering Garden are among the four most famous classical gardens in China. The Canglang Pavilion, Lion Grove Garden, Humble Administrator's Garden and Lingering Garden, respectively representing the garden styles of the Song, Yuan, Ming, and Qing dynasties, are called the four most famous gardens in Suzhou. Other gardens inscribed on the World Heritage List include the Couple's Retreat Garden, the Garden of Cultivation, and the Retreat and Reflection Garden.\n\nThe Suzhou section of the Jiangnan Canal, Grand Canal (China), includes ten city gates and over 20 stone bridges of traditional design and historic areas that have been well preserved, as well as temples and pavillions. \n\nIn 2015, both 800-year-old Pingjiang Road Historical Block () and 1,200-year-old Shantang Street Scenic Area () were added to the list of China's \"National Historic and Cultural Streets\". \n\nPingjiang Road runs parallel to the Pingjiang River for 1.5 kilometers and is lined with homes and some teahouses. Shantang Street, over twice as long at 3.8 km, is described by the BBC as retaining \"the alluring qualities of an old canal-side street: whitewashed buildings are completed by red-tasselled lanterns that swing softly in the breeze, adding to the charm of the river bank\". \n\nBoat tours are offered on the waterways of this city that was dubbed the \"Venice of the East\" by Marco Polo because of its criss-crossing canals and stone bridges. The Grand Canal (from Beijing to Zhejiang province) is a UNESCO World Heritage site.\n\nSuzhou Taihu National Tourism and Vacation Zone () is in the western part of Suzhou, from the city center.\n\nGate to the East is a 301.8 meter, 74-story skyscraper in Suzhou's central business district, built in 2015 at a cost of 700 million USD and is currently the tallest building in Suzhou.\n\nPan Gate () is on the southwest corner of the Main Canal or encircling canal of Suzhou. Originally built during the Warring States Period in the state of Wu, historians estimate it to be around 2,500 years old. It is now part of the \"Pan Gate Scenic Area\". It is known for the \"three landmarks of Pan Gate\". They are the Ruiguang Pagoda(), the earliest pagoda in Suzhou built in 247BC, the \"Wu Gate Bridge\", the entrance to the gate at that time over the water passage and the highest bridge in Suzhou at the time, and the \"Pan Gate\". The Ruigang Pagoda is constructed of brick with wooden platforms and has Buddhist carvings at its base.\n\nBaodai Bridge () stretches across the Tantai Lake in the suburbs of Suzhou. To raise money to finance the bridge, the magistrate donated his expensive belt, hence the name. The bridge was first built in 806 A.D. in the Tang Dynasty and has 53 arches with a length of 317 meters. It was made out of stone from Jinshan Mountain and is the longest standing bridge of its kind in China. The bridge was included on the list of national monuments (resolution 5-285) in 2001.\n\nThe Tiger Hill is known for its natural environment and historical sites. The hill is so named because it is said to look like a crouching tiger. Another legend states that a white tiger appeared on the hill to guard it following the burial The hill has been a tourist destination for hundreds, if not thousands, of years, as is evident from the poetry and calligraphy carved into rocks on the hill. The Song Dynasty poet, Su Shi said, \"It is a lifelong pity if having visited Suzhou you did not visit Tiger Hill.\"\n\nYunyan Pagoda ( or ), built in 961, is a Chinese pagoda built on Tiger Hill in Suzhou. It has several other names, including the \"Leaning Tower of China\" (as referred to by historian O.G. Ingles) and the Yunyan Temple Tower. The tower rises to a height of 47 m (154 ft). It is a seven-story octagonal building built with blue bricks. In more than a thousand years the tower has gradually slanted due to forces of nature. Now the top and bottom of the tower vary by 2.32 meters. The entire structure weighs some , supported by internal brick columns. However, the tower leans roughly 3 degrees due to the cracking of two supporting columns.\n\nBeisi Pagoda() or North Temple Pagoda is a Chinese pagoda at Bao'en Temple in Suzhou. It rises nine stories in a height of . It is the tallest Chinese pagoda south of the Yangtze river.\n\nTwin Pagodas () lie in the Dinghui Temple Lane in the southeastern corner of the city proper of Suzhou. They are artistic and natural as they are close at hand. One of them is called Clarity-Dispensing Pagoda and the other Beneficence Pagoda and they are in the same form of building. There are many legends about the one-thousand-year-old pagodas. It is charming that the exquisite and straight Twin Pagoda look like two inserted writing brushes. There was originally a single-storey house with three rooms just like a writing brush holder with the shadows of the two pagodas reclining on its roof at sunset. To the east of the pagoda is a square five-storeyed bell building built in the Ming Dynasty which is exactly like a thick ink stick. So there is a saying that \"the Twin Pagodas are as writing brushes while the bell building as ink stick\".\n\nThe city's major museums include the Suzhou Museum (designed by I. M. Pei), Suzhou Silk Museum, and Suzhou Museum of Opera and Theatre.\n\nThe population of Suzhou is predominantly Han Chinese. The official language of broadcast, instruction, etc. is Mandarin Chinese, although many speak a local dialect known as Suzhounese, a member of the Wu language family. In addition to American and European expatriates, there is a large Korean community in Suzhou. The Industrial Bank of Korea (IBK) estimated that there were 15,000 Koreans in the municipality in 2014. That year 850 Korean companies operated in Suzhou, and the Koreans made up the largest number of students at the Suzhou Singapore International School.<br>\n<br>\nSuzhou's economy is based primarily on its large manufacturing sector—China's second largest—including iron and steel, IT and electronic equipment, and textile products. The city's service sector is notably well-developed, primarily owing to tourism, which brought in a total of RMB 152 billion of revenue in 2013. Suzhou's overall GDP exceeded RMB 1.3 trillion in 2013 (up 9.6 percent from the year previous).\n\nThe city is also one of China's foremost destinations for foreign investment, based on its relative proximity to Shanghai and comparatively low operating costs. The municipal government has enacted various measures to encourage FDI in a number of manufacturing (e.g. pharmaceutical, electronic goods, automobile) and service (e.g. banking, logistics, research services) sectors. Included among these measures is a preferential tax policy for limited partnership venture capital enterprises in the Suzhou Industrial Park.\n\nThe Suzhou Industrial Park (SIP) is the largest cooperative project between the Chinese and Singaporean governments. It is beside Jinji Lake, which lies to the east of the Suzhou Old City. On 26 February 1994, Vice Premier Li Lanqing and Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew represented China and Singapore respectively in signing the Agreement to jointly develop Suzhou Industrial Park (originally called the Singapore Industrial Park). The project officially commenced on 12 May in the same year. SIP has a jurisdiction area of , of which, the China-Singapore cooperation area covers with a planned residential population of 1.2 million.\n\nSIP is home to the Suzhou Dushu Lake Science and Education Innovation District, an area of universities and higher education institutions, including Soochow University () and Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University ().\n\nThe Suzhou Industrial Park Export Processing Zone was approved to be established by the government in April 2000, with a planning area of . It is in Suzhou Industrial Park set up by China and Singapore. Inside the Export Processing Zone, all the infrastructures are of high standard.\n\nThe Suzhou New District was established in 1990. In November 1992, the zone was approved to be the national-level hi-tech industrial zone. By the end of 2007, foreign-invested companies had a registered capital worth of US$13 billion, of which US$6.8 billion was paid in. SND hosts now more than 1,500 foreign companies. Some 40 Fortune 500 companies set up 67 projects in the district.\n\nSuzhou Dongwu currently play in China League Two, the third division of Chinese football. The 13,000 seat Suzhou Industrial Park Sports Arena will be one of the venues for the 2019 FIBA Basketball World Cup.\n\nSuzhou is on the Shanghai-Nanjing corridor which carries three parallel railways. Suzhou Railway Station, near the city center, is among the busiest passenger stations in China. It is served by the Beijing–Shanghai Railway (mostly \"conventional\" trains to points throughout China) and the Shanghai-Nanjing Intercity Railway (high-speed D- and G-series trains providing frequent service primarily between Shanghai and Nanjing). It takes only 25 minutes to reach Shanghai Railway Station on the fastest G-series trains and less than 2 hours to Nanjing.\n\nThe Suzhou North Railway Station, a few kilometers to the north, is on the Beijing–Shanghai High-Speed Railway (opened 2011), served by high-speed trains to Beijing, Qingdao, etc.\n\nOther stations on the Beijing–Shanghai Railway and the Shanghai-Nanjing Intercity Railway serve other points in the same corridor within Suzhou Prefecture-level city, such as Kunshan. In and between Suzhou and South KunShan station, Suzhou Industrial Park Railway Station now also becomes an important station for people visiting and living in the areas.\n\nThe northern part of the city, including such county-level cities as Zhangjiagang, Changshu and Taicang, presently has no rail service. However, plans exist for a cross-river railway from Nantong to the Shanghai metropolitan area (the Shanghai–Nantong Railway), which will run through most of these county-level cities. Construction work is expected to start in 2013 and to take five and a half years.\n\nThe Nanjing-Shanghai Expressway connects Suzhou with Shanghai, alternatively, there is the Yangtze Riverine Expressway and the Suzhou-Jiaxing-Hangzhou Expressway. In 2005, the Suzhou Outer Ring was completed, linking the peripheral county-level cities of Taicang, Kunshan, and Changshu. China National Highway 312 also passes through Suzhou.\n\nSuzhou is served by three airports, Sunan Shuofang International Airport (co-owned by Wuxi and Suzhou), Shanghai Hongqiao International Airport ( one hour drive ), Shanghai Pudong International Airport ( two hours drive ).\n\nPort of Suzhou, on the right bank of Yangtze River, dealt with 428 million tons of cargo and 5.86 million TEU containers in 2012, which made it the busiest inland river port in the world by annual cargo tonnage and container volume.\n\nThe Suzhou Rail Transit currently has three lines in operation and two other lines under construction. The masterplan consists of nine independent lines. Line 1 started operation on April 28, 2012, Line 2 started operation on December 28, 2013, and Line 4 started operation in 2017.\n\nSuzhou Tram system has one route in the Suzhou New District.\n\nSuzhou has public bus routes that run into all parts of the city. Fares are flat rated, usually 1 Yuan for a non-air-conditioned bus and 2 Yuan for an air-conditioned one. The Suzhou BRT, a bus rapid transit system opened in 2008, operates 5 lines using elevated busways and bus-only lanes throughout the city.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42415844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42415844", "title": "Tharrawaddy Min Bell", "text": "Tharrawaddy Min Bell\n\nThe Tharrawaddy Min Bell (), also known as the Maha Tissada Gandha Bell, is a large bell located at the Shwedagon Pagoda in Yangon, Myanmar (Burma). It was donated in 1841 by King Tharrawaddy, of Konbaung Dynasty. The official Pali name of the bell is Maha Tissada Gandha, which means \"Great Three-toned Sweet Sound\".\n\nOn 24 September 1841 (10th waxing of Thadingyut 1203 ME), King Tharrawaddy commissioned a 42-ton bell called the Maha Tissada Gandha (\"great three-toned sweet sound\") Bell and 20 kilograms (44 lbs) of gold plating to the Shwedagon Pagoda in Yangon. The king appointed two ministers Maha Sithu and Maha Min Kyaw Thinkhaya to oversee the casting project, which began on 20 January 1842 (10th waxing of Tabodwe 1203 ME).\n\nThe bell is housed in a pavilion, located on the northeast side of the pagoda's middle terrace.\n\n"}
{"id": "10208043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10208043", "title": "The Art of Grammar", "text": "The Art of Grammar\n\nThe Art of Grammar ( or (romanized) Téchnē Grammatikḗ) is a treatise on Greek grammar, attributed to Dionysius Thrax, who wrote in the 2nd century BC. It is the first work on grammar in Greek, and also the first concerning a Western language; it sought mainly to help speakers of Koine Greek understand the language of Homer and other great poets of the past.\n\nIt was translated into Armenian and Syriac in the early centuries AD.\n\n"}
{"id": "37648896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37648896", "title": "Thomas Allen &amp; Son Limited", "text": "Thomas Allen &amp; Son Limited\n\nThomas Allen & Son Limited is a Canadian book distributor, in continuous operation for over 90 years. They have published award-winning books like \"\" by Russell Wangersky. Its publishing arm, Thomas Allen Publishers, was sold to Dundurn Press in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "11728421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11728421", "title": "Urmonotheismus", "text": "Urmonotheismus\n\nUrmonotheismus (German for \"primeval monotheism\") or primitive monotheism is the hypothesis of a monotheistic \"Urreligion\", from which non-monotheistic religions degenerated. This is diametrically opposed to the evolutionary view of religion, another hypothesis which holds that religion progressed from simple forms to complex: first preanimism, then animism, totemism, polytheism and finally monotheism (see Anthropology of religion).\n\nScottish anthropologist Andrew Lang concluded in 1898 that the idea of a high god or \"All Father\" existed among some of the simplest of contemporary tribes prior to Western contact.\n\nUrmonotheism was first defended by Wilhelm Schmidt (1868–1954), in his \"Der Ursprung der Gottesidee\" appearing from 1912, opposing the \"Revolutionary Monotheism\" approach that traces the emergence of monotheistic thought as a gradual process spanning the Bronze and Iron Age Religions of the Ancient Near East and Classical Antiquity.\n\nAlleged traces of primitive monotheism were located in the deities Assyrian Ashur and Marduk, and Hebrew YHWH. Monotheism in Schmidt's view is the \"natural\" form of theism, which was later overlaid and \"degraded\" by polytheism.\n\nSchmidt's hypothesis was controversially discussed during much of the first half of the 20th century. In the 1930s, Schmidt adduced evidence from Native American mythology, Australian aborigines and other primitive civilizations in support of his views. He also responded to his critics. For instance, he rejected Rafael Pettazzoni's claim that the sky gods were merely a dim personification or embodiment of the physical sky, writing in \"The Origin and Growth of Religion\": \"The outlines of the Supreme Being become dim only among later peoples\". He adds that \"a being who lives in the sky, who stands behind the celestial phenomena, who must 'centralize' in himself the various manifestations [of thunder, rain, etc.] is not a personification of the sky at all\". According to Ernest Brandewie in \"Wilhelm Schmidt and the Origin of the Idea of God\", Schmidt also claims that Pettazzoni fails to study Schmidt's work seriously and often relies on incorrect translations of Schmidt's German. Brandewie also says Pettazzoni's definition of primitive ethical monotheism is an \"arbitrary\" straw-man argument, but he says Schmidt went too far when he claimed that such ethical monotheism was the earliest religious idea.\n\nBy the 1950s the academic establishment had rejected the hypothesis of primitive ethical monotheism, so the proponents of Schmidt's \"Vienna school\" rephrased his ideas to the effect that while ancient cultures may not have known \"true monotheism\", they at least show evidence for \"original theism\" (\"Ur-Theismus\", as opposed to non-theistic animism), with a concept of \"Hochgott\" (\"High God\", as opposed to \"Eingott\" \"Single God\"). Christian apologetics in the light of this have moved away from postulating a \"memory of revelation\" in pre-Christian religions, replacing it with an \"inkling of redemption\" or virtuous paganism unconsciously anticipating monotheism. That said, E. E. Evans-Pritchard noted in \"Theories of Primitive Religion\", first published in 1962, that most anthropologists have abandoned all evolutionary schemes like Schmidt and Pettazzoni's for the historical development of religion, adding that they have also found monotheistic beliefs existing side-by-side with other religious beliefs.\n\n"}
{"id": "41679280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41679280", "title": "Wardak Vase", "text": "Wardak Vase\n\nThe Wardak Vase is the name of an ancient globular-shaped buddhist copper vase that was found as part of a stupa relic deposit in the early nineteenth century near Chaki Wardak in Wardak Province, Afghanistan. The importance of the vase lies in the long Kharoshthi inscription, which claims that the stupa contained the relics of the Buddha. Since 1880, the vase has been part of the British Museum's Asian collection.\n\nThe vase, coins and other relics were found by the British adventurer and spy Charles Masson in 1836. Mason unearthed the vase in one of the stupas near the town of Wardak. The finds were sent to London in 1839, where they became part of the Indian Museum's collection. In 1880, they were transferred to the British Museum.\n\nThe Wardak Vase is spherical in shape and made of copper alloy. The vase has a slim neck with an inverted rim and a low flat base. It has a series of three parallel grooves running around the middle of the vase (with a further two pairs of grooves above and below). Engraved between the upper and middle grooves are four lines of Kharoshthi script that dates the vase and deposit to the year 178 AD. With the vase were found a number of beads and sixty-six coins of the Kushan Kings Vima Kadphises, Kanishka I and Huvishka.\n\nThe long inscription refers to the Kushan year 51 in the reign of Kanishka I who reigned between AD 110 and 120, but also refers to one of his successors Huvishka, who ruled between AD 146 and 83; it thus provides useful evidence for reconstructing the chronological reigns of Kushan royalty at the time. The inscription also indicates that the monastery was built by the Mahasanghikas, one of the earliest buddhist schools in India, who were based at Mathura, near Delhi. The vase therefore provides strong evidence for the widespread distribution of Buddhism in South Asia almost 2000 years ago.\n\nA translation of the inscription is described below:\n\n\"In the 51st year, in the month Artemisios, after 15 (days), at this time Vag̱amareg̱a, son of Kamagulya; he has made his abode here in Khavada (and) establishes in the Vag̱amareg̱a monastery in a stūpa a relic of the Lord, the Śākya sage.\"\n\n"}
