{"id": "798332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=798332", "title": "Arabic phonology", "text": "Arabic phonology\n\nWhile many languages have numerous dialects that differ in phonology, the contemporary spoken Arabic language is more properly described as a continuum of varieties. This article deals primarily with Modern Standard Arabic (MSA), which is the standard variety shared by educated speakers throughout Arabic-speaking regions. MSA is used in writing in formal print media and orally in newscasts, speeches and formal declarations of numerous types.\n\nModern Standard Arabic has 28 consonant phonemes and 6 vowel phonemes (8 vowels in most modern dialects). All phonemes contrast between \"emphatic\" (uvularized) consonants and non-emphatic ones. Some of these phonemes have coalesced in the various modern dialects, while new phonemes have been introduced through borrowing or phonemic splits. A \"phonemic quality of length\" applies to consonants as well as vowels.\n\nModern Standard Arabic has six vowel phonemes forming three pairs of corresponding short and long vowels (). Many spoken varieties also include and . Modern Standard Arabic has two diphthongs (formed by a combination of short with the semivowels and ) in Classical Arabic with no allophones. Allophony in different dialects of Arabic can occur, and is partially conditioned by neighboring consonants within the same word. As a general rule, for example, and are:\n\nHowever, the actual rules governing vowel-retraction are a good deal more complex, and have relatively little in the way of an agreed-upon standard, as there are often competing notions of what constitutes a \"prestige\" form. Often, even highly proficient speakers will import the vowel-retraction rules from their native dialects. Thus, for example, in the Arabic of someone from Cairo emphatic consonants will affect every vowel between word boundaries, whereas certain Saudi speakers exhibit emphasis only on the vowels adjacent to an emphatic consonant. Certain speakers (most notably Levantine speakers) exhibit a degree of asymmetry in leftward vs. rightward spread of vowel-retraction.\n\nThe final heavy syllable of a root is stressed.\n\nHowever, the pronunciation of loanwords is highly dependent on the speaker's native variety.\n\nThe long mid vowels and appear in to be phonemic in most varieties of Arabic, and they can be used in Modern Standard Arabic in some stable loanwords or foreign names, e.g. ('Coca-Cola'), ('chocolate'), or ('doctor'), ('John'), ('Tom'), ('Belgium'), or ('secretary'), etc. Foreign words often have a liberal sprinkling of long vowels, as their word shapes do not conform to standardized prescriptive pronunciations written by letters for short vowels. When in need the letters or are always used to render the long vowels and .\n\nEven in the most formal of conventions, pronunciation depends upon a speaker's background. Nevertheless, the number and phonetic character of most of the 28 consonants has a broad degree of regularity among Arabic-speaking regions. Note that Arabic is particularly rich in uvular, pharyngeal, and pharyngealized (\"emphatic\") sounds. The emphatic coronals (, , , and ) cause assimilation of emphasis to adjacent non-emphatic coronal consonants. The phonemes ⟨پ⟩ and ⟨ڤ⟩ (not used by all speakers) are not considered to be part of the phonemic inventory, as they exist only in foreign words and they can be pronounced as ⟨ب⟩ and ⟨ف⟩ respectively depending on the speaker.. The standard pronunciation of ⟨ج⟩ varies regionally, most prominently in the Arabian Peninsula, parts of the Levant, Iraq, northern Algeria and Sudan, it is also considered as the predominant pronunciation of Literary Arabic outside the Arab world, in most of Northwest Africa and the Levant, and only in Egypt.\n\nLong (geminate or double) consonants are pronounced exactly like short consonants, but last longer. In Arabic, they are called \"mushaddadah\" (\"strengthened\", marked with a shaddah), but they are not actually pronounced any \"stronger\". Between a long consonant and a pause, an epenthetic occurs, but this is only common across regions in West Asia.\n\nArabic syllable structure can be summarized as follows, in which parentheses enclose optional components:\n\nArabic syllable structure consists of an optional syllable onset, consisting of one or two consonants; an obligatory syllable nucleus, consisting of a vowel optionally preceded by and/or followed by a semivowel; and an optional syllable coda, consisting of one or two consonants. The following restrictions apply:\n\n\nThe placement of word stress in Arabic varies considerably from one dialect to another, and has been the focus of extensive research and debate.\n\nIn determining stress, Arabic distinguishes three types of syllables:\n\n\nThe word stress of Classical Arabic has been the subject of debate. However, there is consensus as to the general rule, even though there are some exceptions. A simple rule of thumb is that word-stress falls on the penultimate syllable of a word if that syllable is closed, and otherwise on the antepenultimate.\n\nA more precise description is J. C. E. Watson's. Here the stressed syllable follows the marker ' and variant rules are in brackets:\n\n\nModern Arabic dialects all maintain rules (1) and (2). But if there is neither a final superheavy syllable nor a heavy penultimate syllable, their behaviour varies. Thus in Palestinian, rule (3) is instead 'otherwise stress the first syllable (up to the antepenult): ‘he wrote’, ‘man’', whereas the basic rules of Cairene (to which there are exceptions) are:\n\n\nSpoken varieties differ from Classical Arabic and Modern Standard Arabic not only in grammar but also in pronunciation. Outside of the Arabian peninsula, a major linguistic division is between \"sedentary\" varieties, largely urban varieties. Inside the Arabian peninsula and in Iraq, the two types are less distinct; but the language of the urbanized Hijaz, at least, strongly looks like a conservative sedentary variety.\n\nSome examples of variation:\n\n\nIn Modern Standard Arabic is used as a marginal phoneme to pronounce some dialectal and loan words.\nOn the other hand it is considered a native phoneme or allophone in most modern Arabic dialects, mostly as a variant of (as in Arabian Peninsula and Northwest African dialects) or as a variant of (as in Egyptian and a number of Yemeni and Omani dialects). It is also considered a separate foreign phoneme that appears only in loanwords, as in most urban Levantine dialects where is and is .\n\nThe phoneme represented by the Arabic letter \"\" () has many standard pronunciations: in most of the Arabian Peninsula and as the predominant pronunciation of Literary Arabic outside the Arab world, in most of Egypt and some regions in southern Yemen and southwestern Oman. This is also a characteristic of colloquial Egyptian and southern Yemeni dialects. In Morocco and western Algeria, it is pronounced as in some words, especially colloquially. In most north Africa and most of the Levant, the standard is pronounced , and in certain regions of the Persian Gulf colloquially with . In some Sudanese and Yemeni dialects, it may be either or as it used to be in Classical Arabic.\n\nOther Variations include:\n\n\n\nThe main dialectal variations in Arabic consonants revolve around the six consonants; , , , , and :\n\nThe Arabic of Cairo (often called \"Egyptian Arabic\" or more correctly \"Cairene Arabic\") is a typical sedentary variety and a de facto standard variety among certain segments of the Arabic-speaking population, due to the dominance of Egyptian media. Watson adds emphatic labials and and emphatic to Cairene Arabic with marginal phonemic status. Cairene has also merged the interdental consonants with the dental plosives (e.g. → , 'three') except in loanwords from Classical Arabic where they are nativized as sibilant fricatives (e.g. → , 'secondary school'). Cairene speakers pronounce as and debuccalized to (again, loanwords from Classical Arabic have reintroduced the earlier sound or approximated to with the front vowel around it changed to the back vowel ). Classical Arabic diphthongs and became realized as and respectively. Still, Egyptian Arabic sometimes has minimal pairs like ('carrying' f.s.) vs ('burden'). 'pocket' + 'our' → collapsing with which means ('cheese' or 'our pocket'), because Cairene phonology can't have long vowels before two consonants. Cairene also has as a marginal phoneme from loanwords from languages other than Classical Arabic.\n\nVarieties such as that of Sanaa, Yemen, are more conservative and retain most phonemic contrasts of Classical Arabic. Sanaani possesses as a reflex of Classical (which still functions as an emphatic consonant). In unstressed syllables, Sanaani short vowels may be reduced to . is voiced to in initial and intervocalic positions.\n\nOf all the mainstream varieties of Arabic, Moroccan Arabic is likely the one that has diverged the most from Classical Arabic, similarly to the position of French in the Romance languages and English among the Germanic languages. As described above, Moroccan has heavily innovated in its vowel phonology, under heavy Berber influence. Short vowels and merged into . More recently, most instances of short have also merged into ; the few that remain are mostly in the vicinity of velars and uvulars, which suggests an alternative analysis with phonemically rounded consonants (e.g. labiovelars) and only one short vowel . This schwa, in turn, is phonemically deleted in all contexts except directly followed by a single word-final consonant or in some three-consonant words of the shape \"CəCC\". This inevitably results in some very long, complex consonant clusters, which (unlike most other Arabic varieties) Moroccan Arabic is remarkably tolerant of, only tending to insert epenthetic schwas to break up the clusters at a slow rate of speech. Unlike in other varieties, doubled consonants are never reduced, but are pronounced clearly whether occurring at the beginning of a word, end of a word, between vowels or before or after a consonant. With the collapse of short vowels, speakers no longer perceive a long vs. short distinction in vowels, which has been replaced with a \"full\" vs. \"reduced/unstable\" distinction. \"Full\" vowels (actually pronounced half-long) substitute for both the long and short vowels of Classical Arabic in borrowings; as a result, these borrowings can be immediately identified by their phonology.\n\nA number of other unique or unusual developments have taken place. Stress is, for the most part, not detectable at all; to the extent stressed syllables can be identified, there is often no consistent pattern governing which syllable is stressed. Original has split into two phonemes and , reflecting the origin of Moroccan Arabic as a mixture of a sedentary and Bedouin dialect.\nOriginal diphthongs , have merged into full vowels , rather than generating new vowel qualities; but \"long diphthongs\" , also exist, best analyzed as a combination of full vowel and semivowel. Unlike most other varieties, emphasis not only triggers front/back allophones in , but also high/low allophones in and , and varies between non-emphatic , emphatic , and pharyngeal-environment . On the other hand, emphasis spreads only as far as the first full vowel in either direction, unlike in most sedentary varieties where emphasis can spread much more widely, sometimes throughout the entire word. For the purposes of emphasis, splits completely into non-emphatic and emphatic , distinguishable mostly by their effects on adjacent vowels; with very few exceptions, the choice of one or another is consistent across all words derived from a given root. Most emphatic/nonemphatic pairs behave similarly, but is affricated while is non-affricated , so it is always possible to distinguish the two without recourse to their effects on surrounding vowels.\n\nThe most frequent consonant phoneme is , the rarest is . The frequency distribution of the 28 consonant phonemes, based on the 2,967 triliteral roots listed by Wehr is (with the percentage of roots in which each phoneme occurs):\n\nThis distribution does not necessarily reflect the actual frequency of occurrence of the phonemes in speech, since pronouns, prepositions and suffixes are not taken into account, and the roots themselves will occur with varying frequency. In particular, occurs in several extremely common affixes (occurring in the marker for second-person or feminine third-person as a prefix, the marker for first-person or feminine third-person as a suffix, and as the second element of Forms VIII and X as an infix) despite being fifth from last on Wehr's list. The list does give, however, an idea of which phonemes are more marginal than others. Note that the five least frequent letters are among the six letters added to those inherited from the Phoenician alphabet, namely, , , , , and .\n\nThe Literary Arabic sample text is a reading of The North Wind and the Sun by a speaker who was born in Safed, lived and was educated in Beirut from age 8 to 15, subsequently studied and taught in Damascus, studied phonetics in Scotland and since then has resided in Scotland and Kuwait.\n\n"}
{"id": "631150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=631150", "title": "Art department", "text": "Art department\n\nArt department in filmmaking terms means the section of a production's crew concerned with visual artistry. Working under the supervision of the production designer and/or art director, the art department is responsible for arranging the overall \"look\" of the film (i.e. modern/high-tech, rustic, Victorian, etc.) as desired by the film director. Individual positions within this department include: production designer, art director, assistant art director, storyboard artist, concept artist, draftsman, art department coordinator, set decorator, set dresser, makeup artist, painter, property master, leadman, swing gang, production buyer, Film sculptor, and property assistant.\n\n"}
{"id": "52447148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52447148", "title": "Ashokpuri Goswami", "text": "Ashokpuri Goswami\n\nAshokpuri Goswami () is a Gujarati poet and writer from Gujarat, India. He won Sahitya Akademi Award for Gujarati language in 1997 for his novel \"Koovo\" (1994).\n\nHe was born on 17 August 1947 in Borsad, Anand district, Gujarat to Kailasbharati and Kamlabahen. His family belonged to Ashi village near Petlad. He completed his primary and secondary education in Navli, Anand. He completed old S.S.C. from B. M. Patel High School, Navli. He completed B.Sc. from V. P. College, Sardar Patel University but dropped out due to poor financial condition. He started working as a farmer at his village. He married Ansooyaji on 21 April 1965. Their son Ayushyaman was born on 16 July 1998.\n\nHe wrote his first poem while studying S.S.C. His ghazals were first published in \"Kavilok\", and later he published in other Gujarati literary magazines including \"Kumar\", \"Shabdasrishti\", \"Vi\" and \"Navneet Samarpan\".\n\n\"Arthat\" (1990) and \"Kaling\" (2005) are his collections of ghazals. \"Mool\", his first novel was published in 1990, followed by \"Koovo\" (1994), \"Nibhado\" (1995), \"Vedh\" (1999) \"Ame\" (2015) and \"Gajra\". \"Ravarvaat\" (1994) is an autobiographical his work. He has edited story collection, \"Vinela Moti\" (1995). He has edited \"Setu\" (2003), a literary magazine published for non-resident Indians, and \"Rooplabdhi\" (2005) published by Charotar Vidya Mandal on occasion of session held by Gujarati Sahitya Parishad. He has also translated Dilip Ramesh's Hindi play, \"Khand Khand Agni\".\n\nHe won the Sahitya Akademi Award for Gujarati language in 1997 for his novel \"Koovo\" (1994). He also won Govardhanram Tripathi Award in 1995 and Best Book Prize of Gujarat Sahitya Akademi in 1996 for his novel \"Nibhado\" (1995).\n"}
{"id": "35917158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35917158", "title": "Bati language (Indonesia)", "text": "Bati language (Indonesia)\n\nBati is a language of eastern Seram Island, Indonesia.\n"}
{"id": "29846162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29846162", "title": "Biao language", "text": "Biao language\n\nThe Biao language (; also known as Kang Bau or Kang Beu) is a Kra–Dai language (or perhaps three languages) spoken in southwestern Huaiji County and Fengkai County, Zhaoqing, Guangdong. Autonyms are ' and '.\n\nLike Lakkia, the genetic affiliation of the Biao language within the Kra–Dai family is uncertain, although it could be a sister of the Kam–Sui languages. Hsiu (2014) suggests that Biao could either subgroup with Lakkia, or form an independent branch of Kra–Dai on its own.\n\nThere are three dialects of Biao (Hsiu 2014). The Shidong dialect is documented in detail by Liang (2002). Additional data from the Yonggu and Dagang dialects are documented by Hsiu (2014).\n\nVariants of Biao include the Shidong 诗洞, Yonggu 永固, Qiaotou 桥头, and Dagang 大岗 dialects (Liang 2002:3). In Fengkai County, it is spoken in Chang'an 长安, Jinzhuang 金装, and Qixing 七星. The \"Fengshan County Almanac\" (1998) reports that in Fengkai County, (\"piau42\") is spoken by 7,217 people in 48 natural villages in Chang'an 长安, Baoshan 宝山, and Dongshan 东山 townships. Fengkai Biao is reported by the \"Fengshan County Almanac\" (1998) to be a distinct dialect from Biao of Huaiji County. Yang (2011) reports that Biao is also spoken in Liandu 莲都 and He'erkou 河儿口镇 in Fengkai County, and Shatian 沙田镇, Hezhou, Guangxi.\n\nAccording to Yang Biwan (2010), there are more than 160,000 speakers of Biao.\n\n"}
{"id": "33598603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33598603", "title": "Boma language", "text": "Boma language\n\nBoma is a Bantu language of the Democratic Republic of Congo.\n\nMaho (2009) considers Boma, B.821 Mpe (Kempee), and B.822 Nunu to be closely related languages. Mpe and Nunu do not have ISO codes. (Distinguish the Nunu dialect of Ngiri.)\n\n"}
{"id": "42046483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42046483", "title": "Buddhisagarsuri", "text": "Buddhisagarsuri\n\nBuddhisagarsuri (1874–1925) was a Jain ascetic, philosopher and author of the early 20th century.\n\nBuddhisagarsuri was born as Bechardas Patel in Hindu family of Shivabhai and Ambaben in 1874 at Vijapur in north Gujarat. He studied up to sixth standard. He met Muni Ravisagar, a Jain monk, and became his disciple. He studied at Yashovijay Sanskrit Pathshala in Mehsana, a school for religious studies. He took job of religious teacher in Ajol near Mehsana. Upon death of Ravisagar in 1898, his spiritual quest intensified. Ravisagar's disciple, Sukhsagar initiated him as a Jain monk in 1901. He was given a new name, Muni Buddhisagar. He was conferred with informal title of \"Yog-nishtha\", firm in Yoga. He was elevated to title of \"Acharya\" in 1914 in Mansa. He established Mahudi Jain temple in 1917. He was invited by royals of Baroda, Idar, Pethapur to preach there. He died at Vijapur in 1925. Vijapur Jain Temple and memorial shrine were built where Buddhisagar suri was later cremated.\n\nHe wrote more than hundred books. His first book was \"Jain Dharma Khristi Dharma no Mukablo\", a comparison between Jainism and Christianity. He criticised Christianity and its missionary activities in Gujarat.\n\nHe was involved in debates regarding icon worship during those time. He defended it and authored a booklet \"Jain Sutro ma Murtipuja\" (Icon Worship in Jain Scriptures). He termed icons as a form of love and devotion.\n\n"}
{"id": "2519228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2519228", "title": "Catastrophic kill", "text": "Catastrophic kill\n\nA catastrophic kill, K-Kill or complete kill is damage inflicted on an armored vehicle that amounts to complete destruction of the vehicle, rendering it both permanently non-functional and irreparable.\n\nThe term \"knocked out\" refers to a vehicle which has been damaged to the point of inoperability and abandoned by its crew, but is not obviously beyond the point of repair. While a knocked-out vehicle may be later determined to be irreparable and written off, a K-kill is more obvious and usually involves the destruction of the vehicle by fire and/or explosion. Among tank crewmen it is also commonly known as a \"brew up\", coined from the British World War II term for lighting a fire in order to brew tea. The expression arose because British troops used an old petrol tin with holes punched in the side as a makeshift stove on which to brew their tea. The flames licking out of the holes in the side of the tin resembled a burning tank and thus the expression was coined. \n\nTypically a catastrophic kill results in the ignition of any fuel the vehicle may be carrying as well as the detonation (cooking off, or sympathetic detonation) of its ammunition. A catastrophic kill does not necessarily preclude the survival of the vehicle's crew, although most historical casualties in armored warfare were the result of K-kills. \n\nThis type of kill is also associated with the jack-in-the-box effect, where a tank's turret is blown skyward due to the overpressure of an ammunition explosion. Some tank designs employ blow-off panels, channeling such explosions outside of the vehicle, turning an otherwise catastrophic kill into a firepower kill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29535737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29535737", "title": "Centro de hoja", "text": "Centro de hoja\n\nCentro de hoja or Center of the sheet is a kind of Cuban postage stamps where there are intersecting gutters between four panes of stamps. The horizontal and vertical blank gutters divide the sheet into quadrants of 25 stamps each. The center four or sixteen stamps on a sheet of 100 stamps are collected similar to how plate blocks of four stamps are collected in the United States. The first \"centro de hoja\" were the imperforate Cuban patriots issues of 1926. These had the unique distinctions of being from sheets of 400 rather than 100 and the \"gutters\" consisted of nothing more than two intersecting lines drawn through the center of the sheet. The last was produced with the three bicentennial of coffee issues of 1952. Some people classify the Christmas issues of 1960 as centros de hoja, but since they have no gutters others call them \"special format\" stamps.\n\nA bit over half of the regular issues, special delivery and airmail stamps issued between the years 1926 and 1952 were produced with intersecting gutters, giving rise to the collection of \"centros de hoja\". Some issues can be quite rare. There were only 200 imperforate sheets issued in 1936 for each of the fourteen stamps issued to celebrate the opening of the free port of Matanzas. Some of the \"writers and artists\" series of 1937 sold fewer that 180 sheets. There were only 250 sheets printed of the one peso \"death of Maceo\" stamp in 1948 and the one peso Fernando Figueredo overprint of 1952. Other issues can be plentiful and readily available to collectors.\n\n"}
{"id": "11370948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11370948", "title": "Clardeluna", "text": "Clardeluna\n\nClardeluna was an Occitan poet, playwright and journalist Joana Barthes's nom de plume. She was born in 1898 in Casa d'Arnas in Hérault, France and died in 1972. She ran the \"Trencavel\" magazine. \"Clar de luna\" translates as \"moonlight\" in English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "947692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=947692", "title": "Dredging", "text": "Dredging\n\nDredging is the operation of removing material from one part of the water environment and relocating it to another. In all but a few situations the excavation is undertaken by specialist floating plant, known as a dredger. Dredging is carried out in many different locations and for many different purposes, but the main objectives are usually to recover material that has some value or use, or to create a greater depth of water.\n\nDredging is the form of excavation carried out underwater or partially underwater, in shallow waters or ocean waters. It keeps waterways and ports navigable, and assists coastal protection, land reclamation and coastal redevelopment, by gathering up bottom sediments and transporting it elsewhere. Dredging can be done to recover materials of commercial value; these may be high value minerals or sediments such as sand and gravel that are used by the construction industry.\n\nDredging is a four-part process: loosening the material, bringing the material to the surface (together extraction), transportation and disposal.\nThe material can be brought to the surface by suction or mechanical means.\n\nThe extract can be disposed of locally or transported by barge or in a liquid suspension in kilometre long pipelines. Disposal can be to infill sites, or the material can be used constuctively to replenish eroded sand that has been lost to coastal erosion, or constructively create sea-walls, building land or whole new landforms such as viable islands in coral atolls.\n\nAncient authors refer to habour dredging. The seven arms of the Nile were channelled and wharfs built at the time of the pyramids (4000 BC), there was extensive harbour building in the eastern Mediterranean from 1000 BC and the disturbed sediment layers gives evidence of dredging. At Marseille, dredging phases are recorded from the third century BC onwards, the most extensive during the first century AD. The remains of three dredging boats have been unearthed; they were abandoned at the bottom of the harbour during the first and second centuries AD.\n\nDredging machines were used during the construction of the Suez Canal.\n\nDuring the renaissance da Vinci drew a design for a drag dredger.\n\nThese operate by sucking through a long tube, like some vacuum cleaners but on a larger scale.\n\nA plain suction dredger has no tool at the end of the suction pipe to disturb the material. This is often the most commonly used form of dredging.\n\nA trailing suction hopper dredger (TSHD) trails its suction pipe when working. The pipe, which is fitted with a dredge drag head, loads the dredge spoil into one or more hoppers in the vessel.\nWhen the hoppers are full, the TSHD sails to a disposal area and either dumps the material through doors in the hull or pumps the material out of the hoppers. Some dredges also self-offload using drag buckets and conveyors.\n\nThe largest trailing suction hopper dredgers in the world are currently Jan De Nul's \"Cristobal Colon\" (launched 4 July 2008) and her sister ship \"Leiv Eriksson\" (launched 4 September 2009). Main design specs for the \"Cristobal Colon\" and the \" Leiv Eriksson\" are: 46,000 cubic metre hopper and a design dredging depth of 155 m. Next largest is \"HAM 318\" (Van Oord) with its 37,293 cubic metre hopper and a maximum dredging depth of 101 m.\nA cutter-suction dredger's (CSD) suction tube has a cutting mechanism at the suction inlet. The cutting mechanism loosens the bed material and transports it to the suction mouth. The dredged material is usually sucked up by a wear-resistant centrifugal pump and discharged either through a pipe line or to a barge. Cutter-suction dredgers are most often used in geological areas consisting of hard surface materials (for example gravel deposits or surface bedrock) where a standard suction dredger would be ineffective. They can, if sufficiently powerful, be used instead of underwater blasting.\n\nAs of 2018, the most powerful cutter-suction dredger in the world is \"Spartacus\", which is scheduled to enter service in 2019.\n\nThe auger dredge system functions like a cutter suction dredger, but the cutting tool is a rotating Archimedean screw set at right angles to the suction pipe. The first widely used auger dredges were designed in the 1980s. In 1996, IMS Dredges introduced a self-propelled version operates without anchors or cables. They were primarily used for sludge removal applications from waste water treatment plants; since then they have been used river maintenance and sand mining.\n\nThe turbidity shroud on auger dredge systems creates a strong suction vacuum, causing much less turbidity than conical (basket) type cutterheads and so they are preferred for environmental applications. This and the ability to convey material to the pump faster makes auger dredge systems more productive than similar sized conical (basket) type cutterhead dredges.\n\nThese use the Venturi effect of a concentrated high-speed stream of water to pull the nearby water, together with bed material, into a pipe.\n\nAn airlift is a type of small suction dredge. It is sometimes used like other dredges. At other times, an airlift is handheld underwater by a diver. It works by blowing air into the pipe, and that air, being lighter than water, rises inside the pipe, dragging water with it.\n\nSome bucket dredgers and grab dredgers are powerful enough to rip out coral to make a shipping channel through coral reefs.\nA bucket dredger is equipped with a bucket dredge, which is a device that picks up sediment by mechanical means, often with many circulating buckets attached to a wheel or chain.\n\nA grab dredger picks up seabed material with a clam shell bucket, which hangs from an onboard crane or a crane barge, or is carried by a hydraulic arm, or is mounted like on a dragline. This technique is often used in excavation of bay mud. Most of these dredges are crane barges with spuds, steel piles that can be lowered and raised to position the dredge.\n\nA backhoe/dipper dredger has a backhoe like on some excavators. A crude but usable backhoe dredger can be made by mounting a land-type backhoe excavator on a pontoon. The six largest backhoe dredgers in the world are currently the Vitruvius, the Mimar Sinan, Postnik Jakovlev (Jan De Nul), the Samson (DEME), the Simson and the Goliath (Van Oord). They featured barge-mounted excavators. Small backhoe dredgers can be track-mounted and work from the bank of ditches. A backhoe dredger is equipped with a half-open shell. The shell is filled moving towards the machine. Usually dredged material is loaded in barges. This machine is mainly used in harbours and other shallow water.\n This is a bar or blade which is pulled over the seabed behind any suitable ship or boat. It has an effect similar to that of a bulldozer on land. The chain-operated steam dredger \"Bertha\", built in 1844 to a design by Brunel and now the oldest operational steam vessel in Britain, was of this type.\nThis is an early type of dredger which was formerly used in shallow water in the Netherlands. It was a flat-bottomed boat with spikes sticking out of its bottom. As tide current pulled the boat, the spikes scraped seabed material loose, and the tide current washed the material away, hopefully to deeper water. \"Krabbelaar\" is the Dutch word for \"scratcher\".\n\nA water injection dredger uses a small jet to inject water under low pressure (to prevent the sediment from exploding into the surrounding waters) into the seabed to bring the sediment in suspension, which then becomes a turbidity current, which flows away down slope, is moved by a second burst of water from the WID or is carried away in natural currents. Water injection results in a lot of sediment in the water which makes measurement with most hydrographic equipment (for instance: singlebeam echosounders) difficult.\n\nThese dredgers use a chamber with inlets, out of which the water is pumped with the inlets closed. It is usually suspended from a crane on land or from a small pontoon or barge. Its effectiveness depends on depth pressure.\nA snagboat is designed to remove big debris such as dead trees and parts of trees from North America waterways.\n\nSome of these are any of the above types of dredger, which can operate normally, or by extending legs, also known as spuds, so it stands on the seabed with its hull out of the water. Some forms can go on land.\n\nSome of these are land-type backhoe excavators whose wheels are on long hinged legs so it can drive into shallow water and keep its cab out of water. Some of these may not have a floatable hull and, if so, cannot work in deep water.\nOliver Evans (1755–1819) in 1804 invented the Oruktor Amphibolos, an amphibious dredger which was America's first steam-powered road vehicle. \n\nThese are usually used to recover useful materials from the seabed. Many of them travel on continuous track. A unique variant is intended to walk on legs on the seabed.\n\nFishing dredges are used to collect various species of clams, scallops, oysters or crabs from the seabed. These dredges have the form of a scoop made of chain mesh, and are towed by a fishing boat. Careless dredging can be destructive to the seabed. Nowadays some scallop dredging is replaced by collecting via scuba diving.\n\nAs of June 2018, the largest dredger in Asia is \"MV Tian Kun Hao\", a 140 metres long dredger constructed in China, with a capacity of 6,000 cubic meters per hour.\n\nDredgers are often equipped with dredge monitoring software to help the dredge operator position the dredger and monitor the current dredge level. The monitoring software often uses Real Time Kinematic satellite navigation to accurately record where the machine has been operating and to what depth the machine has dredged to.\n\nIn a \"hopper dredger\", the dredged materials end up in a large onboard hold called a \"hopper.\" A suction hopper dredger is usually used for maintenance dredging. A hopper dredge usually has doors in its bottom to empty the dredged materials, but some dredges empty their hoppers by splitting the two halves of their hulls on giant hydraulic hinges. Either way, as the vessel dredges, excess water in the dredged materials is spilled off as the heavier solids settle to the bottom of the hopper. This excess water is returned to the sea to reduce weight and increase the amount of solid material (or slurry) that can be carried in one load. When the hopper is filled with slurry, the dredger stops dredging and goes to a dump site and empties its hopper.\n\nSome hopper dredges are designed so they can also be emptied from above using pumps if dump sites are unavailable or if the dredge material is contaminated. Sometimes the slurry of dredgings and water is pumped straight into pipes which deposit it on nearby land. Other times, it is pumped into barges (also called scows), which deposit it elsewhere while the dredge continues its work.\n\nA number of vessels, notably in the UK and NW Europe de-water the hopper to dry the cargo to enable it to be discharged onto a quayside 'dry'. This is achieved principally using self discharge bucket wheel, drag scraper or excavator via conveyor systems.\n\nWhen contaminated (toxic) sediments are to be removed, or large volume inland disposal sites are unavailable, dredge slurries are reduced to dry solids via a process known as dewatering. Current dewatering techniques employ either centrifuges, Geotube containers, large textile based filters or polymer flocculant/congealant based apparatus.\n\nIn many projects, slurry dewatering is performed in large inland settling pits, although this is becoming less and less common as mechanical dewatering techniques continue to improve.\n\nSimilarly, many groups (most notable in east Asia) are performing research towards utilizing dewatered sediments for the production of concretes and construction block, although the high organic content (in many cases) of this material is a hindrance toward such ends.\n\nThe proper management of contaminated sediments is a modern-day issue of significant concern. Because of a variety of maintenance activities, thousands of tonnes of contaminated sediment are dredged worldwide from commercial ports and other aquatic areas at high level of industrialization. Dredged material can be reused after appropriate decontamination. A variety of processes has been proposed and tested at different scales of application (technologies for environmental remediation). Once decontaminated, the material could well suit the building industry, or could be used for beach nourishment.\n\nDredging can create disturbance to aquatic ecosystems, often with adverse impacts. In addition, dredge spoils may contain toxic chemicals that may have an adverse effect on the disposal area; furthermore, the process of dredging often dislodges chemicals residing in benthic substrates and injects them into the water column.\n\nThe activity of dredging can create the following principal impacts to the environment:\n\nThe nature of dredging operations and possible environmental impacts cause the industry to be closely regulated and a requirement for comprehensive regional environmental impact assessments with continuous monitoring. The U.S. Clean Water Act requires that any discharge of dredged or fill materials into \"waters of the United States,\" including wetlands, is forbidden unless authorized by a permit issued by the Army Corps of Engineers. As a result of the potential impacts to the environment, dredging is restricted to licensed areas only with vessel activity monitored closely using automatic GPS systems.\n\nAccording to a Rabobank outlook report in 2013, the largest dredging companies in the world are in order of size \n\nNotable dredging companies in North America:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47479166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47479166", "title": "Drugu", "text": "Drugu\n\nDru gu (also Trugu) is the Tibetan term for Turkic peoples. They are also referred to as \"Du ru ka\", which is based on the Sanskrit word \"Turuṣka\". \"Turuṣka\" was a corrupted form of the ethnic name Turk.\n"}
{"id": "15979562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15979562", "title": "El Molo language", "text": "El Molo language\n\nEl Molo is a possibly extinct language belonging to the Cushitic branch of the Afro-Asiatic language family. It was spoken by the El Molo people on the southeastern shore of Lake Turkana, in northern Kenya. Alternate names to El Molo are Dehes, Elmolo, Fura-Pawa, and Ldes. It was thought to be extinct in the middle part of the 20th century, but a few speakers were found in the later 20th century. However, it may now be truly extinct, as the eight speakers found in a survey published in 1994 were over 50. Most of the El Molo population have shifted to the neighboring Samburu language. El Molo also has no known dialects.\n\nOral tradition sees the El Molo people as an offshoot of the Arbore people in South Ethiopia. This seems to be confirmed by El Molo's linguistic proximity to the Arbore language.\n\nThe possibly extinct El Molo language belonged to the Cushitic branch of the Afro-Asiatic classification. The Cushitic languages are only known to be spoken by 3% of the population. Cushitic is one of the largest language families of East Africa. The geographical area in which Cushitic is spoken stretches from North-East Sudan at the Egyptian border, embracing Eritrea, Jibouti, Somalia, Ethiopia, a considerable part of Kenya, and some areas of Northern Tanzania.\n\nThe El Molo population is also referred to as “Dhes, Elmolo, Fura-Pawa, Ldes, and Ndorobo”. There is an ethnic population of about 2,840 according to the 2009 census and the population is decreasing yearly. The location of this Kenyan language is in East and Southern Africa. Individuals belong to six ethnic groups: Turkana, Samburu and Maasai (Eastern Nilotic-speakers); Luo (Western Nilotic- speakers); Rendille and ElMolo (Cushitic- speaking populations). All populations are cattle herders, with the exception of El Molo that are fishermen. Unlike their surrounding neighbors, they do not depend on livestock for livelihood. Fish is their main diet. And occasionally they eat crocodile, turtle, and hippos. There are a few remaining speakers of the language, which is why El Molo (population) are rarely found to speak \"El Molo.\" (the language). Rather, they use “Samburu\", which is now considered to be their primary language after the shift in tongues. \nKenya is a country that has been considered to be extremely multilingual since the early nineteenth century. There are many different estimates for the ranges of indigenous languages, which is also difficult because many have not been “codified”. As noted when stating statistics with the Development Of The Language in Education Policy there were only 8 indigenous languages that had a textbook produced as late as 1949.\n\nIntangible cultural heritage (ICH) is the legacy of physical properties and intangible attributes of a group or society that are inherited from past generations, and maintained in the present for the benefit of future generations (Singh 2011). Kenya has a National Heritage Policy that recognizes its diversity and encourages the growth of rich and diverse cultures. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) states that ICH makes people and communities distinguishable in their history, nationalities, languages, ideology and values. (46). The past can be understood by studying intangible and tangible heritage that has been preserved over the generations. This verbal and documented history of the land is what allows the growth for the present and future generations. Diverse cultures from surrounding communities also allow diversity to occur at a faster rate than it normally would in this community alone. The transfer of knowledge relies on oral transmission. Although there was a language shift in El Molo to Samburu, in many of these cases where people leave shift to speaking a dominant language, they leave behind vast domains of knowledge that was previously acquired about the land, plants, animals, and so on. The ICH was implemented to provide for the protection and conservation of the cultures along with their history and traditions. As the language is dying out, so is the awareness and consciousness of the land that has accumulated over the years.\n\nThe El Molo today primarily inhabit the northern Eastern Province of Kenya. They are concentrated in Marsabit District on the southeast shore of Lake Turkana, between El Molo bay and Mount Kulal. There is an ethnic population of about 2,840 according to the 2009 census and the population is decreasing yearly. El Molo is critically endangered. There are a few native speakers worldwide. The language is extremely close to extinction since it was shifted as a secondary language by its originators in Kenya. It was thought to be extinct in the 20th century, but few speakers were later found. Since then, the language Samburu has been taking over El Molo and becoming the primary language. Based on evidence from the World Oral Literature Project there is projected to be 8 native speakers remaining. As mentioning in the subsection of how Intangible Cultural Heritage is, most of the indigenous knowledge is lost with there being only few native speakers remaining. Knowledge of the land is being lost in transmission. The ElMolo group are characterized by a low haplotype diversity (0.88), close to that observed in Khoisan hunter-gatherers, and by the non-significance of neutrality tests and the multimodal mismatch distribution indicating small population size and strong genetic drift. According to an mtDNA study by Castri, the maternal ancestry of the contemporary El Molo consists of a mixture of Afro-Asiatic-associated lineages and Sub-Saharan haplogroups, reflecting substantial female gene flow from neighboring Sub-Saharan populations. A little over 30% of the El Molo belonged to the West Eurasian haplogroups.\n\nSamburu is one of the three primary languages in Kenya with El Molo being included. El Molo shifted from an East Cushitic language ,we call ElMolo, to Samburu during the first half of the 20th century. The old Cushitic language of the El Molo was close to two languages, spoken mainly across the border in southwest Ethiopia: Dhaasanac(Tosco 2001) and particularly Arbore (Hayward 1984). According to linguistics experts, the name El Molo is a Samburu name referring to people who do not use livestock as their source of income. According to the community, the last “good” speaker, Kaayo, died in 1999. An unsolved question is whether the Elmolo were “originally” speakers of a Cushitic language, and still another is whether they were always fishers or rather pastoralists who turned to fishing out of necessity in an area utterly unsuitable to animal husbandry. Heine (1982) favors the first hypothesis, and claims that traditional fishing in Kenya’s Rift Valley is likely to go back to Eastern Cushites originating from the Ethiopian Highlands.\n\nEl Molo compromises of 2 small villages on opposite sides of the Lake Turkana. There are 400 households that hold 1900 people. There are only 2 El Molo villages in Kenya and most likely in the entire world. Although it is not just the youth who cannot speak the mother tongue, El Molo, many elders are not able to construct a sentence in El Molo. The remaining few speakers of the language are fighting to keep the language alive. The language and most of the culture has been lost to assimilation from surrounding neighbors. The dialect is on the verge of being extinct. Although, there is still a considerable quantity of preserved vocabulary for the language itself. The original Cushitic-Elmolo can be divided into items of basic vocabulary (such as body parts, numerals, names of plants and animals, and kinship terms). Samburu dialect is now spoken in substitute of El Molo, since it is more difficult to extend the use of the only basic vocabulary known. All the Cushitic material lost its original phonology and morphosyntax which has been adapted to Samburu. Meaning, present-day El Molo follows accords to the morphophonemic Samburu “language rules”.\n\nSamburu is a Maasai language (dialect) of Kenya that can go by alternative names of Burkeneji, E Lokop, Lokop, Nkutuk, Sambur, Sampur. One of the three locations is in Isiolo, Marsabit, and Samburu countries, especially East towards Marasabit which will lead one to Lake Turkana. The distance with between the Samburu and El Molo is why El Molo shifted languages and dialect. Lake Turkana is an area shared between the two communities. Samburu language is used at homes, social gatherings, and for religion. The language can be used for all ages. The population according to the 2009 census is 237,000 and yearly increasing.\n\nIn 1995 the “Elmolo Development Group” (EDG) was established to promote self-reliance among the Elmolo people especially in an attempt for revitalization. In this there also was an Elmolo language revival program that had begun. Founder and chairman, Michael Basili, of the Gura Pau was a teacher and later a schoolmaster and Education Officer of the Loiyangalani Division. He retired in 2006 and this is when he began to attempt to reinstate El Molo as the language of the community through school teaching. Basil and his collogues collected any further linguistic and anthropological data. Efforts were dropped in 2012 because it was difficult to implement and extend Cushitic lexical material as it was limited, or its knowledge was too unevenly spread among the community to be any help. Another thing discovered was how the El Molo people will not disclose themselves the population of their community. They believe that disclosing their numbers endangers them more since over the years they have been assimilated by their surrounding communities.\n\nWith the language endangerment of El molo, there is a possibility of a loss of undiscovered and unique knowledge that is still yet to be explored. Language is also a critical fundamental aspect of communication. It is through language that people can communicate with others of different cultures and gain insight and new knowledge. Dixon states, \"A language is the emblem of its speakers. Each language determines a unique way of viewing the world\". Languages expose people to different ideas and different ways of thinking. Someone speaking a different language can describe the same object in a different way and it is this which provides us with a diversity that allows us to view things in other light. Furthermore, naming plants and animals is a universal human activity, but each culture develops its own habits. One thing as minor as name choice can reveal how a culture imagines the proper place for these creatures in the wild. The names a language bestows upon animals go beyond mere labels, but rather include a great deal of information about the proper place this community, such as El Molo, view this animal in the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24299930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24299930", "title": "Engel classification", "text": "Engel classification\n\nTo classify postoperative outcomes for epilepsy surgery, Jerome Engel proposed the following scheme, the Engel Epilepsy Surgery Outcome Scale, which has become the \"de facto\" standard when reporting results in the medical literature:\n\n\nSurgery for epilepsy patients has been used for over a century, but due to technological restrictions and insufficient knowledge of brain surgery, this treatment approach was relatively rare until the 1980s and 90s. Prior to the 1980s, no classification system existed due to the lack of operations performed up until the time. As surgery as a treatment grew more prevalent, a classification system became a necessity. The appropriate evaluation of patients following epilepsy surgery is extremely important, as medical professionals must know the appropriate course of action to follow in order to achieve seizure freedom for patients. Accordingly, the Engel classification guidelines were devised by UCLA neurologist Jerome Engel Jr. in 1987 and made public at the 1992 Palm Desert Conference on Epilepsy Surgery. The Engel classification system has since become the standard in reporting postoperative outcomes of epilepsy surgery.\n\nIn Engel's 1993 summary of the 1992 Palm Desert Conference on Epilepsy Surgery, he annotated his classification system with more detail. The annotation was as follows:\n\n\nThe subjectivity of the Engel system leaves much of the postoperative class assignment process to the patients. While many have noted the disadvantages of a classification system where the patients are involved in determining the evaluation, others have praised it. Proponents of the Engel classification guidelines argue that the patients are best able to perceive the worth of the operation because they are the ones experiencing the seizures before and after the treatment.\n\nAs is the case for all current methods of reviewing epilepsy surgery outcomes, the Engel classification system has subjective components. A \"disabling seizure\" is subjective and can vary in definition from person to person. While one epileptic experiencing a seizure when driving a car may find the seizure \"disabling,\" the same magnitude of seizure may be interpreted as mild, and thus \"nondisabling,\" by an epileptic resting in bed. Every class other than class I is also subjective because there is no quantitative definition of what determines a rare occurrence or method to measure worthwhileness. One doctor and patient may consider 2 seizures in a year as a rare occurrence while another doctor may consider 10 in a year as rarely occurring. The worthwhileness of the operation is ambiguous because worth can be interpreted differently by various patients and healthcare professionals. Keeping those caveats in mind, most neurologists and neurosurgeons who specialize in epilepsy would most likely agree, as would many epileptics and even laypeople, that any seizure that leads to a period of status epilepticus (seizure activity, especially of the tonic-clonic, or grand mal, type, for longer than about five to ten minutes, or more- some now say it should be as little as two- without an intervening return to normal, or any repeat seizures without a return to consciousness) is a medical emergency, objectively a major problem, and cannot be considered a satisfactory outcome (unless perhaps if the person had a fatal or very severe form of a neurodegenerative syndrome or other disease where such severe repeat seizures are not unusual, and there are a number of these diseases; even then, such an outcome is usually still not a cure, just an amelioration of a fatal condition or a very disabling condition). Continuing to have to endure a large number of tonic-clonic seizures (grand mal seizures) over a period of days, months, or even over the course of a year or two, would make it impossible to drive and very hard to hold a job away from home entailing much stress, and would pose limits on one's abilities to safely carry out the activities of daily living without at least some monitoring or assistance.\n\nThe Engel classification system has been thought of as a cross-sectional grading system by medical professionals because it does not account for long term changes in patients. It has been proposed that it would be more beneficial to reevaluate patients on an annual basis, and the International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE) devised a separate rating scale in 2001 that reevaluates patients on every annual anniversary of their surgery. The ILAE also developed their system in hopes of avoiding many of the subjective components found in the Engel system.\n"}
{"id": "5293731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5293731", "title": "Etienne van Heerden", "text": "Etienne van Heerden\n\nEtienne van Heerden, born 3 December 1954, is a South African author.\n\nVan Heerden was born in 1954, six years after the official advent of apartheid. His mother was an English speaking mathematics teacher. His father, an Afrikaans speaking merino stud breeder, farmed the family farm in the Karoo. Van Heerden was reared Afrikaans, with English reserved for use at home on Tuesdays, and learned from comics ordered from London.\n\nDue to being born blind in the right eye, he was not called up for combat duty, but served as a dog handler, playing his alsatian at major festivals.\n\nVan Heerden initially studied law, and was admitted to the South African Side Bar as attorney. He freelanced as deputy sheriff for the Civil Court, and moved about in the townships around Cape Town, dispensing civil summonses and learning a great deal about life in these suppressed communities. As a young practitioner, his clients were mostly from the black and coloured crime-ridden communities around Cape Town.\n\nVan Heerden also lectured Legal Practice at the Peninsula Technikon and spent two years in advertising. At age thirty, with the birth of his eldest daughter, Van Heerden left the routine of a budding Cape Town advertising agency. He and his family relocated to northern Natal where he started out on his academic career in Literature at the University of Zululand. His PhD was a study on engagement and postmodernism.\n\nDuring the 1980s he was member of a group of Afrikaans writers secretly meeting the banned ANC of Mandela and exiled writers at the (now famous) Victoria Falls Writers’ Conference, held in Zimbabwe.\n\nVan Heerden is seen as member of a generation of Afrikaans artists who contributed significantly to opening up the Afrikaner psyche to change.\n\nHe regularly teaches at universities in Europe, and has been Writer in Residence at the University of Leiden in the Netherlands, and the University of Antwerp in Belgium. He was a member of the University of Iowa’s prestigious International Writing Program in 1990, and has been back on visits to this university, of which he is an Honorary Fellow in Writing. He regularly reads his fiction at events such as the Edinburgh Festival in Scotland, the Winter Nights Festival in the Hague, Netherlands, the Time of the Writer Festival in Berlin, Germany, the Zimbabwe Book Fair and other festivals and events internationally.\n\nDespite at times at odds with the apartheid government, van Heerden never left South Africa permanently, and now teaches at the University of Cape Town, where he is the Hofmeyr Professor in the School of Languages and Literatures, and chairs the Afrikaans and Netherlandic Studies Section. His current activities at the University of Cape Town include the supervision of Creative Writing, where he has led a generation of young Afrikaans authors to published status, and the lecturing of courses in Literary Theory, Media Studies, and South African and Dutch Literature.\n\nVan Heerden is married to Kaia, a practising doctor, and lives in Stellenbosch. The couple has two daughters, Imke and Menán.\n\nAlthough he lives in the Western Cape, Van Heerden returns, in his writing, to the Karoo of his childhood. He describes this arid and mythological part of South Africa’s deep interior is his own “landscape of the mind”.\n\nHe serves on the board of directors of NB Publishers, which includes, amongst others, Kwela, Tafelberg, Best Books and Human and Rousseau publishers.\n\n\nVan Heerden has published two books of poetry, two books of short stories, a collection of cabaret songs, theoretical and academic work, and novels. His activity spans a wide range — a syndicated columnist in the major three Afrikaans dailies, published countrywide in South Africa, his own program on satellite television, and founder-editorship of one of the few South African internet startups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58651337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58651337", "title": "Gabriel Fabella", "text": "Gabriel Fabella\n\nGabriel Fabrero Fabella (March 18, 1898 – January 29, 1982) was a prominent Filipino historian during the 20th century. He is primarily known as the historian behind Philippine President Diosdado Macapagal's decision to issue Proclamation No. 28 on May 12, 1962, which changed the date of Philippine independence from July 4, 1946 to June 12, 1898 — the date when Philippine President Emilio Aguinaldo proclaimed the country's independence from Spain in Kawit, Cavite. For this achievement, Fabella became known as the \"Father of June 12 Independence Day.\"\n\nFabella was also the founder and first president of the Philippine Historical Association, the pioneer professional association of historians in the Philippines.\n\nFabella was born in the island municipality of Banton, Romblon on March 18, 1898 to Maximo Fabella, a coconut and tobacco merchant, and Rafaela Fabrero, a housewife. He is 10th among the couple's 13 children. At the time, Banton was an isolated municipality halfway between Marinduque and the main island of Romblon. As such, he and his family grew up in abject poverty. He received elementary education at Banton Primary School and Romblon Intermediate School. To augment his monthly stipend of ₱3 to ₱4 from Banton, Fabella worked as a store helper for a local Filipino-Chinese merchant.\n\nFor his secondary education, Fabella studied at Manila High School in Intramuros, Manila with the support of his brothers Apolonio and Jorge who already lived there and are working as calesa drivers. To help his brothers in sending him to school, he sold newspapers every Friday and Saturday and polished shoes at Puerta del Parian. He also helped his sister-in-law in selling food to calesa drivers in the Port Area. He finished high school in 1916. Among his high school batchmates include Julio Nalundasan and Carlos P. Romulo.\n\nPoverty forced Fabella to postpone his plan to pursue his college studies. Instead, he worked as an elementary school teacher at Capiz Intermediate School from June 2016 to March 2017. After saving enough money from his salary, he went back to Manila and enrolled at the University of the Philippines Manila. From 1917 to 1920, he completed three courses in the university: Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Science in Education (BSE) and High School Teachers' Certificate (HSTC). He was the first person from Banton to finish both high school and college and the first to have a triple degree. In 1931, Fabella graduated from UP with a degree in Master of Arts in History, thus becoming the first person from Banton to have postgraduate education. In 1934, Fabella completed his Bachelor of Laws degree at the University of Manila and passed the Philippine Bar Examination that same year.\n\nAfter finishing college, Fabella taught at Romblon High School from 1920 to 1922, and at Tayabas High School in Lucena, Quezon (province) from 1922 to 1923. That year, he received an offer from UP Department of History chairperson Dr. Leandro Fernandez to become a history instructor at the university. His first teaching service at UP lasted 11 years, serving alongside other prominent Filipino historians like Gregorio F. Zaide, Encarnacion Alzona and Nicolas Zafra. Among his notable students include would-be dictator Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos. \n\nWhile teaching at UP, he also completed his master's degree in History at the school and his Law degree at the University of Manila. During the same period, he wrote for \"Iwag it Kaanduan\", Romblon's first vernacular newspaper and established his own newspaper \"Bag-ong Iwag\" in 1926. Due to his educational achievements, Fabella was well known in Romblon and was active in various organizations such as Katipunang Bantoanon, Romblomanian Association, Banton Uplift Club and Romblon Youth.\n\nFollowing budget cuts brought about by the Great Depression, Fabella was among several instructors let go by the university in 1934.\n\nAs early as 1922, Fabella showed desire to enter politics to challenge the incumbent Leonardo Festin, who has been assemblyman for the lone seat of Romblon in the National Assembly since 1916. Following the end of his first teaching service in UP in 1934, Fabella joined the Partido Nacionalista Democratico and ran against Festin during the 1935 Philippine general elections. He won against Festin with a lead of 356 votes despite the lack of funding and campaigning throughout the province for only 24 days.\n\nFabella served as Romblon's assemblyman for three years from November 25, 1935 to August 15, 1938. During that time, he became a member of various committees in the National Assembly, namely Public Instruction, Public Services, Civil Service, Codes, Internal Government, Privileges at Navigation. He also appropriated 80 percent of his pork barrel to building schools in Romblon, while the remaining 20 percent was appropriated to construction and repair of roads in the province.\n\nFollowing the end of term in 1938, Fabella didn't seek reelection and returned to teaching instead at the University of the Philippines.\n\nThe resolution asserts the following:\n\n\nIn support of the resolution, Fabella gave public speeches and radio interviews explaining the significance of celebrating June 12 as the country’s independence day. He also wrote the article “Philippine Independence: June 12 or July 4? which was published in the \"Sunday Times Magazine\" in July 1, 1956 and garnered positive responses and support from the people.\n\nThe resolution reached Philippine President Diosdado Macapagal, who issued Proclamation No. 28, declaring June 12 as the country's Independence Day. Congress made the proclamation formal with the adoption and passage of Republic Act No. 4166.\n\nFabella died in Manila on January 29, 1982 at the age of 83.\n\n"}
{"id": "47862299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47862299", "title": "Hiligaynon language", "text": "Hiligaynon language\n\nThe Hiligaynon language, also often referred to by most of its speakers simply as Ilonggo, is an Austronesian regional language spoken in the Philippines by about 9.1 million people, mainly in Western Visayas and SOCCSKSARGEN, most of whom belong to the Visayan ethnic group, mainly the Hiligaynons. It is the second-most widely spoken language and a member of the so-named Visayan language family and is more distantly related to other Philippine languages.\n\nHiligaynon is mainly concentrated in the regions of Western Visayas (Iloilo, Capiz, Guimaras, and Negros Occidental), as well as in South Cotabato, Sultan Kudarat, and North Cotabato in SOCCSKSARGEN. It is also spoken in other neighboring provinces, such as Antique and Aklan (also in Western Visayas), Negros Oriental in Central Visayas, Masbate in Bicol Region, Romblon and Palawan in MIMAROPA. It is also spoken as a second language by Kinaray-a speakers in Antique, Aklanon/Malaynon speakers in Aklan, Capiznon speakers in Capiz and Cebuano speakers in Negros Oriental. There are approximately 9,300,000 people in and out of the Philippines who are native speakers of Hiligaynon and an additional 5,000,000 capable of speaking it with a substantial degree of proficiency.\n\nThe language is also often referred to as \"Ilonggo\" (Spanish: \"Iloŋgo\") in Iloilo and Negros Occidental. Many speakers outside Iloilo argue, however, that this is an incorrect usage of the word \"Ilonggo\". In precise usage, \"Ilonggo\" should be used only in relation to the ethnolinguistic group of native inhabitants of Iloilo and the culture associated with native Hiligaynon speakers in the place including their dialect. The disagreement over the usage of \"Ilonggo\" to refer to the language extends to Philippine language specialists and native laypeople. It also has the one of the largest native language-speaking population of the Philippines despite not being taught and studied formally in schools and universities until 2012. Hiligaynon is given the ISO 639-2 three-letter code hil, but has no ISO 639-1 two-letter code.\n\nHistorical evidence from observations of early Spanish explorers in the Archipelago shows that the nomenclature used to refer to this language had its origin among the people of the coasts or people of the \"Ilawod\" (\"los [naturales] de la playa\"), whom Loarca called \"Yligueynes\" (or the more popular term \"Hiligaynon\", also referred to by the Karay-a people as \"Siná\"). In contrast, the \"Kinaray-a\" has been used by what the Spanish colonizers called \"Arayas\", which may be a Spanish misconception of the Hiligaynon words \"Iraya\" or \"taga-Iraya\", or the current and more popular version \"Karay-a\" (highlanders - people of \"Iraya\"/\"highlands\").\n\nSimilar to many languages in the Philippines, very little research on dialectology has been done on Hiligaynon. Some of the widely recognized varieties of the language are Standard or Urban Hiligaynon (Iloilo provincial and Iloilo City variant), simply called \"Ilonggo\", Bacolodnon Hiligaynon (Metro Bacolod variant), Negrense Hiligaynon (provincial Negros Occidental variant which is composed of 3 sub-variants: Northern, Central and Southern Negrense Hiligaynon), Guimaras Hiligaynon, and Mindanao Hiligaynon. Some native speakers also consider Kinaray-a (also known as Hiniraya or Antiqueño) and Capiznon as dialects of Hiligaynon; however, these have been classified by linguists as separate (Western) Visayan languages.\n\nAccording to H. Otley Beyer and other anthropologists, the term \"Visayan\" was first applied only to the people of Panay and to their settlements eastward in the island of Negros (especially its western portion), and northward in the smaller islands, which now compose the province of Romblon. In fact, at the early part of Spanish colonialization of the Philippines, the Spaniards used the term \"Visayan\" only for these areas. While the people of Cebu, Bohol and Leyte were for a long time known only as Pintados. The name \"Visayan\" was later extended to these other islands because, as several of the early writers state, their languages are closely allied to the Visayan dialect of Panay.\n\nHiligaynon is written using the Latin script. Until the second half of the 20th century, Hiligaynon was widely written largely following Spanish orthographic conventions. Nowadays there is no officially recognized standard orthography for the language and different writers may follow different conventions. It is common for the newer generation, however, to write the language based on the current orthographic rules of Filipino which is more or less phonemic. A noticeable feature of the Spanish-influenced orthography absent in those writing following Filpino's orthography is the use of \"c\" and \"qu\" in representing /k/ (now replaced with \"k\" in all instances) and the absence of the letter \"w\" (formerly used \"u\" in certain instances).\n\nThe core alphabet consists of 20 letters used for expressing consonants and vowels in Hiligaynon, each of which comes in an upper case and lower case variety.\n\nThe apostrophe and hyphen also appear in Hiligaynon writing, and might be considered separate letters.\n\nThe hyphen, in particular, is used medially in some words to indicate the glottal stop \"san-o \"‘when’ \"gab-e\" ‘evening; night’. It is also used to indicate the point in a word where reduplication is present: \"adlaw-adlaw\" ‘daily, every day’, from \"adlaw\" ‘day, sun’. However, the use of this means of marking reduplication is not always consistent: \"pispis\" ‘bird’.\n\nHyphens are also used in words with successive sounds of /g/ and /ŋ/, to separate the letters with the digraph NG. Like in the word \"gin-gaan\" 'was given'; without the hyphen, it would be read as \"gingaan\" /gi.ŋaʔan/ as opposed to /gin.gaʔan.\n\nIn addition, some English letters may be used in borrowed words.\n\nHiligaynon has three types of case markers: absolutive, ergative, and oblique. These types in turn are divided into personal, that have to do with names of people, and impersonal, that deal with everything else, and further into singular and plural types, though the plural impersonal case markers are just the singular impersonal case markers + \"mga\" (a contracted spelling for ), a particle used to denote plurality in Hiligaynon.\n\n(*)The articles \"sing\" and \"sing mga\" means the following noun is indefinite, while \"sang\" tells of a definite noun, like the use of \"a\" in English as opposed to \"the\", however, it is not as common in modern speech, being replaced by \"sang\". It appears in conservative translations of the Bible into Hiligaynon and in traditional or formal speech<br>\n(**)The plural personal case markers are not used very often and not even by all speakers. Again, this is an example of a case marker that has fallen largely into disuse, but is still occasionally used when speaking a more traditional form of Hiligaynon, using less Spanish loan words.\n\nThe case markers do not determine which noun is the subject and which is the object; rather, the affix of the verb determines this, though the \"ang\"-marked noun is always the topic.\n\nIn addition to this, there are two verbal deictics, \"karí\", meaning come to speaker, and \"kadto\", meaning to go yonder.\n\nHiligaynon lacks the marker of sentence inversion \"ay\" of Tagalog/Filipino or \"hay\" of Akeanon. Instead sentences in SV form (Filipino: \"Di karaniwang anyo\") are written without any marker or copula.\n\nExamples:\n\"Si Maria ay maganda\" (Tagalog)<br>\n\"Si Maria matahum/ Si Maria guapa\" (Hiligaynon) = \"Maria is beautiful.\"\n\"Maria is beautiful\" (English)\n\nThere is no direct translation for the English copula \"to be\" in Hiligaynon. However, the prefixes mangin- and nangin- may be used to mean will be and became, respectively.\n\nExample:\nManamì mangín manggaránon.<br>\n\"It is nice to become rich.\"\n\nThe Spanish copula \"estar\" (to be) has also become a part of the Hiligaynon lexicon. Its meaning and pronunciation have changed compared to its Spanish meaning, however. In Hiligaynon it is pronounced as \"istar\" and means \"to live (in)/location\"(Compare with the Hiligaynon word \"puyô\").\n\nExample:\nNagaistar ako sa tabuc suba<br>\n\"I live in tabuc suba\"\n\"tabuc suba\" translates to \"other side of the river\" and is also a barangay in Jaro, Iloilo.\n\nTo indicate the existence of an object, the word \"may\" is used.\n\nExample:\n\nMay idô (a)ko<br>\n\"I have a dog\"\n\nWhen an adjective modifies a noun, the linker \"nga\" links the two.\n\nExample:\n\nItom nga ido<br>\nBlack dog\n\nSometimes, if the linker is preceded by a word that ends in a vowel, glottal stop or the letter N, it becomes acceptable to contract it into -ng, as in Filipino. This is often used to make the words sound more poetic or to reduce the number of syllables. Sometimes the meaning may change as in \"maayo nga aga\" and \"maayong aga\". The first meaning: (the) good morning; while the other is the greeting for 'good morning'.\n\nThe linker \"ka\" is used if a number modifies a noun.\n\nExample:\n\nAnum ka ido<br>\nsix dogs\n\nThe interrogative words of Hiligaynon are as follows: \"diin\", \"san-o\", \"sin-o\", \"nga-a\", \"kamusta\", \"ano\", and \"pila\"\n\n\"Diin\" means where.<br>\nExample:<br>\nDiin ka na subong?<br>\n\"Where are you now?\"\n\nA derivation of \"diin\", tagadiin, is used to inquire the birthplace or hometown of the listener.<br>\nExample:<br>\nTagadiin ka?<br>\n\"Where are you from?\"\n\n\"San-o\" means when<br>\nExample:<br>\nSan-o inâ?<br>\n\"When is that?\"\n\n\"Sin-o\" means who<br>\nExample:<br>\nSin-o imo abyan?<br>\n\"Who is your friend?\"\n\n\"Nga-a\" means why<br>\nExample:<br>\nNga-a indi ka magkadto?<br>\n\"Why won't you go?\"\n\n\"Kamusta\" means how, as in \"How are you?\"<br>\nExample:<br>\nKamusta ang tindahan?<br>\n\"How is the store?\"\n\n\"Ano\" means what<br>\nExample:<br>\nAno ang imo ginabasa?<br>\n\"What are you reading?\"\n\nA derivative of \"ano\", paano, means how, as in \"How do I do that?\"<br>\nExample:<br>\nPaano ko makapulî?<br>\n\"How can I get home?\"\n\nA derivative of \"paano\" is paanoano an archaic phrase which can be compared with kamusta <br>\nExample:<br>\nPaanoano ikaw?<br>\n\"How art thou?\"\n\n\"Pila\" means how much/how many<br>\nExample:<br>\nPila ang maupod sa imo?<br>\n\"How many are with you?\"\n\nA derivative of \"pila\", ikapila, asks the numerical order of the person, as in, \"What place were you born in your family?\"(first-born, second-born, etc.) This word is notoriously difficult to translate into English, as English has no equivalent.<br>\nExample:<br>\nIkapila ka sa inyo pamilya?<br>\n\"What place were you born into your family?\"\n\nA derivative of \"pila\", tagpila, asks the monetary value of something, as in, \"How much is this beef?\"<br>\nExample:<br>\nTagpila ini nga karne sang baka?<br>\n\"How much is this beef?\"\n\nAs it is essential for sentence structure and meaning, focus is a key concept in Hiligaynon and other Philippine languages. In English, in order to emphasize a part of a sentence, variation in intonation is usually employed – the voice is stronger or louder on the part emphasized. For example:\n\n\nFurthermore, active and passive grammatical constructions can be used in English to place focus on the actor or object as the subject:\n\nIn contrast, sentence focus in Philippine languages is built into the construction by grammatical elements. Focus is marked by verbal affixes and a special particle prior to the noun in focus. Consider the following Hiligaynon translations of the above sentences:\n\n\nHiligaynon, like other Philippine languages, employs reduplication, the repetition of a root or stem of a word or part of a word for grammatical or semantic purposes. Reduplication in Hiligaynon tends to be limited to roots instead of affixes, as the only inflectional or derivational morpheme that seems to reduplicate is -pa-. Root reduplication suggests 'non-perfectiveness' or 'non-telicity'. Used with nouns, reduplication of roots indicate particulars which are not fully actualized members of their class. Note the following examples.\n\nReduplication of verbal roots suggests a process lacking a focus or decisive goal. The following examples describe events which have no apparent end, in the sense of lacking purpose or completion. A lack of seriousness may also be implied. Similarly, reduplication can suggest a background process in the midst of a foreground activity, as shown in (5).\n\nWhen used with adjectival roots, non-telicity may suggest a gradualness of the quality, such as the comparison in (6). In comparative constructions the final syllables of each occurrence of the reduplicated root are accented. If the stress of the second occurrence is shifted to the first syllable, then the reduplicated root suggests a superlative degree, as in (7). Note that superlatives can also be created through prefixation of pinaka- to the root, as in pinaka-dakô. While non-telicity can suggest augmentation, as shown in (7), it can also indicate diminishment as in shown in (9), in contrast with (8) (note the stress contrast). In (8b), maàyoáyo, accented in the superlative pattern, suggests a trajectory of improvement that has not been fully achieved. In (9b), maàyoayó suggests a trajectory of decline when accented in the comparative pattern. The reduplicated áyo implies sub-optimal situations in both cases; full goodness/wellness is not achieved.\n\nConsonants and were once allophones but cannot interchange as in other Philippine languages: \"patawaron\" (to forgive) [from \"patawad\", forgiveness] but not \"patawadon,\" and \"tagadiín\" (from where) [from \"diín\", where] but not \"tagariín\".\n\nThere are three main vowels: , , and . and (both spelled i) are allophones, with in the beginning and middle and sometimes final syllables and in final syllables. The vowels and are also allophones, with always being used when it is the beginning of a syllable, and always used when it ends a syllable.\n\nHiligaynon has a large number of words that derive from Spanish words including nouns (e.g., \"santo\" from \"santo\", saint), adjectives (e.g., \"berde\" from \"verde\", green), prepositions (e.g., \"antes\" from \"antes\", before), and conjunctions (e.g., \"pero\" from \"pero\", but). Moreover, Spanish provides the Hiligaynon base for items introduced by Spain, e.g., \"barko\" (\"barco\", ship), \"sapatos\" (\"zapatos\", shoes), \"kutsilyo\" (\"cuchillo\", knife), \"kutsara\" (\"cuchara\", spoon), \"tenedor\" (fork), \"plato\" (plate), \"kamiseta\" (\"camiseta\", shirt), and \"kambiyo\" (\"cambio\", change, as in money).\n\nSpanish verbs used in Hiligaynon often remain unconjugated (have the verb endings -ar, -er or -ir) which in Filipino would almost always be conjugated in the 'vos' form, e.g., \"komparar\", \"mandar\", \"pasar\", \"tener\", \"disponer\", \"mantener\", and \"asistir\".\n\nThe names of the days of the week are derived from their Spanish equivalents.\n\nThe first set of Hiligaynon names of the months are derived from Spanish.\n\nAmay namon, nga yara ka sa mga langit<br>\nPagdayawon ang imo ngalan<br>\nUmabot sa amon ang imo ginharian<br>\nMatuman ang imo buot<br>\nDiri sa duta siling sang sa langit<br>\nHatagan mo kami nian sing kan-on namon<br>\nSa matag-adlaw<br>\nKag patawaron mo kami sa mga sala namon<br>\nSiling nga ginapatawad namon ang nakasala sa amon<br>\nKag dili mo kami ipagpadaug sa mga panulay<br>\nHinunuo luwason mo kami sa kalaut<br>\nAmen.\n\nLiteral translation as per photo:\n\nArticle 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (\"Ang Kalibutánon nga Pahayag sang mga Kinamaatárung sang Katáwhan\")\n\n\n\n\n\nDictionaries\n\nLearning Resources\n\nWriting System (Baybayin)\n\nPrimary Texts\n\nSecondary Literature\n"}
{"id": "4067532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4067532", "title": "Hindustani grammar", "text": "Hindustani grammar\n\nHindustani, the lingua franca of northern India and Pakistan, has two standardised registers: Hindi and Urdu. Grammatically differences between the two standards are minor but each uses its own script: Hindi uses Devanagari while Urdu uses an extended form of the Perso-Arabic script, typically in the Nastaʿlīq style.\n\nOn this grammar page Hindustani is written in \"standard orientalist\" transcription as outlined in . Being \"primarily a system of transliteration from the Indian scripts, [and] based in turn upon Sanskrit\" (cf. IAST), these are its salient features: subscript dots for retroflex consonants; macrons for etymologically, contrastively long vowels; \"h\" for aspirated plosives; and tildes for nasalized vowels.\n\nThe vowels used in Hindustani are the following: , , , , , , , , , . Note that the vowels \"a\" \"ai\" \"au\" normally have the pronunciations . Consonants are outlined in the table below. Hovering the mouse cursor over them will reveal the appropriate IPA symbol, while in the rest of the article hovering the mouse cursor over forms will reveal the appropriate English translation. \n\nHindustani distinguishes two genders (masculine and feminine), two noun types (count and non-count), two numbers (singular and plural), and three cases (direct, oblique, and vocative). Nouns may be further divided into two classes based on declension, called type-I (marked) and type-II (unmarked). The basic difference between the two categories is that the former has characteristic terminations in the direct singular while the latter does not.\n\nThe table below displays the suffix paradigms. A hyphen symbol (for the marked type-I) denotes change from the original termination to another (for example \"laṛkā\" to \"laṛke\" in the masculine singular oblique), whereas a plus sign (for the unmarked type-II) denotes an ending which should be added (\"seb\" to \"sebõ\" in the masculine plural oblique).\n\nThe next table of noun declensions, mostly adapted from , shows the above suffix paradigms in action. Words: \"laṛkā\" ('boy'), \"kuā̃\" ('well'), \"seb\" ('apple'), \"vālid\" ('father'), \"cākū\" ('penknife'), \"ādmī\" ('man'), \"mitra\" ('friend'), \"laṛkī\" ('girl'), \"ciṛiyā\" ('finch'), \"kitāb\" ('book'), \"bhāṣā\" ('language'), and \"aurat\" ('woman').\nNotes for noun declension:\n\nAdjectives may be divided into declinable and indeclinable categories. Declinables are marked, through termination, for the gender, number, case of the nouns they qualify. The set of declinable adjective terminations is similar but greatly simplified in comparison to that of noun terminations —\n\nIndeclinable adjectives are completely invariable, and can end in either consonants or vowels (including \"ā\" and \"ī \"). A number of declinables display nasalization of all terminations. Dir. masc. sg. (\"-ā\") is the citation form.\n\n\nAll adjectives can be used either attributively, predicatively, or substantively. Substantively they are of course declined as nouns rather than adjectives.\n\n\"sā\" (~ \"se\" ~ \"sī\") is a suffix for adjectives, modifying or lightening their meaning; giving them an \"-ish\" or \"quite\" sense. e.g. \"nīlā\" \"blue\" → \"nīlā-sā\" \"bluish\". Its emphasis is rather ambiguous, sometimes enhancing, sometimes toning down, the sense of the adjective.\n\nComparisons are made by using \"than\" (the postposition \"se\"; see below), \"more\" (\"aur\", \"zyādā\"), and \"less\" (\"kam\"). The word for \"more\" is optional, while \"less\" is required, so that in the absence of either \"more\" will be inferred.\n\nIn the absence of an object of comparison (\"more\" of course is now no longer optional):\n\nSuperlatives are made through comparisons with \"all\" (\"sab\"). Comparisons using \"least\" are rare; it is more common to use an antonym.\n\nIn Sanskritized and Persianized registers of Hindustani, comparative and superlative adjectival forms using suffixes derived from those languages can be found.\n\nThe numeral systems of several of the Indo-Aryan languages, including Hindustani and Nepali, are typical decimal systems, but contracted to the extent that nearly every number 1–99 is irregular. The first four ordinal numbers are also irregular. The suffix \"-vā̃\" marks ordinals beginning at the number five.\n\nThe aforementioned inflectional case system only goes so far on its own, and rather serves as that upon which is built a system of agglutinative suffixes or particles known as postpositions, which parallel English's prepositions. It is their use with a noun or verb that necessitates the noun or verb taking the oblique case (though the bare oblique is also minorly used adverbially), and it is with them that the locus of grammatical function or \"case-marking\" then lies. There are seven such one-word primary postpositions:\n\n\nBeyond these are a large range of compound postpositions, composed of the genitive primary postposition \"kā\" in the oblique form (\"ke\", \"kī\") plus an adverb.\n\n\nHindustani has personal pronouns for the first and second persons, while for the third person demonstratives are used, which can be categorized deictically as proximate and non-proximate. Pronouns distinguish cases of direct, oblique, and dative. The lattermost, often called a set of \"contracted\" forms, is in free variation with the oblique case plus dative postposition. Pronouns do not distinguish gender.\n\nAlso displayed in the below table are the genitive pronominal forms to show that the 1st and 2nd pronouns have their own distinctive forms of \"merā\", \"hamārā\", \"terā\", \"tumhārā\" apart from the regular formula of + \"kā\"; as well as the ergative pronominal forms to show that the postposition \"ne\" does not straightforwardly suffix the oblique bases: rather than *\"mujh ne\" and *\"tujh ne\", direct bases are used giving \"mai ne\" and \"tū ne\", and rather than \"in ne\" and \"un ne\", it's \"inhõ ne\" and \"unhõ ne\".\n\n\"tū\", \"tum\", and \"āp\" are the three second person pronouns (\"you\"), constituting a threefold scale of sociolinguistic formality: respectively \"intimate\", \"familiar\", and \"polite\". The \"intimate\" is grammatically singular while the \"familiar\" and \"polite\" are grammatically plural. When being referred to in the third person however, only those of the \"polite\" level of formality are grammatically plural. The following table is adapted from .\nNotes for pronouns:\n\nHindustani has few underived forms. Adverbs may be derived in ways such as the following —\n\nThe Hindustani verbal system is largely structured around a combination of aspect and tense/mood. Like the nominal system, the Hindustani verb involves successive layers of (inflectional) elements to the right of the lexical base.\n\nHindustani has 3 aspects: perfective, habitual, and continuous, each having overt morphological correlates. These are participle forms, inflecting for gender and number by way of a vowel termination, like adjectives. The perfective, though displaying a \"number of irregularities and morphophonemic adjustments\", is the simplest, being just the verb stem followed by the agreement vowel. The habitual forms from the imperfective participle; verb stem, plus -\"t\"-, then vowel. The continuous forms periphrastically through compounding (see below) with the perfective of \"rahnā\" \"to stay\".\n\nDerived from \"honā\" \"to be\" are five copula forms: present, past, subjunctive, presumptive, contrafactual ( \"past conditional\"). Used both in basic predicative/existential sentences and as verbal auxiliaries to aspectual forms, these constitute the basis of tense and mood.\n\nNon-aspectual forms include the infinitive, the imperative, and the conjunctive. Mentioned morphological conditions such the subjunctive, \"presumptive\", etc. are applicable to both copula roots for auxiliary usage with aspectual forms \"and\" to non-copula roots directly for often unspecified (non-aspectual) finite forms.\n\nFinite verbal agreement is with the nominative subject, except in the \"transitive perfective\", where it is with the direct object, with the erstwhile subject taking the ergative construction \"-ne\" (see postpositions above). The perfective aspect thus displays split ergativity.\n\nTabled below on the left are the paradigms for adjectival concord (), here only slightly different from that introduced previously: the f. pl. can nasalize under certain conditions. To the right are the paradigms for personal concord (), used by the subjunctive.\n\nThe sample verb is intransitive \"dauṛnā\" \"to run\", and the sample inflection is 3rd. masc. sg. ( = \"e\", = \"ā\") where applicable.\n\nNotes\n\n\nTransitives or causatives are morphologically contrastive in Hindustani, leading to the existence of related verb sets divisible along such lines. While the derivation of such forms shows patterns, they do reach a level of variegation so as to make it somewhat difficult to outline all-encompassing rules. Furthermore, some sets may have as many as four to five distinct members; also, the meaning of certain members of given sets may be idiosyncratic.\n\nStarting from intransitive or transitive verb stems further transitive/causative stems are produced according to these assorted rules —\n\nThe majority of the following are sets culled from and . The lack of third members displayed for the \"ghūmnā\" to \"dhulnā\" sets does not imply that they do not exist but that they were simply not listed in the source literature . Intransitive verbs are coloured brown while transitives remain the usual black.\n\n\nIn the causative model of \"to cause to be Xed\", the agent takes the postposition \"se\". Thus \"Y se Z banvānā\" \"to cause Z to be made by Y\" = \"to cause Y to make Z\" = \"to have Z made by Y\" = \"to have Y make Z\", etc.\n\nCompound verbs, a highly visible feature of Hindi–Urdu grammar, consist of a verbal stem plus an auxiliary verb. The auxiliary (variously called \"subsidiary\", \"explicator verb\", and \"vector\") loses its own independent meaning and instead \"lends a certain shade of meaning\" to the main or stem verb, which \"comprises the lexical core of the compound\". While almost any verb can act as a main verb, there is a limited set of productive auxiliaries. Shown below are prominent such auxiliaries, with their independent meaning first outlined, followed by their semantic contribution as auxiliaries.\n\n\nThe above three are the most common of auxiliaries, and the \"least marked\", or \"lexically nearly colourless\". The nuance conveyed by an auxiliary can often be very subtle, and need not always be expressed with different words in English translation. \"lenā\" and \"denā\", transitive verbs, occur with transitives, while intransitive \"jānā\" occurs mostly with intransitives; a compound of a transitive and \"jānā\" will be grammatically intransitive as \"jānā\" is.\n\n\nFinally, having to do with the \"manner\" of an occurrence, compounds verbs are mostly used with completed actions and imperatives, and much less with negatives, conjunctives, and contexts continuous or speculative. This is because non-occurrences cannot be described to have occurred in a particular manner.\n\nAnother notable aspect of Hindi–Urdu grammar is that of \"conjunct verbs\", composed of a noun or adjective paired up with a general verbalizer, most commonly transitive \"karnā\" \"to do\" or intransitive \"honā\" \"to be(come)\", functioning in the place of what in English would be single unified verb.\n\nIn the case of an adjective as the non-verbal element, it is often helps to think of \"karnā\" \"to do\" as supplementally having the senses of \"to cause to be\", \"to make\", \"to render\", etc.\n\nIn the case of a noun as the non-verbal element, it is treated syntactically as the verb's (direct) object (never taking the \"ko\" marker; governing agreement in perfective and infinitival constructions), and the semantic patient (or agent: see \"gālī khānā\" below) of the conjunct verbal expression is often expressed/marked syntactically as a genitive adjunct (\"-kā\" ~ \"ke\" ~ \"kī\") of the noun.\n\nWith English it is the verb stems themselves that are used.\n\nThe passive construction is periphrastic. It is formed from the perfective participle by addition of the auxiliary \"jānā\" \"to go\"; i.e. \"likhnā\" \"to write\" → \"likhā jānā\" \"to be written\". The agent is marked by the postposition \"se\". Furthermore, both intransitive and transitive verbs may be grammatically passivized to show physical/psychological incapacity, usually in negative sentences. Lastly, intransitives often have a passive sense, or convey unintentional action.\n\nWith regards to word order, Hindustani is an SOV language. In terms of branching, it is neither purely left- or right-branching, and phenomena of both types can be found. The order of constituents in sentences as a whole lacks governing \"hard and fast rules\", and frequent deviations can be found from normative word position, describable in terms of a small number of rules, accounting for facts beyond the pale of the label of \"SOV\".\n\n\nPossession, reflecting what many other languages indicate via the verb \"to have\", is reflected in Hindustani by the genitive \"kā\" (inflected appropriately) or the postposition \"ke pās\" (\"near\") and the verb \"honā\". Possible objects of possession (nouns) fall into two main categories in Hindustani: one for persons such as family members, or body parts, and the other for most inanimate objects, animals, most abstract ideas, and some persons such as servants.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5427642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5427642", "title": "Ijaw languages", "text": "Ijaw languages\n\nThe Ijaw languages (), also spelt Ịjọ, are the languages spoken by the Ijo people in southern Nigeria. \n\nThe Ijo languages are traditionally considered a distinct branch of the Niger–Congo family (perhaps along with Defaka in a group called Ijoid). They are notable for their subject–object–verb basic word order, which is otherwise an unusual feature in Niger–Congo, shared only by such distant potential branches as Mande and Dogon. Like Mande and Dogon, Ijoid lacks even traces of the noun class system considered characteristic of Niger–Congo. This motivated Joseph Greenberg, in his initial classification of Niger–Congo, to describe them as having split early from that family. However, owing to the lack of these features, Linguist Gerrit Dimmendaal doubts their inclusion in Niger–Congo altogether and considers the Ijoid languages to be an independent family.\n\nThe following internal classification is based on Jenewari (1989) and Williamson & Blench (2000).\n\n\nBerbice Creole Dutch, a creole spoken in Guyana, had a lexicon based partly on an Ịjọ language, perhaps the ancestor of Kalabari (Kouwenberg 1994).\n\nIn June 2013, the \"Izon Fie\" instructional book and audio CDs were launched at a ceremony attended by officials of the government of Bayelsa State. The Niger Delta University is working to expand the range of books available in the Ijo language. Translations of poetry and the \"Call of the River Nun\" by Gabriel Okara are underway.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "60287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60287", "title": "Inkwell", "text": "Inkwell\n\nAn inkwell is a small jar or container, often made of glass, porcelain, silver, brass, or pewter, used for holding ink in a place convenient for the person who is writing. The artist or writer dips the brush, quill, or dip pen into the inkwell as needed or uses the inkwell as the source for filling the reservoir of a fountain pen. An inkwell usually has a lid to prevent contamination, evaporation, accidental spillage, and excessive exposure to air. A type known as the travelling inkwell was fitted with a secure, screw lid so a traveller could carry a supply of ink in their luggage without the risk of leakage.\nThe inkwell's origins may be traced back to Ancient Egypt where scribes would write on papyrus. Knowledge of hieroglyphics was at the time highly restricted. Only scribes knew the full array of hieroglyphs and would write on the behalf of their employers, usually the pharaoh. After Rome invaded Egypt, inkwells became more popular in Italy as a larger percentage of the population were capable of writing.\n\nInkwells gradually fell out of use in the early part of 20th century as the reservoir fountain pen (which needs to be filled only occasionally) replaced the dip pen, which needed to be dipped in ink after writing a few lines. Old school desks had round holes for inkwells.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4635741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4635741", "title": "Interlac", "text": "Interlac\n\nInterlac is the designated communication language of the 30th century United Planets in the DC Comics fictional universe. It is also the name of a similarly-used language in the TV series \"Babylon 5\".\nBasically, the Interlac alphabet is a simple one-to-one substitution cipher. The Interlac alphabet corresponds perfectly to the twenty-six letters of the Latin alphabet and the numbering system corresponds to Earth Base-Ten form. Although nominally protected by differences in font spacing, the numbering system itself suffers from a minor stylistic flaw due to the potential for confusion of 6 with 41 and 7 with 42. Anyone writing it by hand could certainly introduce an error when read by another, and this could create problems with handwriting recognition, as well.\n\nThe first reference to Interlac as the \"intergalactic universal language of the 30th century\" was in \"Adventure Comics\" #379 published March, 1969. It was also frequently referred to in the \"Super Friends\" comic book series (in which all of the Super Friends, including Wendy and Marvin, speak it) as a token explanation of how the Super Friends could understand the language of visiting and/or invading extraterrestrials. The Interlac alphabet was codified years later by writer Paul Levitz and artist Keith Giffen in \"Legion of Super-Heroes\" (vol. 2) #312 (June 1984).\n\nAfter the DC Comics reboot, the new \"Blue Beetle\" title points out that a planet that is under attack by The Reach is speaking in Interlac. This planet is in Space Sector 2, and these events take place an undefined time ago, though described as \"Long, long ago.\" and images of Earth show a Mayan tribe. Contradictory to the statement that the aliens seen are speaking Interlac is the text that can be seen on the signs in the background of the panels. These symbols do not match up to the Interlac alphabet. This may be due to the text being in their native language or a different written dialect as some symbols are similar.\n\nTowards the start of \"The Martian Chronicles\" (Episode 11 of Season 2 of \"Supergirl\"), Interlac makes a cameo appearance via graffiti seen on a for-aliens bar when employee M'gann exits to take the trash out. Appropriately, the tag is simply \"bar\". In \"Wake Up\" (Episode 7 of Season 3), the control panel of an alien hibernation device is written in Interlac, displaying such words as \"Ready\", \"Normal\", and \"Danger\".\n\nIn the \"Lightning Saga\" crossover in \"Justice League of America\" (vol. 2) and \"Justice Society of America\" (vol. 2) Interlac is spoken by the character Starman and others as a trigger. They say \"Lightning Lad\" in Interlac, freeing other Legion members from the mental blocks that have been put in place.\n\nThe individual chapter titles are also printed in Interlac:\n\nInterlac is also shown to be the language in which the Guardians of the Universe write the Book of Oa.\n\nShown to have been used thousands of years ago in Space Sector 2, according to \"Blue Beetle\" issue 1, of the New DC Universe.\n\nIn the universe of the TV series \"Babylon 5\", Interlac is a universal language most often used in first contact situations because it is easily translated. It is easily translated because it is a language based on pure mathematics. In this context, it is normally used only in first contact situations until such a time as a more common understanding between two new species becomes available. Unlike the DC Comics \"Interlac\", the common trade language in the Babylon 5 universe is English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3104341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3104341", "title": "Internacia Televido", "text": "Internacia Televido\n\nInternacia Televido was an internet-based Esperanto-language television station, launched on 5 November 2005 by the Ĝangalo news site from São Paulo, Brazil. A 24-hour streaming service funded primarily by viewer donations, the station ceased operation in August 2006.\n"}
{"id": "5836532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5836532", "title": "Ishwar Chandra Gupta", "text": "Ishwar Chandra Gupta\n\nIshwar Chandra Gupta (; March 1812 – 23 January 1859) was a famous Indian Bengali poet and writer. Gupta was born in Kanchrapara, North 24 Parganas, West Bengal, India.\n\nIshwar Chandra Gupta was born in a Baidya family. He was brought up in his uncle's house after the death of his mother. Gupta spent most of his childhood in Kolkata. At that time, poets were named \"Kobiwala\" and the \"kobiwalas\" were not so civilized in language. Sexual words and clashes were common. But Ishwar Chandra Gupta created a different style of poetry.\n\nHe started the newspaper \"Sambad Prabhakar\" with Jogendra Mohan Tagore on January 28, 1831, which finally became a daily on June 4, 1839. Many Bengali writers of the 19th century started their careers with that magazine. He reintroduced into Bengali poetry the mediaeval style with double meaning (already seen in Sandhyakaranandi and Bharatchandra):\n\n'Ishwar' means God, 'Gupta' means hidden and 'Prabhakar' is the sun. So a translation runs:\n\nAlso, Ishwar (Chandra) Gupta ran the journal \"Prabhakar\". So a second meaning of the poem, making a tongue-in-cheek reference to the author, runs:\n\nHe brought modern era of poetry in Bengali. He did not describe the life of Gods and Goddesses, but the daily life of human beings. He also wrote biographies of many Bengali poets and musicians.\n\nIshwarchandra Gupta always satires the so-called modern class who blindly followed the colonial British power.\n\nHis literary works were included in the curriculum of school level, secondary and higher secondary Bengali Literature in Bengali speaking states like West Bengal, Tripura etc. of India and country Bangladesh.\n\nIn the early days he was a conservative, opposing the Young Bengal movement as well as frowning on widow remarriage. His views on widow remarriage put him at odds with Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar. He was one of the earliest advocates of a Hindu view of Indian society. Later in his life, his views began to change and he championed the cause for the remarriage of virgin widows and women's education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29217979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29217979", "title": "Kalabari language", "text": "Kalabari language\n\nKalabari is an Ijo language of Nigeria spoken in Rivers State and Bayelsa State. Its three dialects are mutually intelligible. The Kalabari dialect (Kalabari proper) is one of the best-documented varieties of Ijo, and as such is frequently used as the prime example of Ijo in linguistic literature.\n\nAs of 2005, the language, \"spoken by 258,000 people, [was] endangered largely because of the massive relocation that has taken place in the area due to the development of Nigeria's oil industry in the Port Harcourt region.\"\n\nThe Kalabari language became the basis of Berbice, a Dutch Creole spoken in Eastern Guyana.\n\nKalabari language words have been proposed for some modern technical terms.\n\n"}
{"id": "33210966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33210966", "title": "Kare language (Adamawa)", "text": "Kare language (Adamawa)\n\nKare (Kãrɛ̃, Kareng) is an Mbum language of the Central African Republic. It is spoken by around 97,000 people in the country. There are a few thousand speakers in Cameroon. \n\n\"Ethnologue\" 17 reports that Kare is intelligible with Mbum proper. However, languages more closely related to either are not reported to be intelligible. \"Ethnologue\" lists Tale (Tali) as a dialect, but Blench (2004) leaves it unclassified within the Mbum languages. \"Ethnologue\" also lists Kali as a synonym; Blench lists a Kali language in a different branch of the Mbum languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "40159075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40159075", "title": "Kathmandu Debates", "text": "Kathmandu Debates\n\nThe Kathmandu Debates is a high school debating championship led by the youth of the Sano Sansar Initiative. The program aims to provide a platform to encourage young people to engage in social, political, and sustainable economic development issues through the use of the positive aspects of debating.\n\nThe 2013 Kathmandu Debates commenced with educational tracks focused on providing knowledge of debating in the Karl Popper Debating Championship Format to the students in Nepal. More than a hundred young, amateur students participated in the debate tournament, organized with support from the American Embassy in Kathmandu. Nepal is one of the countries mostly dependent on remittances. The finals of the debate consisted of the motion \"THBT [This house believes that] State should prioritize Foreign Investment to Labor Export as Major Economic Strategy\". The final debate took place on February 7, 2013, the 7th Anniversary of the Sano Sansar Initiative.\n\nThe Kathmandu Debates Tournament was organized in the KPDC (Karl Popper Debating Championship) Format. Teams were composed of four students accompanied by a debate coach. Due to the lack of debating culture in Nepal and with KPDC being a new style of debate in Nepal, the 2013 Kathmandu Debates held a three-day educational track for the students.\n"}
{"id": "35469678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35469678", "title": "Ke'o language", "text": "Ke'o language\n\nKéo is an Austronesian language belonging to the Kéo ethnic group (‘ata Kéo, ‘Kéo people’) that reside in an area southeast of the Ebu Lobo volcano in the south-central part of Nusa Tenggara Timur Province on the island of Flores, eastern Indonesia.\n\nKéo belongs to the Malayo-Polynesian, Central-Eastern Malayo-Polynesian, Bima-Lembata subgroups of the Austronesian language family and there are approximately 40,000 speakers.\n\nKéo is sometimes referred to as Nage-Kéo, the Nage being the name of a neighbouring ethnic group that is generally considered culturally distinct from Kéo, however whether or not the two languages are separate entities is ambivalent.\n\nUncommon to Austronesian languages, Kéo is a highly isolating language that lacks inflectional morphology or clear morphological derivation. Instead it relies more heavily on lexical and syntactic grammatical processes.\n\nKéo (referred to locally as sara kita ‘our language’ or sara ndai ‘the language here’ as well as Bahasa Bajawa ‘The Bajawa Language’ by people not from central Flores) has distinct dialectal variation between villages. Kéo speakers are able to determine where someone is from based on pronunciation and word use.\n\nOverall, the attitude towards Kéo by its speakers is unfavourable. It is considered more economically beneficial to speak Indonesian or English. Despite this sentiment, a sense of respect for the language remains through its oral traditions.\n\nThe Kéo spoken in the village of Udiworowatu (where the majority of data has been collected on the language) has a phonemic inventory of 23 consonants.\n\nThere is a four-way stop distinction for manner of articulation: voiceless (unaspirated), voiced, preglottalised and prenasalised. This is atypical for an Austronesian language.\n\nKéo does not have a contrastive distinction between bilabial and labio-dental , hence the term ‘labial’ has been used for the place of articulation.\n\nThere are 6 vowel phonemes in Kéo.\n\nIn Kéo there are 7 standard pronoun forms that form a closed word class.\n\nKéo pronouns have the same form irrespective of their syntactic behaviour. They can function as independent pronouns, as subjects, objects or as possessors. There are also no grammatical gender distinctions.\n\nIn the examples below we can see the 1st singular pronoun \"nga’o\" used across four different scenarios: as the subject of an intransitive verb (1), as the subject of a transitive verb (2), as an object, (3) and in the possessor slot of a possessive construction (4).\n\nExamples:\n\n(1) Nga’o \"mbana.\"\n1sg walk\nI’m walking\n\n(2) Nga’o \"bhobha\" \"‘imu.\"\n1sg hit 3sg\nI hit him.\n\n(3) \"Kepa\" \"kiki\" nga’o.\nmosquito bit me\nA mosquito bit me.\n\n(4) \"Dima\" nga’o \"lo\".\narm 1sg hurt\nMy arm hurts. \n\nThe alternate pronoun forms in Kéo are \"ja’o\", \"miu\", \"kita\" and \"sira\". Their usage can depend on dialectal variants, politeness and taboo avoidance rules and specificity with quantity of people involved in the utterance.\n\n\"J’ao\" is an alternate pronoun for \"nga’o\" in the first person singular. In the past, the two terms were used as a dialect-identifying feature for the Kéo speaking areas. Nowadays, both pronouns are used and personal preference appears to dictate usage. It has also been noted that a child will apply the term that is used by their mother.\n\nIn an example from a Kéo storyteller, both first person pronoun forms are used stylistically to distinguish the main characters during a passage of direct speech, Wodo Bako \"nga’o\" and the sorcerer \"ja’o\". This distinction can reflect the storyteller’s partiality towards a character depending on which form they themselves identify with.\n\nExamples:\n\n5) \"Négha\" \"ké\" \"Wodo\" \"Bako\" \"simba\" \"si’I\", “Ata podo\" \"kau\" \"kema\" \"wado\" \"‘ari\" nga’o.”\nalready that W. B then say person sorcerer 2sg work return younger sibling 1st\n\nAfter that Wodo Bako then said, “Sorcerer you bring back my younger brother.”\n\n6) ‘Ata podo si’I, “Modo ja’o kema wado”\nperson sorcerer say ok 1sg work to return\nThe sorcerer said, “Ok I’ll bring him back.” \n\n\"Miu\" as shown in the ‘standard’ pronoun form table above is used to address more than one person, yet it can also be used to show a level of respect and politeness when speaking to someone.\n\nExample:\n\n7) \"‘Iné\" miu \"ta\" \"ndia.\"\nma’am 2pl REL here.\nMa’am, you stay here (while I go).\n\n\"Kita\" is the pronoun used for first person plural inclusive. In some cases \"kita\" is used to replace \"kami\" (first personal plural exclusive) when talking about belongings or possession. This switch in pronoun to include the addressee(s) makes the speaker appear more community-minded and generous opposed to being arrogant or selfish.\n\nExample:\n\n8) \"kamba\" \"ko’o\" \"sai?\" \"Kamba\" kita.\nbuffalo POSS who buffalo 1pl.incl\nWhose buffalo are these? Our water buffalo.\n\n\"Sira\" is the archaic third person pronoun plural form that can replace the standard second and third person pronouns \"kay\" and \"‘imi\". \"Sira\" is used to avoid certain taboos in Kéo culture that include addressing parents-in-law or people held in high regard. Sira is also used when addressing a large group of people.\n\nKéo pronouns can be followed by numerals to indicate the exact number of referents. The pronoun-numeral sequence is the only time a number can be used without a classifier. The most common numeral used is \"rua\" ‘two’ (9) to create dual pronouns, yet it also acceptable to use any other numeral (10).\n\nExamples:\n\n9) \"Mama\" \"né’e\" \"bapa\" \"ko’o\" \"Henri\" \"itu\" \"tungga\" kami \"rua\" \"weta\" \"nala\".\n\nmum and dad POSS H. that only 1pl.excl two sister brother\n\nMe and Henri’s dad, only us two were siblings.\n\n10) \"Rembu\" miu \"dima\" \"mbana\".\n\nAll 2pl five go\nAll five of you go.\n"}
{"id": "43675636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43675636", "title": "Kirovskyi District, Donetsk", "text": "Kirovskyi District, Donetsk\n\nKirovskyi District () is an urban district of the city of Donetsk, Ukraine, named after a mayor of the Russian city Saint Petersburg Sergei Kirov.\n\n"}
{"id": "46492446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46492446", "title": "Languages of Palestine", "text": "Languages of Palestine\n\nThe languages of Palestine are the languages spoken or once spoken in the territory of the State of Palestine.\n\nPalestinian Arabic is the primary language spoken by Palestinians and has a unique dialect. A Levantine Arabic dialect subgroup, it is spoken in Palestine by Arab citizens of Israel (mostly Palestinians) and in most Palestinian populations around the world. However, Palestinian refugees in other parts of the world may have a different dialect from Palestinian Arabic. In the West Bank, there are many Israeli settlements in which, since the early 20th century, Hebrew has become more common. However, Russian and Amharic has also started to appear resulting from aliyah from Ethiopia. Other Jewish migrants have also brought other European languages.\n\nIn premodern and medieval time periods, many other languages had also been spoken in Palestine for ceremonial purposes or otherwise, including Latin and other Italic languages as well as French, Germanic languages, Classical Arabic and Greek. However, they gradually faded away along with geopolitical shifts and the end of feudalism.\n\n"}
{"id": "4022808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4022808", "title": "List of Chinese administrative divisions by illiteracy rate", "text": "List of Chinese administrative divisions by illiteracy rate\n\nAccording to \"the sixth population census\" in 2010 the overall literacy rate in the People's Republic of China was 95.92%. In the different regions the illiteracy rate varies considerably, though. The following is a list of the first-level administrative divisions covered in the population census, including all provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities, in order of their officially reported illiteracy rate for people aged 15 and above in 2010. The figures are from the 2010 census published by the Bureau of Statistics of the PRC.\n\nFigures from a different source, the CIA World Factbook, are given for the special administrative regions Hong Kong (2002) and Macau (2001); these are not directly comparable as the methodologies used may differ.\n\n"}
{"id": "1967544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1967544", "title": "List of constructed languages", "text": "List of constructed languages\n\nThe following list of notable constructed languages is divided into auxiliary, ritual, engineered, and artistic (including fictional) languages, and their respective subgenres. All entries on this list have further information on separate Wikipedia articles.\n\nInternational auxiliary languages are languages constructed to provide communication among all human beings, or a significant portion, without necessarily replacing native languages.\n\nControlled natural languages are natural languages that have been altered to make them simpler, easier to use, or more acceptable in certain circumstances, such as for use by people who do not speak the original language well. The following projects are examples of controlled English:\n\n\nVisual languages use symbols or movements in place of the spoken word. Sign languages fall in this category.\n\nThese are languages (and scripts) in actual use by their communities or congregations.\n\n\n\nAdditionally, sketches of various other languages, such as Adûnaic, the Black Speech, Khuzdul, Telerin and Westron appear in his Middle-earth works alongside earlier draughts or imagined archaic forms of Elven languages such as Common Eldarin or Primitive Quendian, Goldogrin, and Ilkorin. Others such as Entish, Rohirric, and six languages of the Avari are mentioned but have only one or two words or phrases noted. For the film adaptation, linguist David Salo was hired to expand on Tolkien's languages where required for dialogue.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSome experimental languages were developed to observe hypotheses of alternative linguistic interactions which could have led to very different modern languages. Two examples include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47448109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47448109", "title": "Lulism", "text": "Lulism\n\nLulism () is a political ideology describing the 2006 consolidation of segments of Brazilian society previously hostile to social movements and the Workers' Party behind political forces led by President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. The controlled reformism and limited structural change focused on the poorest sections of society. The lower classes, who had distanced themselves from Lula, accepted his candidacy after his first term as President as the middle class turned from him. One explanation would be a new ideological configuration incorporating left- and right-wing elements. The rhetoric and praxis which united the maintenance of stability and state distributism are the origins of Lulism. Although distinct, it shares characteristics of Chavism and Kirchnerism.\n\nTo build political consensus and secure social peace, Lulism has forged a coalition of interests across Brazilian society instead of pursuing an ideological agenda and gradual reformism was favored over direct confrontation with the elite. Brazilian manufacturers, banks and retailers benefited from the consumption-led and credit-fueled government economic model. According to André Singer, who coined the term: \"The convergence of interests of the private industry sector on one side, and of the organized labor force on the other, led to the stability that allowed this political system to take the form of a sort of consensus\". This equilibrium allowed the government to gradually make significant changes in policy. In the Lulism movement, non-confrontation is a \"sine qua non\" for development.\n\nThe word Lulism was coined by André Singer, a political scientist and Lula's press secretary from 2003 to 2005 and spokesperson during his presidency from 2002 to 2007.<ref name=\"FSP/19-AGO-2012\"></ref><ref name=\"IG/30-SET-2012\"></ref> Originating in the 2002 presidential campaign, Lulism departed from the left-wing politics of the Workers Party until late 2001<ref name=\"CEBRAP/2009\"></ref> and abandoned the concepts of organization and mobilization. Since Lulism is a model of enforced change within order, mobilization is unnecessary and conflict is eliminated.\n\nA 2009 article written for the Instituto Millenium said that \"liberals are cornered\" after \"more than six years of Lulism\". Patrícia Carlos de Andrade adopted that view: \"According to her, the term 'liberal' is mistranslated in Brazil as 'rightist' or 'supportive of military dictatorships'. In the war for public opinion, the so-called left always got the better, Singer says\".\n\nLulism sought reconciliation between Lula's charisma and the large Brazilian conservative sector.<ref name=\"VIOMUNDO/28-JUN-2013\"></ref> Ironically,<ref name=\"BF/03-JAN-2013\"></ref> it is a conservative social pact combining the economic policy of Fernando Henrique Cardoso (1995–2002) with the distributive policies of Lula's government (2002–2010).\n\nUnder the auspices of conciliation,<ref name=\"TEMPO-SOCIAL/NOV-2012\"></ref> Lulism represents an \"appeasement of social conflicts, of which the bourgeoisie has always [been] too afraid, especially in a country of great inequality as is the case of Brazil\" because it envisions a \"reduction-agenda poverty and inequality, but under the aegis of a weak reformism\". This social change model is explained as a \"conservative variant of modernization\" in which the state has a \"prominent role in leveraging the poorest\", ensuring that Brazilian social structural problems will not be touched (in other words, without conflicting with the financial interests of the conservative elite). Lulism \"concocted new ideological, under-union banners that seemed to combine\" continuity of the Lula and Cardoso governments in macroeconomic policy based on three pillars, namely inflation control, a floating exchange rate and a budgetary surplus.\n\nAnother feature distinguishing Lulism as a political movement is its nonpartisan character. It overlaps the political parties, including the Workers Party founded by Lula. Although the movement was anchored in Lula's charisma, Lulism differs from other movements surrounding political leaders (such as Peronism in Argentina) in its lack of a cult of personality around the former Brazilian President.\n\nWith the recent events in Brazilian politics, such as the impeachment of Dilma Rousseff (which is consider it to be a coup by the Brazilian left and centre-left parties), the arrest of Lula on 7 April 2018 and new President Michel Temer's reform of labour laws, some political commentators are arguing about a second phase of Lulism, now more radical and more left orientated.\n\nSeveral Latin American politicians such as Ollanta Humala, José Mujica, Mauricio Funes, Fernando Lugo and Henrique Capriles have cited Lulism and Chavism as political models and alternatives to the Washington Consensus.<ref name=\"CM/06-OUT/2012\"></ref><ref name=\"GLOBO/28-ABR-2012\"></ref>\n\n"}
{"id": "58835165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58835165", "title": "Margaret Cicely Langton Greene", "text": "Margaret Cicely Langton Greene\n\nMargaret Cicely Langton Greene was a British speech and language therapist. \n\nShe was elected a Fellow of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists in 1957. She was also the editor of its \"Bulletin\" and its journal, \"Speech\", in the mid- 1950s. Margaret Greene received an OBE in the 1987 Birthday Honours for services to Speech Therapy. In 1957 Green published \"The Voice and its Disorders\", which represented a major contribution to the clinical assessment and treatment of voice disorders and was amongt the few texts available on the subject at the time. The book is now into it's 6th edition, most recently updated and re-published in 2001 by Lesley Mathieson.\n\n"}
{"id": "4828243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4828243", "title": "Masa languages", "text": "Masa languages\n\nThe Masa languages are a group of a dozen closely related Chadic languages of West Africa.\n\nThe Masa languages listed in Blench (2006) are:\n\n\nThe exonym \"Zime\" is used for the Herdé, Ngeté, Pévé, and Mesmé. Similarly, \"Kaɗo\" is a generic name for the Peve–Kaɗo languages, a couple of which are called \"Lamé\" as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "7592962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7592962", "title": "Master suppression techniques", "text": "Master suppression techniques\n\nThe Master suppression techniques is a framework articulated in 1945 by the Norwegian psychologist and philosopher Ingjald Nissen. These techniques identified by Nissen are ways to indirectly suppress and humiliate opponents. In the late 1970s the framework was popularized by Norwegian social psychologist Berit Ås, who reduced Nissen's original nine means to five. Master suppression techniques are defined as strategies of social manipulation by which a dominant group maintains such a position in a (established or unexposed) hierarchy. They are very prominent in Scandinavian scholarly and public debate, where the expression is also used to refer to types of social manipulation not part of Ås's framework. Master suppression techniques are sometimes called domination techniques.\n\nTo silence or otherwise marginalize persons in opposition by ignoring them\n\nIn a manipulative way to portray the arguments of, or their opponents themselves, in a ridiculing fashion\nTo exclude a person from the decision making process, or knowingly not forwarding information so as to make the person less able to make an informed choice\n\nTo punish or otherwise belittle the actions of a person, regardless of how they act\nTo embarrass someone, or to insinuate that they are themselves to blame for their position\n\nBerit Ås has since added two supplementary master suppression techniques.\n\nTo discuss the appearance of one or several persons in a situation where it is irrelevant\n\nTo threaten with or use one's physical strength towards one or several persons\n\nA group of PhD students at Stockholm University has formulated five \"counter strategies\":\n\nThey have also formulated five \"confirmation techniques\":\nThe Centre for Gender Equality in Norway has also published an article about how to combat this phenomenon.\n\n"}
{"id": "41380474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41380474", "title": "Movlud Suleymanli", "text": "Movlud Suleymanli\n\nMovlud Suleymanli, (Balakishiyev Movlud, the son of Suleyman) (born 18 March 1943) is an Azerbaijani prose writer, dramatist, screenwriter and film adviser. He has been a member of the Union of Azerbaijani Writers since 1980, and is an honored art figure and the vice-chairman of the \"Azerbaijan Television and Radio\" limited company. Suleymanli has won the \"Qızıl Qalam“ (Golden Pen) award of the Union of Azerbaijani Writers, and the All-union literary competition in the name of Maxim Gorky, with his first book published in the Russian language in Moscow. He won the Qızıl Sünbül (Golden Ear) laureate of the Union of Azerbaijani Writers for \"the best work dedicated to rustication\". \"Araz “ high literary award owing to his achievement in the field of fictional and non-fictional publicity, ANASAM award certificate owing to \"Departation“ novel and the best work of the year, estimation award of \"Anadolu Conference\".\n\nHe began his creativity with “My Hands” poem published in Azerbaijani Youth newspaper in 1964. In October 1940 he wrote the first author number of “Fountain” broadcast that life of broadcast exceed 40 years. In 1974 Movlud Suleymanlı was awarded “Qızıl Qalam “ ( Golden Pen ) of Union of Azerbaijani Writers, alleged to paramount role of broadcast in promulgation of Azerbaijani folk lore, ethnography, language and family life. In 1972 The Committee of Teleradio broadcasts sent him to Moscow for qualification courses. Writer was admitted to Azerbaiajani Film Studio in the name of Jafar Jabbarly as a screenwriter in 1974. Fictional television films : \"Abduction of groom\" on the basis of his scenari and “ our gamp is cloud\" on an order of Moscow State Cinematography Committee were shot in 80 years. Association of Azerbaijani Writers invite Movlud Suleymanli to a job since 1976. He was the member of Union of Azerbaijani Writers since 1974. From 1976 to 1980, Movlud Suleymanlı was director of prosaic department in \"Star\" journal that is the body of Association of Azerbaijani Writers and lead prosaic department of \"Azerbaijan\" journal that is more authoritative body of Association of Azerbaijani Writers. There were great changes in the variety of structures because of changes in Azerbaijani sociopolitical life. In these years, separate newspaper in the name of “ Oguz eli “(Oguz people ) was published by editor-in-chief of Movlud Suleymanli. In these years \"Oguz eli\" (Oguz people ) newspaper wrote by M. Süleymаnlı had played a significant role in literary and cultural life of republic. \"Mill\" (Dəyirman ) drama theatricalised on the basis of \"Mill\" novelette in Sumgait Drama Theatre in the name of Hüseyn Arablinski and \"Betrayer\" Ssatqın) in \"Yug\" theatre were staged.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23430027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23430027", "title": "Nileena Abraham", "text": "Nileena Abraham\n\nNileena Abraham (née Dutta) (born 27 July 1925) is a writer and translator from Kerala, India. She was born in Pabna. After earning master's degrees in Bengali language, political science and history, she moved to Kerala and worked as a professor of Bengali at Maharaja's College, Ernakulam and as the Dr. Suniti Kumar Chatterji Professor of Bengali at International School of Dravidian Linguistics, Thiruvananthapuram. She has translated more than eight Bengali works into Malayalam and ten Malayalam works into Bengali. She has won the Sahitya Academy award for translation in 1989 for Bengali translation of \"Pathummayude Adu and Balyakalasakhi\", a collection of Malayalam short stories by Vaikom Muhammad Basheer. She lives in Ernakulam and is married to Abraham Tharyan.\n\n"}
{"id": "31464949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31464949", "title": "Partner-assisted reproduction", "text": "Partner-assisted reproduction\n\nPartner-assisted reproduction (also known as reception of oocyctes from partner (ROPA)) is a family model first introduced in Spain in 2009. In partner-assisted reproduction, one woman provides the eggs, and the embryo is implanted into her female partner's womb. (As a technical matter, this technique does not differ from oocyte donation.) Using this process ensures that each partner is a biological mother of the child.\n"}
{"id": "18085080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18085080", "title": "Possum belly", "text": "Possum belly\n\nA Possum belly, on a drilling rig, is a metal container at the head of the shale shaker that receives the flow of drilling fluid and is directly connected to and at the end of the flow line. A possum belly may also be referred to as a distribution box or flowline trap.\n\nThe purpose of the possum belly is to slow the flow of the drilling fluid (after it has gained momentum from coming down through the flow line) so that it does not shoot off of the shale shakers.\n\nPossum bellies are generally used when bentonite or another form of \"mud\" is being used. During the use of freshwater or brine water, the flow line generally either goes straight to the reserve pit, or into the steel pits.\n\nThe possum belly derives its name from the similarity of its appearance to the underbelly of the female possum. Each of the chambers of the possum belly resemble an elongated teat similar to the ones found on female possums.\n\nSee Drilling rig (petroleum) for a diagram.\n"}
{"id": "21547235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21547235", "title": "Racing identity", "text": "Racing identity\n\nRacing identity, expanded to prominent or colourful racing identity, is a euphemism used by journalists (particularly in Australia) for a person who is believed to be involved in criminal activity, and who frequents horse or dog racing venues or is involved in some aspect of the racing industry.\n\nThe term gained wide currency in the Australian media in the late 20th century due to a combination of legal and constitutional factors, including:\n\n\nThe association between organised crime and racing (especially horse racing) in Australia developed largely because of the conservative nature of Australian law and government in regard to gambling. In the decades before the recent liberalisation of the laws governing poker machines, casinos and other forms of gambling, betting on horse and greyhound racing was the only legal outlet for gambling in Australia (other than government-run lotteries).\n\nAs a result, horse racing (and to a lesser extent dog racing) provided one of the few legitimate means by which those involved in organised crime could easily 'launder' money earned from their illegal enterprises. Because betting with on-track bookmakers could not be easily scrutinised by law enforcement or taxation authorities, it was relatively easy for such people to claim that any large sums of money they might possess had been won on a lucky bet, and it was extremely difficult for the authorities to prove otherwise.\n\nAn example of this phenomenon can be found in the case of the former NSW Premier Robert Askin, who is widely reputed to have been at the centre of an extensive network of organised crime and official corruption, and who allegedly received tens of thousands of dollars each month in bribes from major Sydney underworld figures. Despite the fact that official inquiries uncovered assets far in excess of what he could have reasonably earned through investments and stock trading, Askin always claimed that his wealth was because he was a \"canny punter\" (i.e. a shrewd gambler).\n\nLikewise, because on-track betting transactions could not be monitored as they could in the government-run betting agencies (e.g. the TAB), major racecourses became favoured meeting places for many of the people who are now generally accepted to have been leading figures in Australian organised crime, such as George Freeman, Perc Galea and Lenny McPherson.\n"}
{"id": "844984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844984", "title": "Ring name", "text": "Ring name\n\nA ring name is a name assumed for professional purposes by a professional wrestler, martial artist or boxer.\n\nRing names developed as a way to allow wrestling performers to hide their true identities from the wrestling fanbase and thus keep kayfabe intact, or because the wrestler or the management consider the athlete's real name unattractive, dull, difficult to pronounce or spell, amusing for the wrong reasons, or projecting the wrong image. Since the advent of the Internet, it is now relatively easy to discover the real name of a wrestler, but it was far more difficult in the past. \n\nSome examples of ring names are Michael Shawn Hickenbottom becoming Shawn Michaels, Roderick George Toombs becoming \"Rowdy\" Roddy Piper, Michael Sean Coulthard becoming Michael Cole, Dwayne Johnson becoming The Rock and Chris Irvine becoming Chris Jericho.\n\nA number of wrestlers have adopted their real name or a variation thereof for their in-ring persona, sometimes modifying the spelling of their real name to better fit their gimmick, such as David Bautista becoming Batista (now credited as Dave Bautista in his current acting career), Patricia Stratigeas becoming Trish Stratus and Richard Fliehr becoming Ric Flair. Others simply use part of their name, such as Bill Goldberg using Goldberg, Kenny Dykstra using Kenny, Nicole Garcia-Colace using Nikki Bella, and Mike Mizanin using The Miz, an abbreviation of his surname. Many female wrestlers go solely by their first name as well. Many also use a nickname in addition to their real name for marketability and other reasons\n\nSome (mostly independent) wrestlers, such as Nigel McGuinness, still go to great lengths to ensure that their real names are not publicly known. Professional wrestlers are often referred to by their contemporaries by their ring name. In interviews, Bret Hart has regularly referred to Mark Calaway, Curt Hennig, and Kevin Nash by their ring names (The Undertaker, Mr. Perfect, and Diesel).\n\nRing names are often trademarked by the promotion that creates a character or gimmick for a performer. It is common to see one performer use a variety of ring names throughout his career, even if his overall persona or gimmick remains similar. That is especially true in WWE, which has largely forced most wrestlers that have debuted since 2006 to use a WWE-owned ring name instead of a ring name that they used on the independent circuit or, such as with Bryan Danielson and a few others, their real name. One notable recent exception was made for David Otunga because of his then-current real-life relationship with singer Jennifer Hudson, which gave WWE some mainstream exposure. For example, Senshi used a ring name specifically for his second TNA stint so that he would continue to hold on to his original ring name, Low Ki, used elsewhere. Another example is the team known as The Dudley Boyz in ECW and WWE and Team 3D elsewhere. WWE trademarked the \"Dudley Boyz\" name, leading them to have to change their name when they went to TNA. The members' names (Bubba Ray Dudley, D-Von Dudley, and Spike Dudley) were also trademarked by WWE, forcing them to have to change their names to Brother Ray, Brother Devon, and Brother Runt. (Bubba Ray and D-Von later returned to WWE and reassumed the \"Dudley Boyz\" name; both have since retired from in-ring action, with D-Von now working as a WWE producer.) WWE partially repealed the policy in 2015, allowing wrestlers who were well-known in other promotions such as Samoa Joe, A.J. Styles, Shinsuke Nakamura, Austin Aries, Karl Anderson, Bobby Roode, and Eric Young to use their long-standing ring names (or in Nakamura and Roode's case, their real name) as well as wrestlers who sign \"Tier 2\" NXT contracts such as Johnny Gargano and Tommaso Ciampa who wrestle both on NXT and the independent circuit to keep their ring names or (in Gargano's case) their real name. (Gargano and Ciampa have since signed exclusive WWE contracts.) \"In-house\" WWE wrestlers still use WWE-owned ring names.\n\nIn rare cases, the rights to a wrestler's ring name may be owned by a company with little or no connection to professional wrestling, such as Marvel Comics' ownership of the name Hulk Hogan until early 2003, which was due to Hogan being advertised as The Incredible Hulk Hogan early in his career, while Marvel owned the trademark for their comic book character \"The Incredible Hulk\". Sometimes a wrestler will buy the rights to their own ring name; for example, Steve Borden owns the rights to the ring name Sting. Andrew Martin, formerly known as Test, took this one step further and legally changed his name to Andrew \"Test\" Martin. Jim Hellwig, known as The Ultimate Warrior, had his name legally changed to simply \"Warrior\".\n\nIn many cases, ring names evolve over time as the wrestler's gimmick changes, either subtly or dramatically. After debuting in WWE as the \"Connecticut Blueblood\", Hunter Hearst Helmsley, Paul Levesque's character morphed into Triple H upon forming D-Generation X. A more drastic change sometimes occurs when a wrestler turns babyface or heel, such as when WCW face Hulk Hogan joined the nWo as Hollywood Hogan. Hogan's villainous new attitude was enhanced by changing his costume color scheme from Hulkamania's red and yellow to nWo's black and white. Brother Ray adopted the name Bully Ray when he turned heel. When Steve Williams joined the wrestling world in the late 1980s, there was already \"Dr. Death\" Steve Williams. He therefore adopted the name by which he would eventually become famous, Stone Cold Steve Austin or Stunning Steve Austin, which later became his legal name (as Steve Austin, without the \"Stone Cold\" portion).\n\nMany boxers have used ring names as their mode of identification during their professional boxing careers, particularly more so during the late 19th century and the early 20th century. Some began with the prefix \"Kid\". Famous examples include:\n\n\nVarious sports martial artists, such as Bill 'Superfoot' Wallace and Benny 'The Jet' Urquidez, have added monikers to their names. Bruce Lee's Chinese name 'little dragon' is, however, more of a screen name due to his acting career.\n\n\nWasp is Lisbeth Salander's kickboxing ringname and hacker handle, and she has a wasp tattoo on her neck.\n\n"}
{"id": "36330021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36330021", "title": "Russian language in Azerbaijan", "text": "Russian language in Azerbaijan\n\nRussian is the first language of more than 150,000 people in Azerbaijan, predominantly ethnic Russians, as well as of Russified Azeris, Ukrainians, Jews, and other minorities. In 1994, 38% of Azerbaijanis spoke Russian fluently as a second language.\n\nRussian was introduced to the South Caucasus following its colonisation in the first half of the nineteenth century after Qajar Iran was forced to cede its Caucasian territories per the Treaty of Gulistan and Treaty of Turkmenchay in 1813 and 1828 respectively to Russia. By 1830 there were schools with Russian as the language of instruction in the cities of Shusha, Baku, Elisabethpol, and Shamakhi; later such schools were established in Quba, Ordubad, and Zagatala. Education in Russian was unpopular among ethnic Azeris until 1887, when Habib bey Mahmudbeyov and Sultan Majid Ganizadeh founded the first Russian-Azeri school in Baku. A secular school with instruction in both Russian and Azeri, its programs were designed to be consistent with cultural values and traditions of the Muslim population. Eventually 240 such schools for both boys and girls, including a women's college founded in 1901, were established prior to the \"Sovietization\" of the South Caucasus. The first Russian-Azeri reference library opened in 1894. In 1918, during the short period of the Azerbaijan's independence, the government declared Azeri the official language, but the use of Russian in government documents was permitted until all civil servants mastered the official language.\n\nIn the Soviet era, the large Russian population of Baku, the quality and prospects of education in Russian, increased access to Russian literature, and other factors contributed to the intensive Russification of the Baku's population. Its direct result by the mid-twentieth century was the formation of a supra-ethnic urban Baku subculture, uniting people of Russian, Azerbaijani, Armenian, Jewish, and other origins and whose special features were being cosmopolitan and Russian-speaking. The widespread use of Russian resulted in a phenomenon of 'Russian-speaking Azeris', i.e. an emergence of an urban community of Azerbaijani-born ethnic Azeris who considered Russian their native language. In 1970, 57,500 Azeris (1.3%) identified Russian as their native language.\n\nThe first works by Azerbaijani authors in Russian were published in the nineteenth century. In 1883 Ahmad bey Javanshir wrote a historical sketch in Russian entitled \"On the Political status of Karabakh Khanate between 1745-1805.\"\n\nIsmayil bey Gutgashynly and Yusif Vazir Chamanzaminli published original works in Russian in the years before the October Revolution. The great propagator of the Russian language among the Azeri population was playwright Mirza Fatali Akhundov, founder of Azeri dramaturgy.\n\nRussian-language Azeri literature continued to develop throughout the Soviet era. Its outstanding representatives are Imran Gasimov, Hasan Seyidbayli, Magsud and Rustam Ibragimbekovs, Natig Rasulzadeh, Alla Akhundova and Chingiz Abdullayev among others.\n\nIn 2003, Russian-Azerbaijani writers \"Ray\" and the Moscow branch of the Writers Union of Azerbaijan was established. In 2004, an association of writers and poets called Commonwealth of Literature was founded.\n\nSince the second half of the nineteenth century, Russian folk and pop songs have appeared in repertoires of Bulbuljan, Muslim Magomayev, Rashid Behbudov Polad Bülbüloğlu, Zeynab Khanlarova, Flora Karimova, the Qaya group and many others. Even after independence from the Soviet Union Azerbaijani singers such as Brilliant Dadashova and Aygun Kazimova have continued to write and perform songs in Russian.\n\nDuring the Soviet era, Azerbaijanfilm produced dozens of feature-length and documentary films in Russian, including famous films like \"The Telephone\", \"Don't Worry, I'm With You\", \"Asif, Vasif, Aghasif\" and \"Exam\". Films in Russian continue to be produced in Azerbaijan in the post-Soviet era.\n\nOutside of the capital, the use of Russian sharply declined after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Similarly, the Russian-speaking subculture in Baku experienced strong decline due to emigration of a large numbers of Russians. Nevertheless, the Russian language continues to feature prominently in the daily life of people in Baku. As in the Soviet times, today the use of Russian in Azerbaijan is concentrated among the intellectuals and \"élite\" of the nation, however, a survey conducted by the Eurasia Heritage Foundation ranked Azerbaijan among former Soviet republics with the worst level of knowledge of Russian, along with Armenia, Georgia, Lithuania, and Tajikistan.\n\nIn 2002, President Heydar Aliyev issued a decree establishing Azerbaijani as the sole language of state operation. Shop signs, forms, and stamps in Russian were replaced with Azeri ones. At the same time compulsory teaching of Russian in schools was made optional.\n\nIn 2007, by decree of the National Broadcasting Council, live broadcasting of Russian TV channels ceased. Officially, this action was undertaken to protect Azerbaijan's national frequencies, which were declared a \"national treasure of the country,\" from the influence of foreign media. It was rumored however, that the main reason was to eliminate the alleged pro-Armenian orientation of Russian TV channels covering the conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh.\n\nIn 2008, the government banned foreign language broadcasts on Azerbaijani television and radio channels, except for a daily newscast in Russian. This measure faced strong opposition from the media and public. Dissenters argued that Azerbaijan still has a large Russian-speaking community, pointing to the success of some Russian-language television shows. Ultimately an exception was made for certain Russian broadcast, but Azeri subtitles were made required.\n\nDespite the significantly strengthened position of the Azerbaijani language in the post-Soviet era, several Russian language newspapers continue to be published in Baku. The Association of Russian Writers is still operating in the country.\n\nThe Russian vernacular spoken in Azerbaijan differs from standard Russian due to the influence of the Azeri spoken throughout the country. At the phonetic level, this influence can be seen specifically in the initial lengthening of vowels, a sharp rise in intonation at the end of a question, and the use of the voiced palato-alveolar affricate. On the lexical level, a number of predominantly slang terms of both Azeri and Russian origin are gradually penetrating into print media.\n\nThere are more than 300 schools across the country, including 18 local high schools and 38 secondary specialized schools that provide instruction in Russian.\n\nOn 13 June 2000, Baku Slavic University was founded in Baku, Azerbaijan on the basis of the Akhundov Pedagogical Institute of Russian Language and Literature.\n\nOn November 24, 2009, Azerbaijan became the first ex-Soviet country to open the Russian Book House store. The opening ceremony was attended by the head of the Presidential Administration of Russia Sergei Naryshkin.\n"}
{"id": "24016060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24016060", "title": "Social interactionist theory", "text": "Social interactionist theory\n\nSocial interactionist theory is an explanation of language development emphasizing the role of social interaction between the developing child and linguistically knowledgeable adults. It is based largely on the socio-cultural theories of Soviet psychologist, Lev Vygotsky.\n\nApproach to language acquisition research has focused on three areas, namely the cognitive approach to language acquisition or the developmental cognitive theory of Jean Piaget, the information processing approach or the information processing model of Brian MacWhinney and Elizabeth Bates (the competition model), and the social interactionist approach or social interaction model of Lev Vygotsky (socio-cultural theory). Although the initial research was essentially descriptive in an attempt to describe language development from the stand point of social development, more recently, researchers have been attempting to explain a few varieties of acquisition in which learner factors lead to differential acquisition by the process of socialization; called the theory of \"social interactionist approach\".\n\nVygotsky, a psychologist and social constructivist, laid the foundation for the interactionists view of language acquisition. According to Vygotsky, social interaction plays an important role in the learning process and proposed the zone of proximal development (ZPD) where learners construct the new language through socially mediated interaction. Vygotsky's social-development theory was adopted and made prominent in the Western world though by Jerome Bruner who laid the foundations of a model of language development in the context of adult-child interaction.\n\nIn contrast to the theoretical positions of behaviourism, the approach to language acquisition emphasizing that children are conditioned to learn language by a stimulus-response pattern with which it is sometimes confused, the social interactionist approaches rests on the premises of a social-cognitive model, emphasizing the child's construction of a social world which then serves as the context of language development.\n\nIt levels an outline of a language acquisition theory in combining of both the traditional behavioral and linguistic position in language production; the essentials of this theory, which differentiate it from a semantically based theory, are that the deepest level of representation specifies the communicative intent primarily and semantic content secondarily. Thus, within this theory the language acquisition can easily be realized differently in emphasizing the role of the environment in producing such differences, as is most often the case in child language and not infrequently the case in adult language. It is incumbent on this model as on any serious attempt to provide a theory of language acquisition, to answer questions about how the model accounts for changes in the child's knowledge with development, and how the model can account for the adult's language system.\n\nAnd as the behavioral approaches view that children as passive beneficiaries of the language training techniques employed by their parents and the linguistic approaches view that children as active language processors of whose maturing neural systems guide development; conversely, social integrationists communication enjoys a rather curious position in contemporary theories of language acquisition as a dynamic system where typically children cue their parents into supplying the appropriate language experience that children require for language advancement. In essence, it turns in supplying of supportive communicative structure that allows efficient communication despite its primitives.\n\nSocial-interactionists, such as Alison Gopnik, Andrew Meltzoff, Anat Ninio, Roy Pea, Catherine Snow, and Ernest Moerk theorize that interaction with adults plays an important part in children's language acquisition . However, some researchers such as Bambi B. Schieffelin and Elinor Ochs claim that the empirical data on which theories of social interactionism are based have often been over-representative of middle class American and European parent-child interactions. Anthropological studies of other human cultures, as well as low-educated Western families, suggests rather that many of the world's children are \"not\" spoken to in a manner documented for educated Western families, but nevertheless grow up to be fully fluent language users. Many researchers now take this into account in their analyses.\n\nIn addition, social interactionists criticize the claim made by Noam Chomsky according to which the linguistic input children are presented with by adults addressing them, is full of errors and discontinuities. Another argument of nativists*** on which interactionists provide contrary empirical evidence is the availability of negative feedback on, and corrections of, children's errors. Moerk (1994) conducted a meta-analysis of 40 studies and found substantial evidence that corrections do indeed play a role. From this work, corrections are not only abundant but contingent on the mistakes of the child. (see behavior analysis of child development).\n\n"}
{"id": "2890818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2890818", "title": "T-rules", "text": "T-rules\n\nThe T(ea)-rules (\"T(hee)-regels\"), are a set of conjugation rules used in the Dutch language to determine whether the second person singular/plural and the first and third person singular of a verb end in \"-t\" or not. These rules are related to the 't kofschip-rule, which is used to determine the verb end for past tenses and participles. The combined sets of rules are also known as the d/t-rules.\n\n\nHowever the actual rules for Dutch conjugation are more complex.\n\nThe pronoun \"jij/je\" only makes the verb end in \"-t\" if it precedes the verb, and if the verb is in the present simple or present perfect indicative. Modal verbs and the future/conditional auxiliary \"zullen\" allow forms with and without \"-t\" (but the subject pronoun must still precede the verb for the \"-t\" form to appear). This pronoun is informal and can be used in written language.\n\n\nIf the radical of the verb end in \"-t\", the \"jij\" form always ends in \"-t\":\n\n\nWith the verbs \"houden\", \"rijden\" and verbs derived from them, the \"-d\" of the radical can be dropped if it is not followed by \"-t\". In a formal context, usually the \"d\" is not dropped.\n\n\nThe pronoun \"jullie\" always makes the verb end in \"-en\". The ending \"-t\" is also possible, but this form is archaic (although it does survive in Brabantian dialect).\n\n\nThe pronoun \"gij/ge\" makes the verb end in \"-t\", whether the pronoun precede or follow the verb. Modal and auxiliary forms also end in \"-t\". This pronoun is used informally in spoken language in North Brabant and Flanders only. Its written form only appears in archaic texts where it compares to English \"thou\".\n\n\nNo extra \"-t\" is added if the verb stem already end in \"-t\". The ending \"-t\" is added after \"-d\":\n\nIn the subjunctive and in the regular past, the \"-t\" survives only as an archaic form:\n\n\nIn informal speech (only in Flanders/Brabant), the verb ends in \"-de\" or \"-te\", if \"gij\" follows the verb. In very informal speech (only in Flanders/Brabant), the subject is dropped altogether. The \"-e\" ending after the stem is a remnant of the Middle Dutch pronoun \"di\" which, over the centuries, developed into a clitic.\n\n\nThe rules for third person singular subjects and the pronoun \"u\"/\"U\" (2nd person sing./plur.) are the same: the verb takes \"-t\" in the simple present and present perfect tense of the indicative. Modal verbs and \"zullen\" (will) have forms without \"-t\". This pronoun is formal and is used in both written and spoken language. The spelling with a capital \"U\" is very formal and is used for royalty or deities.\n\n\nThe first person singular for non-modal verb is identical to the radical. The form can end in a vowel or in a consonant (including \"t\"). For the verbs \"houden\", \"rijden\" and their derivatives, the \"-d\" of the radical can be dropped in spoken language. In a formal context, the \"d\" is not dropped.\n\n"}
{"id": "33191937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33191937", "title": "Tagbo language", "text": "Tagbo language\n\nTagbo (Tagbu, Tagba) is a Ubangian language of Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n"}
{"id": "2964268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2964268", "title": "Thoughtography", "text": "Thoughtography\n\nThoughtography, also called projected thermography, psychic photography, nengraphy, and nensha , is the claimed ability to \"burn\" images from one's mind onto surfaces such as photographic film by psychic means. While the term \"thoughtography\" has been in the English lexicon since 1913, the more recent term \"projected thermography\" is a neologism popularized in the 2002 U.S. film \"The Ring\", a remake of the 1998 Japanese horror film \"Ring\".\n\nThoughtography (also known as psychic photography) first emerged in the late 19th century due to the influence of spirit photography. Thoughtography has no connection with Spiritualism, which distinguishes it from spirit photography. One of the first books to mention \"psychic photography\" was the book \"The New Photography\" (1896) by Arthur Brunel Chatwood. In the book Chatwood described experiments where the \"image of objects on the retina of the human eye might so affect it that a photograph could be produced by looking at a sensitive plate.\" The book was criticized in a review in \"Nature\".\n\nThe psychical researcher Hereward Carrington in his book \"Modern Psychical Phenomena\" (1919) wrote that many psychic photographs were revealed to be fraudulent produced by substitution and manipulation of the plates, double-printing, double-exposure and chemical screens. However, Carrington also stated he believed some of the photographs to be genuine. The term \"thoughtography\" was first introduced at the beginning of the twentieth century by Tomokichi Fukurai.\n\nSkeptics, among them professional photographers, consider psychic photographs to be faked or the result of flaws in the camera or film, exposures, film-processing errors, lens flares, flash reflections or chemical reactions.\n\nAround 1910, during a period of interest in Spiritualism in Japan, Tomokichi Fukurai, an assistant professor of psychology at Tokyo University began pursuing parapsychology experiments using Chizuko Mifune, Ikuko Nagao, and others as subjects. Fukurai published results of experiments with Nagao that alleged she was capable of telepathically imprinting images on photo plates, which he called \"nensha.\" When journalists found irregularities, Nagao's credibility was attacked, and there was speculation that her later illness and death was caused by distress over criticism. In 1913, Fukurai published \"Clairvoyance and Thoughtography\". The book was criticized for a lack of scientific approach and his work disparaged by the university and his colleagues. Fukurai eventually resigned in 1913.\n\n In the early 20th century the psychical researcher Albert von Schrenck-Notzing investigated the medium Eva Carrière and claimed her ectoplasm \"materializations\" were the result of \"ideoplasty\" in which the medium could form images onto ectoplasm from her mind. Schrenck-Notzing published the book \"Phenomena of Materialisation\" (1923) which included photographs of the ectoplasm. Critics pointed out the photographs of the ectoplasm revealed marks of magazine cut-outs, pins and a piece of string. Schrenck-Notzing admitted that on several occasions Carrière deceptively smuggled pins into the séance room. The magician Carlos María de Heredia replicated the ectoplasm of Carrière using a comb, gauze and a handkerchief.\n\nDonald West wrote that the ectoplasm of Carrière was fake and was made of cut-out paper faces from newspapers and magazines on which fold marks could sometimes be seen from the photographs. A photograph of Carrière taken from the back of the ectoplasm face revealed it to be made from a magazine cut out with the letters \"Le Miro\". The two-dimensional face had been clipped from the French magazine Le Miroir. Back issues of the magazine also matched some of Carrière's ectoplasm faces. Cut out faces that she used included Woodrow Wilson, King Ferdinand of Bulgaria, French president Raymond Poincaré and the actress Mona Delza.\n\nAfter Schrenck-Notzing discovered Carrière had taken her ectoplasm faces from the magazine he defended her by claiming she had read the magazine but her memory had recalled the images and they had materialized into the ectoplasm. Schrenck-Notzing was described as credulous. Joseph McCabe wrote \"In Germany and Austria, Baron von Schrenck-Notzing is the laughing-stock of his medical colleagues.\"\n\nIn the 1960s, it was claimed that Chicago resident Ted Serios, a hotel bellhop in his late forties, used psychokinetic powers to produce images on Polaroid instant film. Serios's psychic claims were bolstered by the endorsement of a Denver-based psychiatrist, Jule Eisenbud (1908–1999), who wrote a book, \"The World of Ted Serios: \"Thoughtographic\" Studies of an Extraordinary Mind\" (1967), arguing that Serios's purported psychic abilities were genuine. However, professional photographers and skeptics found that Serios was employing simple sleight of hand.\n\nMasuaki Kiyota is a Japanese psychic who was claimed to possess psychokinetic powers. Kiyota was tested by investigators in London by Granada Television and the results were negative. It was discovered that with tight controls, Kiyota was unable to project mental images onto film. He could only achieve success when he had the film in his possession without any control for at least 2 hours.\n\nAccording to magician and skeptic James Randi \"Kiyota's Polaroid photos were apparently produced by preexposing the film, since it was noted that he made great efforts to obtain a film pack and spend time with it in private.\" In a 1984 television interview, Kiyota confessed to fraud.\n\nIn 1995, famed psychic Uri Geller began to use a 35 mm camera in his performances. The lens cap left on the camera, Geller would take pictures of his forehead and then have the pictures developed. Geller claimed that subsequent images had come directly from his mind. James Randi claimed Geller had performed the trick by using a \"handheld optical device\" or by taking photographs on already exposed film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46467205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46467205", "title": "Upper Sorbian phonology", "text": "Upper Sorbian phonology\n\nThis article is about the phonology and phonetics of the Upper Sorbian language.\n\nThe vowel inventory of Upper Sorbian is exactly the same as that of Lower Sorbian. It is also very similar to the vowel inventory of Slovene.\n\n\n\nUpper Sorbian has both final devoicing and regressive voicing assimilation, both word-internal and across word boundaries. In the latter context, is voiced to . Regressive voicing assimilation does not occur before sonorants and .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34439819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34439819", "title": "Valeriu Munteanu (philologist)", "text": "Valeriu Munteanu (philologist)\n\nValeriu Munteanu (October 4, 1921 – December 20, 1999) was a Romanian philologist, lexicographer, and translator.\n\nAfter studying law in Sibiu and Cluj, he studied philology in Bucharest, and Nordic languages in Uppsala, Sweden. \n\nHe translated into Romanian writers such as Hjalmar Bergman, August Strindberg, Artur Lundkvist, Hans Scherfig, Herman Bang, Sigrid Undset, Knut Hamsun.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41088629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41088629", "title": "Vyasaraya Ballal", "text": "Vyasaraya Ballal\n\nVyasaraya Ballal (Kannada:ವ್ಯಾಸರಾಯ ಬಲ್ಲಾಳ) (1 December 1923 – 30 January 2008) was a major writer in the Kannada language and Sahitya Academy Award winner for his novel \"Bandaya in 1986. His Novels Hemanthagaana, Uttarayana and Bandaya are the major contributions to the Kannada Novel.\"\n\nBallal was extremely sensitive in his portrayal of women in his works such as Anurakte, Vatsalya Patha, Hemanthagana, and Uttarayana. A critical analysis on Ballal’s novels titled Ballalara Kadambarigalu was brought out by MGM College under the stewardship of its then principal and writer Ku. Shi. Haridasa Bhat.\n\n\"Yet some questions still remain a mystery. Why did Ballal not choose to lead his retired life in Udupi, where he was born? Why was Ballal not chosen as president of the 74th All India Kannada Sahitya Sammelan held in Udupi? These questions will torment us for a long time,\" Prof. Hiriyadka said.\n\nVyasaraya Ballal had started his literary life by his contributions to a Kannada journal Nudi started in Mumbai. In fact his first novel Anurakte had appeared as a serial in Nudi. It was later published as a novel.\n\nVyasaraya Ballal and other friends in Mumbai, who were filled with ideas of securing freedom for the country and socialism,Importance of Kannada\n\nBallal writings also focussed on the importance of Kannada medium and Kannada learning.\n\nBallal’s candidature for the post of the president of 74th All India Kannada Sahitya Sammelan in Udupi was not pursued vigorously.\n\nBallal was a man of few words. He was a sensitive person and this sensitivity was reflected in his works. Ballal brought forth beautifully the working of trade unions in his novel Bandaya.\n\nVyasaraya Ballala was known for his revolutionary thinking and had written more than 25 books including novels, 100 short stories, politics, two plays and children's books. His novel 'Uttarayana' is acclaimed as his best work, while two other books 'Bandaya' and 'Manjari' received wide critical acclaim. 'Bandaya' brought him Kendra Sahitya Akademi award. The writer, who lived in Mumbai for five decades, had contributed short stories for Akashvani-Mumbai. He also served as the editor of 'Nudi', a Kannada weekly published by Kamaladevi Chattopadhay. He was a prominent member of Karnataka Sangha in Mumbai and also contributed to the columns in the dailies. After his retirement, Mr Ballala settled in Bangalore where he continued to write. Mr Ballala was a disappointed man lately as his name was not considered by the Central Office of Kannada Sahitya Parishat (KSP) for the presidency of 74th 'Akhila Bharatha Kannada Sahitya Sammelan' held in Udupi last month. He was born in Ambalapady near Udupi in 1923. His childhood was tough and after his matriculation he went to Mumbai and worked as a steno in a private company.\n\nMajor Works\n\nNovels\n\n\nShort Stories\n\n\nTravelogue\n\n\nLife Experiences \n\nDrama\n\n\nOthers\n\n\nAbout Him/His Literature \n\nAwards and Honours \n"}
{"id": "35299158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35299158", "title": "Zacatepec Chatino", "text": "Zacatepec Chatino\n\n----Zacatepec Chatino is an indigenous Mesoamerican language, one of the Chatino family of the Oto-Manguean languages. It is often referred to as \" ChaqF tinyaJ KichenA tziC Chatino de San Marcos Zacatepec\" or \"Chatino de Zacatepec\" as it is distinct from other Chatino languages in the region. Zacatepec Chatino is part of the Eastern Chatino languages. It is spoken in the town of San Marcos Zacatepec, a town of approximately 1,000 people and inhabited by an indigenous group known as the Chatino people. The language was once spoken in the village of Juquila, but is now virtually extinct with two surviving speakers in the area (Villard 2015).\n\nZacatepec Chatino is a highly endangered language as it is spoken by about 300 Chatino's whom are all above 50 years of age.\n\nChatino refers to three closely related languages; the three being Eastern Chatino, Tataltepec Chatino, and Zenzontepec Chatino of the Zapotecan branch. Zacatepec Chatino falls under the Eastern Chatino branch.\n\nZacatepec Chatino, being part of Chatino language family, has shallow orthography. It is more conservative then its Chatino counterparts as it conserves the penultimate syllables of disyllabic roots.\n\nLittle is known about the history of Zacatepec Chatino but according to Stéphanie Villard who studied and presented her thesis on the language, it has been on a decline for the past 40 years as natives continue to expand their ties with non-Chatino communities. With the help of the Zacatepec Chatino Documentation Project, Villard has uncovered some of the remnants of the language with the help of many natives from the area. The project includes visits in 2005 and 2006 by Hilaria Cruz, Emiliana Cruz, Megan Crowhurst as well as preliminary analysis of tones in H. Cruz y Woodbury in 2006. It also includes intensive work since 2006 by Stéphanie Villard, including 150 hours of audio, a sketch, papers on sandhi and inflection and grammar as well as short visits concentrating on textual documentation, tone, & morphology\n\nThe major language spoken in Zapotec Chatino and its surrounding regions is Spanish so it is no surprise that many foreigners are coming to San Marcos Zacatepec speaking Spanish and not Chatino.\n\nAlthough Spanish is the official language in San Marcos Zacatepec, Oaxaca, many government officials communicate in Zacatepec Chatino. A study conducted by Villard revealed that majority of the younger population are monolingual Spanish speakers.\n\nZacatepec Chatino is only spoken in San Marcos Zacatepec, Oaxaca in the Sierra Madre region of Mexico.\n\nSince Zacatepec Chatino is unintelligible with other Chatino varieties, it does not have any other dialects or varieties associated with it.\n\nVillard (2015) reports that Zacatepec Chatino presents voicing of non-continuant after nasals, vowel harmony, and contrastive nasal vowels. It also lacks labial phonemes and has 4 levels of pitch ranging from low to high. It also presents 15 specific tonal sequences that can define 15 Lexical classes.\n\nIts phonology presents a rich tonal system with a large inventory of phonemic tonal sequences as well as intricate sandhi patterns.\n\nThe vowels in Zacatepec Chatino are and have several rules they have to follow which are juxtaposed with the nasal vowels among each other.\n\n/a/ does not present any restrictions in its distribution. /a/ is pronounced [a] and may be slightly nasalized. Here are some examples:\n\n\"nǎ [na\"] thing\n\n\"pa̋[pa\"] dad\n\n\"kwā ́[kwa]\" already\n\n\"mpaà ̋ [mba:\"] godfather\n\n\"Wyàa̋[bja:]\" Santos Reyes Nopala, Oaxaca\n\n\"chǎʔ [t͜ʃaʔ\"] word\n\n/e/ does not occur after the nasal stop /n/. /e/ can be long in final syllables and short in non final syllables. Here are some examples:\n\n\"traʔwē ́ [traʔwe]\" middle\n\n\"tikèʔ  [tikeʔ\"] aroused\n\n\"siyěʔ [sijeʔ]\" dressed up\n\n\"tsaʔwě [t͜saʔwe]\" good\n\n\"nkyaseʔ [ŋgjaseʔ]\" it got deflated\n\nn\"kyanè   [ŋgjanɛ\"]̃ he/she sprayed it\n\n\"nkyaʔwè  [ŋgjaʔwe]\" it got split\n\n/i/ occurs in final as well as non-final syllables of roots followed by a /?/. It is slightly restricted in its distribution. Here are some examples:\n\n\"pi̋[pi]\" poult\n\n\"pìi̋[pi:]\" fair skinned, pale\n\n\"lyiʔ̋ [li̻ ʔ]\" parrot\n\n\"mpiʔ̋ [mbiʔ]\" dram\n\n\"kiiʔ [ki:ʔ]\" fire\n\nThe distribution of /u/ is highly restricted. /u/ in monosyllabic words is rare. /u/ can be long in final syllables but is always short in non-final syllables. Here are some examples:\n\nxǔʔ [ʃuʔ] oldster\n\nchūú [t͜ʃu:] Jesus\n\nsùntū ̋[suntu] issue (from Spa. asunto)\n\nbùrrū ̋[bur̥u] donkey (from Spa. burro)\n\nkuʔwǐ [kuʔwi] drunk\n\nsuti [suti] his/her father\n\ntuʔwa [tuʔwa] his/her mouth\n\n/o/ is restricted as well. It does not occur after the nasal stop /n/ and similarly to /u/, /o/ does not occur after the labiovelars /k/ or /w/. Here are some examples\n\nTyò ̋ [to̻ ] Pedro\n\nkōō [ko:] fog\n\nyo [jo] guy\n\nyoo [jo:] soil\n\npìxō ̋[piʃo] peso\n\nSan Marcos Zacatepec is considered a head-marking language as it is synthetic and analytic. Some functions are the language are mixed; for example, person marking can be signaled through tone contrast and/or nasalization, encliticization, or also by a separate word.\n\nIts verbal morphology features a large inventory of allomorphs of its aspectual morphemes, which makes its verbal paradigms appear extremely irregular.\n\nThe sequence classes are “morphological”—some are specialized by part-of-speech, by inflectional category, or loan provenance, while others are open ended and general.\n\nThe basic word order is VSO but there are other orders present. Here is an example of the Chatino Language VSO:\n\nThis would say \"The lay dog gave a sweetbread to the coyote\".\n\nSome morphemes, such as the marker \"?in\" have various functions in the grammar as it is a dative marker. The dative marker introduces human objects, indirect objects, and also marks alienable possession.\n\nCompounding patterns play an important role and word formation. the use of combinations of 'light nouns’ or semantically poor nouns and semantically rich adjectives (or nouns, although very rarely) is very prolific in the language. Villard provides us with an example of such formations: the light noun \"nu\" ‘the one who’, often occurs as a head noun in noun phrases, as in \"nu kīʔyó 'man\"' (the one who is male) or \"nu kunāʔán\" 'woman' (the one who is female).\n\nThere are 15 lexical tone classes defined by 15 tone sequences. The sequences pertain to any noncompound stem but have different realizations depending on the number of moras in the stem. The sequence classes are “morphological”—some are specialized by part-of-speech, by inflectional category, or loan provenance, while others are open ended and general. Sequence class identity—not tones—determines tonal ablaut behavior and tonal inflectional classes. The progressive aspect is associated with an M tone which generates composed sequences beyond the original 15 \n\n\n\n"}
