{"id": "8876803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8876803", "title": "Allen Stanford", "text": "Allen Stanford\n\nRobert Allen Stanford (born March 24, 1950) is an American former financier and sponsor of professional sports who is serving a 110-year federal prison sentence, having been convicted of charges that his investment company was a massive Ponzi scheme and fraud. Stanford was the chairman of the now defunct Stanford Financial Group of Companies. A fifth-generation Texan who once resided in Saint Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands, he holds dual citizenship, being a citizen of Antigua and Barbuda and the United States. He contributed millions of dollars to politicians in both Antigua and the United States amongst other countries.\n\nIn early 2009, Stanford became the subject of several fraud investigations, and on February 17, 2009, was charged by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with fraud and multiple violations of U.S. securities laws for alleged \"massive ongoing fraud\" involving $7 billion in certificates of deposits. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) raided Stanford's offices in Houston, Texas; Memphis, Tennessee; and Tupelo, Mississippi. On February 27, 2009, the SEC amended its complaint to describe the alleged fraud as a \"massive Ponzi scheme\". He \"voluntarily surrendered\" to authorities on June 18, 2009. On March 6, 2012, Stanford was convicted on all charges except a single count of wire fraud. He is serving his 110-year sentence at United States Penitentiary, Coleman in Coleman, Florida. In September 2014, Stanford appealed his conviction; however, the appeals court rejected the appeal in October 2015.\n\nStanford grew up in Mexia, Texas. His father, James Stanford, is former mayor of Mexia and a member of the Board of Directors of Stanford Financial Group. His mother, Sammie (née Conn), is a nurse. After his parents divorced in 1959, Stanford and his brother went to live with their mother. Both of his parents remarried.\n\nStanford graduated from Eastern Hills High School in Fort Worth, Texas. In 1974, Stanford graduated from Baylor University in Waco, Texas, earning a BA degree in finance.\n\nStanford started in business in Waco, Texas, opening a bodybuilding gym that failed. His first success in business came from speculating in real estate in Houston after the Texas oil bubble burst in the early 1980s; his father was his partner in this venture. The men made a fortune in the 1980s, buying up depressed real estate and selling it years later as the market recovered. After his father retired in 1993, Stanford took control of the company, which by then had 500 employees.\n\nStanford moved to the Caribbean in the 1980s, first to Montserrat, then to Antigua. With Stanford Finance, he started Guardian International Bank on the island of Montserrat in 1985; he moved it to Antigua during a British crackdown on Montserrat's offshore-banking industry in the 1980s, renaming it Stanford International Bank, an affiliate of Stanford Financial.\n\nEarly in 2007, Stanford and Baldwin Spencer, prime minister of Antigua and Barbuda and formerly an ally, began verbally feuding in public.\n\nIn 2009, Antigua's Financial Services Regulatory Commission named a British firm, Vantis Business Recovery Services, the receiver for Stanford International Bank and Stanford Trust Company, the Associated Press reported.\n\nReports surfaced in early February 2009 that the SEC, the FBI, the Florida Office of Financial Regulation, and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, a major U.S. private-sector oversight body, were investigating Stanford Financial Group, questioning the consistently higher-than-market returns which Stanford International Bank claimed to make for its depositors. A former executive told SEC officials that Stanford presented hypothetical investment results as actual historical data in sales pitches to clients. Stanford claimed his certificates of deposit were as safe as, or safer than, U.S. government-insured accounts. A leaked cable message from the U.S. Embassy in the Bahamas reported as early as 2006 that companies under Stanford's control were \"rumored to engage in bribery, money laundering, and political manipulation\". The U.S. Ambassador to the Bahamas at the time was reported to have \"managed to stay out of any one-on-one photos with Stanford\" during a charity breakfast event.\n\nFederal agents raided the offices of Stanford Financial on February 17, 2009, and treated it as \"a kind of crime scene—cautioning people not to leave fingerprints\". The SEC charged Stanford with \"massive ongoing fraud\" centered on an eight-billion-dollar investment scheme. Stanford's assets, along with those of his companies, were frozen and placed into receivership by a U.S. federal judge, who ordered Stanford to surrender his passport.\n\nCNBC reported that Stanford tried to flee the country on the same day as the raids on his headquarters. He contacted a private jet owner and attempted to pay for a flight to Antigua with a credit card, but was refused because the company would accept only a wire transfer.\n\nOn February 19, acting at the request of the SEC, FBI agents located Stanford at his girlfriend's house near Fredericksburg, Virginia, and served him with civil legal papers filed by the SEC. The SEC often files civil charges before criminal charges are filed. Stanford was arrested on June 18, 2009. He surrendered his passport to federal prosecutors, and hired criminal defense lawyer Brendan Sullivan, who had represented Oliver North.\n\nVarious governments took over Stanford's business operations. The Eastern Caribbean Central Bank announced that it had taken over the local operations of the Bank of Antigua, which was renamed the Eastern Caribbean Amalgamated Bank. The Venezuelan government took over Stanford Bank Venezuela, the branch of Stanford's bank in that nation.\n\nOn February 27, 2009, the SEC said that Stanford and his accomplices operated a \"massive Ponzi scheme\", misappropriating billions of dollars of investors' money and falsifying the Stanford International Bank's records to hide their fraud. \"Stanford International Bank's financial statements, including its investment income, are fictional,\" the SEC said. In an interview on April 20 at the law offices of Houston criminal attorney Dick DeGuerin, Stanford denied any wrongdoing. His companies had been well-run, he claimed, until the SEC \"disembowelled\" them.\n\nOn June 18, 2009, Stanford was taken into custody by FBI agents. On June 25, 2009, he appeared in a Houston court and pleaded not guilty to charges of fraud, conspiracy, and obstruction. On August 27, 2009, Stanford was admitted into the Conroe, Texas, Regional Medical Center. He had complained of a racing heart while being transported from the private prison in Huntsville, Texas, to the Federal Courthouse in Houston to attend a hearing concerning his attorney, Dick DeGuerin, who had asked the court for permission to withdraw from Stanford's case. Robert Luskin of Patton-Boggs, which had been representing Stanford in a simultaneous civil case, was to be lead counsel.\n\nOn September 26, 2009, Stanford was hospitalized due to injuries sustained while being severely beaten by another inmate at the Cornell Companies-operated, Joe Corley Detention Facility in Conroe. His injuries were described as non-life-threatening.\n\nIn March 2010, SEC Inspector General H. David Kotz issued a report finding the SEC had failed to uncover the Ponzi scheme perpetrated by Stanford. Because of concerns raised by former SEC Chief Investigator David P. Weber of improper conduct by Kotz, Inspector General David C. Williams of the U.S. Postal Service was brought in to conduct an independent review. The Williams report found that Kotz \"appeared to have a conflict of interest\" because he had a personal relationship with an attorney representing Stanford's victims.\n\nStanford's trial date was set for January 2011. The district judge deemed that Stanford's anti-anxiety drug addiction impaired his judgment and therefore made him unfit to stand trial. Stanford was incarcerated at the Federal Detention Center, Houston. In February 2011 Stanford issued a counter-claim of $7.2 billion of damages against the FBI and the SEC. In May, prosecutors dropped seven charges against Stanford, leaving 14 charges ongoing.\n\nBy November 5, 2011, Stanford was being held at the Federal Medical Center at the Federal Correctional Complex, Butner in Butner, North Carolina. His attorneys claimed that Stanford was unfit to stand trial due to amnesia resulting from his sustained injuries. On December 22, 2011, he was found competent to stand trial by U.S. District Judge David Hittner.\n\nThe trial began on January 24, 2012, at the Houston Federal Courthouse, Judge Hittner presiding. On March 6, after three hours of deliberation, the jury convicted him of masterminding a Ponzi scheme. Prosecutors sought a sentence of 230 years in prison—the maximum permitted by law, and 80 years more than the 150-year sentence handed to Bernard Madoff—calling him \"a ruthless predator\" who \"lived a life steeped in deceit.\" Stanford's lawyers pressed for a sentence of 31 to 44 months and a maximum of 10 years; the former sentence, with credit for time served, could have allowed him to walk out of prison without further jail time. According to Peter Henning of \"The New York Times\", judges have been more willing to impose sentences for financial fraudsters that effectively amount to life sentences in recent years. The extent to which such frauds wreck people's lives, Henning wrote, amounts to \"economic homicide,\" and such outsized sentences are a way to express society's anger at such conduct.\n\nOn June 14, 2012, Stanford was sentenced to 110 years in prison. Although it is less than half of the maximum sentence sought by prosecutors, it ensures he will likely die in prison. Hittner ordered Stanford to forfeit $5.9 billion, saying that Stanford had orchestrated \"one of the most egregious frauds ever presented to a trial jury in federal court.\" At sentencing, Stanford spoke for the first time in the proceedings, denying that he had ever swindled anyone. He blamed his company's failure on \"Gestapo tactics\" by government regulators. He is incarcerated at Coleman II USP in Sumterville, Florida; his earliest possible release is April 17, 2105—when he will be 155 years old.\n\nOn April 26, 2013, federal district judge David Godbey sided with the SEC in its civil suit against Stanford and ordered him to disgorge $6.7 billion ($5.9 billion in illegal profits and $861 million in interest) and pay a $5.9 billion fine. He was banned for life from the securities industry. Godbey wrote that Stanford had carried out the fraud for over a decade \"with a high degree of scienter,\" or knowledge that what he was doing was illegal.\n\nStanford filed a 299-page brief in September 2014 with the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans on his conviction. The appeal was rejected in October 2015.\n\nThe United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, affirming much of a United States Tax Court’s ruling, found that Stanford and his wife, Susan, under-reported their 1990 federal taxes by $423,531.36. Public records suggest that Stanford may owe hundreds of millions of dollars in federal taxes. There are four federal tax liens from 2007 and 2008 against Stanford, totaling more than $212 million.\n\nThe FBI and other agencies have been conducting an ongoing investigation of Stanford since 2008 for possible involvement in money laundering for Mexico's Gulf Cartel. According to \"The New York Times\", Stanford once held a Cook Islands trust called \"Baby Mama\", with his mistress and two children as beneficiaries. The trust protected proceeds deposited into Swiss and Isle of Man bank accounts from the sale of a $2.5 million Florida home.\n\nIn 2001, Stanford said that his great-great-great grandfather was a relative of Leland Stanford, the founder of Stanford University. He funded the restoration of Leland Stanford's mansion in Sacramento, California, in an effort \"to help preserve an important piece of Stanford family history,\" and hired genealogists to prove he was a member of the Leland Stanford family. A university spokesperson said \"We are not aware of any genealogical relationship between Allen Stanford and Leland Stanford\". In 2008 the university filed a trademark infringement suit against Stanford, claiming the school's name was being used \"in a way that creates public confusion\" and is \"injurious\".\n\nA February 2009 \"Houston Chronicle\" article described Stanford as \"the leading benefactor, promoter, employer and public persona\" of Antigua and Barbuda. On November 1, 2006, Stanford was appointed Knight Commander of the Order of the Nation (KCN) of Antigua and Barbuda by the Antiguan government. Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex, joined the then Governor-General of Antigua and Barbuda, Sir James Carlisle, to make this announcement during the Silver Jubilee Independence Day Celebration. After being knighted, Stanford used the awarded title \"Sir Allen\" often; he was generally referred to as such both by Antiguans and internationally.\n\nIn October 2009, the National Honours Committee of Antigua and Barbuda voted unanimously to strip Stanford of his knighthood. On November 2, 2009, the recommendation was forwarded to the Governor-General, Dame Louise Lake-Tack. The order to revoke Stanford's knighthood and insignia was approved and was served upon Stanford on April 1, 2010.\n\nStanford created and funded the Stanford 20/20 cricket tournament in the West Indies, for which he built his own ground in Antigua. The first Stanford 20/20 Cricket Tournament was held in July and August 2006. The second tournament took place in January and February 2008 with a global television audience of 300 million. Trinidad and Tobago took first place and with it the US $280,000 Stanford Super Series prize after defeating Middlesex on October 27, 2008.\n\nIn June 2008, Stanford and the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) signed a deal for five Twenty20 internationals between England and a West Indies all-star XI, with a total prize fund of £12.27 million (US$20 million) to be awarded to the team that won the Championship. It was the largest prize ever offered to a team for a single tournament. This was in jeopardy after a row with Digicel, the sponsors of the West Indies cricket team, who were unhappy about sponsorship of the event. Eventually, the dispute was sorted out and the championship was won by Stanford Superstars, who defeated the England team by 10 wickets.\n\nOn February 17, 2009, when news of the fraud investigation became public, the ECB and WICB withdrew from talks with Stanford on sponsorship. On February 20, 2009, the ECB announced it had severed its ties with Stanford and cancelled all contracts with him.\n\nStanford owned two newspaper businesses in Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis, both called \"The Sun\". Following the scandal, both newspapers put workers on notice that their full operations would cease in April 2010.\n\nStanford owned Maiden Island in Antigua and Barbuda.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26754165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26754165", "title": "Ambivalent sexism", "text": "Ambivalent sexism\n\nAmbivalent sexism is a theoretical framework which posits that sexism has two sub-components: \"hostile sexism\" and \"benevolent sexism\". Hostile sexism reflects overtly negative evaluations and stereotypes about a gender (e.g., the ideas that women are incompetent and inferior to men). Benevolent sexism represents evaluations of gender that may appear subjectively positive (subjective to the person who is evaluating), but are actually damaging to people and gender equality more broadly (e.g., the ideas that women need to be protected by men). For the most part, psychologists have studied hostile forms of sexism. However, theorists using the theoretical framework of ambivalent sexism have found extensive empirical evidence for both varieties. The theory has largely been developed by social psychologists Peter Glick and Susan Fiske.\n\nSexism, like other forms of prejudice, is a type of bias about a group of people. Sexism is founded in conceptualizations of one gender as being superior or having higher status than another gender in a particular domain, which can lead to discrimination. Research has indicated that stereotypes about socially appropriate gender roles for women and men are a driving factor in the endorsement of sexism. Patriarchy, defined as men's power and \"structural control over political, legal, economic, and religious institutions\", is a feature of sexism and is related to hostile attitudes toward women. Anthropological research suggests that patriarchy is pervasive among the majority of human societies, such that women have been systematically discriminated against, oppressed, and marginalized by men throughout history. Sexism maintains patriarchal social structures and reinforces prescribed gender roles.\n\nTypically, sexism is thought of as hostility toward women, perpetrated by men. However, both women and men can (and often do) endorse sexist beliefs about each other and themselves. In other words, men can express sexist attitudes about women or men, and women can express sexist attitudes about men or women. While sexism has historically disadvantaged women, there are negative consequences of sexism for both men and women. Rigid gender roles can be damaging to women and men alike, restricting opportunities and promoting gender-based prejudice. For the purposes of this article, sexism toward women will be the focus, as it is most relevant to the definition and study of ambivalent sexism.\n\nAmbivalent sexism offers a multidimensional reconceptualization of the traditional view of sexism to include both subjectively benevolent and hostile attitudes toward women. The word \"ambivalent\" is used to describe the construal of sexism because this type of bias includes both negative and positive evaluations of women. The addition of a benevolent feature to definitions of gender-based prejudice was a major contribution to the study of sexism and field of psychology. Traditional conceptualizations of sexism focused almost entirely on overt hostility toward women. While historians, anthropologists, feminist scholars, and psychologists had previously suggested that sexism involves positive and negative evaluations of women, the majority of empirical research at the time evaluated only hostile expressions of sexism. The introduction of the Ambivalent Sexism Inventory (ASI)—a scale which was developed by Glick and Fiske in 1996, and which assesses ambivalently sexist attitudes—marks a shift in how sexism is construed and scientifically measured. Glick and Fiske created the ASI to address a proposed deficiency in the measurement of sexism at the time. They argue that previous scales assessing sexism do not adequately capture the ambivalent nature of gender-based prejudice toward women.\n\nGlick and Fiske assert that hostile and benevolent sexism complement each other in reinforcing traditional gender roles and preserving patriarchal social structures of women as subordinate to men. Both forms of sexism share the assumption that women are inferior and restrict women to a lower social status. Hostile sexism reflects misogyny (i.e., the hatred of women by men) and is expressed through blatant negative evaluations of women. Examples of hostile sexism include beliefs about women as incompetent, unintelligent, overly emotional, and sexually manipulative. Benevolent sexism reflects evaluations of women that are seemingly positive. Examples of benevolently sexist attitudes include the reverence of women in wife, mother, and child caretaker roles, the romanticizing of women as objects of heterosexual affection, and the belief that men have a duty to protect women. While benevolent sexism may not appear to be harmful to women on the surface, these beliefs are extremely caustic to gender equity and restrict women's personal, professional, political, and social opportunities. This is because these seemingly positive evaluations imply that (a) women are weak and need to be protected, (b) women should not deviate from traditional gender roles as mothers and caretakers, and (c) women should be idolized by men for their sexual purity and availability.\n\nBecause benevolently sexist attitudes appear positive, people often do not identify these beliefs as a form of gender-based prejudice. Furthermore, benevolent sexism may be seen by both men and women as reinforcing of the status quo, which some individuals may find comforting. Social and cultural norms may encourage benevolently sexist beliefs among women and men. A classic illustration of this is the endorsement of modern-day chivalry in interactions between women and men. It can be considered traditional and polite for a man to insist that he holds a door open or carries a heavy object for a woman. However, this tradition is founded in historical representations of women as weaker than men. In these types of circumstances, people may find it difficult to distinguish between kindness, tradition, and benevolent sexism. Men and women often disagree on whether or not a specific incident should be considered sexist. In general, women and men tend to show more agreement in classifying extreme and overt expressions of sexism. Hostile sexism is typically easier for people to identify as an expression of prejudice.\n\nOverall, women are rarely perceived by others in an entirely hostile or benevolent manner. In fact, people frequently report high levels of both benevolent and hostile sexism. There are individual differences in people's levels of benevolent and hostile sexism, such that a person can be rated highly on both, one, or neither dimension of the Ambivalent Sexism Inventory. In addition, women are not immune from endorsing sexist beliefs about women. Extensive research supports the idea that it is common for women and men to support ambivalently sexist attitudes about women. Despite this, people find it difficult to believe that others can endorse both benevolent and hostile sexism. Research suggests that, when individuals are shown profiles of a benevolently sexist man and a man who endorses hostile sexism, they feel that it is very unlikely that one person can embody both forms of bias.\n\nSocial psychologists have suggested that sexism may be inherently different from other forms of ambivalent prejudice, in that there is interdependency between women and men in social structures. A central argument to the theory of ambivalent sexism is the idea that there is a complicated balance of power between men and women, such that men have structural power and women have dyadic power (stemming from dependence between two people). Dyadic power reflects the notion that men depend on women to fulfill certain goals, such as heterosexual intimacy and childbearing. Glick and Fiske assert that men's dependence on women is what fuels benevolently sexist attitudes, leading to idolization and the placing of women on a pedestal. In other words, power relationships between men and women foster an ambivalent form of bias towards women.\n\nTheoretically, each form of sexism is composed of three subcomponents: paternalism, gender differentiation, and heterosexuality. Paternalism reflects views of women as underdeveloped adults, providing justification for men to be authoritative and monitor, protect, and make decisions on women's behalf. Gender differentiation promotes the assumption that biological differences between males and females justify the strict adherence to socially prescribed gender roles. Heterosexuality—described as the most prominent cause of men's ambivalence toward women—reflects a tension between genuine desires for closeness and intimacy and a fear of women attaining power over men through sexual attraction.\n\nWithin hostile sexism (HS) and benevolent sexism (BS), the three subcomponents serve distinct functions. Dominative paternalism (HS) suggests that men should control women, while protective paternalism (BS) implies that men should protect and care for women. Competitive gender differentiation (HS) bolsters men's self-confidence (e.g., men are superior to women). Complementary gender differentiation (BS) places importance on traditional gender roles for women (e.g., mother & wife) and assumes that men depend on women to fulfill these roles. Lastly, heterosexual hostility (HS) views women as sexual objects for men's pleasure and promotes the fear of women's capacity to manipulate men by engaging in or withholding sexual activity. Intimate heterosexuality (BS) romanticizes women as having sexual purity and views romantic intimacy as necessary to complete a man.\n\nResearchers typically measure ambivalent sexism at the individual level. The primary method used to measure an individual's endorsement of ambivalent sexism is the Ambivalent Sexism Inventory (ASI), created by Glick and Fiske in 1996. The ASI is a 22-item self-report measure of sexism on which respondents indicate their level of agreement with various statements, which are placed on a 6-point Likert scale. It is composed of two sub-scales that may be independently calculated for sub-scale scores or may be averaged for an overall composite sexism score. The first sub-scale is the hostile sexism scale, which is composed of 11 items designed to assess an individual's position on the dimensions of dominative paternalism, competitive gender differentiation, and heterosexual hostility, as previously defined. A sample item from the hostile sexism sub-scale is \"Women are too easily offended.\" The second sub-scale is the benevolent sexism scale, which is composed of 11 items that aim to assess an individual's position on the dimensions of protective paternalism, complementary gender differentiation, and heterosexual intimacy, as previously defined. A sample item from the benevolent sexism sub-scale is \"Women should be cherished and protected by men.\"\n\nOver fifteen years of additional research and replications support that this inventory possesses psychometric characteristics indicating that the measure is both empirically reliable and valid. Standard criteria in psychological research can be utilized to evaluate a scale. Using statistics, a Cronbach's alpha coefficient can be calculated to indicate whether items on a scale seem to be measuring the same psychological construct or dimension (demonstrating the retestability of a scale). Generally, researchers agree that a Cronbach's alpha coefficient above 0.80 suggests strong reliability in a scale. The ASI has consistently demonstrated this empirical reliability over time. In addition, empirical evaluations of the ASI provide support for the validity of the scale, such that the inventory seems to effectively measure what it proposes to assess: a polarized attitude towards women, where both dimensions can be activated simultaneously.\n\nThe utility of the ASI is not limited to English speakers. There is extensive support for the cross-cultural validity of the ASI. A cross-cultural study examining the theory of ambivalent sexism in 19 countries found that hostile and benevolent components of sexism are not culturally specific. Furthermore, research suggests that ambivalently sexist attitudes towards men exist, such that hostile and benevolent attitudes toward men are found cross-culturally. These studies provide additional empirical evidence that support the framework of ambivalent sexism.\n\nWhile the ASI is widely used and accepted among researchers, one limitation of the ASI is that it is a self-reported measure. Social desirability is a common limitation of self-report measures in survey research; when participants in a research study complete a written self-report questionnaire, respondents are vulnerable to answering the items in a socially desirable manner. For this reason, some researchers employ variations of the ASI in their study designs that do not require self-reports. For example, Dardeene, Dumont, and Bollier (2007) transformed some items from the ASI into scenarios, presenting them to participants to induce conditions of both hostile and benevolent sexism. Hebl, King, Glick, Singletary, and Kazama (2007) designed a field study in which they observed the sexist behaviors of others; they used the theory of ambivalent sexism and the ASI to generate items for their own measure to assess these observed behaviors.\n\nAnother criticism of the ASI is that the labels of the two sub-constructs, \"benevolent\" and \"hostile\", are too abstract, do not generalize to certain languages, and may not be relevant to some cultures.\n\nLastly, findings from the Conn, Hanges, Sipe, and Salvaggio (1999) study suggest that other sexism scales may measure ambivalent attitudes towards women. Glick and Fiske originally proposed the theoretical framework of ambivalent sexism as filling a gap in the psychological literature and providing a novel tool for assessing a new dimension of sexism: benevolent sexism. However, Conn and colleagues (1999), using confirmatory factor analysis, showed that the Modern Sexism Scale (Swim, Aikin, Hall, and Hunter, 1995) captures ambivalent sentiments toward women, such that it identifies individuals that appear nonsexist but actually endorse sexist attitudes. Results from this study suggest that, while both the Modern Sexism Scale and the ASI assess ambivalence toward women, the ASI is unique in its capabilities for separately measuring both hostile and benevolent attitudes. In addition, the ASI captures heterosexual intimacy and benevolent paternalism, whereas the Modern Sexism Scale does not.\n\nWhile many individuals endorse both benevolent and hostile sexism simultaneously, research suggests that people rated significantly higher in one of the two sub-components have distinct constellations of beliefs and patterns of behavior. In other words, someone who is high in benevolent sexism tends to show a different profile of attitudes than someone who is high in hostile sexism. The independence of these types of sexism in predicting human behavior indicates that the two are, in fact, discrete forms of bias on separate but related axes. Examples of research findings identifying disparate outcomes between benevolent sexism and hostile sexism are described below. In addition, the relationships between ambivalent sexism and a range of other related attitudes and behaviors are discussed.\n\nMen who are ambivalently sexist (i.e., high in both benevolent and hostile sexism simultaneously) and men who are high in hostile sexism are more likely to tolerate the sexual harassment of women than men who are benevolently sexist. Overall, hostile sexism is associated with acceptance of sexual harassment. In addition, the endorsement of hostile sexism is related to attitudes about intimate partner violence perpetrated by men towards women, such that people that are high in hostile sexism are more tolerant of intimate partner violence. Benevolently sexist attitudes were not found to be a significant predictor of the tolerance of intimate partner violence. However, the endorsement of benevolent sexism was not a protective factor either. Lastly, men high in hostile sexism are more likely to rape women, whereas men that are high in benevolent sexism are more likely to blame a victim of rape for the attack.\n\nResearch has shown that sexist attitudes relate to preferences for certain characteristics in romantic partners. Evidence suggests that women with higher levels of benevolent sexism have more stereotypical preferences in men as romantic partners, such as financial security and resources. Men with higher levels of hostile sexism are more likely to value physical attractiveness in women as romantic partners. In addition, benevolent sexism tends to predict mate selection, whereas hostile sexism tend to predict subsequent marriage norms after pairing. Women find men high in benevolent sexism attractive, and rate men high in ambivalent sexism as less attractive. Furthermore, in a recent research study on a particular aspect of benevolent sexism, protective paternalistic beliefs, women endorsed more protective paternalistic beliefs for men (toward women) in romantic versus work contexts. The endorsement of these beliefs in romantic contexts is thought to serve to reinforce and maintain such benevolent sexist behaviors. Overall, benevolent sexism and hostile sexism are associated with beliefs that premarital sex is unacceptable for women.\n\nWhile the consequences of hostile sexism in the workplace are more widely known and accepted, research has shown that benevolent sexism may have a more severe impact on a women's cognitive performance. Dardenne, et al.(2006) suggested that hostile sexism can elicit anger or frustration in the target, which may increase her motivation to succeed or perform. Benevolent sexism, because of its seemingly positive evaluations and implicit attributions, is likely to hinder a woman's confidence and performance. The researchers showed that, in a typical team working environment, hostile sexism as well as benevolent sexism had consequences for the participant's performance. Masser and Abrams (2004) highlighted the fact that previous research has shown that benevolent sexism can have detrimental effects on a woman's performance evaluation if that woman violates social norms associated with certain sexist attitudes. Their study showed that hostile sexism, but not benevolent sexism, hurt women's evaluations and recommendations for promotion.\n\nAdditionally, studies have shown that benevolent sexist attitudes lead to lower professional evaluations from men and women. Using an experimental design, Masser and Abrams (2004) found that individuals with hostile sexist attitudes rated women lower when applying for a male-dominant position. Additionally, high hostile sexist individuals recommend men to fill the available position more often than women. The authors argue that this is one of the main contributors to the glass ceiling effect.\n\nIn a recent experimental study on the effects of benevolent sexism on help-seeking behaviors, researchers found that, when stereotypes of women as dependent were made salient, female college students were less willing to seek help. In addition, the more that help was sought, the worse women felt. Therefore, benevolent sexism appears to hold consequences towards women's help-seeking when certain benevolent sexist stereotypes are made salient.\n\nDuring the 2016 US Presidential Election, researchers connected ambivalent sexism to voting intentions. In a non-representative sample of US voters, predominantly male, ambivalent sexism was found to be the sole predictor of intending to vote for someone other than Hillary Clinton in the election. For every step up on the Ambivalent Sexism Inventory, participants were 3.3 times more likely to be voting for someone other than Hillary Clinton. Of those not voting for Clinton, they were not necessarily being pulled over to the Trump campaign, but rather, many were intending to vote Third Party or were still undecided. While higher Islamophobia predicted a vote for Trump, lower Islamophobia and \"higher\" ambivalent sexism predicted being undecided or voting for a Third Party.\n\nBoth benevolent and hostile sexism are considered legitimizing ideologies, in that these attitudes provide the justification for social inequalities between men and women. Social dominance orientation (SDO; Sidanius & Pratto, 1999) asserts that group-based inequalities are systematically reinforced by the disadvantaged group's adoption of the dominant group's ideology and social stratification. Empirical research has consistently supported the validity of Social Dominance Theory, and the SDO model of structural oppression may be particularly apt to describe how patriarchy is perpetuated.\n\nResearchers have explored reasons for why women might internalize ambivalently sexist attitudes towards women. Fischer (2006) found that women may develop benevolently sexist attitudes as a response to experiencing sexism themselves. Cross-cultural research suggests that women's endorsement of benevolent sexism often reflects a culture of extreme hostile sexism among men in a given community. Some researchers argue that, in cultures that are particularly hostile, women may internalize benevolent sexism as a protective mechanism.\n\n"}
{"id": "5706378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5706378", "title": "Annigeri", "text": "Annigeri\n\nAnnigeri is a taluk of Dharwad district in the state of Karnataka, India, located 20 km west of Gadag en route to Hubli and 35 km from Hubli.\n\nAnnigeri ()is the place of birth of the famous Kannada poet Adikavi Pampa (). It is well known for the black stone temple built by the Western Chalukya Empire. known as Amruteshwara Temple. A temple of mythological figures supported by 76 columns, located in the Dharwad district, and has a derasar dedicated to Parshva, the 23rd Tirthankara in Jainism.\nAnnigeri also has temples dedicated to Banashankari, Basappa, Gajina Basappa and Hanuman.\nThere is an ancient Lingayati temple near the railway station.\n\nAnnigeri has seven mosques and two Lingayati Mathas.\n\nAnnigeri was an important political and cultural center in the past. Various kings like the Chalukya dynasty, Seuna Yadavas of Devagiri and the Hoysala Empire annexed the town, which once formed part of the kingdoms of the Kalachuris of Kalyanis.\n\nAnnigeri was the last capital of the Chalukyas, Someshwara 4 (during 1184-89) and it was headquarters of famous rich province of \"Belvola-300\".\n\nAnnigeri comes under the core area of Western Chalukya architectural activity in the modern Karnataka state. The Amrtesvara Temple is the finest examples produced by the Kalyani Chalukyas (Western Chalukya architecture).\n\nIn 1157 the Kalachuris under Bijjala II captured Basavakalyan and occupied it for the next twenty years, forcing the Chalukyas to move their capital city to Annigeri in the present-day Dharwad district.\n\nTo Provide education at the primary and Vedic levels, Annigeri had five Brahmapuris.\n\nIn 2010, over 100 human skulls were found in a drain at Annigeri. According to the preliminary theories, the area may have been a mass grave around some 150–200 years ago, or it may have been a battle ground. After the discovery, the Archaeological Survey of India officials visited the site, and the government of Karnataka ordered an excavation. After the excavation, 471 skulls were found on a stretch of . As of 2011, the archaeologists were searching for any mention of a massacre in the local folklore or history.\n\nAnnigeri is the birthplace of the great Kannada poet, Adikavi Pampa.\n\ninstituted Pampa award.\nPampa.\n\nThe Amruteshwara Temple was built in the Dharwad District in 1050 CE with dravida articulation, and was the first temple made of soapstone.\n\nThe large and black stone Amruteshwar Temple is in the Kalyani Chalukyas style. The temple has a roof supported by 76 pillars and carvings of\nmythological figures on its walls.\n\nThe Amruteshwara Temple was to be the prototype for later, more articulated structures such as the Mahadeva Temple (Itagi) at Itagi. Based on the general plan of the Amrtesvara Temple, the Mahadeva Temple was built in 1112 CE and has the same architectural components as its predecessor. There are, however, differences in their articulation.\n\nCar Festival\n\nDuring December and January, Amruteshwara temple is the venue of a festival.\n\nMany other temples are also seen at Annigeri, such as:\n\n\nAnnigeri is located at . It has an average elevation of 624 metres (2047 feet).\n\n India census, Annigeri had a population of 25,709. Males constitute 51% of the population and females 49%. Annigeri has an average literacy rate of 55%, lower than the national average of 59.5%; with 61% of the males and 39% of females literate. 14% of the population is under 6 years of age.\n\n"}
{"id": "21317992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21317992", "title": "Brian Ó Cuív", "text": "Brian Ó Cuív\n\nBrian Ó Cuív (1916 – 14 November 1999) was a Celtic scholar who specialised in Irish history and philology.\n\nÓ Cuív was professor of Celtic Studies at University College Dublin and later at the Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies. His later years were devoted to the compilation of a catalogue of the Irish manuscripts in the University of Oxford. The completed catalogue was published after his death.\n\nHe married Emer de Valera, who would become the last surviving daughter of Éamon de Valera, with whom he had nine children. She died in 2012. A son, Éamon Ó Cuív, is a prominent Irish politician.\n\nÓ Cuív's surname was changed from \"Ó Caoimh\" (O'Keeffe) by his father, Shán Ó Cuív, a Cork journalist, who in the early 20th century, changed the spelling of his surname to conform with a simplified spelling system of his own invention which he called \"An Leitriú Shimplí\". The letter 'v' is extremely rare in Irish outside modern loanwords.\n\nHis works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "18246352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18246352", "title": "Capital call", "text": "Capital call\n\nA capital call (also known as a draw down or a capital commitment) is a legal right of an investment firm or an insurance firm to demand a portion of the money promised to it by an investor. A capital call fund would be the money that had been committed to the fund. The capital call is the act of actually transferring the promised funds to the investment target. A capital call agreement defines capital call terms.\n\nFor example, when an investor buys into a real estate fund, that fund's managers may wait some time before using the investor's money to buy real estate, either because they are waiting for real estate prices to be favorable, or because they are researching new deals. When they are ready to buy real estate, the fund managers issue a capital call, requiring investors who have committed money to the fund to transfer that money over.\n\nThe fund might also borrow funds instead of using the investor's money. This allows the fund to benefit from leverage. The financing of the real estate purchase is realized through borrowing from banks. When the fund has reached a certain level of return, capital calls are issued and the borrowing is paid off.\n\n"}
{"id": "7643301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7643301", "title": "Center for Media and Public Affairs", "text": "Center for Media and Public Affairs\n\nThe Center for Media and Public Affairs (CMPA) is a self-described nonpartisan and nonprofit research and educational organization that is affiliated with George Mason University in Fairfax, Virginia. It was founded in 1985 by political scientists S. Robert Lichter and his ex-wife Linda Lichter. It published a newsletter called \"Media Monitor\" from 1987 to 2010.\n\nThe CMPA conducts studies of the news and entertainment media. Among its activities are a continuing analysis and tabulation of late night political jokes, an annual report on diversity among network news journalists, and a content analysis of the nightly news on the major broadcast and cable news networks.\n\nThe results of the latter are compiled in the CMPA newsletter. CMPA engages in health communication research, investigating the way in which scientific issues are conveyed in the media. CMPA also engages in survey research to determine the accuracy of media's reports of scientific opinion.\n\nCMPA conducts social scientific research on media coverage with the use of such techniques as content analysis and survey research. Its studies appear in academic journals and reference works as well as in popular media outlets.\n\nCMPA's signature activity is its \"rapid response\" studies of media coverage of current issues, which appear quickly enough to influence ongoing public debates, such as presidential campaigns, Senate confirmation hearings, and major policy debates in Congress.\n\nAlthough CMPA avoids taking stands on political issues, its studies have sometimes become part of the public debate over the media's role in politics and society. For example, in 1992 a CMPA study found that the average length of a presidential candidate's soundbite on the evening news had dropped to less than ten seconds, down from 42 seconds in 1968. In response CBS adopted a policy requiring longer soundbites on the CBS Evening News.Edward S. Herman and Noam Chomsky note that the CMPA, along with several other nonpartisan non-profit organizations, help to police the media through the creation of \"flak,\" which they define as \"negative responses to a media statement or program\" and which they maintain is part of a project of \"disciplining the media.\" \n\nCMPA studies of entertainment media have been used by members of the United States Congress such as Sen. Joe Lieberman (I-CT) in their efforts to reduce gratuitous violence and sex in television entertainment. CMPA's research on entertainment media has also included studies of how various groups have been portrayed on television, such as studies of Hispanic Americans' portrayals commissioned by the National Council of La Raza and the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights.\n\nMedia Monitor was the bi-monthly publication of the Center for Media and Public Affairs, which presented the central findings of one or more research studies on media monitoring. It was started in 1987 and last published in 2010. It was a concise analysis of contemporary media coverage and the controversies that surround it. The research published was the result of quantitative content analysis of television, print, and radio news.\n\nThe media watchdog group Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting (FAIR) has challenged CMPA's non-partisan claim, based on the argument that much of its funding has come from conservative sources, and that its founder, Dr. S. Robert Lichter, once held a chair in mass communications at the American Enterprise Institute and was a Fox News contributor. After a \"Washington Post\" article referred to CMPA as \"conservative,\" the \"Post\" published a \"Clarification,\" which concluded, \"The Center describes itself as nonpartisan, and its studies have been cited by both conservative and liberal commentators.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2059679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059679", "title": "Cerlalc", "text": "Cerlalc\n\nThe Regional Center for the Promotion of Books in Latin America and Caribbean (CERLALC) (Spanish: \"Centro Regional para el Fomento del Libro en América Latina y el Caribe\", ) is an intergovernmental organization sponsored by UNESCO. The organization's headquarters are located in Bogotá, Colombia. Its main goal is to foster favorable conditions for the development of reading communities in Latin America and the Caribbean.\n\nCERLALC has 21 member states and the organization aims its activities toward  book production and distribution; the promotion of reading and writing, the training of the actors of the book-publishing process and the stimulation and protection of intellectual creation. In this regard, it provides technical assistance in the formulation of public policies, generates knowledge, disseminates specialized information, develops and promotes training processes and promotes spaces for dialogue and cooperation.\n\nThe establishment of CERLALC was part of UNESCO’s program for the promotion of books, which took place during UNESCO’s 14th general conference in Paris, in 1966. The original project included the creation of four centres for the promotion of book production in the world: Latin America, Asia, Africa and the Arab States. The result of this conference was the beginning of one of the most successful experiences in regional integration projects around the book.\n\nOn September 7th, 1967, the Colombian government requested UNESCO that the multilateral approaches for book promotion be extended to Latin America in the Program and Budget for the years 1969-1970. The request included the creation of a regional centre for the promotion of books in Latin America as a focal point for efforts aimed at promoting the free circulation and growth of regional book production and distribution.\n\nThrough Act 0253 of February 20th, 1970, the Colombian government gave authorization to four local organizations to create the first board of directors of the centre. These organizations were Instituto Caro y Cuervo, Instituto Colombiano de Cultura, Colcultura , Instituto Colombiano para el Fomento de la Educación Superior, ICFES and Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje, SENA. The national organization was named Centro Regional para el Fomento del libro en América Latina, CERLAL. (The second “C” letter was added at a later date). The Ministers of Education and Foreign Affairs, along with the National Planning Department of Colombia, were also part of this board.\n\nOn March 3, 1970, the founding act was signed, while decree 2290 established the bylaws of CERLALC as a national organism. Following this, On April 23, 1971, in Bogotá, the Colombian government and UNESCO signed an international cooperation agreement whereby Colombia committed to transforming the organization created in 1970 into a Regional Centre. This instrument allowed the addition of all Spanish-speaking countries. The Colombian congress gave its approval through Law 27 of 1971. Gradually, in the first four years, several countries of the region joint the regional project. These active countries members  have been: Argentina, Bolivia, Brasil, Costa Rica, Chile, Ecuador, Panamá, Paraguay, República Dominicana, Uruguay and Venezuela.\n\nThe Agreement of International Cooperation between UNESCO and the Colombian government that governs until today, was signed in Paris on August 1, 1984 and ratified in Colombia by Law 65 of November 20, 1986. In this international agreement, the reach of the centre was extended to other geographic and linguistic areas, including the Caribbean region (Hence the second “C” letter) and to the countries of the Lusitanian Hispanic linguistic unit, even those outside geographical Latin America.\n\n\nThe CERLALC is composed by a council. This superior organism is in charge to approve all of the political guidelines which rule the CERLALC. The council meeting is biennial and it is composed (made-up) by:\n\n\nThe chair of the Council is under the rule of Mrs Patricia Balbuena, Culture Minister of Perú.\n\nThere is also an Executive Committee which is integrated by a deputy of six countries from the 21 current countries members. They are chosen one by a council and they are elected for a biennial period, In addition to this, there is a (delegate) agent  from the UNESCO’S director and the representatives of the ministry of Foreign affairs and Education from Colombia.\n\nAmong its main functions are: Approval of the technical guidelines and the current budget of the organization as well as the control over the general functionality of the CERLALC and the execution of the programs according to the basic guidelines and parameters embraced by the main Council.\n\nThis administrative organ meets annually and the executive committee consists of:\n\n\nThe presidency of the executive committee its under El Salvador's control.\n\nTo fulfil its main statements, CERLALC leads and supports local and regional actions in the following plans of action.\n\n\nCERLALC's first headquarters was granted by Colombia's Ministry of Education. It was located in the historical center of Bogotá. Due to staff extension, a new headquarters was needed soon after. That is why in 1973, the CERLALC acquired its new and current main office.\n\n"}
{"id": "3071336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3071336", "title": "Crucifix (Michelangelo)", "text": "Crucifix (Michelangelo)\n\nTwo different crucifixes, or strictly, wooden \"corpus\" figures for crucifixes, are attributed to the High Renaissance master Michelangelo, although neither is universally accepted as his. Both are relatively small figures which would have been produced in Michelangelo's youth.\n\nOne is a polychrome wood sculpture possibly finished in 1492 which had been lost from view by scholars until it re-emerged in 1962; in 2001 new investigations appeared to confirm the attribution to Michelangelo. It was perhaps made for the high altar of the Church of Santa Maria del Santo Spirito in Florence, Italy. The work is especially notable for the fact that this Christ is naked.\n\nMichelangelo Buonarroti was a guest of the convent of Santa Maria del Santo Spirito (Florence) when he was seventeen years old, after the death of his protector Lorenzo de' Medici. Here he could make anatomical studies of the corpses coming from the convent's hospital; in exchange, he is said to have sculpted the wooden crucifix which was placed over the high altar. Today the crucifix is in the octagonal sacristy of the Basilica of Santa Maria del Santo Spirito.\n\nThe nudity of the figure is true to the Gospels. Christ's clothing being removed by Roman soldiers is offered as the fulfilment of , \"They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture.\" All of the Gospel writers suggest the nakedness, while John supplies the details:\n\nThe sign attached to the cross includes Jesus' accusation inscribed in Hebrew, Greek and Latin. The wording translates \"Jesus of Nazareth King of the Jews\". All of the evangelists record this inscription, which varies slightly among them. Here the artist favored the rendering from John's Gospel ().\n\nAlso present is the spear wound inflicted into Jesus’ side by a Roman soldier. His blood is seen here dripping from the wound on his right side.\n\nIn December 2008, the Italian government acquired from the antique dealer Giancarlo Gallino for €3.2 million another polychrome \"corpus\" for a crucifix in limewood; this is less than half the size of the Santo Spirito figure. The figure had been previously exhibited in 2004 in the Museo Horne in Florence.\n\nSome art historians attributed the work to Michelangelo based only on stylistic criteria, as the sculpture is not documented by contemporary biographers of Michelangelo Ascanio Condivi and Giorgio Vasari. The figure measures and was allegedly made around 1495. In December 2009, an inquiry has been opened into the acquisition of the crucifix by the Italian state. ANSA reports that: \"several experts have cast doubts on the attribution, with the doyenne of Michelangelo cross studies, German art historian Margrit Lisner, saying it was probably a Sansovino.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "36421070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36421070", "title": "Durán Madonna", "text": "Durán Madonna\n\nDurán Madonna (also known as the Madonna in Red or Virgin and Child in a Niche or Madonna Enthroned) is an oil on oak panel painting completed sometime between 1435 and 1438 by the Netherlandish painter Rogier van der Weyden. The painting derives from Jan van Eyck's \"Ince Hall Madonna\" and was much imitated subsequently. Now in the Prado, Madrid, it depicts a seated and serene Virgin Mary dressed in a long, flowing red robe lined with gold-coloured thread. She cradles the child Jesus who sits on her lap, playfully leafing backwards through a holy book or manuscript on which both figures' gazes rest. But unlike van Eyck's earlier treatment, van der Weyden not only positions his Virgin and Child in a Gothic apse or niche as he had his two earlier madonnas (the \"Madonna Standing\" and the \"Virgin and Child Enthroned\"), but also places them on a projecting plinth, thus further emphasising their sculptural impression.\n\nChrist appears much older than in most contemporary paintings of this kind. He is far from an infant, and is very realistically and physically rendered. He is shown as a small child, with none of the softness of usual 15th-century depictions of the Virgin and Child. The painting is characterised by the sculptural look that van der Weyden often favoured, and for its similarity in colourisation to his c. 1435 \"Descent from the Cross\" (Madrid) and c. 1442–45 \"Miraflores Altarpiece\" (Berlin).\n\nThe painting was acquired by Pedro Fernández-Durán in 1899 at the Palacio de Boadilla, Madrid. He donated the work to the Museo del Prado in 1930.\n\nMary is shown in a long, red, hooded robe and white headdress, with the Child Jesus in a white shirt seated on her lap. He curiously leafs through and crumples the pages of a book perched on his mother's knee. The book is placed at the very center of the panel, symbolising the centrality of the divine Word in Christian belief. According to the Prado, the book itself represents an allusion to the \"Holy Scriptures that announce Christ's redemptive mission.\" An angel in dark grey dress hovers above Mary's head, holding a pearl-encrusted crown destined for her upon her assumption as Queen of Heaven. Mary's long robe swirls around the pictorial space, obscuring her throne and eventually falling at the support by her feet. They are framed by a sculpted niche or apse with Gothic tracery similar to that found in van der Weyden's \"Descent from the Cross\". The curved arches of the niche echo the lines of her figure as she bends protectively over the child. These curved lines and warm colours give the work its sense of internal harmony.\nArt-historical analysis in the early to mid 20th century placed little emphasis on Christ's older age for a \"Virgin and Child\" work of this period. Nor did it emphasise the significance of the manuscript or the rough manner in which Christ seems to energetically leaf through it, his play watched on by a near-indulgent Mary. More recently, art historians such as Alfred Acres have questioned the significance of the child's freedom of movement and naturalistic portrayal in such a deliberately elegant and poised work—especially in the work of such a self-aware and compositionally involved painter as van der Weyden. Acres believes that the book is central to the understanding of the painting, and notes its perfect centrality in the panel; it is the focus of both figures' gazes and hands, and Christ is apparently leafing \"backwards\" through the pages, towards the beginning. While Christ's right hand holds a number of parchments scrunched together and he pays no attention to them, his more careful left hand is about to open the lower left corner of the open page. If it is reasonably assumed that the book held open on Mary's lap is facing towards her, it seems the child is leafing backwards through the pages. While holy books were often included in 15th-century northern depictions of the Virgin, they were usually associated with the idea of the Virgin as a representation of learning or wisdom; in no other contemporary painting are they turned through with such restless energy, not to mention being turned through from end to beginning. Acres suggests that the infant Christ is leafing back towards Genesis: 3 describing the Fall of Man, citing three other works where van der Weyden similarly articulates the redemptive theme, including the \" Madonna Standing\" panel in the Kunsthistorisches Museum where the Madonna is flanked by figures of Adam and Eve.\nArt historian Lorne Campbell believes the painting was influenced by Robert Campin's Frankfurt \"\" both in the ideal of feminine beauty it presents and for its elegant use of long folded draperies. Campbell notes that both works are composed from strong diagonal lines, with the main figures pushed out into the center foreground, in an almost trompe-l'œil manner. \nThe \"Durán Madonna\" is often compared to van der Weyden's \"Miraflores Altarpiece\", both for the colourisation of Mary's dress and for a sculptural look similar to the reliefs shown in the earlier triptych. In addition, the underdrawing of Mary's head is strikingly similar to that of the kindly, idealised Madonna in his \"Froimont Diptych\" (after 1460), now in the Musée des Beaux-Arts, Caen. Because of these strong similarities, attribution to van der Weyden is not doubted, although the work is known to have been frequently copied in Spain after it was relocated there sometime in the 16th century.\n\nThe black overpaint behind the Virgin was probably added at the request of a later 18th-century seller, most likely in an attempt to fashion the piece as a genre work and downplay its religious theme. Research aided by X-ray has been inconclusive and has found no lost detail or drawing beneath the thick layers of paint.\n\nVan der Weyden often depicted lifelike and voluminous figures set in shallow sculptural spaces, in which they seemed cramped and larger than scale. The space filled by the figures is undefined and ambiguously located. Mary and the child are supported by a projecting corbel, the three-dimensionality of which gives the disorienting impression that the figures are part of a relief in a much larger work of art. This gives the work a dizzying and dislocated perspective; its own unique sense of space and placement.\n\nThe painting is an early example of van der Weyden's habit of rendering his figures with the appearance of polychrome sculptures, an effect here accentuated by the neutral background. Van der Weyden's tendency to blur the line between sculpture and paint in an illusionistic manner can be see most effectively in his \"Descent from the Cross\". Art historian Robert Nosow notes the architectural aspect of the gothic frame, and the manner in which the lines of the Virgin and child make them seem as if statues come to life. Art historian Shirley Neilsen Blum writes that the faux sculptural elements, \"force[s] the viewer to continually confront the seemingly real presence of two media, sculpture and painting ... Rogier defies logic and therefore enhances the magical quality of the image. Divinity is stressed because it has transcended media definition.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "10190839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10190839", "title": "Eoin McKiernan", "text": "Eoin McKiernan\n\nEoin McKiernan, M.A., PhD, D.Litt. (10 May 1915 – 18 July 2004), was one of the major early scholars in the interdisciplinary field of Irish Studies in the United States and the founder of the Irish American Cultural Institute. He is credited with leading efforts to revive and preserve Irish culture and language in the United States. A biography, Irish America Reawakening: The Eoin McKiernan Story, describes his life's work in full.\n\nBorn John Thomas McKiernan in New York City, Dr. McKiernan adopted the old Irish form of his name, Eoin, early in his life. While in college, he won a scholarship to study Irish language in the Connemara Gaeltacht in the west of Ireland, galvanising his commitment to the language, a cause he championed throughout life. In 1938, he married Jeannette O'Callaghan, whom he met while studying Irish at the Gaelic Society in New York City. They raised nine children. In Jeannette's death (22 December 1996) he lost his greatest patron.\n\nDr. McKiernan attended seminary at Cathedral College and St. Joseph's in New York, leaving before ordination. He earned degrees in English and Classical Languages (AB, St Joseph College, NY, 1948), Education and Psychology (EdM, UNH, 1951), and American Literature and Psychology (PhD, Penn State, 1957). Later in life, McKiernan was awarded honorary doctorates from the National University of Ireland, Dublin [1969]; the College of St. Rose, Albany [1984]; Marist College, Poughkeepsie [1987]; and the University of St. Thomas, St. Paul [1996].\n\nPassion for Irish culture was the dominant undercurrent of a distinguished teaching career in secondary (Pittsfield, NH, 1947–49) and university levels (State University of New York at Geneseo, 1949–59, and University of St. Thomas in St. Paul, MN, 1959–72). McKiernan served as an officer of the National Council of College Teachers of English, was appointed by the Governor of NY to a State Advisory Committee to improve teacher certification standards, and served as a Consultant to the US Department of Education in the early 1960s.\n\nDr. McKiernan suggested to the Irish government in 1938 that a cultural presence in the United States would promote a deeper understanding between the two countries, but he eventually realised that if this were to happen, he would have to lead the way. His opportunity came in 1962, when he was asked to present a series on public television. Entitled \"Ireland Rediscovered,\" the series was so popular that another, longer series, \"Irish Diary,\" was commissioned. Both series aired nationwide. The enthusiastic response provided the impetus to establish the Irish American Cultural Institute (IACI, 1962). In 1972 he resigned from teaching to devote his energy entirely to the IACI.\n\nUnder Dr. McKiernan's direction, the IACI published the scholarly journal \"Eire-Ireland\", with subscribers in 25 countries, and the informational bi-monthly publication \"Ducas\". The IACI still sponsors the Irish Way (an immersion program for US teenagers); several speaker series (Irish Fortnight, the Luncheon Circle, Perceptions); a reforestation program in Ireland (Trees for Ireland); theatre events in both countries; and educational tours in Ireland. He continued these educational Ireland tours well into his retirement; his daughter, Deirdre, now leads them.\n\nPerhaps his most outstanding contribution was the awards given to the arts in Ireland, beginning with original prose and poetry in Irish, then expanding to include works in English, and ultimately, art and music. At his suggestion, the Institute financed the world premiere, in Springfield, MA, of A. J. Potter's Symphony No. 2. Coming at a time when the Irish government had little funding available, these awards were, according to many recipients, life-saving. (\"Irish Times\" 2 November 1971 (editorial), 24 January 1973, 21 September 1983, among others.)\n\nTroubled by the biased reporting of events in Northern Ireland in the 1970s, Dr. McKiernan established an Irish News Service, giving Irish media and public figures direct access to American outlets. In the 1990s, he was invited by the Ditchley Foundation to be part of discussions aimed at bringing peace to that troubled area and was a participant [1992] in a three-day conference in London dealing with civil rights in Northern Ireland. Organized by Liberty, a London civil rights group, the conference was also attended by UN, European Community, and Helsinki representatives.\n\nDr. McKiernan also founded Irish Books and Media, which was, for forty years, the largest distributor of Irish printed materials in the United States. In his eighth decade, he established Irish Educational Services, which funded children’s TV programs in Irish and provided monies for Irish language schools in Northern Ireland. \"Irish America\" magazine twice named him one of the Irish Americans of the year; in 1999, they chose him as one of the greatest Irish Americans of the 20th century.\n\nActively involved in matters of Irish interest well into his ninth decade, Dr. Eoin McKiernan died on 18 July 2004, in St. Paul, Minnesota, surrounded by his family. He was preceded in death by his wife, Jeannette, and is survived by their nine children, Deirdre, Kevin, Brendan, Nuala, Ethna, Fergus, Grania, Gillisa, and Liadan, as well as many grandchildren, great-grandchildren, nieces, and nephews. On his death, the Irish Times (20 July 2004), referred to him as the \"US Champion of Irish culture and history . . . a patriarch of Irish Studies in the US who laid the ground for the explosion of interest in Irish arts in recent years.” \n"}
{"id": "34568387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34568387", "title": "Equitable right", "text": "Equitable right\n\nAn equitable right is a legal right guaranteed by equity as opposed to a legal right which derives authority from a legal source. An example of an equitable right could be seen in Land law, where mention is made of a beneficial interest i.e. vested interests in an estate which are protected by equity. In essence, a contributor to the purchase of a property, has an equitable right to that property albeit not being the registered proprietor.\n"}
{"id": "497566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=497566", "title": "Euphuism", "text": "Euphuism\n\nEuphuism is a peculiar mannered style of English prose. It takes its name from a prose romance by John Lyly. It consists of a preciously ornate and sophisticated style, employing a deliberate excess of literary devices such as antitheses, alliterations, repetitions and rhetorical questions. Classical learning and remote knowledge of all kinds are displayed. Euphuism was fashionable in the 1580s, especially in the Elizabethan court.\n\n\"Euphues\" is the Greek for \"graceful, witty\". John Lyly published the works \"Euphues: The Anatomy of Wit\" (1578) and \"Euphues and his England\" (1580). Both works illustrated the intellectual fashions and favourite themes of Renaissance society—in a highly artificial and mannered style. The plots are unimportant, existing merely as structural elements on which to display conversations, discourses and letters mostly concerning the subject of love. Its essential features had already appeared in such works as George Pettie's \"A Petite Pallace of Pettie his pleasure\" (1576), in sermon literature, and Latin tracts. Lyly perfected the distinctive rhetorical devices on which the style was based.\n\nThe euphuistic sentence followed principles of balance and antithesis to their extremes, purposely using the latter regardless of sense. John Lyly set up three basic structural principles:\n\n\"It is virtue, yea virtue, gentlemen, that maketh gentlemen; that maketh the poor rich, the base-born noble, the subject a sovereign, the deformed beautiful, the sick whole, the weak strong, the most miserable most happy. There are two principal and peculiar gifts in the nature of man, knowledge and reason; the one commandeth, and the other obeyeth: these things neither the whirling wheel of fortune can change, neither the deceitful cavillings of worldlings separate, neither sickness abate, neither age abolish\". (\"Euphues, the Anatomy of Wit\")\n\n\"Is it not far better to abhor sins by the remembrance of others' faults, than by repentance of thine own follies?\" (\"Euphues, 1, lecture by the wise Neapolitan) \n\"Can any treasure in this transitory pilgrimmage be of more value than a friend? In whose bosom thou mayest sleep secure without fear, whom thou mayest make partner of all thy secrets without suspicion of fraud, and partaker of all thy misfortune without mistrust of fleeting. Who will account thy bale his bane, thy mishap his misery, the pricking of thy finger the piercing of his heart\" (Euphues) \n\"How frantic are those lovers which are carried away with the gay glistering of the fine face? The beauty whereof is parched with the summer's blaze and chipped with the winter's blast: which is of so short continuance, that it fadeth before one perceive it flourish\". (Euphues' after-dinner speech to the 'coy' Neapolitan ladies on whether the qualities of the mind or the composition of the man are more worthy). \n\"Time hath weaned me from my mother's teat, and age rid me from my father's correction\". (Lucilla, considering her father's reaction in abandoning her fiance Philanthus for Euphues). \n\"A sharp sore hath a short cure\" (Euphues) \n\"As they be hard to be won without trial of great faith, so are they hard to be lost without great cause of fickleness\". (Euphues to Lucilla on the quality of 'fervency' in women). \n\"But alas Euphues, what truth can there be found in a traveller? What stay in a stranger? Whose words and bodies both watch but for a wind, whose feet are ever fleeting, whose faith plighted on the shore, is turned to perjury when they hoist sail\". (Lucilla to Euphues).\n\nMany critics did not appreciate Lyly's deliberate excesses. Philip Sidney and Gabriel Harvey castigated his style. \n\nLyly's style, however, influenced Shakespeare, who satirised it in speeches by Polonius in \"Hamlet\" and the florid language of the courtly lovers in \"Love's Labour's Lost\"; Beatrice and Benedick in \"Much Ado About Nothing\" also made use of it, as did Richard and Lady Anne in \"Richard III\". It was taken up by the Elizabethan writers Robert Greene, Thomas Lodge and Barnabe Rich. Walter Scott satirised it in the character of Sir Piercie Shafton in \"The Monastery\", while Charles Kingsley defended \"Euphues\" in \"Westward Ho!\".\n\nEuphuism was not particular to Britain, or a manifestation of some social structure and artistic opportunity unique to that country. There were equivalents in other major European languages, each of which was called by a different name: culteranismo in Spain, Marinismo in Italy, and préciosité in France, for example.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "405304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405304", "title": "Figure painting", "text": "Figure painting\n\nA figure painting is a work of fine art in any of the painting media with the primary subject being the human figure, whether clothed or nude.\nFigure painting may also refer to the activity of creating such a work. The human figure has been one of the constant subjects of art since the first stone age cave paintings, and has been reinterpreted in various styles throughout history.\nUnlike figure drawings which are usually nudes, figure paintings are often historical, mythological, allegorical or imaginary depictions that may have figures in appropriate costumes. A portrait painting is a figure painting that focuses on the creation of a likeness of a particular individual or group.\n\nThe nude has been a theme in Western art since classical antiquity and again in the Renaissance, after being largely absent during the Middle Ages.\n\nOil paint historically has been the ideal media for depicting the figure. By blending and layering paint, the surface can become more like skin. \"Its slow drying time and various degrees of viscosity enable the artist to achieve rich and subtle blends of color and texture, which can suggest transformations from one human substance to another.\" Although working from live models is preferred, the length of time needed to complete a painting has led most modern painters to use photographs as references at least part of the time if not for the entire work.\n\nFigure painting is not synonymous with figurative art, which may depict real objects of any kind (including humans and animals).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "958828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=958828", "title": "Girl Heroes", "text": "Girl Heroes\n\nGirl Heroes: The New Force In Popular Culture is a 2002 text by Susan Hopkins. It is a cultural analysis of the contemporary archetype of the girl hero in popular culture.\n\nHopkins argues for a link between the 1990s British band Spice Girls, their vision of girl power, and the creation of a new kind of \"girl hero\". Hopkins also explores the roles of figures such as supermodels, magical girls, Carmen Sandiego, Britney Spears, Lara Croft, Xena, Dana Scully, the Charlie's Angels (the 2000s version), Sabrina Spellman, Mulan, and Buffy Summers.\n\nShe also draws comparisons between these images and earlier ones, such as Emma Peel of \"The Avengers\", the 1970s television show \"Wonder Woman\", Madonna and the \"Charlie's Angels\" TV show of the 1970s, pointing out the relative independence of this archetype from male and parental support.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "277267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=277267", "title": "Grey Owl", "text": "Grey Owl\n\nGrey Owl was the name British-born Archibald Belaney (September 18, 1888 – April 13, 1938) chose for himself when he started pretending to be a First Nations person. While he achieved fame as a conservationist during his life, after his death the revelation of his non-Native origins and other autobiographical fabrications negatively affected his reputation.\n\nBorn in England and migrating to Canada in the first decade of the 20th century, Belaney rose to prominence as a notable author, lecturer, and one of the \"most effective apostles of the wilderness\". The pivotal moment of departure for his early conservation work was when he began his relationship with a young Iroquois woman named Gertrude Bernard, who assisted in his transition from trapper to conservationist.\n\nIn working with the National Parks Branch, Grey Owl became the subject of many films, and was established as the \"'caretaker of park animals' at Riding Mountain National Park in Manitoba\" in 1931. Together with his numerous articles, books, films and lectures, his views on conservation reached audiences beyond the borders of Canada, challenging people to re-evaluate their relationship with nature. His conservation views largely focused on humans' negative impact on nature through their commodification of nature's resources for profits, and a need for humans to develop a respect for the natural world.\n\nRecognition has included biographies, a historic plaque at his birthplace, and a 1999 biopic about his life by the director Richard Attenborough.\n\nArchibald Stansfeld Belaney was born in September 1888, near Hastings, Sussex, England. Born to George Belaney and his wife Katherine (Kittie) Cox, he was mostly of English descent on both sides; his paternal grandfather had come from Scotland and married in England.\n\nKittie was his father's second wife. Years before Archie's birth, George Belaney had emigrated to the United States with his then-wife Elizabeth Cox and her younger sister Katherine (Kittie). After Elizabeth's early death, George persuaded Kittie, not yet 20, to marry him, a marriage that would have been illegal in Britain. Within the year they returned to Britain in time for the birth of their son Archie. The family lived together near Hastings until Kittie became pregnant for a second time. George and Kittie Belaney left to return to the United States, where he abandoned her. Archie remained in England in the care of his father's mother Juliana Belaney and his father's two younger sisters, Julia Caroline Belaney and Janet Adelaide Belaney, whom the boy would know as Aunt Carry and Aunt Ada. Kittie visited him a few times.\n\nBelaney later told his publisher his father was Scottish. The Belaney name does have roots in Scotland. One of his biographers documented that Archie's paternal grandfather had moved from Scotland to England, where he became a successful merchant.\n\nThe Belaney boy attended Hastings Grammar School, where he excelled in subjects such as English, French and chemistry. While outside school, he spent much time reading, or exploring St Helen's Wood near his home.\n\nAs a boy, Belaney was known for pranks, such as using his grammar school chemistry to make small bombs. He called them \"Belaney Bombs\". Fascinated by Native Americans, Belaney read about them and drew them in the margins of his books. Belaney left Hastings Grammar School and started work as a clerk with a timber company located behind St Helen's Wood. There Belaney and his friend George McCormick perfected the arts of knife throwing and marksmanship. Belaney turned his creativity to pursuits other than work. His last event there was lowering fireworks down the chimney of the timber company's office. The fireworks exploded and nearly destroyed the building. After the timber yard fired him, Belaney's aunts let him move to Canada, where he sought adventure.\n\nOn March 29, 1906 Belaney boarded the \"SS. Canada\" and sailed from Liverpool, UK for Halifax, CA. He emigrated ostensibly to study agriculture. After a brief time in Toronto, he moved to Temagami (\"Tema-Augama\"), Northern Ontario, where he worked as a fur trapper, a wilderness guide at Keewaydin camp, and a forest ranger. At first he began to sign his name as \"Grey Owl\". Then he fabricated a Native identity, telling people that he was the child of a Scottish father and Apache mother. (See the Metis people of Canada and the North American fur trade.) He claimed to have emigrated from the U.S. to join the \"Ojibwa\" in Canada.\n\nBelaney went to Toronto to earn money in the retail industry with aims of travelling farther north. Before heading to Northern Ontario to stay with the Guppy family in Lake Timiskaming, Belaney was keen to become a guide and continued to educate himself in nature. Before becoming a trapper, Belaney sought first-hand experience to learn the basic skills of a woodsman and apprenticed himself to Bill Guppy, who taught Belaney how to use snow-shoes and the basics of trapping, including how to place several types of trap. Following the Guppy family, he moved to Lake Temagami (Tema-Augama), Northern Ontario, where he worked as a chore boy at the Temagami Inn. For two years, Belaney worked as a chore boy and also made a trip back to Britain.\n\nUpon his return to Lake Temagami, Belaney's fascination with the Anishinaabe people increased. Belaney set about studying their language and lore while conducting a relationship with Ojibwa co-worker Angele Egwuna. Egwuna furthered Belaney's knowledge of trapping and fish nets, and also provided access to a network of Ojibwe people. Belaney claims he passionately embraced the cause of the Ojibwe Indians, and that in turn the Ojibwe treated Belaney as one of their own. In 1909, Belaney spent a winter with the Ojibwa trappers, and said he had been adopted as an Ojibwa trapper. In Donald B. Smith's \"From the Land of Shadows\", it is said that Belaney's greatest lesson was the fragility of the environmental ecosystem, which was influential in forming his conservationist views. On August 23, 1910, he and Angele Egwuna married.\n\nBelaney enlisted with the Canadian Overseas Expeditionary Force (CEF) on May 6, 1915 during the First World War. His Regimental number with the CEF was 415259. On his attestation papers, he claimed to be born in Montreal on September 18, 1888, and listed no next of kin. When asked about his marital status, it appears some confusion may have occurred; the word 'yes' was written and then crossed out, then the word 'no' was written and crossed out, leaving his marital status unclear to the military at the time of enlistment. He stated his trade was a 'trapper' and that he previously served as a 'Mexican Scout' with the 28th Dragoons, although this is unclear since the U.S. was not in any significant military actions in the region (other than small operations, in which he could not have served; he would have had to serve between 1904 and 1915). Belaney joined the 13th (Montreal) Battalion of the Black Watch. His unit was shipped to France, where he served as a sniper. His comrades accepted his self-presentation as Indian and generally praised his conduct. Belaney was wounded in January 1916, and then more seriously on April 24, 1916, with a shot through the foot. When the wounded limb developed gangrene, Belaney was shipped to Britain for treatment.\n\nWhile doctors tried to heal his foot, they moved Belaney from one British infirmary to another for a full year. In Britain, Belaney met again with childhood friend, Constance (Ivy) Holmes, and they married. Their marriage failed in a short time, without his having told Holmes that he was still married to Angele Egwuna, whom he had abandoned but not divorced. See Marriage 'à la façon du pays'.\n\nBelaney was shipped back to Canada in September 1917, where he received an honourable discharge on November 30, with a disability pension.\n\nIn 1925, then 37-year-old Belaney (now calling himself \"Grey Owl\" and telling people he was Indigenous) met 19-year-old Gertrude Bernard (aka Anahareo, or Pony), a Mohawk Iroquois woman who was to be very influential in his life. She encouraged him to stop trapping and to publish his writing about the wilderness. They had a passionate eight-year affair, beginning with their Anishinaabe wedding ceremony. Through her influence, he began to think more deeply about conservation. Anahareo encouraged his writing and influenced him by saving and raising a pair of beaver kits.\n\nAfter accompanying Grey Owl on a trapline, Anahareo attempted to make him see the torture that animals suffered when they were caught in traps. Anahareo could not convince Grey Owl until his pivotal moment of conversion from trapper to conservationist occurred involving beavers. According to Grey Owl's \"Pilgrims of the Wild\", he hunted down a beaver home where he knew a mother beaver to be and set a trap for her. When the trap caught the mother beaver, Grey Owl began to canoe away to the cries of kitten beavers which greatly resemble the sound of human infants. Anahareo begged Grey Owl to set the mother free, but he could not be swayed from his position because they needed the money from the beaver's pelt. The next day, Grey Owl went back for the baby beavers which the couple adopted. As Albert Braz stated in his article \"St. Archie of the Wild\", \"Indeed, primarily because of this episode, Grey Owl comes to believe that it is 'monstrous' to hunt such creatures and determines to 'study them' rather than 'persecuting them further.\n\nBelaney's first journal article, \"The Falls of Silence\", was published under the name A.S. Belaney in \"Country Life\", the English sporting and society magazine. He also published articles on animal lore as \"Grey Owl\" in \"Forest & Outdoors\", a publication of the Canadian Forestry Association. He became increasingly known in Canada and the United States. In 1928, the National Park Service made a film featuring Grey Owl and Anahareo, which showed them with two beavers which they had taken in as kits and raised after their mother was killed. Grey Owl wrote twenty-five articles for \"Canadian Forest and Outdoors\" magazine between 1930 and 1935, published while he was in the midst of writing his first book.\n\nHis first book as Grey Owl was called \"The Men of the Last Frontier\", published in 1931, and it traced the devastating story of the beaver as well as posed some very valid concerns about the future of Canada and its forests. Beaver pelts had become such a hot commodity in Canadian industry that the beaver was on the verge of extinction when Anahareo helped him understand the desperate need for protecting the animal instead of trapping it. According to Grey Owl in \"The Men of the Last Frontier\", trappers swarmed to the forests in higher numbers than ever before in 1930 because of the beaver's scarcity, and he argued that the only way to save this animal was to remove all of the trappers from the forests. This was an extremely difficult feat however because their pelts were so valuable and the job economy was so poor in the 1930s that he described their role in the economy as \"beavers [being] to the north what gold was to the west\". Though much of his focus in his writings were on the beaver, he also believed that this animal could be used as a symbol for the disappearing future of Canadian wilderness in a broader sense. He believed that Canada's wilderness and vastly open nature was what made it unique from other countries of the world, and this was disappearing at an extremely fast rate due to consumerism and the modernist emphasis on capital. He also discussed in \"The Men of the Last Frontier\" how the Canadian government and logging industry were working together to project a false image of forest preservation in order to gain possession of Canada's forests and rid them of their resources, burn down what remained, and attempt to replant \"synthetic forests\" in their places. His \"The Men of the Last Frontier\" was a call of desperation for the people of Canada to awaken from their immobility and resist the destruction of their country as the forests were being turned into deserts for profit.\n\nGrey Owl's relationship with Parks Canada, known in the 1930s as Dominion Parks Branch, began when he published stories through the Canadian Forestry Association. His publications in Canadian Forest and Outdoors brought him into contact with Gordon Dallyn, the then editor of Canadian Forest and Outdoors, who introduced him to James Harkin, the Parks Branch Commissioner. Sharing similar concerns over wilderness conservation, the Parks Branch agreed to make a film with Grey Owl and Jelly Roll (his pet beaver) with the goal of \"provid[ing] a living argument for conservation.\" W. J. Oliver, who at the time was under contract with the Parks Branch, was the prominent cameraman of the films commissioned by Parks Branch; along with filming Grey Owl, Oliver also took many pictures of him looking \"consciously Indian.\" These photographs would be used as illustrations in both Grey Owl's books such as \"The Men of the Last Frontier\", and as publicity for his lecturing tours. The film received good reception from the Forestry Association. Thinking it would bring increased tourism to the national park which Grey Owl would be working at, along with serving as a platform where Grey Owl could promote his work, James Harkin offered Grey Owl a job at the Riding Mountain National Park in early 1931.\n\nIn 1931, Grey Owl and Anahareo moved briefly (with their beavers) to a cabin in Riding Mountain National Park to find a sanctuary for them. Riding Mountain National Park was found to be an unsuitable habitat for the beavers, as a summer drought resulted in the lake water level sinking, and becoming stagnant. Both the beavers and Grey Owl were unhappy with the situation, causing Grey Owl to search, with the support of the Dominion Parks Branch, for better living conditions. The Parks Branch suggested Prince Albert National Park, situated 450 miles north-west of Riding Mountain National Park. Grey Owl and Anahareo found the park suitable for their needs as it was isolated, teeming with wildlife, heavily wooded, and Grey Owl had a favourable impression of the Superintendent of the Park, Major J.A. Wood. The greater sized waterway of Prince Albert National Park was found to be a more suitable beaver habitat, as the lake at Riding Mountain National Park had a risk of freezing to the bottom during winter.\n\nGrey Owl told his publisher and future biographer, Lovat Dickson, the following story about his origins:\nHe was the son of a Scottish father and Apache mother. He claimed his father was a man named George MacNeil, who had been a scout during the 1870s Indian Wars in the southwestern United States. Grey Owl said his mother was Katherine Cochise of the Apache, Jicarilla band. He further said that both parents had been part of the Wild Bill Hickok Western show that toured England. Grey Owl claimed to have been born in 1888 in Hermosillo, Mexico, while his parents were performing there. \n\nIn the 1930s Grey Owl wrote many articles for the Canadian Forestry Association (CFA) publication \"Forests and Outdoors\", including the following:\n\nHis article, \"A Description of the Fall Activities of Beaver, with some remarks on Conservation\", was collected in Harper Cory's book \"Grey Owl and the Beaver\" (London: Thomas Nelson and Sons Ltd, 1935).\n\nIn 1935–36 and 1937–38, Grey Owl toured Canada and Britain (including Hastings) to promote his books and lecture about conservation. His popularity attracted large, interested audiences, as \"Pilgrims in the Wild\" at one point was selling 5,000 copies a month. Grey Owl appeared in traditional Ojibwa clothing as part of his First Nations identity. Although his aunts recognised him at his 1935 appearance in Hastings, they did not talk about his true, British origins until 1937.\n\nBetween 1936 and his death he was informally visited at his base by the then Governor-General, Lord Tweedsmuir, an admirer of Grey Owl's writings on wildlife, an event photographed by Shuldham Redfern.\n\nDuring a publication tour of Canada, Grey Owl met Yvonne Perrier, a French Canadian woman. In November 1936 they married.\n\nFollowing his return from service in the First World War, Belaney's use of alcohol increased, and it was not unusual for him to appear drunk in public. On the ship back to Canada from his 1935 British tour, it was noted that he \"drank heavily, ate only onions and was noticeably ill.\" Excessive alcohol consumption compromised Grey Owl's position with the Dominion Parks Branch in Ottawa. He was supposed to meet a group of important governmental officials at the studio of Yousuf Karsh, who had organised a dinner in his honour. However, as the dinner began, Grey Owl was absent. Karsh later found him \"raising a drunken row in the bar.\" This public display of a Parks Branch employee drunk in public caused James Harkin to have to defend Grey Owl's position within Parks Branch to the Assistant Deputy Minister Roy A. Gibson. His consumption of alcohol at Prince Albert National Park created more friction between himself and Parks Branch as he was seen to \"indulge too freely in liquor.\"\n\nThe tours were fatiguing for Grey Owl and his years of alcoholism weakened him. In April 1938, he returned to Beaver Lodge, his cabin at Ajawaan Lake. Five days later, he was found unconscious on the floor of the cabin. Although taken to Prince Albert hospital for treatment, he died of pneumonia on April 13, 1938. He was buried near his cabin.\n\nHis first wife Angele proved her marriage and, although she had not seen him for several years, inherited most of his estate. After their deaths, Anahareo and Shirley Dawn (died June 3, 1984) in turn were buried at Ajawaan Lake.\n\nBelaney had relationships with at least five women. He deserted his first wife and child, later committing bigamy by marrying Constance Holmes in England. He had a daughter with his first wife and another with his third; and was known to have fathered a boy as well.\n\nWomen in Belaney's life:\n\nDoubts about Grey Owl's supposed First Nation identity had been circulating and stories were published immediately after his death. The \"North Bay Nugget\" newspaper ran the first exposé the day of his death, a story which they had been holding for three years. This was followed up by international news organisations, such as \"The Times\". His publisher Lovat Dickson tried to prove Belaney's claimed identity, but had to admit that his friend had lied to him. His popularity and support for his causes led \"The Ottawa Citizen\" to conclude, \"Of course, the value of his work is not jeopardized. His attainments as a writer and naturalist will survive.\" This opinion was widely shared in the UK national press.\n\nWhile his writings showed his deep knowledge and concern about the environment, Belaney's account of his origins as \"Grey Owl\" was fictional. The consequences of the revelation were dramatic. Publishers immediately ceased producing his books under the name \"Grey Owl\". In some cases his books were withdrawn from publication. This in turn affected the conservation causes with which Belaney had been associated, resulting in a decrease in donations.\n\nInitially, Grey Owl's efforts and conservation were focused towards the beaver up North; however, with the publication of The Men of the Last Frontier, his conservation efforts came to include all wild animals. While he had at one time been a fur trapper, he came to believe that \"the trap, the rifle, and poison\" would some day result in \"the Dwellers in the forest to come to an end too.\" He expressed in \"Pilgrims of the Wild\" how our rush to exploit natural resources for commercial value overlooks \"the capabilities and possibilities of the wild creatures involved in it.\" It was this \"commodification of all living things that was responsible for the destruction from the beaver.\" Grey Owl expressed that if there were \"temporary at least\" protection for fur bearing animals, then we would \"see the almost human response to kindness\" from animals. He called for people to remember \"that you belong to nature, and not it to you.\" \"Men of the Last Frontier\" was first called \"The Vanishing Frontier\", and subsequently named \"Men of the Last Frontier\" by the publishers, which he felt \"missed the entire point of the book\" as he \"spoke of nature, not men.\" The changing of the title exemplified for him the conception of people \"that man governs the powers of nature.\"\n\nIn 1972 the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) produced a documentary special on Grey Owl, directed by Nancy Ryley. In 1999, the film \"Grey Owl\" was released. It was directed by Richard Attenborough and starred Pierce Brosnan. The film received mixed reviews and received no theatrical release in the United States. In June 1997, the mayor of Hastings and the borough's Member of Parliament (Michael Foster) unveiled a plaque in his honor on the house at 32 St. James Road, Hastings, East Sussex, where he was born.\n\nThe ranger station at Hastings Country Park, 4 miles to the east of Hastings, also has a commemorative plaque to Grey Owl. A full-size replica of his Canadian lakeside cabin is in Hastings Museum at Summerfields. An exhibition of memorabilia and a commemorative plaque are at the house at 36 St. Mary's Terrace where he lived with his grandmother and aunts.\n\nThe cabin he had built in the 1930s still stands in Prince Albert National Park and can be reached by foot (20 kilometer hike) or by canoe (a 16 km paddle).\n\nA long story from \"Tales of an Empty Cabin\" was published separately in 1937 as a small volume:\n\nGrey Owl's first three books, \"The Men of the Last Frontier\", \"Pilgrims of the Wild\" and \"Sajo and her Beaver People\", have been collected and reprinted as \"Grey Owl: Three Complete and Unabridged Canadian Classics\" (2001: ). Excerpts from all four of his books were collected in \"The Book of Grey Owl: Selected Wildlife Stories\" (1938; 1989 reprint: ).\n\nSeidzo ja tema kobraste seiklused (The adventures of Sajo and her Beaver people.)Translation into Estonian by E. Heinaste, Tallinn, 1967.\n\n\nNumerous books about Belaney have been published, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "34711417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34711417", "title": "Heart of Europe Debating Tournament", "text": "Heart of Europe Debating Tournament\n\nThe Heart of Europe International Debating Tournament (HOE DT) is an annual debating tournament for high school-level teams which is held in English.\n\nThe Heart of Europe Debating Tournament is a WSDC (World Schools Debating Championships) based international debate tournament founded by John L. Wickham and the students of Olomouc - Hejcin High School. Originally a competition for high school students of European countries that had previously participated in the KPDP (Karl Popper Debate Program) established by OSI (Open Society Institute), after some time it became a truly global competition for high school debaters. The first Heart of Europe Debating Tournament was held in Olomouc, Czech Republic in 2001. The event attracted participants from Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. In 2002, the tournament didn't take place because the organizers were not able to obtain the necessary funding. Nonetheless, a year later, in 2003, the second year of the tournament was held. It has been hosted in Olomouc, Czech Republic every time since then, being organised by Debate Club Olomouc throughout the years 2004–2009. Heart of Europe has lately become an annual event and has been organised by the Association of Debate Clubs of Olomouc Region since 2010.\n\nThe year 2010 was a real step-up for the tournament, having had 17 countries participate, including such exotic ones as South Africa and China that engaged in the Grand Final of this year.\n\nIn year 2011 there was really significant step in improvement of quality of the tournament. Organising Committee established cooperation withPalacky University Olomouc. All the dabetes took place in magnificent building of Faculty of Science. The tournament also received new visual style in this year and a lot of work on promotion was done, such as new social networks, photo and video documentation. New participating countries were Moldova, Montenegro, Russia, Singapore and Sweden.\n\nYear 2012 was the greatest cornerstone in the history of the tournament. It was held by a new organization, Czech Debate Society, o. s.. For the first time, the tournament was also available online to participants all around the world because of the project \"Heart of Europe accessible to everyone\". What more, one additional new project was connected with the promotion of the tournament, The Czech Debate TV, with purpose to monitor debate and educational events and present educational videos. The tournament enjoyed fruitful partnerships with projects Debating Europe and The Office of the Government of the Czech Republic - European Affairs Information Department. In that year we have yet again welcomed several new nations, namely Chile, Nigeria, Macedonia, as well as it was the 5th anniversary of Jakub Kadlec' involvement with the tournament.\n\n2013 was the 10th anniversary of Heart of Europe and the tournament got its mascot Herr Heart. The biggest innovation of Heart of Europe 2013 was a test run of the British Parliamentary track before the high school competition, which proved to be a success and will be repeated in the future. As for the staff, the Chief Adjudicator panel was changed – extended to include judges from all over the planet in order to increase its diversity. There were also new participating countries (such as Croatia or Ukraine) and new partnerships made, mainly the one with Debate Club Pandora in Kiev, which later resulted in CDS helping with organization at their tournament called Under Chestnut Trees. Other new partners and sponsors included ARGO, ČEZ or Deleo. In terms of cultural program, Heart of Europe newly included a talent show, where everyone was invited to showcase any skill other than debating. Several debaters and judges performed singing, playing an instrument, dancing as well as some acting and stand up comedy. The next addition was a thematic tour of the city, which was special that year because of historical costumes and props used to demonstrate the legends of Olomouc. Additionally, registration to the tournament was tied to a blood donorship initiative.\n\nYear 2014 was most notable by the outstanding quality of the teams, even by the already quite high standard of the tournament - perhaps a result of multiple delegations spending several years prior to 2014 honing their skills at our tournament every year. The teams were also extraordinarily balanced. In the first break round, the last team to make the break from the 16th place defeated the first team, two members of which were still the best two speakers of the whole tournament. The team with the best two speakers was from South Africa, just like the team that ultimately won the whole tournament, only from an entirely different institution, thus also continuing the regular cycle of different continent winning each year. This was also the first year after the definitive retirement of the founder of the tournament, John L. Wickham, from the position of Chief Judge, making it a bit of an experiment in new organizational procedures. The new paradigm for the future of the tournament was decided to be a rotating position of a chief judge, open to new ascending debate stars, as well as experienced debate masters. New participating countries were Bermuda, China and Denmark. Czech Debate Society, o. s. has changed name to Czech Debate Society, z. s. in accordance with new civil code.\n\nHeart of Europe 2016 had again grown in size in 2016 to 40 teams, including some new additions to participating states like Argentina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, India, Peru, Qatar, and Spain. One of the ongoing trends that became especially apparent this time was the increase in the skill and experience level of the participating debaters. In part, this was happening because larger portion of the debaters were returning ones who have previously participated at Heart of Europe. At the same time, more high level international debaters were attracted to the tournament by its rising significance in the world debating circuit over the last couple of years. The motions debated in qualification rounds covered a range of topics from education, through women’s rights, to global economics. The grand final debate dealt with the issue of residual European colonialism, and it happened between the teams from Canada and Denmark, with the Canadians taking the prize.\nHeart of Europe International DT has become very popular during past years. There have been participants from countries such as Argentina, Belarus, Bermuda, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, China, Croatia, Czech Republic, England, Estonia, Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Israel, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Nigeria, Palestine, Peru, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Scotland, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine and United States of America.\n\nAll debates in the tournament are in English. This is for practical reasons, but it means that many countries debate in what is for them a foreign language. This has not stopped a number of these teams being very successful. Special awards have been introduced for the highest-ranked teams made-up of English-as-a-second-language (ESL) and English-as-a-foreign-language (EFL) speakers.\n\nFrom December 2012, Heart of Europe Debating Tournament has an official mascot – Herr Heart! Then Chief Adjudicator of the tournament, John Wickham, commented on it:\n\n“\"Introducing this mascot and promoting blood giving all around the world is another significant milestone for the Czech Debate Society and the tournament itself. It is in line with the tournament’s mission to develop cooperation among the youth and to foster cultural and social understanding and exchange. Herr Heart represents the sharpness, love for freedom and effort to help and to improve the neighbourhood, which is essential for debaters, as well as the hospitality and openness of organisers and the tournament itself.\"”\n\nJohn Wickham also explained the concept behind the logo for the HOEDT, saying that the heart in the middle of the Europe silhouette represents the central position of the place, from where the HOEDT helps spread freedom of speech, the centre of Europe which really is a crossroad of cultures. The logo also indicates the communication that will bring the students from various cultures closer to each other.\n\nThe colors chosen for the logo represent national colors of the country, as well as vitality and democracy. Herr Heart also brings a new motto, not just for our blood donor initiative, but for the tournament as a whole – Debate Is Life. Just like the blood is necessary to oxygenate the body, debating nurtures the mind, while it is literally saving lives even further through promoting peace and helping people of all ages and cultures live to the fullest. We at the HOEDT certainly live for the debate and that is why the debate lives here too.\n\nHeart of Europe Debating Tournament debates use a special format known as 'World Schools Style Debating'. This is a combination of the British Parliamentary and Australia-Asian debating, designed to meet the needs of the tournament. Each debate comprises eight- minute speeches delivered by two three-member teams (the Proposition and the Opposition). Each speaker delivers an eight-minute speech; then both teams deliver a \"reply speech\" lasting four minutes, with the last word being reserved for the Proposition. Between the end of the first and the beginning of the last minute of an eight-minute speech, the opposing party may offer \"points of information\". The speaker may refuse these, but should take at least one or two points during his or her speech.\n\nOriginally the plan was to use KPDP style of debate at Heart of Europe Debating Tournament. However, 'World Schools Style Debating' was used in many more countries for their national competitions, including Australia, Argentina, Germany, Greece, Indonesia, Israel, New Zealand, South Africa, Slovenia, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka and Wales, so the Organizing Committee has decided to use it.\n\nThe HOE DT normally takes place over the course of seven days. Each national team competes in eight preliminary debates: four prepared debates and four impromptu debates (for which teams have one hour to prepare). Once the eight preliminary rounds have been completed, the 16 best teams compete in knock-out debates (known as the Octofinals) culminating in a Grand Final. For each debate, three judges (or more in later rounds) mark each debater on his or her style, content and strategy.\n\nThe British Parliamentary Track of the Heart of Europe international debating tournament was first introduced in 2013, the 10th anniversary of the event. It took place between 29 July and 1 August 2013 and it was an international debating competition for university students in the most common format for this type of contest – the British Parliamentary debating, involving 4 teams of two university students in a single debate, representing two governments (affirming the motion) and two oppositions (negating the motion). The Chief Judge was Martin Rezny from the Czech Republic and the winning team was from Sweden.\n\nIn 2014, BP track was led by one of the winners of last year's BP track, Alexander Mäkela from Sweden, who introduced a special kind of motion for the last preliminary round – a hypothetical fictional scenario. Given the positive reception of the motion (in this case dealing with alien invasion), the experiment will likely turn into a tradition in the future years. There were 12 teams participating and the winning team was once again from Sweden.\n\nThe BP Track in 2015 has almost doubled in size since previous year including two new nations (Thailand and Great Britain), and the Chief Judge was once again Martin Rezny from the Czech Republic. The fictional scenario motion was about zombie apocalypse this time around, and even the real world motions shifted towards more unusual topics, such as astrology or robotics. The positive reception of this focus will therefore likely also become a trend at this event. The winning team was from Great Britain, the best speaker being Duncan Crowe, who just weeks after this event became a finalist of the EUDC 2015 in Vienna as well.\n\n\nThe Chief Adjudication Team (CAT) of HOEDT is selected by the Chief Judge with the help of the Chief Organizer. The number of members may vary, though an odd number is more practical in terms of the CAT assembling a functional judging panel. While the principles behind the selection of the CAT members may vary as well, the CAT should consist of experienced judges of international tournaments in appropriate debate formats. In 2013, a new convention was established by extending the CAT to 5 members, each ideally representing a different region of the world.\n\nThe Heart of Europe Debating Tournament is governed by the Organising Committee, which is nominated by Executive Board of Czech Debate Society (CDS) and is made up of representatives and members of CDS and volunteers. Decisions are made by democratic votes of the Organising Committee members. The Organising Committee decides which town in Czech Republic will host the tournament, monitors and revises the HOE DT rules, handles matters such as adjudication, language issues, education and finance. Since 2010 till 2012 the procedure was run by Association of Debate Clubs Olomouc Region.\n\nThere is a Code of Ethics of HOE DT which contains the Aims of the tournament and three basic principles. he principles ensure that there is no censorship of motions for debate, and that all teams take part on an equal basis. All participants and all hosts must agree to abide by the Code of Ethics before taking part.\n\nBritish Parliamentary Styly (highschoolers and university students)\nWorld Style (highschoolers)\n\nThe Goals of Heart of Europe Debating Tournament are:\n\nIn order to further these aims, all participating countries agree that: \n\nAt Heart of Europe Debating Tournament special awards are presented each year to the best-performing English-as-a-Foreign-Language (EFL) teams. These awards are open to teams from nations where English is not an official national language. To be eligible for the EFL award, a team must be predominantly made-up of students who do not come from English-speaking homes and who do not attend schools where English is used as a medium of instruction. \nThe EFL award was instituted in 2010. Prior to that, there was just one award for teams from non-English-speaking countries. Before 2010, the HOE DT rules stipulated that teams who reached the semi-finals or Grand Final of the championship were not eligible to receive the ESL award. When the EFL award was introduced, the rules were changed to allow teams who reach the semi-finals (but not the Grand Final) to be able to receive the ESL or EFL award.\n\nSo far the following nations have taken part in the Heart of Europe International Debating Tournament since its inception in 2001.\n\nP indicates prepared motion I indicates impromptu motion.\n\nGRAND FINAL\n\nTHBT a federal Europe will never come about.\n\nPRELIMINARY ROUNDS\n\n1. THBT president Bush's war on terror is making a valid contribution to combatting terrorism.\n\n2. THBT compensation should be paid for injustice committed by previous generations.\n\n3. THBT the United Nations has failed.\n\n4. THW impose economics sanctions to end child labour.\n\nGRAND FINAL\n\nTH welcomes the Euro.\n\nPRELIMINARY ROUNDS\n\n1. THBT true democracy is direct democracy.\n\n2. THW put fat cats on a diet.\n\n3. TH condemns gambling.\n\n4. THBT the state should have no role in broadcasting.\n\nAre not known.\n\nGRAND FINAL\n\nTHBT NATO has lost its importance after the Cold War.\n\nPRELIMINARY ROUNDS\n\n1. THBT Extremism in the pursuit of liberty is no vice.\n\n2. THBT China represents a Threat to World Security.\n\n3. THBT Russian Democracy is much sham as was Soviet Socialism.\n\n4. THBT the USA is the greatest threat to the world's future Environment.\n\nGRAND FINAL\n\nTHBT subsidizing the car industry will not solve the world economic crisis.\n\nPRELIMINARY ROUNDS\n\n1. THBT BRIC states (Brazil, India, China) are a menace to Europe.\n\n2. THW punish Mugabe.\n\n3. THBT the World Bank is an obstacle to development.\n\n4. THBT genetically modified foods are in the public interest.\n\nGRAND FINAL\n\nTHBT Israel should be obliged (if necessary by force) to withdraw from all lands acquired since 1966\n\nPRELIMINARY ROUNDS\n\n1. THBT All Drugs should be legalized.\n2. THBT Turkey should be admitted into the European Union. \n3. THBT Downloading music and films from the internet should be prohibited.\n4. THBT All Foreign forces should be withdrawn from Afghanistan.\n\nGRAND FINAL\n\nTHBT Central Banks should set limits on government spending.\n\nPRELIMINARY ROUNDS\n\n1. THBT democracy is not the answer for every country.\n\n2. THBT nuclear energy is a necessary means of fighting the climate change.\n\n3. THW give preference to immigration applicants whose values are consistent with those of the host nation.\n\n4. THBT peer pressure is more beneficial than harmful.\n\nGRAND FINAL\n\nThis House believes that attempts to create a supranational Europe are going to fail.\n\nPRELIMINARY ROUNDS\n\n1. TH condemns the payment of bonuses to executives to supplement their salaries.\n\n2. THBT a parliamentary democracy requires the inclusion of sovereign referenda to decide on important issues.\n\n3. THBT Las Malvinas (The Falkland Islands) should be returned to Argentina.\n\n4. THBT all young people should be required to do some form of National Service (not necessarily military) for two full years.\n\nPRELIMINARY ROUNDS - IMPROMPTU SETS\n\nA. Motions on Sport and Health\n\n1. This House believes that we should establish one permanent centre for the Olympic Games to be held each Olympiad.\n\n2. This House believes that the manufacture and sale of tobacco should be made illegal.\n\n3. This House considers that many professional sportsmen are grossly overpaid.\n\nB. Motions on Education\n\n1. This House believes that all Mainstream Secondary Schools should provide Esperanto as their first Foreign Language.\n\n2. This House believes that school History should only be taught from an international perspective.\n\n3. This House believes that Physical Education should only be an optional for students over the age of 18.\n\nC. Motions on Crime and Punishment\n\n1. This House believes that there are some crimes for which Life Imprisonment without the possibility of Parole is an appropriate punishment.\n\n2. This House believes that the right to self-defence should include the right to use firearms against house breakers.\n\n3. This House believes that the wearing of full burqa, hijab jilbab or niqad in public should be outlawed.\n\nD. International Motions\n\n1. This House believes that no Nations in the UN Security Council should have the right of veto.\n\n2. This House believes that there can be no hope of lasting peace in the Middle East until Israel withdraws to its boundaries of 1967.\n\n3. This House believes that China should be exiled from the community of nations until it recognizes the full sovereignty of Tibet.\n\nBREAKING ROUNDS - IMPROMPTU SETS\n\nE. Motions for the Octofinals\n\n1. This House would outlaw all zoos, animal park and circus animals since they represent curelty to animals.\n\n2. Religion has done more harm than good.\n\n3. This House believes that public transport in urban areas should be provided free by local authorities.\n\nF. Motions for the Quarter Finals\n\n1. The preservation of minority languages and cultures such as Welsh, Breton, Catalan makes European Integration more difficult and therefore should notbe supported by European Funding.\n\n2. This House believes that Private Education should be made illegal.\n\n3. This House believes that a Free Press needs some control.\n\nG. Motions for the Semi Finals\n\n1. This House believes that Immigration into Europe presents a positive hope for the future of Europe.\n\n2. Modern Trends in the Arts (Music, Painting, Literature etc.) have failed to communicate with large numbers of the public.\n\n3. This House believes that the Twentieth Century was a century of progress for humanity.\n\nTHBT the role of the Roman Catholic Church since 1945 in the world diplomacy has been overwhelmingly negative\n\nTHBT with the ending of the Warsaw Pact there is no further justification for the existence of NATO\n\n(3) SPORT\n\n1. THW pardon all sportsmen found guilty of using performance enhancement drugs\n\n2. THW pay professional sportsmen as much as university professors\n\n3. THW Ban Sports that involve killing animals\n\n(4) Culture\n\n1. THBT modern art may be modern but is rarely art\n\n2. THBT the Beetles have contributed more to society than Beethoven\n\n3. THW stop state funding of the arts\n\nTHW stop public funding of space exploration\n\nTHBT war causes more problems than it solves\n\n(7) Education\n\n1. TH Prefers single-sex schools to co-educational schools\n\n2. THW require all new teacher graduates from developed countries to work in the developing world for a period of twelve months.\n\n3. THBT nationalism has no place in the school curriculum\n\n(8)Politics and Economics\n\n1. THS Free Trade to the developing world\n\n2. THBT there is no place for monarchy in a democratic country\n\n3. This house believes that corrupt democracy is better than dictatorship\n\n(OF) Environment\n\n1. THBT there is no future without nuclear energy\n\n2. THW rather use its resources to adapt to climate change than to prevent it\n\n3. THW Mandate recycling Programs in developing countries\n\n(QF) International relations\n\n1. THBT Tibet should be recognized as an independent state\n\n2. THBT America has done more harm than good since 1945\n\n3. THBT the ICC should have the authority to investigate and prosecute any cases\n\n(SF) Religion Morality Ethics\n\n1. THW not use medically scarce resources on terminally ill patients\n\n2. THBT multiculturalism has failed\n\n3. THBT religion should have a place in public education\n\nFINAL\n\nTHBT in the long run there is no hope to save Euro without a Federal Europe\n\nThis year motions were created by Motion Committee: Wissam Chalabi, Lukas Machacek and Jakub Kadlec. The committee had advisors: Carmen Belafi, Tristan Von Zahn, Eva Nike Cvikl, Itumeleng Kenneth Mohanoe, Frankie Cena, Martin Rezny, Bojana Skrt, Olesia Yakimakha.\n\n(1) P\n\nTHBT the NSA should continue using PRISM despite the reaction to its disclosure\n\n(2) P\n\nTHW prohibit the privatization of natural resources in developing countries\n\n(3) I FAMILY ISSUES\n\n1. TH Regrets the decision of children who cut all ties with their parents\n\n2. TH Supports assisted suicide for terminally ill minors\n\n3. THW abolish the right to refuse to give evidence in court cases against family members\n\n(4) I SPORTS\n\n1. TH Regrets giving Russia the right to host the 2018 FIFA World Cup\n\n2. THBT sports leagues should not use cheerleading performances at their events\n\n3. THW only allow amateur athletes to compete at the Olympic Games\n\n(5) P\n\nConsidering its role in the holocaust, THBT Germany should recognize a Palestinian state and urge \nIsrael to do the same\n\n(6) I EDUCATION\n\n1. THW ban traditional circumcision/initiation schools (with info slip)\n\n2. THW pay performance based salaries to teachers\n\n3. THBT social media does more harm than good to education\n\n(7) \"I\" SCIENCE\n\n1. THBT the MarsOne mission should be cancelled (with info slip)\n\n2. THW Stop the search for extraterrestrial intelligent life\n\n3. THW not allow social media sites to conduct psychological experiments on their users \nwithout their knowledge\n\n(8) I INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS\n\n1. THBT private military companies should be banned from UN Peacekeeping Operations\n\n2. THBT the decision to engage in any form of military intervention (including war) should be \nmade by the political executive in a state and not by the citizens\n\n3. THW not pay ransom to terrorist groups that hold hostages\n\n(OF) I DEVELOPING COUNTRIES\n\n1. THBT violence is a legitimate tool for political opposition movements in authoritarian states\n\n2. THBT western nations should make aid conditional on advances in gay rights\n\n3. THBT developing countries should hold the Catholic Church financially liable for the medical \nexpenses of AIDS victims in areas where the church campaigns against condom use. (not \npicked)\n\n(QF) I EQUALITY\n\n1. THBT the feminist movement should oppose affirmative action for women in western liberal \ndemocracies\n\n2. THBT the state should fully subsidise gender reassignment surgery. (not picked)\n\n3. THBT refugees should be granted voting rights in their recipient countries\n\n1. TH Opposes the extinguishing of Buddhist monks who self-immolate in Protest\n\n2. TH Regrets the American people’s opposition to military intervention (not picked)\n\n3. THBT hacktivism is a legitimate tool of political protest\n\nFINAL P\n\nTHBT refugees should be granted voting rights in their recipient countries\n\nThis year motions were created by Motion Committee: Itumeleng Kenneth Mohanoe, Frankie Cena, Mgr. Martin Rezny and Jakub Kadlec.\n\n(1) P\n\nTHBT international military intervention against Boko Haram is justified, regardless of the views of the Nigerian government\n\n(2) P\n\nTHBT the normalization of relations between the USA and Cuba will result in substantial improvements in civil rights in Cuba\n\n(3) I EDUCATION\n\n1. THW concede to the enjoyment and fulfilment of sex (including sexual gratification) when designing a sex education curriculum\n\n2. THW make sports compulsory for university and college students\n\n3. THW not grade students in public schools\n\n(4) I SPORTS AND ARTS\n\n1. THBT the restriction to use performance-enhancement drugs in sport is unjustified\n\n2. THW not allow owners of culturally important artworks to alter them\n\n3. THW Reveal the work of a dead author, even against his will\n\n(5) P\n\nTHBT sexually assertive female pop stars identifying as feminists are harmful for feminism\n\n(6) P\n\nTHBT the Eurasian Economic Union is going to be a threat to the European Union in the future\n\n(7) \"I\" MINORITY RIGHTS\n\n1. THW consider gender identity when addressing affirmative action\n\n2. THBT the legalization of gay marriage around the world will lead to significant improvements of the LGBTQ Community\n\n3. THBT the enshrining of gay rights in constitutions does more harm than good for the LGBTQ movement\n\n(8) I TRADITIONS, CULTURE AND RELIGION\n\n1. THBT individuals who worship their ancestors should practise that as a faith rather than just “thanksgiving”\n\n2. THW ban polygamy\n\n3. THS individuals who choose to identify from a race they were not born into\n\n(OF) I JUSTICE\n\n1. THW allow individuals to sue religious organisations for making decisions that harm them\n\n2. THW pay reparations to descendants of slaves\n\n3. THW try dangerous youth offenders as adults\n\n(QF) I SOCIAL MEDIA/SOCIAL NETWORKING\n\n1. THBT the reliance of news from social media has damaged the credibility of news-reporting\n\n2. THBT employers should not be influenced by information on social networking sites when hiring and firing\n\n3. THBT the media should be required to cap political advertising by candidates and parties during elections\n\n(SF) I ECONOMICS AND POLITICS\n\n1. THBT a two-party political system is more effective than a multi-party political system\n\n2. In times of economic crises, THW instate a government of expert economists, and not politicians\n\n3. THBT all debts of developing countries owed to developed countries should be forgiven\n\nFINAL P\n\nTHBT EU’s development aid should be focused primarily on education\n\nThis year prepared motions were created by Motion Committee: Itumeleng Kenneth Mohanoe (ZAR), Frankie Cena (CAN), Laura Krawczyk (POL), Mgr. Martin Rezny (CZE) and Jakub Kadlec (CZE).\nImpromto sets were created by Motion Committee: Itumeleng Kenneth Mohanoe (ZAR), Frankie Cena (CAN), Dena Tabyanian (CAN), aura Krawczyk (POL), Simona Mazilu (ROM), Delfina Vildósola (ARG), Mgr. Martin Rezny (CZE) and Jakub Kadlec (CZE).\n\n(1) P\n\nTHBT constitutions of liberal democracies should not enshrine LGBTQ rights\n\n(2) P\n\nTHBT constitutions of liberal democracies should not enshrine LGBTQ rights\n\n(3) I EDUCATION\n\n1. THW require all public servants voted into office (presidents, deputies, ministers, premiers etc.)to send their children to public school\n\n2. THW require public schools to teach the basic tenets of the world's main religions\n\n3. THBT Boarding Schools have done more harm than good\n\n(4) I POLITICS\n\n1. THBT social media is an effective tool in maintaining democracy\n\n2. Assuming there is a pill that forces politicians to tell the truth, TH would force them to take it when running for office\n\n3. THBT poorly informed voters are the greatest risk to liberal democracies\n\n(5) P\n\nTHW pay citizens to house refugees\n(6) P\n\nTHW pay citizens to house refugees\n\n(7) \"I\" WOMEN/FEMINISM\n\n1. TH, given the technology, would make men bear children\n\n2. THW condemn chivalrous behavior as sexist\n\n3. THBT A Hillary Election is good for feminism\n\n(8) I MORALITY/ETHICS\n\n1. THW allow the government to implant GPS trackers in everyone\n\n2. THBT unconventional forms of political activism are effective tools for change in a democracy\n\n3. THBT Companies should divulge private personal information of customers if required by Government Authorities\n\n(OF) I ECONOMICS\n\n1. THW nationalize any company that is deemed to be too big to fail\n\n2. THBT people who indulge in dangerous lifestyles should pay higher health care\n\n3. THW not tax the poor\n\n(QF) I IDENTITY POLITICS\n\n1. THW compensate every black family in America regardless of whether their ancestors were enslaved\n\n2. THBT nationalism has more good than harm\n\n3. THBT tourism companies should not be allowed to use previously oppressed groups for marketing purposes\n\n(SF) I GENERAL/INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS\n\n1. THBT being an illegal immigrant should not be enough to get someone deported\n\n2. THBT developing countries should prioritize environmental protection over resource extraction\n\n3. THBT the next Secretary-General of the United Nations MUST be a woman\n\nFINAL P\n\nTHBT all EU states should remove restrictions from their former colonies\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34025708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34025708", "title": "Hybrid institutions and governance", "text": "Hybrid institutions and governance\n\nThe term ‘hybrid institution’ is not yet well-established or clearly defined in academic literature. This article therefore begins by offering a definition of the term and a brief discussion of its origins. The article thereafter is structured as a series of examples which demonstrate some of the key characteristics, strengths and weaknesses of hybrid institutions. These examples are mostly limited to environmental issues, and have been selected for their value in introducing the concept of hybrid institutions, in that they encapsulate key themes. There remains a multitude of other examples, and contributions from both environmental and other fields are welcomed and encouraged.\n\nThe term ‘institution’ eludes precise definition, and its interpretation in academic literature varies. The dictionary definition: ‘an established law, custom, or practice’ is an oft-used and useful starting point. Theoretical discussions have highlighted a distinction between formal (laws, official rules, contracts, standards, procedures) and informal (shared values, behavioural norms, belief systems, codes of conduct, discourses) institutions. This distinction has emerged from what has been termed the ‘new institutionalism’, which adopts a more critical approach to the study of institutions. Institutions are seen as key actors in guiding the political process, and are shaped by historical struggles, rules and procedures; rather than being merely the aggregation of individual motives. The apparent paradox at play here, that institutions both shape political processes and are themselves the product of political processes, is explored further in the examples below.\n\nThe ‘new institutionalism’ is of value in defining what constitutes a ‘hybrid institution’, as it demonstrates “a concern with new arrangements for policy-making rather than a new look at old institutions”. Lowdnes’ concept of the ‘disaggregated institution’ theorises the institutionalisation of relations between governmental and non-governmental actors, providing a useful starting point for conceptualising hybrid institutions. A hybrid institution is as an institution which exists between or across the boundaries of sectors, government departments, geographic units, or combines the governance regimes of “traditional dichotomies” such as the state and the market. They represent a new institutional pluralism, blurring the boundaries between previously distinct policy entities by creating new formal and informal institutions. A definition which includes both formal and informal institutions may be considered problematic in that almost any dialogue or cooperation could be considered an informal hybrid institution. North’s distinction between ‘loosely’ and ‘thickly’ institutionalised policy environments is of use here. Where cooperation is limited, and not enshrined within official documents or a specific policy or contract (loose, informal institutionalisation), the hybrid can be said to be weak. Within ‘thickly’ institutionalised environments, with contracts, rules, joint appointments etc. the hybrid is strong. This distinction is examined further in examples below. Depending on the specific context, a strong or weak hybridisation may determine the legitimacy of the institution.\n\nInstitutional theorists stress the need to distinguish between institutions and organisations. Organisations are defined as “purposive entities”, and are “tangible ‘things’” which have remits, offices and staff”. Institutions on the other hand provide the rules, norms and settings within which organisations emerged. With hybrid institutions, such a distinction may be more difficult to draw, or perhaps not so necessary. If two existing organisations collaborate to form a joint department, bureau or agency, this new ‘tangible’ entity may meet the criteria of an organisation, but given its novelty and the specific conditions of its formation (being the result of an explicitly collaborative or ‘hybrid’ approach), it may be considered a hybrid institution. Treating ‘organisation’ and ‘institution’ synonymously is perhaps less problematic within the context of hybrid institutions.\n\nWhile institutionalism relaxes the distinction between organizations and institutions, it is customary to see hybridity in terms of organisations. In practice, many hybrid arrangements exist on meso level as industries or organizational fields such as cleantech industry or innovations systems, as well as on system level (e.g. health policy). Further, in relational terms hybrids can be analysed in terms of single entities, dyads (group of two) or as triads (group of three). For instance global air travel consists of public, private and hybrid airline operators (single entity). The global airtravel is organized according to bilateral agreements (dyad) among public authorities, and global alliances consist of hybrid contracting among the partners in the alliances (triad)\n\nHybrid institutions, although rarely discussed explicitly in the literature, have existed since the 1980s. The quangos established under the Thatcher Government, for instance, represent state-market institutional hybrids. Quangos also serve to demonstrate the neoliberal context within which the changes in institutional configurations are taking place (the ‘rolling back’ of the state and a more prominent role for the market). Moreover, the IPCC and its predecessor the Advisory Group on Greenhouse Gases (considered below), hybrids operating between science and politics, were first established over two decades ago.\n\nThe term itself was coined by administrative economist Oliver Williamson. His original use of the term to analyse modes of governance in the private sector conflates nicely with ideas of hybrid governance more generally. Williamson explored hierarchal governance within the firm, and (self)governance of single transaction markets. Williamson’s examination of the efficacy of hybrid modes of governance which combine the responsiveness, efficiency and low transaction costs of markets with the administrative and cooperative capacity within the firm resembles state-market hybrids to some extent.\n\nType II Partnerships were developed at the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development in 2002. These partnerships exemplify a more general shift in governance practice that has been termed ‘The Partnership Movement’, whereby “transnational governance networks [...] bring together public, private and societal actors in an effort to institutionalise a set of ideas, practices, and norms” (emphasis added). There are clear links with network governance here, which studies the relationships between different (usually non-state) actors that work together on a particular issue or policy. The Type II Partnerships can be seen as an attempt to promote hybrid institutions between public and private actors. Whether or not these policy networks and partnerships were institutionalised, or were genuine hybrids, is debated within the literature. This debate provides a useful indirect critique of hybrid institutions.\n\nAlthough Type II Partnerships were conceived as public-private hybrids, the private sector is involved in just 20% of partnerships, and takes the lead in only 2%. Most partnerships are led by government agencies, NGOs, or existing international organisations, and the vast majority of funding comes from governments. Moreover, only 6% of partnerships involve actors from all the major categories set out: rich countries, poor countries, international organisations, NGOs, and industry. Thus, Type IIs should perhaps be considered state-non-state, rather than public-private hybrid institutions, if they can be considered hybrid institutions at all.\n\nBecause they develop out of existing institutional arrangements, hybrid institutions may be seen as reinforcing existing power structures, serving as a “reinvention of existing institutions”, which do not help address key institutional deficits in areas with the greatest need. This is another prominent criticism in literature on partnerships. Existing organisations seek legitimacy through successful initiatives and thus target areas which already enjoy a reasonable level of institutional capacity to boost their chances of success, meaning that weaker states and marginalised areas where the need for governance solutions is greatest are left out of the process. This is rather perverse for an initiative geared toward sustainable development.\n\nAlthough the partnerships have been criticised, a common criticism both of the Type IIs and multilateral policy more generally is the “minimal degree of institutionalisation” seen. This serves to promote strong hybrid institutions as a potential solution to the low “implementation record of [...] multilateral partnerships”. One of the more successful partnerships, The Andean Biotrade Programme, demonstrates both genuine hybridity and strongly institutionalised outcomes. The governments of 5 Andean countries, rich donor states, local and international organisations, research institutions and local communities all came together to form a Regional Biodiversity Strategy. The Strategy contains agreements on biotrade, technological development for conservation and eco-finance, a “set of intersected [issues] that have been deadlocked at the governmental level by competing interests and power inequalities”. In the context of the Type II Partnerships, strong hybrid institutionalisation is indicative of, indeed a “precondition” for success. By the same token, weak, informal institutionalism which demonstrates only “cosmetic or symbolic” arrangements does not bear positive results.\n\nStrong institutionalisation of partnerships in the form of monitoring procedures or implementation reviews, as well as helping ensure positive outcomes (legitimacy), also helps address a key requirement for institutions, accountability. New hybrid forms of governance make achieving accountability more difficult. Traditionally, (democratic) states are accountable to their voters, and private organisations to their members and shareholders. However, when numerous organisations act together, the picture is more complex. States are still ultimately acting on behalf of their citizens, but when acting in tandem with other sectors, or at the global level, the traditional “lines of accountability” lengthen. Moreover, there is often ‘external’ accountability as well as internal, in that actors are accountable to the people in areas they affect as well as their own constituents and members. By having clear and transparent strategies, policy documents, and reporting procedures, hybrid institutions can ensure their legitimacy and accountability.\n\nThe IPCC is both a scientific and a political institution. It consists of over 2000 scientists representing 154 countries, and was “conceived as an explicitly hybrid institution capable of producing a political consensus around scientific knowledge concerning the global climate” (emphasis added). The success of the IPCC in establishing political consensus over a very complex issue, and the failings of its predecessor, the Advisory Group on Greenhouse Gases, again serve as a useful indication of the principles for success in hybrid institutions.\n\nThe IPCC, in its present form, is in many ways an exemplar hybrid institution. The institutional set-up is designed to achieve consensus and buy-in on a very complex issue. Each chapter must have a lead author from both the global north and south, to help ensure the report reflects the perspectives of both developed and developing countries. The final report must be unanimously agreed upon by both scientists and government representatives, resulting in a document which is “policy relevant but not policy prescriptive”. As with the partnerships discussed previously, the importance of achieving both a balance of input from different sectors, and rules which shape outcomes is evident; demonstrating need for strong, genuinely hybrid institutions.\n\nEqually, some of the failings of the IPCC in its early forms, and its predecessor, demonstrate the failings of imbalanced hybrids. The quota rule which requires both north and south inputs for each chapter was introduced in response to criticism that the reports were western-centric. Moreover, Advisory Group on Greenhouse Gases failed because it was too far removed from policy-making process. Without sufficient dialogue with policy-makers, the Advisory Group was viewed with suspicion for its lack of transparency and openness. In this instance the Group failed to balance between scientific and political process and thus failed as a hybrid.\n\nSome critics have argued that the IPCC produces ‘watered-down’ recommendations, because of the extent of political consultation. However, as illustrated, the political dialogue is necessary and has seen remarkable success in establishing consensus. A further criticism of the IPCC is that its formation was shaped by a northern political agenda, and by framing climate change in terms of ‘tolerable levels’, the moral and political issues over differential historical uses of the world’s resources were avoided. This argument reflects a wider critique of institutions as being the product of traditional power structures that perpetuate existing inequalities. Solutions that rest on hybrid institutions would be rejected by scholars such as Jordan & O’Riordan who argue for a “universal shift” in the institutional arrangements for tackling climate change, as they serve to promote western interests at the expense of the developing world at present.\n\nDolly the sheep was born on 7 February 1997 as the first animal cloned from adult cells. The institutional arrangements behind this scientific feat demonstrate the increasing “embeddedness” of political, scientific, and economic processes at work in the production of knowledge. Dolly was a product of three intimately linked institutions: The Roslin Research Institute (government funded), PPL Therapeutics (private firm), and Edinburgh University. Formally, these are all separate entities, but in reality they are intertwined and should be considered hybrid institutions. PPL, whose involvement in funding the Dolly project was driven by potential commercial applications, was originally a ‘spin-off’ from the Roslin Institute. The Roslin institute was initially formed to take advantage of the strong biomedical department at Edinburgh University, and over 50 PhD students from the University were involved in the Dolly project. Such hybrid arrangements are increasingly important, “the hybridity that these institutes represent” subverts views of a linear relationship between science and policy and demonstrates the required “intellectual pluralism and flexibility” in public science systems . Again, the neoliberal context is evident here, with state-funded entities having to engage with the private sector and demonstrate economic worthiness to maintain legitimacy.\n\nIn previous examples, successful institutions are defined by strong hybridity. However, hybridity which is too strong can challenge the legitimacy of academic-scientific-private hybrids. Gulbrandsen highlights the dilemma faced by Research Institutions in their engagement with the private sector and universities. Stockholm syndrome, whereby hostages develop loyalty to their captors, is used to describe a scenario where the need for private funding jeopardises the neutrality of the research process in favour of a particular clients’ perspective. Lima syndrome, whereby the captors develop an attachment to their hostages, applies where research bodies lose sight of their role in contributing to society and becoming preoccupied with esoteric academic debates. This example shows that an implied relationship between success and strong hybridity does not apply in all contexts. Indeed, weak and informally institutionalised hybrids may be necessary to retain legitimacy in some cases.\n\nOne of the few uses of the term hybrid institutions in academic literature which relates explicitly to governance is German & Keeler’s discussion of hybridising governance of property regimes. Ostrom’s theory of common pool resource management highlights the value of community-created institutions in the governing of a common resource (communication, rule-making, sanctions, conflict resolution etc.). German & Keeler’s proposal is to extrapolate these successful principles and apply them across “diverse property regimes”, for state-owned, private and communal resources, creating hybrid institutions that combine usually distinct governance regimes. The proposal is that the\ncombining technical and enforcement capacity of the state, the legal certainty of ownership, and the successful principles of self-organisation may help govern responses where property regimes are contentious or overlap, or where issues exist that do not respect discrete regimes of resource tenure (for example pests, weeds, or watercourse pollution).\nThis proposal argues for hybridity not between two sectors or organisations, but between previously distinct institutional configurations associated with separate modes of governance:\n\n\"\"[T]he functioning of [these] hybrid institutions depends upon the creative combination of autonomous (market), self-organising (contractual) and state regulatory (hierarchical) approaches to governance”\" (emphasis added)\n\nAs outlined previously, hybrid institutions are becoming more prominent amid moves away from traditional government towards modes of governance more appropriate for complex issues. For instance, a great deal of political faith is being placed on hybrid institutions for tackling climate change in the form of carbon markets. Carbon markets are very much hybrid institutions in that they rely on governments to set the “rules for participation”, such as setting the cap or baseline, monitoring, verification and, as seen in the recently announced Australian carbon tax, setting a minimum price for carbon. Only once carbon markets have been “crafted” by political decisions does the market aspect enter into play. The complexity and hybridity of the institutional set-up of carbon markers will be further increased if proposals to link carbon markets from different regions of the world come to fruition.\n\nAnother proposal concerns the creation of a new, hybrid institution to better manage the overlaps between the UN Climate Regime and the WTO in areas such as border taxes on environmentally damaging goods, transfer of clean technologies, and trade liberalisation; institutionalising joint consideration of climate change and development. Currently these issues are addressed by the WTO Committee on Trade and Environment (CTE), however there are questions as to whether this is sufficient. Even the IPCC (which avoids prescriptive policy advice) has questioned whether the CTE is “an appropriate forum” for such discussions.\n\nHybrid institutions then, have the potential to “bring together expertise, [...] and broaden dialogues to overcome negotiation deadlocks”. Legitimacy and accountability of these relatively novel arrangements rests upon establishing the right degree of institutionalisation and balanced hybridity, both of which vary within different contexts.\n"}
{"id": "12438526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12438526", "title": "IEEE style", "text": "IEEE style\n\nThe Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) style is a widely accepted format for writing research papers, commonly used in technical fields, particularly in computer science. IEEE style is based on the Chicago Style. In IEEE style, citations are numbered, but citation numbers are included in the text in square brackets rather than as superscripts. All bibliographical information is exclusively included in the list of references at the end of the document, next to the respective citation number.\n\n"}
{"id": "31982402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31982402", "title": "International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions", "text": "International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions\n\nThe International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions (IAAPA) represents over 5,300 amusement-industry members in more than 100 countries worldwide and operates several global amusement-industry trade shows. Its annual IAAPA Attractions Exposition (IAE) in Orlando, Florida is recognized as the world's largest amusement trade show in the number of attendees and exhibitors and providing members insight into current amusement trends, laws, operations and industry methodology. IAAPA also helps to promote guest- and ride-safety guidelines in conjunction with ASTM International and assists its members to uphold the highest amusement-industry safety and professional standards.\n\nIAAPA represents a variety of location-based entertainment facilities, including amusement and theme parks, family entertainment centers, arcades, museums, water parks, aquariums, science centers, zoos, and resorts. It also represents industry equipment manufacturers, distributors, operators, industry suppliers, and service providers.\n\nIn 1990, IAAPA established an international council in expand its global reach and give advice and direction about programs and services for members outside the United States. The council and its operations committee were instrumental in recruiting international members and developing quality products and services. IAAPA also established the IAAPA Hall of Fame, with amusement-industry pioneers its first class of inductees.\n\nThe following year, the 73rd annual convention and trade show in Orlando, Florida had over 19,000 attendees. The IAAPA Expo was the largest amusement-industry exhibition in the world, offering trends in amusement and arcade equipment, food, beverage, park technology and entertainment.\n\nIn 2000 the association worked to counter negative publicity following high-profile amusement-ride incidents and surrounding amusement safety, publicizing the industry’s overall safety record. It established a ride-incident reporting system for its U.S. facilities with rides (releasing the initial results in 2003 through the National Safety Council), and helped facilitate independent scientific reviews of ride forces in 2002-03 indicating the inherent safety of rides for the general public. In 2000, IAAPA opened its first full-time overseas office (IAAPA Europe) in Brussels.\n\nThe organization acquired the Asian Amusement Expo (AAE) in 2003, but canceled the event because of the SARS outbreak in Asia. IAAPA maintained its focus on industry safety that year, establishing an international standards harmonization group to implement universal ride-safety criteria. In 2004, it helped spearhead the adoption of the ASTM International amusement-ride design and manufacture standard and the European standard for amusement machinery and structures.\n\nTwo years later, IAAPA joined the Travel Industry Association of America to produce \"The Economic Impact of Domestic and Overseas Travelers Who Visit Amusement/Theme Parks and Other Attractions in the United States\" on the importance of amusement, theme parks and other attractions to U.S. tourism and its wider economy. The association extended membership to casinos and resorts, since a number of facilities had incorporated amusement and entertainment features. To promote park safety, IAAPA made its ride incident reporting system mandatory for U.S. members and supported Europarks' efforts to implement a similar system for its members. IAAPA encouraged voluntary ride reporting by its global partners, supplying background materials.\n\nIn 2007 the association opened a new office in Europe with expanded programs and services and increased collaboration with Europarks on ride-safety reporting, and held its annual senior-level training program (the Institute for Executive Education) to the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. At its Attractions Expo, the association unveiled its institute for emerging leaders (later renamed the Institute for Attractions Managers) to recruit candidates for senior-level positions.\n\nThe following year, IAAPA acquired the Euro Attractions Show (EAS). It held its first Middle East safety conference in Dubai in February, and had its inaugural Attractions Safety Awareness Week to enhance understanding of the industry’s safety practices and record in June.\n\nIn 2010, the IAAPA Foundation was created as a 501(c)(3) organization to fund the development of education programs and information resources for the global attractions industry. The following year, the association implemented its certification program to help raise amusement-industry standards. Its Institute for Executive Education was revived in conjunction with San Diego State University, and IAAPA's first \"Latin America State of the Industry Report\" and \"European Manifesto\" were released. In September 2016, the association announced plans to move its headquarters from Alexandria, Virginia to Orlando in 2017 and to hold its expo in Orlando until 2030.\n\nFounded in 1918, IAAPA is the largest international trade association for permanent amusement facilities and attractions and is dedicated to the preservation and prosperity of the attractions industry. The association represents nearly 5,000 facility, supplier, and individual members in 99 countries. Member facilities include amusement and theme parks, water parks, attractions, family entertainment centers, zoos, aquariums, museums, science centers, and resorts. IAAPA is a nonprofit organization with its headquarters in Orlando, Florida and regional offices in Brussels, Mexico City, Hong Kong, Shanghai, and Washington D.C..\n\nThe association operates the IAAPA Attractions Expo, the Asian Attractions Expo (AAE), and the Euro Attractions Show (EAS). At each show, IAAPA offers educational, informational, operational, safety, and leadership seminars and behind-the-scenes tours of member amusement parks, theme parks, water parks, and family entertainment centers. IAAPA publishes the monthly \"Funworld Magazine\" for its members, keeps its global membership informed about current and pending federal, state and local amusement-related laws and legislation and publishes \"News Flash\", a daily e-newsletter with industry news stories from around the world.\n\nThe IAAPA Hall Of Fame was established in 1990 to celebrate achievements in and contributions to the growth and development of the amusement park and attractions industry. Its Service Awards honor members who excel in dedication to the association and the industry.\n\nIAAPA offers training in every aspect of the amusement-park and attractions industry and provides member facilities with opportunities to educate their personnel with workshops, on-site seminars, videotapes, manuals, webinars and services provided by institute programs, such as the IAAPA Institutes for Attractions Managers and Executive Education and the IAAPA Safety Institute. The association promotes amusement park safety standards to its members and maintains a partnership with the ASTM International to develop and update ride safety standards and maintenance requirements. IAAPA’s advocacy department reaches out to governments in a number of countries, representing the industry in attraction and amusement-park legislation and regulations.\n"}
{"id": "30870605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30870605", "title": "Latin American integration", "text": "Latin American integration\n\nThe integration of Latin America has a history going back to Spanish American and Brazilian independence, when there was discussion of creating a regional state or confederation of Latin American nations to protect the area's newly won autonomy. After several projects failed, the issue was not taken up again until the late 19th century, but now centered on the issue of international trade and with a sense of pan-Americanism, owing to the United States of America taking a leading role in the project. The idea of granting these organizations a primarily political purpose did not become prominent again until the post-World War II period, which saw both the start of the Cold War and a climate of international cooperation that led to the creation of institutions such as the United Nations. It would not be until the mid-20th century that uniquely Latin American organizations were created.\n\nAt the end of the wars of independence (1808–1825), many new sovereign states emerged in the Americas from the former Spanish colonies. The South American independence leader Simón Bolívar envisioned various unions that would ensure the independence of Spanish America vis-à-vis the European powers—in particular the United Kingdom—and the expanding United States. Already in his 1815 Cartagena Manifesto, Bolívar advocated that the Spanish American provinces should present a united front to the Spanish in order to prevent their being re-conquered piecemeal, though he did not yet propose a political union of any kind. During the wars of independence, the fight against Spain was marked by only an incipient sense of nationalism. It was unclear what the new states that replaced the Spanish monarchy should be. Most of those who fought for independence identified with both their birth provinces and Spanish America as a whole, both of which they referred to as their \"patria\", a term which incorporates meanings contained today in the English words \"fatherland\" and \"homeland\".\n\nAs Bolívar made advances against royalist forces, he began to propose the creation of various large states and confederations, inspired by Francisco de Miranda's idea of an independent state consisting of all of Spanish America, which Miranda variously called \"Colombia\", the \"American Empire\" or the \"American Federation\". In 1819, Bolívar was able to successfully create a nation called \"Colombia\" (today referred to as Gran Colombia) out of several Spanish American provinces; in 1825, he proposed joining it to Peru and Upper Peru in a confederation or state that he suggested be called the \"Bolivian Federation\" or \"Bolivian Union\" and which historians refer to as the \"Andean Confederation\", but this never came about.\n\nOther large states that emerged from the disintegration of the Spanish Monarchy also failed to prove long-lived. The Federal Republic of Central America, created out of the former Captaincy General of Guatemala, ceased to exist in 1840. The United Provinces of South America was never viable and suffered from nearly constant civil war between its provinces and the capital, Buenos Aires. Argentina would not become united until the 1850s. The 1836 attempt to reunite the key regions of the former Viceroyalty of Peru in a Peru-Bolivian Confederation fell apart after three years. Only Mexico, which consisted of the core areas of the Viceroyalty of New Spain remained as a physically large state in Latin America. The other regional exception was the Empire of Brazil, from which Portugal essentially declared independence in 1820 by demanding the return of the Portuguese king and court from Rio de Janeiro.\n\nBolívar also proposed a separate league of the newly independent Spanish American republics, and to this end organized the Amphictyonic Congress or the Congress of Panama in 1826. Bolívar did not invite Brazil, since it was a monarchy and he saw it as a threat to the new republics' existence, nor did he invite the government at Buenos Aires, since the region lacked any real political unity to effectively be represented. Only after pressure was placed on him was the United States invited to the congress, but one representative died \"en route\" and the other arrived after deliberations were concluded. The United Kingdom was present only as an observer. The congress did draft a \"Treaty of Union, League, and Perpetual Confederation\", a pact of mutual defense and commerce, but only Gran Colombia ratified it. Gran Colombia itself fell apart in 1830. Because of these failed projects, Latin American politicians often speak of regional integration as \"Bolivar's dream\".\nSixty-three years after the Amphictyonic Congress, a secretariat, the Commercial Bureau of the American Republics, was created by eighteen American nations in 1889 at the First Pan-American Conference to promote trade in the western hemisphere. The Commercial Bureau began functioning on April 14, 1890. The bureau was renamed the International Commercial Bureau at the Second International Conference of 1901–1902. At the Fourth Pan-American Conference in 1910, the name of the organization was changed to the Union of American Republics and the International Commercial Bureau became the Pan American Union.\n\nThe experience of World War II convinced hemispheric governments that unilateral action by one nation could not ensure the territorial integrity of the American nations in the event of extra-continental aggression, in particular Soviet or communist incursions. To meet the challenges of global conflict in the Cold War period and to contain conflicts within the hemisphere, they adopted a system of collective security, the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance, popularly known as the Rio Treaty, in 1947. The following year, at the Ninth International Conference of American States, headed by U.S. Secretary of State George Marshall, twenty-one member states pledged to fight communism in the Americas, and transformed the Pan American Union into the Organization of American States (OAS). The transition was smooth. The Director General of the Pan American Union, Alberto Lleras Camargo, became the OAS's first Secretary General and the organization began functioning in December 1951.\nBy the late twentieth century, many Latin American leaders saw a need for an alternative organization that was not dominated by the United States. The experience of dealing with the 1970s and 1980s communist insurgencies in Central America through the creation of the Contadora Group, which did not include the United States, inspired the creation of the Rio Group in 1986. The Rio Group did not create a secretariat or permanent body and instead chose to rely on yearly summits of heads of states.\n\nLatin America also reached out to Europe, in particular its former colonial mother countries, to create other regional organizations based around common languages and cultures. In 1991 the governments of Mexico, Brazil and Spain organized the First Ibero-American Summits of Heads of State and Governments in Guadalajara, Mexico. The result was the creation of the Iberoamerican Community of Nations, which holds yearly summits of its heads of state.\n\nTrade, not politics, also served as the principal issue around which various, uniquely Latin American regional organizations were formed after mid-century. On October 14, 1951, the governments of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua signed a new treaty creating the Organization of Central American States \"(Organización de Estados Centroamericanos\", or \"ODECA)\" to promote regional cooperation, integration and unity in Central America. This led to the creation of the Central American Common Market, the Central American Bank for Economic Integration, and the Secretariat for Central American Economic Integration (SIECA) nine years later on December 13, 1960.\n\nOther regional trade blocs were also established in this period. The Latin American Free Trade Association (ALALC) was formed by the 1960 Treaty of Montevideo, which was signed by Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay. The signatories hoped to create a common market in Latin America and offered tariff rebates among member nations. Its main goal was to eliminate all duties and restrictions on the majority of their trade within a twelve-year period. ALALC came into effect on January 2, 1962. Inspired by the European Communities, in 1980 the ALALC was transformed into the Latin American Integration Association (ALADI) by the second Treaty of Montevideo to pursue the more ambitious goal of improving the economic and social development of the region through the establishment of the common market.\n\nIn 1969 the Andean Pact was founded by Chile, Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador and Colombia. In 1973, the pact gained its sixth member, Venezuela. In 1976, however, its membership was again reduced to five when Chile withdrew. Venezuela announced its withdrawal in 2006, reducing the Andean Community to four member states. The name of the organization was changed to the Andean Community of Nations (CAN) in 1996. In 1985 the presidents of Argentina and Brazil signed the Argentina-Brazil Integration and Economics Cooperation Program. This eventually led to the founding of Mercosur by Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay and Argentina in 1991 to promote free trade and the fluid movement of goods, people, and currency. Venezuela joined Mercosur in 2012 and Bolivia is an acceding member. In 1995 Mexico, Colombia and Venezuela created the G3 Free Trade Agreement. Venezuela left the G3 in 2006 at the same time it left the CAN. In addition to these trade organizations, several parliamentary organizations have been created. Mercosur agreed in December 2004 to create a Mercosur Parliament, which should begin functioning in 2010. A Latin American Parliament was created in 1987; this is located in Panama City.\n\nIn December 2004 Mercosur and the Andean Community of Nations signed a reciprocal associate-member status agreement and issued the Cusco Declaration stating that they would create a political South American Community of Nations. The Declaration purposely invoked \"Bolívar's dream,\" noting that it would be partially realizing his vision of uniting Latin America. The original name of the union was changed to the current one, the Union of South American Nations in April 2007.\n\nFollowing the 2011 \"Declaration de Lima\", the Pacific Alliance was established in 2012 by the founding members Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Peru. , Costa Rica is in the process of joining. While membership is currently exclusively Latin American, a potential membership application by Canada is being considered favorably by some.\n\nPublic support for Latin American integration is generally high but has been declining in many South and Central American countries over time. According to one study based on Latinobarómetro data, 73 percent of Latin Americans support economic integration and 63 percent support political integration in Latin America. It was also found that in most Latin American countries (twelve out of seventeen), support for economic integration was lower in 2010 than in 1997 and support for political integration decreased in nearly all countries (fourteen out of seventeen) between 2002 and 2010. Support for economic and political integration is higher among men than among women and increases with educational level. Coinciding with the shift to the left in Latin American politics (pink tide), the political left surpassed the right—and, at least in the case of support for political integration, also the center—to become the political wing favoring integration most highly. This trend is a divergence from the picture found in Europe for support of European integration, which is generally highest among the political center.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33486314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33486314", "title": "Legends of Bikini Bottom", "text": "Legends of Bikini Bottom\n\nLegends of Bikini Bottom is an anthology series of six episodes in the American animated television series \"SpongeBob SquarePants\", as part of its seventh season. As the name suggests, the episodes have plots involving things like monsters, magic and mythical creatures. The episode called \"Trenchbillies\" first premiered on the online social networking service Facebook on January 27, 2011 before airing on Nickelodeon on January 29, 2011. The four others, titled \"Sponge-Cano!\", \"The Main Drain\", \"The Monster Who Came to Bikini Bottom\" and \"Welcome to the Bikini Bottom Triangle\" premiered on Nickelodeon as part of an hour-long special on January 28, 2011. The decision to air the series online was aimed at attracting \"the young and the restless hooked to the internet and the social media.\"\n\nIn addition to the regular series cast, Amy Sedaris, Ginnifer Goodwin and Kristen Wiig were guest stars. Tie-in promotions were made with Burger King, which released a toy line based on the series. \"Legends of Bikini Bottom\" became available on a DVD of the same name on November 16, 2010, alongside the episode called \"The Curse of the Hex\". The series received positive reviews from media critics upon release.\n\n\"Legends of Bikini Bottom\" is an anthology series of six episodes in \"SpongeBob SquarePants\". The series was released on January 27, 2011 on the online social networking service Facebook before it aired on the cable channel Nickelodeon. \"Trenchbillies\" was the first episode to air on Facebook and was written by Aaron Springer and Richard Pursel, with Andrew Overtoom serving as animation director. Nickelodeon said on Wednesday, January 27, that \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" has more than 16 million \"friends\" on Facebook. The decision of airing the series online was aimed at attracting \"the young and the restless hooked to the internet and the social media.\" In a press release, Brown Johnson, president of animation for Nickelodeon and MTVN Kids and Family Group, said \"The anthology format of \"Legends of Bikini Bottom\" provides a great opportunity to try something new where we can give SpongeBob's 16 million fans on Facebook a first look, in addition to new content on-air[...]\" Each episode was available for two weeks on Facebook.\n\nThe other four episodes called \"Sponge-Cano!\", \"The Main Drain\", \"The Monster Who Came to Bikini Bottom\" and \"Welcome to the Bikini Bottom Triangle\" premiered on Nickelodeon in an hour-long special on January 28, 2011. The hour-long premiere of \"Legends of Bikini Bottom\" was simulcast on Nick Mobile, and post premiere, it was available via Nickelodeon's download-to-own partners. On Nick.com, a dedicated page will featured clips from the special, SpongeBob trivia, games and a Patchy the Pirate-themed message board. Additionally, Nick.com launched a new \"Game of the Week\" called \"Legends of Bikini Bottom\" which is composed of six minigames that require players to maneuver SpongeBob or other characters through a different legend-themed adventure. The first game was launched on Thursday, January 20, and the remaining five was launched one each day from Monday, January 24, through Friday, January 28. To gain access to the final game, players must enter the code available only on-air during the hour-long special aired on January 28.\n\nIn addition to the regular cast, American actress Amy Sedaris and Ginnifer Goodwin guest starred. Sedaris guest starred in the episode \"Trenchbillies\" as the voice of Ma Angler. Goodwin also guest starred as the voice of a purple-haired mermaid in the episode \"Welcome to the Bikini Bottom Triangle\". She lends her voice to a teenage mermaid who steals from others through Bikini Bottom's version of the Bermuda Triangle. Brown Johnson said \"[...]Ginnifer Goodwin and Amy Sedaris have done a fantastic job voicing their characters, which enriches the entire collection of stories.\"\n\n\"Legends of Bikini Bottom\" was released on DVD of the same name before on November 16, 2010 by the Paramount Home Entertainment. The DVD features the six episodes adding the episode called \"The Curse of the Hex\". The episode was a part of the series but instead released on DVD. It guest starred \"Saturday Night Live\"s Kristen Wiig as the voice of Madame Hagfish. On December 6, 2011, the series was released on the \"SpongeBob SquarePants: The Complete 7th Season\" DVD.\n\nNickelodeon tied-in with Burger King to release a line of toys based on the series. The marketing campaign began on January 23, 2011. The toy line consisted of six different figures modeled after SpongeBob, Patrick and Mr. Krabs. While one of six toys was included free with every Burger King kids meal, extra toys were made available for purchase separately.\n\n\"Legends of Bikini Bottom\" received positive reviews from media critics. Nancy Basile of About.com positively reacted to the series and gave it a 4 out of 5 rating. She cited her favorite episodes like \"Welcome to the Bikini Bottom Triangle\" and \"The Main Drain\". She said \"Firstly, you know an episode will be funny when it's titled 'Bikini Bottom Triangle'. My children had no idea why I was laughing at the title frame.\" her favorite scenes from the episode were \"Gary's booty, watching the old sea dog spit his story and figuring out why Patrick wears cuff links.\" In another episode called \"The Main Drain\", she said \"I won't ruin the set up because it's just so funny, but my favorite line is, 'It's now or never.' You have to see it to know why.\"\n\nIn his review for the DVD Talk, Paul Mavis said \"\"SpongeBob SquarePants: Legends of Bikini Bottom\" is all-new, and therein lies what has increasingly routine: haphazard quality. Some are mildly amusing, and others blow their promising set-ups.\" He added \"Still, 'The Main Drain' and 'Trenchbillies' are fairly funny, while the magical warrior dolphin in 'Sponge-Cano!' may be worth the price of admission alone here.\"\n\nDanielle Sullivan of Babble.com said \"My 13-year-old still loves \"SpongeBob\" and his quirky underwater friends, and I have to admit that the show makes me laugh a lot. It’s one of those unique blends that appeals to kids and parents.\" Michelle Lincaster of AllVoices, on the airing of the series on Facebook, said \"\"SpongeBob SquarePants\" has a 16,000,000 fan following on Facebook so the premiere of \"The Legends of Bikini Bottom\" on Facebook shouldn't come as a surprise.\"\n\nJeff Robbins of the DVD Verdict was mixed on the series and said \"\"SpongeBob SquarePants: Legends of Bikini Bottom\", get \"Lost\".\" Citing \"The Monster Who Came to Bikini Bottom\", he said \"What is also notable here is the episode's ending, which features a brilliant call-back to an earlier seen flashback (more shades of \"Lost\") that ties up the threads of the episode as well as any Larry David penned half-hour. This first short is \"SpongeBob\" at its best.\" Robbins called \"The Main Drain\" as \"Not a good episode.\" and \"Sponge-Cano!\" as \"A strong segment.\" In reviewing \"The Curse of the Hex\", Robbins said \"Unfortunately, this lousy episode ends the disc on a sour note as a hagfish curses The Krusty Krab. The only notable aspect to this dull segment is that the hagfish is voiced by \"Saturday Night Live\"s Kristen Wiig, which, depending on your current view of the comedy institution, may make the episode more or less interesting. Either the writers got tired of attempting allusions to \"Lost\" by this point, or I simply got tired of looking for them.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "317342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317342", "title": "Mawangdui Silk Texts", "text": "Mawangdui Silk Texts\n\nThe Mawangdui Silk Texts () are Chinese philosophical and medical works written on silk which were discovered at the Mawangdui site in Changsha, Hunan, in 1973. They include some of the earliest attested manuscripts of existing texts (such as the \"I Ching\"), two copies of the \"Tao Te Ching\", a copy of \"Zhan Guo Ce\", works by Gan De and Shi Shen and previously-unknown medical texts, such as \"Wushi'er Bingfang\" (\"Prescriptions for Fifty-Two Ailments\"). Scholars arranged them into 28 types of silk books. Their approximately 120,000 words cover military strategy, mathematics, cartography and the six classical arts: ritual, music, archery, horsemanship, writing and arithmetic.\n\nThe texts were buried in tomb number three at Mawangdui (which was sealed in 168 BC), and were hidden until their late-20th-century discovery. Some were previously known only by title, and others are previously-unknown commentaries on the \"I Ching\" attributed to Confucius. In general, they follow the same sequence as the received versions, which were passed down by copying and recopying texts collected and collated during the fifth century AD. However, in some important aspects they differ noticeably from the received texts known before their discovery. \n\nThe Chinese characters in the silk texts are often only fragments of the characters used in later traditional versions. Many characters are formed by combining two simpler characters: one indicating a general category of meaning, and the other to guide pronunciation. Where the traditional texts have both components, the silk texts frequently give only the phonetic half of the character. There are several hypotheses to explain this:\n\nIn addition to partial characters mentioned above, the two-silk texts sometimes use characters different from those in later versions. This is similar to the English \"She flowered the table\" compared with \"She floured the table\", and the older version provides insight into a text's original meaning.\n\nMost received versions of the \"Tao Te Ching\" are in substantial agreement, and most text is simple and straightforward. Occasionally two versions will have a homonym, and a third text with a character which is a synonym for one of the first two characters is useful. \n\nD. C. Lau and Robert G. Henricks have made new translations of the \"Tao Te Ching\" based on the silk text, largely ignoring the received texts, although Henricks' translation compares received versions with the text found in the tomb. In 1990, sinologist Victor H. Mair translated the Ma-wang-tui version; Mair considered this earliest-known version (by 500 years) more authentic than the most-commonly-translated texts. The two silk books are part of the Cultural Relics from the Mawangdui Tombs collection at the Hunan Provincial Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34057914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34057914", "title": "Member states of the Caribbean Community", "text": "Member states of the Caribbean Community\n\nA member state of the Caribbean Community is a state that has been specified as a member state within the Treaty of Chaguaramas or any other Caribbean state that is in the opinion of the Conference, able and willing to exercise the rights and assume the obligations of membership in accordance with article 29 of the Treaty of Chaguaramas. Member states are designated as either More economically developed country (MDCs) or Less economically developed countries (LDCs). These designations are not intended to create disparity among member states. The Community was established by mainly English- (and English Creole) speaking Caribbean countries, but has since become a multilingual organisation in practice with the addition of Dutch-speaking Suriname on 4 July 1995 and French and Haitian Creole speaking Haiti on 2 July 2002. As of 4 July 2002 there are fifteen full members of the Caribbean Community, four of which are founding members.\n\nIn July 1999, Anguilla once again became involved with CARICOM when it gained associate membership. Before this, Anguilla had briefly been a part of CARICOM (1974–1980) as a constituent of the full member state of Saint Christopher-Nevis-Anguilla.\n\nThe Bahamas had begun participating in the regional cooperation and integration movement when it began attending the Heads of Government Conferences of the Commonwealth Caribbean in 1966. This practice continued even after the establishment of CARIFTA, of which The Bahamas was never a member, with The Bahamas being involved in educational cooperation and Committees established to deepen financial cooperation among CARIFTA states and the Bahamas and to transform CARIFTA into the Caribbean Community. In particular, The Bahamas was even included in a Committee of Attorneys-General tasked with examining the legal implications of forming the Caribbean Community and to draw up a draft Treaty for its formation. In April 1973, at the final meeting of the commonwealth Caribbean Heads of Government before the establishment of the Caribbean Community, the Conference welcomed the upcoming independence of The Bahamas in July 1973 and looked forward to its participation in the Caribbean Community. In late 1974, the Bahamas (as well as Haiti and Suriname) indicated that it would like to join the Community. Bahamian involvement with the Caribbean Community and regional integration continued in the same form after independence and the establishment of CARICOM as had occurred since 1966, with The Bahamas attending the second meeting of the CARICOM Heads of Government Conference in 1975 and being involved in the setting up of a special Inter-Governmental Committee on university education. In fact, the original Treaty of Chaguaramas (In Chapter I, Article 2) provided for The Bahamas to automatically join the Caribbean Community and Common Market upon application, with the Bahamas being listed alongside the actual member states as being a state to which membership of the Community may be open to. The final Conference of the Heads of Government of the Caribbean Community and The Bahamas at which this informal participation by The Bahamas continued was November 1982 Conference in Jamaica. At the next Conference, The Bahamas was formally admitted as a member of the Community.\n\nThe Dominican Republic cooperates with CARICOM (since 1992) under an umbrella organisation, CARIFORUM, an economic pact between CARICOM and the Dominican Republic with the EU. The Dominican Republic became an Observer of CARICOM in 1982 and in 1991 it presented CARICOM with a request for full membership, having first given consideration to joining the bloc in 1989. It also has an unratified free trade agreement (from 2001) with CARICOM. Within the EPA between the region and the European Commission, the Dominican Republic is given means for dispute resolution with CARICOM member-states. Under Article 234, the European Court of Justice also carries dispute resolution mechanisms between CARIFORUM and the European Union states. This is particularly useful to the Dominican Republic which is not a member of the Caribbean Court of Justice and therefore cannot use the CCJ for dispute resolution with states of CARICOM.\n\nIn 2005 the Foreign Minister of the Dominican Republic proposed for the second time that the government of the Dominican Republic wished to obtain full membership status in CARICOM. However, due to the sheer size of the Dominican Republic's population and its economy being almost as large as all the current CARICOM states combined and coupled with the Dominican Republic's checkered history of foreign policy solidarity with the CARICOM states, it is unclear whether the CARICOM states will unanimously vote to admit the Dominican Republic as a full member into the organisation. CARICOM has been working at great pains in trying to integrate with Haiti. It has been proposed that CARICOM may deepen ties with the Dominican Republic through the auspice of the Association of Caribbean States (ACS) instead, which is an organisation that stops just short of the Single market and economy which underpins CARICOM.\n\nIn July 2013, The President of the Dominican Republic, Danilo Medina, indicated that his country was still interested in joining CARICOM and appealed to CARICOM leaders meeting in Trinidad for the 40th anniversary of CARICOM to admit his country into the organization. His bid drew the support of Trinidad and Tobago's Prime Minister and the then Chairwoman of CARICOM, Kamla Persad-Bissessar, who addressed the others CARICOM heads of government by saying “The ongoing reform process in the community must be one that will make CARICOM not only more efficient and effective but more relevant as well. In this regard, may I urge you to consider expanding our membership to welcome the Dominican Republic into the CARICOM family.” It is not clear whether the CARICOM Heads of Government will agree, but the move could prove critical as the Dominican Republic increasingly allies itself both with Latin America and Central America, having become a full member state of the Central American Integration System in late June 2013 (it was previously an associate member). The call for the Dominican Republic to be admitted as a full member of CARICOM was given a boost by the position of the Prime Minister of Barbados, Freundel Stuart, who confirmed that the Dominican Republic was re-committed “to joining the movement at such time that it would be convenient for all the perceivable imperatives to be satisfied,” and that “I agree with the Prime Minister that the larger the bloc becomes, the more powerful the bloc becomes and the more diversified the areas for joint action and for integration.” Stuart also remarked that it was a healthy development when Suriname and Haiti joined the movement and that the Heads of Government want to quicken the momentum in the expansion of CARICOM to countries without British heritage.\n\nIn November 2013, CARICOM announced that it would \"suspend consideration of the request by the Dominican Republic for membership of the Caribbean Community\" in response to a Dominican court ruling which revoked citizenship from tens of thousands, mostly descendants from illegal immigrants from Haiti.\n\nThe French Republic extends to several islands in the Caribbean that are not associated with CARICOM, and are instead part of the European Union: Guadeloupe, Martinique, Saint-Martin, Saint Barthélemy and French Guiana. The CARICOM-DR-EU Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) presently provides these areas with access to CARICOM markets. It was announced during summer of 2012 that the outer region area of Martinique, was pushing for France to become an Associate Member. Trepubhe Foreign Minister of France, Laurent Fabius, agreed to France being an associate member of CARICOM. At the Thirty-Fourth Meeting of the Heads of Government Conference in July 2013, the Heads of Government received the report of the Technical Working Group (TWG) established to review and provide recommendations on the terms and conditions of Membership and Associate Membership of the Community. They also agreed that the applications for Associate Membership of France (French Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique) and the Kingdom of the Nertherlands (Curaçao and St. Maarten), would require further deliberation at the level of Heads of Government.\n\nIn January 2015, it was reported that representatives of the French Republic had begun discussion with CARICOM on their application for associate membership. Teams from French Guiana (led by the President of the French Guiana Regional Council, Rodolphe Alexandre) and from Martinique met with CARICOM's Secretary-General Irwin LaRocque on 22 January 2015 and 21 January 2015 respectively. A team from Guadeloupe is due to hold similar discussion in February 2015.\n\nThe discussions focused on regional cooperation, the terms and conditions for associate membership and the overall relation between the French Republic and CARICOM. Rodolphe Alexandre said that support in French Guiana strongly agreed with convergence of the Caribbean in health, climate change, education, economics and issues of bio-diversity. He also noted that French Guiana had already engaged with individual Community member states on issues related to mining (in this case, with Suriname) and energy (Trinidad & Tobago).\n\nThe first attempt by Haiti to join CARICOM began on 6 May 1974, when Haiti officially applied for membership in the Community after Edner Brutus, the Haitian Minister of Foreign Affairs, sent a letter to William Demas, CARICOM's Secretary-General formally applying for membership. Shortly after that request, Haiti lobbied for admission, dealing mostly with Percival J. Patterson, then Jamaica’s minister of industry, commerce, and tourism. Patterson welcomed the initiative and promised Jamaica’s unconditional support. Despite Patterson’s efforts, the CARICOM secretariat did not respond positively to the request, and CARICOM leadership decided to pursue a special type of relationship with Haiti. Haiti was later accepted as an observer in 1982 following an application for closer relations with the Community. On July 3, 1997, almost 25 years later, CARICOM chairman and Prime Minister of Jamaica Percival J. Patterson announced that Haiti was to become the fifteenth member country of CARICOM after the Heads of Government, in accordance with Article 29 of the (Original) Treaty of Chaguaramas had unanimously agreed to it. This announcement was made alongside Haitian President René Préval at an unscheduled joint press conference in Montego Bay, Jamaica. Technically, Haiti had joined the Caribbean Community but not the common market (similar to The Bahamas' membership). It was later announced that, in accordance with Article 29(2) of the Treaty of Chaguaramas, a CARICOM technical working group would visit Haiti to consult with the Haitian government on the terms and conditions of full membership in CARICOM. The decision to admit Haiti raised a host of technical issues, including Haiti’s CARICOM dues, the extent to which French would also become an official language of CARICOM, and the extent to which existing CARICOM provisions allowing for the unfettered movement of member nationals would apply to Haiti. In the interim, Haiti was invited to participate in the deliberations of CARICOM’s organs and bodies.\n\nAt the Twentieth Heads of Government meeting, in Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, the Heads of Government and Haiti exchanged notes agreeing on the terms and conditions under which Haiti would accede to Membership of the Community. The Heads of Government looked forward to the early deposit of an Instrument of Accession by Haiti to the Treaty of Chaguaramas.\n\nIn preparation for the finalization of Haiti's membership of the Community, in February 2001 at the Twelfth Inter-Sessional Meeting of the Conference of Heads of Government held in Barbados, the Conference emphasised the necessity for Haiti to adhere, as is required of all Community Member States, to the Charter of Civil Society, and in keeping with Haiti's undertaking as a condition of its Terms of Accession to the Caribbean Community The Conference also agreed at the invitation of President Aristide, to explore the possibility of a joint CARICOM/International Mission to Haiti and decided to establish a CARICOM Office in Haiti at the earliest possible opportunity, and to foster contacts at all levels between the citizens of Haiti and the people of the Caribbean Community.\n\nHaiti was admitted as the fifteenth Member State of the Caribbean Community on 2 July 2002 following the deposit of the Instrument of Accession by Haiti for membership at the 23rd Meeting of the Conference of Heads of Government in Georgetown, Guyana after Haiti's parliament ratified the Treaty of Chaguaramas as well as the terms and conditions for Haiti's entry as a full member of the Caribbean Community including the Single Market and Economy in May 2002.\n\nAruba is an observer of CARICOM, as was the Netherlands Antilles before its dissolution in 2010. No official report has been published on the eligibility for observer status of the Caribbean countries Curaçao and Sint Maarten and the three special municipalities of the Netherlands formed by the split.\n\nThe Netherlands Antilles had applied for the status of associate membership in 2005, and both Curaçao and Sint Maarten launched applications to become associate members in CARICOM after their secession. In February 2012, the Prime Minister of Sint Maarten, Sarah Wescot-Williams said she was pleased that a working group had been set up in Caricom to examine St. Maarten's request for associate membership and was looking forward to its report. Former Caribbean Association of Industry and Commerce (CAIC) Secretary Ludwig Ouenniche said the St. Maarten Chamber of Commerce, of which he also served as a board member, has been \"aggressive in advising\" the St. Maarten government to move towards a closer relationship with CARICOM over the years due to the Chamber's membership in the CAIC. The benefits for St. Maarten are vast, especially the ability to tap into funding and programmes not accessible now because of non-membership, he added. Caricom countries are benefiting from European Union funding and other sources of financing shut off to St. Maarten because of its constitutional position as a country within the Dutch Kingdom; associate membership would clear this barrier. Among the benefits would be access to cheaper generic medication to treat, for example, HIV/AIDS thanks to Caricom agreements and programmes. What makes this move even more important is the benefit the country would be able to reap for the large number of people living in St. Maarten who are originally from Caricom member countries; according to Ouenniche \"some 65 per cent\" of St. Maarten's population is of Caricom origin.\n\nIn September 2015, a delegation from Sint Maarten met with the Caricom Secretary-General to continue discussing the terms and conditions of the associate membership status that St. Maarten is seeking. The delegation also received information on the work, structure and ongoing reforms of the Secretariat and the Community. As an observer, St. Maarten has attended meetings of the COHSOD (Council for Human and Social Development) and participates in the Caribbean Public Health Agency (CARPHA) and offers the Caribbean Examinations Council (CXC) curricula and examinations in its schools. In October 2016, at the margins of an EU-Caribbean conference on sustainable energy in Bridgetown, Barbados, the Prime Minister of Sint Maarten, William Marlin, met with CARICOM's Secretary General Ambassador Mr. Irwin LaRocque to discuss the progress of Sint Maarten's application for associate membership and the potential for further, structured regional cooperation between CARICOM/CARIFORUM and the Caribbean Overseas Countries and Territories (OCTs) of the EU. Ambassador LaRocque informed Prime Minister Marlin that the associate membership applications of Sint Maarten, Curacao and Aruba were being attended to be a technical working group established specially for devising the terms and conditions of associate membership, as such terms had not been spelled out in the Revised Treaty of Chaguaramas. LaRocque also noted that CARICOM was working on an enlargement policy for new member states to be submitted to the Heads of Government for agreement by the end of the year. Sint Maarten had officially applied for associate membership of CARICOM in January 2014 when it sent an official letter of interest. \n\nIn the 1973, around the time the Caribbean Free Trade Association was being transformed into CARICOM, Suriname was granted Liaison Status/Observer Status in the Association. This followed on from a decision of the Conference of Commonwealth Caribbean Heads of Government in 1972 to study the possibility of extending the integration movement to include all the Caribbean islands and Suriname. This marked the beginning of the re-engagement of Suriname and Anglophone Caribbean in terms of economic and political cooperation, following a period from 1926 to the 1960s when representatives from Suriname first attended the British Guiana and West Indian Labour Conferences (BGWILC) and then became members of the Caribbean Labour Congress. The early Labour Conferences had called for the establishment of a federation in the British West Indies, and eventually also led to the establishment of the CLC in 1945. The CLC itself was active until 1956, at which point it was dissolved following first a schism in the regional trade union movement that reflected the global split between the World Federation of Trade Unions (WFTU) and the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU) in 1949, and secondly the establishment of a rival body, the Caribbean Division of ORIT (the ICFTU Inter American Regional Organisation of Workers) or CADORIT in 1952. CADORIT continued to consist of representatives from the British and Dutch West Indies (including Suriname) and was transformed in the Caribbean Congress of Labour (CCL) in 1960, again with the same membership that included Suriname. By then however the early drive of the BGWILC/CLC to promote economic and political cooperation among its delegates' member territories had lost steam, partly because of the successful achievement of a federation among some of the British West Indian territories in 1958 and because that very federation began to falter in 1961-1962. The prospects for economic integration of Suriname with the Anglophone Caribbean only briefly experienced a resurgence in 1964-1965 as Eric Williams had engaged in (ultimately failed) diplomacy to establish a Caribbean Economic Community encompassing all of the Anglophone Caribbean, the Dutch West Indies (Netherlands Antilles and Suriname) and the French West Indies.\n\nOn 14 April 1974, Suriname (along with Haiti) signified its desire to join CARICOM at the ceremony in St. Lucia marking the signing of the Treaty of Chaguaramas by the LDCs. Talks of regional cooperation between Suriname and CARICOM were undertaken in the early 1970s, but integration was not further pursued, in part due to the perceived difficulties of integrating Suriname's very different legal system with that of the Commonwealth Caribbean countries. Suriname continued to be an observer with regards to CARICOM after it came into existence, participating in a number of meetings of functional committees since the 1970s. In the 1980s, Suriname expressed renewed interest in CARICOM with initiatives to seek closer ties with the Community being welcomed in January 1982 by then Secretary-General Dr. Kurleigh King on a visit to the country and the Surinamese application for closer relations with the Community being considered at the November 1982 Conference of the Heads of Government. However, opposition by the member states to fuller Surinamese participation in CARICOM developed after the December 1990 \"telephone coup\" in Suriname, although Suriname retained observer status. After democracy and civilian control was restored through the 1991 elections, Suriname began taking concrete steps to open its economy, emerge from isolation, and forge a new regional identity. As a result, the ties between Suriname and the Community deepened and a Coordinating Unit for CARICOM Affairs was established and located in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Suriname. The CARICOM Coordinating Unit in Suriname had a core of three officers and was assisted in its task by CARICOM focal point officers representing the various other ministries with a supportive role being played by the Embassy of Guyana.\n\nAt the Second Special Meeting of the Conference of Heads of Government in October 1992, it was affirmed by the Conference that membership or a special form of relationship should be open to Suriname with regards to the Community. In 1993 an Action Plan for Cooperation among the Caribbean Community, Suriname and the Group of Three was negotiated covering a wide range of areas including business, small enterprise development, tourism, transport, culture, science, agriculture, multilateral financing, and hemispheric trade. In 1994 Suriname applied for full membership of the Community and Common Market, with the application being welcomed by the Heads of Government at the Fifteenth Meeting of the Conference. It was agreed to establish a review process including a small technical group to develop, with the Government of Suriname, under the co-ordination of the Bureau of the Conference, details with respect to both the application for membership of the Community, and the transitional arrangements with respect to membership of the Common Market. The Conference agreed that they would seek to make a determination of the application at the next Inter-Sessional Meeting of the Conference. At that Inter-Sessional Meeting the Heads of Government agreed to approve the application by Suriname for membership in the Caribbean Community and Common Market with effect from the Sixteenth Meeting of the Conference, in July 1995, on terms and conditions agreed by both sides.\n\nOn 4 July 1995, The Conference formally admitted Suriname as the fourteenth Member of the Caribbean Community, following the deposit of the Instruments of Accession to the Treaty of Chaguaramas and the Common Market Annex. The instrument of Accession to the Common Market made provision for Suriname to implement the arrangements relating to the Common Market effective 1 January 1996. Suriname's accession to the Community and the Common Market led to significant changes in Suriname's external trade policy as prior to accession, a multiple tariff regime ranging from 0 to 100 percent under the Brussels Tariff Nomenclature (BTN) classification system was in force. In preparation for CARICOM membership, this system was replaced in 1994 with the Harmonized System (HS) used as the basis for determining duty-free entry of goods of CARICOM origin and for applying the common external tariff. Suriname's 1996 entry into the free trade area was immediate with no major transition phase contemplated in the accession agreement apart from some exceptions granted under the Treaty of Chaguaramas and a few others negotiated by Suriname upon entry.\n\nIn 2007, the U.S. Virgin Islands government announced it would begin seeking ties with CARICOM. At the time it was not clear what membership status the USVI would obtain should they join CARICOM with the most likely possibility being observer status, considering fellow U.S. Caribbean territory Puerto Rico's current observer status. In 2012, it was confirmed by the USVI Commissioner of Tourism, Beverly Nicholson-Doty, that the U.S. Virgin Islands government has been lobbying for observer status within CARICOM.\n\nAt a meeting of the Caribbean Tourism Organization in Martinique on October 19, 2013, the Governor of the United States Virgin Islands (USVI) John de Jongh said his administration has drafted legislation that will allow visitors from the CARICOM full members and associate members to enter that territory without a US visa. This comes as part of the USVI government’s plans to encourage more CARICOM nationals to visit the USVI.\n\nIf successful the proposal would recreate the visa-free regime which existed for CARICOM nationals travelling to the USVI prior to 1975. At that time, the United States imposed visa requirements on Commonwealth Caribbean nationals travelling to the USVI, resulting in the 1975 Caricom Heads of Government Conference passing a resolution expressing concerning for the viability of the LIAT airline as a result of the new visa requirements and calling on the United States to revise the new visa policy and to implement the required measures arising from decisions at a meeting of Labour Departments and Ministries of English-speaking Caribbean countries in St. Thomas to institute screening procedures in order regularize the immigration of CARICOM nationals to the USVI.\n\nde Jongh said the proposal has received bi-partisan support in the US House of Representatives as well as support the Senate and the Department of Homeland Security, but admits he doesn't know how soon the regime could be implemented, noting the pace of legislation in the U.S. Congress.\n\nThe governor is, however, confident of a positive outcome having already had discussions on the subject with officials from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security “to come up with a regime which they will feel comfortable with.”\n\nde Jongh said the US Virgin Islands wants closer relations with the 15-member CARICOM grouping and wants an opportunity to share in the movement of Caribbean nationals throughout the region and is convinced that making travel easier for Caricom countries' nationals will be beneficial to the territories.\n\n“We recognise that with respect to sports tourism, sailing events and shopping, the region presents tremendous opportunity”, De Jongh told regional journalists.\n\nThe initiative by de Jongh is actually not new having been first launched in 2012, when de Jongh was quoted as saying that the “waivers would be specifically for individuals who are traveling for sporting events, medical services, and general tourism”.\n\nde Jongh is further quoted as saying: “We fully believe that such a change would broaden our reach into neighboring Caribbean markets. The territory’s sporting events are growing in popularity and prestige, especially for competitions in volleyball, track, tennis, swimming and sailing. An amendment to the immigration bill would allow for easier travel for athletes, as well as for individuals seeking top-notch medical care or just looking for a great place for a vacation, that is close to home.”\n\nThe bill was relaunched (entitled The Virgin Islands Visa Waiver Act of 2013) and introduced into the U.S. House of Representatives on May 14, 2013 and was referred to the House Judiciary's Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security. It was not enacted during the life of that Congress.\n\nOn April 29, 2015 the new Virgin Islands delegate, Stacey Plaskett, reintroduced the identical bill (now entitled The Virgin Islands Visa Waiver Act of 2015) to the U.S. House of Representatives. On the same day it was referred to the House Committee on the Judiciary and then on June 1, 2015 it was referred to the House Judiciary's Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security Like the 2013 bill, this one also died during the life of the Congress, and the legislation was reintroduced by Plaskett in 2017 (The Virgin Islands Visa Waiver Act of 2017) in the next Congress.\n\nDelegate Plaskett, stated that the Bill (along with two others introduced by her) were geared towards improving the economy of the US Virgin Islands, with the special visa waiver program in particular aimed at boosting tourism by allowing the US Virgin Islands host more participants in seasonal regional sporting events and patients intending to access the US Virgin Islands' medical facilities without the need for visas.\n\nCaricom nationals would still require a visa to travel to the U.S. mainland and other U.S. territories.\n\nAlthough the group has close ties with Cuba, that nation was excluded due to lack of full democratic internal political arrangement.\n\n"}
{"id": "8254740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8254740", "title": "Metadata Encoding and Transmission Standard", "text": "Metadata Encoding and Transmission Standard\n\nThe Metadata Encoding and Transmission Standard (METS) is a metadata standard for encoding descriptive, administrative, and structural metadata regarding objects within a digital library, expressed using the XML schema language of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). The standard is maintained as part of the MARC standards of the Library of Congress, and is being developed as an initiative of the Digital Library Federation (DLF).\n\nMETS is an XML Schema designed for the purpose of:\n\nDepending on its use, a METS document could be used in the role of Submission Information Package (SIP), Archival Information Package (AIP), or Dissemination Information Package (DIP) within the Open Archival Information System (OAIS) Reference Model.\n\nMaintaining a library of digital objects requires maintaining metadata about those objects. The metadata necessary for successful management and use of digital objects is both more extensive than and different from the metadata used for managing collections of printed works and other physical materials. METS is intended to promote the preservation of, and interoperability between digital libraries. \n\nThe open flexibility of METS means that there is not a prescribed vocabulary which allows many different types of institutions, with many different document types, to utilize METS. The customization of METS makes it highly functional internally, but creates limitations for interoperability. Interoperability becomes difficult when the exporting and importing institutions have used vocabularies. As a workaround for this problem the creation of institutional profiles has become popular. These profiles document the implementation of METS specific to that institution helping to map content in order for exchanged METS documents to be more usable across institutions.\n\nAs early as 1996 the University of California, Berkeley began working toward the development of a system that combined encoding for an outline of a digital object's structure with metadata for that object. In 1998 this work was expanded upon by the Making of America II project (MoAII). An important objective of this project was the creation of a standard for digital objects that would include defined metadata for the descriptive, administrative, and structural aspects of a digital object. A type of structural and metadata encoding system using an XML Document Type Definition (DTD) was the result of these efforts. The MoAII DTD was limited in that it did not provide flexibility in which metadata terms could be used for the elements in the descriptive, administrative, and structural metadata portions of the object. In 2001, a new version of the DTD was developed that used namespaces separate from the system rather than the vocabulary of the previous DTD. This revision was the foundation for the current METS schema, officially named in April of that year.\n\nAny METS document has the following features:\n\n\nA profile is expressed as an XML document. There is a schema for this purpose. The profile expresses the requirements that a METS document must satisfy.\nA sufficiently explicit METS Profile may be considered a \"data standard\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37353843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37353843", "title": "Monterozzi necropolis", "text": "Monterozzi necropolis\n\nThe Monterozzi necropolis is an Etruscan necropolis on a hill east of Tarquinia in Lazio, Italy. The necropolis has about 6,000 graves, the oldest of which dates to the 7th century BC. About 200 of the gravestones are decorated with frescos. Monterozzi was designated as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2004, notable as \"the depiction of daily life in the frescoed tombs, many of which are replicas of Etruscan houses, is a unique testimony to this vanished culture\".\nThe burial ground dates from the Iron Age, or Villanovan period (9th century BC), up to Roman times.\nFrom the Villanovan period simple round tombs carved from rock for cremation burials can be seen at the site.\n\nTowards the end of the 8th c. BC, the first funerary chambers appeared as family tombs due to the rise to power of an aristocracy. These appeared on the surface as tumuli, sometimes assuming impressive proportions to enhance the power and prestige of the nobles, as can be seen especially in the so-called King and Queen tombs. There were about 600 tumuli still visible in the 19th century, following which many were razed after excavation.\n\nThe tumuli usually covered subterranean chambers carved into the rock, containing sarcophagi and personal possessions of the deceased, and many of which have wall paintings.\n\nThe earliest sarcophagi are carved with the image of the deceased supine on the lid. The later and more numerous types show him or her reclining on the left side, facing the spectator and frequently holding a libation vessel; occasionally a man displays an inscribed scroll listing his ancestry and the magisterial offices he occupied. During the second half of the 4th century BC sculpted and painted sarcophagi of nenfro, marble and alabaster came into use. They were deposited on rock-carved benches or against the walls in the now very large underground chambers.\n\nSarcophagi were also decorated with reliefs of symbolic or mythological content, often derived from Tarentine models. Sarcophagi of this type, which continue until the second century, are found in such numbers at Tarquinia that they must have been manufactured locally. The walls of the tomb-chambers of the late period are painted with underworld demons escorting the dead on their journey to the beyond, scenes in the nether world, processions of magistrates and other symbols of the rank of the eminent members of the families buried there.\nAmong the most notable painted tombs famous for the artistic quality of their frescoes are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23639886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23639886", "title": "Music Forum", "text": "Music Forum\n\nMusic Forum was an academic journal (published in the form of a book series) specializing in music theory and analysis, with a particular focus on Schenkerian theory and analysis. It was published between 1967 and 1987.\n\nAccording to David Carson Berry, \"Music Forum\" (\"MF\") was \"[f]ounded and edited jointly by Felix Salzer and William J. Mitchell,\" and was \"published sporadically\" from its debut in 1967 \"until its sixth volume ... in 1987, the year after Salzer's death. As the editors proclaimed in the inaugural volume, \"MF\" was to have 'a definite and unifying point of view' traceable to Schenker's ideas (and their extensions). Although many of the articles in \"MF\" would address tonal music of the period studied by Schenker himself, the goal was also to publish the work of those 'who recognize the more universal values that lie dormant in [Schenker's] ideas and are capable of providing valuable insights into earlier and later music.' Whereas Schenker-influenced studies of twentieth-century or 'post-tonal' music had become relatively frequent following Salzer's \"Structural Hearing\" (1952), similar approaches to 'pre-tonal' music had been nearly non-existent since Salzer's \"Sinn und Wesen der abendlandischen Mehrstimmigkeit\" (1935), which was not widely available in the U.S. One of \"MF\"'s legacies was changing that, as five such articles appeared in its initial two volumes ...\"\n"}
{"id": "8768899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8768899", "title": "Obstructionism", "text": "Obstructionism\n\nObstructionism is the practice of deliberately delaying or preventing a process or change, especially in politics.\n\nAn obstructionist causes problems. Neuman and Baron (1998) identify obstructionism as one of the three dimensions that encompass the range of workplace aggression. In this context, obstructionism is \"behaviors intended to hinder an employee from performing their job or the organization from accomplishing its objectives.\".\n\nObstructionism or policy of obstruction denotes the deliberate interference with the progress of a legislation by various means such as filibustering or slow walking which may depend on the respective parliamentary procedures.\n\nObstructionism can also take the form of widespread agreement to oppose policies from the other side of a political debate or dispute.\n\nIn September 2010, Jon Stewart of \"The Daily Show\" announced the Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear, an event dedicated to ending political obstructionism in American mass media.\nThe most common tactic is the filibuster which consists of extending the debate upon a proposal in order to delay or completely prevent a vote on its passage. \n\nAnother form of parliamentary obstruction practiced in the United States and other countries is called \"slow walking\". It specifically refers to the extremely slow speed with which legislators walk to the podium to cast their ballots. For example, in Japan this tactic is known as a \"cow walk\", and in Hawaii it's known as a \"Devil's Gambit\". Consequently, slow walking is also used as a synonym for obstructionism itself.\n\nJohn O'Connor Power, Joe Biggar, Frank Hugh O'Donnell, and Charles Stewart Parnell, Irish nationalists; all were famous for making long speeches in the British House of Commons. In a letter to Cardinal Cullen, 6 August 1877, The O'Donoghue, MP for County Kerry, denounced the obstruction policy: \"It is Fenianism in a new form.\" The tactic deadlocked legislation and 'the autumn Session of 1882 was entirely devoted to the reform of the Rules of Procedure with a view to facilitating the despatch of business.' Sir Leslie Ward's \"Spy\" cartoon of John O'Connor Power appeared in \"Vanity Fair\"s \"Men of the Day\" series, 25 December 1886, and was captioned \"the brains of Obstruction\".\n\nTwo other famous obstructionists are Jesse Helms and Mme Flemington.\n\nNewt Gingrich brought obsturctionism to the United States Congress \"crippling the congress\" in an attempt to make the minority rule. \n\nJohn Boehner \"chalks up his theatrical obstructionism to the reality of being minority leader\" further developing obstructionist tactics. \n\nMitch McConnell has been accused of obstructionism for his tactics during the Obama administration.\n\nChuck Schumer has been labeled as obstructionist for similar tactics during the current Trump administration.\n\nJane Stanford, 'That Irishman The Life and Times of John O'Connor Power', Part Two, 'Parliamentary Manoeuvres', pp 77–84, 'A Change of Government, pp 105–107.\n"}
{"id": "22209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22209", "title": "Orthography", "text": "Orthography\n\nAn orthography is a set of conventions for writing a language. It includes norms of spelling, hyphenation, capitalization, word breaks, emphasis, and punctuation.\n\nMost significant languages in the modern era are written down, and for most such languages a standard orthography has been developed, often based on a standard variety of the language, and thus exhibiting less dialect variation than the spoken language. Sometimes there may be variation in a language's orthography, as between American and British spelling in the case of English orthography. In some languages orthography is regulated by language academies, although for many languages (including English) there are no such authorities, and orthography develops in a more organic way. Even in the latter languages, a significant amount of consensus arises naturally, although a maximum of consistency or standardization occurs only when prescriptively imposed according to style guides.\n\nThe English word \"orthography\" dates from the 15th century. It comes from the French \"orthographie\", from Latin \"orthographia\", which derives from Greek ὀρθός \"orthós\", \"correct\", and γράφειν \"gráphein\", \"to write\".\n\nOrthography is largely concerned with matters of spelling, and in particular the relationship between phonemes and graphemes in a language. Other elements that may be considered part of orthography include hyphenation, capitalization, word breaks, emphasis, and punctuation. Orthography thus describes or defines the set of symbols used in writing a language, and the rules regarding how to use those symbols.\n\nMost natural languages developed as oral languages, and writing systems have usually been crafted or adapted as ways of representing the spoken language. The rules for doing this tend to become standardized for a given language, leading to the development of an orthography that is generally considered \"correct\". In linguistics the term \"orthography\" is often used to refer to any method of writing a language, without judgment as to right and wrong, with a scientific understanding that orthographic standardization exists on a spectrum of strength of convention. The original sense of the word, though, implies a dichotomy of correct and incorrect, and the word is still most often used to refer specifically to a thoroughly standardized, prescriptively correct, way of writing a language. A distinction may be made here between \"etic\" and \"emic\" viewpoints: the purely descriptive (etic) approach, which simply considers any system that is actually used—and the emic view, which takes account of language users' perceptions of correctness.\n\nOrthographic units, such as letters of an alphabet, are technically called graphemes. These are a type of abstraction, analogous to the phonemes of spoken languages; different physical forms of written symbols are considered to represent the same grapheme if the differences between them are not significant for meaning. For example, different forms of the letter \"b\" are all considered to represent a single grapheme in the orthography of, say, English.\nGraphemes or sequences of them are sometimes placed between angle brackets, as in or . This distinguishes them from phonemic transcription, which is placed between slashes (, ), and from phonetic transcription, which is placed between square brackets (, ).\n\nThe writing systems on which orthographies are based can be divided into a number of types, depending on what type of unit each symbol serves to represent. The principal types are \"logographic\" (with symbols representing words or morphemes), \"syllabic\" (with symbols representing syllables), and \"alphabetic\" (with symbols roughly representing phonemes). Many writing systems combine features of more than one of these types, and a number of detailed classifications have been proposed. Japanese is an example of a language that can be written in all three: logographic kanji, syllabic hiragana and katakana, and alphabetic romaji. \n\nOrthographies that use alphabets and syllabaries are based on the principle that the written symbols (graphemes) correspond to units of sound of the spoken language: phonemes in the former case, and syllables in the latter. However, in virtually all cases, this correspondence is not exact. Different languages' orthographies offer different degrees of correspondence between spelling and pronunciation. English orthography, for example, is highly irregular, whereas the orthographies of languages such as Russian, Spanish and Finnish represent pronunciation much more faithfully, although the correspondence between letters and phonemes is still not exact. Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian orthographies are remarkably consistent: approximation of the principle \"one letter per sound\".\n\nAn orthography in which the correspondences between spelling and pronunciation are highly complex or inconsistent is called a \"deep orthography\" (or less formally, the language is said to have \"irregular spelling\"). An orthography with relatively simple and consistent correspondences is called \"shallow\" (and the language has \"regular spelling\").\n\nOne of the main reasons for which spelling and pronunciation deviate is that sound changes taking place in the spoken language are not always reflected in the orthography, and hence spellings correspond to historical rather than present-day pronunciation. One consequence of this is that many spellings come to reflect a word's morphophonemic structure rather than its purely phonemic structure (for example, the English regular past tense morpheme is consistently spelled \"-ed\" in spite of its different pronunciations in various words). This is discussed further at .\n\nThe syllabary systems of Japanese (hiragana and katakana) are examples of almost perfectly shallow orthographies—the kana correspond with almost perfect consistency to the spoken syllables, although with a few exceptions where symbols reflect historical or morphophonemic features: notably the use of ぢ \"ji\" and づ \"zu\" (rather than じ \"ji\" and ず \"zu\", their pronunciation in standard Tokyo dialect) when the character is a voicing of an underlying ち or つ (see rendaku), and the use of は, を, and へ to represent the sounds わ, お, and え, as relics of historical kana usage.\n\nThe Korean \"hangul\" system was also originally an extremely shallow orthography, but as a representation of the modern language it frequently also reflects morphophonemic features.\n\nFor full discussion of degrees of correspondence between spelling and pronunciation in alphabetic orthographies, including reasons why such correspondence may break down, see Phonemic orthography.\n\nAn orthography based on the principle that symbols correspond to phonemes may, in some cases, lack characters to represent all the phonemes or all the phonemic distinctions in the language. This is called a defective orthography. An example in English is the lack of any indication of stress. Another is the digraph \"th\", which represents two different phonemes (as in \"then\" and \"thin\"). A more systematic example is that of abjads like the Arabic and Hebrew alphabets, in which the short vowels are normally left unwritten and must be inferred by the reader.\n\nWhen an alphabet is borrowed from its original language for use with a new language—as has been done with the Latin alphabet for many languages, or Japanese Katakana for non-Japanese words—it often proves defective in representing the new language's phonemes. Sometimes this problem is addressed by the use of such devices as digraphs (such as \"sh\" and \"ch\" in English, where pairs of letters represent single sounds), diacritics (like the caron on the letters \"š\" and \"č\", which represent those same sounds in Czech), or the addition of completely new symbols (as some languages have introduced the letter \"w\" to the Latin alphabet) or of symbols from another alphabet, such as the rune \"þ\" in Icelandic.\n\nAfter the classical period, Greek developed a lowercase letter system that introduced diacritic marks to enable foreigners to learn pronunciation and in some cases, grammatical features. However, as pronunciation of letters changed over time, the diacritic marks were reduced to representing the stressed syllable. In Modern Greek typesetting, this system has been simplified to only have a single accent to indicate which syllable is stressed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9302598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9302598", "title": "Phonetic reversal", "text": "Phonetic reversal\n\nPhonetic reversal is the process of reversing the phonemes or phones of a word or phrase. When the reversal is identical to the original, the word or phrase is called a phonetic palindrome. Phonetic reversal is not entirely identical to backmasking, which is specifically the reversal of recorded sound. This is because pronunciation in speech causes a reversed diphthong to sound different in either direction (e.g. \"eye\" becoming \"yah\" ), or differently articulate a consonant depending on where it lies in a word, hence creating an imperfect reversal.\n\nBackmasking involves not only the reversal of the order of phonemes or phones, but the reversal of the allophonic realizations of those phonemes. Strictly speaking, a reversal of phonemes will still result in allophones appropriate for the new position; for example, if a word with a final /t/ is reversed so that the /t/ is initial, the initial /t/ will be aspirated in line with the conventional allophonic patterns of English phonology.\n\nAccording to proponents of reverse speech, phonetic reversal occurs unknowingly during normal speech.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53356159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53356159", "title": "Political authority", "text": "Political authority\n\nIn political philosophy and ethics, political authority describes any of the moral principles legitimizing differences between individuals' rights and duties by virtue of their relationship with the state. Political authority grants members of a government the right to rule over citizens using coercion if necessary (i.e., political legitimacy), while imposing an obligation for the citizens to obey government orders (i.e., political obligation).\n\nA central question in political philosophy is \"To what extent is political authority legitimate?\" Views range from political authority having no legitimacy (philosophical anarchism) to political authority being virtually unlimited in scope (totalitarianism).\n"}
{"id": "12804607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12804607", "title": "Politics of Harry Potter", "text": "Politics of Harry Potter\n\nThere are many published theories about the politics of the Harry Potter books by J. K. Rowling, which range from them containing criticism of racism to anti-government sentiments. According to \"Inside Higher Ed\", doctoral theses have been devoted to the Harry Potter books. There are also several university courses centred on analysis of the Potter series, including an upper division political science course.\n\n\"Time\" magazine noted the political and social aspects of Harry Potter in their 2007 Person of the Year issue where Rowling placed third behind politicians Vladimir Putin and Al Gore. \"Harry Potter\"s potential social and political impact was called similar to the 19th-century phenomenon of Harriet Beecher Stowe's popular, but critically maligned book, \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\", which fuelled the abolitionist movement leading up to the American Civil War.\n\nWhen asked about the politics and message in \"Harry Potter\", Rowling explained, \"I wanted Harry to leave our world and find exactly the same problems in the wizarding world. So you have the intent to impose a hierarchy, you have bigotry, and this notion of purity, which is this great fallacy, but it crops up all over the world. People like to think themselves superior and that if they can pride themselves in nothing else they can pride themselves on perceived purity. [...]. It wasn't really exclusively that. I think you can see in the Ministry even before it's taken over, there are parallels to regimes we all know and love.\" She also said, \"You should question authority and you should not assume that the establishment or the press tells you all of the truth.\"\n\nThe \"Wall Street Journal\" compared Neville Chamberlain to Rowling's Cornelius Fudge, saying both were eager to help their constituents look the other way to avoid war. \"Throughout the '30s, Chamberlain, fearing that Churchill was out for his job, conducted a campaign against his fellow Tory. Chamberlain tried evading war with Germany, and ridiculed Churchill as a 'warmonger'. He used \"The Times\"—the government's house organ—to attack Churchill and suppress dispatches from abroad about the Nazis that would have vindicated him.\" Rowling confirmed Chamberlain was her inspiration in the Spanish newspaper magazine \"XLSemanal\".\n\nRowling also told the Dutch newspaper \"de Volkskrant\" that Voldemort was modeled on Hitler and Stalin, as a megalomaniac and paranoid figure, and that she was influenced by the Second World War, which is \"anchored in all our minds\": discussing Draco Malfoy, she claimed \"Draco Malfoy does indeed stand for that type of boy. He wouldn’t have killed Dumbledore, he couldn’t. As long as things are imaginary, okay, but once it becomes reality, the thing becomes more difficult.\", on the other hand, \"No, that I gave him that light blonde hair is not because I wanted to make him into a scary Nazi. You give your characters the appearance that you find attractive\".\n\n\"Entertainment Weekly\" noted that the post-9/11 generation's \"ideas about war, about leadership, about the dangers of consolidation of power and of dictatorship, about the importance of dissent, and about heroism and sacrifice, have been shaped at least in part by Rowling,\" and that their concept of freedom of speech has been influenced by Rowling's weathering of her books' routine challenges.\n\nBill O'Reilly joined in the political fray over Harry Potter character Albus Dumbledore's outing by asking if it was part of a \"gay agenda\" to indoctrinate children. He called J. K. Rowling a provocateur for telling fans about Dumbledore's sexuality after the books were written. His guest, \"Entertainment Weekly\" Senior Editor Tina Jordan, called his \"indoctrination\" claims \"a shallow argument\", saying \"indoctrination is a very strong word\" because \"we all know gay people, whether we know it or not.\" O'Reilly continued the following day saying that the real problem is Rowling is teaching \"tolerance\" and \"parity for homosexuals with heterosexuals\". His guest Dennis Miller said that tolerance was good and didn't think you could indoctrinate a child into being gay.\n\nZenit, a news agency dedicated to promoting the message of the Catholic Church, accused Rowling of betraying her readers by disclosing Dumbledore's sexuality, and said Rowling is the wealthiest woman in Britain thanks to the lack of political, social or moral propaganda in her books. The head of Human Life International, an American-based Roman Catholic activist pro-life organisation, taking a negative view of the books and \"their literary offspring\", said that Harry Potter indoctrinates young souls in the language and mechanics of the occult and said that Rowling's portrayal of Dumbledore socialises if not indoctrinates young people into tolerance of gays. The \"Berkeley Beacon\" said that one parent's perception of indoctrination is another's education, in their article, \"No Politics in Harry Potter\", which countered charges that Rowling promoted homosexuality in her books. Discussing the controversy, Rowling told the BBC that \"Christian fundamentalists were never my base\" and thought it ridiculous to question if a gay person could be a moral compass in the 21st century.\n\nDiscussing the values and morality of her characters Draco and Dudley, Rowling explained that both were indoctrinated with their parents' beliefs. \"The moment Draco got what he thought he wanted, to become a Death Eater, and given a mission by Lord Voldemort, as he did in \"Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince,\" reality finally hit him,\" Rowling said, because his dream was \"so very different\". She said that there was a real moral cowardice to Draco, but that he was not wholly bad.\n\nAnalysts note the criticism of racism in J. K. Rowling's texts.\n\nWhen asked about the theme of racism and if her books have changed how people think, Rowling said, \"I do not think I am pessimistic but I think I am realistic about how much you can change deeply entrenched prejudice, so my feeling would be that if someone were a committed racist, possibly \"Harry Potter\" is not going to have an effect.\"\n\nWhen asked in a post-\"Deathly Hallows\" webchat about Hermione's future, Rowling said, \"Hermione began her post-Hogwarts career at the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures where she was instrumental in greatly improving life for house-elves and their ilk. She then moved to the Department of Magical Law Enforcement where she was a progressive voice who ensured the eradication of oppressive, pro-pureblood laws.\"\n\nAfter the publication of \"Deathly Hallows\", Rowling responded to queries about metaphors in the books for ethnic cleansing: \"Well, it is a political metaphor. But... I didn't sit down and think, <nowiki>'</nowiki>I want to recreate Nazi Germany<nowiki>'</nowiki>, in the—in the wizarding world. Because—although there are—quite consciously overtones of Nazi Germany, there are also associations with other political situations. So I can't really single one out.\" Rowling also compared her character Voldemort to paranoid megalomaniacs like Adolf Hitler and Joseph Stalin.\n\nIn her 2007 book tour Rowling further discussed the topic, stating \"It wasn't really exclusively that. I think you can see in the Ministry even before it's taken over, there are parallels to regimes we all know and love.\" She prefaced the remark, saying \"People like to think themselves superior and that if they can pride themselves in nothing else they can pride themselves on perceived purity.\"\n\nRowling stated on her website that the \"Harry Potter\" phrases 'pure-blood', 'half-blood' and 'Muggle-born' compared to \"some of the real charts the Nazis used to show what constituted 'Aryan' or 'Jewish' blood. I saw one in the Holocaust Museum in Washington when I had already devised the 'pure-blood', 'half-blood' and 'Muggle-born' definitions, and was chilled to notice the similarity.\"\n\nChristopher Hitchens noted in \"The New York Times\" that the lightning bolt—the shape of the scar which Harry received as a result of Voldemort's curse, now considered to be emblematic of the series—is also the symbol of Sir Oswald Mosley's British Union of Fascists, a prominent group of Nazi sympathisers during the 1930s and 1940s. The Nazis themselves, in their SS, made use of the symbol too. In the same article, Hitchens noted that \"The prejudice against bank-monopoly goblins is modeled more or less on anti-Semitism and the foul treatment of elves is meant to put us in mind of slavery\".\n\nJ. K. Rowling mentions in an article that Mosley was married to Diana Mitford, sister of her heroine, Jessica Mitford. Jessica, after whom Rowling named her daughter, never forgave Diana's Nazi sympathies. Oswald and Diana married in 1936, in the Berlin home of Nazi chief Joseph Goebbels with Adolf Hitler as a guest. J. K. Rowling also noted that Mitford's other sister Unity, to whom Jessica was closest in youth, became an arch-fascist and favourite of Adolf Hitler's.\n\nJessica's story may have thus inspired a part of Harry's story: Narcissa Black (analogue to Diana Mosley) married a Death Eater, Lucius Malfoy (Oswald Mosley). Her sister, Bellatrix (Unity Mitford), was herself a Death Eater, and a favourite of Lord Voldemort (Adolf Hitler). Andromeda (Jessica Mitford) married the Muggle-born Ted Tonks against her family's wishes (as Jessica eloped with her cousin Esmond Romilly) and was blasted out of the family-tree tapestry. These parallels were noted in the American communist newspaper \"People's Weekly World\".\n\nIn an act commemorating the Holocaust, actor Daniel Radcliffe, whose mother is Jewish, donated his first pair of Harry Potter glasses to an art exhibition inspired by a famous World War II photo of a mangled mountain of spectacles of victims of ethnic cleansing. Radcliffe's \"Potter\" co-star Jason Isaacs, who played Lucius Malfoy in the films, himself a Jewish Briton, was due to participate in the commemorations on National Holocaust Memorial Day, leading a service at Liverpool's Philharmonic Hall.\n\nAviva Chomsky (daughter of famed academic Noam Chomsky) in the \"Providence Journal\" suggests that \"Harry Potter\" is a parable on immigration rights, noting that US \"immigration, citizenship and naturalization laws are based explicitly on discrimination on the basis of national origin. Where you were born, and what passport you carry, determine whether you have the right to come here, to visit, to work, or to live here.\"\n\nOn the \"Harry Potter\" series, Rowling said on her United States book tour in October 2007, \"I very consciously wanted to show what is one of the great evils of war, which is that totally innocent people are slaughtered... Another great evil of war is that children lose their families.\"\n\n\"Time\" magazine said in 2005, \"Rowling adapts an inherently conservative genre for her own progressive purposes. Her Hogwarts is secular and sexual and multicultural and multiracial and even sort of multimedia, with all those talking ghosts.\" To mark the French publication of \"Deathly Hallows\", prominent French center-left paper \"Liberation\" devoted the front cover and two more pages to answering the question \"Why Harry Potter is of the Left\".\n\nIn 2007, responding to a question from a child about Dumbledore's love life, Rowling revealed, \"I always saw Dumbledore as gay.\" Filling in a few more details, she said, \"Dumbledore fell in love with Grindelwald... Don't forget, falling in love can blind us. [He] was very drawn to this brilliant person. This was Dumbledore's tragedy.\"\n\nMelissa Anelli, webmaster of the fan site The Leaky Cauldron, told The Associated Press, \"Jo Rowling calling any Harry Potter character gay would make wonderful strides in tolerance toward homosexuality... By dubbing someone so respected, so talented and so kind, as someone who just happens to be also homosexual, she's reinforcing the idea that a person's gayness is not something of which they should be ashamed.\" Of the ensuing controversy, Rowling said, \"I know that it was a positive thing that I said it, for at least one person, because one man 'came out' at Carnegie Hall.\" \"Entertainment Weekly\"s Mark Harris said \"her choice to make a beloved professor-mentor gay in a world where gay teachers are still routinely slandered as malign influences was, I am certain, no accident.\" Harris also says that there is a drastic underrepresentation of gays in the population, and it is a failure of decency and nerve on the entertainment industry— \"including the tremendous number of gay producers, writers, and executives who sacrifice their convictions so they don't look too \"strident\" or \"political.\"\"\n\nAccording to Think Progress, a progressive news site, conservative blogs say Rowling's revelation about Dumbledore vindicates Jerry Falwell's attacks on homosexuality in children's media that were lambasted by the mass media. \"What's stopping her from saying that [Harry's friend] Neville grows up to be a paedophile?\" said David Baggett, an associate philosophy professor at Falwell's Liberty University's School of Religion. Baggett, who coauthored the book \"Harry Potter and Philosophy: If Aristotle Ran Hogwarts\", says he was taken aback not only by Rowling's announcement, but by the fact that it came on the heels of her confirming many Potter fans' belief that the series had Christian themes.\n\n\"Slate Magazine\" quotes an attendee of the book talk who said, \"It was clear that JKR didn't plan to out Dumbledore. She just cares about being true to her readers.\" Mike Thomas of the \"Orlando Sentinel\" said that upon reflection, Dumbledore was gay from the beginning, and that this neatly explains the behaviour of his character and his relationship with Grindelwald. Thomas notes the skill Rowling displays in writing a gay character without having to put a gay label on him.\n\nAccording to Reuters, Rowling was surprised over the fuss and declined to say whether her \"outing\" of Dumbledore might alienate those who disapprove of homosexuality. \"It has certainly never been news to me that a brave and brilliant man could love other men. He is my character. He is what he is and I have the right to say what I say about him,\" she said. Reaction has been mainly supportive on fans' Web sites, such as The Leaky Cauldron and MuggleNet.\n\nActor David Thewlis (Remus Lupin) said that he was surprised about Dumbledore's sexuality, because while he was filming \"Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban\" director Alfonso Cuarón had the idea that \"Lupin was gay, and he described my character like a 'gay junkie'.\"\n\nCatholic fantasy author Regina Doman wrote an essay titled \"In Defense of Dumbledore\", in which she argued that the books actually support Catholic teaching on homosexuality because Dumbledore's relationship with the dark wizard Grindelwald leads to obviously terrible results, as he becomes interested in dark magic himself, neglects his responsibilities towards his younger sister and ultimately causes her death.\n\nThe South Florida \"Sun-Sentinel\"s book reviewer Chauncey Mabe says that it was wrong for Rowling to disclose Dumbledore's sexual orientation. Mabe was clear that this was not due to Dumbledore's being gay, but to his own objections to authors continuing to talk about their books after they are written. He called for Rowling to \"please be quiet, please\" in \"public gatherings\", which is contrary to the massive popularity of Rowling's book talks and her fans' thirst for more information about characters in the Harry Potter books. Mabe notes that 1,000 children attended the \"reading\" before they were given autographed books. Robin Berkowitz, \"Sun-Sentinel\" Entertainment Editor says of Rowling's comments, and other revelations she might make about her characters \"We don't need to know any of them to appreciate the books fully,\" \"Don't ask, don't spell\" a reference to the U.S. military's former policy on homosexuality, Don't ask, don't tell. These sentiments are mirrored by Jeffrey Weiss in his article, \"Harry Potter and the author who wouldn't shut up\", published in the \"Dallas Morning News\".\n\nThe \"Washington Post\"s Michael Gerson says \"tolerance is one of the main themes of the Harry Potter books. In a marvelous social comparison, lycanthropy is treated as a kind of chronic disease, with werewolves subject to discrimination as if they had AIDS.\"\n\nAccording to Philip Nel of Kansas State University, the Potter series can be seen as \"political novels that critique racism and racial superiority. Rowling, who worked for Amnesty International, evokes her social activism through Hermione's passion for oppressed elves and the formation of her \"Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare.\" Dobby the house elf has been compared to the labour lawyer Dobby Walker who introduced Rowling's heroine, Jessica Mitford, to the Communist Party.\nHermione is depicted as starting a campaign to emancipate the enslaved House elves, using the methods of real-world campaigns on social and political issues such as badges with slogans. She persists in this campaigning also when it is considered quixotic even by her close friends and not much appreciated even by most of the House elves themselves. But in \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows\", the campaign turns out to have had enormous unforeseen results, with House elves joining the struggle and making several indispensable contributions to Voldemort's final defeat and saving the main protagonists' lives. Rowling said in an early interview that Hermione and her political conscience about the rights of elves was fairly autobiographical.\n\nGerson of the \"Washington Post\" also described what he considered to be the very subversive nature of the Harry Potter books in the answer they offer to death. Voldemort believes that death must be mastered and \"beaten\". In contrast, Harry accepts the necessity of his own death for the sake of love. Gerson also suggests that some will ask the book series about tolerance also be a book series about religion. He answers that many others \"believe – not in spite of their faith but because of it – that half-bloods, werewolves and others should be treated with kindness and fairness. Above all, believers are called to love, even at the highest cost.\"\n\nIn a 1999 interview with Rowling, \"The Guardian Unlimited\"s Joanna Carey said, \"JK Rowling is every bit as witty and subversive as you'd expect. Rowling described her admiration of Jessica Mitford since age 14, her time at Exeter University \"not quite the chance to be the 'radical' I planned\", and said the later books dealing with Harry's hormones, and deaths would be unlike other children's series like the Famous Five. Carey suggested a parallel between Harry Potter and Prince Harry which Rowling laughs off saying a friend said never let the press make you discuss the royal family.\"\n\nJames Morone, a political science professor at Brown University, wrote in the liberal \"American Prospect\" in 2001, \"Magical headmaster Albus Dumbledore practically awards bonus points for breaking rules. Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry is unruly, even slightly anarchic. Harry's classmate Hermione 'had become a bit more relaxed about breaking the rules,' writes Rowling near the end of \"Philosopher's Stone\", 'and she was much nicer for it.' There's more than a touch of anarchy when all the students sing to their own tune. In her books, the kids are the central agents of their own lives. They make choices. Weigh judgments. Wrestle with freedom.\"\n\nIsabelle Smadja of \"Le Monde\" wrote that Harry Potter is the first fictional hero of the anti-globalist, anti-capitalist, pro-Third World, \"Seattle\" generation. She wrote that \"Examination of the text suggests that they are, in fact, a ferocious critique of consumer society and the world of free enterprise.\"\n\nThe right-wing U.S. John Birch Society has objected to Rowling's books and her public statements. In his article for the John Birch Society's magazine \"The New American\", Constitution Party Communications Director Steve Bonta compared \"Harry Potter\" negatively to \"The Lord of the Rings\", saying, \"The Potter books read in places like diatribes against the modern middle class, especially whenever Harry confronts his ludicrously dysfunctional and downright abusive adopted family, the Dursleys.\"\n\nThe critic Anthony Holden wrote in \"The Observer\" on his experience of judging \"Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban\" for the 1999 Whitbread Awards. His overall view of the series was very negative—\"the Potter saga was essentially patronising, very conservative, highly derivative, dispiritingly nostalgic for a bygone Britain.\" A review in \"The Guardian\" echoed this interpretation and stated that \"despite all of the books' gestures to multiculturalism and gender equality, Harry Potter is a conservative; a paternalistic, One-Nation Tory, perhaps, but a Tory nonetheless.\" Salon.com critic Christine Schoefer has also criticised the books as sexist, claiming that the series presents a patriarchal world filled with stereotypes and adherence to \"the conventional assumption that men do and should run the world\".\n\nWhen an interviewer suggested her books portrayed a conservative world, Rowling replied, \"So I'm told repeatedly. The two groups of people who are constantly thanking me are Wiccans and boarding schools. And really, don't thank me. I'm not with either of them. New ageism leaves me completely cold, and [my daughter] would never go to boarding school. I went to a comprehensive.\"\n\nRowling says she gets frustrated with the \"conservative world thing\". She made Hogwarts a boarding school so that action could happen in the middle of the night and to create a sense of community among the characters. Harry also reflects the modern world, she argues, in that he is mixed race — his father being pure-blood, his mother being Muggle-born.\" She also says her feminist conscience is saved by Hermione, \"who's the brightest character\" and is a \"very strong female character\".\n\nIn an article published in prominent French newspaper \"Le Monde\", literary scholar Ilias Yocaris argued that \"Harry Potter\" \"probably unintentionally ... appears as a summary of the social and educational aims of neoliberal capitalism.\" According to Yocaris' analysis, all life at Hogwarts is dominated by a culture of competition: \"competition among students to be prefect; competition among Hogwarts houses to gain points; competition among sorcery schools to win the Triwizard tournament; and, ultimately, the bloody competition between the forces of Good and Evil.\" The free market plays a prominent and positive role, while the state (the Ministry of Magic) is presented as inefficient and bureaucratic. In this \"pitiless jungle\", education only aims to \"give students an immediately exploitable practical knowledge that can help them in their battle to survive,\" while artistic subjects and social sciences are useless or absent. Yocaris concludes that \"like Orwellian totalitarianism, this capitalism tries to fashion not only the real world, but also the imagination of consumer-citizens,\" producing literature that suggests that no alternative is possible. In an article published in \"Journal of Contemporary Religion\", Michael Ostling also argued that the series depicts a modern capitalist and consumerist society, where the role of gadgetry is played by magic. The article by Yocaris provoked the response by Isabelle Smadja cited previously.\n\n\"\" noted that Rowling admires Roddy Doyle and Jane Austen, saying \"both of whom write about class distinctions,\" and asked if the reason Rowling wrote about class was a conscious decision. Rowling replied, \"kids are acutely aware of money—before they're aware of class. A kid isn't really going to notice how another kid holds his knife and fork. But a kid will be acutely aware that he doesn't have pocket money. Or that he doesn't have as much pocket money. I think back to myself at 11. Kids can be mean, very mean. So it was there in Ron not having the proper length robes, you know? And not being able to buy stuff on the trolley. He's got to have sandwiches his mum made for him, even though he doesn't like the sandwiches. Having enough money to fit in is an important facet of life—and what is more conformist than a school?\"\n\nSome political commentators have seen J. K. Rowling's portrayal of the bureaucratised Ministry of Magic and the oppressive measures taken by the Ministry in the later books (like making attendance at Hogwarts School compulsory and the \"registration of Mudbloods\" with the Ministry) as an allegory criticising the state.\n\nThe \"People's Weekly World\", the newspaper of the Communist Party USA, claims the books draw you \"into the politics of the wizarding world—the 'Educational Decrees' from the toad-like Ministry of Magic representative, the high-level connections of 'war criminals' from the last rise of Voldemort, the against 'mudbloods' and 'half-breeds.'\" They suggest connections \"to the world we live in, to the similarities and differences between the Fudge administration and the Bush administration\".\n\nPhilosopher Jean-Claude Milner claimed \"Harry Potter is a war machine against the Thatcherite-Blairist world and the 'American Way of Life'\" in France's \"Libération\".\n\nUniversity of Tennessee law professor Benjamin Barton discusses libertarian aspects of \"Harry Potter\" in his paper \"Harry Potter and the Half-Crazed Bureaucracy\", published in the \"Michigan Law Review\". Barton says, \"Rowling's scathing portrait of government is surprisingly strident and effective. This is partly because her critique works on so many levels: the functions of government, the structure of government, and the bureaucrats who run the show. All three elements work together to depict a Ministry of Magic run by self-interested bureaucrats bent on increasing and protecting their power, often to the detriment of the public at large. In other words, Rowling creates a public-interest scholar's dream—or nightmare—government.\"\n\nRowling describes the beloved wizard Dumbledore as Machiavellian and says \"I wanted you to question Dumbledore. It is right to question him, because he was treating people like puppets, and he was asking Harry to do a job that most men twice his age wouldn't have been able to do.\"\n\n\"Newsweek\" magazine asked Alfonso Cuarón, director of the third film based on Rowling's \"Prisoner of Azkaban\" if the villainous wizard Voldemort still reminded him of George W. Bush. Cuarón confirmed, \"In combination with Saddam. They both have selfish interests and are very much in love with power. Also, a disregard for the environment. A love for manipulating people. I read books four and five, and Fudge is similar to Tony Blair. He's the ultimate politician. He's in denial about many things. And everything is for the sake of his own persona, his own power. The way the Iraq thing was handled was not unlike the way Fudge handled affairs in book four.\"\n\n\"Slate Magazine\" also says Rowling takes jabs at the Bush and Blair administrations suggesting the Ministry of Magic's security pamphlet recalls the much-scorned Operation TIPS (Terrorism Information and Prevention System). The author also suggests that Azkaban, the wizard penitentiary, is a stand-in for Guantanamo Bay.\n\nRowling has never confirmed these interpretations in \"Harry Potter\"; however, when the then Chancellor Gordon Brown once asked her to endorse the Labour Party while Tony Blair was Prime Minister, Rowling refused. Rowling attacked the Blair government's policy on single parent families. She said that Labour could do \"a good deal more\" and then donated £500,000 to the One Parent Families charity to set an example. Rowling said that Brown's measures for children 'would have made a real difference to my family's life' when she was poor. Blair stepped down shortly before the release of Rowling's seventh book, and Brown was appointed Prime Minister. Rowling subsequently donated £1 million to the Labour Party during the 2010 general election which Labour lost.\n\nTeachers have hailed \"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix\" as a \"blistering satire on years of politically motivated interference in the running of schools\".\n\nRowling describes her character Dolores Umbridge, the Ministry-appointed headmistress of Hogwarts and under-secretary to the minister, Cornelius Fudge, saying \"She has good contacts at the Ministry. She is one of those people, and they do exist in real life, who will always side with the established order. As far as she is concerned authority cannot be wrong so she doesn't question it, and I would go as far as to say that whatever happened and whoever took over at the Ministry, Umbridge would be there, she likes power. So she is going to side with the people who give her the authority.\"\n\nAndrew Slack, founder of the Harry Potter Alliance, says in \"In These Times\", \"Harry Potter supersedes news about genocide, men assess their 'worth' by their paychecks, women's bodies are treated as commodities and our educational system preoccupies itself not with stimulating children's curiosity but rather getting them to efficiently regurgitate information on standardised tests.\"\n\nHungarian Secretary of State for Education Rózsa Hoffmann and her reforms have often been compared to Dolores Umbridge and her actions in the novels.\n\nThe Capitalism Magazine website says that, \"With a long-term war in progress and threats of further terrorist attacks on American soil,\" \"Harry Potter\" isn't mere escapism and \"shows a world in which happiness can be achieved, villains can be defeated, and the means of success can be learned.\"\n\n\"Time\" magazine says that by \"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix\", \"Harry is embroiled in a borderless, semi-civil war with a shadowy, hidden leader whose existence the government ignored until disaster forced the issue and who is supported by a secret network of sleeper agents willing to resort to tactics of shocking cruelty. The kids who grew up on Harry Potter—you could call them Generation Hex—are the kids who grew up with the pervasive threat of terrorism, and it's inevitable that on some level they'll make a connection between the two.\"\n\n\"Slate Magazine\"s Julia Turner compares \"Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince\" to the War on Terror in the context of the fight against Osama bin Laden saying Voldemort takes up terrorism by destroying bridges, murdering innocents, and forcing children to kill their elders. She also notes the parallels in the community's response saying Fred and George Weasley's shop makes a mint selling Shield Cloaks and the new Minister for Magic jails an innocent man, hoping to stave off panic and create the impression that he's taking action.\n\nRowling said \"I've never thought, 'It's time for a post-9/11 Harry Potter book,' no. But what Voldemort does, in many senses, is terrorism, and that was quite clear in my mind before 9/11 happened... but there are parallels, obviously. I think one of the times I felt the parallels was when I was writing about the arrest of Stan Shunpike, you know? I always planned that these kinds of things would happen, but these have very powerful resonances, given that I believe, and many people believe, that there have been instances of persecution of people who did not deserve to be persecuted, even while we're attempting to find the people who have committed utter atrocities. These things just happen, it's human nature. There were some very startling parallels at the time I was writing it.\"\n\nAcademic Steven Fielding argues in \"A State of Play: British Politics on Screen, Stage and Page, from Anthony Trollope to The Thick of It\" that the changing portray of the Ministry of Magic – from incompetent to authoritarian – reflects Rowling's views on the War on Terror.\n\nIn response to restricted access to the \"Harry Potter\" books children began a letter-writing campaign, forming clubs and organising petitions, which ultimately merged into an internet site called Muggles for Harry Potter. The site evolved into kidSPEAK!, a forum for children to tackle censorship in general, and to fight for Harry Potter specifically.\n\nAndrew Slack, an actor/comedian and Harry Potter aficionado, co-founded the Harry Potter Alliance to highlight the crisis in Sudan and social inequities. \"In These Times\" featured Slack in 2007, in an article about Muggle Activists where Slack said, \"The Harry Potter parallel to Darfur is simple: With both the Ministry of Magic and the Daily Prophet (the Wizarding World's mainstream news source) in denial that Voldemort has returned and evil is afoot, Harry and his underground rebel group, 'Dumbledore's Army,' work with the adult group, 'The Order of the Phoenix,' to awake the world. We in the Alliance seek to be Dumbledore's Army for the real world, working with anti-genocide organisations, such as 'Fidelity Out of Sudan' and the 'Genocide Intervention Network,' to wake our governments, corporations and media up to the fact that 'never again' means 'never again.'\"\n\nWhen \"Time\" magazine asked about The Harry Potter Alliance, Rowling said, \"It's incredible, it's humbling, and it's uplifting to see people going out there and doing that in the name of your character. What did my books preach against throughout? Bigotry, violence, struggles for power, no matter what. All of these things are happening in Darfur. So they really couldn't have chosen a better cause.\" Rowling awarded The Harry Potter Alliance a Fan Site Award in December 2007.\n\nIn February 2010, the HPA ran a massive fundraiser to support those in dire need after the tragic event of the Haiti earthquake. Live webcasts were held in which celebrities (especially those a part of the Harry Potter Fandom) performed and encouraged viewers to donate money. Donations came through an auction that did not guarantee you the prize. Some items that were up for bid were: a signed set of the Harry Potter books, a guitar signed by actor Tom Felton, handmade earrings from actress Evanna Lynch, and a one thousand word story about whatever the winner wishes it to be written by Maureen Johnson and John Green. The webcasts were rather successful, garnering over $125,000. The original plan of Helping Haiti Heal was to have three plane fulls of aid (each one dubbed: Harry, Hermione, and Ron) shipped off to Haiti. As of June the same year, five planes were sent to Haiti, Harry, Hermione, Ron, DFTBA (Don't Forget To Be Awesome) and the last being Dumbledore. On 28 June, there was a livestream video celebrating the landing of Dumbledore. Evanna Lynch was present at the stream and even answered questions asked by fans. Ophelia Dahl, the daughter of the late British author Roald Dahl was also present since she worked with Partners in Health, who the Harry Potter Alliance teamed up with for Helping Haiti Heal.\n\nIn March 2010, The Harry Potter Alliance had a campaign for people to send in their books to the Mississippi Delta which went to Rwanda. As of June, when the campaign ended, they donated over 40,000 books. In July 2010, The Harry Potter Alliance won $250,000 in the Chase Community Giving contest. The money will go towards literacy, LGBT rights, and online community building.\n\nWal-Mart Watch uses parodies of Harry Potter to compare WalMart to Lord Voldemort and draws analogies between House elves and forced labour.\n\nStop Big Media gained support from \"Rocking Out Against Voldemedia\", a compilation of ten original songs by ten Harry Potter-themed \"Wizard Rock\" bands. Andrew Slack and The Harry Potter Alliance compare media consolidation in the U.S. to the control of the Ministry of Magic over the \"Daily Prophet\" in the \"Harry Potter\" books, saying \"Once Voldemort took over every form of media in the Wizarding World, Dumbledore's Army and the Order of the Phoenix formed an independent media movement called \"Potterwatch\". Now the HP Alliance and Wizard Rock have come together to fight for a Potterwatch movement in the real world to fight back against Big VoldeMedia from further pushing out local and foreign news, minority representation, and the right to a Free Press.\"\n\nA worldwide campaign to \"save Harry Potter from the clutches of the Coca-Cola Company\" was launched by the nonprofit Center for Science in the Public Interest. The group says that by aggressively marketing sugar- and caffeine-laden drinks to young fans of the Harry Potter series, Coke is helping fuel the childhood obesity epidemic.\n\nIn a parody of \"Harry Potter\", Campaign for America's Future cast Seinfeld alumnus, Jason Alexander as \"Lord Rovemort\", a Karl Rove figure that coordinates Republican \"obstruction\" in Congress.\n\nLibrary of Congress: Rowling, J. K. Criticism and interpretation\nCarrie-Ann Biondi ed., \"Imagining Better: Philosophical Issues in Harry Potter,\" collection of essays on philosophy and politics of \"Harry Potter\" in \"Reason Papers: A Journal of Interdisciplinary Normative Studies\", vol. 34, no. 2 (June 2012).\n"}
{"id": "11023939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11023939", "title": "Public humanities", "text": "Public humanities\n\nPublic humanities is the work of engaging diverse publics in reflecting on heritage, traditions, and history, and the relevance of the humanities to the current conditions of civic and cultural life. Public humanities is often practiced within federal, state, nonprofit and community-based cultural organizations that engage people in conversations, facilitate and present lectures, exhibitions, performances and other programs for the general public on topics such as history, philosophy, popular culture and the arts. \n\nWorkers within the public humanities endeavor to create physical and virtual spaces where the public can engage in conversation, learning and reflection about issues and ideas. Public humanities projects include exhibitions and programming related to historic preservation, oral history, archives, material culture, public art, cultural heritage, and cultural policy. The National Endowment for the Humanities notes that public humanities projects it has supported in the past include \"interpretation at historic sites, television and radio productions, museum exhibitions, podcasts, short videos, digital games, websites, mobile apps, and other digital media.\" Many practitioners of public humanities are invested in ensuring the accessibility and relevance of the humanities to the general public or community groups.\n\nThe American Council of Learned Societies' National Task Force on Scholarship and the Public Humanities suggests that the nature of public humanities work is to teach the public the findings of academic scholarship: it sees \"scholarship and the public humanities not as two distinct spheres but as parts of a single process, the process of taking private insight, testing it, and turning it into public knowledge.\" Others suggest a more balanced understanding of the ways in which history, heritage and culture are shared between the academy and the public, drawing on the notion of shared historical authority.\n\nSubfields of the public humanities include public history, public sociology, public folklore, public anthropology, public philosophy, historic preservation, museum studies, museum education, cultural heritage management, community archaeology, public art, and public science.\n\nSeveral universities have established programs in the public humanities (or have otherwise expressed commitments to public humanities via the creation of centers, degrees, or certificate programs with investments in various forms of \"public\" work), including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31059645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31059645", "title": "Ramón Eduardo Ruiz", "text": "Ramón Eduardo Ruiz\n\nRamón Eduardo Ruiz (September 9, 1921 – July 6, 2010) was an American historian of Mexico and Latin America. He was the author of fifteen books on Mexican and Latin American history and in 1998 he was awarded the US National Humanities Medal.\n\nRuiz was born in San Diego, California as the son of a former member of the Mexican Navy who left that country during the Mexican revolution. He served as a Pacific B-29 pilot in the Army Air Forces during World War II. He earned his bachelor's degree from San Diego State University in 1947, his master's from Claremont Graduate University in 1948, and his doctorate from the University of California, Berkeley in 1954. Ruiz taught at the University of Oregon, Smith College, and the University of California, San Diego.\n\nBorn to a Mexican family living and working in the United States but never became an U.S citizen. He was very proud of his religion which made him take more interest in wanting to know about the Mexican border. He is the author of 15 books giving knowledge about Mexico and Latin America. When he released the Mexican Revolution in 1980 he caused a controversial issues standing at writing in the new republic it was the first statement by an American historian of Mexico that the real revolution was not a triumph of the people at large, but a long violent specifically bourgeois reform which crushed other popular upspring for the sake of better business. He also brought up the issue of the border such as the North American Free trade agreement and lurid accounts of Mexican drugs lords, killings, and political corruption. Ruiz argued the exchange of goods and services of the dynamics of border economics. Ramon was a civic and community activist, he was one of the early protestors of the Vietnam war and supported the late chicano leader, Cesar Chavez, in his efforts improve the lives and welfare of migrant from workers.\n\n"}
{"id": "153149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153149", "title": "Regulation", "text": "Regulation\n\nRegulation is an abstract concept of management of complex systems according to a set of rules and trends. In systems theory, these types of rules exist in various fields of biology and society, but the term has slightly different meanings according to context. For example:\n\nRegulation in the social, political, and economic domains can take many forms: legal restrictions promulgated by a government authority, contractual obligations (for example, contracts between insurers and their insureds), social regulation (e.g. norms), co-regulation, third-party regulation, certification, accreditation or market regulation.\n\nState-mandated regulation is government intervention in the private market in an attempt to implement policy and produce outcomes which might not otherwise occur, ranging from consumer protection to faster growth or technological advancement. The regulations may prescribe or proscribe conduct (\"command-and-control\" regulation), calibrate incentives (\"incentive\" regulation), or change preferences (\"preferences shaping\" regulation). Common examples of regulation include controls on market entries, prices, wages, development approvals, pollution effects, employment for certain people in certain industries, standards of production for certain goods, the military forces and services. The economics of imposing or removing regulations relating to markets is analysed in regulatory economics.\n\nPower to regulate should include the power to enforce regulatory decisions. Monitoring is an important tool used by national regulatory authorities in carrying out the regulated activities.\n\nIn some countries (in particular the Scandinavian countries) industrial relations are to a very high degree regulated by the labour market parties themselves (self-regulation) in contrast to state regulation of minimum wages etc.\n\nRegulations may create costs as well as benefits and may produce unintended reactivity effects, such as defensive practice. Efficient regulations can be defined as those where total benefits exceed total costs.\n\nRegulations can be advocated for a variety of reasons, including:\n\nThe study of formal (legal or official) and informal (extra-legal or unofficial) regulation constitutes one of the central concerns of the sociology of law.\n\nRegulation of businesses existed in the ancient early Egyptian, Indian, Greek, and Roman civilizations. Standardized weights and measures existed to an extent in the ancient world, and gold may have operated to some degree as an international currency. In China, a national currency system existed and paper currency was invented. Sophisticated law existed in Ancient Rome. In the European Early Middle Ages, law and standardization declined with the Roman Empire, but regulation existed in the form of norms, customs, and privileges; this regulation was aided by the unified Christian identity and a sense of honor in regard to contracts.\n\nBeginning in the late 19th and 20th century, much of regulation in the United States was administered and enforced by regulatory agencies which produced their own administrative law and procedures under the authority of statutes. Legislators created these agencies to allow experts in the industry to focus their attention on the issue. At the federal level, one of the earliest institutions was the Interstate Commerce Commission which had its roots in earlier state-based regulatory commissions and agencies. Later agencies include the Federal Trade Commission, Securities and Exchange Commission, Civil Aeronautics Board, and various other institutions. These institutions vary from industry to industry and at the federal and state level. Individual agencies do not necessarily have clear life-cycles or patterns of behavior, and they are influenced heavily by their leadership and staff as well as the organic law creating the agency. In the 1930s, lawmakers believed that unregulated business often led to injustice and inefficiency; in the 1960s and 1970s, concern shifted to regulatory capture, which led to extremely detailed laws creating the United States Environmental Protection Agency and Occupational Safety and Health Administration.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31820880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31820880", "title": "Sheilaism", "text": "Sheilaism\n\nSheilaism is a shorthand term for an individual's system of religious belief which co-opts strands of multiple religions chosen by the individual usually without much theological consideration. The term derives from a woman named Sheila Larson, who is quoted by Robert N. Bellah et al. in their book \"Habits of the Heart\" as following her own \"little voice\" in a faith she calls \"Sheilaism\".\n\nIn chapter 9 of their 1985 book \"Habits of the Heart\", Robert N. Bellah, Richard Madsen, William M. Sullivan, Ann Swidler, and Steven M. Tipton discuss how religion in America has moved from being highly public and unified, as it was in colonial New England, to extremely private and diverse. To demonstrate the shift, they quote a young nurse, to whom they gave the name Sheila Larson:\nBellah et al. suggest that Sheilaism creates the logical possibility \"of over 220 million American religions, one for each of us,\" and they see Sheilaism as \"a perfectly natural expression of current American religious life\". Oddrun M. H. Bråten wrote:\nThe coinage quickly became a touchstone for sociologists of religion who repeatedly reference it. One sociologist summed it up as \"spiritual bricolage\". Sheilaism even has worked its way into more mainstream culture.\n\nThe columnist Don Kahle concluded that Sheila \"has a code of ethics, but it's no longer connected to a sacred text or an observing deity. It's personal – and unpublished. Sheila abides by Sheilaism. Sheilaism is good for Sheila, but it doesn't build community. Nobody but Sheila knows what are the codes of Sheilaism. Often Sheila doesn't know herself until something 'doesn't feel right'.\"\n\nBellah et al. saw Sheilaism as a form of self-absorption that caused a disaffiliation with communities. Their perspective was very much in line with the prevailing view of sociologists since the 1960s who saw such highly individualized religious experience as proof of a larger decline in the importance of religion in the United States as a whole. In later comments, Bellah summed up the problem with Sheilaism: \"she has made the inner trip and hasn't come back out again, so to speak.\"\n\nThe cultural critic Hal Niedzviecki juxtaposes Sheilaism with Judyism, the joke religion created by comedian Judy Tenuta. Whereas Tenuta is poking fun at the idea of an individualist religion, even titling a book \"The Power of Judyism\", Niedzviecki laments the fact that Sheilaists take the idea seriously. \"Sheilaism permeates our individualistic conformity and continues to demand that our institutions dramatically change to accept us as we want to be.\"\n\nRecent scholarship has re-evaluated Sheilaism, noting that even those who claim a particular organized denomination and regularly attend church often have highly individualized perceptions of their faith.\n\n"}
{"id": "46515904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46515904", "title": "Sine Cerere et Baccho friget Venus", "text": "Sine Cerere et Baccho friget Venus\n\nSine Cerere et Baccho friget Venus, Latin for \"Without Ceres and Bacchus, Venus freezes\", or Sine Cerere et Libero friget Venus, is a quotation from the Roman comedian Terence (c. 195/185 – c. 159 BC) that became a proverb in the Early Modern period. Its simplest level of meaning is that love needs food and wine to thrive. It was sometimes shown in art, especially in the period 1550–1630, in Northern Mannerism in Prague and the Low Countries, as well as by Rubens.\n\nIt has been suggested that the concentration of images by the Haarlem Mannerists reflects the patronage of the powerful brewers of Haarlem.\n\nThe phrase derives from Terence's comedy \"Eunuchus\", in which Chremes says to Pythias in the fifth scene of the fourth act (732), \"verbum hercle hoc verum erit \"sine Cerere et Libero friget Venus\"\" (That saying, \"Without Ceres and Liber, Venus freezes\" is absolutely true!\"). Thus the phrase was probably a well-known proverb at the time as well. Chremes makes use of it to declare how Pythias seems even more beautiful than usual to him during the rowdy partying after a large meal. Liber, the son of Ceres and god of human prosperity (and also of wine), was later replaced with Bacchus. The phrase is found in a similar form in Cicero, who quotes it as an example of the stylistic device of metonymy. In later times it was universally attributed to Terence.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, Caesarius of Heisterbach used it in his work, \"Dialogus miraculorum\" to warn against luxury and frivolty and to advocate an ascetic lifestyle. Martin Luther quoted it in this sense as well, in a 1518 sermon against the Seven Deadly Sins. With the arrival of Renaissance humanism, the proverb was included with a broader sense in various compilations, such as the \"Adagia\" of Erasmus. The earliest German use is in a compilation from Klagenfurt dating to 1468: \"An wein und brot Leidet Venus not\" (Without wine and bread, Venus is not in good stead). Further German variants include:\n\nShakespeare's line in \"Twelfth Night\", \"Dost thou think because thou art virtuous, there shall be no more cakes and ale\", may be an inverted reference.\n\nDepictions in art divide into those showing Venus, typically with an accompanying Cupid, either \"freezing\", without food and drink (or much in the way of clothing), or more comfortable when supplied with them, usually by the other gods in person. The latter type is more common, but Bartholomeus Spranger and Rubens are among the artists who used both types. Like the \"Feast of the Gods\", another subject popular among the Northern Mannerists, the subject offers the combination of a relatively obscure classical reference and the opportunity for plentiful nudity. The subject appears in paintings, drawings and prints, and compositions are often copied between these media, and between artists.\n\nInitially the depiction of this motif were closely tied to text and was found mostly in emblem books, with the first appearance in the \"Picta poesis\" of 1552, by Barthélémy Aneau. The \"Mikrokosmos\", an emblem book of 1579 by the Dutch poet Laurentius Haechtanus may be the first depiction of the shivering Venus, as Ceres and Bacchus walk away. The Latin text makes clear that the motif is to be understood as a warning against excessive feasting and drinking because they stimulate sexual desire.\n\n\"Explain, Cytheran Venus, and Cupid too:\"\n\"Why do you warm your own feet, warm your own hands?\"\n\"Perhaps because eloquent Iacchos is not helping you?\"\n\"Isn't dusty Ceres around either?\"\n\"Where sobriety reigns, harmful lust freezes\"\n\"and no war is waged against the curier.\"\n\"Wherever powerful drunkeness and excess reign,\"\n\"the mother of adultery begins her ruthless war.\"\nThe motif was especially favoured in the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries in the Netherlands and in the circle of mannerist artists at the court of Emperor Rudolf II in Prague.\n\nEarly examples of the motif as the subject of an independent painting are Spranger's pair of paintings of about 1590, and Hans von Aachen's \"Bacchus, Ceres und Amor\" (1598), all painted for Rudolf II. The Spranger was turned into a print in Amsterdam in about 1597 by Jan Harmensz Muller. Hendrik Goltzius produced at least 10 versions of the subject, including a monumental work in the unusual technique of pen and limited colour on canvas, here highly effective (illustrated here). This was also (probably) in Rudolf's collection, then in the royal collections of Sweden and England, and is now in the Philadelphia Museum of Art. A different work on the subject in the same technique is in the Hermitage, which includes a self-portrait by Goltzius in the background.\n\nEspecially in Goltzius' version, the undertones of danger and the moral point of the allegory are still clear, although the motif later moved far from a narrow moral message about personal moderation.\n\nSeveral of the print versions carry the proverb text, which it was presumably felt needed stating for a wider public. Reference to the motif is uncertain in some works, or groups of works, but it is at least arguable that any combination of the three gods, with or without Amor, carries a reference to it, as there is no other context that brings this particular group together. Two different sets of prints by Goltzius showed each of the three gods in turn; in one set, engraved by Jan Saenredam, each is surrounded by worshippers. Two late paintings by Joachim Wtewael show half-length portraits of Bacchus and Ceres, and it is presumed that a Venus is missing to complete the set; another small painting by Wtewael shows the three gods, and Amor, together.\n\nRubens employed the motif repeatedly in different ways, including the visibly freezing \"Venus frigida\", a version with Amor who desperately attempts to start a fire, and one with Venus at the \"Moment maßvollen Erwärmens und ruhigen Erwachens\" (Moment of modestly warming and quietly waking) in which she hesitantly accepts a wine cup from Bacchus. Italian artists rarely depicted it, whether because it came from the mainly northern tradition of emblem books or because the subject had less resonance in a warmer climate. Exceptions are a painting by Pietro Liberi and a print by Agostino Carracci after one by Goltzius. After the baroque period the motif no longer appears often.\n\nThe Calvinist Dutch Republic had complex and conflicted attitudes to both sex and alcohol. Several prominent painters had problems with drink, and the issues were discussed by the biographer and artist Karel van Mander, as part of much wider discussions in Dutch culture. A paper of 2012 by R. de Mambro Santos discusses the motif in this context, and proposes that the depiction of the subject was greatly affected by the big brewers of Haarlem. According to Santos, van Mander can be seen to connect excessive drinking with wine, while beer is presented in his writings and art as a safer and more wholesome product.\n\nBoth Bacchus, as by extension the god of all alcoholic drinks, and Ceres, as the goddess covering the raw materials, were symbolic of beer, and a metaphor used by van Mander placed Venus and Cupid as representing the transformative process of actual brewing, by boiling the ingredients; the fire appearing in many images was a further necessity for brewing. According to Santos, at the period when the subject is found in the art of the Haarlem Mannerists, \"the economic life of Haarlem was mainly based on the production of beer\", and brewers dominated the government of the city, having \"assumed the role previously played by the nobility as a leading group in the administration of the town\". Brouwershofje, an almshouse complex in the city, has more information on the Haarlem brewers' guild.\n\nIn particular Jan Mathijsz Ban was a leading brewer, a friend of artists and a significant collector, spending many weeks touring Italy with Goltzius. With another brewer, he was the dedicatee of the central part of van Manders' \"Schilder-boeck\". Van Mander praises the taste and knowledge of the Haarlem brewers at various points, and \"Both Van Mander’s text and Goltzius’ images present Bacchus as a sober, elegant divinity, a gentle and polite god not associated at all with excessive consumption of alcoholic beverages\", contrary to much previous imagery.\n\nLord Byron expanded on the proverb in \"Don Juan\" Canto II, sections 169–170:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22530912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22530912", "title": "Somali studies", "text": "Somali studies\n\nSomali studies is the scholarly term for research concerning Somalis and Greater Somalia. It consists of several disciplines such as anthropology, sociology, linguistics, historiography and archaeology. The field draws from old Somali chronicles, records and oral literature, in addition to written accounts and traditions about Somalis from explorers and geographers in the Horn of Africa and the Middle East. The Somali Studies International Association is the primary organization for Somalist scholars. \"Bildhaan\", \"Somali Studies\", \"Horn of Africa\" and the \"Anglo-Somali Society Journal\" likewise serve as the field's main periodicals. Since 1980, prominent Somalist scholars from around the world have also gathered annually to hold the \"International Congress of Somali Studies\".\n\nThe academic platform that would become Somali studies has its formal origins with religious, linguistic and historical research done by 18th and 19th century Somali scholars, such as Uways al-Barawi and Shaykh Aidarus. However, Somalis since antiquity have exchanged ideas with polities in North Africa, West Asia, South Asia and as far as East Asia. Through early 20th century scholars like Osman Yusuf Kenadid and the polymath Musa Haji Ismail Galal, other disciplines such as anthropology, sociology and archaeology would eventually form part of Somali studies.\n\nKenadid published many works on various subjects related to Somali history and science, including textbooks on the Somali language, astronomy, geography and Somali philosophy. He borrowed significantly from the vast ancient Somali cultural repository, working towards a renaissance of this rich past. Galal later documented the Somali astrological, meteorological and calendrical systems. He devoted two major works to traditional Somali science, \"The terminology and practice of Somali weather lore, astronomy, and astrology\" (1968) and \"Stars, seasons and weather in Somali pastoral traditions\" (1970), both of which are regarded as classics in Somali studies.\n\nOne of the earliest examples of archaeology in Somalia can be traced back to the 19th century when George Revoil a French explorer excavated several ancient sites in northern Somalia where he found large quantities of glass and pottery, including Roman pottery. After independence, Somali government officials in collaboration with Soviet and British archaeologists began excavating various parts of Somalia during the 1970s. In late 1975, Neville Chittick led a British-Somali archaeological expedition in the northern half of Somalia. Financed by the Somali authorities, the reconnaissance mission found numerous examples of historical artefacts and structures, including ancient coins, pottery, drystone buildings, cairns, mosques, walled enclosures, standing stones and platform monuments. Many of the finds were of pre-Islamic origin and associated with ancient settlements described by the 1st century \"Periplus of the Erythraean Sea\", among other documents.\n\nSomali anthropology studies the way of life of the Somali people. Somalist anthropologists have in various books and papers documented traditional Somali social systems such as the ancient Xeer (customary law) and the clan system, and examined their role within Somali society. In the field of Somali Islamic studies, scholars like I.M. Lewis, Said Sheikh Samatar and Lee V. Cassanelli have written on the traditional Muslim structure of Somali society in books such as \"A Pastoral Democracy: A Study of Pastoralism and Politics Among the Northern Somali of the Horn of Africa\" (1961), \"Oral poetry and Somali nationalism: the case of Sayyid Mahammad 'Abdille Hasan\" (1982) and \"The Shaping of Somali Society: Reconstructing the History of a Pastoral People, 1600 to 1900\" (1982). Enrico Cerulli and Mohamed Diriye Abdullahi in their respective works \"Somalia: scritti vari editi ed inediti\" (1957) and \"Culture and Customs of Somalia\" (2001) have also summarized the origins and ethnogenesis of the Somali people.\n\nIn terms of linguistics, Somali studies examines the inter-relationships between the Somali language and other related Afro-Asiatic languages. Somali is by far the best documented language from the Cushitic branch of Afro-Asiatic, with academic studies of it dating from before 1900. Linguists such as Bogumil Witalis Andrzejewski, Giorgio Banti, Annarita Puglielli, Cabdalla Cumar Mansuur, Mohamed Haji Rabi, Mohamed Diriye Abdullahi and Martin Orwin are considered among the foremost scholars on the study of the Somali language and the relation it has to the tongues spoken by related neighboring ethnic groups, such as the Afars, Oromos and Bejas. Mustafa Abdullahi Feiruz also focuses on the standardization of written Somali, and Somali language's links with Arabic.\n\nThe primary organization overseeing the field is the Somali Studies International Association.\n\n\nSince its inaugural gathering in Mogadishu between July 6-13th, 1980, the \"International Congress of Somali Studies\" has been held to discuss developments in the field. The 10th Congress was held in Djibouti City in December 2007. The triennial \"Somali Studies Conference\" also brings together some scholars and specialists in Somali studies.\n\nSince the early 1970s, the \"Academy of Somali Studies\" began to hold professional award-winning poetry competitions after having been inspired by the traditional poetry competitions annually held throughout Somalia. The \"Somali Studies Association\" recognizes Somali scholars whose work concerning Somali studies stands out with the \"Musa Galaal award\", a prize named after the Somali polymath Musa Haji Ismail Galal. In 1994, Charles L. Geshekter, Professor of History at California State University, Chico, created an endowment for this award. Geshekter's mother and Musa Galaal (1914–1980) were friends. A financial prize is also awarded annually.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46626523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46626523", "title": "Student politics of Bangladesh", "text": "Student politics of Bangladesh\n\nThe Student politics of Bangladesh encompasses the activities and culture among Bangladeshi students, mostly from the tertiary level of education, as part of the support they demonstrate for political parties at the national level.\n\nStudent politics in Bangladesh is reactive, confrontational, and violent. Student organizations act as armaments of the political parties they are part of. So every now and then there are affrays and commotions.\n\nThe student wings of ruling parties run campuses and residence halls through crime and violence. They control access to amenities in residence halls, favoring fellow party members and loyal pupils; eat for free from nearby restaurants, and help themselves to products from shops nearby; practice extortion; and take money from freshmen. Further, they put pressure on teachers for payment in exchange for supporting to school administration their hiring and retention.\n"}
{"id": "20612855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20612855", "title": "Tennessee Division of Archaeology", "text": "Tennessee Division of Archaeology\n\nThe Tennessee Division of Archaeology (TDOA) is a division of the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation responsible for managing prehistoric archaeological sites on lands owned by the U.S. state of Tennessee, conducting archaeological excavations and research, informing the public about Tennessee’s prehistoric past, and coordinating with other state agencies regarding archaeological preservation issues.\n\nThe TDOA has two main divisions. The \"Technical Assistance Group\" is responsible for the protection of archaeological sites and artifacts on all lands owned or controlled by the state. This group also provides technical assistance for state agencies (including State Parks), law enforcement, municipalities, development communities, and the general public. Assistance is offered to public and private entities on legal and technical aspects of prehistoric Native American cemetery relocation and related concerns. This group also conducts research and publishes reports on archaeological subjects, some of which are available for free download via the Division of Archaeology website. \"The Site File and Review Group\" maintains accurate records on all known archaeological sites in the state, and coordinates with state agencies to assess impacts of proposed activities on known or suspected sites. This group also provides expertise to the State Historic Preservation Office by reviewing all federally funded projects within Tennessee to determine their impact on archaeological resources. The TDOA presently employs eight archaeologists, a site files coordinator, and an administrative secretary at the Nashville location. An auxiliary storage facility is located at Pinson Mounds State Park near Jackson, Tennessee.\n\nEach January, the TDOA, in conjunction with the Middle Tennessee State University Department of Sociology and Anthropology, co-sponsors the \"Current Research in Tennessee Archaeology\" meeting. The meeting is open to the public and features presentations by both professional and avocational archaeologists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17129718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17129718", "title": "The Eastern Origins of Western Civilisation", "text": "The Eastern Origins of Western Civilisation\n\nThe Eastern Origins of Western Civilisation, written by John M. Hobson in 2004, is a book that argues against the historical theory of the rise of the West after 1492 as a \"virgin birth\", but rather as a product of Western interactions with more technically and socially advanced Eastern civilization.\n\nThe text reinterprets Eurocentric ideas of Europe's contributions to world development. For example, it provides evidence that a complex system of global trade existed long before Mercantilist Europe, that social and economic theories in the Enlightenment came from encounters with new cultures rather than with Greek and Roman heritage, and that modern European hegemony resulted from situational advantages rather than from inherent superior traits.\n\n\nA reviewer for the Culture Mandala wrote Hobson's work \"complements and builds on the insights of Frank, Braudel and others to illustrate in great detail both how substantial China's historical achievement has been and how much the West has distorted history to serve the purpose of its imperial civilizing mission\".\n\nJohn Hall of McGill University, writing in the English Historical Review, claims that Hobson's work is prone to wild exaggerations and \"tends to cite only those parts of an author’s work that agree with his argument, and misses out whole realms of scholarship\". Hobson, Hall continues, \"tends to give us bad sociology,\" and his construct of Eurocentrism is \"often a straw man.\" Generally, Hall remarks that Hobson makes \"odd claims,\" such as asserting that \"Adam Smith depended upon Chinese intellectual discoveries\". Hall claims that Hobson's \"general picture seems to fail\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58743499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58743499", "title": "The Geometry of Narrative", "text": "The Geometry of Narrative\n\n\"The Geometry of Narrative\" is a 1983 science fiction short story by Hilbert Schenck. It was first published in \"Analog Science Fiction\".\n\nA literature student proposes a new way to apply geometrical concepts to the analysis of narrative, with unexpected results.\n\n\"The Geometry of Narrative\" was shortlisted for the 1983 Nebula Award for Best Short Story and the 1984 Hugo Award for Best Short Story.\n\nBrian Stableford described it as \"a modernised Platonic dialogue\".\n"}
{"id": "39230462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39230462", "title": "Thomas A. DuBois", "text": "Thomas A. DuBois\n\nThomas A. DuBois is a Folklorist, scholar of Sámi culture, and a professor at the University of Wisconsin–Madison.\n\nDuBois is married to Wendy Vardaman, a former Poet Laureate of Madison, Wisconsin.\n\nThomas A. DuBois received his Ph.D. in Folklore and Folklife from the University of Pennsylvania in 1990. He taught at the University of Washington from 1990-1999. While there, he founded the Finnish Studies Program in the Department of Scandinavian Studies and helped initiate the department's Baltic Studies program. In 2000, DuBois moved to the University of Wisconsin-Madison. He is a professor in the Scandinavian Studies Department, as well as the Department of Comparative Literature and Folklore Studies. DuBois has also served as the Director of the Religious Studies Program. \nHis research interests include folklore and identity in the Nordic region, particularly in connection with Finnish, Sámi, and Swedish cultures. DuBois also researches the Baltic region and the broader cultural context of Northern Europe, as well as Celtic-Scandinavian cultural relations. DuBois has written, edited, or co-edited several books and has published articles in journals such as \"Journal of American Folklore\", \"Journal of Finnish Studies\", \"Scandinavian Studies\", and \"Oral Tradition\".\n\nIn 2013 and 2014, DuBois served as President of the Society for the Advancement of Scandinavian Study.\n\nHe is the editor of the Folklore of the Nordic-Baltic Region series, published by the Welsh Academic Press. Together with James P. Leary, he served as co-editor of the \"Journal of American Folklore\". from 2010 to 2014.\n\nDuBois has also translated into English Johan Turi's \"An Account of the Sámi\", the first secular book ever written in the Sámi language. The translation was published in 2011.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38666549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38666549", "title": "Thracian tomb Helvetia", "text": "Thracian tomb Helvetia\n\nThe Thracian tomb \"Helvetia\" mound near Shipka, Bulgaria, was built in the middle of the 4th century BC.\n\nThe walls of the tomb's entrance corridor are made of stone. After this corridor an antechamber is followed by a rectangular chamber with a unique covered ceiling. The ceiling is bent by the walls of both rooms, crossed by a horizontal zone. This marks the transition from the double-pitched, to the semi-cylindrical, ceiling of chambers in Thracian architecture. The floor of the tomb is plastered, and the walls of the antechamber and the other rooms were covered with a coating. Through the horizontal and vertical grooves, they were covered by large marble blocks. The chamber had a stone door that locked from the inside. Opposite the entrance, a ritual stone bed was located in the room. The last funeral that occurred in the antechamber is believed to be that of a horse.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21672625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21672625", "title": "Tonadilla", "text": "Tonadilla\n\nTonadilla was a Spanish musical song form of theatrical origin; not danced. The genre was a type of short, satirical musical comedy popular in 18th-century Spain, and later in Cuba and other Spanish colonial countries.\n\nIt originated as a song type, then dialogue for characters was written into the tonadilla, and it expanded into a miniature opera lasting from 10 to 20 minutes. It drew its personages from everyday life and included popular and folk music and dance, and vernacular language. The tonadilla also influenced the development of the zarzuela, the characteristic form of Spanish musical drama or comedy.\n\nThe first tonadilla is ascribed to Luis Misson in 1757. Notable composers of tonadillas in Spain included Blas de Laserna, Pablo Esteve and Jacinto Valledor.\n\nThe tonadilla was particularly popular in Cuba where more than 200 stage tonadillas were sung between 1790 and 1814, the year in which they began to be displaced from Havana programs, finding new life in the Cuban provinces.\n\n"}
{"id": "17001081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17001081", "title": "Tulio Halperín Donghi", "text": "Tulio Halperín Donghi\n\nTulio Halperín Donghi (27 October 1926 – 14 November 2014) was an Argentine historian. He obtained a Ph.D in history and a law degree at the University of Buenos Aires, then taught at the institution's Faculty of Arts. from 1955-1966. Donghi moved to the National University of the Litoral, where he was named dean. Donghi later taught at the University of Oxford, and became a faculty member of the University of California, Berkeley in 1972.\n\nHalperín Donghi was born in Buenos Aires, in 1926. He received both a \"juris doctor\" and a Doctorate in History from the University of Buenos Aires in 1955. Halperín became a renowned Latin American historian.\n\nExiled in 1966 following the \"Night of the Big Batons\", he divided his time between the University of California and the University of Buenos Aires. Halperín was given an award for Scholarly Distinction from the American Historical Association in 1998, and authored numerous books.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2490895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2490895", "title": "Tuscarora language", "text": "Tuscarora language\n\nTuscarora, sometimes called Skarò˙rə̨ˀ, is a Southern Iroquoian language of the Tuscarora people, spoken in southern Ontario, Canada, North Carolina and northwestern New York around Niagara Falls, in the United States. The historic homeland of the Tuscarora was in eastern North Carolina, in and around the Goldsboro, Kinston, and Smithfield areas. Some Tuscaroras still live in this region, having migrated to present day Robeson County, NC. The name \"Tuscarora\" ( ) means \"hemp people,\" after the Indian hemp or milkweed which they use in many aspects of their society. \"Skarureh\" refers to the long shirt worn as part of the men's regalia, hence \"long shirt people\".\n\nTuscarora is a severely endangered language. As of the mid-1970s, only about 52 people spoke the language on the Tuscarora Reservation (Lewiston, New York) and the Six Nations of the Grand River First Nation (near Brantford, Ontario). The Tuscarora School in Lewiston has strived to keep the language alive, teaching children from pre-kindergarten to sixth grade. However, the only native speakers are older adults.\n\nThe Tuscarora language can appear complex to those unfamiliar with it, more in terms of the grammar than the sound system. Many ideas can be expressed in a single word. Most words involve several components that must be considered before speaking (or writing). It is written using mostly symbols from the Roman alphabet, with some variations, additions, and diacritics.\n\nTuscarora has four oral vowels, one nasal vowel, and no diphthongs. The vowels can be either short or long, which makes a total of eight oral vowels, , and two nasal vowels, . Nasal vowels are indicated with an ogonek, long vowels with a following colon, , and (which may actually be ) with .\nThe /ə̃/ is often rather written \"ę.\" Thus in the official writing system of Tuscarora, the vowels are \"a e i u ę.\"\n\nThe Tuscarora language has ten symbols representing consonants, including three stops (, , and ), three fricatives (, , and ), a nasal (), a rhotic (), and two glides ( and ). These last four can be grouped together under the category of resonants. (Mithun Williams, 1976) The range of sounds, though, is more extensive, with palatalization, aspiration, and other variants of the sounds, that usually come when two sounds are set next to each other.\n\nThere may also be the phonemes and , although they probably occur only in loan words. The phonemic consonant cluster is realized as a postalveolar fricative .\n\nTuscarora has three stops: , , and ; in their most basic forms: , , and . could be considered separate, although it is very similar to , and can be counted as a variant phonetic realization of these two sounds. Each sound has specific changes that take place when situated in certain positions. These are among the phonetic (automatic) rules listed below. Since, in certain cases, the sounds and are realized, a more extended list of the stops would be , , , , and . In the written system, however, only \"t, k,\" and\" ′ \"are used. is aspirated when it directly precedes another .\n\nThe language has two or three fricatives: , , and . and are distinguished only in some dialects of Tuscarora. Both are pronounced , but in some situations, is pronounced . is generally . There is an affricate is .\n\nResonants are , , , . A rule (below) specifies pre-aspiration under certain circumstances. The resonants can also become voiceless fricatives (as specified below). A voiceless is described as \"a silent movement of the tongue accompanied by an audible escape of breath through the nose.\" When becomes a voiceless fricative, it often sounds similar to .\n\n\n followed by or sometimes often becomes .\n\nUsed here is a type of linguistic notation. Aloud, the first bullet point would read, \" becomes when preceded by .\"\n\nThe basic construction of a verb consists of\nin that order. All verbs contain at least a pronominal prefix and a verb base.\n\nThese are the very first prefixes in a verb. Prepronominal prefixes can indicate\nIn addition, these can mark such distinctions as dualic, contrastive, partitive, and iterative. According to Marianne Mithun Williams, it is possible to find some semantic similarities from the functions of prepronominal prefixes, but not such that each morpheme is completely explained in this way.\n\nAs it sounds, pronominal prefixes identify pronouns with regards to the verb, including person, number, and gender. Since all verbs must have at least a subject, the pronominal prefixes identify the subject, and if the verb is transitive, these prefixes also identify the object. For example:\n\nTuscarora word: \"rà:weh\"<br>\nTranslation: He is talking.<br>\nBreakdown: masculine + 'talk' + serial<br>\nThe \"rà\" is the masculine pronominal prefix, indicating that a male person is the subject of the sentence.\n\nOn account of various changes in the evolution of the language, not all of the possible combinations of distinctions in person, number, and gender are made, and some pronominal prefixes or combinations thereof can represent several acceptable meanings.\n\nThe verb base is, generally, exactly what it sounds like: it is the barest form of the verb. This is a verb stem that consists solely of one verb root.\n\nVerb stems can be made of more than just a verb root. More complex stems are formed by adding modifiers. Roots might be combined with many different kinds of morphemes to create complicated stems. Possibilities include reflexive, inchoative, reversive, intensifier, and distributive morphemes, instrumental, causative, or dative case markers, and also incorporated noun stems. The base may be further complicated by ambulative or purposive morphemes.\n\nAspect suffixes are temporal indicators, and are used with all indicative verbs. \"Aspect\" is with respect to duration or frequency; \"tense\" is with respect to the point in time at which the verb's action takes place. Three different aspects can be distinguished, and each distinguished aspect can be furthermore inflected for three different tenses. These are, respectively, punctual, serial, or perfective, and past, future, or indefinite.\n\nNouns, like verbs, are composed of several parts. These are, in this order:\n\nNouns can be divided two ways, formally and functionally, and four ways, into formal nouns, other functional nouns, possessive constructions, and attributive suffixes.\n\nThe pronominal prefix is very much like that in verbs. It refers to who or what is being identified. The prefixes vary according to the gender, number, and \"humanness\" of the noun. Genders include:\nThe prefixes are:\n\nMost stems are simple noun roots that are morphologically unanalyzable. These can be referred to as \"simplex stems.\" More complex stems can be derived from verbs this is commonly done as: <br>\n(verb stem) + (nominalizing morpheme).<br>\nThe process can be repeated multiple times, making more complex stems, but it is rarely the case that it is repeated too many times.\n\nMost nouns end in the morpheme \"-eh\". Some end in \"-aʔ\", \"-ęʔ\", or \"-ʔ\".\n\nIn addition to the formal nouns mentioned above, clauses, verbs, and unanalyzable particles can also be classified as nominals. Clausal nominals are such things as sentential subjects and compliments. Verbal nominals usually describe their referents.\n\nUnanalyzable particles arise from three main sources which overlap somewhat.\nOnomatopoeia, from Tuscarora or other languages, is less common than other words from other languages or verbal descriptions that turned to nominals. In many cases a pronominal prefix has dropped off, so that only the minimal stem remains.\n\nOwnership is divided into alienable and inalienable possession, each of which type has its own construction. An example of inalienable possession would be someone's body part—this cannot be disputed. An example of alienable possession would be a piece of paper held by someone.\n\nAttributive suffixes come in many forms:\n\nA diminutive indicates something smaller; an augmentive makes something bigger. A simple example would be a diminutive suffix added to the word \"cat\" to form a word meaning \"small cat.\" A more abstract example would be the diminutive of \"trumpet\" forming \"pipe.\" Both diminutives and augmentives have suffixes that indicate both smallness and plurality. A (certain) diminutive can be added to any functional nominal. Augmentives usually combine with other morphemes, forming more specific stems.\n\nAttributive suffixes can be added to any word that functions as a nominal, even if it is a verb or particle.\n\nThe basic word order in Tuscarora is SVO (subject–verb–object), but this can vary somewhat and still form grammatical sentences, depending on who the agents and patients are. For example:\nIf two nouns of the same relative \"status\" are together in a sentence, the SVO word order is followed. Such is the case, for example, in a Noun-Predicate-Noun sentence in which both nouns are third person zoic (non-human) singular. If one is of a \"superior\" status, it can be indicated by a pronominal prefix, such as \"hra\", and as such SVO, VSO, \"and\" OSV are all grammatically correct. The example given in \"Grammar Tuscarora\" is:\nwí:rę:n wahrákęʔ tsi:r<br>\nwahrákęʔ wí:rę:n tsi:r<br>\ntsi:r wí:rę:n wahrákęʔ <br>\n\nIn all cases, the translation is \"William saw a dog.\" Mithun writes:\n\"[I]t is necessary but not sufficient to consider the syntactic case roles of major constituents. In fact, the order of sentence elements is describable in terms of \"functional deviation from a syntactically defined basic order\".\" (Emphasis added.)\n\nA sentence that is ambiguous on basis of its containing too many ambiguous arguments is:<br>\ntsya:ts wahrá:nę:t kę:tsyęh<br>\nGeorge he-fed-it fish<br>\nThis could be translated either as \"George fed the fish\" or \"George fed it fish.\"\n\nTuscarora appears to be a nominative-accusative language.\nTuscarora has a case system in which syntactic case is indicated in the verb. The main verb of the sentence can indicate, for example, \"aorist+1st-person+objective+human+'transitive-verb'+punctual+dative.\" (In this case, a sentence could be a single word long, as below in Noun Incorporation.) Objective and dative are indicated by morphemes.\n\nTuscarora definitely incorporates nouns into verbs, as is evident from many examples on this page. This is typical of a polysynthetic language. In Tuscarora, one long verb can be an entire sentence, including subject and object. In fact, theoretically any number of arguments could be incorporated into a verb. It is done by raising nominals realized as noun stems. Datives are not incorporated.\n\nExamples are as follows:\nnękheyaʔtsiʔrá:’nihr<br>\nBreakdown:\nn + ę + k + h + ey + aʔ + tsiʔr + aʔn + ihr<br>\ndualic + future + 1st-person + objective + human + reflexive + 'fire' + 'set'<br>\nTranslation: \"I'll set my fire on him.\" or \"I'll sting him.\"<br>\n<br>\nwaʔkhetaʔnaratyáʔthahθ<br>\nBreakdown: waʔ + k + h + e + taʔnar + a + tyáʔt + hahθ <br>\naorist + 1st-person + objective + human + 'bread' + joiner + 'buy' + dative-punctual <br>\nTranslation: \"I bought her some bread.<br>\n<br>\nyoʔnaʔtshárhę <br>\nBreakdown: yo + ʔn-aʔ-tshár + h + ę <br>\nnon-human-objective + 'door' + 'cover' + perfective <br>\nTranslation: \"The door is closed.\"\n\ntswé:ʔn<br>\n<br>\n'hello'\n\nstá:kwi:ʔ<br>\n<br>\n'high'\n\nkè:rih<br>\n<br>\n'I think'\n\nótkwareh<br>\n'blood'\n\notá:ʔnareh<br>\n'bread'\n\nTuscarora is a Northern Iroquoian language. This branch of Iroquois includes Mohawk, Oneida, Onondaga, Seneca, and Cayuga along with Tuscarora and its historic neighbor, Nottoway. \n\nWallace Chafe posits that a larger language, reconstructed as \"Proto-Northern-Iroquois,\" broke off into \"Proto-Tuscarora-Cayuga,\" and then broke off onto its own, having no further contact with Cayuga or any of the others. \n\nHowever, Lounsbury (1961:17) classed Tuscarora, along with Laurentian, Huron-Wyandot, and Cherokee as the \"peripheral\" Iroquoian languages — in distinction to the five \"inner languages\" of the Iroquois proper. Blair Rudes, who did extensive scholarship on Tuscarora and wrote a Tuscarora Dictionary, concurred with Lounsbury, adding Nottoway and Susquehannock (which Lounsbury ignored in his comparisons) to the list of \"peripheral\" Iroquoian languages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "326930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=326930", "title": "Usage (language)", "text": "Usage (language)\n\nThe usage of a language is the manner in which the written and spoken language is used, the \"points of grammar, syntax, style, and the choice of words\", and \"the way in which a word or phrase is normally and correctly used\". The usage of a language can mean the way people actually use the language, or prescriptively the way one group feels that people ought to use it.\n\n\"The Chicago Manual of Style\" says \"the great mass of linguistic issues that writers and editors wrestle with don't really concern grammar at all—they concern usage: the collective habits of a language's native speakers\", and \"the standards of good usage change, however slowly.\"\n\nDictionaries are not always accurate guides to \"good usage\". \"Despite occasional usage notes, lexicographers generally disclaim any intent to guide writers and editors on the thorny points of English usage.\"\n\nAccording to Jeremy Butterfield, \"The first person we know of who made \"usage\" refer to language was Daniel Defoe, at the end of the seventeenth century\". Defoe proposed the creation of a language society of 36 individuals who would set prescriptive language rules for the approximately six million English speakers.\n\n"}
{"id": "22101371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22101371", "title": "Virtual Collection of Masterpieces", "text": "Virtual Collection of Masterpieces\n\nThe Virtual Collection of Asian Masterpieces (VCM) shares 2,200 Masterpieces of Asian culture online. Since its launch in 2007 more than 120 museums in Asia and Europe have joined the VCM. \nThe VCM is originally a project of the ASEMUS - the Asia-Europe Museums Network. The VCM is now led by a consortium of five Asian and European museums:\n\n"}
