{"id": "16595794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16595794", "title": "100 Greatest African Americans", "text": "100 Greatest African Americans\n\n100 Greatest African Americans is a biographical dictionary of one hundred historically great Black Americans (in alphabetical order; that is, they are not ranked), as assessed by Temple University professor Molefi Kete Asante in 2002.\n\nAsante used five factors in establishing the list:\n\n\nIt was positively reviewed in Reference and User Services Quarterly in 2003, while noting the subjectivity in judging greatness, particularly for contemporary individuals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12030451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12030451", "title": "Amos Hind", "text": "Amos Hind\n\nAmos Hind (1 February 1849 – 27 April 1931) was an English cricketer. who played first-class cricket for Derbyshire between 1876 and 1877.\n\nHind was born at Calverton, Nottinghamshire, the son of John Hind, a framework knitter and his wife Hannah.\n\nHind debuted for Derbyshire in the 1876 season, against Lancashire, batting in two very steady innings, in the first of which he scored half of Derbyshire's run total. He made his highest score of 77 in his third match for the club, an innings victory over Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC). Hind continued to play steadily in the upper-middle order for most of the rest of the 1876 season. At the start of the 1877 season, Hind hit a rough patch in his batting form, and was at times replaced in the batting order by Charles Regan. However he achieved his best bowling performance with 4-9 against MCC and managed an innings of 43 against Hampshire in his penultimate first-class fixture.\n\nHind was a right-handed batsman and played 30 innings in 16 first-class matches with a top score of 77 and an average of 13.06. He was also a right-arm round-arm medium pace bowler who took 24 wickets at an average of 17.45 and a best performance of 4-9.\n\nIn 1880, Hind took eight wickets in total for Halifax in a match against Gentlemen of Canada, a team which included former Nottinghamshire player Walter Wright. He was a framework knitter and in 1881 was unmarried and living with his parents at Calverton.\n\nHind died in Calverton at the age of 82.\n\nHind's younger brother, Samuel Hind, played first-class cricket between 1877 and 1878 for Nottinghamshire.\n"}
{"id": "2437377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2437377", "title": "Architectural technologist", "text": "Architectural technologist\n\nThe Architectural Technologist, also known as a Building Technologist, provides technical building design services and solutions and is trained in architectural technology, building technical design and construction. Architectural Technologists apply the science of architecture and typically concentrate on the technology of building, design technology and construction. They can or may negotiate the construction project, and manage the process from conception through to completion, typically focusing on the technical aspects of a building project. The training of an architectural technologist concentrates on the ever-increasingly complex technical aspects in a building project, but matters of aesthetics, space, light and circulation are also involved within the technical design, leading the professional to assume decisions which are also non-technical.\nMost architectural technologists are employed in architectural and engineering firms, or with municipal authorities; but many provide independent professional services directly to clients, although restricted by law in some countries. Others work in product development or sales with manufacturers.\n\nIn Britain, Ireland, Sweden, Denmark, Hong-Kong (Chartered Architectural Technologist), Canada (Architectural Technologist or Applied Science Technologist), Argentina (M.M.O Maestro Mayor de Obras / Chartered Architecture & Building Science Technologist) and other nations, they have many abilities which are extremely useful in a technological sense to work alongside architects, engineers and other professionals - the training of a technologist provides skills in building and architectural technology. It is an important role in the current building climate. Architectural technologists may be directors or shareholders of an architectural firm (where permitted by the jurisdiction and legal structure). To become an architectural technologist, a four-year degree (or equivalent) in Architectural Technology is required, which can be followed by a Master's Degree, with structured professional and occupational experience.\n\nMost provinces in Canada have an association representing architectural technologists and technicians. On behalf of the public, the provincial governments have granted the provincial architect's associations with the privilege to regulate the profession.\n\nIn the province of Ontario, there were protracted efforts by the Association of Architectural Technologists of Ontario (AATO) to persuade the provincial government and the Ontario Association of Architects (OAA) that the public may be served by having technicians and technologists also design small buildings. In 2003, OAA's efforts to work with AATO failed and, instead, OAA established a relationship with the Ontario Associated of Certified Engineering Technicians and Technologists (OACETT). This joint effort resulted in the creation of a new association called the Ontario Association for Applied Architectural Sciences (OAAAS). Through OAAAS, a qualified technologist can be licensed by the OAA as a Licensed Technologist OAA, with authority to design small buildings. In 2011, OACETT withdrew and OAA embraced OAAAS as its Technology Program. \nIn the Republic of Ireland, the Royal Institute of the Architects of Ireland RIAI declares being the leading professional body for Architectural Technologists in Ireland. The RIAI recognises the professional Architectural Technologist as a technical designer, skilled in the application and integration of construction technologies in the building design process. RIAI Architectural Technologists are recognised as professional partners to Architects in the delivery of exemplary buildings in the Republic of Ireland and worldwide. However, the Royal Institute of the Architects of Ireland has always prevented its technician members to provide a full architectural service. Many qualified architectural technologists believe that a conflict of interest exists, that the RIAI represents architects and cannot adequately defend the interests of architectural technologists: \"The RIAI acts as the Registration Body and Competent Authority for \"Architects\" in Ireland and only provides support services for Irish AT'\".\n\nAnother representative body is the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT). The technical membership of the RIAI (RIAI tech) is equivalent to the technician membership of CIAT (TCIAT). Chartered members of CIAT (MCIAT) are qualified and recognised to lead a project from inception through to completion. The RIAI and the CIAT were represented within the Building Regulations Advisory Body (BRAB) which advised the Minister for the Environment on matters relating to the Building Regulations. BRAB is no longer active. CIAT is now challenging the Building Control Regulations 2014, which are depriving its members from providing full architectural services in the Republic of Ireland. The Irish Government appears to have no valid reason to prevent CIAT members from practising in the Republic of Ireland. The restrictions imposed on members of the CIAT are viewed as anti-competitive and in breach of European Law for free movement of services. The CIAT is awaiting for an opinion from the European Commission on this issue.\n\nIn South Africa the profession is by the South African Institute of Architectural Technologists SAIAT. Senior architectural technologists (10 years or more in practice) enjoy the same statute than architects. The South African Institute of Architects (SAIA) explains that: \"Architecture can be practiced in one of four categories of registered person, namely professional architect, professional senior architectural technologist, professional technologist or professional draughtsperson. The possibility of progression from one category to the next has been provided for in the Regulations.\"\n\nIn the United Kingdom, chartered architectural technologists enjoy the same status as architects. They deliver similar services with a different orientation. The Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists CIAT regulates the profession. CIAT defines chartered architectural technologists as follow: Chartered Architectural Technologists provide architectural design services and solutions. They are specialists in the science of architecture, building design and construction and form the link between concept and construction. They negotiate the construction project and manage the process from conception through to completion. Chartered Architectural Technologists, MCIAT, may practise on their own account or with fellow Chartered Architectural Technologists, architects, engineers, surveyors and other professionals within the construction industry. As professionals adhering to a Code of Conduct, they are required to obtain and maintain mandatory Professional Indemnity Insurance (PII) if providing services directly to clients. They specify products with reference to the \"RIBA Product Selector\", \"Architects Standard Catalogue\", \"Barbour Index\" and trade literature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58440973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58440973", "title": "Ashlee + Evan", "text": "Ashlee + Evan\n\nAshlee + Evan (stylized in all caps) are an American musical duo consisting of married musicians Ashlee Simpson and Evan Ross. They released their debut single, \"I Do\", on September 7, 2018, two days before the premiere of their reality television series of the same name.\n"}
{"id": "32449649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32449649", "title": "Bolivians", "text": "Bolivians\n\nBolivians () are the people that inhabit Bolivia. Amerindians lived in what is now called Bolivia for several millennia before the Spanish Conquest in the 16th century. Spaniards mixed with enslaved Africans in steady numbers, mixing widely with each other and with indigenous peoples.\n\nThe Bolivian population, estimated at 10.9 million is multiethnic, including Amerindians, Mestizos, Europeans, Asians and Africans. The main language spoken is Spanish, although the Guarani, Aymara and Quechua languages are also common and all three, as well as 34 other indigenous languages, are official. The many cultures in Bolivia have contributed greatly to a wide diversity in fields such as art, cuisine, literature, and music.\n\nThe ethnic composition of Bolivia includes a great diversity of cultures. Most of the indigenous peoples have assimilated a mestizo culture, diversifying and expanding their indigenous heritage. Consequently, there is in Bolivia a mix of cultures, which joins together Hispanic and Amerindian cultures.\n\nThe ethnic distribution of Bolivia is estimated to be 30% Quechua-speaking and 25% Aymara-speaking. The largest of the approximately three dozen native groups are the Quechuas (2.5 million), Aymaras (2 million), then Chiquitano (180,000), and Guaraní (125,000). So the full Amerindian population is at 55%; the remaining 30% are mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white), and around 15% are white.\n\nIndigenous, also called \"originarios\" (\"native\" or \"original\") and, less frequently, \"Amerindians\". This ethnic group is composed by the descendents of the Pre-Hispanic cultures. They can be Andean, as the Aymaras and Quechuas (which formed the ancient Inca Empire), which concentrate in the western departments of La Paz, Potosí, Oruro, Cochabamba and Chuquisaca. There also is an important oriental ethnic population, composed by the Chiquitano, Guaraní and Moxos, among others, and that inhabit the departments of Santa Cruz, Beni, Tarija and Pando. The indigenous people compose 60% of the Bolivian population.\n\nMestizo are an ethnic mix of indigenous people and Europeans or Europeans descendants. They are distributed throughout the entire country and compose the 26% of the Bolivian population. Most people assume their \"mestizo\" identity while at the same time identifying themselves with one or more Indigenous cultures.\n\nWhite Bolivians composed 12.72% or 231,088 of the total population in the 1900 census, the last official census that collected data of racial origin. Most people of European origin are second-generation descendants of criollos and Europeans or Arabs, coming mostly from Spain, Croatia, Germany, Italy, Lebanon and Turkey. They are usually concentrated in the largest cities — La Paz, Santa Cruz de la Sierra and Cochabamba — and in some minor cities like Tarija. In the Santa Cruz Department there is an important colony (70.000 inhabitants) of German-speaking Mennonites.\n\nAfro Bolivians are descendants of African slaves, who arrived in the times of the Spanish Empire. They inhabit the department of La Paz and in the provinces of Nor Yungas and Sud Yungas.\n\n\nThe Indigenous peoples of Bolivia are divided into two ethnic groups: the Andeans, who are in the Andean Altiplano and the valley region, and the ethnic culture of the oriental Llanos region, who inhabit the warm regions of eastern Bolivia (Gran Chaco).\n\n\nThe Roman Catholic church has a dominant religious presence in Bolivia. While a vast majority of Bolivians are Catholic Christians, a much smaller portion of the population participates actively. In the decades following the Second Vatican Council (1962–65), the Church tried to make religion a more active force in social life.\n\nA 2008 survey for Americas Barometer, with 3,003 respondents and an error (+/- 1,8%) returned these results:\nOther reviews of the population vary from these specific results.\n\nSome cultural development of what is now Bolivia is divided into three distinct periods: pre-Columbian, colonial, and republican. Important archaeological ruins, gold and silver ornaments, stone monuments, ceramics, and weavings remain from several important pre-Columbian cultures. Major ruins include Tiwanaku, Samaipata, Inkallaqta and Iskanwaya. The country abounds in other sites that are difficult to reach and hardly explored by archaeologists.\n\nThe Spanish brought their own tradition of religious art which, in the hands of local indigenous and \"mestizo\" builders and artisans, developed into a rich and distinctive style of architecture, literature, and sculpture known as \"Mestizo Baroque.\" The colonial period produced the paintings of Perez de Holguin, Flores, Bitti, and others, and also the works of skilled but unknown stonecutters, woodcarvers, goldsmiths, and silversmiths. An important body of native baroque religious music of the colonial period was recovered in recent years and has been performed internationally to wide acclaim since 1994. Bolivian artists of stature in the 20th century include, among others, Guzman de Rojas, Arturo Borda, María Luisa Pacheco, Master William Vega, Alfredo Da Silva, and Marina Núñez del Prado.\n\nMany dances and songs contain elements from both the native and European cultures. \"Caporales\" seems to be the most popular Bolivian dance of present times — in a few decades it has developed into an enormously popular dance, not only in the Highlands where it originated, but also in the Lowlands and in Bolivian communities outside the country. In the Highlands, other traditional and still very popular dances are:\n\nIn the Lowlands, there are:\n\nIt is fashionable among Bolivian Andean women of indigenous descent to wear a skirt called a \"pollera\". It was originally a Spanish peasant skirt that the colonial authorities forced indigenous women to wear. Now it is a symbol of pride in being indigenous and is considered a status symbol.\n\nAnother fashion is the bowler hat, which was adopted from the British. The position of the hat can indicate a woman's marital status and aspirations.\n\nBolivian cuisine stems mainly from the combination of Spanish cuisine with traditional indigenous Bolivian ingredients, with later influences from Argentines, Germans, Italians, Basques, Croats, Russians, and Poles, due to the arrival of immigrants from those countries.\n\nThe traditional staples of Bolivian cuisine are corn, potatoes, and beans. These ingredients have been combined with a number of staples brought by the Spanish, such as rice, wheat, and meat, such as beef, pork, and chicken\n\n"}
{"id": "41833880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41833880", "title": "Christopher Townsend", "text": "Christopher Townsend\n\nChristopher Townsend is a visual effects supervisor. He has worked in the visual effects industry for over 20 years. For over a decade, he was an artist and supervisor at Industrial Light and Magic, and in 2007 became a freelance visual effects supervisor. He worked on \"Journey to the Center of the Earth\", the first ever stereoscopic motion picture shot and released digitally, \"The Wolverine\", \"Ninja Assassin\", \"\" and \"\". He was nominated for a BAFTA and an Academy Award for Best Visual Effects for his work on \"Iron Man 3\", oversaw nearly 3000 shots on \"\" and was the overall supervisor for \"Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2\". In 2015 he was given an Honorary Doctor of Arts degree by his alma mater, Coventry University.\n"}
{"id": "42603084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42603084", "title": "Conditional jockey", "text": "Conditional jockey\n\nA conditional jockey is an apprentice National Hunt racing jockey in Great Britain or Ireland under the age of 26 who has not won more than seventy-five races under rules or had not won that many races within the last six months.\n\nA conditional jockey is entitled to a reduction, known as an allowance, in the weight carried by his horse, dependent on the type of race, which varies according to the number of races the jockey has won. A jockey who has ridden fewer than twenty winners can claim an allowance of seven pounds, one who has ridden between twenty and forty winners can claim a five pound allowance and one who has ridden less than seventy-five winners can claim a three pound allowance. A conditional jockey with fewer than five winners is allowed a further three pounds when riding for the stable which employs him. Allowances cannot be claimed when riding in races restricted to conditional jockeys and in some other instances, for example the Grand National.\n\nThe British conditional jockeys championship runs throughout the National Hunt season and the title is won by the conditional jockey riding the most winners. The 2017-18 competition runs from 30 April 2017 to 28 April 2018. The 2016-17 championship was won by Harry Cobden, who rode 60 winners during the season, 24 ahead of David Noonan.\n"}
{"id": "8778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8778", "title": "Daniel Ortega", "text": "Daniel Ortega\n\nJosé Daniel Ortega Saavedra (; born November 11, 1945) is a Nicaraguan politician serving as President of Nicaragua since 2007; previously he was leader of Nicaragua from 1979 to 1990, first as Coordinator of the Junta of National Reconstruction (1979–1985) and then as President (1985–1990). A leader in the Sandinista National Liberation Front (\"Frente Sandinista de Liberación Nacional\", \"FSLN\"), his policies in government have seen the implementation of leftist reforms across Nicaragua.\n\nBorn into a working-class family, from an early age Ortega opposed ruling President Anastasio Somoza Debayle, widely recognized as a dictator, and became involved in the underground movement against his regime. Joining the Sandinistas as a student in 1963, Ortega's urban resistance activities led to his arrest in 1967. After his release in 1974, he also travelled to Cuba to receive training in guerilla warfare from Fidel Castro's Marxist–Leninist government. He played a crucial role in forming the Insurrectionist faction, which united the FSLN and sparked the mass uprisings of 1978-1979. After the Nicaraguan Revolution resulted in the overthrow and exile of Somoza's government, Ortega became leader of the ruling multipartisan Junta of National Reconstruction. In 1984, Ortega, the FSLN candidate, won Nicaragua's free presidential election with over 60 percent of the vote. A Marxist–Leninist, his first period in office was characterized by a controversial program of nationalization, land reform, wealth redistribution and literacy programs.\n\nOrtega's relationship with the United States was never very cordial, due to U.S. support for Somoza prior to the revolution. Although the U.S. supplied post-revolution Nicaragua with tens of millions of dollars in economic aid, relations broke down when the Sandinistas supplied weapons to leftist Salvadoran rebels (something which Ortega later admitted occurred). His government was opposed by the Contras in a vicious civil war; the Contras were funded by the Reagan administration of the United States. A joint peace proposal by the Democratic Speaker of the House Jim Wright and Ronald Reagan helped precipitate a peace agreement at a meeting of five Central American chiefs of state in July 1987, which won Costa Rican President Óscar Arias the Nobel Peace Prize. This led to free elections in which Ortega was defeated by Violeta Chamorro in the 1990 presidential election, but he remained an important figure in Nicaraguan opposition politics, gradually moderating in his political position from Marxism–Leninism to democratic socialism. Also, he restored relations with the Catholic Church, with adoption of anti-abortion policies.\n\nOrtega was an unsuccessful candidate for president in 1996 and 2001, before winning the 2006 presidential election. In office, he made alliances with fellow Latin American socialists, such as Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, and under his leadership, Nicaragua joined the Bolivarian Alliance for the Americas.\n\nAs of April 19, 2018, Amnesty International and the IACHR of the Organization of American States stated that Ortega has engaged in a violent oppression campaign against protesters, while government officials and government-owned media have denied such actions.\n\nOrtega was born in La Libertad, department of Chontales, Nicaragua. His parents, Daniel Ortega Cerda and Lidia Saavedra, were opposed to the regime of Anastasio Somoza Debayle. His mother was imprisoned by Somoza's National Guard for being in possession of \"love letters\" which the police stated were coded political missives. Ortega and his two brothers, Humberto Ortega, former general, military leader, and published writer, and Camilo Ortega, grew to become revolutionaries. He also had a sister named Germania who is also deceased.\n\nThe search for stable employment took the family from La Libertad to the provincial capital of Juigalpa, and then on to a working-class neighborhood in Managua. Daniel Ortega Cedra detested U.S. military intervention in Nicaragua and Washington's support for the Somoza dictatorship, and he imparted the anti-American sentiment to his sons.\n\nOrtega was arrested for political activities at the age of 15, and quickly joined the then-underground Sandinista National Liberation Front (FSLN). In 1964, Ortega travelled to Guatemala, where the police arrested him and turned him over to the Nicaraguan National Guard. After his release from detainment, Ortega arranged the assassination of his torturer, Guardsman Gonzalo Lacayo, in August 1967. He was imprisoned in 1967 for taking part in robbing a branch of the Bank of America while brandishing a machine gun, telling collaborators that they should be killed if they did not partake in the robbery. Ortega was released in late 1974 along with other Sandinista prisoners in exchange for Somocista hostages. While he was imprisoned at the El Modelo jail, just outside Managua, he wrote poems, one of which he titled \"I Never Saw Managua When Miniskirts Were in Fashion\". During his imprisonment, Ortega was severely tortured. While at El Modelo, his mother helped stage protests and hunger strikes for political prisoners, which improved the treatment of incarcerated Sandinistas. After his release, Ortega was exiled to Cuba, where he received several months of guerrilla training. He later returned to Nicaragua secretly.\n\nIn the late 1970s, divisions over the FSLN's campaign against Somoza led Daniel and Humberto Ortega to form the Insurrectionist, or Tercerista (Third Way) faction. The Terceristas sought to combine the distinct guerrilla war strategies of the two other factions, Tomas Borge's Guerra Prolongada Popular (GPP or Prolonged People's War), and Jaime Wheelock's Proletarians. The Ortega brothers forged alliances with a wide array of anti-Somoza forces, including Catholic and Protestant activists and other non-Marxist civil society groups. The Terceristas became the most effective faction in wielding political and military strength, and their push for FSLN solidarity received the support of reputable revolutionary leaders like Fidel Castro.\n\nOrtega married Rosario Murillo in 1979 in a secret ceremony. and moved to Costa Rica with her three children from a previous marriage. Ortega remarried Murillo in 2005 to have the marriage recognized by the Roman Catholic Church. The couple has eight children, three of them together. She is currently the government's spokeswoman and a government minister, among other positions. Ortega adopted stepdaughter Zoilamérica Narváez in 1986, through a court case.\n\nWhen Somoza was overthrown by the FSLN in July 1979, Ortega became a member of the five-person Junta of National Reconstruction, which also included Sandinista militant Moisés Hassan, novelist Sergio Ramírez, businessman Alfonso Robelo, and Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, the widow of a murdered journalist. In September 1979, United States President Carter hosted Ortega at the White House, and warned him against arming other Central American leftist guerrilla movements. At the time, Ortega spoke truthfully by denying Sandinista involvement in neighboring countries. When Ortega questioned the Americans about C.I.A. support for anti-Sandinista groups, Carter and Deputy Secretary of State Warren Christopher called the reports false. After the meeting, Carter asked Congress for $75 million in aid to Nicaragua, contingent on the Sandinista government's promise not to aid other guerrillas.\n\nThe FSLN came to dominate the junta, Robelo and Chamorro resigned, and in 1981 Ortega became the coordinator of the Junta. As the only member of the FSLN National Directorate in the Junta, he was the effective leader of the country. The FSLN embarked upon an ambitious programme of social reform upon attaining power. 5 million acres of land were redistributed to about 100,000 families, a literacy drive was launched, and health improvements were carried out which got rid of polio and reduced other diseases. The Sandinista nationalization efforts mostly affected banks and industries owned by the Somoza family. More than half of all farms, businesses, and industries remained in private hands, as the revolutionary government still wanted to preserve a mixed economy and support private sector investment. The Superior Council of Private Enterprise (COSEP) opposed the Sandinistas’ economic reform. The main organization of Nicaraguan big business was composed of prosperous families from the Pacific coast cities, who dominated commerce and banking. Ortega took a very hard line against opposition to his policies: On February 21, 1981, the Sandinista army killed 7 Miskito Indians and wounded 17. Forced displacement has also been documented to have occurred with the native population: 10,000 individuals had been moved by 1982. Thousands of Indians took refuge in Honduras and 14,000 were imprisoned in Nicaragua. Anthropologist Gilles Bataillon termed this \"politics of ethnocide\" in Nicaragua. The Indians formed two rebel groups – the Misura and Misurasata. They were joined in the north by Nicaraguan Democratic Force (FDN) and in the south by former Sandinistas and peasantry who under the leadership of Edén Pastora were resisting forced collectivization.\n\nIn 1980 the Sandinista government launched the massive Nicaraguan Literacy Campaign, and claimed the illiteracy rate fell from 50% to 13% in the span of five months; these figures are disputed, as many \"unteachable\" illiterates were omitted from the statistics, and because many people declared literate turned out to be unable to read or write a simple sentence. The UNESCO rewarded Nicaragua the Nadezhda K. Krupskaya prize in recognition of its efforts. The FSLN also focused on improving the Nicaraguan health system, particularly through vaccination campaigns and the construction of public hospitals, and halved child mortality to 40 deaths per thousand. By 1982, the World Health Organization deemed Nicaragua a model for primary health care.\n\nIn 1981, United States President Ronald Reagan accused the FSLN of joining with Soviet-backed Cuba in supporting Marxist revolutionary movements in other Latin American countries such as El Salvador. People within the Reagan administration authorized the Central Intelligence Agency to begin financing, arming and training rebels, some of whom were former officers from Somoza's National Guard, as anti-Sandinista guerrillas. These were known collectively as the Contras. This also led to one of the largest political scandals in US history, (the Iran–Contra affair), when Oliver North and several members of the Reagan administration defied the Boland Amendment, selling arms to Iran and then using the proceeds to fund the Contras. The Contra war would claim 30,000 lives. The tactics used by the Sandinista government to fight the Contras have been criticized by some historians for their suppression of civil rights. On March 15, 1982, the Junta declared a state of siege, which allowed it to close independent radio stations, suspend the right of association and limit the freedom of trade unions. Nicaragua's Permanent Commission on Human Rights condemned Sandinista human rights violations, accusing them of killing and disappearing thousands in the first few years of the war. However, some historians accuse the Contras of having a far poorer Human Rights Record during the same period, with documented cases of murder, rape and torture used to terrorize the rural population. The Contras engaged in destruction of schools, hospitals, and other infrastructure, in order to disrupt the social reform programs of the Sandinistas.\n\nAt the 1984 general election Ortega won the presidency with 67% of the vote and took office on January 10, 1985. In the early phases of the campaign, Ortega enjoyed many institutional advantages, and used the full power of the press, police, and Supreme Electoral Council against the fractured opposition. In the weeks before the November election, Ortega gave a U.N. speech denouncing talks held in Rio de Janeiro on electoral reform. But by October 22, the Sandinistas signed an accord with opposition parties to reform electoral and campaign laws, making the process more fair and transparent. While campaigning, Ortega promoted the Sandinistas’ achievements, and at a rally claimed that “Democracy is literacy, democracy is land reform, democracy is education and public health.” International observers judged the election to be the first free election held in the country in more than half a century. A report by an Irish governmentary delegation stated: \"The electoral process was carried out with total integrity. The seven parties participating in the elections represented a broad spectrum of political ideologies.\" The general counsel of New York's Human Rights Commission described the election as \"free, fair and hotly contested.\" A study by the US Latin American Studies Association (LASA) concluded that the FSLN (Sandinista Front) \"did little more to take advantage of its incumbency than incumbent parties everywhere (including the U.S.) routinely do.\" However some people described the election as \"rigged\". According to a detailed study, since the 1984 election was for posts subordinate to the Sandinista Directorate, the elections were no more subject to approval by vote than the Central Committee of the Communist Party is in countries of the East Bloc.\n\nThirty-three percent of the Nicaraguan voters cast ballots for one of six opposition parties—three to the right of the Sandinistas, three to the left—which had campaigned with the aid of government funds and free TV and radio time. Two conservative parties captured a combined 23 percent of the vote. They held rallies across the country (a few of which were disrupted by FSLN supporters) and blasted the Sandinistas in harsh terms. Most foreign and independent observers noted this pluralism in debunking the Reagan administration charge—ubiquitous in the US media—that it was a \"Soviet-style sham\" election. Some opposition parties boycotted the election, allegedly under pressure from US embassy officials, and so it was denounced as being unfair by the Reagan administration. Reagan thus maintained that he was justified to continue supporting what he referred to as the Contras' \"democratic resistance\".\n\nIn the 1990 presidential election, Ortega lost his reelection bid to Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, his former colleague in the junta. Chamorro was supported by the US and a 14-party anti-Sandinista alliance known as the National Opposition Union (Unión Nacional Oppositora, UNO), an alliance that ranged from conservatives and liberals to communists. She ran an effective campaign, presenting herself as the peace candidate and promising to end the US-funded Contra War if she won. Ortega campaigned on the slogan, \"Everything Will Be Better,\" and promised that, with the Contra war over, he could focus on the nation's recovery. Contrary to what most observers expected, Chamorro shocked Ortega and won the election. Chamorro's UNO coalition garnered 54 percent of the vote, and won 51 of the 92 seats in the National Assembly. Immediately after the loss, the Sandinistas tried to maintain unity around their revolutionary posture. In Ortega's concession speech the following day he vowed to keep \"ruling from below\" a reference to the power that the FSLN still wielded in various sectors. He also stressed his belief that the Sandinistas had the goal of bringing \"dignity\" to Latin America, and not necessarily to hold on to government posts. In 1991, Ortega claimed elections were “an instrument to reaffirm” the FSLN's “political and ideological positions,” and also “confront capitalism.” However, the electoral loss led to pronounced divisions in the FSLN. Some members adopted more pragmatic positions, and sought to transform the FSLN into a modern social democratic party engaged in national reconciliation and class cooperation. Ortega and other party insiders found common ground with the radicals, who still promoted anti-imperialism and class conflict to achieve social change.\n\nPossible explanations for his loss include that the Nicaraguan people were disenchanted with the Ortega government as well as the fact that already in November 1989, the White House had announced that the economic embargo against Nicaragua would continue unless Violeta Chamorro won. Also, there had been reports of intimidation from the side of the contras, with a Canadian observer mission claiming that 42 people were killed by the contras in \"election violence\" in October 1989. This led many commentators to assume that Nicaraguans voted against the Sandinistas out of fear of a continuation of the contra war and economic deprivation.\n\nFrom July 19–21, 1991, the FSLN held a National Congress to mend the rifts between members and form a new overarching political program. The effort failed to unite the party, and intense debates over the internal governance of the FSLN continued. The pragmatists, led by the former vice president Sergio Ramirez, formed the basis of a \"renovating\" faction, and supported collaboration with other political forces to preserve the rule of law in Nicaragua. Under the leadership of Ortega and Tomas Borge, the radicals regrouped into the \"principled\" faction, and branded themselves the Izquierda Democratica (ID), or Democratic Left (DL). The DL fought the Chamorro government with disruptive labor strikes and demonstrations, and renewed calls for the revolutionary reconstruction of Nicaraguan society. During the May 20–23, 1994, extraordinary congress, Ortega ran against a fellow National Directorate member, Henry Ruiz, for the position of party secretary-general. Ortega was elected with 287 to Ruiz's 147 votes, and the DL secured the most dominant role in the FSLN.\n\nOn September 9, 1994, Ortega gained more power after taking over Sergio Ramirez's seat in the Asamblea Sandinista (Sandinista Assembly). Ramirez had served as chief of the FSLN's parliamentary caucus since 1990, but Ortega came to oppose his actions in the National Assembly, setting the stage for Ramirez's removal. Historic leaders, such as Ernesto Cardenal, a former minister of culture in the Sandinista government, rejected Ortega's consolidation of power: “My resignation from the FSLN has been caused by the kidnapping of the party carried out by Daniel Ortega and the group he heads.” The party formally split on January 8, 1995, when Ramirez and a number of prominent Sandinista officials quit.\n\nOrtega ran for election again, in October 1996 and November 2001, but lost on both occasions to Arnoldo Alemán and Enrique Bolaños, respectively. In these elections, a key issue was the allegation of corruption. In Ortega's last days as president, through a series of legislative acts known as \"The Piñata\", estates that had been seized by the Sandinista government (some valued at millions and even billions of US dollars) became the private property of various FSLN officials, including Ortega himself.\n\nIn the 1996 campaign, Ortega faced the Liberal Alliance (Alianza Liberal), headed by Arnoldo Aleman Lacayo, a former mayor of Managua. The Sandinistas softened their anti-imperialist rhetoric, with Ortega calling the U.S. “our great neighbor,” and vowing to cooperate “within a framework of respect, equality, and justice.” The image change failed, as Aleman's Liberal Alliance came first with 51.03 percent of the vote, while Ortega's FSLN secured 37.75 percent.\n\nOrtega's policies became more moderate during his time in opposition, and he gradually changed much of his former Marxist stance in favor of an agenda of democratic socialism. His Roman Catholic faith has become more public in recent years as well, leading Ortega to embrace a variety of socially conservative policies; in 2006 the FSLN endorsed a strict law banning all abortions in Nicaragua. In the run-up to the 2006 elections, Ortega displayed his ties to the Catholic Church by renewing his marriage vows before Cardinal Miguel Obanda y Bravo.\n\nOrtega was instrumental in creating the controversial strategic pact between the FSLN and the Constitutional Liberal Party (Partido Liberal Constitucionalista, PLC). The controversial alliance of Nicaragua's two major parties is aimed at distributing power between the PLC and FSLN, and preventing other parties from rising. After sealing the agreement in January 2000, the two parties controlled the three key institutions of the state: the Comptroller General of the Republic, the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Electoral Council. \"El Pacto,\" as it is known in Nicaragua, is said to have personally benefited former presidents Ortega and Alemán greatly, while constraining then-president Bolaños. One of the key accords of the pact was to lower the percentage necessary to win a presidential election in the first round from 45% to 35%, a change in electoral law that would become decisive in Ortega's favor in the 2006 elections.\n\nAt the Fourth Ordinary Congress of the FSLN, held March 17–18, 2002, Ortega eliminated the National Directorate (DN). Once the main collective leadership body of the party, with nine members, the DN no longer met routinely, and only three historic members remained. Instead, the body just supported decisions already made by the secretary-general. Ortega sidelined party officials and other members while empowering his own informal circle, known as the ring of iron.\n\nUnder Ortega's direction, the FSLN formed the broad National Convergence (Convergencia Nacional) coalition to defeat the PLC in the 2001 elections. Ortega abandoned the revolutionary tone of the past, and infused his campaign with religious imagery. In speeches, he gave thanks to “God and the Revolution” for the post-1990 democracy, and claimed a Sandinista victory would enable the Nicaraguan people to “pass through the sea and reach the Promised Land.” The U.S. opposed Ortega's candidacy from the beginning. The U.S. ambassador even made an appearance with the PLC's Enrique Bolanos while distributing food aid. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks doomed Ortega's chances, as the threat of a U.S. invasion became an issue. Bolanos convinced many Nicaraguans that the renewed U.S. hostility towards terrorism would endanger their country if the openly anti-U.S. Ortega prevailed. Bolanos ended up with 56.3 percent of the vote, and Ortega won 42.3 percent.\n\nIn 2006, Daniel Ortega was elected president with 38% of the vote. This occurred despite the fact that the breakaway Sandinista Renovation Movement continued to oppose the FSLN, running former Mayor of Managua Herty Lewites as its candidate for president. Ortega personally attacked Lewites’ Jewish background, compared him to Judas, and warned he “could end up hanged.” However, Lewites died several months before the elections.\n\nOrtega emphasized peace and reconciliation in his campaign, and selected a former Contra leader, Jaime Morales Corazo, as his running mate. The FSLN also won 38 seats in the congressional elections, becoming the party with the largest representation in parliament. The split in the Constitutionalist Liberal Party helped allow the FSLN to become the largest party in Congress; however, the Sandinista vote had a minuscule split between the FSLN and MRS, and that the liberal party combined is larger than the Frente Faction. In 2010, several liberal congressmen raised accusations about the FSLN presumably attempting to buy votes to pass constitutional reforms that would allow Ortega to run for office for the 6th time since 1984.\n\nSoon after his inauguration, Ortega paid an official visit to Iran and met Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Ortega told the press that the \"revolutions of Iran and Nicaragua are almost twin revolutions...since both revolutions are about justice, liberty, self-determination, and the struggle against imperialism.\" Since the start of his second presidency, various measures have been introduced to combat hunger and to improve access to healthcare, education, credit, and social security. In addition, other reforms have been carried out, including an enhancement of labour rights, the introduction of low-interest loans and training for female micro-entrepreneurs in rural areas, and the distribution of transport subsidies, scholarships, medicine, land titles, and housing materials throughout the population. Altogether, these policies have helped to reduce high levels of poverty and inequality in Nicaragua. Ortega placed the first lady, Rosario Murillo, in charge of the Citizens’ Power Councils (CPCs), designed to implement his anti-poverty social policies. The CPCs also undermined municipal autonomy, as they effectively functioned as local governments by determining the distribution of public goods and services.\n\nIn June 2008 the Nicaraguan Supreme Court disqualified the MRS and the Conservative Party from participation in municipal elections. In November 2008, the Supreme Electoral Council received national and international criticism following irregularities in municipal elections, but agreed to review results for Managua only, while the opposition demanded a nationwide review. For the first time since 1990, the Council decided not to allow national or international observers to witness the election. Instances of intimidation, violence, and harassment of opposition political party members and NGO representatives have been recorded. Official results show Sandinista candidates winning 94 of the 146 municipal mayoralties, compared to 46 for the main opposition Liberal Constitutional Party (PLC). The opposition claimed that marked ballots were dumped and destroyed, that party members were refused access to some of the vote counts and that tallies from many polling places were altered. As a result of the fraud allegations, the European Union suspended $70m of aid, and the US $64m.\n\nWith the late-2000s recession, Ortega in 2011 characterised capitalism as in its \"death throes\" and portrayed the Bolivarian Alternative for the People of Our America (ALBA) is the most advanced, most Christian and fairest project. He also said God was punishing the United States with the financial crisis for trying to impose its economic principles on poor countries. \"It's incredible that in the most powerful country in the world, which spends billions of dollars on brutal wars ... people do not have enough money to stay in their homes.\"\n\nBefore the National Sandinista Council held in September 2009, Lenin Cerna, the secretary of the party organization, called for diversifying its political strategies. He declared the FSLN's future depended on implementing new plans, “so that the party can advance via new routes and in new ways, always under Ortega’s leadership.” Ortega gained power over the selection of candidates, allowing him to personally choose all candidates for public office.\n\nDuring an interview with David Frost for the Al Jazeera English programme \"Frost Over The World\" in March 2009, Ortega suggested that he would like to change the constitution to allow him to run again for president. In Judicial Decision 504, issued on October 19, 2009, the Supreme Court of Justice of Nicaragua declared portions of Articles 147 and 178 of the Constitution of Nicaragua inapplicable; these provisions concerned the eligibility of candidates for president, vice-president, mayor, and vice-mayor—a decision that had the effect of allowing Ortega to run for reelection in 2011.\n\nFor this decision, the Sandinista magistrates formed the required quorum by excluding the opposition magistrates and replacing them with Sandinista substitutes, violating the Nicaraguan constitution. Opposing parties, the church and human rights groups in Nicaragua denounced the decision. Throughout 2010, court rulings gave Ortega greater power over judicial and civil service appointments.\n\nWhile supporting abortion rights during his presidency during the 1980s, Ortega has since embraced the Catholic Church's position of strong opposition. While non-emergency abortions have long been illegal in Nicaragua, recently even abortions \"in the case where the pregnancy endangers the mother's life\", otherwise known as therapeutic abortions have been made illegal in the days before the 2006 election, with a six-year prison term in such cases, too—a move supported by Ortega.\nOrtega himself denies that the abortion legislation outlaws medical procedures necessary to save the woman's life if they result in the termination of pregnancy. \"The medical Procedural Code, he says, is not affected by the law, and requires doctors to do what is necessary to save a woman's life if it is threatened by conditions related to her pregnancy.\" He claims that the accusations that the abortion laws outlaw medical procedures necessary to save the life of the mother are part of \"a media war\".\n\nOrtega was re-elected president with a vote on November 6 and confirmation on November 16, 2011. During the election, the Supreme Electoral Council (CSE) blocked both domestic and international poll observers from multiple polling stations. According to the Supreme Electoral Council, Ortega defeated Fabio Gadea, with 63 percent of the vote.\nIn January 2014 the National Assembly, dominated by the FSLN, approved constitutional amendments that abolished term limits for the presidency and allowed a president to run for an unlimited number of five-year terms. Although billed as a measure to ensure stability, critics charged that the amendments threatened Nicaraguan democracy. The constitutional reforms also gave Ortega the sole power to appoint military and police commanders.\n\nAs of 2016, Ortega's family owns three of the nine free-to-air television channels in Nicaragua, and controls a fourth (the public Channel 6). Four of the remaining five are controlled by Mexican mogul Ángel González, and are generally considered to be aligned with Ortega's ruling FSLN party. There are no government restrictions on Internet use; the Ortega administration attempted to gain complete control over online media in 2015, but failed due to opposition from civil society, political parties, and private organizations.\n\nIn June 2016, the Nicaraguan supreme court ruled to oust Eduardo Montealegre, the leader of the main opposition party, leaving the main opposition coalition with no means of contesting the November 2016 national elections. In August 2016, Ortega chose his wife, Rosario Murillo, as his vice-presidential running-mate for re-election.\n\nAccording to the \"Washington Post\", figures announced on November 7, 2016 put Daniel Ortega in line for his third consecutive term as President, also being his fourth term overall. The Supreme Electoral Council (CSE) reported Ortega and Murillo won 72.4 percent of the vote, with 68 percent turnout. The opposition coalition had called the election a \"farce\" and had called for the boycott of the election. International observers were not allowed to observe the vote. Nevertheless, according to the BBC, the autocratic Ortega was the most popular candidate by far, possibly due to Nicaragua's stable economic growth and lack of violence compared to its neighbours El Salvador and Honduras in recent years.\n\nIn April 2018, student protests over a nature reserve fire expanded to cover an unpopular social security decree. The protesters were violently set upon by the state sponsored Sandinista Youth. Despite attempts by Ortega's government to hide the incident through censorship off all private-owned news outlets, photos and videos of the violence made their way to social media where they sparked outrage and urged more Nicaraguans to join in on the protests. Tensions escalated quickly, as police began using mustard gas canisters and rubber bullets, and eventually live ammunition on unarmed protesters. Authorities were also seen arming Sandinista Youth members with weapons to serve as paramilitary forces. Dozens of student protesters were subsequently killed. Despite the withdrawal of the unpopular decree, the protests continue, with most protesters demanding Ortega's and his cabinet's resignations. As the protests continue, support for the Ortega-Murillo regime dwindles.\n\nOn May 30, Nicaragua's Mother's Day, a march attended by over 300,000 people took place. It was held to honor the mothers of students killed in the recent protests. The demonstration was peaceful, attended by children, mothers and retirees. Yet Ortega's regime ordered sharpshooters, perched at the National Stadium to shoot indiscriminately at the marchers, resulting in the deaths of 15 civilians, one of them in the hands of his own mother. This event has been dubbed by Nicaraguans as the \"Mother's Day Massacre\".\n\nAs of July 3, 2018, the Death Toll has reached 309 people. With no peaceful solution in sight, Ortega clings to power despite the growing unrest.\n\nOn March 6, 2008, following the 2008 Andean diplomatic crisis, Ortega announced that Nicaragua was breaking diplomatic ties with Colombia \"in solidarity with the Ecuadorian people\". Ortega also stated, \"We are not breaking relations with the Colombian people. We are breaking relations with the terrorist policy practiced by Álvaro Uribe's government\". The relations were restored with the resolution at a Rio Group summit held in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, on March 7, 2008. At the summit Colombia's Álvaro Uribe, Ecuador's Rafael Correa, Venezuela's Hugo Chávez and Ortega publicly shook hands in a show of good-will. The handshakes, broadcast live throughout Latin America, appeared to signal that a week of military buildups and diplomatic repercussions was over. After the handshakes, Ortega said he would re-establish diplomatic ties with Colombia. Uribe then quipped that he would send him the bill for his ambassador's plane fare.\n\nOn May 25, 2008, Ortega, upon learning of the death of FARC guerrilla leader Manuel Marulanda in Colombia, expressed condolences to the family of Marulanda and solidarity with the FARC and called Marulanda an extraordinary fighter who battled against profound inequalities in Colombia. The declarations were protested by the Colombian government and criticized in the major Colombian media outlets.\nOn September 2, 2008, during ceremonies for the 29th anniversary of the founding of the Nicaraguan army, Ortega announced that \"Nicaragua recognizes the independence of South Ossetia and Abkhazia and fully supports the Russian government's position\". Ortega's decision made Nicaragua the second country (after Russia) to recognize the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia from Georgia. A day after Venezuela recognised the two Republics, Nicaragua established diplomatic relations with Abkhazia, and followed this by establishing diplomatic links with South Ossetia. Embassies have been mooted, but as of 2013 these had not opened.\n\nWhen seeking office, Ortega threatened to cut ties with the Republic of China (Taiwan) in order to restore relations with the People's Republic of China (as in the period from 1985 to 1990). But he did not do so. In 2007 Ortega stated that Nicaragua did not accept the One China Policy of the PRC government and that Nicaragua reserved the right to maintain official diplomatic relations with Taiwan. He reassured President Chen Shui Bian in 2007 that Nicaragua would not break diplomatic relations with Taiwan. He explained that during the Reagan administration the United States imposed sanctions on Nicaragua. But cutting ties with Taiwan was a sad and painful decision because of the friendship between Nicaragua and Taiwan's people and government. Ortega met with Taiwan's President Ma Ying-jeou in 2009 and both agreed to improve the diplomatic ties between both countries. However, with a trade show from China in Managua in 2010, he is attempting a two-track policy to get benefits from both sides. In 2016 Nicaragua and Taiwan signed an air services agreement and Ortega stated that Nicaragua's free trade deal with Taiwan had benefited both nations. Taiwan increased its investment in Nicaragua. In 2017 Ortega reaffirmed Nicaragua's diplomatic relations with Taiwan.\n\nIn September 2010, after a US report listed Nicaragua as a \"major\" drug-trafficking centre, with Costa Rica and Honduras, Ortega urged the US Congress and Obama administration to allocate more resources to assist the fight against drug trafficking.\n\nDuring the Libyan Civil War, Ortega was among the very few leaders who spoke out in clear defense of the embattled Muammar Gaddafi. During a telephone conversation between the two, Ortega told Gaddafi that he was \"waging a great battle to defend his nation\" and stated that \"it's at difficult times that loyalty and resolve are put to the test.\"\n\nOrtega has said that Assad's victory in the 2014 election is an important step to \"attain peace in Syria and a clear cut evidence that the Syrian people trust their president as a national leader and support his policies which aim at maintaining Syria's sovereignty and unity\".\n\nIn 2016, Daniel Ortega did not sign the Paris Agreement because he felt the deal did not do enough to protect the climate, although he later changed his mind. Moreover, Nicaragua rejected projects of mining of the Canadian group B2 Gold which could represent a threat to the environment. According to government estimates, Nicaragua has passed from 25 percent renewable energy to 52 percent between 2007 and 2016.\n\nIn Nicaragua, reviews of Ortega's presidency have not always been glowing, with many considering him a dictator. Many Nicaraguans, including prominent former Sandinista leaders, such as Daniel Ortega's own brother Humberto Ortega, have accused him of forgetting where he came from and catering to his own capitalist interests; calling his government monopolistic and authoritarian and denouncing him as a \"Bloody Dictator\". The 2018 protests are symbolic of these tensions with nearly 70% of Nicaraguans thinking Ortega should resign.\n\nIn 1998, Daniel Ortega's adopted stepdaughter Zoilamérica Narváez released a 48-page report describing how, she alleged, Ortega had systematically sexually abused her from 1979, when she was 9, until 1990. Ortega and his wife Murillo denied the allegations. The case could not proceed in Nicaraguan courts, which have been consistently allied with Ortega, because Ortega had immunity from prosecution as a member of parliament, and the five-year statute of limitations for sexual abuse and rape charges was judged to have been exceeded. Narváez took a complaint to the Inter American Human Rights Commission, which was ruled admissible on October 15, 2001. On March 4, 2002 the Nicaraguan government accepted the Commission's recommendation of a friendly settlement.\n\nOrtega continued to deny the allegations and Narváez withdrew the accusations in 2008, though she later renewed her complaints shortly after. Following the 2016 election, Narváez continued to make the accusations saying that she had become an outcast of her family.\n\n"}
{"id": "7909264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7909264", "title": "David Solomon Eibenschutz", "text": "David Solomon Eibenschutz\n\nDavid Solomon Eibeschutz (Hebrew: דוד שלמה אייבשיץ) (alternate English: David Shlomo Eibeschitz) was born in Ozerjany, Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth (now in Ukraine) in 1755.\n\nHis father's name was Yerachmiel. He was a Russian-born rabbi and author, a pupil of Rabbi Moses Tzvi Heller, the author of \"Geon Tzvi.\" He was the first Rabbi of the shtetl of Chorostkov, Polish–Lithuanian_Commonwealth (now Chorostkiv, Ukraine). From 1790 to 1800, he occupied the position of Rabbi in Bodzanov (now Budaniv, Ukraine). Thereafter, he served as the Rabbi for Soroki, Bessarabia (now Soroca, Moldova), and in Jassy (now Iaşi, Romania). From Iasi, he made \"aliyah\" and went to the Land of Israel in 1810 and remained in Safed until his death on 19 November 1813.\n\nHe was the author of many kabalistic and Talmudical works, which still exist in manuscript. He also wrote \"Levushei Serad,\" in two parts. The first part contains a commentary on the \"Shulchan Aruch\", \"Orach Chayim\", with comments on David ben Samuel's \"Turei Zahav\" and Abraham Abele Gumbiner's \"Magen Avrohom\"; at the end of this part is added the plan of the Temple as described by Ezekiel (Mohilev, 1818, and frequently reprinted). The second part is on \"Shulchan Aruch\", \"Yoreh De'ah\" (Mohilev, 1812). His \"Ne'os Deshe\" is a compilation of 138 \"responsa,\" in two parts, the first of which was published in Lemberg, 1861, while the second is in manuscript. \"Arvei Nachal\" is also in two parts, the first being a treatise on the Pentateuch, the second consisting of sermons (Kopust, Sdilkov, 1835; Krotoschin, 1840; Jitomir, 1850; Lemberg, 1856).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45274949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45274949", "title": "Deborah Delanoy", "text": "Deborah Delanoy\n\nDeborah Delanoy is a parapsychologist. She was the President of the Parapsychological Association in 1994, and a co-editor of the \"European Journal of Parapsychology\" from 1990 until 1999. She was also the director of the Centre for the Study of Anomalous Psychological Processes at the University of Northampton, where she studied whether people could unconsciously respond to remote influences, such as another person's thoughts.\n\nIn 2014 she received the Outstanding Career Award from the Parapsychological Association.\n\n\"The Reporting of Methodology in ESP Experiments\", in \"A Brief Manual for Work in Parapsychology\"; book by Bob Brier, Deborah Delanoy, John Palmer, and George Hansen. Published by the Parapsychology Foundation Inc., 2006. .\n\n\"The Training of Extrasensory Perception in the Ganzfeld\", by Deborah Delanoy. Published by the University of Edinburgh, 1986.\n\nDelanoy, D.L. and Solfvin, J.F. (1996). Exploring psychological variables of free-response ESP targets and their relationships to psi-scoring. In E. May (Ed.) Proceedings of the Parapsychological Association 39th Annual Convention, supplement, pp. 1-15. San Diego, CA: Parapsychological Association, Inc. \n\nDelanoy, D.L. (1996). Consistency, significance and relevance of psi research. Forschende Komplementaermedizin, 3, 158-161. \n\nDelanoy, D.L. (1996). Experimental evidence suggestive of anomalous consciousness interactions. In D.N. Ghista (Ed.) Biomedical and Life Physics, Proceedings of the Second Gauss Symposium, 2-8 August, 1993, pp. 397-410. Braunschweig/Wiesbaden: Vieweg. \n\nDalton, K.S., Morris, R.L., Delanoy, D.L., Radin, D.I., Taylor, R. and Wiseman, R. (1996). Security measures in an automated ganzfeld system. Journal of Parapsychology, 60, 129-148. \n\nDelanoy, D.L. (1997). Important psi-conducive practices and issues: Impressions from six parapsychological laboratories. European Journal of Parapsychology, 13, 62-68. \n\nDelanoy, D.L. and Morris, R.L. (1998-99). A DMILS training study utilising two shielded environments. European Journal of Parapsychology, 14, pp. 52-67. \n\nDelanoy, D.L. (1999). The reporting of methodology in ESP experiments. In A Brief Manual For Work In Parapsychology, pp. 35-49, New York: Parapsychology Foundation, Inc. \n\nDelanoy, D.L. Unity and divisions within the Parapsychological Association. In N. Zingrone and D. Bierman (Eds.) Research in Parapsychology 1994. Metuchen, N.J.: Scarecrow Press, Inc. \n\nDelanoy, D.L., Morris, R.L. and Watt, C.A. (in press). A study of free-response ESP performance and mental training techniques. Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research. \n"}
{"id": "54102656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54102656", "title": "Fillemon Elifas Shuumbwa", "text": "Fillemon Elifas Shuumbwa\n\nFillemon Elifas Shuumbwa affectionately known as Fillemon Shuumbwa yElifas lyaShindondola (born October. 10, 1932 - died by gun shot 16 August 1975 at Onamagongwa), Ondangwa area, Namibia) was the chief of Ondonga and chief minister of Ovamboland (1972–75). The Ondonga tribal area is situated around Namutoni on the eastern edge of Etosha pan in today's northern Namibia.\n"}
{"id": "3548539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3548539", "title": "Franck Muller", "text": "Franck Muller\n\nFranck Muller (born July 1958) is a Swiss watchmaker and the company of the same name. The brand of watches carries the slogan \"Master of Complications\". Franck Muller's watches are worn by various celebrities, among them Demi Moore, Elton John, 50 Cent, Lil Uzi Vert, and José Mourinho. Franck Muller timepieces are famous for their fusion of \"modern\" style, mostly inspired by American watches from the thirties, like \"Elgin tonneau\", and traditional Swiss watch manufacturing.\n\nFranck Muller was born in 1958. He spent his childhood in La Chaux-de-Fonds with his Italian mother and Swiss-born father. When 15, he enrolled in a watchmaking school.\nIn the early 1980s, he graduated from the Watchmaking School of Geneva (). Afterwards, he began repairing top-quality pocket watches. Close to an independent watchmaker by the name of Svend Andersen, Franck Muller became responsible for handling watches from the collection of Patek Philippe. \nMost of the clientele were private individuals and museums. While he was working with complicated timepieces, he became passionate about their mechanisms and began to think of building his own workshop.\n\nSoon after, in 1984, Franck Muller designed his own tourbillon wristwatch. In the 1980s, few watchmakers were capable of creating such complicated timepieces, among them Patek Philippe and Vacheron Constantin. The private clients of Franck Muller continued to come for new timepieces, and thus his business started growing. \nThe House of Franck Muller opened in 1991, and his ultra complicated timepieces instantly became famous in Europe and the United States. Today, his factory, which is also the headquarters of Franck Muller, produces a limited number of watches for private clientele. Franck Muller's collections include a variety of designs and price ranges.\nNow the company has five sites (Genthod, Lajoux, Les Bois, Plan-les-Ouates, Meyrin) and 570 official retailers.\n\nThe company's estimated total sales (in 2010/2011) were €290 million in watches with an average unit price of €38,000.\n\nFranck Muller is also known for its \"World Premiers\". Each year, the manufacturer launches at least one new line of timepieces, featuring something special and exclusive, that has never been seen before in the watchmaking industry. The first such world premiere was launched in 1993. The watches had a split seconds chronograph, a minute repeater, and a perpetual calendar. In addition, the watches included an indicator showing the internal temperature.\n\nNotable timepieces include \"Revolution2\", \"Revolution3\", \"Crazy Hours\", and \"Colour Dreams\". Further examples of Franck Muller's watches include the Endurance, which is a simple chronograph, the \"Master Banker\", which is a tonneau-shaped watch capable of multiple time zone indication, and the \"Curvex Minute Repeater Tourbillon\", whose production is limited to 25 pieces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50650049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50650049", "title": "Freddy Ginebra", "text": "Freddy Ginebra\n\nFreddy Danilo Ginebra Giudicelli (b. 17 February 1944 in Santo Domingo) is a cultural agent, writer and Dominican journalist.\n\nGinebra, studied law in the Autonomous University of Santo Domingo and afterwards English philology, communication sciences, cultural administration and public relations at University of New York . \n\nAt age 19, in 1964, he produced the television show \"Cita con la Juventud\".\n\nHe was President of the \"Dominican League of Advertising Agencies\" (LIDAP). In 1974 he founded \"Casa de Teatro\" ( \"House of Theatre\"), a cultural Center in the city of Santo Domingo, and has been its Director ever since. The Center had a prominent role in the historical Festival \"Siete Dias con el Pueblo\" (\" Seven days with the people\"), a cultural protest movement, presenting artists such as Silvio Rodríguez, Mercedes Sosa, Ana Belén, \"The Guaraguaos\", Cuco Valoy, Sonia Silvestre and Johnny Ventura, among others. The Ambassador of France in the Dominican Republic made Ginebra \"Chevalier of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres\".\n\nGinebra is cousin of TV presenter and actress Milagros Germán.\n\nGinebra's debut as an actor is in the movie \"Mañana no te olvides\" (Tomorrow Do not Forget), a film by Spanish-Dominican filmmaker José Enrique Pintor.\n\n"}
{"id": "536050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536050", "title": "George Bailey (It's a Wonderful Life)", "text": "George Bailey (It's a Wonderful Life)\n\nGeorge Bailey is a fictional character and the protagonist in Frank Capra's 1946 film \"It's a Wonderful Life\". The character is a building and loan banker who sacrifices his dreams in order to help his community, to the point where he feels life has passed him by. Eventually, due to a cruel business rival's manipulations, Bailey falls into despair so deep that he contemplates suicide, until his guardian angel, Clarence Odbody, gives him a valuable perspective on the worth of his life.\n\nThe character was listed ninth on the American Film Institute's 2003 list of the 50 greatest screen heroes. Bailey is played by James Stewart as an adult and Bobby Anderson as a child, and is loosely based on George Pratt, a character in Philip Van Doren Stern's \"The Greatest Gift\".\n\nIn the winter of 1919, George (aged 12, portrayed by Bobby Anderson) and his friends Bert, Ernie Bishop, Marty Hatch, Sam Wainwright, and his brother Harry are sledding on a frozen river. Harry breaks through the ice and George jumps into the freezing water to save him. George develops an infection which deafens him in his left ear.\n\nIn May 1920, George returns to his job at Mr. Gower's drug store, where he finds a telegram informing Gower that his son has died in the Spanish flu pandemic. A shaken Gower directs George to deliver medicine to a customer, but George realizes that in his distress Gower has inadvertently put poison into the capsules. He seeks advice from his father, who is president of the Bailey Brothers Building & Loan, but his father is meeting with miserly banker Henry F. Potter. When he returns to the store, Gower angrily upbraids him for not delivering the capsules until George blurts out the mistake. Gower suddenly understands, and is tearfully grateful; George promises he will keep the incident a secret: \"I won't ever tell a soul. Hope to die, I won't.\"\n\nIn June 1928, George (played by James Stewart) is preparing for an overseas trip. He drops by his brother Harry's graduation party at the high school, where he is re-introduced to his friend Marty's eighteen-year-old sister, Mary Hatch. While walking Mary home a car pulls up and George is informed that his father has had a stroke.\n\nThree months later, George is in a meeting with the board of directors of the Building & Loan to appoint a new successor to the late Peter Bailey. Potter argues that the Building & Loan should be dissolved. The directors tell George that the Building & Loan will only stay open if he agrees to remain and carry on his father's work. George foregoes a trip to Europe and his plans for college, giving the funds saved toward tuition to his younger brother.\n\nIn 1932, George and Uncle Billy are waiting at the Bedford Falls railroad station for Harry to come home from college, when Harry arrives with his new wife, Ruth. Her father has offered Harry a job, which means he would not be taking George's place at the Building & Loan. Although Harry vows to turn the offer down for George's sake, George cannot bear to allow his brother to throw away such an opportunity, so he remains in Bedford Falls. While the family is celebrating Harry's return, Ma Bailey mentions to George that Mary Hatch is back from college and he should pay her a visit. He eventually goes to Mary's home to visit her, only to find that she is being courted by his friend, the now wealthy but absent, Sam Wainwright.\n\nA few months later, George and Mary are married. Their plans for a honeymoon in New York City and Bermuda are interrupted by a run on the banks which also affects the Building & Loan. Potter's bank calls their loan, and panicked depositors want their money, threatening to take their business to the bank. As a stockholder, Potter threatens to shut the Building & Loan if they are forced to close early. Mary and George use the money saved for their honeymoon to keep the Building & Loan solvent.\n\nIn 1934, thanks to the Building & Loan, the Martini family move out of 'Potter's Field' to the new 'Bailey Park', a residential development created by George that proves successful enough to seriously threaten Mr. Potter's rental interests. Potter offers George a job. Although this would bring a significant increase in salary George declines. George returns home to learn that Mary is pregnant. Their first child is a son, whom they name Pete after George's late father. Their second child is a daughter, Janie.\n\n\nDuring the war years, George and Mary had another two children, a girl, Zuzu, born in 1940, and a son, Tommy, born in 1941. Due to George's deaf ear, he was given a 4-F draft classification and had to stay in Bedford Falls. His friend Bert the Cop went to Africa to fight, was wounded, and received the Silver Star. Ernie was a member of the airborne, and parachuted into France on D-Day. Marty helped capture the Bridge at Remagen, Sam made a lot of money making plastic hoods for planes, and Harry fought as a naval flyer and shot down fifteen planes, two of which were attacking a troop transport. For his bravery Harry Bailey was awarded the Medal of Honor by the U.S. president, Franklin Delano Roosevelt. While all of this happened, George served as an Air Raid Warden. Despite having to look after four children, Mary still had time to run the United Service Organizations in the town, and Mr. Potter became head of the draft board.\n\n\nOn Christmas Eve morning, Uncle Billy is on his way to the bank to deposit $8,000 of the Building & Loan's cash funds. Holding a newspaper which has Harry on the front page he greets Potter saying, \"Well, good morning, Mr. Potter. What's the news?\" Billy grabs Mr. Potter's newspaper and says, \"Well, well, well, Harry Bailey wins Congressional Medal. That couldn't be one of the Bailey boys? You just can't keep those Baileys down, now, can you, Mr. Potter?\" Potter angrily snatches the paper, but Billy inattentively allows the money to be snatched with it. After returning to his office, Potter opens the paper, notices the money and keeps it, knowing that displacement of bank money would result in bankruptcy for the Building & Loan and criminal charges for George. Billy goes back to the Building & Loan and tells George the news. George is extremely worried, especially with the bank examiner just outside the room. George and Billy go through the town taking every step Billy took in the morning and it goes to a dead end. George later goes home, and Mary knows straight away something is wrong with him. To add to his anger, he finds out his youngest daughter Zuzu has come home with a cold, George blames it on her teacher. When she calls he berates her on the phone, and her husband, as well. He then gets frustrated with his family and ends up smashing up the models of buildings and bridges he had made.\nA desperate George appeals to Potter for a loan. Potter sarcastically turns George down, and then swears out a warrant for his arrest for bank fraud. George, now completely depressed, gets drunk at the bar owned by his friend, Martini, where he silently prays for help. He also gets a full punch to the face from Zuzu's teacher's husband, who is drinking there. Again George runs out, and drives his car into a tree. He comes to a bridge intending to commit suicide, feeling he is \"worth more dead than alive\" because of a life insurance policy. Before he can leap, another man jumps in first and pretends to be drowning. After George rescues him, the man reveals himself to be George's guardian angel, Clarence Odbody.\n\nGeorge does not believe him, and he bitterly wishes he had never been born. Inspired by this comment, Clarence shows George what the town would have been like without him, with the snow outside stopping as the change is made. In this alternative scenario Bedford Falls is instead named Pottersville, and is home to sleazy nightclubs, pawn shops, and amoral people. Bailey Park was never built, and remains an old cemetery. Mr. Gower was sent to prison for poisoning the child and is despised and homeless. Martini does not own the bar. George's friend Violet Bick is a taxi-dancer who gets arrested. Ernie is hopelessly poor, with his family having forsaken him. Uncle Billy has been in an insane asylum for many years since he lost his brother and the family business. Harry is dead as a result of George not being there to save him from drowning, and the servicemen he would have saved also died. (A deleted scene exists in which George finds Martini's grave near Harry's, as Martini and his family died in a fire because they couldn't move out of Potter's slums.) Ma Bailey is a bitter widow, and Mary a shy, single spinster librarian.\nGeorge runs back to the bridge and begs to be allowed to live again. His prayer is answered, shown as the snow restarts, and he runs home joyously, where the authorities are waiting to arrest him. Mary, Uncle Billy, and a flood of townspeople arrive with more than enough donations to save George and the Building & Loan. George's friend Sam Wainwright sends him a $25,000 line of credit by telegram. Harry also arrives to support his brother, and toasts George as \"The richest man in town\". In the pile of donated funds, George finds a copy of \"The Adventures of Tom Sawyer\" inscribed, \"Dear George: Remember no man is a failure who has friends. P.S. Thanks for the wings! Love, Clarence.\" A bell on the Christmas tree rings, and his daughter Zuzu says, \"Teacher says every time a bell rings, an angel gets his wings!\" George agrees and looks up to heaven and says, \"Attaboy, Clarence.\" George realizes that he truly has a wonderful life.\n\nCiting generosity as Bailey's most admirable trait, \"Time\" magazine lists George Bailey among their top ten movie dads.\n\n"}
{"id": "56389454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56389454", "title": "H. Vinton Plummer", "text": "H. Vinton Plummer\n\nHenry Vinton Plummer, Jr. (b. 1876) was an American lawyer, real estate agent, civil rights activist, and black nationalist. In the 1920s he became involved in Marcus Garvey's Universal Negro Improvement Association and African Communities League (UNIA), leading the organizations publicity and propaganda wings, Garvey's secret service, and its militia.\n\nHenry Vinton Plummer, Jr. was born in 1876 in Hyattsville, Maryland to Henry V. Plummer, a Baptist minister and future Army chaplain. Plummer's father was stationed at forts in the Western United States from 1884 to 1894, and Plummer attended schools in or near these forts. He attended high school in Wyoming, where he was valedictorian of his class, in which he was the lone black student, graduating in 1889. He enrolled at the University of Nebraska from 1897–1900 and afterwards was admitted to the bar in Omaha. Plummer's wife, Zora B. Rucker graduated from the Armour Institute in Chicago in about 1905 and worked as a lecturer in home economics, often traveling throughout the country.\n\nLiving in Omaha, Plummer became involved in law, real estate, and local politics. In 1907, Plummer worked with saloon-keeper Ole Jackson to oppose a bill in the state legislature which would restrict tipping as being unfair to service workers. In 1908, Plummer held the position of tax clerk in the county clerk's office and spoke out against removal of black officers in favor of white ones to lead black fire companies.\nIn September 1908, Plummer was an Omaha delegate to the convention of the National Republican League in Cincinnati, Ohio. That fall, he ran as a Republican candidate for the Nebraska Legislature. He was favored in the race but lost. In December 1908, Plummer supported the candidacy of fellow Omahan John Grant Pegg for president of the Interstate Literary Association in Kansas City.\n\nIn February 1910, Plummer was given ten dollars to either pay bail or otherwise help get a woman get out of jail. He did not succeed, and the person who gave Plummer the money would not accept its return, instead suing Plummer. The judge in that case, Police Judge Crawford, argued that Plummer was trying to cheat and swindle. Plummer claimed that there was a conspiracy to injure his reputation. In May, Plummer was given another ten dollars by another client seeking to help in a real estate deal. Plummer again was unsuccessful in securing the deal and the client would not take the money back, and again Plummer was sued. Judge Crawford was again in charge of the proceedings and Plummer was found guilty, barred from law, and fined $25 and jailed for several hours.\n\nLater in 1910 he moved to Washington, D.C., where he established a real estate business. He became involved in progressive politics and he was the assistant sergeant at arms at the 1912 Progressive party national convention. He also continued legal work. In 1914, Plummer was an assistant for attorney John E. Collins in a trial before Judge Daniel Thew Wright. Later, Wright was at that time the subject of congressional investigation, and Plummer spoke before the committee against Wright. \n\nIn late 1915, Plummer was again in trouble with the law, and was sentenced to 30 days for using fake checks. In early 1916, he was indicted along with Thomas F. Karr on embezzlement charges.\n\nHe became involved in Marcus Garvey's Universal Negro Improvement Association and African Communities League (UNIA). Plummer was a founding member of the Newport News, Virginia UNIA and was first vice president of the branch from 1918–1920. He became the head of the Black Star Line bureau of Publicity and Propaganda and the chief of Marcus Garvey's secret service staff. He also was a leader in its African Legion. In 1920, he helped rewrite US Army drill regulations for use by the militia and led drills for the group. He moved to New York City in the early 1920s and in March 1921 was a member of the UNIA delegation that welcomed Liberian president Charles D. B. King. He also was a New York delegate to the 1920, 1922, and 1924 UNIA conventions.\n\nPlummer continued to have legal and personal troubles, and served time in prison in the early 1920s. In March 1923, Plummer and Garvey's secretary, Amy Lamos, had a serious disagreement and Plummer threatened to leave the UNIA, but remained. At the August 1924 UNIA convention, Garvey stood by Plummer against charges that Plummer had been disloyal during his periods in prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "43117270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43117270", "title": "Han Seung-oh", "text": "Han Seung-oh\n\nHan Seung-oh (; born 1978) was a South Korean human rights activist and civil activist. He was one of founding members of Man of Korea (남성연대) also 2nd leader of Man of Korea, July 29, 2013 until August 14.\n\nHan was born in Seoul. In 2008 he was a founding member of Man of Korea, also May 1, 2012, he was appointed to one Leader of General Affairs Team for Sung Jae-gi. On July 8 and July 22 he was Participation of Visit protest for Jecheon Women's Library with Sung Jae-gi. 8 month later, he was appointed to Secretary General of Man of Korea.\n\nIn July 25, 2013, he was nominated as successor to Sung Jae-gi, before his death. in July 26, 2013 Han was one of visitors Sung Jae-gi's suicide, but he was did not discourage. after four days, Seoul city police investigated, with an innocent disposition.\n\nFrom July 26 to August 14, Han was Sung Jae-gi's funeral and case settled. but this did not rectify infighting so there was demand resignation from some member of Man of Korea. On August 21 2013, he resigned.\n\n"}
{"id": "43713223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43713223", "title": "Henri Kastler", "text": "Henri Kastler\n\nHenri Kastler (13 May 1863 – 13 November 1957) was a French philatelist who was added to the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists in 1947. Kastler was the first president of the Academy of Philately.\n"}
{"id": "24035600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24035600", "title": "Henry Percy, Baron Percy of Alnwick", "text": "Henry Percy, Baron Percy of Alnwick\n\nHenry Percy, Baron Percy of Alnwick (died 1659), son of Henry Percy, 9th Earl of Northumberland, sat in the Short Parliament as the member for Portsmouth, and in the Long Parliament an M.P. for Northumberland; an originator of the \"first army plot\" in 1641, after which he retired to France. He was appointed general of the ordnance of the king's army and created baron, 1643; but fell in disgrace in 1644 through his desire for peace. In 1648 he resigned his command and went to France where he joined \nQueen Henrietta Maria's party.\n\nHenry Percy, the younger son of Henry Percy, 9th Earl of Northumberland, was educated at a school at Isleworth, under Mr. Willis, and subscribed at Christ Church, Oxford on 7 December 1624. In 1628 he was elected Member of Parliament for Marlborough and sat until 1629 when King Charles decided to rule without parliament for eleven years. On 21 March 1631 he unsuccessfully applied for the post of secretary to the chancellor of the exchequer. Stratford designed to appoint him captain of a company in the Irish army, but the influence exerted for Lorenzo Gary frustrated the intention. As a courtier Percy was more fortunate; he obtained great influence with Queen Henrietta Maria, and employed it to further the interests of his brother, the Earl of Northumberland, and his brother-in-law, the Earl of Leicester. In March 1633 Percy acted as Lord Weston's friend in the quarrel between him and the Earl of Holland. His favour, however, continued to increase; in November 1639 he was appointed master of the horse to the Prince of Wales, and on 6 June 1640 he was appointed captain and governor of Jersey for life.\n\nIn April 1640, Percy was elected MP for Portsmouth in the Short Parliament. He was elected MP for Northumberland for the Long Parliament in November 1640. Percy was one of the originators of what was termed the \"First Army Plot\" in March 1641, but according to his own story simply designed to procure a declaration from the army in support of the king's policy, and was innocent of the plan to bring it up to London in order to put force on the parliament. When the plot was discovered he endeavoured to flee to France, but was set upon and wounded by the country people in Sussex, and remained for some time in hiding. To facilitate his own escape, he was induced to write a letter to his brother, giving an account of the conspiracy, which furnished the popular leaders with conclusive proof of the reality of the design, and was held by the Royalists to be a treacherous betrayal of his duty to the King. The sole punishment inflicted upon him for his share in the plot was his expulsion from the House of Commons, which took place on 9 December 1641.\n\nPercy went to France, but at the outbreak of the war made himself useful to Queen Henrietta Maria, who employed him as an agent to King Charles, and obtained his restoration to favour. \"Truly\", she wrote, \"I think him very faithful, and that we may trust him\". Thanks to her support, he became on 22 May 1643 general of the ordnance in the king's army, and was created on 28 June of the same year Baron Percy of Alnwick.\n\nPercy fought at the Battle of Cropredy Bridge on 29 June 1644, and accompanied the king into Cornwall in his pursuit of the Earl of Essex; but, having taken part in Henry Wilmot's intrigue to force the king to make peace, he fell into disgrace, and was obliged to resign his command. \"His removal\" says Clarendon, \"added to the ill-humour of the army; for though he was generally unloved as a proud and supercilious person, yet he had always three or four persons of good credit and reputation, who were esteemed by him, with whom he lived very well; and though he did not draw the good fellows to him by drinking, yet he eat well, which in the general scarcity of that time drew many votaries to him, who bore very ill the want of his table, and so Avere not without some inclination to murmur even on his behalf.\" On 11 January 1645 Percy and two other Royalist peers were placed under arrest by the King on the charge of holding correspondence with his enemies and uttering disrespectful speeches, but in reality on account of the persistency with which they urged him to open negotiations with Parliament. Percy was released a few weeks later, and, having procured a pass from Essex, sought to take ship for the continent. On his way he was taken prisoner by William Waller and Oliver Cromwell at Andover. Among Percy's party \"there was a youth of so fair a countenance that Cromwell doubted of his condition, and, to confirm himself, willed him to sing, which he did with such a daintiness that Cromwell scrupled not to say to Lord Percy that being a warrior he did wisely to be accompanied by Amazons, on which that lord in some confusion did acknowledge that she was a damsel; this afterwards gave cause for scoff at the king's party\". Percy arrived at Paris at the end of March 1645, and, though the King had cautioned the Queen not to trust him too much, was speedily as great a favourite with Henrietta as before. In March 1648 he was wounded in a duel with Prince Rupert, and in the following October was put under arrest for giving the lie to Lord Colepeper in the presence of the Prince of Wales.\n\nAs Percy belonged to the queen's party and to the faction of Secretary Robert Long, he is spoken of with great severity in the correspondence of Edward Hyde and Edward Nicholas. They regarded him as an atheist because he favoured Hobbes, and advised Charles II to comply with the demands of the Presbyterians or any other party which would undertake to restore his throne. When he was made Lord Chamberlain and admitted to the Privy Council, their disgust knew no bounds. Hyde, however, was subsequently reconciled to Percy, who brought about a meeting between the queen and the chancellor of the exchequer, and is praised in the \"History of the Rebellion\" for his economical administration of the king's household. When Percy thought of making his peace with the Protector, Hyde dissuaded him, and told him that few men were so fit to be about the king's person, or engaged in the counsels likely to carry him home.\n\nPercy died unmarried at Paris in France in around March 1659.\n\n"}
{"id": "52199525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52199525", "title": "Isa Gendargenoevsky", "text": "Isa Gendargenoevsky\n\nIsa Gendargenoevsky (Chechen: Iийса Гендаргно) (born 1784, Gendergen, Chechnya – died 1845, Urus-Martan, Chechnya) the famous Chechen commander of the 19th century\n\nHe was born in the mountainous Chechen village of Gendergen. When he was 10 years old, members of his family, persecuted by the bloodshed, left Gen- dergen and moved to Urus-Martan.\n\nAccording to Yusup Elmurzayev, in the mid-10's. XIX century. despite his age, Isa was promoted to the leader of one of the detachments of Urus-Martan, and his role in the people's liberation struggle of the mountain people was already quite appreciable.\n\nIn the years 1820–1830, together with Beibulat Taimiev, took part in battles against the colonialists.\nIt is known that on February 27, 1826, Beibulat Taimiev, Ismaili Duda and Isa gave battle for Urus-Martan, which ended with the retreat of the Cossacks. Major battles with their participation took place in Urus-Martan and in 1831, and in August 1832 the village was attacked by 10 thousand army of Baron Rosen.\n\nIn 1834, Mr .. headed the shock forces of the Chechens, covering the main ways of the enemy movement. The talents shown to him brought him not only the glory of the commander, but also raised him to the very top of the hierarchical staircase of the imamate.\n\nIn early 1840, when the imam of Dagestan Shamil was defeated in Dagestan and moved to Chechnya, Isa was the first to volunteer to receive him. However, Shamil, as a guarantee of his security, demanded to send him hostages. The Urus-Martan people sent small children to Shamil. In an embarrassing situation, he presented the children and immediately returned them. March 7 in 1840, Shamil arrived in Urus-Martan. Together with him there were such famous personalities as Tashev-Hadji, Shoip Mulla,\nJavatkhan from Dargo Akhberdil Muhammad, who appealed to Isa Gendergenoyevsky with an appeal to support the insurgents. The next day, on March 8, 1840, a congress of the Chechen people was held in Isa's house, where Shamil was proclaimed the imam of Chechnya and Dagestan.\n\nDuring the period 1840–1842, Isa Hendergenoevsky acted under the leadership of Akhverdi-Magoma and, being his closest associate, took an active part in all the events he undertook. Imed by Isa at the same time, courage, enterprise and ability to get out of any difficult situations, created him a reputation as a gifted commander, put him among the most popular and influential figures of the Imamate.\n\n1842 Isa was appointed naibom of Greater Chechnya, and his residence was determined by the village of Shali. After a while under the same management was transferred to the region of Auch, which previously constituted a self-pity. While in office, Isa, at the head of the troops entrusted to him, led the defense of Eastern and Central Chechnya, helped strengthen Shamil's power in Dagestan. The successes achieved in this process allowed Isa to enter the circle of the Imam's closest circle, to become his confidant. Being a general of the mountain army, he, in the opinion of the well-known Chechen writer and historian Abuzar Aydamirov, along with the naibs Shu'aib Mulla, Talhig Shalinsky, Goytemir, Akhverdi-Magoma, Yusup-Khadzhi and others, was the color of the Shamil general staff.\n\nIn 1843, after the death of Akhberdil Muhammad, Naib of Malaya Chechnya, which surpassed all the other high places in the territory and the number of inhabitants, Isa Hendergenoevsky was replaced in his place.\n\nIn 1845, Mr .. participated in the battle of Dargo. In this battle between the detachment of Isa Gendargenoy and the detachment of General Klugenau, the Russians lost 1,700 people killed and missing, including the Passek generals\nand Viktorov.\n\nIn 1846, Isa continued to play a prominent role in the political life of the imamate and even distinguished himself with the famous campaign of the 10,000-strong Shamil army to Kabarda. But even then his name begins to disappear from official documents, and in subsequent years it is not mentioned in them at all.\n"}
{"id": "20685970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20685970", "title": "James Hamilton, 2nd Earl of Clanbrassil", "text": "James Hamilton, 2nd Earl of Clanbrassil\n\nJames Hamilton, 2nd Earl of Clanbrassil, KG, KP, PC (I) (23 August 1730 – 6 February 1798), was an Anglo-Irish peer, styled Viscount Limerick from 1756 to 1758.\n\nLord Clanbrassil was the son of James Hamilton, 1st Earl of Clanbrassil, and Lady Harriet Bentinck. The Hamilton dynasty were an Ulster-Scots family by origin.\n\nHe sat in the Irish House of Commons as the Member of Parliament for Midleton between 1755 and 1758, and served as High Sheriff of Louth in 1757. On 17 March 1758, he succeeded to his father's titles and became Earl of Clanbrassil. As his title was in the Peerage of Ireland, he was not barred from election to the House of Commons of Great Britain. As such, he served as the MP for Helston from 1768 to 1774. On 4 July 1766 he was made a member of the Privy Council of Ireland and was \"Custos Rotulorum\" of County Louth between 1769 and 1798. On 5 February 1783 he was made a Knight of the Order of the Garter and on 11 March that year he was appointed a Knight Founder of the Order of St Patrick.\n\nHe married The Hon. Grace Foley, daughter of The 1st Baron Foley and The Hon. Grace Granville, on 21 May 1774 at Oxford Chapel, Marylebone. He died without issue in 1798 and his titles became extinct.\n"}
{"id": "6504361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6504361", "title": "John Willard", "text": "John Willard\n\nJohn Willard was one of the people executed for witchcraft in Salem, Massachusetts, during the Salem witch trials of 1692. He was hanged on Gallows Hill, Salem on August 19, 1692.\n\nAt the time of the first allegations of witchcraft Willard was serving as a constable in the village of Salem and his duties included bringing the accused before the court. Soon, however, he began to doubt the truth of the accusations and in May 1692 he refused to make any more arrests. In retaliation Ann Putnam, Jr. and others accused him of witchcraft, and of murdering thirteen citizens.\n\nSome of his in-laws made accusations. Benjamin Wilkins would tell the court that Willard had previously beat his wife. Samuel Wilkins testified that he had repeatedly been irritated and afflicted by something in a dark colored coat—and that it was John Willard. John Wilkins would blame the death of his wife, after having delivered a baby, on John Willard... [p]atriarch, Bray Wilkins, would say that he came down with his illness after John Willard had looked at him with an evil eye. Willard was found guilty of witchcraft on August 5, 1692. On August 19, 1692, he was hanged, along with John Proctor, George Burroughs, George Jacobs, Sr., and Martha Carrier. Willard maintained his innocence until the very end.\n\nMost of the information on John Willard's early life is relatively obscure. However, most scholars conclude that he probably came from Lancaster, MA. Indeed, it was Lancaster where Willard fled to after being accused of witchcraft. During his youth John Willard lived in Lancaster and worked under a Major Simon Willard, one of the most prominent Massachusetts land speculators of the mid-seventeenth century. Some scholars have concluded that John Willard was either the son, or grandson of Major Willard.\n\nThe Wilkins disapproved of John Willard immediately after Margaret Wilkins decided to marry him. This was partly due to Willard's chosen profession and the failure of a business venture by Bray Wilkins decades earlier. In 1658 Bray Wilkins, the future grandfather-in law of John, had teamed up with the father of his daughter-in-law, a tailor named John Gengell, to purchase, on credit, a 700 acre tract of land around Will's Hill. Soon Wilkins and Gengell put up houses and moved their entire families to the remote region. Wilkins and Gengell soon began logging and timber-processing operations. At first the duo prospered, as one of Wilkins' son would boast to a friend that the family operation produced 20,000 barrel staves and 6,000 feet of boards. In terms of profitability, however, the operation was a marginal one. In 1661, Bray Wilkins, in an embarrassing episode, would be arrested and admit to stealing hay in order to feed his oxen with which he transported his timber to Salem Town. Later, his business would suffer an even greater setback during the winter of 1664-1665 when his house burned down. Eventually, Wilkins and Gengell would be unable to keep up with the mortgage payments and would return two-thirds of the land they had been attempting to purchase, however, even with the reduced mortgage they were still unable to pay their debts. In June 1666, Robert Bellingham, the man they had purchased the land from and the Royal governor of Massachusetts, won a foreclosure judgement against Wilkins and Gengell. Bellingham's lawyers would seize the stock of shingles and other goods that belonged to Wilkins and Gengell. After some time, Wilkins would pay off the mortgage and hang on to his land but the experience left him with the view that farming was the only reliable way to have a secure living. Thus, seeing one of his daughters marry a man who had interest in land speculation, made him uneasy. \"\n\nInitially after arriving at Salem Village, John Willard worked as a hired hand on the Putnam farm. One of his many tasks on the farm was looking after the young children living there. Ann Putnam, Sr. had recently given birth to a baby girl and Willard was usually asked to watch the infant. However, the infant, who was named Sarah, would die after a few months. The distraught parents would blame Willard for her untimely death. Despite this, the Putnams did not let the conflict affect their relationship with rest of the Wilkins clan. The Putnams and the Wilkins shared many similarities and experiences. Both families would band together in an attempt to break away from Salem Town and establish their own church in the village, and both families suffered setbacks from mercantile enterprises.\n\nTowards the end of April, after Willard had abandoned his post as a constable and publicly doubted the girls' accusations, Ann Putnam Jr. began to see visions of John Willard's specter. Willard's specter would reveal to her his culpability in several murders. Ann Jr. claimed that she told the apparition of John Willard \"I am very sorry to see you so. You were the one that helped to tend me, and now you have come to afflict me.\" \" \" During her testimony, she would claim that Willard \"sett (sic) upon me most dreadfully\" and had admitted to her that \"he had whiped (sic) my little sister Sarah to death and he would whip me to death if I would not write (sic) in his book.\" Ann Jr. would later see the apparition of her dead sister Sarah who was \"crieing (sic) out for vengance (sic) against John Willard\" along with the specter of \"John Wilkins first wife\" who also declared that Willard had caused her death (John Wilkins, the cousin of Willard's wife Margaret, wife Lydia died in January 1688) \n\nAfter hearing about these disturbing reports, Willard would seek help from his wife's grandfather, Bray Wilkins. Wilkins would later testify that Willard, after Ann Jr. began to accuse him, \"came my house greatly troubled\" and wanted him and other villagers to pray for him. Wilkins would tell his grandson-in-law that unfortunately, he was on his way out for business but if Willard would come home before night then he would pray with him. Willard however was unable to make it before night and Wilkins would not honor the request for prayers. \" \"On Tuesday May 3, 1692, Willard asked his uncle-in-law Henry Wilkins (one of Bray's sons) to accompany him to Boston for election week. Henry's Son, Daniel Wilkins, who was seeing Mercy Lewis at the time, warned his father not to go with Willard saying \"It would be well if Willard were hanged\". Though he was taken back by the comment, Henry Wilkins decided to go with Willard anyway. At the same time Willard and Henry Wilkins were planning on going to Boston, Bray Wilkins had also made plans to travel there and was staying at his brother-in-law's house. Typically, many family members would meet there for dinner and on one of those nights Willard and Henry Wilkins would arrive. Upon Willard's entry to the home Bray would later testify that \"Willard looked upon me in such a sort as I have never before discerned in anybody.\" Bray continued to suffer painful attacks throughout the day \"I cannot express the misery I was in, for my water was suddenly stopped, and i had no benefit of nature, but was like a man on a rack\" he told his wife \"I am afraid that Willard has done me wrong\". Meanwhile in Salem Village, Daniel Wilkins had also fallen ill. Dr William Griggs, who was attending young Daniel \"affirmed that his sickness was by some preternatural cause, and would make no application of any physic\". Mercy Lewis, who was also there, \"affirmed that she saw the apparition of John WIllard afflicting Daniel. Quickly came Ann Putnam Jr, who also saw the same apparition attacking Daniel. Soon after this episode, Bray's son Benjamin Wilkins Sr. took legal action and charged John Willard with afflicting Bray and Daniel Wilkins. An Arrest warrant would soon be issued for John Willard.\n\nOn May 11, 1692 a warrant was issued for the arrest of John Willard. John Putnam Jr, a constable who would search for Willard, reported that \"I went to the house of the usual abode of John Willard and made search for him, and in several other houses and places but could not find him.\" John Willard had fled. Willard had escaped to Lancaster. After Willard's escape, Bray Wilkins, returned to his home in Salem Village. Once Wilkins arrived home, some friends came to see him including the afflicted Mercy Lewis. Lewis told Wilkins that she saw the apparition of John Willard on Wilkins' belly. Upon hearing this, Wilkins stated that he was in \"grievous pain in the small of my belly\". Lewis also stated that she saw Willard's apparition attacking Daniel Wilkins and \"John Willard tells me he will kill him within two days.\" Mercy's prediction came true and two days later on May 16, 1692 Daniel Wilkins died. A second arrest warrant was issued. A short time afterwards constable John Putnam Jr. would capture John Willard attending to his meadows in Lancaster and bring him back to Salem Village. \"\n\nOnce Willard was in custody, he was brought forth to undergo his examination. On May 18, 1692, the magistrates began to castigate him for fleeing by saying \"That you were fled from Authority...is an acknowledgment of guilt...but yet notwithstanding we require you to confess the truth in this matter.\" Willard admitted that he believed \"by my withdrawing it might be better\" but also proclaimed that he was innocent. The magistrates confronted him with testimonies not only from the current afflictions that was happening in the village but also the dreadful murders he had been charged with, reading to him statements from Mercy Lewis, Ann Putnam Jr., and Susannah Sheldon. Other witnesses would also come forward and attack his character. Benjamin Wilkins Sr, testified that Willard \"abused his wife much & broke sticks about her in beating of her.\" Another man stated that Willard was \"very cruel to poor creatures.\" After hearing this, Willard asked that his wife be called so that she can refute the charges, however, the justices denied his request. The justices next employed physical tests. When Susannah Shelton was asked to approach Willard she fell down immediately and explained that she could not go towards Willard because \"the black man stood between us.\" Willard then took her hand, which drew no effect from Susannah. Next, Mary Warren was brought to Willard in a \"great fit\" he then clasped his hand upon her arm and she recovered from her fits. Willard, noticing the contradiction, asked the justices \"why...was it not before so with Susannah Sheldon?\" Those standing by would answer his question by claiming \"because...you did not clasp your hand before.\"\n\nAt the close of his examination, the justices asked Willard to recite the Lord's prayer, which he could not do. Willard \"laught\" nervously and said \"it is a strange thing, I can say it at another time. I think I am bewitcht as well as they,\" finally he declared \"it is these wicked ones that do so overcome me.\" On August 5, 1692, John Willard was sentenced to death by hanging and on August 19, Willard along with George Burroughs, John Proctor, George Jacobs Sr, and Martha Carrier were hanged on Gallow's hill. \"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3448878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3448878", "title": "Joseph Pairin Kitingan", "text": "Joseph Pairin Kitingan\n\nTan Sri Datuk Seri Panglima Joseph Pairin Kitingan (born 17 August 1940) is a Malaysian politician who was the seventh Chief Minister of Sabah, a state in Malaysia, from April 1985 to March 1994. He has been Deputy Chief Minister and Minister of Infrastructure Development of Sabah since March 2004. He is the founder and President of United Sabah Party (PBS).\n\nPairin was born in Papar but his hometown is in the interior district of Tambunan.\nHe attended La Salle Secondary School, an all-boys school, located in Kota Kinabalu. He won a Colombo Plan scholarship and went on to read law at the University of Adelaide and upon completing his study, he came back to Sabah to work as a State Counsel with the Sabah Legal Department and was later made Deputy Public Prosecutor. Subsequently, he practised law with a local legal firm. Pairin is a Catholic, married to Genevieve Lee, a retired teacher. They have two sons, Alexander and Daniel, who are both trained lawyers. His brother Jeffrey Gapari Kitingan is also a politician, a former vice-president of Parti Keadilan Rakyat (PKR) after being former member of Parti Bersatu Sabah (PBS), Parti Bersatu Rakyat Sabah (PBRS), Parti Angkatan Keadilan Rakyat (AKAR), and United Pasokmomogun Kadazandusun Murut Organisation (UPKO), Parti Keadilan Rakyat (PKR), State Reform Party (STAR Sarawak) and finally heading his own party of Homeland Solidarity Party (STAR Sabah). Jeffrey also previously intended to join the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO), but his application were rejected.\n\nPairin began his active political career in 1975. He was elected a Member of the Sabah Legislative Assembly for the Tambunan electorate in 1976 under the Sabah People's United Front (BERJAYA) party ticket, a party which was led by Harris Salleh (Chief Minister 1976–1985) and was appointed as a Minister in the cabinet of the ruling party. Tambunan has become his stronghold ever since.\n\nOver time, Pairin became disillusioned with the party's leadership, and opposed some of the party's policies. He felt that the party had deviated from its original struggle. He however, remained firm with the party and subsequently, he was forced to leave the ruling party coalition in 1984.\n\nIn December 1984, he challenged as an Independent candidate against the ruling party to defend his seat in the Tambunan by-election. His leadership in a state within a federation which had the official religion of Islam, was also questioned because of his religion. Pairin easily won and defended his seat with significant majority.\n\nIn March 1985, Pairin formed Parti Bersatu Sabah (PBS). Despite overwhelming odds, he succeeded in registering PBS as a political party in the eleventh hour; thus paving the way for the party to contest against the incumbent state government in the Sabah state election, 1985 in April.\n\nPBS won a majority of 25 out of the 48 seats contested in the 1985 state elections. However, BERJAYA and the United Sabah National Organisation (USNO) joined forces submit their candidate as the chief minister, but after riots by BN followers, the newly formed coalition between BERJAYA and USNO was dissolved giving PBS the majority government. Pairin was sworn in as the seventh Chief Minister of the state of Sabah. He held the post of Sabah Chief Minister from April 1985 to March 1994, during which he spearheaded his party's triumphant outings in four successive state elections (1985, 1986, 1990 and 1994).\n\nIn the 1994 state election, PBS won the election, however shortly after being announced the winner, almost all PBS assemblymen defected to Barisan Nasional. Pairin was not allowed to be sworn in as Chief Minister. Tun Sakaran Dandai of UMNO was then sworn to be the eighth Chief Minister of Sabah.\n\nOn 6 June 2015, Pairin asserted a \"clear connection of the incident to the 2015 Sabah earthquake that has brought about so much damage and loss of lives\" by a group of European nude tourists on Mount Kinabalu \n\nPairin is also the \"Huguan Siou\" or Paramount Leader of the Kadazan-Dusun community for being the President of the Kadazandusun Cultural Association (KDCA), the community's principal cultural association. However, there is a growing concern that Pairin is no longer suitable to hold the Huguan Siou title and that he should give way to the younger generation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29483389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29483389", "title": "Juvenile life insurance", "text": "Juvenile life insurance\n\nJuvenile life insurance is permanent life insurance that insures the life of a child (generally under age 18). It is a financial planning tool that provides a tax advantaged savings vehicle with potential for a lifetime of benefits. Juvenile life insurance, or child life insurance, is usually purchased to protect a family against the sudden and unexpected costs of a funeral and burial with much lower face values. Should the juvenile survive to their college years it can then take on the form of a financial planning tool.\n\nLife insurance policies for children became popular in the 19th century to pay funeral and burial costs during a time of high infant mortality. Initially controversial, life insurance for children eventually gained broad acceptance. Unlike traditional life insurance, burial insurance policies were marketed typically to the poorer classes. Mutual aid societies sponsored burial insurance policies for immigrants and religiously affiliated groups. Such groups had their origins in ancient Rome, and were similar to burial societies, common in England during the industrial revolution and Jewish communities since the 13th-14th centuries.\n\nToday, funeral and burial policies (\"child life insurance\") typically have a face value ranging from $5,000 to $50,000; do not require a medical exam, and provide the owner of an unused policy the choice of a distribution of the accumulated cash value or the option to convert the policy into a permanent whole life policy. There are several companies well known for promoting and offering child life insurance. Funeral and burial insurance is similar to whole life insurance, but with lower face values, fewer rider options, and no medical underwriting.\n\nIn recent years, juvenile life insurance has become a popular college savings, lifetime savings, investment, and estate planning tool. It is increasingly popular with financial planners and insurance professionals for the following benefits: \n\n\nMost insurance carriers require that a parent have a life insurance policy in place prior to purchasing a policy for a child. A policy purchased for a child can have a face value up to half that in place for the parent (in New York it is up to a quarter of that which is in place for the parent up to the child's fifth year). A grandparent is eligible to purchase a policy for a grandchild with fewer limits.\n\nThe growth of the cash value inside an insurance policy in a tax-deferred environment (through guaranteed interest and credited dividends) creates lifetime saving opportunities that can be used for any purpose: to pay for college, finance the purchase of a home, establish a supplemental source of retirement income, or provide security, maintenance and support for future generations.\n\nA juvenile life insurance policy typically requires a minimum of $700 of annual premium, which provides approximately $100,000 of face value. The policy owner may utilize the gift tax exclusion amount (up to $15,000 per person per year per child, in 2018) to help pay the annual premium and avoid gift tax liability. Face amounts for juvenile life insurance policies of this type range from $100,000 to $10,000,000.\n\nMany insurance companies offer policies with a guaranteed interest rate plus a non-guaranteed dividend. Each insurance company’s dividend is determined by its claims, investment performance, and administrative expenses. Some companies have a record of consistently paying annual dividends for over 100 years. Several insurance companies offer the option of having a portion of the return based on the performance of an equity index.\n\nThe tax-free buildup of guaranteed interest and non-guaranteed dividends within an insurance policy provides a source of funds that are accessible within a week, at any time, for any purpose, and without penalty. The policy owner (typically a parent) controls access to funds and their use. After a child has reached adulthood he or she can be given ownership and control of the policy or it can remain in a trust. In either case, it provides coverage to meet the future insurance needs of the child, and a source of cash for the child's family.\n\nA grandparent or parent can pay the annual premiums for a juvenile life insurance policy using gift tax or generation-skipping tax excluded funds. The eventual face value will pass to the children or grandchildren of the insured income tax-free. Grandparents or parents wishing to reduce their taxable estate may choose to use juvenile life insurance, so that the cash value is not included in the grantor’s estate. If the policy is held by a trust, the face value may be excluded from the estate of the insured as well.\n\nMany juvenile life insurance policies can be written without the need for a medical exam. In the case of larger policies, a doctor or insurance agent may have to confirm the age, sex, height, weight, and apparent healthiness of the child. There are optional riders to the basic policy that can add up to $2,000,000 of guaranteed coverage.\n\nA policy owner is not required to disclose the existence of a policy to the insured. Furthermore the policy owner can determine when or if the insured is told of, or has access to, the cash value of a juvenile insurance policy. \n\nIf held within a trust the terms of the trust will govern access to, and use of policy funds. A juvenile life insurance policy in a trust may be free of estate taxes and not subject to the public and contestable probate process.\n\nA parent wishing to protect assets intended to benefit a child may purchase juvenile life insurance, as the cash value of a life insurance policy is usually protected by state law against creditors and lawsuits.\n\nWhole Juvenile Life is permanent whole life insurance that has a minimum guaranteed interest rate, plus a non-guaranteed dividend declared annually by the insurance company.\n\nIndexed Juvenile Life is permanent universal life insurance that has cash value increases linked to the performance of an equity index (e.g., S&P 500) up to a certain percentage (a “cap”) with downside protection (a “floor”). Certain Indexed Juvenile Life products have a guaranteed minimum interest rate of up to 2%.\n\nThe illustration shown is a Whole Juvenile Life policy, based on a three-year-old girl and a 2010 dividend and interest scale (combined rate of 6.85%) of an insurance company rated AA+ by S&P and Fitch. Annual premium of $3,600 or monthly premium of $305 is paid into the policy from age three to age seventeen inclusive. The initial face value of the juvenile life insurance policy is approximately $500,000. \n\nWhen the insured is age eighteen, an annual withdrawal of $10,000 (shown in bold) for four years is illustrated. This is to pay for tuition, room and board, and any other costs associated with college. When the insured is age thirty, the policy owner withdraws $14,000 (shown in italics) towards the wedding of the insured. Withdrawals can be used by the policy owner for any purpose.\n\nThe policy owner could transfer the policy to the newly married insured. The insured, who is now the owner of the policy, would be able to withdraw up to the remainder of the cash value ($56,565). If no withdrawals are taken, the designated beneficiaries are also protected by a fully paid policy of $500,275, which grows to $1,129,967 when the policy owner is eighty years old. Cash value would be $800,225 when the insured is eighty years old. \n\nCritics assert that juvenile life insurance is unnecessary due to the low likelihood of child mortality and that the insurance premiums should be used for other purposes. Proponents of juvenile life insurance argue that a well-structured policy minimizes the initial death benefit and maximizes cash value growth to provide a savings vehicle with a lifetime of benefit.\n\nCritics also claim that investing in stocks, bonds or mutual funds can provide higher returns with lower fees than a comparable juvenile life insurance policy. Although juvenile life insurance is not an investment product, proponents point to many juvenile life insurance products where cash value is 100% linked to equity indexes. This allows a policy owner to participate in stock market growth and do this in a tax advantaged environment. In addition, some of these products offer a growth floor, meaning the cash value of a juvenile life insurance product will never decrease.\n\nSome question the fees associated with life insurance products. They note that approximately half of the first year premium and an ongoing percentage of future premiums are paid as commissions to the insurance agent. Juvenile life insurance advocates note that over the long term, management fees for other financial products typically will exceed juvenile life insurance policy commissions. For example in the illustration above, typical management fees of 1% annually would exceed, in every year following the 6th year, the $900–$1,800 one-time commission payment paid to the insurance agent.\n\nLife insurance is a promise between the policy owner and the insurance company. A life insurance policy is expected to perform many years into the future; therefore the long-term financial viability of a firm is important when selecting an insurance company. The credit rating of an insurance company can be used to determine the financial health of an insurance company. Moody’s, A.M. Best Company, Fitch, and Standard and Poor’s provide such ratings.\n\nThe cash value of a juvenile life insurance policy can be borrowed or withdrawn at any time. Borrowing using the policy as the sole collateral is typically not a taxable event, although interest must be paid or accrued. A withdrawal up to the cumulative premium (also known as basis) paid into a policy is not subject to taxation. Withdrawals over the cumulative premium are taxable in the year that the money is withdrawn. If money is intended to be withdrawn, the policy is often transferred to the juvenile, who generally is in a lower income tax bracket than the policy owner.\n\nDeath proceeds of a juvenile life insurance policy are received by a beneficiary of the insured free of income tax. Proceeds are included in the estate of the deceased and may be subject to estate tax if the policy is not owned by a trust.\n\nTrusts are used extensively in conjunction with many forms of life insurance. A trust, such as a Crummey trust, allows for the cash value of a juvenile life insurance policy to be withdrawn and used without incurring federal or state income tax. For example, a Crummey trust for the purpose of paying for college and providing lifetime benefits could function as follows: \n\n\nIn this scenario, neither the child nor the parent ever have “control” or “ownership” of the policy and therefore distributions are excluded from any gift tax or estate tax and will be received at the insured’s income tax rate. The cash value of the juvenile life insurance policy is generally not included in a financial-aid assessment since the policy is owned by the trust, and is not considered as an asset of either the parents or the insured.\n"}
{"id": "59212762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59212762", "title": "Katherine of Ledbury", "text": "Katherine of Ledbury\n\nKatherine of Ledbury (also known as Katherine de Audley or St. Katherine of Ledbury; born 1272) was a Gloucestershire-born noblewoman of the 13th century who became an anchoress in Ledbury, Herefordshire. Katherine was the subject of William Wordsworth’s sonnet, “St. Catherine of Ledbury,” and is remembered as a patron saint of that town. She has often been confused with the 4th century martyr Catherine of Alexandria, whose cult in Ledbury preexisted hers.\n\nKatherine was born in 1272 in Brimpsfield, Gloucestershire, to John Giffard, 1st Baron Giffard, the owner of Brimpsfield Castle. She married the Baron Nicholas de Audley, had two sons and a daughter, and lived at Hellens Manor in Much Marcle. After her husband died in 1299, she became an anchoress in Ledbury. Various sources suggest she originally went missing on 25 February 1308, the day of King Edward II's coronation, before finally appearing in Ledbury as a recluse. The scholar Liz Hebert McAvoy has speculated that Katherine's disappearance and reappearance in Ledbury may have been an attempt to avoid being married to another lord after the death of her husband, which McAvoy claimed was common practice at that time.\n\nAccording to the antiquarian Rotha Mary Clay, Katherine gave away part of her maternal inheritance in 1312, and based on the location and signatory of the deed, it is likely she was already living in Ledbury and that the bishop had enclosed her as an anchoress in the church of St. Michael and All Angels.\n\nIn 1323, Katherine was receiving £30 a year through the sheriff of Ledbury, “the sums being paid,” according to Clay, “out of lands which were in the custody of her husband’s executor.” Clay concluded that Katherine had made arrangements about her property in order to obtain a pension that would fund her life as an anchoress.\n\nLegends have attributed clairvoyance and a miraculous power of prayer to Katherine. One Ledbury legend has it that Katherine chose to come to Ledbury because a vision had shown her she must not rest until she arrived at a place where the church bells rang unaided. According to Rotha Mary Clay, the legend narrates that Katherine and her maid Mabel “wandered from place to place, following out of Worcestershire into Herefordshire the hoof-marks of [Katherine's] mare which had been stolen.” The antiquarian Jabez Allies recounted that, in the version of the legend he'd heard, Katherine had prayed in response to the theft, and both the thief's footprints and the horse's hoof-prints had become \"deeply indented, not only in the earth, but also in the stones wherever they trod.\" The antiquarian later drew a sketch of the supposed marks, which he claimed to have found in the sandstone rocks of Whelpley Brook in Herefordshire and which the locals called the \"tracks of St. Catherine's Mare and Colt.\" He later claimed that local people also said the marks in the stones were a \"representation of the loaves which Saint Catherine used to give to the poor.\" The stones themselves were for many years used by local people as charms or safeguards against robbery, and according to the Saturday Review, people continued to believe the story of Katherine and her mare into the early 19th century. \n\nHaving continued her journey and reached the village of Bosbury, Katherine heard the bells ringing and sent Mabel to identify the cause. She said she knew \"she was to end her days at some place whose name terminated with bury.\" When Mabel returned and said the bells were being rung for a wedding, Katherine said this was not the place, and they continued on their journey. It was only upon reaching Ledbury that Katherine finally heard the church bells ringing of their own accord and decided to remain “under the shadow of the bell-tower” as an anchoress. After building a hermitage at the church, she was said to have lived on herbs and milk.\n\nAnother legend, repeated in the Worcester News, suggests that the fortunes of the town of Ledbury are linked to a prophecy of Katherine's:\n\nLegend has it that, before her death, [Katherine] declared that the door to the [St. Katherine] chapel should never be opened by human hands, but should always be allowed to open by itself. If this direction had been followed, Ledbury would have become \"the richest town in England.\" But drunken revellers disobeyed her instructions, and the town had to make do with a more modest, though not an unprosperous future.\n\nThe Chapter House of St. Michael and All Angels Church in Ledbury may have been built as a shrine to Katherine. \n\nThe Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition mentioned the following feast day of a \"St Catherine Audley\": \"In Celtic and English martyrologies (November 25) there is also commemorated St Catherine Audley (c. 1400), a recluse of Ledbury, Hereford, who was reputed for piety and clairvoyance.\"\n\nRotha Mary Clay has suggested that Katherine's sainthood came about as a result of confusion between her identity and that of Catherine of Alexandria, for whom a chapel, hospital, and almshouse in the town were named many years before Katherine de Audley was born.\n\nIn 1835, Wordsworth wrote the sonnet “St. Catherine of Ledbury” after taking a trip to Ledbury from Brinsop Court in Herefordshire, 20 miles away, where he was staying with his family. The poem immortalized the legend of Katherine and the bells:\n\n<poem>\nST. CATHERINE OF LEDBURY \nWhen human touch (as monkish books attest)\nNor was applied nor could be, Ledbury bells\nBroke forth in concert flung adown the dells,\nAnd upward, high as Malvern's cloudy crest;\nSweet tones, and caught by a noble lady blest\nTo rapture! Mabel listened at the side\nOf her loved mistress; soon the music died.\nAnd Catherine said, Here I set up my rest.\nWarned in a dream, the wanderer long had sought\nA home that by such miracle of sound\nMust be revealed: she heard it now, or felt\nThe deep, deep joy of a confiding thought;\nAnd there, a saintly anchoress, she dwelt\nTill she exchanged for heaven that happy ground.\n</poem>\n\n\n "}
{"id": "18998055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18998055", "title": "Kevin Hansen (volleyball)", "text": "Kevin Hansen (volleyball)\n\nKevin Christopher Hansen (born March 19, 1982) is an American volleyball player. He made his Olympic debut at the 2008 Summer Olympics with the U.S. national team.\n\nHansen was born and raised in Newport Beach, California. He attended high school at Corona del Mar and was named the California Interscholastic Federation (CIF) Most Valuable Player in 2000 and led the volleyball team to the CIF Division I Championship the same season.\n\nHansen is a type I diabetic, first diagnosed when he was 10 years old, and must inject himself with insulin at least four times a day.\n\nHansen continued on to Stanford University from 2000-2005 (as he redshirted his freshman year), and majored in economics.\n\nHe finished his career third on Stanford's list of career leaders with 5,036 assists, thus becoming just the third player in Stanford men's volleyball history to eclipse 5,000 career assists. He was an American Volleyball Coaches Association (AVCA) First-Team All-American as a fifth year senior in 2005.\n\nHansen joined the U.S. national team in June 2005, primarily as the backup setter to veteran Lloy Ball.\n\nIn 2008, he played at the FIVB World League, where Team USA won the gold medal. In 2007, he participated in Americas' Cup, earning a gold medal, the Pan American Games, earning a silver medal, and the FIVB World League, earning a bronze medal. His first major international competition was in 2005 at the World University Games.\n\nHansen made his Olympic debut at the 2008 Summer Olympics.\n\n"}
{"id": "40950461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40950461", "title": "Lawrence Shove", "text": "Lawrence Shove\n\nLawrence Clive Shove (5 November 1923 – 2 April 1995) was a British sound recordist, specialising in field recordings of wildlife.\n\nThe \"Shove collection of British wildlife\" at the National Sound Archive (NSA), part of the British Library comprises 243 reels of his recordings, on magnetic tape. In 1969, Shove was one of the first contributors to the NSA's wildlife collection, and their wildlife recording number 00001 is his 1966 recording of a Eurasian bittern at Hickling Broad, in Norfolk. The NSA acquired his complete collection of wildlife recordings in the mid-1990s.\n\nIn 1968, he was described by the BBC as \"the only full-time freelance recordist of wildlife sounds in Britain\". He was the subject of a BBC television \"The World About Us\" episode, screened on 9 April 1972, and appeared on several other BBC television and radio programmes in the late 1960s and early 1970s.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, he was manager of the Minack Theatre, Porthcurno, Cornwall.\n\nThe NSA have put most of Shove's recordings online, and as of November 2013 will extend access as part of a Europeana project.\n\n\nA series of 7\", 33⅓ rpm, EPs of Shove's wildlife recordings, with his narration, were published by Discourses as part of the \"Shell Nature\" series, in conjunction with Shell-Mex and BP Ltd. Featuring liner notes by Jeffery Boswall, these included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50674684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50674684", "title": "List of Britain's Got Talent finalists (series 10)", "text": "List of Britain's Got Talent finalists (series 10)\n\nThe tenth series of \"Britain's Got Talent\" started on 9 April 2016 and ended on 28 May 2016. The finalists are given in the order in which they finished.\n\nRichard Jones is a magician from London. He was the overall winner of the competition.\n\nAt the time of his BGT appearance, he was a soldier serving in the Cavalry band.\n\nWayne Woodward (born 1 April 1995) is an English swing singer. He was the runner up on the tenth series of \"Britain's Got Talent\". Woodward attended Kingston College and he has worked as a builder. He sang a rendition of \"The Way You Look Tonight\" at the audition, \"That’s Life\" in the semi final and \"Feeling Good\" in the final. Following his appearances on the show he is going into a recording studio to work on an album.\n\nBoogie Storm are a dancing stormtrooper act. They were Simon Cowell's golden buzzer act.\n\nJasmine Elcock (born 1 February 2002) is a singer from Essex. She was Ant & Dec's golden buzzer act. She previously took part in a stage production of \"Annie\".\n\nBeau Dermott is a musical theatre singer. Beau lives in Widnes, Cheshire with her parents. She attends The Hammond, theatre school in Chester. \n\nBeau rose to fame on \"Britain's Got Talent\". She was Amanda Holden's golden buzzer act. Her cousin Jack Higgins also took part in this series. \n\nBeau has signed with Decca Records and her first album, \"Brave\", was released on 1 September 2017.\n\nCraig Ball (both 11 September 1991) is a singing impressionist, sang his edition of \"Wrecking Ball\" in both auditions and finals and his version of Adele's \"Hello\" in the semi-final. He's currently working on singing impressions via YouTube.\n\nTrip Hazard is a dancing dog act along with his owner Lucy.\n\n100 Voices of Gospel are a gospel choir. They were Alesha Dixon's golden buzzer.\n\nAlex Magala is a sword swallower from Moldova.\n\nBalance Unity, real name Taylor Goodridge, is a dancer from London.\n\nShannon & Peter are a husband & wife dance duo. They were the judges wildcard.\n\nMel & Jamie are a mother & son singing duo.\n"}
{"id": "16620918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16620918", "title": "List of Thai people", "text": "List of Thai people\n\nThis is a \"list of Thai people\", persons from Thailand or of Thai descent.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18302541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18302541", "title": "List of bisexual people (T–Z)", "text": "List of bisexual people (T–Z)\n\nList of bisexual people including famous people who identify as bisexual and deceased people who have been identified as bisexual.\n"}
{"id": "53666014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53666014", "title": "Makhlouf Naït Rabah", "text": "Makhlouf Naït Rabah\n\nMakhlouf Naït Rabah (born April 9, 1996) is an Algerian footballer who plays for JS Kabylie in the Algerian Ligue Professionnelle 1. He plays primarily as a left-back.\n\nNaït Rabah started his career with JS Kabylie as a youngster in 2006, and represented Algeria at the Danone Nations Cup in 2008.\n"}
{"id": "17989289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17989289", "title": "Merle Sande", "text": "Merle Sande\n\nSande was a professor of Internal Medicine from 1971–1980 at the University of Virginia, where he performed research in mice on bacterial meningitis therapies such as novel antibiotics and corticosteroids. Dr Sande was Chief of Medical Services at San Francisco General Hospital in 1981 when he recognized a pattern of gay men being admitted with the rare pneumocystis pneumonia. His efforts on behalf of these patients resulted in the formation of an AIDS ward at San Francisco General Hospital and later an AIDS outpatient clinic. Teaming with such experts as Julie Gerberding and Paul Volberding he helped to craft what became known as the \"San Francisco model\" of AIDS therapy, a comprehensive, rational approach to care that avoided the fear and paranoia surrounding the disease at that time. The model addressed a need for infection-control guidelines, clinical studies and research financing and became a template for AIDS centers nationwide. Sande helped found to the Gladstone Institute of Virology and Immunology, which performed trials on some of the first anti-retrovirals such as zidovudine. He also helped to found the Infectious Diseases Institute at the Makerere University College of Health Sciences in Kampala, Uganda a major center for HIV education and research in Africa. Sande was a professor of Medicine at University of California, San Francisco from 1980–1996, chairman of the department internal medicine at University of Utah from 1996–2005 and Professor of medicine at University of Washington from 2005 until his death and president of the Infectious Diseases Society of America from 1993–4. He was also the editor of two highly regarded medical references \"The Medical Management of AIDS.\" and \"The Sanford Guide to Antimicrobial Therapy\". He also gave the always popular and well attended annual update in Infectious Diseases at the American College of Physicians annual meeting as well as the clinical case presentations at the Infectious Diseases Society of America annual meeting.\nSande died from complications of Multiple Myeloma in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "3871122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3871122", "title": "Michael Doucet", "text": "Michael Doucet\n\nMichael Louis Doucet (born February 14, 1951) is an American singer-songwriter and musician best known as the founder for the Cajun band BeauSoleil.\n\nDoucet was born in Scott, Louisiana. He learned banjo at age six, guitar at eight, and belonged to a Cajun rock band with his cousin, Zachary Richard, at twelve. In his early 20s, Doucet and his cousin went to France, and when he got home he added violin to his music studies. Violin became his primary instrument, though he also plays accordion and mandolin.\n\nIn 1975, he started the Cajun band Coteau, and two years later he started BeauSoleil with Kenneth Richard and Sterling Richard. Beausoleil plays an eclectic combination of traditional Cajun music, blues, country, jazz, and zydeco. Doucet has been a member of a more traditional Cajun band, the Savoy-Doucet Cajun Band with Ann Savoy and Marc Savoy, and Fiddlers 4 with Darol Anger, Rushad Eggleston, and Bruce Molsky. He began teaching in 1977 at the University of Southwestern Louisiana.\n\nIn 1975, Doucet received an NEA Folk Arts Apprenticeship Grant to study Cajun fiddle styles from masters such as Varise Conner, Hector Duhon, Canray Fontenot, Lionel LeLeux, and Dennis McGee.\n\nDoucet is a recipient of a 2005 National Heritage Fellowship awarded by the National Endowment for the Arts, which is the United States' highest honor in the folk and traditional arts. Two years later, he was named a USA Collins Family Foundation Fellow and awarded a $50,000 grant by United States Artists, a public charity that supports and promotes the work of American artists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2064489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2064489", "title": "Michele Bachmann", "text": "Michele Bachmann\n\nMichele Marie Bachmann (; née Amble; born April 6, 1956) is an American politician. A member of the Republican Party, she is a former member of the United States House of Representatives, who represented Minnesota's 6th congressional district from 2007 to 2015. The district includes several of the northern suburbs of the Twin Cities, as well as St. Cloud.\n\nBachmann was a candidate for the Republican nomination in the 2012 U.S. presidential election, winning the Ames Straw Poll in August 2011 but dropping out in January 2012 after finishing in sixth place in the Iowa caucuses. She previously served in the Minnesota Senate and is the first Republican woman to represent the state in Congress. She is a supporter of the Tea Party movement and a founder of the House Tea Party Caucus.\nBachmann was born Michele Marie Amble in Waterloo, Iowa, \"into a family of Norwegian Lutheran Democrats\"; her family moved from Iowa to Minnesota when she was 13 years old. After her parents divorced, Bachmann's father, David John Amble, moved to California, and Bachmann was raised by her mother, Arlene Jean (née Johnson), who worked at the First National Bank in Anoka, Minnesota. Her mother remarried when Bachmann was a teenager; the new marriage resulted in a family with nine children.\n\nShe graduated from Anoka High School in 1974 and, after graduation, spent one summer working on kibbutz Be'eri in Israel. In 1978, she graduated from Winona State University with a B.A.\n\nIn 1979, Bachmann was a member of the first class of the O. W. Coburn School of Law, then a part of Oral Roberts University (ORU). While there, Bachmann studied with John Eidsmoe, whom she described in 2011 as \"one of the professors who had a great influence on me\". Bachmann worked as a research assistant on Eidsmoe's 1987 book \"Christianity and the Constitution\", which argues that the United States was founded as a Christian theocracy and should become one again. In 1986 Bachmann received a J.D. degree from Oral Roberts University. She was a member of the ORU law school's final graduating class, and was part of a group of faculty, staff, and students who moved the ORU law school library to what is now Regent University.\n\nIn 1988, Bachmann received an LL.M. degree in tax law from William & Mary Law School. From 1988 to 1993 she worked as an attorney for the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). She left the IRS to become a full-time mother when her fourth child was born.\n\nMichele Marie Amble was born in Waterloo, Iowa on April 6, 1956, to Norwegian-American parents David John Amble (1929–2003) and \"Arlene\" Jean Amble (née Johnson) (born c. 1932). One pair of her great-great-great grandparents, Melchior and Martha Munson, left Sogndal in Norway and arrived in Wisconsin in 1857. She was still a young girl when her father, an engineer, moved the family to Brooklyn Park, Minnesota. She was 14 years old when her parents filed for divorce. Her father remarried and moved to California, and young Michele and her mother Jean moved to Anoka, Minnesota. Her mother remarried three years later to widower Raymond J. LaFave.\n\nIn 1978, she married Marcus Bachmann, now a clinical therapist with a master's degree from Regent University and a Ph.D. from Union Graduate School, whom she met while they were undergraduates. After she received an LL.M. in taxation from William & Mary School of Law in 1988, the couple moved to Stillwater, Minnesota, a town of 18,000 near Saint Paul, where they run a Christian counseling center that provided gay conversion therapy. Bachmann and her husband have five children: Lucas, Harrison, Elisa, Caroline, and Sophia. Bachmann said in a 2011 town hall meeting that she suffered a miscarriage after the birth of their second child, Harrison, an event she said shaped her pro-life views.\n\nBachmann and her husband have also provided foster care to 23 other children, all teenage girls. The Bachmanns were licensed from 1992 to 2000 to handle up to three foster children at a time; the last child arrived in 1998. The Bachmanns began by providing short-term care for girls with eating disorders who were patients in a University of Minnesota program. The Bachmann home was legally defined as a treatment home, with a daily reimbursement rate per child from the state. Some girls stayed a few months, others more than a year.\n\nShe is a former beauty pageant queen.\n\nIn May 2012, it was reported that Marcus Bachmann had registered for Swiss citizenship and after it was finalized, Michele Bachmann automatically became a citizen as well. The Bachmanns and their three youngest children were granted citizenship on March 19, 2012. They had been eligible for this under Swiss nationality law because Marcus Bachmann's parents were Swiss. Bachmann denied that she or her husband had applied for Swiss citizenship, saying that her husband had already been a dual citizen as the son of Swiss immigrants, and that she had automatically acquired Swiss citizenship under then-current Swiss law when she married him in 1978. But in May 2012, when a Swiss Television reporter said to her \"I understand you just got Swiss citizenship\", Bachmann's reply was: \"Yes, we did.\" Marcus Bachmann did not register the marriage with the Swiss authorities until 2012. Within two days of the first reports of Bachmann's dual citizenship, she announced that she had written to the Swiss consulate to have her Swiss citizenship withdrawn.\n\nBachmann was a longtime member of Salem Lutheran Church (Wisconsin Evangelical Lutheran Synod) in Stillwater. She and her husband withdrew their membership on June 21, 2011, just before she officially began her presidential campaign. They had not attended the church for over two years. More recently, according to friends, the Bachmanns began attending Eagle Brook Church, an Evangelical Protestant Baptist church closer to their home.\n\nBachmann has cited theologian Francis Schaeffer as a \"profound influence\" on her life and her husband's, especially his film series \"How Should We Then Live?\". She has also described \"Total Truth: Liberating Christianity from Its Cultural Captivity\" by Nancy Pearcey as a \"wonderful\" book. Journalist Ryan Lizza has argued that Bachmann's worldview is deeply influenced by the Christian movement known as Dominionism, citing the influence of Schaeffer and Pearcey as evidence. Others have criticized Lizza's article, especially its connection of Schaeffer with Dominionism. Religion writer Sarah Posner broadly concurs with Lizza, pointing to the influence of Christian Reconstructionists Herb Titus and R. J. Rushdoony on Bachmann via the curriculum at O. W. Coburn School of Law.\n\nBachmann and her husband own a Christian counseling practice, Bachmann & Associates. The clinic is run by her husband, who has a Ph.D. with \"a concentration in clinical psychology\" from Union Graduate School. Marcus Bachmann is not a licensed clinical psychologist in Minnesota. The clinic received nearly $30,000 from Minnesota government agencies between 2006 and 2010 in addition to at least $137,000 in federal payments and $24,000 in government grants for counselor training. When asked about the subject in an interview, Bachmann indicated that she and her husband had not benefited at taxpayer expense, saying, \"the money that went to the clinic was actually training money for employees\". Marcus Bachmann has denied allegations that Bachmann & Associates provides conversion therapy, a controversial psychological treatment repudiated by the American Psychological Association that attempts to transform homosexuals into heterosexuals. A former client of Bachmann's clinic and a hidden camera investigator with the activist group Truth Wins Out have said that therapists at the clinic do engage in such practices, but columnist Mariah Blake of \"The Nation\" has suggested the hidden camera investigator may have been intentionally baiting the therapist to say something controversial. In a subsequent interview with the \"Star Tribune\", Marcus Bachmann did not deny that he or other counselors at his clinic used the technique but said they did so only at a client's request.\n\nIn personal financial disclosure reports for 2006 through 2009, Bachmann reported earning $32,500 to $105,000 from a farm that was owned at the time by her ailing father-in-law, Paul Bachmann. The farm received $260,000 in federal crop and disaster subsidies between 1995 and 2008. Bachmann said that in 2006–2009, her husband acted as a trustee of the farm for his dying father and so, out of \"an abundance of caution\", she claimed the farm as income in financial disclosures, though it was her in-laws who profited from the farm during that period.\n\nBachmann grew up in a Democratic family, but she says she became a Republican during her senior year at Winona State. She told the Minneapolis \"Star Tribune\" that she was reading Gore Vidal's 1973 novel \"Burr\": \"He was kind of mocking the Founding Fathers and I just thought, I just remember reading the book, putting it in my lap, looking out the window and thinking, 'You know what? I don't think I am a Democrat. I must be a Republican.\n\nWhile still a Democrat, she and her then-fiancé Marcus were inspired to join the pro-life movement by Francis Schaeffer's 1976 Christian documentary film \"How Should We Then Live?\" They prayed outside of clinics and engaged in sidewalk counseling, a pro-life protest activity in which activists approach people entering abortion clinics in an attempt to dissuade women from obtaining abortions. Since then, Bachmann has made statements supportive of sidewalk counseling. Bachmann was a supporter of Jimmy Carter in 1976, and she and her husband worked on his campaign. During Carter's presidency, Bachmann became disappointed with his liberal approach to public policy, support for legalized abortion and economic decisions she held responsible for increased gas prices. In the 1980 presidential election, she voted for Ronald Reagan and worked for his campaign.\n\nHer political activism gained media attention at a pro-life protest in 1991. She and approximately 30 other pro-life citizens went to a Ramsey County Board meeting where a $3 million appropriation was to go to build a morgue for the county at St. Paul-Ramsey Medical Center (now Regions Hospital). The Medical Center performed abortions and employed pro-choice activist Jane Hodgson. Bachmann attended the meeting to protest public tax dollars going to the hospital; speaking to the \"Star Tribune\", she said that \"in effect, since 1973, I have been a landlord of an abortion clinic, and I don't like that distinction\".\n\nIn 1993, she and other parents started the K-12 New Heights Charter School in Stillwater. The publicly funded school's charter mandated that it be non-sectarian in all programs and practices, but the school soon developed a strong Christian orientation. Parents of students at the school complained and the superintendent of schools warned Bachmann that the school was in violation of state law. Six months after the school's founding Bachmann resigned and the Christian orientation was removed from the curriculum, allowing the school to keep its charter. Bachmann began speaking against a state-mandated set of educational standards, which propelled her into the world of politics.\n\nBachmann became a critic and opponent of Minnesota's School-to-Work policies. In a 1999 column, she wrote: \"School-to-Work alters the basic mission and purpose of K-12 academic education away from traditional broad-based academic studies geared toward maximizing intellectual achievement of the individual. Instead, School-to-Work utilizes the school day to promote children's acquisition of workplace skills, viewing children as trainees for increased economic productivity.\"\n\nIn November 1999, she and four other Republicans were candidates, as the \"Slate of Five\", in an election for the school board of Stillwater. All five lost.\n\nIn 2000, Bachmann defeated 18-year incumbent Gary Laidig for the Republican nomination for State Senator for Minnesota District 56. In the November 2000 general election, she defeated Ted Thompson of the Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party (DFL) and Lyno Sullivan of the Minnesota Independence Party, to win the seat. Two years later, in November 2002, after redistricting due to the 2000 Census, Bachmann defeated another incumbent, State Senator Jane Krentz of the DFL, in the newly drawn State Senate District 52. In office, Bachmann's agenda focused on the cultural conservative issues of opposition to abortion and gay marriage.\n\nOn November 20, 2003, Bachmann and Representative Mary Liz Holberg proposed a constitutional amendment that would bar the state from legally recognizing same-sex marriage. In 2004, Bachmann and a coalition of religious leaders announced plans for a \"Minnesota for Marriage\" rally. Bachmann's effort to place a marriage amendment on a referendum ballot in 2004 ultimately failed. She resurrected her proposal in March 2005, but it stalled indefinitely in a senate committee that April.\n\nIn November 2004, Republican Senate Minority Leader Dick Day appointed Bachmann as Assistant Minority Leader in charge of Policy for the Senate Republican Caucus. In July 2005, the Republican Caucus removed her from her leadership position. Bachmann said that disagreements with Day over her anti-tax stance were the reason for her ouster.\n\nFrom January 2007 to January 2015 Bachmann represented , which includes the northernmost and eastern suburbs of the Twin Cities and St. Cloud. She is the first Republican woman to be elected to the U.S. House from Minnesota.\n\nIn January 2007, a resolution was approved in the House of Representatives opposing President George W. Bush's plan to increase troop levels in Iraq. Bachmann voted \"No\". But before supporting the proposed surge, Bachmann called for a full hearing, saying, \"The American people deserve to hear and understand the merits of increasing U.S. troop presence in Iraq. Increased troop presence is justifiable if that measure would bring a swift conclusion to a difficult conflict.\" She hesitated to give a firm endorsement, calling the hearings \"a good first step in explaining to the American people the course toward victory in Iraq\". When pressed, she said she had not come to any conclusion on the matter, saying, \"I don't believe we have all of the information in front of us. As a member of Congress that's why I want to go to Iraq as quickly as I can. I want to get the best information in front of me.\"\n\nIn July 2007, Bachmann joined a Congressional delegation visiting Ireland, Germany, Pakistan, Kuwait, and Iraq. Bachmann met briefly (due to security concerns) with U.S. personnel in the Green Zone and upon her return she said she \"was encouraged by reports of progress from Crocker, Gen. David Petraeus and other personnel in Iraq linked to the surge\". She said the surge \"hasn't had a chance to be in place long enough to offer a critique of how it's working. (Gen. Petraeus) said al-Qaida in Iraq is off its plan and we want to keep it that way. The surge has only been fully in place for a week or so.\"\n\nBachmann also spoke of the delegation's visit to Islamabad to meet Pakistani Prime Minister Aziz at the same time as the siege of Islamic fundamentalists at the Lal Masjid mosque elsewhere in the city. She reported that \"The group [of U.S. Legislators] had to travel in armored vehicles and was constantly accompanied by Pakistani military ... We were all able to see extremely up close and personal what it's like to be in a region where fighting is occurring. We constantly felt like we were in need of security.\" Bachmann told reporters upon her return that \"the dangers posed by Islamic terrorism in Iraq, Britain and Pakistan justified the continued American military presence in Iraq.\" She said \"We don't want to see al-Qaida get a presence in the United States. Al-Qaida doesn't seem to show any signs of letting up. We have to keep that in mind.\"\n\nOn July 11, 2007, Bachmann voted against the College Cost Reduction and Access Act that raised the maximum Pell grant from $4,310 to $5,200, lower interest rates on subsidized student loans to 3.4 percent from 6.8 percent, raise loan limits to $30,500 from $7,500, disfavor married students who file joint tax returns, provide more favorable repayment terms to students who fail to use their education to prosper financially and favor public sector over private sector workers with much more favorable loan forgiveness benefits. Supporters of the bill said \"it would allow more students to attend college\". Bachmann said her opposition was because \"it fails students and taxpayers with gimmicks, hidden costs and poorly targeted aid. It contains no serious reform of existing programs, and it favors the costly, government-run direct lending program over nonprofit and commercial lenders.\" The bill passed the House and was signed by President Bush.\n\nDuring the summer of 2008, as national gasoline prices rose to over $4 a gallon, Bachmann became a leading Congressional advocate for increased domestic oil and natural gas exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) and the Outer Continental Shelf. She joined ten other House Republicans and members of the media on a Congressional Energy Tour to the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden, Colorado, and to Alaska. The trip was set up by Arctic Power, an Alaskan lobbying group that advocates for ANWR development. The purpose of the trip was to receive a firsthand account of emerging renewable energy technologies and the prospects of increased domestic oil and natural gas production in Alaska, including ANWR.\n\nBachmann has said that global warming is \"all voodoo, nonsense, hokum, a hoax\" and has been called \"one of the GOP's loudest global warming skeptics\". She has said that carbon dioxide is \"a natural byproduct of nature\" and a beneficial gas required by plant life. She stated that because life requires carbon dioxide and it is part of the planet's life cycle, it cannot be harmful. In a statement she made on the House floor on Earth Day, April 22, 2009, Bachmann stated she was against the cap and trade climate legislation, stating: \"Carbon dioxide is not a harmful gas, it is a harmless gas. Carbon dioxide is natural; it is not harmful ... We're being told we have to reduce this natural substance to create an arbitrary reduction in something that is naturally occurring in the earth.\"\n\nIn March 2008 Bachmann introduced H.R. 849, the Light Bulb Freedom of Choice Act. The bill would have repealed two sections of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 signed into law by George W. Bush. The 2007 Energy Act mandates energy efficiency and labeling standards for incandescent and fluorescent bulbs. Bachmann's bill would have required the Government Accountability Office to show that a change to fluorescent bulbs would have \"clear economic, health and environmental benefits\" before enforcing lighting efficiency regulations. The bill would have allowed these standards to remain in place if the comptroller general found they would lead to consumer savings, reduce carbon-dioxide emissions and pose no health risks to consumers (such as risks posed by the presence of mercury in fluorescent bulbs). The bill languished in the House and became inactive at the end of the 110th Congress. Bachmann reintroduced the bill in March 2011.\n\nOn June 3, 2008, President Bush signed the Credit and Debit Card Receipt Clarification Act (H.R. 4008) into law. The bipartisan bill, which Bachmann cosponsored with Congressman Tim Mahoney (D-Fla.), removes statutory damages for violations of a 2003 federal law prohibiting merchants from printing consumers' credit card numbers and expiration dates on sales receipts, in order to end class-action lawsuits aimed at businesses that violated the law.\n\nBachmann opposed both versions of the Wall Street bailout bill for America's financial sector.\n\nShe voted against the first proposed $700 billion bailout of financial institutions, which failed to pass, 205–228. She also advocated breaking up Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and barring executives from excessive compensation or golden parachutes, and advocated a plan that would suspend mark-to-market accounting rules and suspend the capital gains tax.\n\nThe American auto companies approached Congress to ask for roughly $15 billion in loans to keep them operational into 2009. Bachmann criticized that bill, fearing that the initial sum of money would be followed by subsequent ones without the companies making changes to revive their business. Bachmann supported an alternative rescue for the American auto companies and the rest of the auto industry that would have set benchmarks for reducing their debt and renegotiating labor deals and have set up the financial assistance as interim insurance instead of a taxpayer-financed bailout.\n\nOn October 17, 2008, Bachmann gave an interview on MSNBC's \"Hardball with Chris Matthews\" in support of the presidential campaign of Senator John McCain that brought the Minnesota 6th Congressional District race national attention. During the interview she criticized Barack Obama for his association with Jeremiah Wright and Bill Ayers, saying \"... usually we associate with people who have similar ideas to us, and it seems that it calls into question what Barack Obama's true beliefs, and values, and thoughts are ... I am very concerned that he [Barack Obama] may have anti-American views.\" She noted the bombing campaign orchestrated by Bill Ayers before discussing his association with Obama, arguing that \"Bill Ayers is not someone the average American wants to see their president have an association with.\" Matthews followed up by asking \"But he <nowiki>[Obama]</nowiki> is a Senator from the state of Illinois; he's one of the members of Congress you suspect of being anti-American. How many people in the Congress of the United States do you think are anti-American? You've already suspected Barack Obama, is he alone or are there others?\" Bachmann answered, \"What I would say is that the news media should do a penetrating exposé and take a look ... I wish they would ... I wish the American media would take a great look at the views of the people in Congress and find out are they pro-America, or anti-America. I think people would love to see an exposé like that.\"\n\nThe five Democratic members of Minnesota's congressional delegation – Tim Walz, Betty McCollum, Keith Ellison, Collin Peterson and Jim Oberstar – issued a joint statement in which they questioned her ability to \"work in a bipartisan way to put the interests of our country first in this time of crisis\". Former Secretary of State Colin Powell and former Minnesota Governor Arne Carlson said her comments had influenced their decisions to endorse Obama for president.\n\nBachmann brought up the interview before business leaders and Republicans during a campaign stop in St. Cloud, Minnesota, on October 21, 2008. She stated that she never intended to question Obama's patriotism. \"I made a misstatement. I said a comment that I would take back. I did not, nor do I, question Barack Obama's patriotism ... I did not say that Barack Obama is anti-American nor do I believe that Barack Obama is anti-American ... [But] I'm very concerned about Barack Obama's views. I don't believe that socialism is a good thing for America.\" In March 2010, Bachmann said, \"I said I had very serious concerns that Barack Obama had anti-American views—and now I look like Nostradamus\" while speaking at a fund-raiser for the Susan B. Anthony List. A year later, in March 2011, Bachmann was asked on \"Meet the Press\" if she still believed that Obama held un-American views. She responded, \"I believe that the actions of this government have—have been emblematic of ones that have not been based on true American values.\" Pressed for clarification, she said, \"I've already answered that question before. I said I had very serious concerns about the president's views.\"\n\nOn March 26, 2009, following comments by China proposing adoption of a global reserve currency, Bachmann introduced a resolution calling for a Constitutional amendment to bar the dollar from being replaced by a foreign currency. Current law prohibits foreign currency from being recognized in the U.S., but Bachmann expressed concerns relating to the president's power to make and interpret treaties. Earlier that month, at a Financial Services Committee hearing, Bachmann asked both Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke whether they would reject calls for the U.S. to move away from the U.S. dollar and they replied that they would.\n\nIn a June 17, 2009, interview with \"The Washington Times\", Bachmann expressed concern that the questions on the 2010 United States Census had become \"very intricate, very personal\" and that ACORN, a community organizing group that had come under fire the previous year, might be part of the Census Bureau's door-to-door information collection efforts. She stated, \"I know, for my family, the only question we will be answering is how many people are in our home. We won't be answering any information beyond that, because the Constitution doesn't require any information beyond that.\" According to Politifact, her statement was incorrect, as the Constitution does require citizens to complete the census. Fellow Republican Representatives Patrick McHenry (N.C.), Lynn Westmoreland (Ga.) and John Mica (Fla.) – members of the Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census and National Archives, which oversees the census – subsequently asked Bachmann not to boycott the population count.\n\nAlong with Congressman Ted Poe (Tex.-02), Bachmann introduced the American Community Survey Act to limit the amount of personal information solicited by the U.S. Census Bureau. She reiterated her belief that the census asks too many personal questions.\n\nIn March 2009, Bachmann was interviewed by the Northern Alliance Radio Network and promoted two forums she was hosting the next month in St. Cloud and Woodbury about Obama's proposed cap-and-trade tax policy to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Bachmann said she wanted Minnesotans \"armed and dangerous on this issue of the energy tax because we need to fight back.\" Bachmann's office quickly clarified that she was speaking metaphorically, meaning \"armed with knowledge.\" According to the \"Star Tribune\", her quote went viral across the Internet.\n\nIn 2009, Bachmann became a critic of what she characterized as proposals for mandatory public service. Of the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act, an expansion to AmeriCorps (a federal community service organization), she said in April:\nThe original bill called for an exploration of whether a mandatory public service program could be established, but the section on creating a \"Congressional Commission on Civic Service\" was stripped from the bill.\n\nIn August 2009, Bachmann's political opponents publicized in the local media and the blogosphere what they described as the \"ironic\" fact that her son, Harrison, joined Teach for America, part of the AmeriCorps program.\n\nBachmann contributed to the \"death panel\" controversy when she read from a July 24 article written by Betsy McCaughey from the floor of the House. Sarah Palin said that her \"death panel\" remark was inspired by what she called the \"Orwellian\" opinions of Ezekiel Emanuel as described by Bachmann, who accused him of advocating health care rationing by age and disability. According to \"PolitiFact\" and \"TIME\", Bachmann's euthanasia remarks distorted Emanuel's position on health care for the elderly and disabled. FactCheck.org stated, \"We agree that Emanuel's meaning is being twisted.\" When many doctors wanted to legalize euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide, Emanuel opposed it.\n\nOn August 31, 2009, Bachmann spoke at an event in Colorado, saying of Democratic health care overhaul proposals that: She outlined ideas for changing the health care system, including: \"Erase the boundaries around every single state when it comes to health care\", enabling consumers to purchase insurance across state lines; increase the use of health savings accounts and allow everyone to \"take full deductibility of all medical expenses\", including insurance premiums; and tort reform.\n\nBachmann denounced the government-run health insurance public option, calling it a \"government takeover of health care\" that would \"squeeze out private health insurance\".\n\nIn an interview with Anderson Cooper on November 3, 2010, when discussing cuts in government spending for Medicare and Social Security suggested by Congressman Paul Ryan, Bachmann was asked what cuts in government spending she would make to reduce the deficit. She cited President Obama's then-upcoming visit to Asia as an example, saying it \"is expected to cost the taxpayers $200 million a day. He's taking two thousand people with him. He'll be renting out over 870 rooms in India. And these are 5-star hotel rooms at the Taj Mahal Palace hotel. This is the kind of over-the-top spending, it's a very small example, Anderson.\" Bachmann was apparently referring to information in a story from the Press Trust of India, attributed to \"a top official of the Maharashtra Government privy to the arrangements for the high-profile visit\", information that was also published in U.S.-based media such as The Drudge Report. In response to the news report's claim that 34 warships were accompanying the President, a Pentagon spokesman, Geoff Morrell, dismissed the account as \"comical\". The White House said that the press report figures were \"wildly inflated\" and had \"no basis in reality\". While stating that they could not give the actual projected figures for security reasons, staffers maintained costs were in line with the official travel costs of previous presidents Bush and Clinton.\n\nAfter the 2010 elections and the announcement from Rep. Mike Pence that he was stepping away from his leadership position in the House, Bachmann announced on her Facebook page her intention to seek the position of House Republican Conference Chair. As Bachmann is the founder of the House's Tea Party Caucus, her announcement caused some to see the leadership election as \"an early test of how GOP leaders will treat the antiestablishment movement's winners\". Many among the House's Republican leadership, including Eric Cantor and the retiring Mike Pence, were quick to endorse Rep. Jeb Hensarling for the position; Speaker-to-be John Boehner remained neutral on the issue. Supporters of Bachmann's run include Reps. Steve King, John Kline, Louie Gohmert, Chip Cravaack, Erik Paulsen, as well as media personality and political commentator Glenn Beck. Listing her qualifications for the position Bachmann noted \"I've done an effective job speaking out at a national and local level, motivating people with our message, calling attention to deficits in Obama's policy. I was instrumental in bringing tens of thousands of people to the U.S. capitol to rally against Obama care and to attend our press conference.\" She noted her work to keep the Tea Party within the GOP rather than having it become a third party thereby helping the party capture the House, stating \"I have been able to bring a voice and motivate people to, in effect, put that gavel in John Boehner's hands, so that Republicans can lead going forward. …It's important that leadership represents the choice of the people coming into our caucus….I think I have motivated a high number of people to get involved in this cycle who may have sat it out and that have made a difference on a number of these races. I gave a large amount of money to NRCC and individual candidates and started Michele PAC, which raised $650,000 for members since July, so I was able to financially help about 50 people out.\"\n\nBachmann's bid suffered a setback when she was passed over for the GOP's transition team on which Hensarling was placed. Despite Bachmann's leading all other Representatives in fund raising, a Republican aide stated some \"members are getting resentful of Bachmann, who they say is making the argument that you're not really a Tea Party supporter unless you support her. That's gone through the formation of the Tea Party Caucus and the formation of this candidacy of hers. It's just not so.\" Sarah Palin, with whom Bachmann had campaigned earlier in the year, declined to endorse her leadership bid, while other Tea Party favorites Reps Adam Kinzinger and Tim Scott were placed on the transition team. According to some senior House staff members, the party leadership was concerned about some of Bachmann's high profile faux pas, the high rate of turnover among her staff, and how willing she would be to advance the party's messaging rather than her own.\n\nOn November 10, Bachmann released a statement ending her campaign for Conference Chair and giving her \"enthusiastic\" support to Hensarling.\n\nBachmann was selected by House Speaker John Boehner for a position \"on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, giving her a new role as overseer of the Central Intelligence Agency, the National Security Agency and the rest of the U.S. intelligence community.\" Bachmann, who had \"not served on any committee that deals with foreign policy issues\" requested the position, \"a move that has fueled speculation that she may be planning to carry the Tea Party banner into the GOP presidential primaries.\"\n\nSoon after being sworn into her third term, Bachmann introduced legislation to repeal the Dodd-Frank financial reform law. She stated, \"I'm pleased to offer a full repeal of the job-killing Dodd-Frank financial regulatory bill. Dodd-Frank grossly expanded the federal government beyond its jurisdictional boundaries. It gave Washington bureaucrats the power to interpret and enforce the legislation with little oversight. Real financial regulatory reform must deal with these lenders who were a leading cause of our economic recession. True reform must also end the bailout mind-set that was perpetuated by the last Congress.\" She also took issue with the law for not addressing the liabilities of the tax-payer funded Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Bachmann's bill was endorsed by conservative groups such as the Club for Growth and Americans for Prosperity. It gained four other Republican co-sponsors, including Rep. Darrell Issa, who became the new chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee at the start of the 112th Congress. Bachmann's call for total repeal was seen as more drastic than the approach advocated by her fellow Republican Spencer Bachus who became the House Financial Services Committee Chairman with the change of majority in the House. Bachus \"plans to provide 'vigorous' oversight of regulators efforts to reform banking and housing ... reform Fannie and Freddie\", and \"dismantle pieces of [the] Dodd-Frank Act that he believes 'unnecessarily punish small businesses and community banks.'\" In response to Bachmann's legislation Rep Barney Frank stated, \"Michele Bachmann, the Club for Growth, and others in the right-wing coalition have now made their agenda for the financial sector very clear: they yearn to return to the thrilling days of yesteryear, so the loan arrangers can ride again—untrammeled by any rules restraining irresponsibility, excess, deception, and most of all, infinite leverage.\" The chances of Bachmann's legislation passing were viewed as unlikely, the \"Financial Times\" wrote that \"Like the Republican move to repeal healthcare reform, Ms Bachmann's bill could be passed by the House of Representatives but be blocked by the Senate or White House.\"\n\nBachmann responded to President Obama's 2011 State of the Union speech for the Tea Party Express website; this speech was broadcast live by CNN. She insisted that her response was not intended to counter the official Republican party response by Rep. Paul Ryan of Wisconsin. When asked if the speech was an indication of competition with Ryan and Speaker Boehner's leadership team, Bachmann dismissed such a view as \"a fiction of the media\", she had alerted Ryan and the leadership team that her response might go national and no objections were raised.\n\nBachmann has characterized the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as \"ObamaCare\", and has continually called for its repeal. She recalled to reporters that she called for debate to repeal the act \"the morning after Obamacare passed\". Joining with Rep. Steve King she introduced \"the Bachmann-King repeal of health care bill\" stating that it \"is our intent in our heart to make sure that Obamacare is completely repealed.\" In light of a Democratic held Senate and Presidency that oppose repeal, Bachmann called on the Republican held House of Representatives to not provide any funds for the implementation of the act \"But until we can see that [repeal] happen, we want to fully defund this bill so that, like, it would be akin to a helium balloon that gets no helium inside so that it can't take off the ground, and that's what we're planning to do. I'm very, very grateful for nothing else; having a majority in the House of Representatives so that we have the ability of the power of the purse to not fund Obamacare, and this is exactly the right way to go.\"\n\nOn March 4, 2011, Bachmann (who was one of the six House Republicans to vote against the continuing resolution) expressed her unhappiness with the move that gave a two-week reprieve to the fear of government shutdown, stating \"I am vowing to vote 'no' on future Continuing Resolutions to fund the government unless there is specific language included to defund Obamacare and rescind the funding that has already been appropriated. Defunding Obamacare, along with defunding Planned Parenthood, must be non-negotiable planks in our budget negotiations.\"\n\nIn an appearance on \"Meet the Press\" on March 6, 2011, and during a March 7, 2011, interview with Sean Hannity, Bachmann declared that the Obama administration and the Congressional Democrats had hidden $105 billion in spending in the overhaul of the American Health Care System. She portrayed the Democratic leadership as timing the release of the bill's text to avoid detection of the spending \"We didn't get the bill until a literally couple of hours before we were supposed to vote on it.\" She also stated the spending was split up within different portions of the bill to mask its total cost. Bachmann was alerted of the situation by the conservative Heritage Foundation which read the tallies of the Congressional Research Service and Congressional Budget Office.\n\nReports listed a partial breakdown of the costs which include \"about $40 billion would go to the Children's Health Insurance Program, $15 billion would go to Medicare and Medicaid innovation programs, and $9.5 billion would go to the Community Health Centers Fund.\" As the funds are designated mandatory spending (they are not controlled by the annual appropriations acts), the funds would remain even if the move to defund the reform law succeeded.\n\nBachmann stated that $16 billion of the money gives Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius a \"slush fund ... [to do] whatever she wants with this money.\" She called on the bills supporters to return the money, \"I think this deception that the president and [former House Speaker Nancy] Pelosi and [Senate Majority Leader Harry] Reid put forward with appropriating over $105 billion needs to be given back to the people.\"\n\nWhen asked during the Meet the Press interview if she would take back her previous comments that Obama \"may have anti-American views\" and that his administration had \"embraced something called gangster government\", Bachmann backed her statements, saying \"I do believe that actions that have been taken by this White House—I don't take back my statements on gangster government. I think that there have been actions taken by the government that are corrupt ... I said I have very serious concerns about the president's views, and I think the president's actions in the last two years speak for themselves.\"\n\nIn response to Bachmann's charges Chief Deputy Democratic Whip Rep. Jan Schakowsky, who serves on the House health subcommittee, pointed out that the report Bachmann refers to is an update of a report that came out in October 2010 and that the costs were spelled out in both the bill and the Congressional Budget Office's estimate of its cost, \"Michele Bachmann obviously didn't read the bill, because there was absolutely nothing hidden in that legislation.\" Schakowsky held that the costs were not kept secret, citing the $40 billion for the Children's Health Insurance Program as an example \"There was a robust debate about whether or not that should be included, etc. So this idea of somehow, now at the last minute, there was a secret addition to some kind of funding ... is absolute nonsense.\"\n\nIn a September 2011 Republican presidential debate in Tampa, FL, Bachmann criticized Rick Perry for his support for the humanpapilloma virus (HPV) vaccine and his support for mandating the HPV vaccine for all sixth-grade Texas girls. The American Academy of Pediatrics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, American Academy of Family Physicians, American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices and other medical organizations worldwide are in favor of immunizing girls and boys against HPV. HPV can cause lesions and genital warts, and has been linked to cervical cancer as well as genital and oral cancers in people of any gender. Because the vaccine is effective only if given before the onset of sexual activity and subsequent exposure to the virus, medical groups recommend the three dose vaccine be given to 11- and 12-year-olds. Bachmann, during the debate and in interviews following the event, accused Perry of \"crony capitalism\" (because Perry's former chief of staff was chief lobbyist for a drug company manufacturing the vaccine), and claimed that the HPV vaccine was dangerous and caused mental retardation. She repeatedly referred to an anecdotal account from a mother of a girl who been immunized for HPV. \"She told me that her little daughter took that vaccine, that injection, and she suffered mental retardation thereafter,\" Bachmann said. \"There is no second chance for these little girls if there is any dangerous consequences to their bodies.\" Shortly after Bachmann's statements at the debate, the American Academy of Pediatrics released a statement: \"The American Academy of Pediatrics would like to correct false statements made in the Republican presidential campaign that HPV vaccine is dangerous and can cause mental retardation. There is absolutely no scientific validity to this statement. Since the vaccine has been introduced, more than 35 million doses have been administered, and it has an excellent safety record.\" Fewer than one percent of those receiving the vaccine reported neurological side effects or, in rare cases, severe allergic reactions, none linked to changes in cognitive ability. Bachmann later acknowledged that she was not a doctor or a scientist.\n\nIn June–July 2012, Bachmann and several other Republican legislators sent a series of letters to oversight agencies at five federal departments citing \"serious security concerns\" about what Bachmann has called a \"deep penetration in the halls of our United States government\" by the Muslim Brotherhood. They requested formal investigations into what Bachmann called \"influence operations\" by the Brotherhood.\n\nBachmann also accused Huma Abedin, an aide to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and former Rep. Anthony Weiner's wife, of having family connections to the Muslim Brotherhood.\n\nBachmann's comments have drawn what the \"Washington Post\" calls \"fierce criticism from fellow lawmakers and religious groups.\" In a speech on the Senate floor, 2008 Republican presidential candidate Senator John McCain denounced Bachmann's charges as \"specious and degrading\". He defended Abedin as a \"hard-working and loyal servant of our country and our government\" and stated \"these attacks on Huma have no logic, no basis and no merit. They need to stop now.\" House Speaker John Boehner termed Bachmann's allegations \"dangerous\", and other Republicans have also criticized the remarks.\n\nIn a letter to Bachmann, Rep. Keith Ellison, D-Minn., a Muslim, asked for evidence backing her claims and stated, \"Your response simply rehashes claims that have existed for years on anti-Muslim websites and contains no reliable information that the Muslim Brotherhood has infiltrated the U.S. government\".\n\nBachmann has replied that \"the intention of the letters was to outline the serious national security concerns I had and ask for answers to questions regarding the Muslim Brotherhood and other radical group's access to top Obama administration officials\". In a July 19 interview with radio and TV show host Glenn Beck, Bachmann repeated and expanded her allegations, accusing Ellison of having \"a long record of being associated with the Council on American–Islamic Relations and with the Muslim Brotherhood\". Ellison replied that \"I am not now, nor have I ever been, associated with the Muslim Brotherhood.\"\n\nIn 2013, Bachmann was under investigation by the House Ethics Committee, the Federal Election Commission, the Iowa Senate Ethics Committee, the Urbandale Police Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation because of alleged campaign finance violations in her 2012 campaign for President.\n\nIt is alleged that members of her staff made under-the-table payments, that funds were illegally transferred from her leadership PAC to pay consultants for her presidential campaign and that hidden payments were made to Iowa State Senator Kent Sorenson.\n\nAdditionally, a lawsuit was filed alleging that Bachmann and several former staffers stole and misused an Iowa homeschool group's e-mail distribution list. The trial, \"Heki v. Bachmann\", had been set for May 14, 2014, but the case was settled out of court on June 28, 2013.\n\nOn July 26, 2013, the House Ethics Committee announced they were conducting a full investigation of Bachmann, saying that they had received a referral from the Office of Congressional Ethics.\n\nOn May 29, 2013, Bachmann announced that she would not seek re-election to her Congressional seat in 2014. Bachmann stated in an interview with Fox News in June 2013 that she was \"not going silent,\" and would remain involved in politics. She did not rule out a future run for office, or even for the White House. She also said that probes into her campaign finance and the narrow margin of victory for her election were not a part of her decision against seeking re-election. With her retirement from Congress, the ethics investigations against her were dropped.\nBachmann indicated, during a December 2017 New Year's weekend interview with televangelist Jim Bakker, that she is considering running for the U.S. Senate seat vacated by Al Franken, but that she is waiting on counsel from God before making up her mind.\n\n\nAccording to an article in the \"Stillwater Gazette\", a local newspaper in Minnesota, Bachmann supports the teaching of creationism alongside evolution in public school science classes. During a 2003 interview on the KKMS Christian radio program \"Talk The Walk\", Bachmann said that evolution is a theory that has never been proven one way or the other. She co-authored a bill (that received no additional endorsement among her fellow legislators) that would require public schools to include alternative explanations for the origin of life as part of the state's public school science curricula.\nIn October 2006, Bachmann told a debate audience in St. Cloud, Minnesota \"there is a controversy among scientists about whether evolution is a fact or not ... There are hundreds and hundreds of scientists, many of them holding Nobel Prizes, who believe in intelligent design.\" However, at least one news report, presenting a \"sampling of Bachmann's ... ludicrous or plain old false claims\", stated that this was untrue, and that \"when the science isn't on [Bachmann's] side, she simply improvises.\"\n\nBachmann has praised the Christian youth ministry You Can Run But You Cannot Hide International (YCRBYCH), hailing \"the group's work of sharing the gospel in public schools\". She appeared as a keynote speaker at their fundraisers in 2006 and 2009. Following a 2011 controversial invocation for the Minnesota House, Bradlee Dean (the founder of YCRBYCH), declared that criticisms of him and his ministry were also \"intended to harm and destroy the presidential campaign of Congresswoman Michele Bachmann ... [who] previously praised and prayed for the work of my ministry\".\n\nBachmann has a history of opposing anti-bullying legislation. In 2006, she told the Minnesota Legislature that passing an anti-bullying bill would be a waste of time. \"I think for all of us, our experience in public schools is there have always been bullies,\" Bachmann said. \"Always have been, always will be. I just don't know how we're ever going to get to the point of zero tolerance ... What does it mean? ... Will we be expecting boys to be girls?\"\n\nIn the Minnesota Senate, Bachmann opposed minimum wage increases. In an interview in late June 2011, Bachmann did not back away from her earlier proposal to eliminate the federal minimum wage, a change she said would \"virtually wipe out unemployment.\"\n\nIn a 2001 flyer, Bachmann and Michael J. Chapman wrote that federal policies manage a centralized, state-controlled economy in the United States. She wrote that education laws passed by Congress in 2001, including \"School To Work\" and \"Goals 2000\", created a new national school curriculum that embraced \"a socialist, globalist worldview; loyalty to all government and not America.\" In 2003, Bachmann said that the \"Tax Free Zones\" economic initiatives of Republican Governor Tim Pawlenty were based on the Marxist principle of \"from each according to his abilities, to each according to his needs.\" She also said that the administration was attempting to govern and run centrally planned economies through an organization called the Minnesota Economic Leadership Team (MELT), an advisory board on economic and workforce policy chaired by Pawlenty.\nPrior to her election to the state senate, and again in 2005, Bachmann signed a \"no new taxes\" pledge sponsored by the Taxpayers League of Minnesota. As a state senator, Bachmann introduced two bills that would have severely limited state taxation. In 2003, she proposed amending the Minnesota state constitution to adopt the \"Taxpayers' Bill of Rights\" (TABOR).\n\nIn 2005, Bachmann opposed Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty's proposal for a state surcharge of 75 cents per pack on the wholesale cost of cigarettes. Bachmann said that she opposed the state surcharge \"100 percent—it's a tax increase.\" She later was criticized by the Taxpayers' League for reversing her position and voting in favor of the cigarette surcharge.\n\nShe has promised to bring the price of gasoline down to $2 per gallon, without specifying a plan for how to accomplish this.\n\nBachmann supports increased domestic drilling of oil and natural gas, as well as pursuing renewable sources of energy such as wind and solar. She is a strong proponent of nuclear power.\n\nBachmann has stated a strong opposition toward the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), pledging at an August 2011 campaign rally, \"... I guarantee you the EPA will have doors locked and lights turned off and they will only be about conservation.\" In 2007 and 2010, Bachmann was actively soliciting for funds from the EPA on behalf of constituents in her congressional district.\n\nBachmann has called for phasing out Social Security and Medicare:\n\nBachmann says in dealing with Iran, diplomacy \"is our option\", but that other options, including a nuclear strike, shouldn't be taken off the table.\n\nShe has also said that she is \"a long time supporter of Israel\".\n\nIn a discussion about the G-20 summit in Toronto, during an interview with conservative radio host Scott Hennen, Bachmann stated that she does not want America to be part of the international global economy.\n\nOn economists who have influenced her views, Bachmann told \"The Wall Street Journal\",\n\nBachmann believes that strengthened enforcement of immigration laws is required for the growth of the American job market. She supports amending the Immigration and Nationality Act to allow only the immediate family of legal immigrants (not extended family members) priority consideration in the immigration process. She voted against the DREAM Act. She has also stated that the current law does not need modification but proper enforcement.\n\nBachmann said: \"... the immigration system in the United States worked very, very well up until the mid-1960s when liberal members of Congress changed the immigration laws.\"\n\nBachmann has expressed support for immigration of highly skilled professionals such as chemists and engineers.\n\nShe is against the 2013 immigration reform bill, indicating that passing it would mean the end of the Republican Party. On WorldNetDaily she stated \"This is President Obama's number one political agenda because he knows we will never again have a Republican president ever if amnesty goes into effect.\"\n\nBachmann supports both a federal and state constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage and any legal equivalents.\n\nIn August 2006, the Minneapolis \"Star Tribune\" reported that, in March 2006, Bachmann was on a Minneapolis radio show advocating for a state constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage. A caller asked her to explain how he, a heterosexual, would be harmed if his gay neighbors were allowed to marry. Bachmann replied by saying: \"Public schools would have to teach that homosexuality and same-sex marriage are normal, natural and that maybe children should try them.\" The \"Star Tribune\" also reported that Bachmann has publicly referred to homosexuality as \"sexual dysfunction\", \"sexual identity disorders\", and \"personal enslavement\" that leads to \"sexual anarchy\".\n\nIn a July 2014 radio interview, Bachmann claimed that gay rights activists want to abolish age of consent laws in the United States so that adults can \"prey on little children sexually.\"\n\nBachmann has identified herself as pro-life and has been endorsed in her runs for Congress by the Susan B. Anthony List and Minnesota Citizens Concerned for Life. At a debate among presidential candidates in New Hampshire, when asked if abortion should be allowed in cases of rape or incest, Bachmann responded that she is \"100 percent pro-life\". In the state senate, Bachmann introduced a bill proposing a constitutional amendment restricting state funds for abortion. The bill died in committee.\n\nAccording to an article in the \"Washington Post\", in 2008 Bachmann may have taken advantage of a federal program for a home loan, then called for dismantling the program, though the article notes that the public and other members of Congress have taken advantage of such loans despite seeing reasons to criticize them. When asked about it, she said: \"This is the problem. It is almost impossible to buy a home in this country today without the federal government being involved\".\n\nBachmann was never a part of the birther movement but said that President Obama could resolve the dispute by producing his long-form birth certificate. In April 2011, after Obama released the certificate, Bachmann was asked about the issue on \"Good Morning America\" by George Stephanopoulos. She said that its release \"should settle the matter\", that \"I take the President at his word\", and that \"We have bigger fish to fry\".\n\nBachmann won her Congressional seat in the 2006 election with 50 percent of the vote, as she defeated Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party (DFL) candidate Patty Wetterling and the Independence Party's John Binkowski.\n\nThe U.S. 6th District's congressman since 2001, Mark Kennedy, announced in late 2005 that he would be running for the U.S. Senate seat being vacated by Mark Dayton of the DFL. Bachmann states \"God then called me to run\" for the U.S. House seat, and that she and her husband fasted for three days to be more sure.\n\nAccording to Bloomberg.com news, evangelical conservative leader James Dobson put the resources of his organization behind her 2006 campaign. Dobson's Focus on the Family planned to distribute 250,000 voter guides in Minnesota churches to reach social conservatives, according to Tom Prichard, president of the Minnesota Family Council, a local affiliate of Dobson's group. In addition to Minnesota, Dobson's group also organized turnout drives in Pennsylvania, Maryland, Michigan, Ohio, New Jersey and Montana.\n\nDuring a debate televised by WCCO-TV on October 28, 2006, news reporter Pat Kessler quoted a story that appeared in the Minneapolis \"Star Tribune\" and asked Bachmann whether it was true that the church she belonged to taught that the Pope is the Anti-Christ. Bachmann stated that her church \"does not believe that the Pope is the Anti-Christ, that's absolutely false ... I'm very grateful that my pastor has come out and been very clear on this matter, and I think it's patently absurd and it's a false statement.\"\n\nBachmann received support from a fundraising visit in early July 2006 from Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert. On July 21, 2006, Karl Rove visited Minnesota to raise funds for her election. In August, President George W. Bush was the keynote speaker at her congressional fundraiser, which raised about $500,000. Bachmann also received fundraising support from Vice President Dick Cheney. The National Republican Congressional Committee put nearly $3 million into the race, for electronic and direct-mail ads against DFLer Wetterling. The amount was significantly more than the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee spent on behalf of Wetterling. On November 7, 2006, Bachmann defeated opponents Patty Wetterling and John Binkowski, taking 50 percent of the vote to Wetterling's 42 percent and Binkowski's eight percent.\n\nIn 2008, Bachmann won re-election over her DFL and Independence Party endorsed opponent Elwyn Tinklenberg. With all precincts reported, Bachmann won, 46.41% to 43.43%. Because Tinklenberg was running as a DFLer in the Democratic primary this allowed candidate Bob Anderson to run in the Independence Party primary unopposed despite not having the Independence endorsement. Anderson received 10% of the vote.\n\nBachmann was challenged in 2010 by DFL nominee Tarryl Clark and Independence Party candidate Bob Anderson. With more than $8.5 million, Bachmann spent more than any other House of Representative candidate, although her opponent, Tarryl Clark, was able to raise $4 million, one of the largest fundraising efforts in the nation for a U.S. House challenger. On November 2, 2010, Bachmann defeated Tarryl Clark by 52% to 40% of the vote.\n\nIn early 2011, there was much speculation that Bachmann would run for president in 2012. Bachmann participated in the second Republican presidential debate in New Hampshire on June 13, 2011; during the debate she announced she had filed paperwork with the Federal Election Commission (FEC) earlier that day to become a candidate for the GOP nomination. Bachmann formally announced her candidacy for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination on June 27, 2011, during an appearance in Waterloo, Iowa.\n\nAlthough she won the Ames Straw Poll hosted by the Iowa GOP on August 13, 2011, becoming the first woman ever to win the poll, when the actual caucuses were held on January 3, 2012, she finished sixth with 4.98% of the vote. Bachmann announced on January 4 that she would be cancelling her scheduled campaign trips to South Carolina, as she was suspending her presidential campaign.\n\nOn January 25, 2012, Bachmann announced that she would run for reelection for her seat in Congress.\n\nAccording to Politico.com, as of July 2012, Bachmann has \"raised close to $15 million\" for the 2012 election, a figure it called \"astounding ... more than some Senate candidates will collect this year.\" From July to the end of September, Bachmann raised $4.5 million. This amount put her ahead of all other members of congress (including Allen West who was in second place with $4 million) for the third quarter. Bachmann said that she was \"humbled by the enormous outpouring of grassroots support for my campaign focused on keeping America the most secure and prosperous nation in the world.\"\n\nDespite a more favorable district Bachmann only narrowly won re-election, receiving just 4,298 more votes than her DFL challenger Jim Graves.\n\nIn November 2011 Bachmann published her autobiography, \"Core of Conviction\", in which she outlines the events and people who have shaped her values and beliefs including her parents' divorce when she was in the ninth grade. She describes the financial struggles her mother suffered as a single parent in trying to provide for her family and the work ethic she developed as a result of it. She writes of that time, \"I took every baby sitting job I could get, because by ninth grade, I was growing conscious of my appearance. In those days, girls had to wear dresses to public school, and if I wanted pretty dresses, I had to buy them, because mom couldn't afford them for me; she couldn't afford lunch money.\"\n\nBachmann writes about her political conversion as a young adult when Jimmy Carter, whom she voted for, let her down.\n\"It was in the perilous fires of the Carter administration that my ideology was forged,\" she wrote. \"In the seventies, Carter taught me what I was against, and then in the eighties, Reagan taught me what I was for.\" She also details why she went to work for the Internal Revenue Service. She says it was because she wanted to change the tax code, \"from the inside out.\" She also commented on her role as a Tea Party leader. \"I once said that the Tea Party represents 90 percent of Americans. I now realize that I misspoke,\" she admitted. \"I should have said 100 percent, because I believe that nearly all Americans retain faith in the ordered liberty that the Constitution offers.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56104562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56104562", "title": "Nimrod Mbai", "text": "Nimrod Mbai\n\nNimrod Mbithuka Mbai (born?) is a Kenyan politician and the current Member of Parliament for Kitui East Constituency. He was elected on a Jubilee Party ticket in the August 8th elections. He won after garnering a total of 14, 256 votes against 10, 899 votes garnered by NARC's Militonic Mwendwa Kitute. The then incumbent Member of Parliament, Major (Rtd) Mutua Muluvi was fourth with 5, 436 votes. He is an ex-police officer and served as security aide to the late Francis Nyenze and later to the current Machakos County Governor Alfred Mutua. Governor Mutua appointed him to his government in 2013 after Mbai resigned from his police service. Mbai caused controversy for his rape remarks against Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu because of the governor's support for poll boycott called by former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. He later apologised following public outcry and pressure from women's rights group FIDA Kenya \n"}
{"id": "50225094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50225094", "title": "Nita Ambani", "text": "Nita Ambani\n\nNita Dalal Mukesh Ambani (born 1 November 1963) is the chairperson and founder of the Reliance Foundation and a non-executive director of Reliance Industries. With a family fortune estimated in excess of $40 billion, she is among the richest in India. She is married to Reliance Industries chairman and managing director Mukesh Ambani. She is also an art collector and owner of the Mumbai Indians cricket team. Nita is the founder and chairperson of Dhirubhai Ambani International School, Mumbai.\n\nShe was listed in 2016 in 'the fifty high and mighty Indians' list by \"India Today\". and in 'the most influential women business leaders in Asia' list by \"Forbes\". She was also the first Indian woman to become a member of the International Olympic Committee (IOC).\n\nNita Ambani (née Dalal) was born on November 1, 1963 in a middle-class Gujarati family in Mumbai to Ravindrabhai Dalal and Purnima Dalal. She completed her bachelor's degree in Commerce from Narsee Monjee College of Commerce and Economics. She studied Bharata Natyam, and performed frequently.\n\nAmbani started out as the founder and chairperson of Reliance Foundation, the CSR arm of Reliance Industries. She is also the owner of Mumbai Indians. and in 2014 she was elected to the board of Reliance Industries.\n\nIn 1997, Nita Ambani was involved in the project of building a company township for the employees of Reliance’s mega-refinery at Jamnagar. The project involved setting up a well-planned, tree-lined and an environment friendly colony that would house more than 17000 residents. Today, the Jamnagar complex has one of the largest orchards with nearly 100,000 mango trees that is also home to a variety of birds.\n\nReliance Foundation is an Indian philanthropic initiative founded in 2010 by Nita Ambani. Reliance Industries is a patron of the organization.\n\nAmbani is also the co-owner of Indian Premier League (IPL) team, Mumbai Indians. She led the ‘Education for All’ (EFA) initiative as part of Mumbai Indians' way of giving back to society. EFA has reached over 70,000 underprivileged children and created awareness for education using various media and digital platforms.\n\nMrs Ambani is the Founder & Chairperson of the Dhirubhai Ambani International School in Mumbai. DAIS has been ranked as one of India’s best schools by some publications.\n\nOn 3 June 2016, Ambani was among eight candidates nominated for membership in the International Olympic Committee (IOC) by the Swiss-based panel. The election of these new members was held during the 129th IOC Session in the first week of August 2016. Ambani was elected as a member of the IOC on 4 August 2016, its first Indian woman member.\n\nNita is the daughter of Ravindrabhai Dalal and Purnima Dalal. She has a sister, Mamta Dalal, who works as a school teacher. Ambani grew up in a middle-class environment in suburban Mumbai. She is a trained Bharatnatyam dancer. She met Mukesh Ambani when she was a school teacher and got married to him in 1985. After marriage, she worked as a teacher for a few years.\n\nThey have two sons and a daughter. Akash and Isha Ambani are the elder children and Anant Ambani is younger. Akash Ambani, who graduated in economics from Brown University, is now chief of strategy at Reliance Jio Infocomm. Isha Ambani, a graduate in psychology from Yale University, is now a director at Reliance Jio Infocomm and Reliance Retail.\n\nFor her initiatives on grassroot sports, Ambani received the 'Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Award 2017' from the President of India. She received the award on behalf of Reliance Foundation as its chairperson.\n\nShe is the recipient of the award for Best Corporate Supporter of Indian Sports, given by the Times of India.\n\n"}
{"id": "8018717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8018717", "title": "Noble Consort Ying", "text": "Noble Consort Ying\n\nNoble Consort Ying (7 March 1731 – 14 March 1800), of the Mongol Bordered Red Banner Barin clan, was a consort of the Qianlong Emperor.\n\nNoble Consort Ying's personal name was not recorded in history.\n\n\nThe future Noble Consort Ying was born on the 29th day of the first lunar month in the ninth year of the reign of the Yongzheng Emperor, which translates to 7 March 1731 in the Gregorian calendar.\n\nIt is not known when Lady Barin entered the Forbidden City and was granted the title \"Noble Lady\" by the Qianlong Emperor. In January or February 1748, she was demoted to \"First Attendant Na\". In May or June 1748, she was restored as \"Noble Lady Na\". She was elevated on 30 July 1751 to \"Concubine Ying\", and on 4 February 1760 to \"Consort Ying\".\n\nOn 9 February 1796, the Qianlong Emperor abdicated in favour of his 15th son Yongyan, who was enthroned as the Jiaqing Emperor. However, the Qianlong Emperor remained in power as a Retired Emperor. In November or December 1798, the Qianlong Emperor issued an imperial decree promoting Lady Barin to \"Noble Consort Ying\". The Jiaqing Emperor honoured Lady Barin as \"Dowager Noble Consort Ying\" and let her and Dowager Noble Consort Wan live in Shoukang Palace (壽康宮).\n\nIn 1800, during Lady Barin's 70th birthday, Yonglin, the Jiaqing Emperor's only full brother who was raised by Lady Barin, sent her birthday gifts. Lady Barin had no children of her own and had been leading a rather lonely life in the palace, so she was very happy to see Yonglin. However, the Jiaqing Emperor was furious when he found out, and he scolded his brother for not seeking his permission first. Lady Barin's birthday celebrations were thus rendered meaningless. She died on 14 March 1800. In 1801, she was interred in the Yu Mausoleum of the Eastern Qing tombs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "506450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=506450", "title": "Pai Hsien-yung", "text": "Pai Hsien-yung\n\nKenneth Hsien-yung Pai (), born July 11, 1937) is a Taiwanese writer who has been described as a \"melancholy pioneer.\" He was born in Guilin, Guangxi, China at the cusp of both the Second Sino-Japanese War and subsequent Chinese Civil War. Pai's father was the famous Kuomintang (KMT) general Bai Chongxi (Pai Chung-hsi), whom he later described as a \"stern, Confucian father\" with \"some soft spots in his heart.\" Pai was diagnosed with tuberculosis at the age of seven, during which time he would have to live in a separate house from his siblings (of which he would have a total of nine). He lived with his family in Chongqing, Shanghai, and Nanjing before moving to the British-controlled Hong Kong in 1948 as CPC forces turned the tide of the Chinese Civil War. In 1952, Pai and his family resettled in Taiwan, where the KMT had relocated the Republic of China after defeat by the Communists in 1949.\n\nPai studied in La Salle College, a Hong Kong Catholic boys' high school, until he left for Taiwan with his family. In 1956, Pai enrolled at National Cheng Kung University as a hydraulic engineering major, because he wanted to participate in the Three Gorges Dam Project. The following year, he passed the entrance examination for the foreign literature department of National Taiwan University and transferred there to study English literature. In September 1958, after completing his first year of study, he published his first short story \"Madame Ching\" in the magazine \"Literature\". Two years later, he collaborated with several NTU classmates—e.g., Chen Ruoxi, Wang Wenxing, Ouyang Tzu—to launch \"Modern Literature\" (Xiandai wenxue), in which many of his early works were published. He was also known to frequent the Cafe Astoria in Taipei.\n\nPai went abroad in 1963 to study literary theory and creative writing at the University of Iowa in the Iowa Writers' Workshop. That same year, Pai's mother, the parent with whom Pai had the closest relationship, died, and it was this death to which Pai attributes the melancholy that pervades his work. After earning his M.A. from Iowa, he became a professor of Chinese literature at the University of California, Santa Barbara, and has resided in Santa Barbara ever since. Pai retired from UCSB in 1994. Pai's cousin is Hong Kong radio personality Pamela Peck.\n\nPai's most famous work of fiction, \"Taipei People\" (臺北人, \"Táiběirén\", 1971), is a seminal work of Chinese modernism that mixes both literary Chinese and experimental modernist techniques. In terms of his choice of themes, Pai's work is also far ahead of its time. His novel, \"Crystal Boys\" (孽子, \"Nièzǐ\", 1983), tells the story of a group of homosexual youths living in 1960s Taipei, largely from the viewpoint of a gay youth who is thrown out of his father's home. The novel's comparison of the dark corners of Taipei's New Park, the characters' main cruising area, with the cloistered society of Taiwan of that period proved quite unacceptable to Taipei's then KMT-dominated establishment, though Pai has generally remained a loyal KMT supporter.\n\nAmong other Taiwanese writers, Pai is appreciated for sophisticated narratives that introduce controversial and groundbreaking perspectives to Chinese literature. His major works, discussed above, have been widely influential.\n\nFurther, Pai's writings while in the US in the early 1960s have greatly contributed to an understanding of the Chinese experience in postwar America. \"Death in Chicago\" (1964) is a semi-autobiographical account of a young Chinese man who, on the eve of his graduation from the English Literature department of the University of Chicago, discovers that his mother has died back home. \"Pleasantville\" (1964) explores the depressed state of a Chinese mother in the upper-class New York suburbs who feels alienated by the Americanization of her Chinese husband and daughter. Both \"Death in Chicago\" and \"Pleasantville\" subtly criticize America as a superficial and materialistic culture that can cause immigrant Chinese to feel lonely and isolated.\n\nIn recent years, Pai has gained some acclaim in Mainland Chinese literary circles. He has held various lectures at Beijing Normal University, among others. In the \"Beijing University Selection of Modern Chinese Literature: 1949–1999\" published in 2002, three of Pai's works are included under the time period 1958–1978. These stories reflect the decadence of Shanghai high society in the Republican era. This subject matter constitutes only a small segment of Pai's diverse work, yet it fits particularly well with orthodox renditions of pre-1949 history taught on the Mainland.\n\nIn April 2000, a series of five books representing Pai's lifework was published by Huacheng Publishing House in Guangzhou. This series is widely available in Mainland bookstores. It includes short stories, essays, diary entries, and the novel \"Niezi\". A lengthy preface in Volume 1 was penned by Ou Yangzi, a fellow member of the group that founded the journal \"Xiandai Wenxue\" in Taiwan in the 1950s.\n\nPai was born Muslim, attended missionary Catholic schools and embraced Buddhist meditation practices in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "41022129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41022129", "title": "Patten (band)", "text": "Patten (band)\n\npatten is a London-based project renowned for hi-tech immersive AV shows and multi-platform approach, tracing a boundary-irreverent path through outlets ranging from design as 555-5555, to installation, film, software programming, music, live performance, and publishing. patten started performing at underground venues and releasing music on limited edition CDRs and minidiscs in 2006. Over the years there have been numerous live line ups and stylistic approaches, including computer music, all-acoustic ensemble compositions, immersive audiovisual shows, DJ sets, and full bass, drums, and guitar band formations. The most recent recordings and live shows reach the outer edges of techno, hip hop, ambient, club music, grime, pop and industrial.\n\nThe first patten performances took place across London at alternative music venues like East London rock club The Spitz, Hackney Road's 291 Gallery and South London's Utrophia project space. Recordings were circulated among friends and at shows on minidisc and home-burnt CDR in limited editions.\n\nIn 2011, after a series of increasingly intense live performances ranging from the Tate Modern Turbine Hall to Corsica Studios, patten released the album GLAQJO XAACSSO on London-based label No Pain In Pop. GLAQJO XAACSSO featured 12 tracks of lo-fi shoegaze-inflected electronic music, with heavily processed but still recognizable guitar and vocals featuring widely. The record was put together through writing in liminal states between waking and sleeping, then test-driving material live over the course of a number of months, and finessing in the studio to arrive at final versions. On release, the album was met with widespread acclaim from a broad spectrum of music fans from techno across to the experimental and indie. Interviews and press images from this period extended the exploration into reflecting on the way artists are presented and present themselves to a public of strangers, with obscured faces and non-standard interview approaches. The project’s tradition in creative use of media spaces has continued through until the present, in materials like a playlist of silent tracks available on Spotify, the submission and publishing of identical answers to two different interviews, and a Q&A for Dazed answered entirely in Wikipedia links.\nAfter the success of GLAQJO XAACSSO, patten began to rapidly release music by other underground artists through their Kaleidoscope imprint, drawing wider attention to the work of others. The 2012-13 Limited Dubs cassette and digital series included Sculpture’s ‘Slime Code’, the I’ve Been You Twice’ EP, Karen Gwyer’s debut release, the double album ‘Cracked Lacquer/Vanadium’ by Yearning Kru and ‘Guardian Petted’ by California musician Jocelyn Noir’s ALAK. These were met with various accolades from BBC Radio 1 to Wire Magazine, with many of the artists going on to sign with key independent labels such as Planet Mu, Software and No Pain In Pop. 2015 saw a cassette (Chrome Series) from visual artist Benedict Drew in and a split vinyl release (50/50) including Aldous RH (ex-Egyptian Hip Hop) and Tel Aviv's Vanilla Hammer. Recent releases on the imprint’s 2017 Aether Editions digital-first series have been from The Newcomer, Actual Magic (a moniker of patten), and Japanese producer and DJ, Sapphire Slows.\n\nIn November 2013 the signing of patten to Warp Records was announced, with the EOLIAN INSTATE EP released soon after in a limited edition picture disc, echoing the project’s beginnings and experimentation with formats. Weeks later patten performed a live audiovisual set in front of thousands at Tate Britain as part of the Warp x Tate event in December 2013.\nThe first LP for Warp, ESTOILE NAIANT was released in February 2014, supported by an extensive live audiovisual tour across Europe, North America and Japan.\n\nIt was during this period that patten began to release free RE-EDITS EPs, sampling, layering and restructuring fragments of existing music into new textural compositions. Tracks featured were from across musical worlds, fusing Sade, Drexciya, Siouxie and The Banshees, Pixies, Burial and Joy Division, The tracks were underpinned by dancefloor rhythms and the 2014 series were specifically created so as to produce an ‘endless generative mix’ when played on shuffle. Later RE-EDITS series eschewed this method for a more freeform approach, with ‘vol2’ remixing tracks by Death Grips, Rihanna, Tim Hecker, Julianna Barwick and Cypress Hill.\n\nIn 2014, patten threw a series of club nights with live electronic music and DJs at Dalston’s Power Lunches under the name 555-5555. The events were held in the basement venue with the group’s signature heavy smoke machine and a minimal single video projection as lighting. The lineups featured sets from artists such as Logos, Karen Gwyer, Slackk, SFV Acid, Darkstar, Visionist, Fotomachine and Max Tundra. Across late 2015 and early 2016, numerous design works attributed to 555-5555 with it expanding in 2017 into a creative agency including members of patten, and visual collaborator Jane Easlight. 555-5555 work unrestricted across forms, creating anything from graphic design for Disney’s Tron run/R soundtrack, to 555-5555 branded apparel, events, software, an NTS radio show, ongoing art direction for Dan Snaith (Caribou)’s Daphni and Jiaolong label, and pointed online videos encouraging their fans to engage in the political process.\n\nIn collaboration with Hisham Akira Bharoocha,\npatten contributed to Doug Aitken's Station to Station project, recording 'June 30th', an EP of new music created from found sound and improvised percussion made in one day at the Barbican Centre.\n\nIn the same year, patten created several remixes for artists like Giorgio Moroder and Björk. Their remix of her song Stonemilker was released as a single-sided 12\" clear vinyl single.\n\nOn September 16, 2016, their third album Ψ (Psi), was released with the vocals of a member known as A featured heavily across the record. A first appeared publicly in Jane Eastlight’s 2014 ‘Winter Strobing’ video and was later seen performing in patten at the Warp25 concert in Poland (alongside Battles, Autechre, LFO and others) and later Baleapop in France, Fields Moscow and Electrowerkz London for a McQ launch event. A number of highly distinctive videos were released for album tracks Sonne (Matilda Finn), Epsilon (Werkflow), Dialler (555-5555), along with animation and video for each track made by 555-5555 for their immersive AV show which had at this point expanded to include a full custom video system, lasers, LEDs, smoke machines, live electronic drums and digitally processed vocals. In December 2016, patten released the first in a two part series of live session videos directed by Greg Barnes capturing their live AV show in a cinematic style echoing the sci-fi Science fiction feel of their performances.\n\nIn May 2017, following Psi by 6 months patten released Requiem, a four track digital-only EP. Music videos for each of the tracks were made available on release day via YouTube. Requiem saw a further distillation of their sound, with dry sonics and heavily treated hip-hop-inflected vocals coming to the fore. The EP preceded a headline show at London’s ICA, where the group programmed screenings and installations and a 555-5555 pop up store alongside their AV performance. Screenings of art films at the event included Turner Prize winner Mark Leckey, Muntean/Rosenblum, and others. In late summer, an autumn AV tour across the UK, Europe, and Mexico was announced.\n\nIn September, they announced their contribution to work on beta testing spectral processing software created by U.S.-based software developers Unfiltered Audio for Plugin Alliance. patten produced a number of presets bundled with the software download alongside electronic composers such as Richard Devine, and Uwe Zahn.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13402723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13402723", "title": "Pavel Juráček", "text": "Pavel Juráček\n\nPavel Juráček (; 2 August 1935, Příbram, Czechoslovakia – 20 May 1989, Prague) was a Czech screenwriter and film director who studied at FAMU. Although not as famous as Miloš Forman or Jiří Menzel, he was an exponent of the Czech New Wave as well. He worked at Prague Barrandov Studios; however after his satirical movie \"Case for a Rookie Hangman\" (1970) was shelved, his movie career came to an end.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "375310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375310", "title": "Penobscot", "text": "Penobscot\n\nThe Penobscot (\"Panawahpskek\") are an indigenous peoples in North America with members who reside in the United States and Canada. They are organized as a federally recognized tribe in Maine and as a First Nations band government in the Atlantic provinces and Quebec. \n\nThe \"Penobscot Nation\", formerly known as the \"Penobscot Tribe of Maine,\" is the federally recognized tribe of Penobscot in the United States. They are part of the Wabanaki Confederacy, along with the Abenaki, Passamaquoddy, Maliseet, and Mi'kmaq nations, all of whom historically spoke Algonquian languages. Their main settlement is now the Penobscot Indian Island Reservation, located within the state of Maine along the Penobscot River.\n\nThe word \"Penobscot\" originates from a mispronunciation of their name for themselves: \"Penawapskewi.\" The word means \"rocky part\" or \"descending ledges,\" and originally referred to their territory on the portion of the Penobscot River between present-day Old Town and Bangor. \n\nThe Penobscot Nation is headquartered in Penobscot Indian Island Reservation, Maine. The tribal chief is Kirk Francis. The vice-chief is Bill Thompson.\n\nLittle is known about the Penobscot before their contact with European colonizers. Indigenous peoples are thought to have inhabited Maine and surrounding areas for at least 11,000 years. They had a hunting-gathering society, with the men hunting beaver, otters, moose, bears, caribou, fish, seafood (clams, mussels, fish), birds, and possibly marine mammals such as seals. The women gathered and processed bird eggs, berries, nuts, and roots, all of which were found locally. \n\nThe people practiced some agriculture but not to the same extent as that of indigenous peoples in southern New England, where the climate was more temperate. Food was potentially scarce only toward the end of the winter, in February and March. For the rest of the year, the Penobscot and other Wabanaki likely had little difficulty surviving because the land and ocean waters offered much bounty, and the number of people was sustainable. The bands moved seasonally, following the patterns of game and fish.\n\nDuring the 15th century the Penobscot had contact with Europeans through the fur trade. It was lucrative and the Penobscot were willing to trade pelts for European goods such as metal axes, guns, and copper or iron cookware. Hunting for fur pelts reduced the game, however, and the European trade introduced alcohol to Penobscot communities for the first time. It has been argued that the people are genetically vulnerable to alcoholism, which Europeans frequently tried to exploit in dealings and trade. Penobscot people and other nations made pine beer, which had vitamin C; in addition to being an alcoholic beverage, it had the benefit of allaying the onset of scurvy. \n\nWhen Europeans arrived, they brought alcohol in quantity. Europeans may have slowly developed enzymes, metabolic processes, and social mechanisms for dealing with a normalized high intake of alcohol, but Penobscot people, though familiar with alcohol, had never had access to the gross quantity of alcohol that Europeans offered. \n\nThe Europeans carried endemic infectious diseases of Eurasia that were new to the Native Americans, and the Penobscot had no acquired immunity. Their fatality rates from the introduction of measles, smallpox and other infectious diseases was high. The population also declined due to fighting between the Wabanaki Federation and the powerful Mohawk people of the Iroquois League, which struggled to control the fur trade. This catastrophic population depletion may have contributed to Christian conversion (among other factors); the people could see that the European priests did not suffer from the pandemics. The latter said that the Penobscot had died because they did not believe in Jesus Christ.\n\nAt the beginning of the 17th century, Europeans began to live year-round in Wabanaki territory. At this time, there were probably about 10,000 Penobscot (a number which fell to below 500 by the early 19th century). As contact became more permanent, after about 1675, conflicts arose through differences in cultures, conceptions of property, and competition for resources. Along the Atlantic Coast in present-day Canada, most settlers were French; in New England they were generally English speaking. \n\nThe Penobscot sided with the French during the French and Indian War in the mid-18th century (the North American front of the Seven Years' War) after the English refusal to respect the Penobscots' intended neutrality. With the Spencer Phips proclamation of 1755, the British colonies put a bounty on the scalps of all Penobscot. With a smaller population and greater acceptance of intermarriage, the French posed a lesser threat to the Penobscots' land and way of life.\n\nAfter the English defeated French colonists in the Battle of Quebec in 1759, the Penobscot were left in a weakened position. During the American Revolution, the Penobscot sided with the Patriots and played an important role in defending against British offensives from Canada. But, the new American government did not seem to recognize their contributions. Anglo-American settlers continued to encroach on Penobscot lands. \n\nIn the following centuries, the Penobscot attempted to make treaties in order to hold on to some form of land, but, because they had no power of enforcement in Massachusetts or Maine, Americans kept encroaching on their lands. From about 1800 onward, the Penobscot lived on reservations, specifically, Indian Island, which is an island in the Penobscot River near Old Town, Maine. The Maine state government appointed a Tribal Agent to oversee the tribe. The government believed that they were helping the Penobscot, as stated in 1824 by the highest court in Maine that \"...imbecility on their parts, and the dictates of humanity on ours, have necessarily prescribed to them their subjection to our paternal control.\" This sentiment of \"imbecility\" set up a power dynamic in which the government treated the Penobscot as wards of the state and decided how their affairs would be managed. The government treated as charitable payments those Penobscot funds derived from land treaties and trusts, which the state had control over and used as it saw fit.\n\nIn 1790, the young United States government enacted the Nonintercourse Act, which stated that the transfer of reservation lands to non-tribal members had to be approved by the United States Congress. Between the years of 1794 and 1833, the Penobscot and Passamaquoddy tribes ceded the majority of their lands to Massachusetts (then to Maine after it became a state in 1820) through treaties that were never ratified by the US Senate and that were illegal under the constitution, as only the federal government had the power to make such treaties. They were left only the Penobscot Indian Island Reservation. \n\nIn the 1970s, at a time of increasing assertions of sovereignty by Native Americans, the Penobscot Nation sued the state of Maine for land claims, calling for some sort of compensation in the form of land, money, and autonomy for the state's violation of the Nonintercourse Act in the 19th century. The disputed land accounted for 60% of all of the land in Maine, and 35,000 people (the vast majority of whom were not tribal members) lived in the disputed territory. \n\nThe Penobscot and the state reached a settlement, Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act (MICSA), in 1980, resulting in an $81.5-million-dollar settlement that the Penobscot could use to acquire more tribal land. The terms of the settlement provided for such acquisition, after which the federal government would hold some of this land in trust for the tribe, as is done for reservation land. The tribe could also purchase other lands in the regular manner. The act established the Maine Indian Tribal-State Commission, whose function was to oversee the effectiveness of the Act and to intervene in certain areas such as fishing rights, etc. in order to settle disputes between the state and the Penobscot or Passamaquoddy.\n\nBecause it is a federally recognized sovereign nation with direct relations with the federal government, the Penobscot have disagreed with state assertions that it has the power to regulate hunting and fishing by tribal members. The Nation filed suit against the state in August 2012, contending in \"Penobscot Nation v. State of Maine,\" that the 1980 MICSA settlement gave the Nation jurisdiction and regulatory authority over hunting and fishing in the “Main Stem” of the Penobscot River as well as on its reservation. \n\nAt the request of the Nation, the US Department of Justice has joined the suit on behalf of the tribe. In addition, in an unprecedented step, five Native American congressional representatives from other jurisdictions filed an \"amici curiae\" brief in support of the Penobscot in this case. In addition to its reservation, the Nation owns islands in the river extending upriver; it also acquired hundreds of thousands of acres of land elsewhere in the state, as a result of the 1980 settlement of its land claim. Some analysts predict that this case will be as significant to Indian law and sovereignty as the fishing rights cases of Native American tribes in the Pacific Northwest in the 1970s, which resulted in the 1974 Boldt decision affirming their rights to fishing and hunting in their former territories. The five members of the Congressional Native American Caucus who filed are Betty McCollum (D-MN), co-chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus with Tom Cole (R-OK) (Chickasaw); Raúl Grijalva, (D-AZ), vice chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus; Ron Kind (D-WI), vice chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus; and Ben Ray Luján (D-NM), vice chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus.\n\nPenobscot people historically spoke a dialect of Eastern Abenaki, an Algonquian language. It is very similar to the languages of the other members of the Wabanaki Confederacy. There are no fluent speakers and the last known Penobscot speaker of Eastern Abenaki died in the 1990s. A dictionary was compiled. The elementary school and the Boys and Girls Club on Indian Island are making an effort to reintroduce the language by teaching it to the children. The written Penobscot language was developed with a modified Roman alphabet; distinct characters have been developed to represent sounds that do not exist in the Roman alphabet.\n\nIn 1643, Roger Williams wrote \"A Key into the Language of America\". In this work, Williams explained that the language of the Narragansett people (and tribes they'd overtaken or forced into submission) used a language differing only from the northern Algonquian people, in dialect. He wrote that if one tribe's language was known, communication with the other tribe was possible; this was the case all the way north to remote areas of Labrador. Natives in Labrador spoke Algonquian and the Labrador neighbors were of same linguistic stock as the Narragansett tribe. (Williams wrote that this was not the case with the drastically different Iroquois language.) Fluent in many languages, Williams explained his knowledge of the native tongue developed due to a childhood move with his family to a native settlement in Stockbridge where his playmates were all natives. Later he lived with native people to improve his native language skill before embarking on missionary work and authoring prayer conversion booklets. His opinion, Williams wrote, was that the Narragansett (hence the Algonquian) in many cases had words that were Hebrew or in a few cases Greek that he recognized from his work in old Hebrew and Greek biblical text translations. His book \"A Key into the Language of America\" includes a phonetic English dictionary that Williams wished to publish so that his knowledge of this Native American language would not die with him.\n\nThe Penobscot traditionally made baskets out of sweet grass, brown ash, and birch bark. These materials grow in wetlands throughout Maine. However, the species are threatened due to habitat destruction and the emerald ash borer. This insect threatens to destroy all ash trees in Maine, much as it already has devastated ash forests in the Midwest. \n\nThe baskets were traditionally made for practical use, but after European contact, the Penobscot began making \"fancy baskets\" for trade with the Europeans. Basket-making is traditionally a woman's skill passed down in families. Many members of the tribe have been learning traditional forms and creating new variations.\n\nThe birch bark canoe was at one time an important mode of transportation for all nations of the Wabanaki Confederacy. Each nation makes a characteristic shape of canoe. The vessels are each made from one piece of bark from a white birch tree. If done correctly, the large piece of bark can be removed without killing the tree.\n\nPenobscot tradition describes Gluskabe as the creator of man and women. Legends which explained phenomena such as the wind and the growing of corn were passed down by oral tradition among the generations. The French missionaries and colonists converted many Penobscot people to Christianity. In the 21st century, some members practice traditional religion; others on Indian Island are Catholic or Protestant.\n\nIn 1973 the nation opened Penobscot High Stakes Bingo on Indian Island. This was one of the first commercial gambling operations on a reservation in the United States. Bingo is open one weekend every six weeks. The Penobscot tribe has pushed for state legislation allowing them to add slot machines to their bingo hall, but it has not been granted it thus far.\n\n\nMaps showing the approximate locations of areas occupied by members of the Wabanaki Confederacy (from north to south):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10171637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10171637", "title": "Pierre-Clément de Laussat", "text": "Pierre-Clément de Laussat\n\nPierre-Clément de Laussat (23 November 1756 – 10 April 1835) was a French politician, and the 24th Colonial Governor of Louisiana, the last under French rule. He later served as colonial official in Martinique and French Guiana, as well as an administrator in France and Antwerp.\n\nLaussat was born in the town of Pau. After serving as \"receveur général des finances\" in Pau and Bayonne, he was imprisoned during the Terror, but was released and recruited in the \"armée des Pyrénées\". On April 17, 1797, he was elected to the Council of Ancients. After the coup of 18 Brumaire, he entered the Tribunat on December 25, 1798.\n\nHe was appointed by Napoleon Bonaparte to be colonial prefect (governor) of Louisiana in 1802 and arrived in the colony on March 26, 1803, just two weeks before Bonaparte made his decision to sell Louisiana to the United States. Laussat was initially only to be the interim head of Louisiana until arrival of the Governor General Jean-Baptiste Bernadotte appointed by Bonaparte. However, when Bonaparte rejected Bernadotte's request for additional settlers and support for the posting, Bernadotte declined the governorship. This left Laussat ruling as governor for several months, during which time he abolished the local \"cabildo\" and then published the Napoleonic Code in the colony.\n\nWithin several months, Laussat heard that Louisiana had been sold to the U.S. but he did not believe it. On July 28, 1803, he wrote to the French government to inquire whether the rumor was true. On August 18, 1803, he received word from Bonaparte that France had declared war on Great Britain and that he was to transfer Louisiana to the United States.\n\nOn November 30, 1803, Laussat served as commissioner of the French government in the retrocession of Louisiana from Spain to France. A few weeks later, on December 20, 1803, Laussat transferred the colony to the U.S. representatives, William C.C. Claiborne and James Wilkinson.\n\nOn April 21, 1804, Laussat left Louisiana to become colonial prefect of Martinique, serving until 1809 when he was captured and imprisoned by the British. \n\nIn 1810, Laussat returned to France and sought a new governmental posting. He was sent to the French Netherlands to oversee the port of occupied Antwerp (1810–1812) and then to serve as prefect of Jemmape (1812–1814). During the Hundred Days, he served as prefect of Pas-de-Calais until the defeat of Napoleon at Waterloo.\n\nDuring the Bourbon Restoration, he served as commandant of French Guiana from 1819 to 1823, after which he retired to his ancestral chateau in France where he died in 1835.\n\n"}
{"id": "11633329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11633329", "title": "Religious views of William Shakespeare", "text": "Religious views of William Shakespeare\n\nThe religious views of William Shakespeare are the subject of an ongoing scholarly debate dating back more than 150 years. The general assumption about William Shakespeare's religious affiliation is that he was a conforming member of the established Anglican Church. However, many scholars have speculated about his personal religious beliefs, based on analysis of the historical record and of his published work, with claims that Shakespeare's family may have had Catholic sympathies and that he himself was a secret Catholic. Other scholars have speculated that he was an atheist. Due to the paucity of direct evidence, no general agreement has been reached.\n\nShakespeare and his immediate family were conforming members of the established Church of England. When Shakespeare was young, his father, John Shakespeare, was elected to several municipal offices, serving as an alderman and culminating in a term as bailiff, the chief magistrate of the town council, all of which required being a church member in good standing, and he participated in whitewashing over the Catholic images in the chapel and taking down the rood screen. Shakespeare's birth and that of his siblings were entered into the church register, as were the births of his three children and the burials of his family members. His brother Edmund, who followed him to London as an actor and died there, was buried in St Saviour's in Southwark \"with a forenoone knell of the great bell\", most likely paid for by the poet. As leaser of the parish tithes in Stratford, he was a lay rector of the church. He and his wife were buried in the church chancel, and a monument that included a half-figure bust of the poet was set into the north wall of the chancel.\n\nShakespeare failed twice to pay his taxes for St Helen's parish, Bishopsgate, London, where he is listed by name for the year 1596/7, and he is not among those “in any of the annual lists of residents of the Clink parish (St Saviour’s) compiled by the officers who made the rounds to collect tokens purchased by churchgoers for Easter Communion, which was compulsory.” An explanation is offered by historian Walter Godfrey, who suggests that the playwright's default at Bishopsgate was simply because he had moved to the Clink parish at the end of that year, where taxes were collected by the landowner (the bishop of Winchester) and not parish officials. The bishop then remitted the outstanding sum to Shakespeare's former parish \"as a matter of convenience\".\n\nIn 1559, five years before Shakespeare's birth, the Elizabethan Religious Settlement finally severed the Church of England from the Roman Catholic Church. In the ensuing years, extreme pressure was placed on England's Catholics to accept the practices of the Church of England, and recusancy laws made illegal any service not found in the \"Book of Common Prayer\", including the Roman Catholic Mass. In Shakespeare's lifetime there was a substantial and widespread quiet resistance to the newly imposed reforms. Some scholars, using both historical and literary evidence, have argued that Shakespeare was one of these recusants.\n\nSome scholars also believe there is evidence that several members of Shakespeare's family were recusant Catholics. The strongest evidence is a tract professing secret Catholicism signed by John Shakespeare, father of the poet. The tract was found in the 18th century in the rafters of a house which had once been John Shakespeare's, and was seen and described by the reputable scholar Edmond Malone. Malone later changed his mind and declared that he thought the tract was a forgery. Although the document has since been lost, Anthony Holden writes that Malone's reported wording of the tract is linked to a testament written by Charles Borromeo and circulated in England by Edmund Campion, copies of which still exist in Italian and English. Other research, however, suggests that the Borromeo testament is a 17th-century artefact (at the earliest dated from 1638), was not printed for missionary work, and could never have been in the possession of John Shakespeare. John Shakespeare was listed as one who did not attend church services, but this was \"for feare of processe for Debtte\", according to the commissioners, not because he was a recusant.\n\nShakespeare's mother, Mary Arden, was a member of a conspicuous and determinedly Catholic family in Warwickshire. In 1606, his daughter Susanna was listed as one of the residents of Stratford who failed to take (Anglican) Holy Communion at Easter, which may suggest Catholic sympathies. It may, however, also be a sign of Puritan sympathies; Susannah was, according to some statements, of a Puritanical bent.\n\nFour of the six schoolmasters at the grammar school of Shakespeare's youth, King's New School in Stratford, were Catholic sympathisers, and Simon Hunt, who may have been one of Shakespeare's teachers, later became a Jesuit priest. Thomas Jenkins, who succeeded Hunt as teacher in the grammar school, was a student of Edmund Campion at St John's College, Oxford. Jenkins's successor at the grammar school in 1579, John Cottam, was the brother of Jesuit priest Thomas Cottam.\n\nJohn Aubrey, in 1693, reported that Shakespeare had been a country schoolmaster, a tale augmented in the 20th century with the theory that his employer might have been Alexander Hoghton of Lancashire, a prominent Catholic landowner who left money in his will to a certain \"William Shakeshafte\", referencing theatrical costumes and paraphernalia. Shakespeare's grandfather Richard had also once used the name Shakeshafte. Peter Ackroyd adds that examinations of the marginal notes in the Hoghton family copy of Edward Hall's \"Chronicles\", an important source for Shakespeare's early histories, \"indicate the probability that Shakespeare and the annotator were the same man, but do not by any means prove it.\"\n\nShakespeare's marriage to Anne Hathaway in 1582 may have been officiated by, amongst other candidates, John Frith in the town of Temple Grafton a few miles from Stratford. In 1586 the crown named Frith, who maintained the appearance of Protestantism, as a Catholic priest. Some surmise Shakespeare married in Temple Grafton rather than the Anglican church in Stratford in order for his wedding to be performed as a Catholic sacrament. He was thought to have rushed his marriage ceremony, as Anne was three months pregnant.\n\nIn 1611 the historian John Speed asserted Shakespeare's links with Catholicism, accusing him of satirising in \"Henry IV\" the Lollard (or proto-Protestant) martyr John Oldcastle (first portrayed by Shakespeare under his character's real name, then the alias John Falstaff after complaints from Oldcastle's descendants) and linking the playwright with Jesuit Robert Persons, describing them together as \"the Papist and his poet\". Modern critics have attributed other motives for Shakespeare's portrayal; the story of Oldcastle was a popular one and telling the tale from the \"Papist\" perspective (while acknowledging that perhaps this was a perspective with which Shakespeare already had some affinity) was an effective and familiar way to bring it to his audience. A direct explanation, however, comes from the facts of the story in the contemporary accounts of the period; Prince Henry had left his dear friend Oldcastle to his fate after he had failed to persuade the stubborn old knight to recant when he was imprisoned for lollardry.\n\nArchdeacon Richard Davies, a 17th-century Anglican cleric, wrote of Shakespeare: \"He dyed a Papyst\". The \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" (1912) states that \"Davies, an Anglican clergyman, could have had no conceivable motive for misrepresenting the matter in these private notes and as he lived in the neighbouring county of Gloucestershire he may be echoing a local tradition\" but concludes that Davies' comment \"is by no means incredible, but it would obviously be foolish to build too much upon an unverifiable tradition of this kind\".\n\nFollowing E. K. Chambers and Ian Wilson, Joseph Pearce maintains that one of the most compelling pieces of evidence is Shakespeare's purchase of Blackfriars Gatehouse, a place that had remained in Catholic hands since the time of the Reformation, and was notorious for Jesuit conspiracies, priest holes to hide fugitives, and covert Catholic activity in London. The same year that one John Robinson was named as Shakespeare's tenant there, Robinson's brother Edward entered the seminary at the English College in Rome; Shakespeare ensured that the tenant Robinson remained in the house. Shakespeare's daughter Susanna, who inherited the house, continued his tenancy until 1639. Schoenbaum, however, assigns a purely fiscal motive to the purchase: after examining the complex financial arrangements surrounding the transaction he concludes, \"an investment, pure and simple\".\n\nAn increasing number of scholars look to evidence from Shakespeare’s work, such as the placement of young Hamlet as a student at Wittenberg while old Hamlet's ghost is in purgatory, as suggestive of a Catholic worldview, but these speculations can be contradictory: the University of Wittenberg was an intellectual centre of the Protestant Reformation and the whole of \"Hamlet\" can be read as filled with \"cryptic allusions to the Protestant Reformation\". Other indications have been detected in the sympathetic view of religious life expressed in the phrase \"thrice blessed\", scholastic theology in \"The Phoenix and the Turtle\", sympathetic allusions to English Jesuit Edmund Campion in \"Twelfth Night\", and many other instances.\n\nMore recently it has been suggested that Shakespeare was simply playing upon an English Catholic tradition, rather than actually being Catholic, and was using the symbolic nature of Catholic ceremony to embellish his own theatre. Literary scholar David Daniell arrives at a similar conclusion, but from the opposite direction: as a good Protestant Shakespeare used many biblical allusions and quotations in his works, but only because his audience, well versed in the Bible in English, would quickly take his meaning. However, David Beauregard points out that the plays echo both Protestant and Catholic translations of the Bible, with some forty verbal correspondences to the 1582 Rheims New Testament, and they also conflict with the Elizabethan Homilies on at least ten theological topics, such as purgatory, prayers for the dead, indulgences, pilgrimages, merit, auricular confession and satisfaction. Schoenbaum suspects Catholic sympathies of some kind or another in Shakespeare and his family, but considers the writer himself to be a less than pious person with essentially worldly motives: \"...the artist takes precedence over the votary\".\n\nLiterary scholar and Jesuit Father Peter Milward and the writer Clare Asquith are among those who have written that Catholic sympathies are detectable in Shakespeare's works. Asquith believed that Shakespeare uses terms such as \"high\" when referring to Catholic characters and \"low\" when referring to Protestants (the terms refer to their altars) and \"light\" or \"fair\" to refer to Catholic and \"dark\" to refer to Protestant, a reference to certain clerical garbs. Asquith also detects in Shakespeare's work the use of a simple code used by the Jesuit underground in England which took the form of a mercantile terminology wherein priests were 'merchants' and souls were 'jewels', those pursuing them were 'creditors', and the Tyburn gallows, where the members of the underground died, was called 'the place of much trading'. The Jesuit underground used this code so their correspondences looked like innocuous commercial letters, and Asquith believed that Shakespeare also used this code. Asquith's conclusions, however, have met with considerable criticism and evidence of a hidden code has been called \"dubious\". According to professor Jeffrey Knapp, the work of scholars like Peter Milward, who believe that \"the deepest inspiration in Shakespeare's plays is both religious and Christian\", has had \"little influence on recent Shakespeare scholarship\". John Finnis and Patrick Martin have argued more recently that Catholic martyr Anne Line is the eponymous phoenix of \"The Phoenix and the Turtle\" and her husband Roger is the eponymous turtle. They believe, with Asquith, that the poem's 'bird of loudest lay' represents the composer William Byrd and that the crow is the Jesuit Henry Garnet.\n\nAlthough Shakespeare commonly adapted existing tales, typically myths or works in another language, Joseph Pearce claims that \"King John\", \"King Lear\" and \"Hamlet\" were all works that had been done recently and in English with an anti-Catholic bias, and that Shakespeare's versions appear to be a refutation of the source plays. Pearce believes otherwise he would not have \"reinvented the wheel\", revisiting recent English plays. Peter Milward is among those who hold the view that Shakespeare engaged in rebuttal of recent English \"anti-Papist\" works. Again, David Beauregard points out that, in the Italian source for \"Measure for Measure,\" the secular heroine is seduced and finally married, but Shakespeare revises his characterisation, so that her counterpart Isabella becomes a Poor Clare novice who maintains her virginity and does not marry. On the other hand, Jonathan Bate describes the process of \"Leir\" transformation into \"Lear\" as replacing the \"external trappings of Christianity\" with a pagan setting. He adds that the devils plaguing \"Poor Tom\" in Shakespeare's version have the same names as the evil spirits in a book by Samuel Harsnett, later Archbishop of York, that denounces the \"fake\" Catholic practice of exorcism.\n\nThe names \"Arthurus Stratfordus Wigomniensis\" and \"Gulielmus Clerkue Stratfordiensis\" are found within ancient inscriptions at the Venerable English College, a seminary in Rome which has long trained Catholic clergy serving in Britain. Scholars have speculated that these names might be related to Shakespeare, who is alleged to have visited the city of Rome twice during his life.\n\nOne critic states, \"One cannot quite speak of a consensus among Shakespeare scholars on this point, though the reluctance of some to admit the possibility of Catholicism in Shakespeare's family is becoming harder to maintain.\" Other research by Jesuit scholars argues strongly against this speculation.\n\nIn 1843, a presentation of Shakesperean religious extracts was published by Sir Frederick Beilby Watson and Frederic Dan Huntington as the \"Religious and Moral Sentences Culled from the Works of Shakespeare, Compared with Sacred Passages Drawn from Holy Writ\"' This was an early work that, in contrast to Catholic-directed studies, sought for Protestant and Biblical allusions in the works of the writer. In Watson's words, this was carried out \"by proving from Shakespeare's own writings, that he lived and died as a true protestant,\" collecting \"presumptive evidence that the tenets of the religion which he professed were not of the Roman Catholic persuasion.\"\n\nA century later, Shakespeare editor and historian A. L. Rowse wrote a biography of Shakespeare, where, similarly, he firmly asserted that the writer was not a secret Catholic, but a Protestant: \"He was an orthodox, confirming member of the Church into which he had been baptised, was brought up and married, in which his children were reared and in whose arms he at length was buried\". Shakespeare had also become the godfather of William Walker in the Church of England, and he remembered his godson in his will with twenty shillings.\n\nRowse identifies anti-Catholic sentiment in Sonnet 124, taking \"the fools of time\" in the last lines of this sonnet \"To this I witness call the fools of time, which die for goodness who have lived for crime.\" to refer to the many Jesuits who were executed for treason in the years 1594-5. In regard to this, John Klause of Hofstra University accepts that Shakespeare intended \"the fools of time\" in the sonnet to represent executed Jesuits, but contends that the poet, by alluding to executed Jesuit Robert Southwell's \"Epistle of Comfort\" and its glorification of martyrdom, sympathises with them. Klause maintains that Southwell's influence is also identifiable in \"Titus Andronicus\". A later assessment places Klause's interpretation as \"against most recent trends\".\n\nNotwithstanding Pearce's identification (above) of Shakespeare's \"King John\" as a reworking of \"The Troublesome Reign of King John\", made to refute its anti-Catholic bias, strong examples of Protestant sympathies, such as the denouncement of the Pope as an \"unworthy and ridiculous...Italian priest\" with \"usurped authority\", remain in the text.\n\nYale's David Kastan sees no inconsistency in a Protestant dramatist lampooning the martyr Oldcastle in the play \"Henry IV\" (above): a contemporary audience would have identified Shakespeare's unsympathetic portrayal as a proof of his Protestantism because the knight's Lollardry was in the author's time identified with Puritanism, by then abhorred for undermining the established church.\n\nStephen Greenblatt acknowledges the convention that the \"equivocator\" arriving at the gate of hell in the Porter's speech in \"Macbeth\" is a reference to the Jesuit Father Henry Garnet, who had been executed in 1606. He argues that Shakespeare probably included the allusion for the sake of topicality, trusting that his audience would have heard of Garnet's pamphlet on equivocation, and not from any hidden sympathy for the man or his cause – indeed the portrait is not a sympathetic one. Literary editor Bishop Warburton declared that in the mind of Jacobean playgoers the policy of equivocation, adopted as an official doctrine of the Jesuits, would have been a direct reminder of Catholic treason in the \"Gunpowder plot\". Shakespeare may have also been aware of the \"equivocation\" concept which appeared as the subject of a 1583 tract by Queen Elizabeth's chief councillor Lord Burghley, and the 1584 \"Doctrine of Equivocation\" by the Spanish prelate Martin Azpilcueta that was disseminated across Europe and into England in the 1590s.\n\nPerhaps Shakespeare's most direct reference in the plays to contemporary religious issues comes at the birth of Queen Elizabeth in \"Henry VIII\", during whose reign, as the character Archbishop Cranmer, architect of the reformation, predicts: \"God shall be truly known\". The words in question, however, are generally attributed to Fletcher, and not directly attributable to Shakespeare.\n\nOne perspective is that to deduce from the evidence a definite Anglican Shakespeare is to misapprehend the religious circumstances of the time, the word \"Anglican\" not existing until nearly two decades after the writer's death and contemporary historians not recognising Anglicanism as a firm organisation or religious identity during his lifetime. In a similar vein, Maurice Hunt, Jean-Christophe Mayer and others have written of a Shakespeare with a syncretic or hybrid faith, in some sense both Catholic and Protestant. Anthony Nuttall argues Shakespeare's work defies identification of precise religious influences because Shakespeare's ranging and restless mind played with many ideas, alternately promoting and challenging assumptions throughout the plays; in \"Measure for Measure\", Nuttall finds evidence of experimentation with heretical Gnostic theology. However, Eamon Duffy points out that although the majority of Tudor people were muddled and uncertain, accepting of compromise and accommodation, \"Religious diversity was not a notion to conjure with in Tudor England… Ritual and doctrinal diversity were evils, aspects of social and religious disunity.\"\n\nOther scholars who have searched for Protestant rhetoric in Shakespeare's writings include Maurice Hunt (Baylor University), E. Beatrice Batson (Wheaton College), and Joseph William Sterrett (Aarhus University), the last of which insists that Shakespeare promoted religious tolerance in his writings.\nShakespeare scholars such as Eric Sams and Robert Miola disagree with the traditional position that Shakespeare was a member of the established Anglican Church.\n\nBeilby Watson (1843) as well as John Donnan Countermine (1906) argued that Shakespeare's religious beliefs could be studied taking into account his will, which states:\n\nIn the opinion of David Kastan, \"this is as close as we can get to an expression of [Shakespeare's] own belief, and might well be taken as conclusive evidence [by some people]\". A. L. Rowse (2013), for instance, insisted that the statement in Shakespeare's Will shows a conformist position to Protestant religion. Kastan discusses how some might see the phrase \"through thonlie merittes of Jesus Christe\" as a reference to the doctrine of \"solus Christus\", but at the same time he argues that the expression \"might have become merely conventional by 1616, and have little or any theological import\". Thus, he asserts that this can hardly be considered as an ultimate evidence to define Shakespeare's religious affiliation, since the preamble was formulaic in the epoch.\n\nScholar Park Honan, in \"Shakespeare, A Life\" (1998), concurs with the view that Shakespeare's biblical references are essentially conformist, alluding to his use of the Bishop's Bible in his plays and religious activity in Protestant circles. However, critics of the former point say that Church attendance cannot be taken as a conclusive proof because attendance at Protestant churches was mandatory in the epoch. Hence, Callaghan concludes that \"we may not know decisively if Shakespeare was a Catholic, but crucially, neither do we know that he was a stalwart Protestant.\"\n\nShakespeare’s Christianity is not universally accepted. William Birch of Oxford University was, in 1848, probably the first to suggest that Shakespeare could be an atheist, based on his interpretation of sentiments expressed in the works. His theory wasn't accepted by other scholars, however, and his contemporary H. H. Furness dismissed it as a \"rare tissue of perverted ingenuity\". Some evidence used to support this thesis was suggested by a notorious forger of historical documents, John Payne Collier, who examined the records of St Saviour's, Southwark, and found that Shakespeare, alone among his fellow Globe actors, was not shown as a churchgoer. Joseph Pearce again offers the explanation of recusancy, rather than evidence of atheism. Herbert Thurston, writing in the 1912 edition of the \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" questioned not only Shakespeare's Catholicism, but pondered \"whether Shakespeare was not infected with the atheism, which, as we know from the testimony of writers as opposite in spirit as Thomas Nashe and [Robert] Persons, was rampant in the more cultured society of the Elizabethan age.\"\n\nIn a 1947 essay, George Orwell wrote that \"The morality of Shakespeare's later tragedies is not religious in the ordinary sense, and certainly is not Christian. Only two of them, \"Hamlet\" and \"Othello\", are supposedly occurring inside the Christian era, and even in those, apart from the antics of the ghost in \"Hamlet\", there is no indication of a ‘next world’ where everything is to be put right... We do not know a great deal about Shakespeare's religious beliefs, and from the evidence of his writings it would be difficult to prove that he had any.\"\n\nRussian Shakespeare scholar Vadim Nikolayev has stated \"that Shakespeare put forward anti-church ideas and did not consider suicide to be a sin\", that he \"skillfully avoided conflicts with censorship\". Nikolayev presented these theories in 2008, at an International Conference; it caused intense discussion, though the majority of participants disagreed.\n\n\"As flies to wanton boys are we to th' gods. They kill us for their sport.\" - The Earl of Gloucester in \"King Lear\", Act 4 Scene 1\n\nShakespeare's very frequent references to Paganistic gods and concepts, such as Hymen bringing about the resolution of \"As You Like It\", are not a reflection of his own belief but a necessary device to present deity on stage, where Christian figures were, in contrast to the presentation of the mystery plays of earlier times, prohibited. Some commonplace Christian allusions, involving no physical manifestation of religion, in Quarto editions of the history cycle were replaced with harmless references to pagan gods when the First Folio appeared.\n\nShakespeare's views on Islam have been described by \"The Economist\" as \"complex\" and \"multifaceted\", and he \"was ahead of his time in his sensitivity to the Islamic world and its inhabitants.\" According to the conclusion of Prof Matthew Dimmock, Shakespeare's depiction of Islam and Muslims \"denied either scriptural congruence or religious coherence, embodied in the martially aggressive male.\" Shakespeare's works included several Muslim characters, including Aaron the Moor in \"Titus Andronicus\", the Prince of Morocco in \"The Merchant of Venice\" and Othello in the eponymous play. These works are said to have been inspired by several Moorish delegations from Morocco to Elizabethan England around 1600, such as that of Abd el-Ouahed ben Messaoud. Shakespeare also makes one explicit reference to Muhammad, in \"Henry VI\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23398964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23398964", "title": "Richard M Kavuma", "text": "Richard M Kavuma\n\nRichard M. Kavuma is a Ugandan journalist and editor with \"The Observer\" newspaper. He also writes for the London newspapers \"Guardian\" and \"The Observer\" about the Katine project in Uganda. Kavuma has won international awards including the 2006 United Nations Foundation award for Development and Humanitarian coverage and the 2007 CNN Multichoice African Journalist of the Year Award. In 2008 his award-winning articles, about Millennium Development Goals, were published into a book by the United Nations Millennium Campaign. The book, Good Policies, Poor Policing, was launched in Accra, Ghana, in July 2008. Richard M. Kavuma is the editor of The Observer newspaper a tri - weekly that publishes on Monday, Wednesday and Friday.\n\n"}
{"id": "23485585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23485585", "title": "Robert Xowie", "text": "Robert Xowie\n\nRobert Xowie (born in the Wetr district of Lifou on August 27, 1962) is a New Caledonian politician and pro-independence advocate. A Kanak of the Siloam tribe, Xowie served as President of Loyalty Islands Province from 1999 until 2004, as well as mayor of Lifou from 1995 until 2001.\n"}
{"id": "50621003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50621003", "title": "Rowena Bradley", "text": "Rowena Bradley\n\nRowena Bradley (1922–2003) was an Eastern Band Cherokee basketweaver from the United States. Bradley's work has been exhibited at Qualla Arts and Crafts Mutual in Cherokee, North Carolina.\n\nRowena Bradley was born in 1922 to Nancy George Bradley (1881–1963) and Henry Bradley, and was the youngest of eight children. She grew up on the Painttown Community's Swimmer Branch on the Qualla Boundary.\n\nRowena created her first basket at the age of six. She learned weaving by observing her mother and her grandmother Mary Dobson (\"Tahtahyeh\", b. ca. 1857), who were both accomplished basketmakers. While neither her mother or her grandmother spoke English, they sold their baskets outside the Qualla Boundary area, including Washington, D.C. and New York.\n\nBradley was also a student of basketweaver Lottie Queen Stamper, who taught basketmaking at the Cherokee boarding school.\n\nBradley crafted baskets from rivercane and was one of few weavers with knowledge of a double-weave technique, which she learned from her mother Nancy Bradley. She quartered, peeled, and scraped the rivercane with a pocketknife. The dye materials she used were derived from local bark and roots such as butternut, black walnut and bloodroot. She wove patterns that she learned from her mother and also made her own designs. Her favored designs are now known as Peace Pipe, Double Peace Pipe, and Chief's Daughter.\n\nJournalist John Parris described the process Bradley used in weaving, \"working from memory, she forms the strips into patterns and then into baskets of all shapes and sizes. Early in the process of a double-weave pattern, literally scores of withes seem to fly out in all directions.\" Bradley devised new types of baskets, including a Purse Basket for sales to tourists.\n\nBradley's basketry was featured in a 1974 exhibition at the Qualla Arts and Crafts Mutual in Cherokee, North Carolina. The exhibition was partially funded by the North Carolina Arts Council and the Indian Arts and Crafts Board. She was recognized as \"one of the foremost masters of rivercane basketry and one the most talented, creative basketmakers in the United States.\" Stephen Richmond wrote that Bradley's work was a \"new dimension of technical and aesthetic achievement.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14510499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14510499", "title": "Stanislaus Francis Perry", "text": "Stanislaus Francis Perry\n\nStanislaus Francis Perry (May 7, 1823 – February 24, 1898) was a farmer and politician in Prince Edward Island, Canada.\n\nHe represented 1st Prince in the Legislative Assembly of Prince Edward Island from 1854 to 1875 and from 1879 to 1887 and, in the House of Commons of Canada, represented Prince County from 1874 to 1878 and from 1887 to 1896 and West Prince from 1897 to 1898 as a Liberal member. Perry (Poirier) was the first Acadian to serve in both the provincial assembly and the House of Commons.\n\nHe was born Stanislas-François Poirier in Tignish, Prince Edward Island, the son of Pierre Poirier and Marie-Blanche Gaudet. Poirier was educated in Tignish and then was educated in English at St. Andrew's College in Charlottetown. On his return to Tignish in 1843, he taught school. Poirier anglicized his name around this time. In 1847, he married Margaret Carroll. He was named a justice of the peace in 1851.\n\nIn 1854, Perry left teaching, began farming to support his family and entered politics. As an Acadian, he supported the redistribution of land on the island from the landowners to the tenant farmers. In 1870, he supported a coalition conservative government because it supported grants to Catholic schools. Perry was speaker in the provincial assembly from 1873 to 1874. Perry was initially opposed to Confederation but ran unsuccessfully for a seat in the House of Commons in 1873 before being elected in 1874. He was also an unsuccessful federal candidate in 1878 and 1882. He was defeated in 1896 but won the subsequent by-election after the first election was declared invalid. Perry was a proponent of a tunnel to link the island to the mainland.\n\nPerry helped organize the first and second Acadian national conventions in Memramcook, New Brunswick (1881) and Miscouche, Prince Edward Island (1884) although he boycotted the second event because he wanted the event to be held in Tignish.\n\nHe died in office in Ottawa in 1898 and was buried in Tignish. He's a direct ancestor of current PEI MLA Hal Perry.\n\n"}
{"id": "396303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=396303", "title": "Thomas Conway", "text": "Thomas Conway\n\nThomas Conway (February 27, 1735 – c. 1800) served as a major general in the American Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War. He became involved with the alleged Conway Cabal with Horatio Gates. He later served with Émigré forces during the French Revolutionary War.\n\nConway was born in Ireland to James Conway and his wife Julieanne Conway. As a child, he immigrated to France with his parents. At 14, he enrolled in the Irish Brigade of the French Army and rose rapidly to colonel by 1772.\n\nFollowing the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War he volunteered to the Congress for service with the American rebels in 1777. Based on an introduction from Silas Deane, the Congress appointed him a brigadier general on May 13, and sent him on to George Washington.\n\nConway commanded the leading brigade on the American right flank at the Battle of Germantown, and was justly praised for his actions. However, Washington opposed his promotion to major general, believing that many American-born officers with longer and valuable service deserved the rank; this caused a falling out between Washington and Conway. Congress appointed Conway a major general despite Washington's objections in December 1777, and made him inspector general of the army.\n\nWhen his name was used politically, it was used to describe the infighting known as the Conway Cabal. During the affair, he had written a letter to General Horatio Gates in which he referred to Washington as a \"weak general\". The letter was intercepted by Washington and his backers after its delivery was botched by Brigadier General James Wilkinson, and brought before the Congress for inquiry. When the contents of the letter were made public, Conway lost his command as a result. He tried a ploy that had worked before his promotion, and submitted his resignation to Congress in March 1778. This time it was accepted, so he was forced to leave the continental army. John Cadwalader shot him in a duel on July 4, 1778. When he recovered, he wrote an apology to Washington and returned to France.\n\nThere is also a slightly different version of these happenings:\n\nConway later returned to the French Army, in 1787 he received promotion to Maréchal-de-camp (Major General) and an appointment as Governor of French colonies in India.\n\nIn 1793 he fought with royalist forces in opposition to French Revolution in southern France.\n\nDuring the French Revolution he was condemned to death. He was saved only by an appeal to Great Britain (against which he had fought in the American Revolution), but was compelled to flee from France for his life.\n\nAfter that Conway disappeared from history. He is supposed to have died about 1800 in Ireland in poverty and exile.\n"}
{"id": "896765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=896765", "title": "William Gilbert (author)", "text": "William Gilbert (author)\n\nWilliam Gilbert (20 May 1804 – 3 January 1890) was an English writer and Royal Navy surgeon. He wrote a considerable number of novels, biographies, histories, essays (especially about the dangers of alcohol and the plight of the poor) and popular fantasy stories, mostly in the 1860s and 1870s. Some of these have been reprinted in recent decades and are still available today. He is best remembered, however, as the father of dramatist W. S. Gilbert of Gilbert and Sullivan.\n\nGilbert was born at Bishopstoke, Hampshire, the eldest son of William (1780–1812), a grocer in Commercial Row, Blackfriars, London, and his wife Sarah \"née\" Mathers (1782–1810). Both his parents died of tuberculosis by the time William was seven years old, and thereafter, he and his younger siblings, Joseph and Jane, were raised in London by their mother's sister and her husband, Mary \"nee\" Mathers (b. 1778) and John Samuel Schwenck (d. 1865), a childless and financially comfortable couple. Gilbert's father had also left the children legacies that would be invested by their uncle until the youngest had reached age 21, so Gilbert's would not be due to him until age 26. With the three young Gilbert children, the Schwencks soon moved from Lambeth to a larger house in Clapham, where they raised the children with affection.\n\nGilbert served the East India Company as a midshipman from 1818 (age 14) to 1821 but was unhappy with the conditions, and so he quit the service. He then spent several years in Italy, returning to England about 1825. There he studied at Guy's Hospital and served as an assistant surgeon in the navy, and then he entered the Royal College of Surgeons in 1830. At this time, he received his an annuity from his father's estate, giving him financial independence, and also published a volume of his poetry. He first married Mary Ann Skelton in 1832, who died two years later at around age 20. By this time, he had privately published another book, but after the death of his wife, he published no more for many years. He married Anne Mary Bye Morris (1811–1888), age 24, on 14 February 1836. She was the daughter of Thomas Morris (1760–1849), an apothecary, and Christiana \"nee\" Sutherland (1777–1845). The couple's famous son, W. S. Gilbert, was born on 18 November 1836 at the Morris's house in Southampton Street. The Gilberts then moved to Hammersmith, near Anne's sister Harriet and her family.\n\nIn 1838, Gilbert took his wife and toddler on a long trip to Italy, where he had lived as a young man. There, their daughter Jane Morris Gilbert (1838–1906) was born. In 1841, Gilbert's brother and sister, Joseph and Jane, both died of tuberculosis. Gilbert received some property owned by his sister and became a potential co-guardian to Joseph's two young sons, together with the Schwencks. In 1843, his daughter Mary Florence (1843–1911) was born. In early 1845, Gilbert decided to take custody of his two young nephews from their mother, Catherine, who had begun a relationship with an officer of the East India Company. She brought a custody lawsuit and her children were returned to her. Amidst considerable publicity critical of Gilbert and the Schwencks, Gilbert fled with his young family to Boulogne, France, where his daughter, Anne Maude (1845–1932), was born. The family lived there for two years and returned to London in 1847, moving to Brompton.\n\nGilbert and Anne \"led an increasingly quarrelsome life\" in London.\n\nGilbert began his writing career around 1857. He was concerned, throughout his life, with the welfare of the poor and served as honorary secretary of the Society of the Relief of Distress. His interest in the poor is evident in his writing, and one of his recurring themes was that poverty and alcohol, not genealogy, was the major cause of crime and the main factor in one's later fortunes. This theme would also be seen in his son's writing. One of the elder Gilbert's first pieces was a pamphlet entitled, \"On the Present System of Rating for the Relief of the Poor in the Metropolis\" (1857). In 1858, anonymously, Gilbert published \"Dives and Lazarus, or the adventures of an obscure medical man in a low neighbourhood.\" The book was a fictional account focusing on what Gilbert saw as the increasing disparity in the lives of the rich and the poor. A similar theme pervades another early Gilbert novel, \"The Weaver's Family\" (1860). This theme continued to concern Gilbert throughout his career including in \"Contrasts; dedicated to the ratepayers of London\" (1873) and in one of his fiercest attacks on social abuses, \"The City; An Inquiry into the Corporation, its livery companies, and the administration of their charities and endowments\" (1877), describing how 50,000 working-class people were evicted from their dwellings to make room for the Metropolitan Railway. In an age of male chauvinism, Gilbert also wrote several articles about discrimination against women.\n\nIn 1859, Gilbert published a novel, \"Margaret Meadows, A Tale for the Pharisees\". This was made into a play called \"Mary Warner\" by Tom Taylor in 1869, who was forced to pay Gilbert a settlement for plagiarising his novel. Gilbert's most successful early novel was \"Shirley Hall Asylum: Or the Memoirs of a Monomaniac\" (1863), which told the stories of inmates of a lunatic asylum from the point of view of an escapee driven mad by trying to solve the problem of perpetual motion. Gilbert's first novel published under his own name was \"Christmas Tale: The Rosary, a Legend of Wilton Abbey\" (1863). The story purports to be the written confession of one Alicia Longspée, who had been Lady Abbess of the Benedictine Convent at Wilton in the 15th century. Gilbert's next novel, \"De Profundis, a tale of the social deposits\" (1864) is the story of a foundling rescued by a Scottish Fusilier Guardsman stationed in London. The foundling grows up to marry the guardsman's daughter. Another 1864 book was \"The Goldsworthy Family, or the country attorney\", about an unethical lawyer.\n\nGilbert's 1865 book, \"The Magic Mirror\" (about a mirror that grants wishes), containing stories with a moral was illustrated by his multi-talented son. Gilbert also wrote histories and articles and stories for numerous periodicals (often anonymously), including \"Cornhill, Temple Bar, St. Paul's, the Quiver, The Contemporary Review, The Sunday Magazine, Good Things, Good Words, Strahan's Boy's and Girl's (sic) Annual\" and \"The Fortnightly Review\".\n\nAmong Gilbert's best-known, and most popular, works were his \"Innominato\" tales of the supernatural, published in various magazines, including \"Argosy\", and finally collected in \"The Wizard of the Mountain\" (1867). One of the best-known is \"The Last Lords of Gardonal\" (1867). These stories concerned the adventures of an enigmatic wizard and astrologer called the Innominato (in English, \"Nameless\"), in 14th century Italy, who tried to use his powers to help people.\n\nIn 1868, Gilbert wrote \"The Doctor of Beauweir, an autobiography\", told from the point of view of a South Wales medic. \"King George's Middy\" (1869), also illustrated by W. S. Gilbert, relates the adventures of a Leicestershire squire's son who becomes a midshipman and is marooned of the coast of Africa. Another 1869 novel was Sir Thomas Branston. Later that year, Gilbert produced his most famous biography, \"Lucrezia Borgia, Duchess of Ferrara: a biography: Illustrated by rare and unpublished documents\". In this work, Gilbert concluded, after extensive research, that there was no evidence of the acts of gross immorality of which Borgia was accused, including murder. This was followed in 1870 by \"The Inquisitor, or the Struggle in Ferrara\", about the life of Renée of France, Duchess of Ferrara, set in 1554.\n\nIn 1871, the novel \"Martha\" was followed by \"The Landlord of the \"Sun\"\", again describing a descent into degradation, this time involving a villainous seducer, an illegitimate child and drunkenness, and, in 1873, by \"Clara Levesque.\" Another theme that was seen in Gilbert's writings was his dislike of established religion and the Roman Catholic Church in particular. Two works on this theme included \"Facta non Verba: a comparison between the good works performed by the ladies in Roman Catholic communities in England and the unfettered efforts of their Protestant sisters\" (1874) and \"Disestablishment from a Church point of view\" (1875).\n\nGilbert had a mercurial temper and was difficult to live with, imposing arbitrary restrictions on his wife and daughters. After many years of strained relations with his wife, Gilbert left home and separated from her in 1876 after forty years of marriage. He left his wife and daughters substantial incomes and the family home, assuming that he would be able to earn a good living from his writing. However, he soon became seriously ill and appeared to be dying, and his doctors advised him not to write. His wife did not assist in his care and did not, ultimately, allow him to return home. Her son appealed to her on his father's behalf, but she would not change her mind. W. S. Gilbert apparently never contacted his mother again. Instead, Gilbert went to live with Jane, his only married daughter, and her husband in The Close at Salisbury, where he resided for the rest of his life.\n\nIn 1877, Gilbert published \"Them Boots\", another description of characters from the lowest class of society, as well as \"The City\". Pursuing another favourite theme, the dangers of drink, Gilbert also published in 1877 \"Nothing but the Truth, an unvarnished picture of the effects of intemperance\", and example of his many writings about the dangers of alcohol. 1879 saw the publication of \"Mrs. Dubosq's Bible\", about a French Huguenot group in Spitalfields in the 18th century, and the possession of a 1650 Geneva Bible by a poor person. In 1880, \"Memoirs of a Cynic\" was a protest against cruelty and hypocrisy. This was followed in 1881 by \"Modern Wonders of the World, or the new Sinbad\", a series of 10 stories told to London children by Hassan, the son of an Egyptian slave dealer. His last book, published in 1882, \"Legion, or the modern demoniac\", returns to Gilbert's campaign against drink, which, he illustrated, leads to \"crime, profligacy, suicide, homicide, brutality, cruelty, pauperism, idiocy and insanity.\"\n\nGilbert died at the age of 86 and was buried in The Close at Salisbury. Direct descendants of the Gilbert family still live in Cornwall, England.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50990117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50990117", "title": "Xian Hui", "text": "Xian Hui\n\nXian Hui (; Xiao'erjing: ; born March 1958) is a Chinese female politician of Hui ethnic heritage. She is serving as Chairwoman (Governor) of Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region from July 2016. Along with Bu Xiaolin of Inner Mongolia and Chen Yiqin of Guizhou, Xian Hui is one of only three women to hold a provincial government leadership position in China, as of 2016.\n\nXian Hui was born in Dingxi prefecture, Gansu on March 1958. During Down to the Countryside Movement, she became a Sent-down youth in Dingxi, performing manual labour. Between 1978 and 1981, she joined one of the first batches of students to be admitted to post-secondary education following the Cultural Revolution and took up studies in Chinese literature at the Minzu University of China. After university, she returned to her home province, and began working in the provincial United Front Work Department, where she would rise steadily through its career ladder and serve until 2005, eventually rising to head the old cadres bureau and the deputy head of the Gansu United Front Department.\n\nIn 2003, Xian was appointed as deputy head of the party's Organization Department of Gansu. In March 2007, Xian was named vice-governor. She was named to the provincial party standing committee in April 2012. In May 2015, she became executive vice-governor; she served until July 2016.\n\nOn July 3, 2016, Xian was named Chairwoman of Ningxia, a region bordering Gansu. Xian's ascension to the Chairwoman's office marked the only known instance in the history of the People's Republic during which one woman succeeded another woman in a leading provincial party or government position. She was confirmed as government by the regional People's Congress on September 19, 2016.\n"}
