{"id": "29045550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29045550", "title": "Abu Dhabi Authority for Culture &amp; Heritage", "text": "Abu Dhabi Authority for Culture &amp; Heritage\n\nThe Abu Dhabi Authority for Culture & Heritage (known colloquially as the ADACH) was a statutory body in the United Arab Emirates that administered cultural heritage in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. In 2012, it merged into the Abu Dhabi Tourism & Culture Authority. \n\nThe Abu Dhabi Authority for Culture & Heritage (ADACH) was founded in 2006, in order to be the United Arab Emirate's solitary governing body for cultural heritage maintenance. Both the Historic Buildings Division and the Archaeology Division were governed by the ADACH. The organization's headquarters was located in one of the oldest cultural heritage buildings in the city, near the Qasr al-Hosn. It had a theater, amphitheater, and gallery.\n\nIt organized the representation of UAE at the 53rd Venice Biennale in 2009. ADACH also organized arts events in Abu Dhabi. They partnered with British Council in 2010 to present dancer Akram Khan. That same year, ADACH partnered with the Western Region Development Council, the Union Defence Force, and the UAE Civil Services Department to offer scholarships to people interested in knowledge-based economies. As of 2010, the organization was suffering from \"organizational and financial problems.\"\n\nIn 2011 it launched a preservation project to inventory and research the cultural heritage and life of those living in the region prior to modernization in the 1960s. ADACH also started a GIS database for cultural heritage sites. It also maintained a historic preservation program for historic buildings in rural areas of the country. The organization also hosted the first WOMAD festival in the Middle East. It also held the first Abu Dhabi International Book Fair and Abu Dhabi Film Festivals. It founded the Al Qattara Arts Center.\n\nIn February 2012, ADACH announced the creation of an extension location of the Al Ain National Museum and the preservation of the Hili Archaeological Park in Al Ain. The project aimed to show the cultural history of Al Ain outside the central city, and closer to the oasis' borders. The preservation of the park, included an interpretive center about the people and history of the site.\n\nThe Abu Dhabi Tourism & Culture Authority was established and the ADACH was merged into it, in February 2012. The merger was required by Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, with the goal of having one organization govern all aspects of tourism.\n\nUpon merger, the WOMAD and Sounds of Arabia festivals, along with the Abu Dhabi Classics concerts were canceled. The organization's name is still representing the Abu Dhabi International Book Fair and the Beit Al Oud Arabic Music Academy. The organization was a partner with the World Digital Library, and their content continues to be represented via the website. It was a partner with the New York Film Academy, which continues today.\n\nCollections included the photography collection of Edward \"Tug\" Wilson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55505034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55505034", "title": "Aramaic studies", "text": "Aramaic studies\n\nAramaic studies is the study of the Aramaic language and Syriac Christianity. A specialist in Aramaic studies is known as a Aramaicist. British, French, and German scholars of the 18th and 19th centuries who were involved in the study of Syriac/Aramaic language and literature were commonly known by the designation Syriacist (a scholar of Syriac studies, at a time when the Syriac language was little understood outside Assyrian, Syriac Christian and Maronite Christian communities. In Germany the field of study is distinguished between \"Aramaistik\" (Aramaic studies) and \"Neuaramaistik\" (Neo-Aramaic (Syriac) studies).\n\nAramaic studies is the term used at the University of Oxford, University of Leiden, and University of Detroit Mercy. At some other universities, Aramaic studies are mostly incorporated into a more 'general' field of studies, such as Eastern Christianity at the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London, as Eastern Christianity at Duke University, or as Semitic studies at the Freie Universität Berlin. Most students learn the Aramaic language and Syriac language within a biblical studies program.\n\nAramaic academic journals include the annual \"Aramaic Studies\", a leading journal for Aramaic language and literature published by Brill Academic Publishers. The journal incorporates the previous \"Journal for the Aramaic Bible\" for a more inclusive scope, to include all aspects of Aramaic language and literature, even when not, or only indirectly, related to Biblical texts.\n\n"}
{"id": "58761748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58761748", "title": "Azerbaijan Teachers` Institute", "text": "Azerbaijan Teachers` Institute\n\nThe Azerbaijan Teachers` Institute () is a higher educational institution that provides training, retraining and advanced training of teachers.\n\nSince 1920, the People's Commissariat for Education has organized short courses (duration:2-6 months) for school teachers. In those years the Commissariat decided to create home pedagogical technical schools. Such technical schools established in which 1500 teachers were involved were established in 1927 with the purpose of training teachers with secondary special education. \n\nOn October 1, 1929, in accordance with the Decision of the Board of the Branch of People's Commissariat for Education of the Azerbaijan SSR dated July 13, 1929, the Azerbaijan Institute of Advanced Studies of the Personnel of Public Education was opened. The Institute included home pedagogical technical schools, a former pedagogical faculty, and correspondence methodical courses. Initially, the Institute was engaged only in the retraining of pedagogical personnel, which were conducted through correspondence and short-term courses. The retraining was covered by educators of all categories.\n\nIn 1939, the Institute for Advanced Studies of the Personnel of Public Education was replaced by the Republican Institute for Advanced Studies of Teachers.\n\nIn 1972, it also was reorganized into the Azerbaijan Central Institute for Advanced Studies of Teachers. In order to improve the system of advanced training of the public education employees by the decision of the Council of Ministers of Azerbaijan SSR No. 398 dated October 4, 1989, the Azerbaijan Central Institute of Advanced Training for Teachers was reorganized into the Institute of Advanced Training and Retraining of Teachers. It was given the status of higher education I category. The Institute moved to the cathedral system, faculties were organized for the implementation of work on advanced training.\n\nIn 2000, by the Decree of the President of Azerbaijan No. 349, the Azerbaijan Institute of Teachers was established with 12 branches in the Nakhichevan, Ganja, Sumgait, Mingechevir, Gazakh, Shamakhi, Quba, Salyan, Jalilabad, Agjabedi, Sheki, Zagatala and with a training and advisory center in Lankaran. In a short time, the Nakhchivan branch has become an independent Institution of teachers.\n\nThe Azerbaijan Teachers` Institute include the faculties such as Pedagogy and philology, Further training and improvement of teaching staff, Pedagogy, Psychology, Literature and teaching methods, Azerbaijani language and its teaching methods, Foreign languages, Natural sciences and methods of their teaching, Mathematics and teaching methods, Social Sciences, Information technologies and methods of their teaching, Education management and vocational training, Methods of primary and preschool education and Civil defense, basics of medical knowledge and physical education\n\nThe Azerbaijan Teachers` Institute (ATI) and its branches operate in the direction: \n\n\nTotally 1079 employees work in the branches, of which 533 are faculty members. The Institute has 260 employees, of which 119 are faculty members.\n\nThe institute has 3 faculties, 12 departments, a fundamental library, a computer center.\n\nOn August 27, 2011, a memorandum of understanding was signed between Azerbaijan Teachers` Institute and Pakistani University of Punjab. Within the framework of the MoU conferences, training, visits, seminars, etc. are organized, the students of the institutions can exchange their experiences. \n\nIn the same year, on June 23 an academic agreement on organizing teacher exchange and students, training, implementing programs, joining international training was signed between the Azerbaijan Teachers` Institute and Ataturk Universit of Turkey with 43.000 students.\n\nAzerbaijan University of Languages\n\nAzerbaijan State Pedagogical University\n"}
{"id": "1881201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1881201", "title": "Capping stunt", "text": "Capping stunt\n\nA capping stunt or \"capping\" is a New Zealand university tradition of student pranks wherein students perpetrate hoaxes or practical jokes upon an unsuspecting population. They traditionally take place in May during graduation.\n\nCapping stunts have a long tradition in New Zealand, and are a prominent event at and around campuses throughout the country with many notable instances reaching national or local headlines.\n\nThe stunts commonly play on the accepted civil rules of the host city with the local city councils or media as the target. The capping stunts that generate the most media exposure generally involve passive techniques such as letter writing; however, material pranks such as the suspension of inflatable genitals from university property are common.\n\nA frequently referenced stunt is the Victoria University stunt where local workmen were told students dressed as police were planning a fake arrest, while local police were told students dressed as workmen were planning to dig up the road. This stunt encompasses all key elements.\n\nCapping stunts are also carried out in revenge. For example, in 1952 University of Otago students, tired of being misrepresented by the Otago Daily Times, perpetrated a nationwide UFO hoax in order to display the shortcomings of the local paper.\n\nOccasionally capping stunts will prey on other students, particularly those in their first year of study. In May 2004 a Massey University stunt involved staging auditions for extras in Peter Jackson's \"King Kong\". After advertising the auditions in the student newspaper, over 200 students auditioned for a part. Each signed a disclaimer which included \"I also understand that TheatreRecruitment does not guarantee part in any movie, but will endeavor to act in the best interests of entertainment\".\n\nThe most notable recent suspected capping stunt was the Waiheke Island foot and mouth disease threat of May 2005, which was suspected to be a stunt by Massey University in Palmerston North. A letter was sent to Prime Minister Helen Clark stating that the disease had been released onto the island. Police said that the letter came from the Manawatu Region, and coincided with graduation week.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3062716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3062716", "title": "Centre for Manx Studies", "text": "Centre for Manx Studies\n\nThe Centre for Manx Studies () is a department of the School of Archaeology, Classics and Egyptology in the University of Liverpool whose focus is the study of the Isle of Man, the Manx language, and Manx culture and history.\n\nThe primary functions of the Centre for Manx Studies are: to teach undergraduate and postgraduate students; to carry out archaeological, cultural, environmental and historical research of international significance on the Isle of Man; to further the international recognition of the Isle of Man in these subjects. In addition to postgraduate research degrees, the Centre offers a full-time and a part-time master's degree in Manx Studies and a full-time Diploma in Manx Studies.\n\nFounded in 1992, the Centre for Manx Studies was managed by a committee which included representatives from the three partner organizations: the University of Liverpool, the Isle of Man Department of Education, and Manx National Heritage. Originally located near the Manx Museum in the Manx capital city of Douglas, the Centre for Manx Studies relocated in September 2009 to a newly refurbished stable block at the Nunnery estate south of Douglas.\n\nIn July 2015 the Centre for Manx Studies moved its base off the Isle of Man to the University of Liverpool's main campus: announcing this measure in April 2015, Fiona Beveridge - executive pro-vice-chancellor for Humanities and Social Sciences - stated: \"Given the withdrawal of support by the Manx Government, we have decided that we can no longer sustain the Centre on the Isle of Man. We remain committed to high quality archaeological research across the UK and Ireland and our work in this area on the Isle of Man, for example on Iron Age settlements and WW1 sites, will continue. The Isle of Man is an excellent base to teach archaeological techniques to students and we will continue to undertake field school activities on the island.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "34342248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34342248", "title": "Chilean battleship Capitán Prat", "text": "Chilean battleship Capitán Prat\n\nCapitán Prat was a unique ironclad battleship of the Chilean Navy built in the late 1880s and completed in 1890. Armed with a main battery of four guns in four single turrets, \"Capitán Prat\" was the first battleship in the world to be equipped with an electrical system. She was built in the La Seyne dockyard in France, and commissioned into the Chilean fleet in 1891. Foreign navies tried to purchase the ship twice before the outbreak of wars, including an American attempt in 1898 and a Japanese offer in 1903.\n\n\"Capitán Prat\" served in the fleet for about ten years, until she was disarmed in accordance with a treaty signed with Argentina intended to stop a naval arms race between the two countries. The ship returned to service, however, and remained on active duty with the fleet until 1926, when she was reduced to a coastal defense ship. In 1928–1930, she was used as a submarine tender, and in 1935, she was disarmed and used as a training ship for engineers. She remained in the Navy's inventory until 1942, when she was sold for scrap.\n\n\"Capitán Prat\" was long between perpendiculars and had a beam of . She displaced and had a draft of . Her hull was steel-built, with wood and copper sheathing, and was equipped with a ram bow. The ship mounted two masts, both with fighting tops. She had a crew of 480 officers and enlisted men.\n\nShe was powered by a pair of horizontal expansion engines that were supplied with steam by five cylindrical boilers. The boilers were trunked into two funnels on the centerline. Her propulsion system was rated at for a top speed of . She was designed to carry of coal, though she could carry up to . She was the first battleship of any navy to utilize electricity to power machinery.\n\nThe ship was armed with a main battery of four /35 caliber guns in single, electrically powered turrets. One was placed forward, on the centerline, two were mounted amidships, and the fourth was located aft of the superstructure on the centerline. Her secondary battery consisted of eight guns in four twin turrets; they were mounted on either side of the foremast and mainmast. Close-range defense against torpedo boats was provided by a battery of six 6-pounder guns, four 3-pounder guns, and ten 1-pounder guns. She was also armed with four torpedo tubes in deck-mounted launchers. One was in the bow, another in the stern, and two on the broadside.\n\nThe ship's armor consisted of Creusot steel. Her armored belt was thick amidships above the waterline, and below. Above the waterline, the belt was reduced to forward and aft. The belt was below the waterline, on either end of the ship. The belt extended for above the waterline and below. The citadel was thick and protected the ship's machinery spaces amidships. It extended to the upper deck and was closed on either ends by bulkheads thick. Outside the citadel, the deck was protected by thick armor. The barbettes for the main battery guns were thick, with thick hoods to protect the gun crews. The conning tower had thick sides.\n\nOn 22 August 1887, the National Congress of Chile passed a law authorizing the construction of new vessels to modernize the fleet. As part of this, they decided to order a new battleship from a foreign shipyard. The contract for constructing the new Chilean battleship was advertised throughout the European shipyards, and was sought by British, German, and French shipbuilders. The contract for \"Capitán Prat\" was awarded to the \"Société Nouvelle des Forges et Chantiers de la Méditerranée\" shipyard in La Seyne, France on 18 April 1889. The cost of the ship was agreed at £391,000, and she was laid down in 1889. The ship was launched on 20 December 1890, commissioned into the Chilean fleet in 1891, and arrived in Chile in May 1893. \"Capitán Prat\" received favorable reviews from contemporary naval critics, as she was seen as a prime example of combining a high speed with good armament and armor protection. She was also heralded as \"the most powerful war ship possessed by any South American Government ... [and] any vessel at present in commission in the United States Navy.\"\n\nThe construction of the ship helped begin a naval arms race between Chile and Argentina. In addition to \"Capitán Prat\", the Chilean Navy ordered two new protected cruisers and a pair of torpedo boats. Argentina responded with the battleships and . The race continued through the 1890s, even after the expensive 1891 Chilean Civil War. The race culminated in the orders for two armored cruisers for the Argentine Navy and two s for the Chilean Navy, though the latter two were purchased by the United Kingdom. The British, concerned over the possibility of war between the two countries, mediated an agreement, which resulted in the Pactos de Mayo. The treaty ended the expensive arms race and stipulated that both countries arrive at an agreement to balance their fleets. The latter led to the demilitarization of \"Capitán Prat\" and two Argentine armored cruisers, though all were later rearmed.\nIn March 1898, shortly before the outbreak of the Spanish–American War, the US Navy attempted to purchase \"Capitán Prat\" to bolster its fleet for the coming conflict with Spain. The negotiations fell through, however, and the ship remained in Chile. By 1903, in the prelude to the Russo-Japanese War, the Japanese government looked into purchasing \"Capitán Prat\" and the cruiser \"Esmeralda\", along with other South American warships. \"Esmeralda\" was eventually purchased and commissioned into the Imperial Japanese Navy as \"Izumi\". By 1907, the ship was seen as outmoded in comparison to newer armored cruisers in the fleet. In 1909–1910, the ship was modernized, which included the installation of twelve new Babcock & Wilcox watertube boilers in place of the old cylindrical boilers, increasing the ship's top speed to . The height of her funnels was also increased.\n\nOn 11 March 1916, \"Capitán Prat\" suffered a magazine explosion while she was anchored in port in Valparaiso. Two cases of bad cordite propellant in the aft main battery magazine exploded. The construction of the ship, however, which provided a quick venting of the explosion, and defects in the propellant cases that allowed the explosive gasses to escape easily, saved the ship from destruction. The cordite was by that time 17 to 20 years old, about the maximum life-span of the propellant. By 1926, \"Capitán Prat\" was reduced to a coast defense ship. From 1928 to 1930, the ship was designated as a submarine tender for Chile's H and submarines. She was disarmed in 1935 to serve with the mechanical training school. The old battleship was ultimately sold for scrap in 1942.\n\n"}
{"id": "39223669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39223669", "title": "Class, Bureaucracy, and Schools", "text": "Class, Bureaucracy, and Schools\n\nClass, Bureaucracy, and Schools: The Illusion of Educational Change in America is a 1971 book by American historian Michael B. Katz. The book focuses on the history of education in the United States between 1800 and 1885 in public elementary schools, and follows their transition from one-room schools to centralized, bureaucratic school systems. The book was revised and expanded in 1975.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42035866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42035866", "title": "Collection manager", "text": "Collection manager\n\nA collection manager ensures the proper care and preservation of objects within cultural institutions such as museums, libraries, and archives. Collection managers, along with registrars, curators, and conservators, play an important role in collections care. Collection Managers and Registrars are two distinct collection roles that are often combined into one within small to mid-size cultural institutions. Collection Managers can be found in large museums and those with a history and natural history\nfocus whose diverse collections require experienced assessment to properly sort, catalog, and store artifacts. A collection manager may oversee the registrar, archivist, curator, photographer, or other collection professionals, and may assume the responsibilities of these roles in their absence within an organization.\n\nCollection managers are responsible for the long-term preservation of collections. They oversee the physical care of objects and form the hands-on problem-solving component of a collections team. Collection managers work collaboratively with registrars, who are document-oriented and responsible for risk management of the collection. \nRegistrars maintain facility reports, contracts, and legal records associated with acquisitions, inventory, incoming and outgoing loans, shipping, and insurance. They must keep current with national and international regulations and procedures as they work with custom agents and brokers to acquire security, custom permits, insurance coverage, government indemnity, and requests for immunity from judicial seizure.\n\nCollection managers work in cooperation with curators, registrars, conservators, art handlers, exhibit fabricators, mount makers, facilities managers, security, and housekeeping. They are responsible for establishing and maintaining high standards of collections care, from acquisition to conservation to display. Depending on the institution, collection managers may by tasked with drawing up a departmental budget, providing expenditure projections, and if necessary, raising funds in the form of grant writing.\n\n\nThere are specific skills, abilities, and areas of knowledge necessary for collection managers. All collection managers must be skilled in object handling, able to accurately identify objects, artifacts, and specimens within their institution's collection, and have knowledge of preventative conservation methods and procedures. It is essential that collection managers are educated about the organization, arrangement, and nomenclature of objects, artifacts, and specimens in their field of interest. Collection managers also need to be knowledgeable about collection management software for cataloging and record keeping.\n\nMost institutions require collection managers to have an undergraduate degree in their specialty area such as art, history, or archeology. According to the Bureau of Labor and Statistics, from 2012 - 2022 archivists, curators, and museum workers \"should expect very strong competition for jobs\" with a projected growth rate of only 11 percent. In this competitive field, a master's degree in the institution's area of focus, museum studies, or library/information science is preferred.\n\nInternships and volunteer work in libraries, museums, and archives is the best way to acquire hands-on collection management experience. Whether paid or unpaid, experience with object/artifact handling, processing, cataloging, preservation, packing, storage, inventory, fabrication, and collection management software is essential. Experience or training in conservation would be an added bonus, especially to small museums with limited resources.\n\nThere are numerous professional organizations of interest to collection managers and other museum professionals. These organizations provide opportunities to network, share information, and participate in continuing education. \n\nIn small to mid-size museums, collection managers might be referred to as \"registrar,\" or the curator might be in charge of object care and record keeping.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8089530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8089530", "title": "Comenius University, Faculty of Natural Sciences", "text": "Comenius University, Faculty of Natural Sciences\n\nThe Faculty of Natural Sciences (FNS) (Slovak: \"Prírodovedecká Fakulta\" (PriF UK)) is a faculty of the Comenius University in Bratislava.\n\nEfforts to establish the Faculty of Natural Sciences in Slovakia during the interwar period were not successful. After split of the Czechoslovakia into the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia and the Slovak Republic and disposal of Czech higher education, Slovak students had no more science colleges available. The Natural Sciences Faculty of Slovak University (former name of Comenius University in Bratislava) was founded in 1940 and education in the first semester started in autumn 1940/1941. Faculty become independent from the Faculty philosophy of the then Slovak University, where some science subjects were previously taught. The first Dean was the František Valentin. From the beginning it consisted of Botanical and Geographical institute, the institute also Zoology and Comparative Anatomy. Several subjects as mathematics, physics and chemistry, were taught in the lecture hall of Slovak technical college. In the 1941 Geological Institute was added. A year later Mineralogical and Petrographic Institute was established. Both working in makeshift conditions without sufficient qualified staff. In the winter semester of 1942/1943 Institute of Nuclear Physics was added to the faculty and in 1944, Astronomical Institute and Institute of Mathematics were established. Only science without a separate department until 1948 was the chemistry. In the 1950 former institutes were organized into the departments. In 1980, Faculty of Mathematics, Physics and Informatics was separated from the Natural Sciences Faculty.\n\nIndividual departments were formerly housed in several buildings in the center of Bratislava. From 1960s to 1987 five pavilion complex was built in the Mlynská Dolina Valley in the Bratislava for purposes of the Faculty. Apart from them, faculty has buildings of the Botanical garden, Department of Botany and a Biological research station at Šúr.\n\nThe Natural Sciences faculty is divided up into the following sections:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6979740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6979740", "title": "Conceptual clustering", "text": "Conceptual clustering\n\nConceptual clustering is a machine learning paradigm for unsupervised classification developed mainly during the 1980s. It is distinguished from ordinary data clustering by generating a concept description for each generated class. Most conceptual clustering methods are capable of generating hierarchical category structures; see Categorization for more information on hierarchy. Conceptual clustering is closely related to formal concept analysis, decision tree learning, and mixture model learning.\n\nConceptual clustering is obviously closely related to data clustering; however, in conceptual clustering it is not only the inherent structure of the data that drives cluster formation, but also the Description language which is available to the learner. Thus, a statistically strong grouping in the data may fail to be extracted by the learner if the prevailing concept description language is incapable of describing that particular \"regularity\". In most implementations, the description language has been limited to feature conjunction, although in COBWEB (see \"\" below), the feature language is probabilistic.\n\nA fair number of algorithms have been proposed for conceptual clustering. Some examples are given below:\n\n\nMore general discussions and reviews of conceptual clustering can be found in the following publications:\n\n\nThis section discusses the rudiments of the conceptual clustering algorithm COBWEB. There are many other algorithms using different heuristics and \"category goodness\" or category evaluation criteria, but COBWEB is one of the best known. The reader is referred to the bibliography for other methods.\n\nThe COBWEB data structure is a hierarchy (tree) wherein each node represents a given \"concept\". Each concept represents a set (actually, a multiset or bag) of objects, each object being represented as a binary-valued property list. The data associated with each tree node (i.e., concept) are the integer property counts for the objects in that concept. For example, (see figure), let a concept formula_1 contain the following four objects (repeated objects being permitted). \n\nThe three properties might be, for example, codice_5. Then what is stored at this concept node is the property count codice_6, indicating that 1 of the objects in the concept is male, 3 of the objects have wings, and 3 of the objects are nocturnal. The concept \"description\" is the category-conditional probability (likelihood) of the properties at the node. Thus, given that an object is a member of category (concept) formula_1, the likelihood that it is male is formula_3. Likewise, the likelihood that the object has wings and likelihood that the object is nocturnal or both is formula_4. The concept description can therefore simply be given as codice_7, which corresponds to the formula_1-conditional feature likelihood, i.e., formula_6.\n\nThe figure to the right shows a concept tree with five concepts. formula_7 is the root concept, which contains all ten objects in the data set. Concepts formula_1 and formula_9 are the children of formula_7, the former containing four objects, and the later containing six objects. Concept formula_9 is also the parent of concepts formula_12, formula_13, and formula_14, which contain three, two, and one object, respectively. Note that each parent node (relative superordinate concept) contains all the objects contained by its child nodes (relative subordinate concepts). In Fisher's (1987) description of COBWEB, he indicates that only the total attribute counts (not conditional probabilities, and not object lists) are stored at the nodes. Any probabilities are computed from the attribute counts as needed.\n\nThe description language of COBWEB is a \"language\" only in a loose sense, because being fully probabilistic it is capable of describing any concept. However, if constraints are placed on the probability ranges which concepts may represent, then a stronger language is obtained. For example, we might permit only concepts wherein at least one probability differs from 0.5 by more than formula_15. Under this constraint, with formula_16, a concept such as codice_8 could not be constructed by the learner; however a concept such as codice_9 would be accessible because at least one probability differs from 0.5 by more than formula_15. Thus, under constraints such as these, we obtain something like a traditional concept language. In the limiting case where formula_18 for every feature, and thus every probability in a concept must be 0 or 1, the result is a feature language base on conjunction; that is, every concept that can be represented can then be described as a conjunction of features (and their negations), and concepts that cannot be described in this way cannot be represented.\n\nIn Fisher's (1987) description of COBWEB, the measure he uses to evaluate the quality of the hierarchy is Gluck and Corter's (1985) category utility (CU) measure, which he re-derives in his paper. The motivation for the measure is highly similar to the \"information gain\" measure introduced by Quinlan for decision tree learning. It has previously been shown that the CU for feature-based classification is the same as the mutual information between the feature variables and the class variable (Gluck & Corter, 1985; Corter & Gluck, 1992), and since this measure is much better known, we proceed here with mutual information as the measure of category \"goodness\".\n\nWhat we wish to evaluate is the overall utility of grouping the objects into a particular hierarchical categorization structure. Given a set of possible classification structures, we need to determine whether one is better than another.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29012502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29012502", "title": "Cornell University Programming Language", "text": "Cornell University Programming Language\n\nCornell University Programming Language (also called CUPL) is a procedural computer programming language developed at Cornell University in the late 1960s.\n\nCUPL was based on an earlier Cornell-developed programming language, CORC. It was used to teach introductory computer programming classes.\n\nCUPL was developed by R. W. Conway, W. L. Maxwell, G. Blomgren, Howard Elder, H. Morgan, C. Pottle, W. Riddle, and Robert Walker. CUPL had a very simple syntax similar to BASIC and to PL/I. The processor was designed to offer extensive error correction and diagnostic capabilities. This would allow student programs to execute even if they contained minor syntax errors. The compiler also included spelling correction capabilities so that if a variable name is referenced only once, the compiler would assume that it was a misspelling of some other intended name.\n\nCUPL also offered an extensive set of matrix operations and offered dynamic run-time memory allocation. At the time, Cornell's computer was an IBM System 360 Model 40 with only 64K of core memory. CUPL was able to process a large batch of student programs quickly by remaining resident in core memory, but the compiler occupied 58K of memory, leaving only a small amount for the program code and variable storage.\n\nAdditional computer language projects grew out of CUPL. Most notably, the CUPL compiler was reworked to implement a subset of the PL/I programming language, called PL/C. PL/C retained the diagnostic and error correction features of CUPL. Audio CUPL was an implementation to accept verbal CUPL statements spoken by the programmer. Each programmer trained the system by first speaking a standard set of CUPL vocabulary words for reference. \nAfter that what is pl/c\n\nThere is an implementation of CUPL and CORC in modern C for Unix-like systems that includes both transcriptions of the original manuals and a chrestomathy of programs in these languages. It is available at the Retrocomputing Museum.\n"}
{"id": "5212924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5212924", "title": "Dennis Kavanagh", "text": "Dennis Kavanagh\n\nDennis Kavanagh (born 27 March 1941) is a British political analyst and since 1996 has been Professor of Politics at the University of Liverpool, and now Emeritus Professor. He has written extensively on post-war British politics. With David Butler, he wrote the series of books on British general elections, such as \"The British General Election of 2010\", and most recently, \"The British General Election of 2015\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49096016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49096016", "title": "Do Space", "text": "Do Space\n\nDo Space is a 501(c)(3) non-profit community center for technology, digital library, education, and small makerspace featuring 3D printing technology in Omaha, Nebraska.\n\nDo Space opened in the fall of 2015. Do Space is managed by the non-profit Community Information Trust, which itself is managed by local Omaha philanthropic organization, Heritage Services.\n\nIt is located at the southwest corner of 72nd and Dodge Streets (former Borders Books). The building, which was vacant, required retrofitting and modernization of the existing structure. The project, which dates back to 2014, has included $4.1 million for the purchase of the vacant building and $7 million to renovate and fill the space. The design of the building was done by HDR, Inc. Do Space partners with various organizations, including Metropolitan Community College and Omaha Public Library.\n\nPatrons can use Apple and Windows computers that have office, CAD and graphics programs and can access Omaha Public Library databases while at Do Space. Do Space also has tablets and laptops for use, as well a 3D lab that has 3D printers, 3D scanners, and a laser cutter. There are large-format printers as well as break-out rooms with touch screen bulletin boards. \n\nDo Space provides its services free to the public, except for expendables like printing and 3D materials. There are dedicated spaces for small children, teens, as well as adults. There is a group specifically geared towards seniors that incorporates peer-style information-sharing. Metropolitan Community College holds classes on the second floor. Do Space provides a meeting space to nurture an innovation incubator and various community tech groups meet there. Do Space accessories are use on site and cannot be borrowed beyond its premises.\n\nIn February 2015, Rebecca Stavick, co-founder of the civic hacking group Open Nebraska and former Omaha Public Library librarian, was hired as the Executive Director of Do Space. Michael Sauers, formerly with the Nebraska Library Commission, is the Director of Technology.\n"}
{"id": "16329575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16329575", "title": "EasyChair", "text": "EasyChair\n\nEasyChair is a free web-based conference management software system used, among other tasks, to organise paper submission and review. EasyChair is widely used in the scientific community, with reportedly more than one million users in 2014.\n\nThe EasyChair website also provides an open access online publication service for conference proceedings. When launched, in 2012, the service was for computer science only, but in 2016 it was expanded to all sciences.\n\nThe EasyChair software has been in continuous development since 2002. , the code base consist of nearly 300,000 lines of code, and it has been used by more than 41,000 conferences.\n\nIt is similar to other event management system software such as OpenConf and is hosted by the computer science department of the University of Manchester. It is owned by an English company.\n\n"}
{"id": "286651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286651", "title": "Education in Albania", "text": "Education in Albania\n\nEducation in Albania for primary, secondary, and tertiary levels are mostly supported by the state. The academic year is much similar to that as in the United States, clases starts almost in September or October and end in June or July. Albanian is the language of instruction in all public schools. The education takes place in three stages such as the primary, secondary, and pre-university education. However, there are about 5000 schools throughout the nation.\n\nElementary education is compulsory from grades 1 to 9, but most students continue at least until a secondary education. Students must pass the graduation exams at the end of the 9th grade and also at the end of the 12th grade in order to continue their education. The academic year is divided into two semesters. The school week begins on Monday and ends on Friday. \n\nThe 'School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education)' of Albania is 16 years. The nation ranks 25th out of 167 countries. In 2015, the overall literacy rate in Albania was 98.7%; the male literacy rate was 99.2% and female literacy rate was 98.3%. \n\nAs late as 1945, the literacy rate of the country was raised to about 20%, and in late 1946 the illiteracy rate was 60%. This low percentage was principally because schools using the Albanian language had been practically non-existent in the country before it became independent in 1912. Until the mid-nineteenth century, the Ottoman rulers had prohibited the use of the Albanian language in schools. Turkish was spoken in the few schools that served the Muslim population. These institutions were located mainly in cities and large towns. The schools for Orthodox Christian children were under the supervision of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople. The teachers at these schools usually were recruited from the Orthodox clergy, and the language of instruction was Greek. The first school known to use Albanian in modern times was a Franciscan seminary that opened in 1861 in Shkodër, though there are mentions of Albanian schools by Franciscans since 1638 in Pdhanë.\n\nFrom about 1880 to 1910, several Albanian patriots intent on creating a sense of national consciousness founded elementary schools in a few cities and towns, mostly in the south, but these institutions were closed by the Ottoman authorities. The advent of the Young Turks movement in 1908 motivated the Albanian patriots to intensify their efforts, and in the same year a group of intellectuals met in Monastir to choose an Albanian alphabet. Books written in Albanian before 1908 had used a mixture of alphabets, consisting mostly of combinations of Latin, Greek, and Turkish-Arabic letters.\n\nThe participants in the Monastir meeting developed a unified alphabet based on Latin letters. A number of textbooks soon were written in the new alphabet, and Albanian elementary schools opened in various parts of the country. In 1909, to meet the demand for teachers able to teach in the native tongue, a normal school was established in Elbasan. But in 1910, the Young Turks, fearing the emergence of Albanian nationalism, closed all schools that used Albanian as the language of instruction.\n\nEven after Albania became independent, schools were scarce. The unsettled political conditions caused by the Balkan Wars and by World War I hindered the development of a unified education system. When World War I broke out (1914), Albanian education in Albania was virtually non-existent. Apart from the Turkish educational institutions, the local schools were mostly Greek-, Romanian- and Serbian-speaking:\nThe foreign occupying powers, however, opened some schools in their respective areas of control, each power offering instruction in its own language. A few of these schools, especially the Italian and French ones, continued to function after World War I and played a significant role in introducing Western educational methods and principles. Particularly important was the National Lycée of Korçë, in which the language of instruction was French.\n\nSoon after the establishment of a national government in 1920, which included a ministry of education, the foundation was laid for a national education system. Elementary schools were opened in the cities and some of the larger towns, and the Italian and French schools that had opened during World War I were strengthened. In the meantime, two important American schools were founded: the American Vocational School in Tirana, established by the American Junior Red Cross in 1921, and the American Agricultural School in Kavajë, sponsored by the Near East Foundation. Several future communist party and government luminaries were educated in the foreign schools: Enver Hoxha graduated from the National Lycée in 1930, and Mehmet Shehu, who would become prime minister, completed studies at the American Vocational School in 1932.\n\nIn the 1920s, the period when the foundations of the modern Albanian state were laid, considerable progress was made toward development of a genuinely Albanian education system. In 1933 the Royal Constitution was amended to make the education of citizens an exclusive right of the state. All foreign-language schools, except the American Agricultural School, were either closed or nationalized. This move was intended to stop the rapid spread of schools sponsored directly by the Italian government, especially among Roman Catholics in the north.\n\nThe nationalization of schools was followed in 1934 by a far-reaching reorganization of the entire education system. The new system called for compulsory elementary education from the ages of four to fourteen. It also provided for the expansion of secondary schools of various kinds; the establishment of new technical, vocational, and commercial secondary schools; and the acceleration and expansion of teacher training. The obligatory provisions of the 1934 reorganization law were never enforced in rural areas because the peasants needed their children to work in the fields, and because of a lack of schoolhouses, teachers, and means of transportation.\n\nThe only minority schools operating in Albania before World War II were those for the Greek minority living in the district of Gjirokastër. These schools too were closed by the constitutional amendment of 1933, but Greece referred the case to the International Permanent Court of Justice, which forced Albania to reopen them.\n\nPre-World War II Albania had no university-level education and all advanced studies were pursued abroad. Every year the state granted a limited number of scholarships to deserving high school graduates, who otherwise could not afford to continue their education. But the largest number of university students came from well-to-do families and thus were privately financed. The great majority of the students attended Italian universities because of their proximity and because of the special relationship between the Rome and Tirana governments. The Italian government itself, following a policy of political, economic, military, and cultural penetration of the country, granted a number of scholarships to Albanian students recommended by its legation in Tirana.\n\nSoon after the Italians occupied Albania in April 1939, the education system came under complete Italian control. Use of the Italian language was made compulsory in all secondary schools, and the fascist ideology and orientation were incorporated into the curricula. After 1941, however, when guerrilla groups began to operate against the Italian forces, the whole education system became paralyzed. Secondary schools became centers of resistance and guerrilla recruitment, and many teachers and students went to the mountains to join resistance groups. By September 1943, when Italy capitulated to the Allies and German troops invaded and occupied Albania, education had come to a complete standstill.\n\nUpon taking power in late 1944, the communist regime gave high priority to reopening the schools and organizing the whole education system to reflect communist ideology. The regime's objectives for the new school system were to wipe out illiteracy in the country as soon as possible, to struggle against \"bourgeois survivals\" in the country's culture, to transmit to Albanian youth the ideas and principles of communism as interpreted by the party, and finally to educate the children of all social classes on the basis of these principles. The 1946 communist constitution made it clear that the regime intended to bring all children under the control of the state. All schools were soon placed under state management. At the same time, due to the lack of specialists in many fields of knowledge, a lot of young people were sent abroad to the countries Albania had diplomatic connections with (Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Romania etc.)\n\nThe 1946 Education Reform Law provided specifically that Marxist-Leninist principles would permeate all school texts. This law also made the struggle against illiteracy a primary objective of the new school system. In September 1949, the government promulgated a law requiring all citizens between the ages of twelve and forty who could not read to attend classes in reading and writing. Courses for illiterate peasants were established by the education sections of the people's councils. The political organs of the armed forces provided parallel courses for illiterate military personnel.\n\nIn addition to providing for free seven-year obligatory elementary schooling and four-year secondary education, the 1946 law called for the establishment of a network of vocational, trade, and teacher-training schools to prepare personnel, technicians, and skilled workers for various social, cultural, and economic activities. Another education law adopted in 1948 provided for the further expansion of vocational and professional courses to train skilled and semiskilled workers and to increase the theoretical and professional knowledge of the technicians.\n\nIn the 1950s, the school system was given a thorough Soviet orientation in terms both of communist ideological propaganda and central government control. Secondary technical schools were established along the same lines. In 1951 three institutes of higher learning were founded: the Higher Pedagogic Institute, the Higher Polytechnical Institute, and the Higher Agricultural Institute, all patterned on Soviet models. Most textbooks, especially those dealing with scientific and technical matters, were Soviet translations. Courses for teacher preparation were established in which the Russian language, Soviet methods of pedagogy and psychology, and Marxist-Leninist dialectics were taught by Soviet instructors. A team of Soviet educators laid the structural, curricular, and ideological foundations of the Enver Hoxha University at Tirana (now called University of Tirana), which was established in 1957.\n\nBy 1960 the system of elementary and secondary education had evolved into an eleven-year program encompassing schools of general education and vocational and professional institutes. The schools of general education consisted of primary grades one to four, intermediate grades five to seven, and secondary grades eight to eleven. In October 1960, however, as Soviet-Albanian tensions were reaching the breaking point, the Albanian Party of Labor issued a resolution calling for the reorganization of the whole school system. The resolution's real aim was to purge the schools of Soviet influence and rewrite the textbooks. An additional year was added to the eleven-year general education program, and the whole school system was integrated more closely with industry in order to prepare Albanian youth to replace the Soviet specialists, should the latter be withdrawn, as they eventually were in 1961.\n\nA subsequent reform divided the education system into four general categories: preschool, general eight-year program, secondary, and higher education. The compulsory eight-year program was designed to provide pupils with the elements of ideological, political, moral, aesthetic, physical, and military education. The new system lowered the entrance age for pupils from seven to six, and no longer separated primary and intermediate schools.\n\nSecondary education began with grade nine (usually at age fourteen), and ended with grade twelve. Secondary schools offered four-year general education programs or four-year vocational and professional programs, including industrial, agricultural, pedagogic, trade, arts, and health tracks, among others. Some programs lasted only two years.\n\nThe term of study in the institutes of higher education lasted three to five years, and tuition was also free at this level. Provision was made to expand higher education by increasing the number of full-time students, setting up new branches in places where there were no post-secondary institutes, and organizing specialized courses in which those who had completed higher education would be trained to become highly qualified technical and scientific cadres. All full-time graduate students had to serve a probationary period of nine months in industrial production and three months in military training, in addition to the prescribed military training in school. There were also post-secondary Party schools, such as Lenin Higher Party School, which existed simply to promote the regime's philosophy.\n\nAdult education was provided in the same sequence as full-time schooling for younger students, with two exceptions. First, the eight-year general education segment was noncompulsory, and was compressed into a six-year program that allowed for completion of the first four grades in two years. Second, those who wanted to proceed to higher institutes after completing secondary school had to devote one year to preparatory study instead of engaging in production work, as full-time students did.\n\nOfficial statistics indicated that the regime made considerable progress in education. Illiteracy had been virtually eliminated by the late 1980s. From a total enrollment of fewer than 60,000 students at all levels in 1939, the number of people in school had grown to more than 750,000 by 1987; also, there were more than 40,000 teachers in Albania. About 47% of all students were female. The proportion of eighth-grade graduates who continued with some type of secondary education increased from 39% in 1980 to 73% in 1990, with no village reporting a figure lower than 56%.\n\nA reorganization plan was announced in 1990 that would extend the compulsory education program from eight to ten years. The following year, however, a major economic and political crisis in Albania, and the ensuing breakdown of public order, plunged the school system into chaos. Widespread vandalism and extreme shortages of textbooks and supplies had a devastating effect on school operations, prompting Italy and other countries to provide material assistance. The minister of education reported in September 1991 that nearly one-third of the 2,500 schools below the university level had been ransacked and fifteen school buildings razed. Many teachers relocated from rural to urban areas, leaving village schools understaffed and swelling the ranks of the unemployed in the cities and towns; about 2,000 teachers fled the country. The highly controlled environment that the communist regime had forced upon the educational system over the course of more than forty-six years was finally liberated set for improvement.\nAs in Communism, teacher discipline remains a major problem in the Albanian education system, as teachers resort to violence, while students are expected to simply memorize the assigned material. Furthermore, corruption among teachers is becoming a problem as 'envelopes' and expensive gifts are the norm when faced with important deadlines, such as entry averages, or failing the grade. However, there has been an effort to adopt the Western model whereby the student is at the center of the education system as opposed to the current Eastern model where the teacher holds the dominant role.\nIn the late 1990s, many schools were rebuilt or reconstructed to improve learning conditions. Most of the improvements have happened in the larger cities, such as the capital Tirana. The latter suffers from vast overcrowding of classrooms, resulting in 2 daytime teaching shifts, while heating during the winter is a major problem. The old communist propaganda has been taken out of all school curricula and more emphasis has been put on mathematics, sciences and humanities. The school week was shortened from 6 to a 5-day week. Some of the wealthier schools have begun introducing computers, but many schools still lack basic supplies for laboratory classes.\n\nMeanwhile, private, non-public institutions across all levels have opened up with improved teaching material, staff, and added extra curricular activities but expensive fees. Similar changes have also taken place in the post-secondary level. A number of private universities have been established in different cities of Albania, offering students possibilities of studying in different branches. E-learning programs have begun to be introduced, offering students the possibility of following online courses. However, some post-secondary private institutions have become known as simply \"diploma factories\", as was the case with the granting of a controversial university diploma to the son of famous Italian politician Umberto Bossi. As a result, the Albanian government has closed a dozen of such institutions in an attempt to clamp down on the phenomenon.\n\nBetween 2009 and 2013, the textbook industry was deregulated in an effort to make textbooks more affordable thus offering a wider choice to students and instructors. However, the sector became vulnerable to favoritism and the Albanian education system experienced a decline in quality. It became flooded with texts written by writers without credible credentials resulting in mediocre texts with dubious content. One of them reportedly suggested pupils to fabricate an excuse for not going to school on a given day by mixing chalk with water and drinking it to become ill and skip classes. Other texts made explicit use of profanity.\n\nSince 2013, these texts were banned and more reputable ones from Pearson and Oxford were introduced in an effort to harmonize the Albanian education system with the EU. \nIn recent years, foreign students mainly from Southern Italy are getting enrolled in Italian-affiliated universities in Tirana in the hope of better preparing themselves for entrance exams in Italy's universities.\n\n\n\n\"Much of the material in this article comes from the LOC Area Studies of Albania \"\n\n"}
{"id": "9418683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9418683", "title": "Emil Bisttram", "text": "Emil Bisttram\n\nEmil Bisttram (1895–1976) was an American artist who lived in New York and Taos, New Mexico, and was known for his modernist work.\n\nEmil Bisttram was born in Hungary, near the Romanian border, in 1895. When he was 11 years old, he immigrated with his family to New York City, where they settled in the Lower East Side. He was a talented artist, and after a few years began his schooling at the National Academy of Art and Design, then Cooper Union, Parsons, and The Art Student's League. He began teaching soon after completing school, first at the New York School of Fine and Applied Arts, and then at the Master Institute of the Roerich Museum.\n\nBisttram first visited Taos in the summer of 1930. He later fell in love with the scenery and moved there. In 1931 he won a Guggenheim Fellowship to study mural painting. The fellowship enabled Bisttram to travel to Mexico where he studied mural painting with the world famous muralist Diego Rivera. Numerous mural commissions were to follow throughout his career (the Department of Justice in Washington D.C., The Taos County Courthouse, New Mexico, and the Federal Courthouse in Roswell, New Mexico.) After returning to Taos in 1932, Bistrram started the Heptagon Gallery and the Taos School of Art. In 1938, Bisttram founded the Transcendental Painting Group with Raymond Jonson and several other Santa Fe artists.\n\nIn 1952, Bisttram co-founded the Taos Art Association, and later in 1959 won the Grand Prize for painting at the New Mexico State Fair.\n\nIn 1970, Emil Bisttram served as a judge and monitor for a statewide arts grant competition for art to be placed in the newly constructed County Courthouse building, designed by architect Bill Menningbach of Taos. Ken Drew, a local sculptor, won the competition. Bisttram oversaw the project for the next two years, and in June 1972 Drew completed the installation. Then-Senator Joseph Montoya and other dignitaries from Santa Fe officiated at the dedication ceremonies. In 1975, his birthday, April 7, was declared \"Emil Bisttram Day,\" a New Mexico state holiday.\n\nHis work can be found in the following public collections: \n\n"}
{"id": "15618700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15618700", "title": "Escuela Nacional de Bellas Artes \"San Alejandro\"", "text": "Escuela Nacional de Bellas Artes \"San Alejandro\"\n\nEscuela Nacional de Bellas Artes \"San Alejandro\" is the oldest and most prestigious fine arts school in Cuba. It is located in Marianao, a suburb of Havana. It was founded in 1818 at the \"Convent of San Alejandro\" by the French painter, Jean Baptiste Vermay, who was its first director. It is located today in a monumental building built in the early 1940s.\n\nIt is the educational center with the largest number of years building the teaching on the lands of Latin America, preceded only by the University of Havana. It turned-from a number of changes that occurred in Spain in the 19th century and not surprisingly was felt in the colonies, in the climate of the Constitution of Cadiz of 1812 and enlightened absolutism. It was established by the Royal Patriotic Society and the Royal Consulate of Havana, as the Free School of Drawing and Painting. Its first director, Juan Bautista Vermay, who arrived in Cuba when the Bonaparte empire collapsed, when he was 31 years old.\n\nThe internal life at \"San Alejandro\" is governed by the Board of Directors who in turn appoints the Technical Council, who in turn run the different departments that make up the teaching faculty.\n\nThe Board of Directors consists of the Director and Deputy Director and the Secretaries Speciality Teaching, Education, Health Care-Economic, Business and Education.\n\nThe Technical Board, in turn, is the body responsible for representing the teaching faculty to the Board of Directors. It consists of all deans of each departments. These are the Deans of Drawing, Painting, Engraving, Sculpture, Ceramics, Jewelry, Graphic Arts and Theoretical-Cultural Teachings.\n\nSan Alejandro has exchanges with many schools abroad, including in the UK The Cardinal Wiseman Roman Catholic School. Over the past three years, three exchanges have taken place. The exchanges consisted of the students from Wiseman travelling to Cuba in February, and the Cuban students coming to London in June.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52164329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52164329", "title": "Glass sea creatures", "text": "Glass sea creatures\n\nThe glass sea creatures (alternately called the \"Blaschka sea creatures\", \"glass marine invertebrates\", and \"Blaschka invertebrate models\") are works of glass artists Leopold and Rudolf Blaschka. The spiritual predecessors of the Glass Flowers, the sea creatures were the output of the Blaschkas' successful mail-order business of supplying museums and private collectors around the world with sets of glass models of marine invertebrates.\n\nBetween 1863 and 1880, the Blaschkas – working in Dresden – executed at least 10,000 of these highly detailed glass models, representing some 700 different species.\n\nA number of large collections of the models are held by museums and other academic institutions. Harvard's Museum of Comparative Zoology holds 430 items in its Blaschka Glass Invertebrate Collection and displays about 60 at any given time). while Cornell University has about 570 items in its collection and has restored some 170 of these, with many others in its collection stored at the Corning Museum of Glass in Corning, New York. The largest collection in Europe, of 530 pieces, is at Ireland's Natural History Museum. Other holdings include the Boston Museum of Science; Natural History Museum in London, Redpath Museum of McGill University in Montreal, Natural History Museum in Geneva, and both Trinity College Dublin and University College Dublin in Ireland; Hancock Museum in Newcastle upon Tyne, England; The Grant Museum of Zoology in London, and Aquarium-Museum in Liège, Belgium.\n\nIn 1853, shortly after the death of his father and wife Caroline, the latter to a cholera epidemic, Leopold Blaschka – grief stricken and in need of a vacation – traveled to the United States. En route, however, and the ship was becalmed and lay still upon the sea for two weeks. During this period of forced idleness, Leopold studied and sketched the local marine invertebrate population, intrigued by the transparency of their bodies which was next of kin to the glass his family had long worked. Indeed, Leopold felt a sense of quiet, inspirational, wonder at these luminescent ocean dwellers, a sense which he recorded and has been since translated by a Henri Reiling: \"It is a beautiful night in May. Hopeful, we look out over the darkness of the sea, which is as smooth as a mirror; there emerges all around in various places a flashlike bundle of light beams, as if it is surrounded by thousands of sparks, that form true bundles of fire and of other bright lighting spots, and the seemingly mirrored stars. There emerges close before us a small spot in a sharp greenish light, which becomes ever larger and larger and finally becomes a bright shining sunlike figure.\"\n\nThis sense of wonder would fuel his later work but, in the meantime and upon his return to Dresden, Leopold focused on his family business which was the production the glass eyes, costume ornaments, lab equipment, and other such fancy goods and specialty items that only a master Lampworker could accomplish; plus the task of furthering the training of his son and apprentice (and eventual successor), Rudolf Blaschka. However, like anyone, he did have free time, and his hobby was to make glass models of plants – as opposed to invertebrates. This would, many years later, become a base for the fabled \"Ware Collection of Blaschka Glass Models of Plants\" (otherwise known as the Glass Flowers), but, for the moment, such artistry was naught but an amusing and profitless pastime done between his various commissions. Yet, unsurprisingly given their stunning quality, this amusing hobby – itself born out of seeking consolation in nature upon his wife's death – attracted attention. Aristocratic attention, as it turned out, specifically the eyes of Prince Camille de Rohan who, being something of a naturalist himself, commissioned the Blaschkas to craft 100 glass orchids for his private collection. Naturally the Prince was more than a little impressed by the mastery Leopold's work, and \"between 1860 and 1862, the prince exhibited about 100 models of orchids and other exotic plants, which he displayed on two artificial tree trunks in his palace in Prague,\" a fateful act which brought the skill of the Blaschkas to the attention of another – man whom the Prince had actually once introduced to Leopold: a certain Professor Ludwig Reichenbach.\n\nDirector of the natural history museum in Dresden, Prof. Reichenbach was faced with an annoying yet seemingly unsolvable problem in regards to showing marine life. Land-based flora and fauna was not an issue, for it was a relatively simple matter to exhibit mounted and stuffed creatures such as gorillas and elephants, there lifelike poses attracting and exciting the museums visitors. Invertebrates, however, and by their very nature, posed a problem. In the 19th century the only practiced method of showcasing them was to take a live specimen and place it in a sealed jar of alcohol. This of course killed it but, more importantly, time and their lack of hard parts eventually rendered them into little more than colorless floating blobs of jelly. Neither pretty nor a terribly effective teaching tool, Prof. Reichenbach wanted something more, specifically 3D colored models of marine invertebrates that were both lifelike and able to stand the test of time. And, per remarkably coincidence, in 1863 \"saw an exhibition of highly detailed, realistic glass flowers created by a Bohemian lampworker named Leopold Blaschka.\"\n\nEnchanted by the botanical models and positive that Leopold held the key to ending his own showcasing issue, in 1863 Reichenbach convinced and commissioned Leopold to produce twelve model sea anemones. These marine models, hailed as \"an artistic marvel in the field of science and a scientific marvel in the field of art,\" were a great improvement on previous methods of presenting such creatures: drawings, pressing, photographs and papier-mâché or wax models. and exactly what Prof. Reichenbach needed. Moreover they, at last, provided an outlet for the wonder Leopold had felt all those years ago when observing the phosphorescent ocean life. The key fact, though, was that these glass marine models were, as would soon be acknowledged, \"perfectly true to nature,\" and as such represented an extraordinary opportunity boh for the scientific community and the Blaschkas themselves. Knowing this and thrilled with his newly acquired set of glass sea creatures, Reichenbach advised Leopold to drop his current and generations long family business of glass fancy goods and the like in favor of selling glass marine invertebrates to museums, aquaria, universities, and private collectors. Advice which would prove wise and fateful both economically and scientifically, for Leopold did as the Dresden natural history museum director suggested.\n\nUnlike the eventual Glass Flower, a private commission to a single University's museum, the Blaschka glass sea creatures were a global enterprise; and not just for museums and other such educational institutes, for \"as popular interest in the history and sciences of the natural world burgeoned during the latter half of the 19th century, the sea became particularly alluring. The spread of home aquariums and the advent of deep-sea diving revealed a new frontier, filled with wondrous and unusual creatures.\" In short, for the first time since Darwin, there was great universal interest in the natural world, and it became a sign of culture, of worldliness and sophistication, to exhibit examples of life in one's drawing rooms and parlors. Hence private individuals were after these extraordinary models as well, and the Blaschkas, knowing this and knowing that Reichenbach was correct in that many museums would want them, made a mail-order business out of it. This business was hugely successful and they ended up making and selling a believed 10,000 of glass invertebrates dispersed in a diaspora of shipments all across the globe. Indeed, \"the world had never seen anything quite like the beautiful, scientifically accurate Blaschka models\" and yet they were available via so common a means as mail-order per one's local card catalog; for example, Ward's Natural Science would sell a small glass octopus for approximately $2.50. Not glorious, perhaps, but highly effective, and museums and universities began purchasing them en masse to put on display much as Prof. Reichenbach had – for natural history museums directors the world over had the same marine invertebrate showcasing problem. In short, Blaschka invertebrate models mail-order enterprise succeeded for two reason: 1- there was a huge and global demand; 2- they were the only and best glass artists capable of crafting literally scientifically flawless models. Initially the designs for these were based on drawings in books, but Leopold was soon able to use his earlier drawings to produce highly detailed models of other species, and his reputation quickly spread.\n\nAs Leopold truthfully wrote in an English-language trade catalog (which the Rakow Research Library at The Corning Museum of Glass has thankfully preserved):\"[Models of invertebrate animals] have been purchased by... museums and scholastic establishments in all the quarters of the globe... in New Zealand... in Tokio [sic], Japan... for the Indian Museum in Calcutta... in the United States of America by Professor Ward's Natural Science Establishment in Rochester, New York; for the Museum of Comparative Zoology in Cambridge, Massachusetts; for the Boston Society of Natural History; the University of Cornell; the Wellesley Female College... In Great Britain, Scotland and Ireland, copies have been conveyed to London, Edinburgh and Dublin... In Austria, orders have not only been made for the Imperial Royal Court collection, but also for the universities in Innsbruck, Graz, Czernovitz, and so forth. In Germany, purchases have been made for the universities of Berlin, Bonn, Koenigsberg, Jena, Leipzig, Rostock and many other museums.\" Furthermore, Leopold gradually extended his range of work by studying marine animals from the North Sea, Baltic Sea and Mediterranean, and later constructed an aquarium at his house, in order to keep live specimens from which to model.\n\nYet the fate of the marine invertebrate mail-order business was ultimately to be tied to those bought by Harvard's Museum of Comparative Zoology. At some time after the museum's founding in 1859, a collection of 430 glass sea creatures were purchased by either Professor Louis Agassiz, the first director, or his son and successor Alexander Agassiz. This set was not the largest ever sold and the models were no different from any of the others made by the Blaschkas, but, again, their affect was to be greater than all the rest combined.\n\nParadoxically and in historically circular twist, the reason that the glass sea creatures sold to Harvard were to prove so crucial was because the University would soon, and did, open its new Botanical Museum in 1888. Given in effect a series of empty rooms and invited to make a museum for teaching botany, the first director, Professor George Lincoln Goodale, faced a familiar problem. At that time, Harvard was the global center of botanical study and, as such, Prof. Goodale wanted the best for his students, but the only used method was showcasing pressed and carefully labeled botanical specimens – a methodology that offered a twofold problem: being pressed, the specimens were two-dimensional and tended to lose their color. Hence they were hardly the ideal teaching tools. In fact, Goodale's problem was essentially the same as Reichenbach's had been, but applied to botany rather than marine biology for, in both cases, the practiced method of exhibition robbed the specimens of color and three-dimensional form.\n\nMoreover and also like Prof. Reichenbach, Prof. Goodale first learned of Leopold and Rudolf Blaschkas' skill per an exhibition – that being the glass marine invertebrates belonging to the Museum of Comparative Zoology. And, like Reichenbach, upon seeing the Blaschkas' work Goodale was instantly sure that they held the answer to his showcasing problem. Thus, in yet another direct historical parallel, in 1886 the Blaschkas were approached by Professor Goodale for the sole purpose of finding them, with a request to make a series of glass botanical models for Harvard. Naturally Leopold was initially unwilling as, again, his current business of selling glass marine invertebrates was booming; but, eventually, the famed glass artists agreed to send test-models to the U.S. and, although damaged in customs, the fragments convinced Goodale that Blaschka glass art was a more than worthy educational investment. Thus, with the generous sponsorship of Elizabeth C. Ware and her daughter Mary, the initial contract was signed and dictated that the Blaschkas need only work half-time on the models, thus allowing them to continue their production of the Glass sea creatures. However, in 1890, they and Goodale – acting on behalf of the Wares – signed an updated version that allowed Leopold and Rudolf to work on them (the Glass Flowers) full-time; though some sources describe the agreement as a shift from a 3-year contract to a 10-year one, agreed to once Goodale convinced Mary and her mother of the wisdom in doing so. Regardless, the production and time of the Glass sea creatures was over, their fame as well as the attention of their makers shifting to the Glass Flowers – a project that, fifty years later, ended with the death of Rudolf Blaschka (Leopold having died thirty-nine years earlier).\n\nToday, over a century after their making, the Glass sea creatures live in the shadow of their younger botanical cousins, so much so that many of those well aware of the Glass Flowers have never even heard of them. The fact is that, \"gradually, these glass animals began to disappear, their habitats shifting into dusty closets and museum storage. People began to forget that these incredible glass creations had existed in the first place.\"\n\nWith a collection 700 models bought in 1888, the Corning Museum of Glass boasts the largest known stash of Blaschka sea creatures. Displayed (at least in part) in an exhibition named \"Fragile Legacy\", \"researchers at Cornell are using the collection as a time capsule for seeking out and documenting the creatures still living in our oceans today.\" In addition, Corning's exhibit allows visitors to try their own hands at crafting glass sea slugs as well as view subsequent works inspired by the Blaschkas. The exhibit is open through January 8, 2017. Finally, Corning Museum of Glass has produced a movie entitled Fragile Legacy exploring the related topics of the Glass sea creatures and the living ones they represent.\n\nEven those specimens purchased by Harvard's Museum of Comparative Zoology (MCZ) suffered a degree of neglect; they were not forgotten, but they were scattered much as the quote above describes, across several departments, and it was believed that the University only possessed 60-70 models (rather than the actual 430). Recently Harvard has restored and, to best of their abilities, repaired the Glass sea creatures with the hired and instrumental help of Preservation Specialist and Glass Worker Elizabeth R. Brill of Corning, New York, a marine biologist and daughter of a glass chemist. (Brill later co-authored a book about the Glass sea creatures.) Today they form the Harvard Museum of Natural History \"Sea Creatures in Glass\" display which, when combined with the Glass Flowers, form the largest Blaschka collection on display in the world.\n\nFor a several month period beginning in 2015 and set to end in the early summer of 2016, the HMNH set up a \"temporary display highlighting twenty-seven of the most popular plant models as well as some items from the Blaschka archives\" while the main Glass Flowers exhibit was under renovation. This exhibit was unique because it was the first recorded time that the Glass Flowers have been jointly exhibited with the Glass sea creatures in a major and equal display. The renovation exhibit was dismantled when, on May 21, 2016, the main Glass Flowers exhibit reopened. The Glass sea creatures remained as a permanent exhibit.\n\nIn 1885 Andrew Dixon White, first president of Cornell University, authorized purchase of 570 glass marine invertebrates, \"some of which are on exhibit at Corson Mudd Hall and the Herbert F. Johnson Museum, making Cornell one of the few universities in the world where students and the public can view these wondrous creations.\" However and like so many of their counterpart collections, they were neglected after a time and, in this case, remained forgotten under dust and grit until the latter half of the 20th century. Currently Cornell has restored approximately 170 of the models thus far and \"restoration work will continue as funding allows.\"\n\nThe Natural History Museum branch of the National Museum of Ireland in Dublin was among the Blaschkas' \"earliest customers and initially commissioned 85 glass models, paying the then significant sum of £15. It went on to purchase 530 models from the Blaschkas\" – making it the largest collection of Blaschka Invertebrate Models in Europe Since then, the Dead Zoo, as Ireland's Natural History Museum is sometimes called, \"has undertaken research on the conservation of these delicate objects.\" Noteworthy in that, like Corning, they have forever taken excellent care of the Sea Creatures, the National Museum of Ireland is another center of learning regarding the Blaschkas; a fact proven in that, in 2006, they hosted (alongside University College Dublin) the Dublin Blaschka Congress, \"conceived as a gathering to bring together the diverse scholarly disciplines that are uniquely, if eccentrically, joined in the study of scientific glass models.\" Crucially and naturally, the Congress dealt with the Glass Flowers no less than their older maritime cousins.\n\nIn 2007 the University of Wisconsin–Madison Zoological Museum accidentally uncovered their hitherto forgotten 50-model collection in a \"series of keyholes under the exhibit cases along a first-floor corridor Paula Holahan, one of the curators and the one who made the incredible discovery, correctly states that \"It's not uncommon to find things packed away in any museum that is over 100 years old.\" But, regardless, the years have taken their toll and the specimens, currently too brittle to be publicly displayed, must remain in storage until conservation measures are funded and completed. Sadly though these funds are not materializing, so the museum hopes to one willing to sponsor the restoration before the effects of age become irreversible.\n\nThere is a large display of marine invertebrates and also two models of single cell animals living in fresh water.\n\nMany of the Glass sea creatures are yet to be located; the Leopolds' record books tell where many of the shipments went, yet the condition and current whereabouts of the majority of these collections remains unknown. The original six glass sea anemones purchased by Professor Reichenbach in 1863 as well as the rest of that first collection were destroyed in the Bombing of Dresden in World War II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11059502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11059502", "title": "Harlem Children Society", "text": "Harlem Children Society\n\nHarlem Children Society (HCS) is a non-profit organization that arranges for students from under-resourced and under-served communities to be placed as interns at academic research labs during a summer research program. In addition to the lab experience, students receive a stipend.\n\nParticipating institutions include Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences, New York University, and Columbia University.\n\nStudents undertake their own research, which is presented during a street science fair in their own community, under the guidance of scientists. The students are able to pursue their scientific investigations during the following school semester in an after-school program. Additionally, these students attend weekly lectures on a variety of topics ranging from incorporating science into communities to financing a college education, while also having the option to visit college campuses and to receive help preparing for the SATs.\n\nSatyajit Bhattacharya founded HCS on June 5, 2000. By 2010, the program had expanded to 12 countries, serving more than 750 students. Of their mentees in the United States, as of 2010, 40% are African-American, 26% are of Hispanic descent, and 16% are Native Americans.\n\nHCS aims to increase awareness in the sciences, medicine, engineering and mathematics. It provides an opportunity for under-privileged high school aged students throughout to world succeed academically as well as in all other aspects of their lives.\n\nHCS as of the 2013 serves about 60 students from over 15 schools doing hands-on science research with over 20 mentors in more than 10 reputed institutions. \n\nThe Program has three components: Students and research projects; seminars and training; and local, regional and national professional conferences and community science street fairs. Family involvement and post-program follow-up provide students with support to plan their futures and mediate the transitions----academic, emotional, and social----to college and post-academic pursuits. \n\nDepending on their interests and availability of recruited mentors, students are matched with a mentor willing to commit to the summer program. These students enter the program at the beginning of the summer with an orientation, and spend about eight 25-hour weeks starting their research and some receive training in lab techniques and safety. During the academic year, a fraction of the participating students put in 12–24 hours each month at their internship sites and attend weekly seminars when made available. \n\nA fraction of the students stay committed to the program for at least two years, and are requested to work as part of HCS staff by Bhattacharya as volunteer interns with an unfixed stipend every year. \n\nThe Harlem Children Society has had a number of accomplishments:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9626796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9626796", "title": "Heritage Malta", "text": "Heritage Malta\n\nHeritage Malta () is the Maltese national agency for museums, conservation practice and cultural heritage. Created by the Cultural Heritage Act, enacted in 2002, the national agency replaced the former Museums Department.\n\nOriginally Heritage Malta was entrusted with the management of museums, sites and their collections but in 2005, the agency was also charged with the take over of the former Malta Centre for Restoration to become the national agency responsible for conservation.\n\nAs the national agency responsible for museums, cultural heritage and conservation, Heritage Malta is governed by a Board of Directors appointed by the Minister. The Board is headed by a Chairman and is usually appointed for successive three year terms.\n\nThe logo of Heritage Malta is a white uppercase Ħ on a red square.\nThe H with stroke is a letter found only in the Maltese alphabet.\n\nThe following archaeological sites and historical buildings and structures are under the management of Heritage Malta. All Maltese megalithic temples listed below are inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List.\n\n"}
{"id": "33119354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33119354", "title": "Higher education in Sri Lanka", "text": "Higher education in Sri Lanka\n\nHigher education in Sri Lanka is an optional final stage of formal learning following secondary education. Higher education, also referred to as tertiary education occurs most commonly universities or degree-granting institutions. These may be public universities, public and private degree-granting institutions which award their own degrees or degrees from foreign universities. High visibility issues include limited capacity of public universities to cater for the demand and opposition to private universities from certain segments. \n\nThere are only 15 state universities in Sri Lanka under the direct administration of the University Grants Commission which controls funding and appointments. The prominent ones are University of Colombo, University of Peradeniya, University of Kelaniya, University of Sri Jayawardhenapura University of Moratuwa and University of Ruhuna.\n\nApart from the state universities controlled by the University Grants Commission, there are several other universities administrated directly by several government ministries.\n\nIn recent years, with amendments to the University Act, a few institutes have been given permission to grant their own degrees: The most prominent is the government-owned Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology.\n\nThere are many local and foreign professional bodies active in Sri Lanka such as Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, British Computer Society, Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, etc. There are institutions provide entrance to professions such as the Sri Lanka Law College. \n\nVocational education and training in Sri Lanka are managed by the Tertiary and Vocational Education Commission of the Ministry of Vocational & Technical Training. Training includes course based curriculum at vocational technical training centers and apprenticeship at private or public organizations. Higher education in vocational fields could be archived though several universities. The National Vocational Qualifications Systems in Sri Lanka (NVQSL) provides a structured seven levels of qualifications from Level 1 to Level 7. Vocational education and training is carried out for degree level at the Open University, Sri Lanka and the University of Vocational Technology, as well as at diploma level at 37 technical colleges, Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education and the Sri Lanka School of Agriculture.\n\nThe beginnings of modern higher education in Ceylon commenced in 1870 with the establishment of the Ceylon Medical School, followed by Colombo Law College (1875), School of Agriculture (1884) and the Government Technical College (1893).\n\nThe origins of the modern university system in Sri Lanka dates back to 1921 when a University college, the Ceylon University College was established at the former premises of Royal College Colombo, and was affiliated with the University of London. The college provided courses of study in art and humanities, science and medicine prepared undergraduates for examination at the University of London. \n\nIn 1942 the first university was established in the country was the University of Ceylon which had several campuses island wide, Colombo (established 1942), Peradeniya (established 1949), Vidyodaya (established 1959), Vidyalankara (established 1959) and Katubedda (established 1972). Vidyodaya and Vidayalankara were established under the Vidyodaya and Vidayalankara University Act No 45 of 1958. The University of Ceylon was modelled on the Oxbridge formula, at its inception the university only accommodated 904 students, which later expanded to cover a number of universities and it remained as an elite-oriented university as stated by Sir Ivor Jennings, catering to a small number of students and exclusively residential. It was dissolved in 1972 to establish the University of Sri Lanka. In 1974 the Jaffna campus was added to the University of Sri Lanka.\n\nThe change of the government in July 1977 led to dismantling of the single university apparatus with the plan of establishing independent universities. With the promulgation of the Universities Act. No 16 of 1978, state university status was restored to the six separate campuses. The University Grants Commission (UGC) was also created to plan and coordinate the state university education. After that, a number of state universities were created. All these state universities are registered under the University Grants Commission, but a few come under the auspices of ministries other than the Ministry of Higher Education, in which the UGC is a part of. Most of the state universities depend on funds given by the University Grants Commission, as it is their primary and sometimes only source of funding. Therefore, the UGC has a direct control over these universities and administer the undergraduate intake. The UGC is subordinate to the Ministry of Higher Education.\n\nUniversities in the Sri Lanka have generally been instituted by Special Presidential Decree, University Orders, Acts of Parliament and the Higher Education Act 1978.\n\n\n\nUndergraduate education in state universities is free but entrance is extremely competitive, limited and un-standardized. Fewer than 16% (less than 16,000 students) of those who qualify get admission to state universities and of that only half graduate. Admission to the university system is based on the highly competitive GCE Advanced Level examination. Selection of students is done on the basis of rank order on average Z Scores obtained by candidates at the GCE Advanced Level to replicate a district basis representation. Only the top students from each district get admissions, as appose to their overall island rank.\n\nAll state universities are funded through the government and undergraduate education is free in these universities. All postgraduate education is fee-levied, unless sponsored by the government. Government also provides grants for students through the Mahapola Higher Education Scholarship Trust Fund. \n\nDue to the limited intake into state universities, admissions are based on the student's rank order on average Z Scores obtained by candidates at the GCE Advanced Level to replicate a district basis representation. The top students from urban and rural districts get the chances of having tertiary education. However, top students who got qualified under the minimum Z Scores requirements for admissions from remote districts may get in with relatively lower marks than those from urban districts. As a result, many students who are not granted admission find other means of higher education.\n\nSri Lanka has a large number of unemployed graduates numbering 43,000 in 2017. Low economic growth, limited vacancies in public sector as well as unemployable skill set of graduates who have studied aesthetics subjects, while there is a major shortage of technical knowledge. Calls for reform of the university system has been called for to address these issues and the successive attempt to grant government jobs to these graduates mainly in teaching.\n\nRagging has been widespread in Sri Lankan universities. Certain student groups such as the IUSF uses ragging as a means of attracting a following among students. Student groups claim that ragging served as a social equalizer in the universities, but there have been several student death associated to it.\n\nThe academic standards of Sri Lankan universities have been questioned as they fare extremely low in international rankings with the University of the Colombo ranked 801 in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings and 8 in South Asia.\n"}
{"id": "31311846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31311846", "title": "International Program in Conflict Resolution and Mediation", "text": "International Program in Conflict Resolution and Mediation\n\nThe International Program in Conflict Resolution and Mediation is an interdisciplinary English-language master's degree program offered at Tel Aviv University in Israel. \n\nThe International Program in Conflict Resolution and Mediation, founded in October 2009, teaches students from around the world the fundamentals of conflict resolution. Consisting of three consecutive semesters, the International Program aims to provide students with the insight and skills needed to address the assessment, management, and resolution of conflicts in the international arena.\n\nThe first semester exposes students to a comprehensive survey of conflicts and their resolution from diverse perspectives, including international law, psychology, political science, anthropology and economics. The second and third semesters gives students the chance to choose from a variety of courses according to their interests. Throughout the semesters, special focus is placed on combining practical experience to the theoretical knowledge through interactive teaching, culminating in the intensive mediation workshop taught in smaller groups and through simulations.\n\nAcademic trips are planned throughout the year, visiting various sites around Israel in conjunction with the curriculum. In addition, speakers from the United Nations, the Israeli Foreign Ministry, embassies, NGOs and visiting professors are invited each week to share their experiences and research, and provide students with professional networking opportunities.\n\nCourses reflect the relevant in the field of conflict resolution, in addition to the resources in Israel and the Middle East: core courses on Middle East History and Israeli politics; framing coursework to focus on international approaches; and offering a greater variety of interdisciplinary elective courses.\n\nCourses are taught in the afternoon, four days per week, allowing students to pursue volunteering and internship opportunities, as well as language courses in Hebrew and colloquial Arabic.\n\nInterviews with students and alumni are regularly featured in Israeli and international media.\n\n"}
{"id": "42196850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42196850", "title": "Istituto tecnico economico", "text": "Istituto tecnico economico\n\nIstituto tecnico economico (literally technical economic institute) is a type of secondary school in Italy which is designed to give students the skills to progress to any higher educational institution.\n\nStudents can attend an istituto tecnico economico after successfully completing middle school (\"scuola media\").\n\nThe curriculum is devised by the Ministry of Education and emphasises the link between the economy, administration, management and the law.\n\nThe course is divided into two specializing paths:\n\nThe education given offers both a wide theoretical education and a technical specialization in a specific field of studies (e.g.: economy, humanities, administration, law and accountancy), often integrated with a six months internship in a company, association or university, during the fifth and last year of study.\n\nStudents typically study for five years and attend the school from the age of 14 to 19. At the end of the fifth year all students sit for the \"esame di Stato\", a final examination which gave access to every university course.\n\nA student is called \"studente\" (male) and \"studentessa\" (female) are also in common use. Teachers are known as \"professore\" (male) or \"professoressa\" (female).\n\n"}
{"id": "19816142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19816142", "title": "It4communities", "text": "It4communities\n\niT4Communities (iT4C) is a UK national IT volunteering charity that introduces volunteer IT professionals to charities needing IT help and support.\n\niT4C was set up by the Worshipful Company of Information Technologists, the 100th City of London Livery Company in 2002 and since then has registered over 5,500 IT volunteers and more than 2,500 charities. iT4C has delivered over £3.25 million worth of pro bono IT support to the UK voluntary and community sector thanks to the work of the dedicated volunteers.\n\nSince January 2010 iT4Communities has been a project of AbilityNet, the national computing and disability charity.\n\niT4C provides IT support to all UK charities, voluntary and community groups, and social enterprises. Organisations contact iT4C to request a volunteer and the iT4C Project Definers discuss their requirements and develop a project definition to publish on the iT4C RSS Feed and in the iT4C search pages accessible to registered volunteers.\n\nThe volunteers can search the opportunities and choose which ones suit them best. They then contact the charity and work together to take the project forward to completion. iT4Communities staff remain on hand throughout the project to offer help, advice and support.\n\niT4C holds an annual National IT Volunteering Awards to celebrate the best and most innovative IT volunteers and IT volunteering projects. The Awards are open to charitable organisations and individuals who have worked together on an IT volunteering project.\n\nThe winning charities each receive £500 prize money and national recognition.\n\nThere are many examples of successful projects available on the website ranging from quick and easy spam projects to longer and more complex database and website development.\n\n"}
{"id": "11905091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11905091", "title": "Kenneth Maryboy", "text": "Kenneth Maryboy\n\nKenneth Maryboy (born May 13, 1961) is an American politician for San Juan County, Utah, and was Navajo Nation Council Delegate. Kenneth is a former San Juan County Commissioner. Maryboy was the third Democrat in a row to have been elected to the Commissioner District 3 position since its inception in 1984 that divided the county into three districts. Kenneth was replaced on the commission in 2015 by Rebecca M. Benally\n\nKenneth Maryboy is the brother of Mark Maryboy who served the Navajo Nation Council Delegates for 16 years and also served as the San Juan County Commissioner for four terms. Kenneth also shares the same Navajo Nation council representation as Davis Filfred, in the Utah Section of the reservation.\n\nHe also works alongside Rebecca M. Benally and the San Juan School Board for the Utah Navajo student curriculum, and Bruce Adams for the San Juan County affairs.\n\nMaryboy was once again reelected during the 2010 National Midterm/Navajo Nation Elections in the positions of San Juan County Commissioner District Three and as a Council Delegate in the newly reduced 24 member Navajo Nation Tribal Council respectively.\n\nAt age 18, he was living with his mother and younger brother on the reservation near Bluff, Utah. They were barely making ends meet on his meager wages as a welder. Although times were rather harsh, Kenneth managed to improve his skills at Welding, as time progressed he learned to Electrician's trade and from there advanced to other markets which were in demand of his skills\n\nLater in life Maryboy, known as a \"Medicine Man\" among people living on land encompassing the Four-Corners Region of the United States, ministers to the physical, mental and spiritual needs of his people. Maryboy bridges the gap between the old ways of the Navajo, and the current life in America.\n\nHe also was routinely desired for a natural another talent, which was an Announcer. During Rodeo seasons he would be asked to announce for many different events and venues.\n\nIn April 1993, KTNN 660 AM, a Navajo Language AM radio station, broadcasting from Window Rock, Arizona, began commentaries for the NBA team, the Phoenix Suns.\n\nKenneth Maryboy, a rodeo announcer, along with the KTNN Sports Director, L.A. Williams did the play-by-play for their first Suns game. This was a first amongst Navajo Broadcasting stations to be affiliated with a Major League Basketball team.\n\nInvoking his own happy childhood memories of the celebration of Christmas at St. Christopher's Mission, Maryboy created a program, the Navajo Santa, to help serve his people with the spirit of Christmas all year long. He adapted the concept of Santa Claus to meet the needs of the Native Americans who are among the most impoverished people in the U.S. The program provides gifts of food, clothing, blankets, and toys, medical care, and other services. He provides hope for everyone served by his joyful program. \n\nA non-profit organization, Navajo Santa was created to bring food, blankets, warm clothing, toys, and other necessities to Navajos in need on the reservation in southeastern Utah. Entirely volunteer supported, Navajo Santa provides an exchange of culture and support between Navajos and non-Navajos.\n\nKenneth is now 49 and commissioner for San Juan County. His solo Christmas Eve visits have grown into an annual Navajo feast with gifts of clothing, tools and toys for over 700 people. Kids who can't make it to the event because they're sick or lack transportation get a personal visit from Kenneth or one of his elves.\n\n\"My grandfather taught me that you learn to be a man and a warrior by sharing and by keeping promises,\" he says.\n\nOn November 18, 2002, Kenneth went to Washington, D.C., to receive the Caring Institute Award, an honor previously given to Mother Teresa, President Jimmy Carter and Rosalynn Carter, and this year to Paul Newman. Other winners include former Senator Bob Dole and Reverend Billy Graham.\n\nIn 2000, Maryboy was elected into the legislative body of Navajo Nation Government as a Navajo Nation Council Delegate for the Mexican Water, Aneth and Red Mesa Chapters. These areas expand the Arizonan and Utahn borders with a constituency of nearly 10,000 people.\n\nUpon election, Kenneth positioned himself in the Navajo Economic Development committee where he serves as the Vice Chair for the Navajo Nation Nation Council.\n\nOn Dec. 15, 2009, Tribal members voted to reduce the Navajo Tribal Council from 88 to 24 members, and the Navajo Nation Supreme Court ordered immediate implementation of the redistricting in a May 28, 2010 decision. With this Navajo Nation-wide action, it resulting in pitting Councilman Maryboy against fellow Councilman, Davis Filfred during the November 2, 2010 General Elections.\n\nCouncilman Maryboy defeated Councilman Filfred for a newly redistricted \"Shiprock Agency\" section on the Navajo Reservation.\n\nKenneth Maryboy \"WINNER\"\n\nTotal Votes by Chapter - 1,114\n\n039 - Aneth Chapter 251\n\n028 - Mexican Water Chapter 173\n\n099 - Red Mesa Chapter 280\n\n031 - TeecNosPos Chapter 230\n\n030 - Sweet Water Chapter 180\n\nDavis Filfred\n\nTotal Votes by Chapter - 1,053\n\n039 - Aneth Chapter 347\n\n028 - Mexican Water Chapter 149\n\n099 - Red Mesa Chapter 261\n\n031 - TeecNosPos Chapter 116\n\n030 - Sweet Water Chapter 180\n\n(Write-in) \"Francis Redhouse\"\n\nTotal Votes by Chapter - 593\n\n039 - Aneth Chapter 151\n\n028 - Mexican Water Chapter 33\n\n099 - Red Mesa Chapter 84\n\n031 - TeecNosPos Chapter 222\n\n030 - Sweet Water Chapter 103\n\n2010 Investigation into Navajo Nation Lawmakers Discretionary Funds\n\nIn October 2010, Navajo tribal officials, were charged in an investigation of slush funds just weeks before the November election. Not Guilty was what was pleaded for the Councilmen charged for fraud, conspiracy and theft.\n\nWashington D.C.-based Special prosecutor Alan Balaran reported results on the investigation in which he filed criminal complaints against current Vice President/President-Elect, Ben Shelly, and at least 77 members of the 88-delegate Council as part of a sweeping investigation into the use of discretionary funds that Davis Filfred and Maryboy were named in as well.\n\nKenneth Maryboy was one of Seventeen Candidates Campaigning for Navajo Nation President, He lost the Primary against Chris Deschnee and Joe Shirley JR., placing fifth with 3,738 Votes.\n\n \nIn November 2006, Kenneth Maryboy was elected as the San Juan County Commissionership for District 3. The commissionership delegates handle county issues in Monticello, Utah. The San Juan County Commissioner seat is a three person council which oversee's the needs and issues for San Juan County's residents.\n\nCommissioner Maryboy won a bid to the Commissionership nomination after an extensive primary battle between himself and Andrew Tso of Montezuma Creek, Utah during the 2010 San Juan County Primaries. \nSan Juan County, Utah\n\nCounty Commission Dist #3\n\nKenneth Maryboy DEM\nBluff\n85\n\nMontezuma Creek\n97\n\nAneth\n69\n\nMexican Hat\n47\n\nRed Mesa\n43\n\nEarly Voting\n1\n\nCanvass\n6\n\nTOTAL\n348\n\nAndrew Tso DEM\n\nBluff\n21\n\nMontezuma Creek\n45\n\nAneth\n77\n\nMexican Hat\n3\n\nRed Mesa\n23\n\nEarly Voting \n4\n\nCanvass\n4\n\nTOTAL\n177\nAfter successfully defeating Andrew Tso, Maryboy went on to be reelected to his particular county office, unopposed, in the 2010 San Juan County General election.\n\nAfter being elected as the San Juan County Commissioner and as the Navajo Nation Council Delegate, questions arose as to the Legitimacy and the Ethical position as an elected official of both seats. Members elected to maintain service to two governments bodies was a hot button issue; Kenneth Maryboy fell exactly in this position which was the subject of concern.\n\nFollowing the October 16, 2007 Navajo Nation Council vote, granting delegates to maintain service as Councilmen & County Representatives, Maryboy to was allowed to maintain his positions as both the San Juan County Commissioner and Navajo Nation Council Delegate for the Aneth, Red Mesa, and Mexican Water Chapters \n\nKenneth Maryboy has to balance his role as a Navajo leader with duties as a San Juan County commissioner, taking office in January. His brother, Mark Maryboy, made history when he was elected in 1986 as the first American Indian county commissioner, also in San Juan, in Utah's history. The county has had one Navajo county commissioner ever since.\n\n\"More than 55 percent of registered voters in San Juan County are Native Americans, and they need to be represented, which is something that maybe Anglo commissioners had not had that perspective before.\" - Bruce Adams (San Juan Commissioner Dist. 1)\n\nHistorically, Utah Navajos were ignored not only by the county and state governments but also by the Navajo Nation.\n\nLocated in the Four-Corners regions of the United States, the narrow Utah strip that is home to 8,000 of the Navajo Nation's 300,000 citizens. San Juan County officials long believed Utah Navajos were primarily the responsibility of the tribe. The Council, on the other hand, held that their Utah kin could fend for themselves after a 1933 federal mandate awarded them 37.5 percent of royalties from the rich oil fields near Aneth on Utah's portion of the reservation.\n\nBut between 1933 and 1990, the Utah Navajo Oil Trust Fund was plundered of $150 million, according to a Utah legislative auditor's report. The Navajos' lawsuit against the state is still pending. The State of Utah is the only state in the Nation administering a trust fund for the benefit of American Indians whose lands are within state boundaries. The Utah Navajos have sought to have a more active role in the distribution of the royalties and this would present that opportunity. Legislative leadership has committed to provide a way to make the transition process as seamless as possible for the beneficiaries.\n\nTrust Fund to Sunset\n\nCurrently since, Utah's Navajo Trust Fund statute is set to sunset in 2008. Utah Governor Jon Huntsman and Legislative Leadership in 2007 have joined together in asking Congress to create a new disbursement system for the royalties. The Utah Legislative leadership are now actively working with the Utah Navajo Element in regards to controlling of these royalties. \n\nUtah Senate Minority Leader Mike Dmitrich saying \"Our congressional delegation must create a vehicle to distribute these monies in a way that all of the Chapter Houses have input.\"\n\nKenneth Maryboy and Davis Filfred have been active in the Utah Navajo Trust fund as well as helping the transition between Utah's Primary role in control the Utah Navajo Trust to the Utah Navajos themselves.\n\nAccording to Kenneth's he feels his position and mission for his constituents are to help bring basic services to the people in his district. In fact, the Navajo Nation services which are not on the Utah side of the reservation include:\n\n• Navajo Division of Public Safety Locations: 30 in Arizona, 13 in New Mexico\n\n• Emergency Medical Services: 9 in Arizona, 4 in New Mexico\n\n• Fire and Rescue Services: 6 in Arizona\n\n• Criminal Investigation Section: 5 in Arizona, 2 in New Mexico\n\n• Corrections: 4 in Arizona, 3 in New Mexico\n\n• Victim Assistance: 2 in Arizona, 2 in New Mexico\n\n• Police Districts: 4 in Arizona, 2 in New Mexico\n\n• Office of Chief Prosecutors: 3 in Arizona, 4 in New Mexico\n\n\"No Navajo Nation Health, Education and Welfare offices are in Utah:\"\n• Division of Health: 22 in Arizona, 11 in New Mexico\n\n• Navajo Area Agency on Aging: 4 in Arizona, 2 in New Mexico\n\n• Behavioral Health Services: 4 in Arizona, 2 in New Mexico\n\n• Communicable Disease Program: 5 in Arizona, 2 in New Mexico\n\n• Food Distribution Program: 5 in Arizona, 3 in New Mexico\n\n• WIC Program: 4 in Arizona, 2 in New Mexico\n\n• Division of Dine Education: 17 in Arizona, 8 in New Mexico\n\n• Office of Dine Youth: 4 in Arizona, 2 in New Mexico,\n\n• Dept. of Head Start: 4 in Arizona, 2 in New Mexico\n\n• Office of Special Education/Rehabilitation: 5 in Arizona, 2 in New Mexico\n\n• Office of Scholarship/Financial Assistance: 4 in Arizona, 2 in New Mexico\n\n• Division of Social Services: 12 in Arizona, 9 in New Mexico\n\n• Regional Offices: 5 in Arizona, 3 in New Mexico\n\n• Sub Offices: 7 in Arizona, 6 in New Mexico\nRecently Counsel Delegates Kenneth Maryboy, Davis Filfred, and Former Counsel Delegate Mark Maryboy have been actively working to ensure that the Aneth Oil Royalties stay with the Utah Navajo people.\n\nHowever such causes are not without competition, the Navajo Nation itself has been working counter to the Utah Navajo people in taking over the Aneth Oil Revenues. It presents a significant problem with a line of issues Kenneth is up against.\n\nOn June 16, 2008, Kenneth Maryboy, Mark Maryboy, Davis Filfred, and the honorable Phil Lyman of Blanding, Utah will travel to Washington, D.C. to present a working model of how an easy transition from the State of Utah handling Utah Navajo royalty money, to a functioning Utah Navajo organization before Congress.\n\nAlso, December 8, 2009, The U.S. Senate Indian Affairs Committee conducted two hearings that Wednesday morning. The back-to-back hearings which took place in Room 628 Dirksen Senate Office Building, in Washington, D.C.\n\nThe first hearing was on Senate Bill 1690 , which would transfer trustee authority and resources for the Utah Navajo Trust Fund from the state of Utah to the Utah Dineh Corporation Inc. The second hearing is an oversight hearing to examine the chronic backlog of Indian land transaction decisions at the Interior Department. The backlog effectively blocks many tribes from using their lands, often for years, until those decisions are made. \n\nLocally, the biggest issue is an emotional tussle over a trust fund that holds royalties from oil and gas leases in and around Aneth. That fund's assets doubled to more than $52 million this year when Utah agreed to settle a lawsuit over alleged abuses during the decades that the state oversaw it.\n\nUtah gave up its oversight role two years ago, and no projects to benefit the Utah Navajos — many of whom have no electricity or running water — can be initiated until Congress picks a new trustee. The Navajo Nation, which receives 62.5 percent of the royalties, wants control of the whole fund.\n\n\"Hell no,\" says Kenneth Maryboy, one of the council candidates and a San Juan County commissioner. \"Keep the money in Utah.\"\nOil fund at center of Utah Navajo Nation Council election\n\nOn Jan. 27, 2009, A Navajo delegation attended Indian Caucus Day. Utah Navajo Delegates Maryboy and Davis Filfred attended the Indian Caucus Day at the Utah State Capitol to advocate on behalf of Navajo constituents living in the state of Utah.\n\nElected leaders from the Utah's five tribes met with former Utah State Gov. Jon M. Huntsman Jr., Gov. Gary R. Herbert, Attorney General Mark Shurtleff and a number of program directors to emphasize the importance of maintaining adequate funding for programs which provide direct services to tribal citizens.\n\nThestate of Utah announced major budgetary problems for the upcoming fiscal year and has proposed possible cuts of 15 percent for state agencies. At the caucus, tribal leaders urged Utah state leaders to recognize the limitation in state services currently available to Utah tribes and asked for specific programs to be maintained, despite the economic challenges faced by the state.\n\nKenneth Maryboy went on to state, \"\"With proposed budgetary cuts, it is important as tribal leaders that we are clear about what state programs we believe are most important to retain. It is also pertinent we are clear about what our goals are in terms of strengthening state and tribal relations\".\" \n\nCurrently, although politics does take up much of Kenneth's time, he has found hobbies and activities to help balance out the fast pace public service life. With his family collectively joining him, Kenneth spends time with ATVs and hunting as a side passion. The Maryboy family is quite closely involved with many outdoor racing venues such as mudbogging and drag racing. In fact the Maryboy family runs a racing club called Whiterock Racing.\n\nAs with most Western Democrats, Kenneth enjoys a sustaintial amount of time utilizing his time with taking advantage of the immensely rural southwestern environment with such activities like hunting and fishing. The southern Utah area is filled with a variety of outdoor activities for most people who reside in the area and Kenneth maintains that tradition as most Utans do.\n\nMany southern Utahns enjoy the offers that Lake Powell has to provide. Kenneth and his family enjoy the many opportunities that the lake does provide that many other Utahns and \"Southwestern\" Americans take advantage of as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12777107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12777107", "title": "Lisa Ullmann", "text": "Lisa Ullmann\n\nLisa Ullmann (17 June 1907, in Berlin – 25 January 1985, in Chertsey) was a German-British dance and movement teacher, predominantly remembered for her work in association with dance pioneer Rudolf Laban.\n\nUllman was born in Berlin in 1907. She was intending to be a painter but at the suggestion of her father she studied dance at the Berlin Laban School which was run by Hertha Feist. There she joined the movement choir and heard Rudolf Laban talk., graduating in 1929. She taught in Nuremberg and at the Essen Folkwang School, where she worked for Kurt Jooss. She left Nazi Germany in 1933 and went to England with Jooss and his company. In 1935 she established at Plymouth the first movement choir in the country, under the auspices of the Workers' Educational Association. She taught at Dartington Hall until 1940, lectured regularly and choreographed extensively. Rudolf Laban also left for Britain, and for twenty years (1938–58) Ullmann was his long-term partner and the main collaborator in his dance work. She was cofounder of the Laban Art of Movement Guild in 1945, now known as The Laban Guild for Movement and Dance. In 1946 she also cofounded the Art of Movement Studio in Manchester, which became the centre for educational dance in England. The curriculum was based on Laban's space harmonies and his theories of the exploration of expressive movement through effort patterns. She was also responsible for revising several books written by Laban and for cataloguing the Laban Archives. She was still teaching up until the year of her death, imparting her expert knowledge of Laban's theories in courses run by LInC (Laban International Courses).\n\nThere is a Lisa Ullmann Travelling Scholarship Fund (Registered Charity No: 297684). Set up 1987, this fund awards travel scholarships with the aim of \"Supporting individual journeys in movement and dance\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15840392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15840392", "title": "List of universities in Kosovo", "text": "List of universities in Kosovo\n\nThis is a list of universities in Kosovo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47293", "title": "Master of Business Administration", "text": "Master of Business Administration\n\nThe Master of Business Administration (MBA or M.B.A.) degree originated in the United States in the early 20th century when the country industrialized and companies sought scientific approaches to management. The core courses in an MBA program cover various areas of business such as accounting, applied statistics, business communication, business ethics, business law, finance, managerial economics, management, entrepreneurship, marketing and operations in a manner most relevant to management analysis and strategy.\n\nMost programs also include elective courses and concentrations for further study in a particular area, for example accounting, finance, and marketing. MBA programs in the United States typically require completing about sixty credits, nearly twice the number of credits typically required for degrees that cover some of the same material such as the Master of Economics, Master of Finance, Master of Accountancy, Master of Science in Marketing and Master of Science in Management.\n\nThe MBA is a terminal degree and a professional degree. Accreditation bodies specifically for MBA programs ensure consistency and quality of education. Business schools in many countries offer programs tailored to full-time, part-time, executive (abridged coursework typically occurring on nights or weekends) and distance learning students, many with specialized concentrations.\n\nThe first school of business in the United States was The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania established in 1881 through a donation from Joseph Wharton. In 1900, the Tuck School of Business was founded at Dartmouth College conferring the first advanced degree in business, specifically, a Master of Science in Commerce, the predecessor to the MBA.\n\nThe Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration established the first MBA program in 1908, with 15 faculty members, 33 regular students and 47 special students. Its first-year curriculum was based on Frederick Winslow Taylor’s scientific management. The number of MBA students at Harvard increased quickly, from 80 in 1908, over 300 in 1920, and 1,070 in 1930. At this time, only American universities offered MBAs. Other countries preferred that people learn business on the job.\n\nOther milestones include:\n\nThe MBA degree has been adopted by universities worldwide in both developed and developing countries.\n\nBusiness school or MBA program accreditation by external agencies provides students and employers with an independent view of the school or program's quality, as well as whether the curriculum meets specific quality standards. The three major accrediting bodies in the United States are:\n\nAll of these groups also accredit schools outside the US. The ACBSP and the IACBE are themselves recognized in the United States by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA). MBA programs with specializations for students pursuing careers in healthcare management also eligible for accreditation by the Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education (CAHME).\n\nUS MBA programs may also be accredited at the institutional level. Bodies that accredit institutions as a whole include:\n\nAccreditation agencies outside the United States include the Association of MBAs (AMBA), a UK-based organization that accredits MBA, DBA and MBM programs worldwide, government accreditation bodies such as the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), which accredits MBA and Postgraduate Diploma in Management (PGDM) programs across India. Some of the leading bodies in India that certify MBA institutions and their programs are the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and the University Grants Commission (UGC). A distance MBA program needs to be accredited by the Distance Education Council (DEC) in India. The Council on Higher Education (CHE) in South Africa, the European Foundation for Management Development operates the European Quality Improvement System (EQUIS) for mostly European, Australian, New Zealand and Asian schools, the Foundation for International Business Administration Accreditation (FIBAA), and Central and East European Management Development Association (CEEMAN) in Europe.\n\nFull-time MBA programs normally take place over two academic years (i.e. approximately 18 months of term time). For example, in the Northern Hemisphere they often begin in late August or early September of year one and continue until May or June of year two, with a three to four month summer break in between years one and two. Students enter with a reasonable amount of prior real-world work experience and take classes during weekdays like other university students. A typical full-time, accelerated, part-time, or modular MBA requires 60 credits (600 class hours) of graduate work.\n\nAccelerated MBA programs are a variation of the two-year programs. They involve a higher course load with more intense class and examination schedules and are usually condensed into one year. They usually have less down time during the program and between semesters. For example, there is no three to four-month summer break, and between semesters there might be seven to ten days off rather than three to five weeks vacation. Accelerated programs typically have a lower cost than full-time two-year programs.\n\nPart-time MBA programs normally hold classes on weekday evenings after normal working hours, or on weekends. Part-time programs normally last three years or more. The students in these programs typically consist of working professionals, who take a light course load for a longer period of time until the graduation requirements are met.\n\nEvening (second shift) MBA programs are full-time programs that normally hold classes on weekday evenings, after normal working hours, or on weekends for a duration of two years. The students in these programs typically consist of working professionals, who can not leave their work to pursue a full-time regular shift MBA. Most second shift programs are offered at universities in India.\n\nModular MBA programs are similar to part-time programs, although typically employing a lock-step curriculum with classes packaged together in blocks lasting from one to three weeks.\n\nExecutive MBA (EMBA) programs developed to meet the educational needs of managers and executives, allowing students to earn an MBA (or another business-related graduate degree) in two years or less while working full-time. Participants come from every type and size of organization – profit, nonprofit, government – representing a variety of industries. EMBA students typically have a higher level of work experience, often 10 years or more, compared to other MBA students. In response to the increasing number of EMBA programs offered, The Executive MBA Council was formed in 1981 to advance executive education.\n\nFull-time executive MBA programs are a new category of full-time 1 year MBA programs aimed at professionals with approx. 5 years or more. They are primarily offered in countries like India where the 2-year MBA program is targeted at fresh graduates with no experience or minimal experience. These full-time executive MBA programs are similar to 1 year MBA programs offered by schools like Insead and IMD.\n\nDistance learning MBA programs hold classes off-campus. These programs can be offered in a number of different formats: correspondence courses by postal mail or email, non-interactive broadcast video, pre-recorded video, live teleconference or videoconference, offline or online computer courses. Many schools offer these programs.\n\nBlended learning programs combine distance learning with face-to-face instruction. These programs typically target working professionals who are unable to attend traditional part-time programs.\n\nMBA dual degree programs combine an MBA with others (such as an MS, MA, or a JD, etc.) to let students cut costs (dual programs usually cost less than pursuing 2 degrees separately), save time on education and to tailor the business education courses to their needs. This is generally achieved by allowing core courses of one program count as electives in the other. Some business schools offer programs in which students can earn both a bachelor's degree in business administration and an MBA in five years.\n\nMini-MBA is a term used by many non-profit and for-profit institutions to describe a training regimen focused on the fundamentals of business. In the past, Mini-MBA programs have typically been offered as non-credit bearing courses that require less than 100 hours of total learning. However, due to the criticisms of these certificates, many schools have now shifted their programs to offer courses for full credit so that they may be applied towards a complete traditional MBA degree. This is to allow students to verify business related coursework for employment purposes and still allow the option to complete a full-time MBA degree program at a later period, if they elect to do so.\n\nMany programs base their admission decisions on a combination of undergraduate grade point average, academic transcripts, entrance exam scores, a résumé containing significant work experience, essays, letters of recommendation, and personal interviews. Some schools are also interested in extracurricular activities, community service activities or volunteer work and how the student can improve the school's diversity and contribute to the student body as a whole.\n\nThe Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) is the most prominently used entrance exam for admissions into MBA programs. The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is also accepted by almost all MBA programs in order to fulfill any entrance exam requirement they may have. Some schools do not weigh entrance exam scores as heavily as other criteria, and some programs do not require entrance exam scores for admission. In order to achieve a diverse class, business schools also consider the target male-female ratio and local-international student ratios. In rare cases, some MBA degrees do not require students to have an undergraduate degree and will accept significant management experience in lieu of an undergraduate degree. In the UK, for example an HND or even HNC is acceptable in some programs.\n\nDepending on the program, type and duration of work experience can be a critical admissions component for many MBA programs. Many top-tier programs require five or more years of work experience for admission.\n\nMBA admissions consulting services exist to counsel MBA applicants to improve their chances of getting admission to their desired Business Schools. These services range from evaluating a candidate's profile, GMAT preparation, suggesting the schools to which they can apply, writing and editing essay, conducting mock interviews as preparation for MBA admission interviews, as well as post-MBA career counseling.\n\nIn general, MBA programs are structured around core courses (an essentially standard curriculum) and elective courses that (may) allow for a subject specialty or concentration. Thus, \nin the program's first year (or part), students acquire both a working knowledge of management functions and the analytical skills required for these, while in the second year (part), students pursue elective courses, which may count towards a specialization. (Topics in business ethics may be included at the generalist or specialist level.) After the first year, many full-time students seek internships. The degree culminates with coursework in business strategy, the program capstone. A dissertation or major project is usually a degree requirement after the completion of coursework. Many MBA programs end with a comprehensive exit examination; see below.\n\nFor Executive MBA programs, the core curriculum is generally similar, but may seek to leverage the strengths associated with the more seasoned and professional profile of the student body, emphasizing leadership, and drawing more from the specific experience of the individual students.\n\nPrograms are designed such that students gain exposure to theory and practice alike. Courses include lectures, case studies, and team projects; the mix though, will differ by school and by format. Theory is covered in the classroom setting by academic faculty, and is reinforced through the case method, placing the student in the role of the decision maker. Similar to real world business situations, cases include both constraints and incomplete information. Practical learning (field immersion) often comprises consulting projects with real clients, and is generally undertaken in teams (or \"syndicates\"). The practical elements (as well as the case studies) often involve external practitioners—sometimes business executives—supporting the teaching from academic faculty. (See Business school #Use of case studies and #Other approaches.)\n\nAs above, courses begin with underlying topics and then progress to more advanced functional topics where these are applied; see aside.\n\nThe analytic skills required for management are usually covered initially. The accounting course(s) may treat financial and management accounting separately or in one hybrid course. Financial accounting deals mainly in the preparation of financial statements while management accounting deals mainly in analysis of internal results. Managerial economics is a technical course that mainly focuses on product pricing as influenced by many micro-economic theories and principals, while the aggregate or macro-economics course deals with topics like the banking system, the money supply, and inflation. Operations Research and statistics are sometimes combined as \"Managerial Decision-Making\" or \"Quantitative Decision-Making\"; organizational behavior and human resource management may similarly be combined. In many programs, applicants with appropriate background may be exempt from various of the analytical courses.\n\nAs regards the functional courses, some programs treat the curricula here in two parts: the first course provides an overview, while the second revisits the subject in depth (perhaps as specializations); alternatively, the first addresses short-term, tactical problems, while the second addresses long-term, strategic problems (e.g., \"Financial Management I\" might cover working capital management, while part II covers capital investment decisions). An Information systems / technology course is increasingly included as a core functional course rather than an elective. Ethics training is often delivered with coursework in corporate social responsibility and corporate governance. Note that courses here, although technical in content are, ultimately, oriented toward corporate management. (For example, the principal finance course may cover the technicalities of financial instrument valuation and capital raising, but is in fact focused on managerial- and corporate finance.) Technically-oriented courses, if offered, will be via a specialization.\n\nPrograms may also include (coursework-based) training in the skills needed at senior levels of management: soft skills, such as (general) leadership and negotiation; hard skills, such as spreadsheets and project management; thinking skills such as innovation and creativity. Training in areas such as multiculturalism and corporate social responsibility is similarly included. Company visits (including overseas travel), and guest lectures or seminars with CEOs and management personalities may also be included. These, with the core subjects, provide the graduate with breadth, while the specialty courses provide depth.\n\nFor the business strategy component, the degree capstone, the focus is on finding competitive advantage and the long-term positioning and management of the entity as a whole. Here, the key functional areas are thus synthesized or integrated into an overall view and the strategy course depicts how the various sub-disciplines integrate to tell one continuous story with each discipline complementing the others. Corresponding training in business leadership may also be scheduled and participation in a business simulation or game is also a common degree requirement. \"Strategy\" may be offered as a sequence of courses, beginning in the first part (planning) and culminating in the second (execution), or as a single intensive course, offered during the second part. Some programs offer a specialization in \"strategy\", others in management consulting which substantially addresses the same issues.\n\nThe MBA dissertation (or thesis in some universities) will, in general, comprise the following in some combination: a discussion of the literature, providing a critical review and structuring of what is known on a given topic, with a view to addressing a specific problem; a case study that goes beyond simple description, containing the analysis of hitherto unpublished material; a test of the application or limitations of some known principle or technique in a particular situation, and / or suggested modifications. As an alternative to the dissertation, some programs instead allow for a major project. Here (part-time) students will address a problem current in their organization; particularly in programs with an action learning orientation, these may be practically oriented. Most MBA programs require additional course work in research methodology, preceding the dissertation or project. Some programs allow that the research component as a whole may be substituted with additional elective coursework.\n\nMany MBA programs culminate in a comprehensive exit examination. The national standardized exam known as the Major Field Test for MBAs (MFT-MBA) has been administered in the MBA programs of over 300 U.S. universities. The MFT-MBA aims to assess skills, knowledge, and reasoning ability within the domain of standard MBA curriculum. It is administered by Educational Testing Service. Another prominent option for comprehensive exit exams is the Common Professional Component Comprehensive Exam for MBAs (CPC COMP Exam for MBAs) owned by Peregrine Academic Services. Many programs choose to administer their own in-house exam rather than a standardized test.\n\nHonor societies recognize individuals for high achievement in MBA programs. These honor societies include:\n\nAn MBA prepares individuals for many types of careers. According to a survey by the Graduate Management Admissions Council, 64% of year 2012 MBA graduates used their MBA to change careers. Some of the more common jobs an MBA prepares one for include:\n\nIn 1957, INSEAD (French name \"Institut Européen d'Administration des Affaires\", or European Institute of Business Administration) became the first European university offering the MBA degree, followed by EDHEC Business School in 1959 and ICADE in 1960 (who had started offering in 1956 a \"Technical Seminary for Business Administration\"), ESADE and IESE Business School (first two-year program in Europe) in 1964, UCD Smurfit Business School and Cranfield School of Management in 1964, Manchester Business School and London Business School in 1965, The University of Dublin (Trinity College), the Rotterdam School of Management in 1966, the Vlerick Business School in 1968 and in 1969 by the HEC School of Management (in French, the École des Hautes Études Commerciales) and the Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Paris. In 1972, Swiss business school IMEDE (now IMD) began offering a full-time MBA program, followed by IE Business School (in Spanish, Instituto de Empresas) in 1973, and AGH University of Science and Technology in Cracow, Poland in 1974. In 1991, IEDC-Bled School of Management became the first school in the ex-socialist block of the Central and Eastern to offer an MBA degree.\n\nIn Europe, the recent Bologna Accord established uniformity in three levels of higher education: Bachelor (three or four years), Masters (one or two years, in addition to three or four years for a Bachelor), and Doctorate (an additional three or four years after a Master). Students can acquire professional experience after their initial bachelor's degree at any European institution and later complete their masters in any other European institution via the European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System.\n\nAccreditation standards are not uniform in Europe. Some countries have legal requirements for accreditation (e.g. most German states), in some there is a legal requirement only for universities of a certain type (e.g. Austria), and others have no accreditation law at all. Even where there is no legal requirement, many business schools are accredited by independent bodies voluntarily to ensure quality standards.\n\nIn Austria, MBA programs of private universities have to be accredited by the Austrian Accreditation Council (\"Österreichischer Akkreditierungsrat\"). State-run universities have no accreditation requirements, however, some of them voluntarily undergo accreditation procedures by independent bodies. There are also MBA programs of non-academic business schools, who are entitled by the Austrian government to offer these programs until the end of 2012 (\"Lehrgang universitären Charakters\"). Some non-academic institutions cooperate with state-run universities to ensure legality of their degrees.\n\nJanuary 1999 saw the first meeting of the Association of the Czech MBA Schools (CAMBAS). The association is housed within the Centre for Doctoral and Managerial Studies of UEP, Prague. All of the founding members of the association to have their MBA programs accredited by partner institutions in the United Kingdom or United States of America.\n\nIn France and in the Francophone countries such as Switzerland, Monaco, Belgium, and Canada, the MBA degree programs at the public accredited schools are similar to those offered in the Anglo-Saxon countries. Most French Business Schools are accredited by the Conférence des Grandes Écoles, which is an association of higher educational establishments outside the mainstream framework of the public education system.\n\nGermany was one of the last Western countries to adopt the MBA degree. In 1998, the \"Hochschulrahmengesetz\" (Higher Education Framework Act), a German federal law regulating higher education including the types of degrees offered, was modified to permit German universities to offer master's degrees. The traditional German degree in business administration was the Diplom in \"Betriebswirtschaft\" (Diplom-Kaufmann) but since 1999, bachelor's and master's degrees have gradually replaced the traditional degrees due to the Bologna process. Today most German business schools offer the MBA. Most German states require that MBA degrees have to be accredited by one of the six agencies officially recognized by the German \"Akkreditierungsrat\" (accreditation council), the German counterpart to the American CHEA. The busiest of these six agencies (in respect to MBA degrees) is the Foundation for International Business Administration Accreditation (FIBAA). All universities themselves have to be institutionally accredited by the state (\"staatlich anerkannt\").\n\nItalian MBAs programs at public accredited schools are similar to those offered elsewhere in Europe. Italian Business Schools are accredited by EQUIS and by ASFOR.\n\nThere are several MBA programs offered in Poland. Some of these are run as partnerships with American or Canadian Universities. Others rely on their own faculty and enrich their courses by inviting visiting lecturers. Several MBA programs in Poland are also offered in English.\n\nSeveral business schools offer highly ranked MBA programs in Portugal. Portuguese MBA programs are increasingly internationally oriented, being taught in English.\n\nSpain has a long history in offering MBA programs with three MBA programs frequently being ranked in the Top 25 worldwide by several international rankings. Spanish MBAs are culturally diverse and taught in English.\n\nThere are several schools in Switzerland that offer an MBA as full-time, part-time and executive education programs. Some business schools that offer MBA programs with specializations such as Finance and Healthcare, technology management, and others. As a country with four different national languages (German, French, Italian and Romansh), Switzerland offers most of its programs in English to attract international students to the country.\n\nRecently MBA programs appeared in Ukraine where there are now about twenty schools of business offering a variety of MBA programs. Three of these are subsidiaries of European schools of business, while the remaining institutions are independent. Ukrainian MBA programs are concentrated mainly on particulars of business and management in Ukraine.\nFor example, 2/3 of all case studies are based on real conditions of Ukrainian companies.\n\nThe UK-based Association of MBAs (AMBA) was established in 1967 and is an active advocate for MBA degrees. The association's accreditation service is internationally recognised for all MBA, DBA and Masters in Business and Management (MBM) programs. AMBA also offer the only professional membership association for MBA students and graduates. UK MBA programs typically consist of a set number of taught courses plus a dissertation or project.\n\nThe Financial Times in its Executive Education Rankings for 2012 included 5 African business schools.\n\nBusiness schools administered as colleges within the traditional universities offer a variety of MBA programs. In addition, a few standalone business schools allied with foreign business schools exist in Nigeria.\n\nIn 2004 South Africa's Council on Higher Education (CHE) completed an extensive re-accreditation of MBA degrees offered in the country.\n\nBusiness schools of the traditional universities run a variety of MBA programs. In addition, foreign accredited institutions offer MBA degrees by distance learning in Ghana.\n\nMBA programs are offered in many public and private universities.\n\nStudents choose to specialize in one of the following areas: Accounting, Finance, Entrepreneurship, Insurance and Human Resources. The course takes 4 semesters of about 4 months each.\n\nInternational MBA programs are acquiring brand value in Asia. For example, while a foreign MBA is still preferred in the Philippines, many students are now studying at one of many \"Global MBA\" English language programs being offered. English-only MBA programs are also offered in Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, and Thailand. For international students who want a different experience, many Asian programs offer scholarships and discounted tuition to encourage an international environment in the classroom.\n\nRankings have been published for Asia Pacific schools by the magazine Asia Inc. which is a regional business magazine with distribution worldwide. The importance of MBA education in China has risen, too.\n\nBangladesh was one of the first countries in Asia to offer MBA degree. There are now more than 50 business schools in Bangladesh offering the MBA, predominantly targeting graduates without any work experience. Most MBAs are two years full-time. There is little use of GMAT. The Business Schools conduct their own admission tests instead. Classes are taught in English.\n\nThere are many business schools and colleges in India offering two-year MBA or PGDM programs accredited by AICTE or UGC.\n\nThe Indian Institutes of Management are among the world's most selective schools according to Bloomberg magazine. They offer a post graduate degree in management. There are 20 IIMs in total, 12 of which were established after the year 2010.\n\nMalaysia is one of the pioneer country in South East Asia to offer MBA programs. Both public and private universities offers MBA degrees. Most MBAs are in full-time mode and part-time mode. All MBA degrees are conducted in English.\n\nSingapore is South East Asia's leading financial hub. Its competitive educational system starts from primary schools to universities and eventually post-graduate studies such as EMBA programs.\n\nIn Japan 2 business schools offer the accredited MBA degree (AACSB, AMBA or EQUIS). The concept of an MBA is still not considered mainstream as traditional companies still perceive that knowledge and learning with respect to business and management can only be effectively gained through experience and not within a classroom. In fact, some companies have been known to place recent MBA recipients in unrelated fields, or try to re-acclimate their Japanese employees who have spent years overseas earning the degree. As a consequence, academic institutions in Japan are attempting to reinvent the perception of the MBA degree, by taking into account the local corporate culture.\n\nPakistan first offered an MBA program outside the United States in 1955 in collaboration with the University of Pennsylvania. Now in Pakistan, there are 187 Universities/Institutes which are recognized by the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan, offering MBA programs to students and professionals.\n\nIn Australia, 42 Australian business schools offer the MBA degree (16 are AACSB, AMBA or EQUIS accredited). Universities differentiate themselves by gaining international accreditation and focusing on national and international rankings. Most MBAs are one to two years full-time. There is little use of GMAT, and instead each educational institution specifies its own requirements, which normally entails several years of management-level work experience as well as proven academic skills.\n\nGraduate Management Association of Australia carries out ratings for Australian MBAs and annually publishes Australian MBA Star Ratings.\nThe Financial Review Boss carries out biennial rankings of Australian MBAs.\n\nIn New Zealand, most universities offer MBA classes, typically through part-time arrangement or evening classes. Only two universities offer full-time programs to international students - University of Otago (Otago MBA) and Auckland University of Technology (AUT). The Otago MBA is the longer established of the two, offering a 240 points program while AUT MBA is a 180-point program.\n\nKorean universities offer full-time and part-time MBA programs that usually consist of a two-year curriculum. The first MBA program was offered in 1963 by Korea University Business School (KUBS). In 2007, the Korean Government established \"BK21,\" a project that supports Korean universities in order to develop their competitiveness in the global MBA market. Korea University Business School topped the evaluation of BK21 professional business graduate schools for six consecutive years. In the meantime, only two universities in Korea ranked in the \"2015 Global Top 100 Executive MBA (EMBA) Rankings\" conducted by UK Financial Times (Korea University Business School and Yonsei University ranked 27th and 45th worldwide, respectively).\n\nSince 1967, publications have ranked MBA programs using various methods. The \"Gourman Report\" (1967–1997) did not disclose criteria or ranking methods, and these reports were criticized for reporting statistically impossible data, such as no ties among schools, narrow gaps in scores with no variation in gap widths, and ranks of nonexistent departments. In 1977 \"The Carter Report\" ranked MBA programs based on the number of academic articles published by faculty, the \"Ladd & Lipset Survey\" ranked business schools based on faculty surveys, and \"MBA Magazine\" ranked schools based on votes cast by business school deans.\n\nToday, publications by the Aspen Institute, \"Business Week\", \"The Economist\", \"Financial Times\", \"Forbes\", Quacquarelli Symonds, \"US News & World Report\", and the \"Wall Street Journal\" make their own rankings of MBA programs. Schools' ranks can vary across publications, as the methodologies for rankings differ among publications:\n\n\nThe ranking of MBA programs has been discussed in articles and on academic websites. Critics of ranking methodologies maintain that any published rankings should be viewed with caution for the following reasons:\n\nOne study found that ranking MBA programs by a combination of graduates' starting salaries and average student GMAT score can approximately duplicate the top 20 list of the national publications, and concluded that a truly objective ranking would use objective measures of program quality and be individualized to the needs of each prospective student. National publications have recognized the value of rankings against different criteria, and now offer lists ranked different ways: by salary, GMAT score of students, selectivity, and so forth. While useful, these rankings have yet to meet the critique that rankings are not tailored to individual needs, that they use an incomplete population of schools, may fail to distinguish between the different MBA program types offered by each school, or rely on subjective interviews.\n\nThe media raised questions about the value and content of business school programs after the financial crisis of 2007–2010. In general, graduates had reportedly tended to go into finance after receiving their degrees. As financial professionals are widely seen as responsible for the global economic meltdown, anecdotal evidence suggests new graduates are choosing different career paths.\n\nDeans at top business schools have acknowledged that media and public perception of the MBA degree shifted as a result of the financial crisis. Articles have been written about public perceptions of the crisis, ranging from schools' acknowledgment of issues with the training students receive to criticisms of the MBA's role in society.\n\nThe MBA title has acquired a mixed reputation in that the MBA curriculum tends to educate students in the \"greed is good\" direction based on various simplistic assumptions about human behaviour.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4663849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4663849", "title": "Mental Calculation World Cup", "text": "Mental Calculation World Cup\n\nThe Mental Calculation World Cup (Weltmeisterschaften im Kopfrechnen, or World Championship in Mental Calculation) is an international competition for mental calculators, held every two years in Germany.\n\nThe first Mental Calculation World Cup was held in Annaberg-Buchholz, Germany on 30 October 2004. There were 17 participants from 10 countries.\n\nThe World Cup involved the following contests (and two surprise tasks):\n\nIn the overall ranking the first place is taken by Robert Fountain (Great Britain), the runner-up was Jan van Koningsveld (Germany).\n\nThe second Mental Calculation World Cup was held on 4 November 2006 in Gießen, Germany.\n26 Calculators from 11 countries took part.\nThe World Cup involved the following contests (and two surprise tasks):\n\nRobert Fountain (Great Britain) defended his title in the overall competition, the places 2 to 4 have been won by Jan van Koningsveld (Netherlands), Gert Mittring (Germany) and Yusnier Viera Romero (Cuba).\n\nThe Mental Calculation World Cup 2008 was held at the university of Leipzig, Germany on 1 July 2008. It attracted 28 calculators from 12 countries.\n\n\nAlberto Coto (Spain) won the overall title. Jan van Koningsveld, starting for Germany this time, became second, and Jorge Arturo Mendoza Huertas (Peru) finished third. Robert Fountain, who won the title in 2004 and 2006, achieved a fourth rank.\n\nThe Mental Calculation World Cup 2010 was held at the university of Magdeburg, Germany on 6–7 June 2010. It attracted 33 calculators from 13 countries.\n\n\nPriyanshi Somani (India) won the overall title. Marc Jornet Sanz (Spain) came second, and Alberto Coto finished third.\n\nThe Mental Calculation World Cup 2012 was held from 30/9/2012 to 01/10/2012 in the Mathematikum museum in Gießen, Germany.\n32 calculators from 16 countries participated. \nThe world cup involved the following 5 main contests :\n\nNaofumi Ogasawara (Japan) won the title in the overall competition (combination of all 10 categories). Hua Wei Chan (Malaysia) was 2nd overall, and Jan van Koningsveld was 3rd.\n\nThe Mental Calculation World Cup 2014 was held from 10/10/2014 to 12/10/2014 in the Faculty of Mathematics in Dresden University of Technology, Germany. \n\n39 mental calculators from 17 countries participated. \n\nThe World Cup involved the following 5 main contests:\n\nGranth Thakkar (India) won the title in the overall competition (combination of all 10 categories). Marc Jornet Sanz (Spain) was 2nd overall, and Chie Ishikawa (Japan) was 3rd.\n\nThe Mental Calculation World Cup 2016 was held from 23-25 September 2016, in Bielefeld Germany. 31 mental calculators from 16 countries participated. \n\nThe World Cup involved the following 5 main contests:\n\nYuki Kimura (Japan) won the title in the overall competition (combination of all 10 categories). Tetsuya Ono (Japan) was 2nd overall, and Lee Jeonghee (South Korea) was 3rd.\n\nThe Mental Calculation World Cup 2018 was held on 28-30 September 2018 at the Phaeno Science Center in Wolfsburg, Germany. 82 calculators from 24 countries applied for the qualification; 33 calculators from 17 countries were qualified and took part at at the contest in Wolfsburg.\n\nThe World Cup involved the following 5 main contests:\n\nTomohiro Iseda (Japan) won the title in the overall competition (combination of all 10 categories). Hiroto Ihara (Japan) finished second and Wenzel Grüß (Germany) third.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48618506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48618506", "title": "Miyong Kim", "text": "Miyong Kim\n\nMiyong Kim is a Korean-American nurse researcher and academic. She is the La Quinta Centennial Endowed Professor in the School of Nursing at the University of Texas at Austin.\n\nKim was born in South Korea and came to the United States with her two sons when her husband, \"Kim\" Byung-tae Kim, began a Ph.D. in psychology at the University of Arizona. After earning a Ph.D. at the University of Arizona, Miyong Kim was on the faculty of the Johns Hopkins School of Nursing. She was named a fellow of both the American Heart Association and the American Academy of Nursing. \n\nA 2005 alumna of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Executive Nurse Fellows program. Kim was promoted to full professor at Johns Hopkins in 2007. She directed the Center of Excellence for Cardiovascular Health of Vulnerable Populations at Johns Hopkins. In 2012, she was inducted into the Sigma Theta Tau International Nurse Researcher Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 2013, Kim was named the La Quinta Centennial Endowed Professor in the School of Nursing at the University of Texas at Austin, as well as the Associate Vice President for Community Health Engagement. In September 2014, Kim was selected to lead the school's NIH-funded Center in Self Management of Chronic Illness. She utilizes community-based participatory research (CBPR) to investigate health disparities among ethnic minorities.\n"}
{"id": "12419891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12419891", "title": "National Literacy Mission Programme", "text": "National Literacy Mission Programme\n\nThe National Literacy Mission (NLM) is a nationwide program started by Government of India in 1988. It aims to educate 80 million adults in the age group of 15 - 35 over an eighty-year period. By \"literacy\", the NLM means not only learning how to read, write and count but also helping people understand why they are deprived and helping them move towards change.\n\nNational Literacy Mission (NLM) was set up by the Indian government on 5 May, 1988. NLM works under the guidance of the National Literacy Mission Authority, an independent wing of the Ministry of Human Resources and Development.\n\nNLM initially had two flagship programs - \"Total Literacy\" and \"Post literacy\". The initiative was revitalized on 30 September, 1999, when they were combined as a single program: 'Literacy Campaigns and Operation Restoration'.\n\nThe NLM initiated its first successful campaign in Kottayam city of Kerala followed by Ernakulam district. Up until November 2002, 596 districts out of the total 640 districts of the country had been covered under Total Literacy. 191 were in the post literacy phase while 238 were in the continuing education phase.\n\nIn 1999 UNESCO conferred upon it their Noma Literacy Prize. It received jury appreciation for the teaching material it had produced and for raising the awareness of quality primary education in schools.\n\nNLM works with NGOs across the country, providing financial assistance for those that actively participate.\n\nIn India, 81% of youths from ages 15–24 and 63% of all adults are literate, based on a 2005 - 2010 UNESCO study.\n\nnatiolanliteracy mission\n\n"}
{"id": "21547335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21547335", "title": "Norwegian Chemical Society", "text": "Norwegian Chemical Society\n\nThe Norwegian Chemical Society () is a professional society for chemists. Formed in 1893, its purpose is to \"promote the interest and understanding of chemistry and chemical technology\".\n\nChair is Kenneth Ruud, vice chair is Hans Henrik Øvrebø and board members are Øyvind Mikkelsen, Lillian Zernichow and Kari Herder Kaggerud.\n"}
{"id": "1673827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1673827", "title": "Oeconomicus", "text": "Oeconomicus\n\nThe Oeconomicus () by Xenophon is a Socratic dialogue principally about household management and agriculture. \n\nIt is one of the earliest works on economics in its original sense of household management, and a significant source for the social and intellectual history of Classical Athens. Beyond the emphasis on household economics, the dialogue treats such topics as the qualities and relationships of men and women, rural vs. urban life, slavery, religion, and education.\n\nJoseph Epstein states that the \"Oeconomicus\" can actually be seen as a treatise on success in leading both an army and a state.\n\nScholars lean towards a relatively late date in Xenophon's life for the composition of the \"Oeconomicus\", perhaps after 362 BC. Cicero translated the \"Oeconomicus\" into Latin, and the work gained popularity during the Renaissance in a number of translations.\n\nThe opening framing dialogue is between Socrates and Critoboulus, the son of Crito. There Socrates discusses the meaning of wealth and identifies it with usefulness and well-being, not merely possessions. He links moderation and hard work to success in household management. The dramatic date of this part of the work can be no earlier than 401 BC, as the Battle of Cunaxa is referred to at 4.18.\n\nWhen Critoboulus asks about the practices involved in household management, Socrates pleads ignorance on the subject but relates what he heard of it from an Athenian gentleman-farmer (\"kaloskagathos\") named Ischomachus. In the discussion related by Socrates, Ischomachus describes the methods he used to educate his wife in housekeeping, their practices in ruling and training slaves, and the technology involved in farming. Approximately two thirds of the dialogue concerns the discussion between Socrates and Ischomachus. There is no final reversion to further discussion with Critoboulos.\n\nLeo Strauss wrote a political-philosophical commentary on the dialogue. He took the \"Oeconomicus\" as a more ironic examination of the nature of the gentleman, virtue, and domestic relationships.\n\nMichel Foucault devoted a chapter in his \"The History of Sexuality\" (1976–1984) to \"Ischomachus' Household\". He took Xenophon's depiction of the relationship between Ischomachus and his wife as a classical expression of the ancient Greek ideology of power, according to which a man's control of his emotions was externally reflected in his control of his wife, his slaves, and his political subordinates. \n\nFollowing Foucault, feminist scholars and social historians such as Sarah Pomeroy have explored the \"Oeconomicus\" as a source for Greek attitudes to the relationship between men and women, but successive interpretations have differed. Some see Xenophon's attitude toward women as misogynist and patriarchal, while others maintain that he was a proto-feminist in certain ways. \n\nSome have taken Xenophon's use of Ischomachus as a supposed expert in the education of a wife as an instance of anachronistic irony, a device used by Plato in his Socratic dialogues. This ironic line of interpretation sees Ischomachus as a target of satire rather than a stand-in for Xenophon. Some have suggested that the Ischomachus of the dialogue is the same man whose family became the subject of ridicule in Athenian political oratory. After this Ischomachus died, his widow moved in with her daughter and son-in-law Callias and soon became pregnant with the man's child, which eventually led to the daughter's suicide attempt. Callias was frequently parodied in Athenian comedies for his sexual excesses and pseudo-intellectualism.\n\nThe import of such irony has also been the subject of much contention: are his wife's actions a sign of a bad education or just the inevitable result of the loss of the controlling influence in her life? How responsible was Ischomachus for his daughter's marriage to a man of such poor character?\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9594798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9594798", "title": "Pakistan studies", "text": "Pakistan studies\n\nPakistan studies curriculum (Urdu: \"\") is the name of a curriculum of academic research and study that encompasses the culture, demographics, geography, history, and politics of Pakistan. The subject is widely researched in and outside the country. Several universities in Pakistan have departments and research centers dedicated to the subject, whereas many independent research institutes carry out multidisciplinary research on Pakistan Studies. There are also a number of international organizations that are engaged in collaborative teaching, research, and exchange activities on the subject.\n\nAs the second largest South Asian country, and one of the major actors in the politics of the Muslim world, Pakistan is a focus of multidisciplinary studies. Various universities in the United States and the United Kingdom have research groups busy in academic and research related activities on Pakistan Studies. One such example is the American Institute of Pakistan Studies (AIPS) at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, established since 1973. An affiliate of the Association for Asian Studies, the institute regularly holds events such as seminars, public lectures, and conferences on various topics related to the Pakistan Studies. It also offers annual international fellowships for the research on materials relating to the history and culture of Pakistan. \n\nIn April 2004, AIPS organized an international workshop on the Salt Range Culture Zone of Pakistan at the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Wisconsin–Madison. The event provided the international audience with an opportunity to understand the archaeological and architectural heritage of the country.\n\nAnother academic initiative is the British Association for Pakistan Studies that was established in 1989. The forum has wider views on the topic than the common historiographical contexts, and encourages research and dialogue that involves both the academics and practitioners. The forum acknowledges that the topic has not received the sort of individual attention that the country and its society deserve, and therefore strives to increase international awareness on the subject.\n\nThere are also larger multinational and multicultural organizations that provide pluralist platforms for the discussions and debates on Pakistan Studies within the wider contexts of Asia. The Asia Foundation, for example, has launched specific projects for a diverse understanding of the subject through actions on local governance, civil society, human rights, and healthcare as well as political, economic, judicial, and foreign relations.\n\nPakistan Studies is one of the few heritage subjects for O-level and IGCSE qualifications governed by Cambridge International Examinations. The syllabus covers Pakistan's history, cultural heritage, national identity, geography, economy, and environment, as well as the challenges and opportunities faced by the country.\n\nIn Pakistan, the subject is one of the three compulsory courses (along with the Urdu and English language courses) at the Secondary School and Higher Secondary school levels of education. It is also taught as a degree course at most of the Social Science departments in many universities. There are also university departments dedicated to the education and research in Pakistan Studies.\n\nMany of these departments provide degree programmes for in-depth studies, as well as research facilities for M.Phil and PhD scholars. Courses broadly range from the history, politics and linguistics to the country's geography and economics, and from foreign affairs and religion studies to the social relations and literature. The focused attention on the subject at higher education levels means a wider scope for the research, thus making the subject an increasingly interdisciplinary one.\n\nThe variable political history of Pakistan shows the country being ruled alternately by the civilian and military leaderships. This lack of political succession has had its effects on the way the history was depicted in the curricula of Pakistan Studies until 2006, which increasingly portrayed what Rubina Saigol termed as 'glorification of military'. However, the occasional attempts to alter the historical texts did not escape criticisms from the academics and scholars in Pakistan and abroad. Historian Ayesha Jalal in her 1995 article also raised concerns over the trends of official historiography in Pakistan's history textbooks.\n\nYvette Rosser, in an article based on her PhD thesis, regards such curriculum as a composite of patriotic discourses. She identifies significant defects, inherent contradictions and inaccurate information within educational syllabus in general and the Pakistan Studies textbooks in particular. In 2003, Sustainable Development Policy Institute in Pakistan published a report that had emerged from a survey of text books of Urdu, English, Social Studies and Civics subjects being taught at the secondary and higher secondary school levels. The survey identified inaccuracies of fact and omissions that appeared to distort the significance of actual events in the country's history. Some of the prominent issues included the lack of understanding towards the civil society, religious diversity, and gender relations. The report recommended for major structural reforms and establishment of a National Education Advisory Board to centralise the curriculum development and carry out regular revisions. \n\nAbout the international perception of the subject, Burzine Waghmar of the School of Oriental and African Studies argues that Pakistan Studies is increasingly perceived with sonorous sessions on weapons control, civil unrest, bonded labour, gender inequality and the like. These issues are considered among major hurdles to the wider international interest in the subject. Waghmar concludes that Pakistan and India, among other oriental societies, are plagued by visceral nationalism and post-imperial neurosis where state-sanctioned dogmas suppress eclectic historical readings.\n\nAccording to the Sustainable Development Policy Institute report 'Associated with the insistence on the Ideology of Pakistan has been an essential component of hate against India and the Hindus. For the upholders of the Ideology of Pakistan, the existence of Pakistan is defined only in relation to Hindus, and hence the Hindus have to be painted as negatively as possible' A 2005 report by the National Commission for Justice and Peace a non profit organization in Pakistan, found that Pakistan Studies textbooks in Pakistan have been used to articulate the hatred that Pakistani policy-makers have attempted to inculcate towards the Hindus. 'Vituperative animosities legitimise military and autocratic rule, nurturing a siege mentality. Pakistan Studies textbooks are an active site to represent India as a hostile neighbour' the report stated. 'The story of Pakistan’s past is intentionally written to be distinct from, and often in direct contrast with, interpretations of history found in India. From the government-issued textbooks, students are taught that Hindus are backward and superstitious.' Further the report stated 'Textbooks reflect intentional obfuscation. Today’s students, citizens of Pakistan and its future leaders are the victims of these partial truths'.\n\nAn editorial in Pakistan's oldest newspaper Dawn commenting on a report in The Guardian on Pakistani Textbooks noted 'By propagating concepts such as jihad, the inferiority of non-Muslims, India’s ingrained enmity with Pakistan, etc., the textbook board publications used by all government schools promote a mindset that is bigoted and obscurantist. Since there are more children studying in these schools than in madrassahs the damage done is greater. ' \n\nAccording to the historian Professor Mubarak Ali, textbook reform in Pakistan began with the introduction of Pakistan Studies and Islamic studies by Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto in 1971 into the national curriculum as compulsory subject. Former military dictator Gen Zia-ul-Haq under a general drive towards Islamization, started the process of historical revisionism in earnest and exploited this initiative. 'The Pakistani establishment taught their children right from the beginning that this state was built on the basis of religion – that's why they don't have tolerance for other religions and want to wipe-out all of them.'\n\nAccording to Pervez Hoodbhoy, a physics professor at Quaid-i-Azam University in Islamabad, the Islamizing of Pakistan's schools began in 1976 when an act of parliament required all government and private schools (except those teaching the British O-levels from Grade 9) to follow a curriculum that includes learning outcomes for the federally approved Grade 5 social studies class such as: 'Acknowledge and identify forces that may be working against Pakistan,' 'Make speeches on Jihad,' 'Collect pictures of policemen, soldiers, and national guards,' and 'India's evil designs against Pakistan.'\n\nReferring to NCERT's extensive review of textbooks in India in 2004, Verghese considered the erosion of plural and democratic values in textbooks in India, and the distortion of history in Pakistan to imply the need for coordination between Bangladeshi, Indian, and Pakistani historians to produce a composite history of the South Asia as a common reader. \n\nHowever, international scholars also warn that any attempt for educational reforms under international pressure or market demands should not overlook the specific expectations of the people at local levels.\n\nFollowing the extensive media debate and academic reiteration on the need to update the curriculum at all levels of education, the Government of Pakistan carried out measures in 2006 to improve the national curriculum for Pakistan Studies. \nThese actions were based on the earlier studies and recommendations by the former University Grants Commission in 2001 and then later by the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan (HEC) in 2003. \n\nThe new curriculum, for secondary and higher school certificates, was implemented from 2007 to include the political history from pre-independence to the modern times, international relations, evolution of the country's economy and demographics, diversity of regional cultures and languages, and the status of religious groups with specific reference to Muhammad Ali Jinnah’s views that he expressed at his speech of 11 August 1947. It also eliminates prejudice against non-Muslims, efforts have been made to exclude all such material that promotes prejudice against the non-Muslims of pre-independence India. \n\nSubsequently, the need was also realised to standardise the subject framework across the university degrees. As a result, in 2007, the Curriculum Division at the HEC revised the syllabus for the degrees of Bachelor of Science and Master of Science in Pakistan Studies. The new higher education course outline goes beyond the literature, politics, history and culture, and addresses the contemporary challenges of urbanisation, foreign policy and environment. The recommendations also imply the needs for training the teachers to improve their communication skills in accordance with the new structures.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "344438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=344438", "title": "Parallel History Project", "text": "Parallel History Project\n\nThe Parallel History Project on Cooperative Security (PHP) is an open source website reference compilation, research project, and analysis nexus sparked by the progressive increase in the declassification of NATO and Soviet bloc documents related to Cold War activities, as viewed by both sides. Currently, research into Soviet bloc archives has expanded the project's scope to the Global Cold War, with views specifically on the Indian subcontinent and Southeast Asia.\n\nAccording to the site:\n\n[PHP] seeks to collect, analyze, and interpret these premier sources for the study of contemporary international history. By relating them to current security issues, the PHP enhances their understanding by highlighting how they differ from the recent past. It explores how the different alliance experiences have influenced the attitudes and behavior of the present members of the enlarged NATO and the Partnership for Peace (PfP).\n\nThe Parallel History Project is based at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, Switzerland and is run in partnership with the International Relations and Security Network (ISN) and the Center for Security Studies (CSS). Vojtech Mastny has been the project's coordinator.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33986645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33986645", "title": "PetroSkills Alliance", "text": "PetroSkills Alliance\n\nPetroSkills Alliance is an initiative formed between oil and gas companies and PetroSkills to help in the creation and management of controlling factors of the courses provided by PetroSkills.\n\nMember companies joined together with PetroSkills to create detailed skill and competency maps, which act as a guide for the short courses, taught to industry professionals in locations spanning the globe. The competency maps compromise specific details about the technical skills professionals in a given discipline are expected to develop at different stages throughout their career.\n\n1963 PetroSkills began as OGCI where it delivered the first petroleum technology short course.\n\n2001 BP, Shell and OGCI (Oil and Gas Consultant International) formed the PetroSkills Alliance. Halliburton joined soon after.\n\n2002 Saudi Aramco became a full member of the PetroSkills Alliance\n\n2003 Occidental Petroleum also known as OXY joined the PetroSkills Alliance.\n\n2004 ConocoPhillips, Chevron, and Repsol partnered with PetroSkills.\n\n2005 Marathon Oil became a PetroSkills Alliance member.\n\n2007 Swift Energy and Pertamina joined the PetroSkills Alliance.\n\n2008 PTTEP, Woodside Petroleum, Baker Hughes became members of the PetroSkills Alliance.\n\n2009 BG Group, Nexen Inc., and MOL Group joined with PetroSkills.\n\n2010 Talisman Energy and Maersk Oil were added to the Alliance. 2010 Also marked the year BV Investment Partners, a private equity firm became a majority stakeholder in PetroSkills.\n\n2011 SABIC, Tesco Corporation, and Kuwait Oil Company joined the alliance.\n\n2012 Suncor Energy, Noble Energy, BHP Billiton, Weatherford International, and Oman Oil Company came on board with the alliance.\n\n2013 Methanex and BAPCO became part of the PetroSkills alliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "22841508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22841508", "title": "Record type", "text": "Record type\n\nRecord type is a family of typefaces designed to allow medieval manuscripts (specifically those from England) to be published as near-facsimiles of the originals. The typefaces include a large number of special characters intended to replicate the various scribal abbreviations and other unusual glyphs typically found in such manuscripts. They were used in the publication of archival texts between 1774 and 1900.\n\nRecord type was originally developed in the 1770s when plans were under way for the publication of Domesday Book. Early experiments in using special typefaces were not successful, but in 1773 the printer John Nichols designed a record type for an extract from Domesday to be included in John Hutchins' \"History and Antiquities of the County of Dorset\" (published in 1774). He was so pleased with the result that he and the co-editor of Domesday, Abraham Farley, persuaded the Treasury that the typeface should be adopted for the main Domesday project. It was consequently used in Farley's edition of Domesday Book, published in 1783. Nichols regarded the design as among his greatest achievements, stating that \"on the correctness and beauty of this important Work, I am prepared to stake my typographical credit\". \n\nThe original Domesday type was destroyed in the fire at Nichols' office in 1808, but a modified form of record type was widely used during the first half of the 19th century in the publications of the Record Commission. It was subsequently used in the publications of the Pipe Roll Society from 1884 until 1900; and in 1890 in a single volume published by the Selden Society (despite the misgivings of the society's founder, F. W. Maitland). The Selden Society's experiment was not repeated, and at a General Meeting held in 1903 the Pipe Roll Society decided to abandon record type in favour of publishing its texts \"in extenso\" (i.e. with all abbreviations extended).\n\nRecord type fell out of favour because its merits (primarily the fact that, given accurate transcription, the reader was presented with exactly what appeared on the manuscript page) were increasingly felt to be outweighed by its disadvantages: the high costs of typesetting and proofreading, and the challenges to the reader presented by a text prepared with minimal editorial intervention. Moreover, technical advances by the late 19th century meant that, in cases where there was a genuine argument for facsimile publication, this could be achieved more satisfactorily, cheaply and accurately by means of photozincography and other photographic printing techniques. \n\nPaul Harvey regards record type as falling \"badly between two stools, giving less than a facsimile on the one hand, less than an extended text on the other\". Nevertheless, L. C. Hector has argued that the modest amount of rationalisation and standardisation required to set a manuscript in record type resulted in a \"half-way stage towards the interpretation of the abbreviations\" that remains a useful tool to assist the novice in medieval palaeography.\n\nCharles Trice Martin's \"The Record Interpreter\" (first edition 1892; second edition 1910), which remains a standard handbook for the interpretation of English medieval manuscript texts, employs a version of record type to present abbreviated words.\n\nA continuing desire in the digital age to represent the special characters of medieval texts in typographical form is demonstrated by the establishment in 2001 of the Medieval Unicode Font Initiative, which aims to coordinate the encoding and display of such characters.\n\n"}
{"id": "56827810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56827810", "title": "Rise of Industry", "text": "Rise of Industry\n\nRise of Industry is a business tycoon game, developed by British indie team Dapper Penguin Studios and published by Kasedo Games. The game sees players build and manage their industrial empire as they attempt to grow and expand in the early 20th century. \n\nThe game was released to early access on February 9, 2018, primarily through Steam and GOG.\n\nIn \"Rise of Industry\", players begin with a sum of money and a map on which to build which is shared with several AI controlled towns and villages. It is your aim as the player to build an industrial empire by supplying these towns and villages with the products they demand.\n\nThere are currently two main game modes, Career and Sandbox. In career mode, the player must choose a specialism in which to begin their empire. There are four specialisms to choose from: Gathering, Farming, Industry and Logistics. While all remain open for the player to use, the chosen specialism will grant more Research & Development points, which are used to upgrade in the tech tree. In Sandbox mode, all unlocks are available and the player can build without research and financial limitations.\n\nA game is played on a map which is broken up into regions, each requiring the player to buy a permit in order to build within that region. There are two permit types; a full build permit which enables you to build anything within that region and a logistical permit which will allow the placement of network elements such as railway tracks and roads but not buildings. The player can then start to place buildings such as factories, farms, gatherers etc and then sell products to towns and villages requiring them. The price paid for your products is set by a global supply and demand system. The more of a product that is available, the less money you will receive, however towns will pay a premium for good that aren't as plentiful. The towns won't just rely on the player to get produce though. They will look to either produce a demanded item themselves, or look for a trade connection with neighbouring towns. \n\nTrade routes play a large part in the game as a function to move your products from A to B. The player can create a trade route for a variety of transport including trucks, boats, trains and zeppelins with each mode of transport having an advantage over an other depending on the distance and capacity needed for each route.\n\nThe game was originally named \"Project Automata\" in early development. Its name was changed to \"Rise of Industry\" in early 2017.\n\n\"Rise of Industry\" was released as a pre-alpha version on indie video game store, itch.io in order to gain player feedback in order to improve gameplay before the official early access release. During this time, Rise of Industry became the most purchased game of 2017 on Itch.\n\n\"Rock Paper Shotgun\" said that \"Rise of Industry\"'s early access release was \"full of neat ideas\" but that \"they might wait until further updates to play again\". \"PC Gamer\" called it a \"fairly deep sim\", although they thought that the lack of flexibility in the game \"could put people off\". \"Hardcore Gamer\" however praised Dapper Penguin Studios for \"their total openness to their community\" and \"great willingness to listen to player feedback\", stating \"this is exactly how an Early Access release should be handled\".\n"}
{"id": "44128360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44128360", "title": "Robert Kent Gooch", "text": "Robert Kent Gooch\n\nRobert Kent \"Bobby\" Gooch (September 26, 1893 – May 22, 1982) was an American football player and track athlete. Gooch was a quarterback for the Virginia Cavaliers football team of the University of Virginia. He was named a Rhodes Scholar, but the First World War interrupted his studies. During the war, Gooch served with the American Ambulance Corps with the French forces on the Somme front, and was awarded the Croix de Guerre. He is the namesake of the Robert Kent Gooch Scholarship, for second and third-year college students who have a record of outstanding academic achievement and a record of outstanding service to others. For many years Gooch was a political science professor at UVA, writing several books. He is buried at the University of Virginia Cemetery.\n\nGooch was born on September 26, 1893 in Roanoke to William Stapleton Gooch, a lawyer, and Mary Stuart Anderson. His ancestry was English and French; a descendant of Sir William Gooch, 1st Baronet. In 1895, the family moved to Louisa Court House, VA.\n\nGooch played quarterback for Virginia from 1912 to 1914. He led the Cavaliers to an 8–1 record in 1914, when he was teammates with the likes of Buck Mayer and James L. White. One fellow said, \"When Gooch took the ball he moved so fast that he seemed to be in four places at one time, and the referee tried to penalize Virginia for having 15 men on the field.\" Professor W. A. Lambeth of Virginia selected Gooch for his All-Southern team in 1914. He later returned as an assistant coach at his alma mater.\n"}
{"id": "9046909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9046909", "title": "Schoolhouse Home Education Association", "text": "Schoolhouse Home Education Association\n\nSchoolhouse Home Education Association, more commonly referred to as Schoolhouse, is a charity based in Scotland which provides support and information to parents about Home education in Scotland.\n\nSchoolhouse was set up in Dundee in 1996 by parents who identified the shortage of clear, accurate information on home educating in Scotland where the law and practices in relation to Home Education differ significantly from the other nations within the United Kingdom.\n\nSchoolhouse works in close cooperation with its counterpart support organisation Action for Home Education (AHEd) which operates in England, Wales and Northern Ireland.\n\n"}
{"id": "53617664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53617664", "title": "Science and Engineering Challenge", "text": "Science and Engineering Challenge\n\nThe Science and Engineering Challenge (SEC) is a non-profit, STEM outreach program run throughout the schools year in Australia. The goal of the program is to challenge student’s perception of science and engineering and experience aspects of those fields that they normally would not encounter in a school environment.\n\nThe SEC focuses on inspiring students in year 10 to consider a future career in science and engineering by choosing to study science and mathematics in years 11 and 12. The SEC also includes other events such as Discovery Days and the S.M.A.R.T outreach program.\n\nThe SEC began at the University of Newcastle as an initiative of the Faculties of Engineering and Built Environment, and Science and Information Technology. Initially, information nights were conducted aimed at giving students and parents from rural areas the opportunity to find out about careers in science and engineering. Based on the success of these information nights, the first SEC event was held on the Central Coast in the year 2000, as an activity for National Science Week. Throughout 2001, events were held around the Newcastle area and other parts of NSW.\n\n2002 saw the first Challenge Days held outside of NSW, this took place in Canberra. Over the next three years, Challenge Days were conducted in Queensland, Tasmania, South Australia and Victoria. In 2005 the winners from each state competed at the first National Final.\n\nIn 2017 there were 110 SMART events, 49 Discovery Days for primary-aged students, and 99 Challenge Days for year 9-10 students. Overall more than 50,000 people were involved in one or more SEC programs. Almost 2,100 teachers and 3,600 other volunteers were also involved.\nSince 1998 over half a million people have taken part in a SEC event.\n\nIn 2005 the Challenge expanded yet again to include events for primary school students, called Discovery Days. These are largely the same as regular challenge events; however, the actives are simplified and typical run for a shorter period of time.\n\n"}
{"id": "47929890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47929890", "title": "Self-blended model of learning", "text": "Self-blended model of learning\n\nIn the self-blended model of learning (or self-blend model of learning), students take online courses in addition to their traditional face-to-face learning. This model of blended learning is commonly practiced among American high school students, and students follow this approach because it gives them the freedom to supplement what they have learned and what they have been taught in class.\nThe self-blended model of learning is generally approached by the students opting to take online courses outside of the time they spend on the traditional courses. It tackles the problem of the courses or subjects which are not provided by the school due to various reasons such as lack of funding, lack of student interest or lack of time. Students take online courses either in a brick-and-mortar campus or offsite. It is not necessary to have computers at home for the students who use the self-blended model of learning, as they can access the internet at their own school computer labs or they can head to local libraries to complete their work. They can also go to nearby cyber lounges.\n\nThe self-blend learning model is often used by high school students, as it requires students to monitor their learning process and take initiatives, which the younger students may have difficulty managing. Therefore, it differs in this way from the rotational model of learning which is quite often used in elementary schools, whereas many high school students are taking additional math, English and social studies courses online in addition to their courses offered at school.\n\nThere are a number of advantages to the self-blend model of learning:\n\nThe main disadvantage of the self-blend model is that the students will not receive face to face instruction for that particular course.\nIt also involves a lack of formal structure for the undisciplined and unmotivated students.\n\n"}
{"id": "20327090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20327090", "title": "SimulTrain", "text": "SimulTrain\n\nSimulTrain is a Project Management Simulator used in project management training programs. SimulTrain is a simulation of the planning and execution phases of a medium-sized project, that involves all of the events that occur.\nSimulTrain is a computer-based multimedia tool which allows the participants to learn: \n\nThe first version of SimulTrain was released in 1996. This educational software has been constantly improved. The recent version includes an expert system that analyses the managers' behaviour and provides them with detailed feedback. In September 2015 the 11th version of SimulTrain was released. It includes Resource Leveling exercise, RACI Matrix, and Risk Register.\n\nThe project management simulation SimulTrain is based on Dr. Roland Sauter‘s PhD thesis \"La modélisation des facteurs humains dans la gestion de projets. (1996)\". A model of human factors in project management was validated by a survey of 900 project managers. In 1996 the simulator was developed based on this model.\n\nThe first version ran on Macintosh. Since then a new version with numerous new features was released regularly every two years. Version 9 released in October 2012 runs on various operating systems (Windows, Macintosh, Linux) and is available both as online version and desktop version.\n\nBy 2015 over 150,000 people across 50 countries, have been trained with SimulTrain. The simulation has been translated into 22 languages.\n\nResource Leveling exercise is a new feature added in 2013. This is an example of Resource leveling for a mid-size project. The chart shows the number of people involved in a project and its change with time. \n\nTraining is done in small groups of 4 people in two sessions of 3–4 hours each. Each group has one computer with the simulation program. The participants thus learn how to work and make decisions as a team. The simulator allows the group to work on the progress and execution of the project. It confronts the learners with many situations requiring the ability of making fast decisions and of taking all of the project parameters into account (costs, deadlines as well as human factors). The feedback and consequences of the different decisions are immediately made visible. The simulator involves multimedia technology: the participants receive many phone calls, e-mails and voice-mails, thus immersing them in surrounding them in a realistic project atmosphere.\n\nThe trainees have to complete the project within the deadline and budget. Their main tasks as project managers include: \n\nWith the simulation attendees learn in two ways:\n\nSimulTrain's only requirement is a general knowledge about project management, including the Gantt chart and the Activity Network. Both online and desktop versions of the simulator are available.\n\nIn accordance with the marketing strategy defined at the beginning of the year, the management wishes to provide its customers with an on-line interactive service. This will allow customers to follow up and control orders without the intervention of either the customer service or accounting departments. For this project a tentative schedule has been written with the list of activities, budget and time required. The core-team has been established.\n\nPlastoceram is the leading firm in manufacturing special packages made of composite materials. One of its clients that produces pacemakers cannot find any appropriate solution for the case of its latest ultra-miniature model. A case thus needs to be developed for this client within a very short time. It should be made of a resistant, very thin and easy-to-fashion material.\n\nYour company has devised a new all-in-one Smartphone. This high performance appliance includes many innovative features, which makes it very attractive for listeners on the go and consumers who enjoy new technologies. The product conception is almost finished and its launch on the market must now be prepared. For this project tentative specifications have been written with the list of activities, budget and time required. The core-team has been established.\n\nThe International Lausanne Football Tournament will gather some of the most important European youth football clubs. The National Federation is organizing the event for the first time. An organization specialized in sport events allocates all its resources to the event. The project \"ILFT phase B\" is a part of the preparation process. The preparation must be finished 2 weeks before the opening day. The core team and budget have been established. Other resources of the Federation are available for the project.\n\nThe management wishes to provide our customers with an online interactive service. This will allow customers to follow-up and control orders without the intervention of either the customer service or accounting departments. The customer representative is the Product owner. List of product backlog tasks, budget and time required have been defined. The scenario includes elements of waterfall planning and flexibility of the agile software development.\n\nSimulTrain®+ is an extension of the project management simulation to Project Portfolio Management. With the serious game the trainees acquire such skills as prioritizing / balancing a portfolio of projects under resources, funding scarcity. The trainee use such key indicators as Strategic Value, Strategic Objectives, Net Present Value, Payback time, workload, risk, cash credit, and others.\n\n\nThe free demo version can be found at Project Management Simulation SimulTrain®\nThe free demo version can be found at Portfolio Management Simulation SimulTrain®+\n\n"}
{"id": "7032057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7032057", "title": "Speech-language pathology", "text": "Speech-language pathology\n\nSpeech-Language Pathology is a field of expertise practiced by a clinician known as a speech-language pathologist (SLP), also sometimes referred to as a speech and language therapist or a speech therapist. SLP is considered a \"related health profession\" along with audiology, optometry, occupational therapy, clinical psychology, physical therapy, and others. The field of SLP is distinguished from other \"related health professions\" SLPs are legally permitted to conclude to certain disorders which fall within their scope of practice. SLPs specialize in the evaluation, diagnosis, and treatment of communication disorders (speech disorders and language disorders), cognitive-communication disorders, voice disorders, and swallowing disorders. SLPs also play an important role in the diagnosis and treatment of autism spectrum disorder (often in a team with pediatricians and psychologists).\n\nA common misconception is that speech-language pathology is restricted to adjusting a speaker's speech sound articulation to meet the expected normal pronunciation, such as helping English speaking individuals enunciate the traditionally difficult \"r\". SLPs can also often help people who stutter to speak more fluently. Articulation and fluency are only two facets of the work of an SLP, however. In fact, speech-language pathology is concerned with a broad scope of speech, language, swallowing, and voice issues involved in communication, some of which include:\n\n\nThe components of speech production include:\nThe components of language include:\n\nPrimary pediatric speech and language disorders include: receptive and expressive language disorders, speech sound disorders, childhood apraxia of speech (CAS), stuttering, and language-based learning disabilities. Speech pathologist not only work with adolescents with speech and language impediments, but also those that are elderly.\n\nSwallowing disorders include difficulties in any system of the swallowing process (\"i.e.\" oral, pharyngeal, esophageal), as well as functional dysphagia and feeding disorders. Swallowing disorders can occur at any age and can stem from multiple causes.\n\nSpeech-language pathologists (SLPs) provide a wide range of services, mainly on an individual basis, but also as support for individuals, families, support groups, and providing information for the general public. SLPs work to prevent, assess, diagnose, and treat speech, language, social communication, cognitive-communication, and swallowing disorders in children and adults. Speech services begin with initial screening for communication and swallowing disorders and continue with assessment and diagnosis, consultation for the provision of advice regarding management, intervention, and treatment, and providing counseling and other follow up services for these disorders. Services are provided in the following areas:\n\nSpeech, language, and swallowing disorders result from a variety of causes, such as a stroke, brain injury, hearing loss, developmental delay, a cleft palate, cerebral palsy, or emotional issues.\n\nSLPs collaborate with other health care professionals, often working as part of a multidisciplinary team. They can provide information and referrals to audiologists, physicians, neonatal specialists , dentists, nurses, nurse practitioners, occupational therapists, dietitians, educators, behavior consultants (applied behavior analysis), hospital chaplains/spiritual carers and parents as dictated by the individual client's needs. For example, the treatment for patients with cleft lip and palate, often requires multidisciplinary collaboration. Speech-language pathologists can be very beneficial to help resolve speech problems associated with cleft lip and palate. Research has indicated that children who receive early language intervention are less likely to develop compensatory error patterns later in life, although speech therapy outcomes are usually better when surgical treatment is performed earlier. Another area of collaboration relates to auditory processing disorders, where SLPs can collaborate in assessments and provide intervention where there is evidence of speech, language, and/or other cognitive-communication disorders. Palliative care is another health care area that often involves multi-disciplinary collaboration involving speech-language pathologists. La Trobe University Palliative Care Unit (PCU) (Melbourne, Australia) has been a strong advocate for speech-language pathologists being included within both paediatric and adult palliative care multidisciplinary teams. Currently the PCU is conducting an international modified delphi study to provide 'Recommendations for Speech-Language Pathologist in Paediatric Palliative Care Teams' (\"abbrev\". RESPCT).\n\nSLPs work in a variety of clinical and educational settings. SLPs work in public and private hospitals, skilled nursing facilities (SNFs), long-term acute care (LTAC) facilities, hospice, and home healthcare. SLPs may also work as part of the support structure in the education system, working in both public and private schools, colleges, and universities. Some SLPs also work in community health, providing services at prisons and young offenders' institutions or providing expert testimony in applicable court cases.\n\nFollowing the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association's (ASHA's) 2005 approval of the delivery of speech/language services via video conference or telepractice, SLPs in the United States have begun to use this service model.\n\nSLPs conduct research related to communication sciences and disorders, swallowing disorders, or other upper aerodigestive functions.\n\nIn the United States, speech-language pathology is a Master's entry-level professional degree field. Clinicians must hold a master's degree in Communicative Disorders/Speech-Language Pathology (\"e.g.\" M.A., M.S., or M.Ed.) that is from a university that holds regional accreditation and from a communication sciences and disorders program that is accredited by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA), the profession's national governing body as well as individual state's governing board. Programs that offer the M.Ed. degree are often housed within a university's College of education, but offer the same education and training as programs with a M.A. or M.S. degree. Beyond the master's degree, some SLPs may choose to earn a clinical doctorate in Speech-Language Pathology (\"e.g.\" CScD or SLPD), or a doctoral degree that has a research and/or professional focus (\"e.g.\", Ph.D., or Ed.D.). All degrees must be from a university that holds regional accreditation, but only the master's degree is accredited by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA).\n\nAll clinicians are required to complete 400 clinical hours (25 observation hours often completed during the undergraduate degree and 375 hours of graduate Clinical Practicum). They must pass multiple comprehensive exams also called Knowledge and Skills Acquisition (KASA) exams.\n\nAfter all the above requirements have been met during the SLP's path to earning the graduate degree, SLPs must state licensure and national certification by:\n\nMaintaining licensure through continuing education:\n\nContinuing education and training obligations:\n\nProfessional suffix:\n\nSalaries of SLPs depend on a variety of factors including educational background, work experience, and location. The ASHA 2016 Schools Survey revealed that SLPs received a median academic year salary of 62,000, which is a 2% increase from the latest Schools Survey done in 2014. Additionally, ASHA released results for the 2015 SLP Health Care Survey which placed the median salary for SLPs working within the health care industry at $75,000. However, salaries can range from $47,000–116,000. In Australia, the basic salary that a Graduate SLP would earn is estimated at $59,500 Australian dollars rising to $120,000 for Private SLP.\n\nFor many parents, the decision of whether or not to enroll students into school-based speech therapy or privately practiced therapy is challenging. Speech Pathologists work as part of a team alongside teachers, counselors, social workers and parents when in a school setting. Because school-based speech therapy is run under state guidelines and funds, the process of assessment and qualification is more strict. To qualify for in-school speech therapy, students must meet the state's criteria on language testing and speech standardization. Due to such requirements, some students may not be assessed in an efficient time frame or their needs may be undermined by criteria. For a private clinic, students are more likely to qualify for therapy because it is a paid service with more availability. \n\nSpeech-language pathologists work with clients and patients who may present with a wide range of issues.\n\n\nIn the US, some children are eligible to receive speech therapy services, including assessment and lessons through the public school system. If not, private therapy is readily available through personal lessons with a qualified Speech-Language Pathologist or the growing field of telepractice. Teleconferencing tools such as Skype are being used more commonly as a means to access remote locations in private therapy practice, such as in the geographically diverse south island of New Zealand. More at-home or combination treatments have become readily available to address specific types of articulation disorders. The use of mobile applications in speech therapy is also growing as an avenue to bring treatment into the home.\n\nIn the UK, children are entitled to an assessment by local NHS Speech and Language Therapy teams, usually after referral by health visitors or education settings, but parents are also entitled to request an assessment directly. If treatment is appropriate, an educational plan will be drawn up. Speech therapists often play a role in multi-disciplinary teams where a child has speech delay or disorder as part of a wider health condition.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35171044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35171044", "title": "St. Peter's Mission Schools", "text": "St. Peter's Mission Schools\n\nSt. Peter’s Mission School is an independent day and boarding school in Accra, Ghana providing an international education from pre-K through senior high school.\n"}
{"id": "471603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=471603", "title": "State school", "text": "State school\n\nState schools (also known as public schools outside England and Wales) are generally primary or secondary schools mandated for or offered to all children without charge, funded in whole or in part by taxation. These schools are generally inclusive (non-selective) in admitting all students within the geographical area that they serve.\n\nWhile state schools are to be found in virtually every country, there are significant variations in their structure and educational programs. State education generally encompasses primary and secondary education (kindergarten to twelfth grade, or equivalent), as well as post-secondary educational institutions such as universities, colleges, and technical schools that are funded and overseen by government rather than private entities. The education system, or lack thereof, prior to the establishment of government-funded schools impacts their role in each society. In many instances there was an established educational system which served a significant, albeit often elite, sector of the population; these systems were often funded by religious institutions. The introduction of state schools in some cases was able to build upon this established system, while in others both systems have continued to exist, sometimes in a parallel and complementary relationship and other times less harmoniously.\n\nState education is inclusive, both in its treatment of students and in that enfranchisement for the government of public education is as broad as for government generally. It is often organised and operated to be a deliberate model of the civil community in which it functions. Although typically provided to groups of students in classrooms in a central school, it may be provided in-home, employing visiting teachers, and/or supervising teachers. It can also be provided in non-school, non-home settings, such as shopping mall space.\n\nState education is generally available to all. In most countries, it is compulsory for children to attend school up to a certain age, but the option of attending private school is open to many. In the case of private schooling, schools operate independently of the state and generally defray their costs (or even make a profit) by charging parents tuition fees. The funding for state schools, on the other hand, is provided by tax revenues, so that even individuals who do not attend school (or whose dependents do not attend school) help to ensure that society is educated. In poverty stricken societies, authorities are often lax on compulsory school attendance because child labour is exploited. It is these same children whose income-securing labour cannot be forfeited to allow for school attendance.\n\nThe term \"public education\" when applied to state schools is not synonymous with the term \"publicly funded education\". Government may make a public policy decision that it wants to have some financial resources distributed in support of, and it may want to have some control over, the provision of private education. Grants-in-aid of private schools and vouchers systems provide examples of publicly funded private education. Conversely, a state school (including one run by a school district) may rely heavily on private funding such as high fees or private donations and still be considered state by virtue of governmental ownership and control.\n\nState primary and secondary education often involves the following:\n\nIn some countries (such as Germany), private associations or churches can operate schools according to their own principles, as long as they comply with certain state requirements. When these specific requirements are met, especially in the area of the school curriculum, the schools will qualify to receive state funding. They are then treated financially and for accreditation purposes as part of the state education system, even though they make decisions about hiring and school policy (not hiring atheists, for example), which the state might not make itself.\n\nGovernment schools (also known as public schools) are free to attend for Australian citizens and permanent residents, whereas independent schools usually charge attendance fees. They can be divided into two categories: open and selective schools. The open schools accept all students from their government-defined catchment areas. Government schools educate approximately 65% of Australian students, with approximately 34% in Catholic and independent schools.\n\nRegardless of whether a school is part of the Government or independent systems, they are required to adhere to the same curriculum frameworks of their state or territory. The curriculum framework however provides for some flexibility in the syllabus, so that subjects such as religious education can be taught. Most school students wear uniforms.\n\nPublic or Government funded schools are found throughout Bangladesh. These schools mostly teach students from Year 1 to 10, with examinations for students in years 5, 8, and 10. All public schools follow the National Board Curriculum. Many children, especially girls, drop out of school after completing the 5th Year in remote areas. In larger cities such as Dhaka, however, this is fairly uncommon. Many good public schools conduct an entrance exam, although most public schools in the villages and small towns usually do not. Public schools are often the only option for parents and children in rural areas, but there are large numbers of private schools in Dhaka and Chittagong. Many Bangladeshi private schools teach their students in English and follow curricula from overseas, but in public schools lessons are taught in Bengali.\n\nPer the Canadian constitution, public-school education in Canada is a provincial responsibility and, as such, there are many variations among the provinces. Junior kindergarten (or equivalent) exists as an official program in only Ontario and Quebec while kindergarten (or equivalent) is available in every province, but provincial funding and the level of hours provided varies widely. Starting at grade one, at about age six, there is universal Crown-funded access up to grade twelve (or equivalent). Schools are generally divided into elementary schools (kindergarten to Grade 6), junior high schools (Grades 7 to 9), and high schools (Grades 10 to 12). However, in many areas middle schools are also provided and in some schools, particularly in rural areas, the elementary and middle levels can be combined into one school. In 2003, Grade 13 (also known as the Ontario Academic Credit or \"OAC\" year) was eliminated in Ontario; it had previously been required only for students who intended to go on to university. Children are required to attend school until the age of sixteen in most provinces, while students in Ontario and New Brunswick must attend schools until the age of eighteen.\n\nSome Canadian provinces offer segregated-by-religious-choice, but nonetheless Crown-funded and Crown-regulated, religiously based education. In Ontario, for example, Roman Catholic schools are known as \"Catholic school\" or \"Separate school\", not \"Public school\", although these are, by definition, no less \"public\" than their secular counterparts.\n\nIn the PRC, state schools are funded and administered by the education sector within the government. Although some, especially high schools, have started to charge a fair portion of parents of students an additional tuition fee, due to the increased places offered by the schools in recent years. Top state schools are often very selective, however. Students who miss their entrance requirement may still gain places if they meet a relatively lower requirement and their parents are willing to pay for the additional fees. Some parents appreciate the idea as they may send their children to good schools even though they may not be academically qualified, while others believe that it is not fair for someone who has a background of poverty.\n\nThe public spending on schools in China has been uneven due to insufficient investment in education. This condition is in favor of urban schools and it is promoted by past policies such as the mandate for rural public schools to have a higher student-to-teacher ratio. The inequality of resources is exacerbated by the way public schools in urban areas enjoy more support since local governments have more developed economies. Aside from the disparity between urban and rural public schools, there was also the dichotomized system adopted since 1978, which divided schools into two groups: key schools (\"zhongdianxiao\") and non-key schools (\"putongxiao\"). Key schools receive more funding due to the goal of developing first-class education in a limited number of schools in a short period of time. The key school system was canceled by the 2006 amendment to the Compulsory Education Law, along with the introduction of reforms that address education inequality. \n\nThe Danish School system is supported today by tax-based governmental and municipal funding from day care through primary and secondary education to higher education and there are no tuition fees for regular students in public schools and universities.\n\nThe Danish public primary schools, covering the entire period of compulsory education, are called \"folkeskoler\" (literally 'people's schools' or 'public schools'). The \"Folkeskole\" consists of a pre-school class (mandatory since 2009), the 9-year obligatory course and a voluntary 11th year. It thus caters for pupils aged 6 to 17.\n\nIt is also possible for parents to send their children to various kinds of private schools. These schools also receive government funding, although they are not public. In addition to this funding, these schools may charge a fee from the parents.\n\nThe French educational system is highly centralised, organised, and ramified. It is divided into three stages:\n\nSchooling in France is mandatory as of age 6, the first year of primary school. Many parents start sending their children earlier though, around age 3 as kindergarten classes (\"maternelle\") are usually affiliated to a borough's (\"commune\") primary school. Some even start earlier at age 2 in \"pré-maternelle\" or \"garderie\" class, which is essentially a daycare facility.\n\nFrench secondary education is divided into two schools:\n\nThe completion of secondary studies leads to the \"baccalauréat\".\n\nThe \"baccalauréat\" (also known as \"bac\") is the end-of-\"lycée\" diploma students sit for in order to enter university, a \"Classe préparatoire aux grandes écoles\", or professional life. The term \"baccalauréat\" refers to the diploma and the examinations themselves. It is comparable to British A-Levels, American SATs, the Irish Leaving Certificate and German Abitur.\n\nMost students sit for the \"baccalauréat général\" which is divided into 3 streams of study, called \"séries\". The \"série scientifique\" (S) is concerned with mathematics and natural sciences, the \"série économique et sociale\" (ES) with economics and social sciences, and the \"série littéraire\" (L) focuses on French and foreign languages and philosophy.\n\nThe \"Grandes écoles\" of France are higher education establishments outside the mainstream framework of the public universities. They are generally focused on a single subject area, such as engineering, have a moderate size, and are often quite (sometimes extremely) selective in their admission of students. They are widely regarded as prestigious, and traditionally have produced most of France's scientists and executives.\n\nEducation in Germany is provided to a large extent by the government, with control coming from state level, \"(Länder)\" and funding coming from two levels: federal and state. Curricula, funding, teaching, and other policies are set through the respective state's ministry of education. Decisions about the acknowledgment of private schools (the German equivalent to accreditation in the US) are also made by these ministries. However, public schools are automatically recognised, since these schools are supervised directly by the ministry of education bureaucracy.\n\nAlthough the first kindergarten in the world was opened in 1840 by Friedrich Wilhelm August Fröbel in the German town of Bad Blankenburg, and the term kindergarten is even a loanword from the German language, they are not part of the German school system. Article 7 Paragraph 6 of the German constitution (the \"Grundgesetz\") abolished pre-school as part of the German school system. However, virtually all German kindergartens are public. They are either directly run by municipal governments, or contracted out, most often, to the two largest Christian churches in Germany. These municipal kindergartens are financed by taxes and progressive income-based customer fees, but are not considered part of the public school system.\nA German public school does not charge tuition fees. The first stage of the German public school system is the \"Grundschule\". (Primary School – 1st to 4th grade or, in Berlin and Brandenburg, 1st to 6th grade) After Grundschule (at 10 or 12 years of age), there are four secondary schooling options:\nA Gesamtschule largely corresponds to an American high school. However, it offers the same school leaving certificates as the other three types of German secondary schools: the Hauptschulabschluss (school leaving certificate of a Hauptschule after 9th Grade or in Berlin and North Rhine-Westphalia after 10th grade), the Realschulabschluss, also called Mittlere Reife, (school leaving certificate of a Realschule after 10th grade) and Abitur, also called Hochschulreife, after 13th or seldom after 12th grade. Students who graduate from Hauptschule or Realschule continue their schooling at a vocational school until they have full job qualifications.\nThis type of German school, the \"Berufsschule\", is generally an upper-secondary public vocational school, controlled by the German federal government. It is part of Germany's dual education system. Students who graduate from a vocational school and students who graduate with good GPA from a Realschule can continue their schooling at another type of German public secondary school, the \"Fachoberschule\", a vocational high school. The school leaving exam of this type of school, the \"Fachhochschulreife\", enables the graduate to start studying at a Fachhochschule (polytechnic), and in Hesse also at a university within the state. The Abitur from a Gesamtschule or Gymnasium enables the graduate to start studying at a polytechnic or at a university in all states of Germany.\n\nA number of schools for mature students exists. Schools such as the Abendrealschule serve students that are headed for the Mittlere Reife. Schools such as the Aufbaugymnasium or the Abendgymnasium prepare students for college and finish with the Abitur. These schools are usually free of charge.\n\nIn Germany, most institutions of higher education are subsidised by German states and are therefore also referred to as \"staatliche Hochschulen.\" (public universities) In most German states, admission to public universities is still cheap, about two hundred Euro per semester. In 2005, many states introduced additional fees of 500 Euro per semester to achieve a better teaching-quality; however, all of these states (except Lower Saxony, which will follow in 2014/15) have abolished tuition fees as of autumn 2013. Nevertheless, additional fees for guest or graduate students are charged by many universities.\n\nIn Hong Kong the term \"government schools\" is used for free schools funded by the government.\n\nThere are also subsidised schools (which are the majority in Hong Kong and many of which are run by religious organisations), \"Direct Subsidy Scheme\" schools, private schools and international schools in Hong Kong. Some schools are international schools, which are not subsidised by the government.\n\nDuring British rule, a number of state higher education establishments were set up (such as Universities in Chennai, Kolkata, and Mumbai), but little was done by the British in terms of primary and secondary schooling. Other indigenous forms of education are being revived in various ways across India. According to current estimates, 80% of all Indian schools are government schools making the government the major provider of education. However, because of the poor quality of public education, 27% of Indian children are privately educated.\nAccording to some research, private schools often provide superior educational results at a fraction of the unit cost of government schools. The teacher to student ratio is usually much lower in private schools than in the government ones, creating more competitive students.\nEducation in India is provided by the public sector as well as the private sector, with control and funding coming from three levels: federal, state, and local. The Nalanda University was the oldest university-system of education in the world.[2] Western education became ingrained into Indian society with the establishment of the British Raj.\n\nIn Ireland, post-primary education comprises secondary, community and comprehensive schools, as well as community colleges (formerly vocational schools). Secondary schools are privately owned and managed. Community colleges are state-established and administered by Education and Training Boards (ETBs), while community and comprehensive schools are managed by Boards of Management of differing compositions.\n\nPrivately owned and managed secondary schools receive a direct grant from the state, and are subdivided into fee-paying and non fee-paying schools. The vast majority of these schools are operated by religious organisations, primarily the Catholic Church and the Church of Ireland. The charging of fees is a decision of the individual school. The Irish Constitution requires the State to \"endeavour to supplement and give reasonable aid to private and corporate educational initiative, and, when the public good requires it, provide other educational facilities or institutions with due regard, however, for the rights of parents, especially in the matter of religious and moral formation.\" In practice, most people are educated by Catholic institutions as there are few alternatives in much of the country. Non fee-paying secondary schools are usually considered to be public or state schools, while private school and fee-paying schools are considered synonymous. This is colloquial and not technically accurate.\n\nAll schools which are provided for by the State, including privately run and fee-paying secondary schools, teach the national curriculum. All students are expected to take the standardised Junior Certificate examination after three years. An optional non-academic Transition Year is provided by most but not all schools immediately following the Junior Certificate. Students subsequently take one of three Leaving Certificate programmes: the traditional Leaving Certificate, the Leaving Certificate Vocational Programme (LCVP) or the Leaving Certificate Applied (LCA). The vast majority of students in Ireland take the traditional Leaving Certificate. Both the traditional Leaving Certificate and the Leaving Certificate Vocational Programme can lead to third-level education, with LCVP more focused on practical skills.\n\nMost students attend public schools through the lower secondary level, but private education is popular at the upper secondary and university levels.\n\nKoryo Dynasty (고려)\n\nThe first public education system on record was put in place during Koryo Dynasty. The national school system was put in place under Hak-Je (학제 | 學制 | Education Policy) enacted by King SeongJong which was modelled after the public education systems of Song Dynasty and Tang Dynasty, China. Hak-Je involved operating national universities, called Gukjagam and DongSeoHakDang in the capital and called HyangAk in other regions. In King SeongJong Year 6, 987 A.D., a pair of a medical doctor and a scholarly doctor were appointed to administer academic systems and curriculums at Hyang-Ak: scholarly education included subjects of geography, history, math, law, and others. In King SeongJong Year 11, 992 A.D., the first known national public schools called Ju-Hak (주학 | 州學) were opened in each Ju and Gun, states and counties, to improve nationwide academic performances.\n\nJoseon Dynasty (조선)\n\nJoseon changed the name of the university to Seonggyungwan (성균관).\n\nDae-Han-Je-Guk (대한제국)\n\nIm-Si-Jeong-Bu (임시정부)\n\nDae-Han-Min-Guk (대한민국, a.k.a. South Korea)\n\nAfter the seize fire agreement for the civil war was declared, north and south states of Korea established their own education system.\n\nIn South Korea, education in public schools (1-12) is compulsory with the exception of kindergarten. All aspects of public education are the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, which executes administration of schools, allocation of funding, certification of teachers and schools, and curriculum development with standardised textbooks across the country.\n\nIn the year 2000, South Korea spent 4.2% of its GDP in education. As of 2007 UN Education Index, South Korea is ranked 8th in the world.\n\nEducation in Malaysia is overseen by two government ministries: the Ministry of Education for matters up to the secondary level, and the Ministry of Higher Education for tertiary education. Although education is the responsibility of the federal government, each state has an Education Department to help co-ordinate educational matters in their respective states. The main legislation governing education is the Education Act of 1996.\n\nEducation may be obtained from government-sponsored schools, private schools, or through homeschooling. By law, primary education is compulsory. As in other Asian countries such as Singapore and China, standardised tests are a common feature.\n\nBoth state and state-integrated schools are government-funded. The latter are former private schools which are now \"integrated\" into the state system under the \"Private Schools Conditional Integration Act 1975\" \"on a basis which will preserve and safeguard the special character of the education provided by them\". According to an OECD report, about 86% of all school-aged children attend state schools and 10% attend state integrated schools.\n\nThe government provides education as a right—it is freely available up to the end of the calendar year following a student's 19th birthday. Primary and secondary education is compulsory for students between the ages of 6 and 16, although in practice most children enrol at school on their 5th birthday. Most students start at age 5 and remain in school for the full 13 years. While there is overlap in some schools, primary school ends at Year 8 and secondary school at Year 13. The last two years of primary school are normally considered intermediate school instead of primary school, and is normally a school in itself, leaving primary school to end at Year 6.\n\nPublic schools in the Philippines are run by the Department of Education. Some public schools collect miscellaneous school fees for the better utilisation of school extra-curricular activities and/or for improving school equipment and services.\n\nIn some countries, such as Brazil and Mexico, the term \"public schools\" (\"escuelas públicas\" in Spanish, \"escolas públicas\" in Portuguese) is used for educational institutions owned by the federal, state, or city governments which do not charge tuition. Such schools exist in all levels of education, from the very beginning through post-secondary studies. Mexico has nine years of free and compulsory primary and secondary education.\nEducation in Argentina is a responsibility shared by the national government, the provinces and federal district and private institutions, though basic guidelines have historically been set by the Ministry of Education. Closely associated in Argentina with President Domingo Sarmiento's assertion that \"the sovereign should be educated\" (\"sovereign\" referring to the people), education has been extended nearly universally and its maintenance remains central to political and cultural debate. Even though education at all levels, including universities, has always been free, there is a large number of private schools and universities.\n\nEducation in Russia is provided predominantly by the state and is regulated by the Ministry of Education and Science. Regional authorities regulate education within their jurisdictions within the prevailing framework of federal laws. Russia's expenditure on education has grown from 2.7% of the GDP in 2005 to 3.8% in 2013, but remains below the OECD average of 5.2%.\n\nThe Church of Scotland was established in 1560, during the Protestant Reformation period as the official state religion in Scotland, and in the following year it set out to provide a school in every parish controlled by the local kirk-session, with education to be provided free to the poor, and the expectation that church pressure would ensure that all children took part. In the year of 1633 the Parliament of Scotland introduced local taxation to fund this provision. Schooling was not free, but the tax support kept fees low, and the church and charity funded poorer students. This had considerable success, but by the late 18th century the physical extent of some parishes and population growth in others led to an increasing role for \"adventure schools\" funded from fees and for schools funded by religious charities, initially Protestant and later Roman Catholic.\n\nIn 1872 education for all children aged 5 to 13 was made compulsory with \"public schools\" (in the Scots meaning of schools for the general public) under local school boards. The leaving age was raised to 14 in 1883, and a Leaving Certificate Examination was introduced in 1888 to set national standards for secondary education. School fees were ended in 1890. The Scottish Education Department ran the system centrally, with local authorities running the schools with considerable autonomy. In 1999, following devolution from the Parliament of the United Kingdom to the new Scottish Parliament, central organisation of education was taken over by departments of the Scottish Executive, with running the schools coming under unitary authority districts.\nIn Scotland, the term \"public school\", in official use since 1872, traditionally means \"a state-controlled school run by the local burgh or county education authority, generally non-fee-paying and supported by contributions from local and national taxation\". Largely due to the earlier introduction of state-administered universal education in Scotland and opposed to the rest of the United Kingdom, the term became associated with state schools. The designation was incorporated into the name of many of these older publicly run institutions.\n\nChildren in Scottish state schools (or public schools) typically start primary school, or attend a junior school, aged between four and a half and five and a half depending on when the child's birthday falls. Children born between March and August would start school at the age of five years and those born between September and February start school at age four-and-a-half. Pupils remain at primary school for seven years completing Primary One to Seven.\n\nThen aged eleven or twelve, pupils start secondary school for a compulsory period of four years, with a final two years thereafter being optional. Pupils take Standard Grade examinations at the age of fifteen/sixteen, sometimes earlier, most often for up to eight subjects. These include compulsory exams in English, mathematics, a foreign language, a science subject and a social subject. It is now a requirement of the Scottish Government that all pupils have two hours of physical education a week. Each school may arrange these compulsory requirements in different combinations. The minimum school leaving age is generally sixteen, after completion of Standard Grade examinations. Pupils who continue their school education after the age of sixteen, may choose to study for Access, Intermediate or Higher Grade and Advanced Higher exams.\n\nThe Curriculum for Excellence was introduced to secondary schools in session 2012/2013. The assessment of pupils' attainment will change, with 'National' qualifications replacing most Standard Grade and Intermediate Grade qualifications.\n\nIn South Africa, a state school or government school refers to a school that is state-controlled. These are officially called public schools according to the South African Schools Act of 1996, but it is a term that is not used colloquially. The Act recognised two categories of schools: public and independent. Independent schools include all private schools and schools that are privately governed. Independent schools with low tuition fees are state-aided and receive a subsidy on a sliding-scale. Traditional private schools that charge high fees receive no state subsidy.\n\nState schools are all state-owned, including section 21 schools (formerly referred to as \"model C\" or semi-private schools) that have a governing body and a degree of budget autonomy, as these are still fully owned and accountable to the state.\n\nMost of the schools in Sri Lanka are maintained by the government as a part of the free education. With the establishment of the provincial council system in the 1980s the central government handed control of most schools to local governments. However the old schools which had been around since the colonial times were retained by the central government, thus creating three types of government schools: National Schools, Provincial Schools, and Piriven.\n\nNational Schools come under the direct control of the Ministry of Education therefore have direct funding from the ministry. Provincial Schools consists of the vast majority of schools in Sri Lanka which are funded and controlled by the local governments. Piriven are monastic college (similar to a seminary) for the education of Buddhist priests. These have been the centres of secondary and higher education in ancient times for lay people as well. Today these are funded and maintained by the Ministry of Education.\n\nSwedish state schools are funded by tax money. This goes for both primary schools (Swedish: \"grundskola\"), and secondary school (Swedish: \"gymnasium\") and universities. When studying at a university, however, you might have to pay for accommodation and literature. There are private schools as well who also receive funding from the government, but they may charge a fee from the parents.\n\nCompulsory education starts at seven years of age, with an optional year in \"förskola\" (pre-school). The Swedish primary school is split into three parts; \"Lågstadiet\" – “the low stage”, which covers grades 1 to 3. This is where you learn the basics of the three main subjects – in Swedish called \"kärnämnen\" – Swedish, English and mathematics. It also includes some natural science. \"Mellanstadiet\" – “the middle stage”, which covers grades 4 to 6, introduces the children to more detailed subjects. Woodwork and needlework, social and domestic science, and even a second, foreign language in grade 6, a \"B-språk\" (B-language). The languages available are usually French, Spanish or German depending on the school. \"Högstadiet\", “the high stage”, is the last stage of the compulsory education, between grades 7 and 9. This is when studies get more in-depth and are taken to an international level.\n\nSwedish children take national exams at grades 3, 6 and 9. Children at grade 3 take these exams in two of the three main subjects: Swedish and mathematics. In grade 5 the exams extend to the third main subject, English, and in grade 9 the exams also extend to natural science, foreign languages, and one of the four subjects in \"Samhällsorientering\" (geography, history, religious studies, and civics). They first receive grades in grade 6. The grading system is letter-based, ranging from A-F, where F is the lowest grade and A is the highest. F means \"not approved\", while all other ratings above F mean \"approved\". There are only objectives for E, C and A; D means the person has met most (but not all) objectives for C, while B means the person has met most objectives for A. When applying to \"gymnasium\" (high schools) or universities, a \"meritvärde\" (“meritous point value”) is calculated. E is worth 10 points, D 12.5 points, C 15 points, and so on. Children not being approved in Swedish, English and mathematics will have to study at a special high school program called the “individual program”. Once they are approved, they may apply to an ordinary high school program. Swedes study at high school for three years, between the ages of 16 and 18.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the term \"state school\" refers to government-funded schools which provide education free of charge to pupils. The contrast to this are fee-paying schools, such as \"independent (or private) schools\" and \"public schools\".\n\nIn England and Wales, the term \"public school\" is used to refer to fee-paying schools. \"Public\" as in they are open to anyone who can meet the fees, distinguished from religious schools which are open only to members of that religion. Some people call only the older fee-paying schools, \"public schools\" (for example, schools such as Eton College and Charterhouse School), while others use the term for any such school.\n\nIn Scotland, where the educational system is completely different from the rest of UK, the Church of Scotland was established in 1560, during the Protestant Reformation period as the official state religion, and in the following year it set out to provide a school in every parish controlled by the local kirk-session, with education to be provided free to the poor, and the expectation that church pressure would ensure that all children took part. In the year of 1633 the Parliament of Scotland introduced local taxation to fund this provision. Schooling was not free, but the tax support kept fees low, and the church and charity funded poorer students. This had considerable success, but by the late 18th century the physical extent of some parishes and population growth in others led to an increasing role for \"adventure schools\" funded from fees and for schools funded by religious charities, initially Protestant and later Roman Catholic.\nIn 1872 education for all children aged 5 to 13 was made compulsory with \"public schools\" (in the Scots meaning of schools for the general public) under local school boards. The leaving age was raised to 14 in 1883, and a Leaving Certificate Examination was introduced in 1888 to set national standards for secondary education. School fees were ended in 1890. The Scottish Education Department ran the system centrally, with local authorities running the schools with considerable autonomy. In 1999, following devolution from the Parliament of the United Kingdom to the new Scottish Parliament, central organisation of education was taken over by departments of the Scottish Executive, with running the schools coming under unitary authority districts.\n\nIn Scotland, the term \"public school\", in official use since 1872, traditionally means \"a state-controlled school run by the local burgh or county education authority, generally non-fee-paying and supported by contributions from local and national taxation\". Largely due to the earlier introduction of state-administered universal education in Scotland and opposed to the rest of the United Kingdom, the term became associated with state schools. The designation was incorporated into the name of many of these older publicly run institutions.\nChildren in Scottish state schools (or public schools) typically start primary school, or attend a junior school, aged between four and a half and five and a half depending on when the child's birthday falls. Children born between March and August would start school at the age of five years and those born between September and February start school at age four-and-a-half. Pupils remain at primary school for seven years completing Primary One to Seven.\nThen aged eleven or twelve, pupils start secondary school for a compulsory period of four years, with a final two years thereafter being optional. Pupils take Standard Grade examinations at the age of fifteen/sixteen, sometimes earlier, most often for up to eight subjects. These include compulsory exams in English, mathematics, a foreign language, a science subject and a social subject. It is now a requirement of the Scottish Government that all pupils have two hours of physical education a week. Each school may arrange these compulsory requirements in different combinations. The minimum school leaving age is generally sixteen, after completion of Standard Grade examinations. Pupils who continue their school education after the age of sixteen, may choose to study for Access, Intermediate or Higher Grade and Advanced Higher exams.\nThe Curriculum for Excellence was introduced to secondary schools in session 2012/2013. The assessment of pupils' attainment will change, with 'National' qualifications replacing most Standard Grade and Intermediate Grade qualifications.\n\nThroughout education in the UK, the vast majority of state-funded schools are under the control of local councils (local education authorities in England and Wales, Department of Education in Northern Ireland), and are referred to in official literature as \"maintained schools\". The exceptions are a minority of secondary schools in England funded directly by central government, known as academies and City Technology Colleges.\n\nThe National Curriculum is followed in all local council maintained schools in England, Northern Ireland and Wales. State schools in Wales, including Welsh-medium schools, are controlled by the Welsh Government. Academies, which are state schools, but not maintained by local authorities, have more freedom to adapt the National Curriculum. In Northern Ireland secondary-level schools are divided into grammar schools, secondary schools and Catholic-maintained schools, with an increasing number of Integrated schools. There are also a small number of voluntary Irish-language schools.\n\nSome state schools, known as faith schools, have formal links with religious organisations, and are permitted to promote a particular religious ethos and to use faith criteria in their admissions. Some maintained schools are partially funded by religious or other charitable bodies; these are known as voluntary controlled schools, voluntary aided schools or foundation schools.\n\nThe oldest state school in England is Beverley Grammar School, which was founded in 700 AD.\n\nIn the United States, the term \"state school\" is colloquial for state university, a college, or a university in a state university system. Instead, the term \"public school\" is used for elementary, middle, and high schools funded and/or run by a governmental entity. \"Private school\" generally refers to primary, secondary and tertiary educational institutions that are not government-owned; in practice the term is generally used to refer to non-sectarian schools.\n\nElementary, middle, and high schools that are operated by a religious organisation are commonly called \"parochial schools\" (though, in practice, the term is generally used to refer only to schools operated by the Catholic Church or some other mainline denomination; the term \"Christian school\" is generally used to refer to schools operated by Evangelical, Pentecostal/Charismatic, or Fundamentalist Christian churches).\n\nThe role of the federal government in education is limited and indirect. Direct control of education is a power reserved to the states under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution because the Constitution does not explicitly or implicitly give the federal government authority to regulate education. However, any public or private school that accepts educational funding from the federal government, including participation in collegiate federal financial aid programs (such as Pell Grants and Stafford Loans), by accepting the funds or participating in a particular federal program, subjects itself to federal jurisdiction to the extent of that participation.\n\nThe United States Department of Education supervises the role of the federal government in education. Direct regulation of public, private and parochial schools is done by state and territorial governments, in Washington, D.C., by the District Government. Broad regulation of public schools is typically accomplished through a state education agency and a state department of education. There is usually a Superintendent (education)|state superintendent of schools, who is appointed or elected to co-ordinate the state department of education, the state \"board\" of education, and the state legislature itself. Statewide education policies are disseminated to school \"districts\" or their equivalents. They are associated with counties, or with groups of counties, but their boundaries are not necessarily coterminous with county boundaries. The intermediate school districts encompass many local school districts. The local school districts operate with their own local boards, which oversee operations of the individual schools within their jurisdiction.\n\nIn most states, the county or regional \"intermediate\" school districts merely implement state education policy and provide the channels through which a local district communicates with a state board of education, state superintendent, and department of education. They do not establish county or regional policies of their own.\n\nLocal school districts are administered by local school boards, which operate public elementary and high schools within their boundaries. Public schools are often funded by local taxpayers, and most school boards are elected. However, some states have adopted new funding models that are not dependent upon the local economy.\nPublic schools are provided mainly by local governments. Curricula, funding, teaching, and other policies are set through locally elected school boards by jurisdiction over school districts. The school districts are special-purpose districts authorised by provisions of state law. Generally, state governments set minimum standards relating to almost all activities of elementary and high schools, as well as funding and authorisation to enact local school taxes to support the schools, primarily through real property taxes. The federal government funds aid to states and school districts that meet minimum federal standards. School accreditation decisions are made by voluntary regional associations. The first free public school in America was the Syms-Eaton Academy (1634) in Hampton, Virginia, and the first tax-supported public school in America was in Dedham, Massachusetts, founded by Rev. Ralph Wheelock. In the United States, 88% of students attend public schools, compared with 9% who attend parochial schools, 1% who attend private independent schools, and 2% who are homeschooled.\n\nPublic school is normally split up into three stages: elementary school (kindergarten to 5th or 6th grade), middle (\"intermediate\" or junior high school) from 5th, 6th, or 7th grade to 8th or 9th grade, and high school (9th or 10th to 12th grade).\n\nThe middle school format is increasingly common in which the elementary school contains kindergarten or 1st grade to 5th or 6th grade and the middle School contains 6th or 7th and 8th grade. In addition, some elementary schools are splitting into two levels, sometimes in separate buildings: elementary school (usually K-2) and intermediate (3-5).\n\nThe K-8 format is also an emerging popular concept in which students may attend only two schools for all of their K-12 education. Many charter schools feature the K-8 format in which all elementary grades are housed in one section of the school, and the traditional junior high school students are housed in another section of the school. Some very small school districts, primarily in rural areas, still maintain a K-12 system in which all students are housed in a single school. A few 7-12 schools also exist.\n\nIn the United States, institutions of higher education that are operated and subsidised by the states are also referred to as \"public.\" However, unlike public high schools, public universities charge tuition, but fees are usually much lower than those charged by private universities, particularly for students who meet in-state residency criteria. Community colleges, state colleges, and state universities are examples of public institutions of higher education. In particular, many state universities are regarded as among the best institutions of higher education in the US but usually are surpassed in ranking by certain private universities and colleges, such as those of the Ivy League, which are often very expensive and extremely selective in the students they accept. In several states, the administrations of public universities are elected via the general electoral ballot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6074403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6074403", "title": "The Brains Trust", "text": "The Brains Trust\n\nThe Brains Trust was a popular informational BBC radio and later television programme in the United Kingdom during the 1940s and 1950s, on which a panel of experts tried to answer questions sent in by the audience.\n\nThe series was created by BBC producers Howard Thomas and Douglas Cleverdon. The programme started on the Forces radio service in January 1941, the first series under the name \"Any Questions?\" (a name later reused for a different radio programme). Subsequently renamed \"The Brains Trust\", it continued for 84 weeks continuously from its initial broadcast and became one of the most popular of informational programmes. Because of its popularity, it was moved to the peak time on Sunday afternoons. It was typically heard by around 29% of the UK population and generated four to five thousand letters each week from the general public. During the early war years it helped raise morale on the Home Front, and the verbal sparring between its three original panel members, especially Julian Huxley and Cyril Joad, made it one of the most popular programmes with listeners.(2)\n\nThe radio programme ended in May 1949 and transferred to BBC television in the 1950s. The soundtrack was broadcast on the Home Service during the week following the television broadcast.\n\nThe programme enjoyed a brief revival in the late 1990s and early 2000s, when it was broadcast on BBC Radio 3. It was then presented by Joan Bakewell. It featured a variety of guests, including Theodore Zeldin, Ian Stewart, A.S. Byatt, Richard Dawkins and Angela Tilby.\n\nThe original three members of the broadcasting team were C. E. M. Joad (philosopher and psychologist), Julian Huxley (biologist) and Commander A. B. Campbell (retired naval officer). The chairman was Donald McCullough. Later participants included: Edward Andrade, Noel Annan, A. J. Ayer, Michael Ayrton, Isaiah Berlin, Jacob Bronowski, Collin Brooks, Violet Bonham Carter, Alan Bullock, Anthony Chenevix-Trench, Kenneth Clark, Margery Fry, Commander Rupert Gould, Will Hay, Bishop Joost de Blank, C. S. Lewis, John Maud, Herbert Hart, Malcolm Muggeridge (chairman), Anna Neagle, Egon Ronay, Bertrand Russell, Sir Malcolm Sargent, Hannen Swaffer, Gwyn Thomas (novelist), Geoffrey Crowther (as chairman), Lord Dunsany, Barbara Ward and Tom Wintringham.\n\nNorman Fisher was a later chairman of the panel.\n\nHugh Ross Williamson was also on the panel on occasion and was Chairman in 1955\n\nThe concept was simple. Listeners or viewers sent in questions on subjects ranging from practical conundrums to moral dilemmas for the panel members to answer. The panellists were chosen for the unique contributions each could bring to the subject matter – from the most erudite and serious to the most irreverent and comedic. One question which has become a classic example of its kind was 'How does a fly land on a ceiling? Does it loop the loop, or what?'. Although questions on religion and politics were initially included, these were banned as the programme progressed, following complaints from the Church and Government. Concern also arose with the BBC itself. One controller, A.P.Ryan, wrote to the Director-General complaining of the programme's political bias. The Controller of Programmes analysed the political attitudes of contributors and calculated a proportion of\ntwenty-five left-wing and twenty-eight right-wing along with three 'doubtfuls'. He agreed, however, that two of the three regulars, Joad and Huxley,\nwere left-wing. They were also agnostics, a matter of irritation to Dr J.W. Welch, the Director of Religious Broadcasting. In June 1941 the Controller of Programmes instructed the panel to 'avoid all questions involving religion, political philosophy or vague generalities about life'. In June of\nthe following year the Board of Governors came down with full force on religion: 'questions about religion were in future to be excluded from the Brains Trust programmes'.\n\nThe conversation was free-wheeling, unscripted and unrehearsed, relying on the skills of the presenters to fashion cogent responses in the time available. This produced an 'edge-of-the-seat' feel to the performance which did much to add to its popularity.\n\nAn American version of this programme, devised and produced by then television producer/director Jeff Smith, aired on WTTW Channel 11, the PBS television outlet in Chicago in the early sixties with an original revolving \"cast\" of Alec Sutherland, Director of Continuing Education at the University of Chicago; Paul Haggerty, a former vaudevillian, musician and raconteur; Robin Pearce, an artist, film maker, lecturer on the fine arts and a world traveller; Paul Schilpp, a professor of philosophy at Northwestern University; Dick Applegate, foreign correspondent, TV newsman and commentator; Dan Q Posin, DePaul University Professor and host of his own television programme on WTTW, \"Dr. Posin’s Universe\"; Nathan Schwartz, philanthropist and raconteur; Ralph Eisendrath, lawyer and civic leader; and moderator DJR Bruckner, at that time a labour writer for the Chicago Sun Times and for many years after that, a theater critic for the New York Times. Only four panellists plus the moderator appeared on each programme.\n\nIn contrast to the British programme, the questions for the American spin-off were revealed to the team beforehand so that they could have some time to think about them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8861950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8861950", "title": "The First Year Experience Program", "text": "The First Year Experience Program\n\nThe First-Year Experience (FYE) (also known as the Freshman-Year Experience or the Freshman Seminar Program) is a program at many American colleges and universities designed to help students prepare for the transition from high school to college. FYE programs often foster the participation of students in co-curricular events such as common reads, concerts, art exhibits, and guest lectures.\n\nDepending on the school, the course can last anywhere from two weeks to a full school year. Some larger universities, such as the University at Albany, SUNY, through their Project Renaissance Program,create a \"small college\" feel by allowing freshmen to do their first-year courses in one section of the university. \n\nWhile the origins of the program remain unclear, many people attribute the start of the First-Year Seminar to the University of South Carolina, which houses the National Resource Center for the First-Year Experience and Students in Transition and holds a series of workshops for colleges and universities to better their own first-year programs.\n\nOriginally, Boston College was where the first Freshman Orientation class was offered in the year 1888. Reed College, based in Portland, Oregon, was the first institution to offer a course for credit when, in 1911, they offered a course that was divided into men-only and women-only sections that met for 2 hours per week for the year. \n\nIn May 1970, University of South Carolina President Thomas Jones faced campus unrest and violence. In the aftermath he vowed to create a new course designed to \"bond students to the institution and transform the way that undergraduate students were taught.\" In 1972, Carolina introduced \"University 101,\" designed to \"improve the educational experiences of first-year college students.\"\n\nCarolina's program became a model for colleges and universities across the country, and in 1982, representatives from 175 schools came to Carolina to meet about the first-year experience. In 1983, Carolina's University 101 faculty director, John N. Gardner, organized the first Annual Conference on the Freshman Year Experience. \n\nIn 1986, Carolina partnered with the Newcastle-upon-Tyne Polytechnic to produce the first International Conference on the First-Year Experience. Also in 1986, Carolina established the National Resource Center; as it broadened its focus it underwent a number of name changes, settling on the National Resource Center for the First-Year Experience and Students in Transition in 1998. As the Center states on its website:\nMany of the colleges and universities that use the program require that all incoming freshmen take the freshman seminar; other schools have the program as optional, but recommended. Most first-year seminars are a semester long and start at student orientation. From orientation, students enroll in the course, which gives them a variety of college experiences, from tours of the campus to a breakdown of how to study for tests. Many schools even offer students help with purchasing books from the school's bookstore.\n\nFor instance, as part of Mitchell College's First-Year Experience (FYE) program for transitioning into college, first-year students are assigned to Freshman Interest Groups (FIGs) in their first semester according to a common academic interest or major. These groups explore the topics and issues related to their chosen path. Those who arrive at Mitchell undecided about their academic route are also grouped together to allow for a broader survey of options. Students are encouraged to communicate their unique perspective and make connections through co-curricular activities.\n\nColby College's outdoor orientation COOT (Colby Outdoor Orientation Trips) program is designed to ease new students' transition into college and introduce them to Maine's cultural and natural resources. COOT features an on-campus orientation and a variety of trips, including hiking trips at Acadia National Park and Mount Katahdin canoe trips on the Kennebec and Moose Rivers, and other trips around the state. There are over 60 different trips, designed to appeal to incoming students with a variety of interests and fitness levels, and more \"front country\" trips have been added in recent years, including service- and arts-oriented options such as an organic farm stay and a challenge course. COOT leaders are chosen from upperclass students who apply for these positions, and are expected to help the students both during and after the trip with the adjustment to campus life.\n\nIn 1991, Norman Adler initiated the Penn Reading Project at the University of Pennsylvania, an integrative introduction to liberal learning for college freshmen newly arriving on campus. Subsequently, Freshman Reading Projects have been adopted widely as part of the first-year experience at many college campuses.\n\nAs a standard for most first-year seminars, many colleges give students one to two credits for completing the program, such as UC Irvine. Many schools, such as the State University of New York at Old Westbury in Old Westbury, New York, merge the program into a second course which helps to satisfy New York's general education requirement. In addition, the school recently introduced its Civic Engagement program, which is designed to allow students to participate in community service as a part of its First-Year Experience program.\n\nThe University of South Carolina hosts a seminar every year in which the many colleges and universities which have the First-Year Program get together to improve their own programs, and to offer suggestions to their colleagues on how they might also improve. The workshop is usually a week long and attendance is voluntary.\n\nThe University of North Carolina at Greensboro's First-Year Experience program is called University Studies 101 (UNS 101). The program aims to assist students in discovering their purpose, identifying their strengths, and aligning these newly discovered assets with a plan for their future. The activities, class discussions, and assignments used in the course guide students through the six appreciative advising stages. A comprehensive program evaluation which includes the tracking of academic outcomes and assessment of student attitudes and behaviors has evidenced the positive impact of the UNS 101 program. For example, the freshman to sophomore retention rate of freshmen who completed UNS 101 in fall 2006 and returned for fall 2007 was 81.9%. This compares to a retention rate of 74.4% for freshmen who did not take the course. Meanwhile, the average first-semester GPA for students who did not take the course was 2.49, while UNS 101 participants had an average first-semester GPA of 2.72.\n\nJ.N. Gardner, member of The Journal of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers and author of The freshman-year experience, emphasized the importance of having courses that focus on the first few weeks of college. During this time is most likely when students will make the decision to drop-out, due to the increase of feeling personal independence and habit forming, as well as forming relationships that they will continue throughout their college careers. Gardner also suggested that things such as curriculum modifications, academic advisement, faculty led freshmen level courses instead of graduate student led, living/learning environments, peer counseling, and special freshmen administrative units improve the student’s freshman year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13033252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13033252", "title": "The Substitute 2: School's Out", "text": "The Substitute 2: School's Out\n\nThe Substitute 2: School's Out is a 1998 straight-to-DVD action-crime-thriller film directed by Steven Pearl and starring Treat Williams as Carl Thomasson (later spelled Karl in the sequels), a mercenary who masquerades as a teacher in order to enter a tough urban school and wreak his revenge upon his brother's killer. \n\nThe film has very little connection to \"The Substitute\", other than Joey Six (protagonist Jonathan Shale's only surviving mercenary in the first film, this time portrayed by Angel David instead of Raymond Cruz) aiding Thomasson during the course of the movie. A reference early in the film indicates, through a photograph and short conversation between Thomasson and Joey Six, that Shale and Jane Hetzko (Shale's girlfriend) had married and now teach in foreign nations as part of the Peace Corps. It is also noted that Shale and Thomasson had served in the Army, as well as working as mercenaries together. \n\nRandall Thomasson is gunned down while attempting to talk his way out of a carjacking. His brother, Karl, attends his funeral and attempts to make amends with his niece, who is angry that Karl never contacted her or her father.\n\nKarl decides to investigate his brother's death, and goes undercover as a teacher, facing cynical and reluctant faculty, violent and disruptive students, and a system that—to Karl's eyes—has become broken from the inside, all while attempting to protect his teenage niece.\n\nRecruiting Joey Six, and a rather unorthodox janitor, Thomasson turns the school into an after-hours battleground, fighting against well-armed gang members, and—eventually—the school's auto-repair teacher (B. D. Wong), who is also involved in the gang's 'chop-shop' operation.\n\n"}
{"id": "13507035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13507035", "title": "University of the Air (CBC radio series)", "text": "University of the Air (CBC radio series)\n\nUniversity of the Air was an educational radio programme produced by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation from the late 1950s until 1965, consisting of recorded lectures on various subjects.\n\nIn 1965, both this programme and another CBC radio programme, \"The Learning Stage\", were replaced in favour of a new show, \"Ideas\", which is still broadcast on CBC Radio One.\n\n\n"}
