{"id": "11065479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11065479", "title": "1851 Research Fellowship", "text": "1851 Research Fellowship\n\nThe 1851 Research Fellowship is a scheme conducted by the Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851 to annually award a three-year research scholarship to approximately eight \"young scientists or engineers of exceptional promise\". The fellowship is open to all nationalities and fields of science, including physical or biological sciences, mathematics, applied science, and any branch of engineering. The fellowship can be held anywhere in the United Kingdom.\n\nSeveral other Fellowships are also awarded by the Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851, including the Research Fellowship in the Built Environment, Industrial Fellowships and the Research Fellowship in Design.\n\nThe research fellowship known as the 1851 Exhibition Scholarship, has been awarded to numerous scientists and engineers over the years, many of whom have become leaders in their fields.\n\nAward recipients include:\n\n"}
{"id": "51554896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51554896", "title": "AIMS college", "text": "AIMS college\n\nAims college, Biratnagar, is a private college in Biratnagar, Nepal, which offers BBS, BA and BSc.CSIT programmes. The college has produced some prominent students such as Mr. Sandesh Pokhrel and Ms. Sheela Parajuli who were both toppers in exams held by Tribhuwan University in BSc.CSIT programmes.\n"}
{"id": "2917415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2917415", "title": "Block scheduling", "text": "Block scheduling\n\nBlock scheduling or blocking is a type of academic scheduling used in schools in the American K-12 system, in which each pupil has fewer classes per day. It is more common in middle and high schools than in primary schools. Each class is scheduled for a longer period of time than normal (e.g. 90 minutes instead of 50). In one form of block scheduling, a single class will meet every day for a number of days, after which another class will take its place. In another form, daily classes rotate through a changing daily cycle.\n\nBlocks offer more concentrated experiences of subjects, with fewer, usually half as many if going through a schedule transfer, classes daily.\n\nUnder a traditional American schedule, pupils in a high school will study seven subjects a day for 45 minutes for each day of the week for a semester. There will be two semesters in the year so 14 subjects could be studied. Some pupils will not study all seven subjects. There was great variety as each school board was free to decide the requirement.\nConversion to block scheduling became a relatively widespread trend in the 1990s for middle schools and high schools in the United States. Prior to that, many schools scheduled classes such that a student saw every one of their teachers each day. Classes were approximately 40–60 minutes long, but under block scheduling, they became approximately 90 minutes long.\n\nMany forms of block scheduling were devised. \nOne variety of block scheduling, called A/B block scheduling, is shown in the example table. Instead of taking six classes every day, students attend three classes every other day and spend double the amount of continuous time in each class. Students can take 4 classes during one semester and another 4 the next. The example given reverts to a six-period day on Fridays.\nA method called 4×4 block scheduling splits the academic year into quarters, and uses a four-period day. This leaves eight slots available for classes during a semester (four classes in each of two quarters). The 4×4 method is somewhat more flexible in that students can take two sequential classes (such as Algebra 1 and 2) in the same semester (in different quarters), which would not be possible on a traditional schedule. This also allows students in their final year to fail a third-quarter class but repeat it in the fourth quarter in order to graduate.\nAnother common block system exists in which students spend up to 100 minutes per class, and earn four credits each semester. Excluding very rare occasions, students at schools using this system take two core classes and two electives per semester. Some schools modify this system further to use one of the mid-day periods for students to take optional year-long classes (usually band) that take half of the period length and take another year-long class during the rest of the period (such as math or journalism). Under such a system most of the classes taken on a year-long basis have all students participating, however it is not uncommon for journalism or yearbook classes to operate under the normal system and only have a few students who leave or arrive halfway through the period. It is also not uncommon for these classes to be scheduled as two credits, and taken both semesters. \nWaldorf schools traditionally employ a mixed approach. Certain academic subjects are taught in intensive three to five week blocks known as \"main lesson blocks\", while other subjects are taught in regularly meeting skills classes.\n\nWithin the context of post K-12 establishments, such as in medical school or other intensive university program, a block schedule may mean taking one class at a time, all day, every day, until all of the material is covered. A normal university course might then be completed in three or four weeks of focused effort on a single topic. This is sometimes called \"One Course At A Time\" (\"OCAAT\") (see Colorado College and Cornell College). When used as a supplement change instead of the normal schedule, this approach is sometimes called a \"mini-mester\".\n\n\"Where we were able to combine data to produce summary effect sizes, we found that 4 x 4 block scheduling resulted in higher cross subject achievement than traditional schedules. However, the outcome average cross-subject achievement could conceal worsening performance in some subjects and better performance in others.\"\n\nSome schools have compensated for this by making AP courses last for the entire school year, providing essentially double the instruction time of normal classes, but this results in a dramatic reduction in the number of courses a student can take. Some schools that make AP courses year long offset this by having students always choose a pair of AP courses during class registration. The student will go to the first AP class one day, and the other AP course the next day. Therefore, the student takes the same number of courses as other students, but both AP classes last for the duration of the year.\n\nA systematic review on Block Scheduling was also conducted by Dickson et al. (2010) at the EPPI-Centre which asserts that there is no conclusive evidence to support the introduction of policy guidance on the use of block scheduling in secondary schools in the UK. Although the findings do not indicate that participating in block schedules would produce negative outcomes for pupils across subjects, neither are the positive effects of block scheduling strong enough to recommend their implementation.\n\nSome critics believe that certain subjects suffer from a lack of daily exposure to subject matter and practice that occurs with an A/B block schedule. Courses like mathematics, foreign languages, and music may benefit from daily practice and suffer from a lack thereof.\nBlock scheduling can result in gaps of a day or days (or even weeks or months in some circumstances) where students are receiving no reinforcement of instruction in a specific subject like math or history, and critics say this results in retention problems and the need for more remedial review. Some observers similarly feel that summer vacation has a similar effect of interrupting the learning and retention process forcing a need to repeat material at the start of a new school year in the Fall.\n\nA University of Virginia study of 8,000 college students found that students who had block scheduling in high school performed worse in university science courses.\n\nStudents who miss a block-scheduled day can miss a considerable amount of material in a single subject, possibly making it more difficult to catch up. One way this can be mitigated is by making course material available online, which allows students to catch up outside of school, and another way is by using a flipped classroom system.\n\nSome students are better able to manage their time with nightly homework in every class, while other students do better with larger homework assignments that are spaced out over several days. Some subjects may benefit from daily drills while other subjects may lend themselves to less frequent homework projects. Mid-term transfers between schools with different schedules can be problematic in cases where the schedules are different.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41757145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41757145", "title": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Abbottabad", "text": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Abbottabad\n\nThe Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Abbottabad, more commonly known as BISE Abbottabad, is an intermediate and secondary education governmental board located in Abbottabad, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. It is authorized with financial and administrative authority to organize, manage, regulate, develop and control intermediate and secondary education in general and accomplish examinations in the institutions affiliated with it. BISE Abbottabad came into being as a result of the break-up of Peshawar Board in 1990 under the North West Frontier Province Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education Act 1990. The organisation building is located on Murree Road, Abbottabad.\n\nJurisdiction includes five districts, namely Haripur, Abbottabad, Mansehra, Battagram and Kohistan, encompassing an area of 17,194 square kilometres and a population of 3.47 millions.\n\n"}
{"id": "46216874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46216874", "title": "Bob Parker (accounting scholar)", "text": "Bob Parker (accounting scholar)\n\nRobert Henry Parker (1932- July 2016) was a British accounting scholar, and Emeritus Professor at the University of Exeter, known for his work on \"comparative international accounting\" and the history of the accounting profession in Britain.\n\nBorn and raised in North Walsham, Norfolk, Parker obtained his MA in economics at the University of London, and gained his licence as chartered accountant in 1958. Subsequently, Parker started working as accountant in Nigeria, and Australia, where he became a lecturer at the University of Adelaide, and then a sub-dean at the University of Western Australia. In 1966 he returned to England, where he joined the faculty of the London School of Economics. He also lectured at INSEAD and at the University of Dundee before he was appointed Professor of Accounting at the University of Exeter in 1976.\n\nParker's main research interest was \"the accountancy profession worldwide in its international and historical contexts.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53631630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53631630", "title": "Child development in Africa", "text": "Child development in Africa\n\nChild development in Africa addresses the variables and social changes that occur in African children from infancy through adolescence. Three complementary lines of scholarship have sought to generate knowledge about child development in Africa, specifically rooted in endogenous, African ways of knowing: analysis of traditional proverbs, theory-building, and documentation of parental ethno-theories. The first approach has examined the indigenous formulations of child development and socialisation values embedded in African languages and oral traditions. Several collections of proverbs have been published in different African languages, and their content has been analysed to show the recurrence of the themes of shared communal responsibility for children’s moral guidance and the importance of providing it early in life.\n\nThe African social ontogeny proposed by Nsamenang is phrased within an eco-cultural perspective, and draws from writings by African scholars in philosophy and the humanities. The theory explains a worldview shared among various ethnic groups, and is grounded in systematic observational research and personal experience of the socialisation practices of the rural Nso people of Cameroon. The growth of social selfhood takes place in seven phases, each characterized by a developmental task. In the first phase, the naming ceremony projects the kind of socialized being the neonate should become. The major task of this phase is success in social priming: babies are cuddled and teased to smile along with adults; parents and other caregivers offer food items and playthings, and lure them verbally and nonverbally to return the ‘gifts’ – a prelude towards induction into the ‘sharing and exchange norms’ that bond the social system. Rabain and Mtonga describe similar infant teasing practices among the Wolof of Senegal and among the Chewa and Tumbuka of Zambia. Such interactions are believed to cultivate generosity.\n\nThe second phase, ‘social apprenticing’, roughly corresponds with childhood. Its principal task is to recognize and rehearse social roles that pertain to four hierarchical spheres of life: self, household, network, and public. Adults assign responsibility to preadolescent and adolescent children including the care and socialization of younger children which serves the function of priming the emergence of social responsibility. The priming strategies embedded in indigenous African childcare practices have important implications for the design of culturally appropriate forms of intervention to optimize developmental opportunities for children. In many African communities, far from a form of exploitation, caregiving responsibilities assigned to preadolescents and adolescents are part of ‘an indigenous educational strategy that keeps children in contact with existential realities and the activities of daily life [that] represents the participatory component of social integration’. A case study in Zambia found that this strategy was successfully integrated into a service-learning programme at a primary school that promoted social responsibility among both girls and boys and generated improved academic performance.\n\nThe generalisability of Nsamenang’s ‘West African’ theory across the many different societies in sub-Saharan Africa is debatable. For instance, there are mother-infant interactions among the Gusii of rural Kenya in the 1950s and 1970s that stands in marked contrast to Nsamenang’s description of social priming through cuddling and teasing. Gusii mothers, ‘are not expected to talk to or gaze at their infants or play with them’, and they explain how this (strange to Western eyes) emotional detachment is compatible with healthy emotional development in later life. Part of their explanation is that the infants receive playful stimulation and emotional support from their elder siblings and other child caregivers. The contrast between these ethnographic accounts serves as a warning that wide variations occur across different ethnocultural groups within the African region, and that further detailed research on socialization practices is needed.\n\nAnother significant feature of the developmental niche described by many researchers on African early childhood is the prominence of elaborate play activities, unsupervised by adults. Marfo and Biersteker note that while major Western psychological theories attribute to play an important role in child development, this is mainly focused on cognition, whereas anthropological studies in Africa have emphasised that play also serves as an interactive process of social enculturation, structuring opportunities for the rehearsal, critique and appropriation of cultural practices. The cognitive and social structure of African games has been extensively documented. Music and dance are notably rich dimensions of most African cultures and children participate in both from an early age. Mtonga analysed the texts of Chewa and Tumbuka children’s songs and games observed in rural and urban areas of Zambia, highlighting how they reveal ‘reasoning and understanding the psychology of other participants’, and ‘playful and skilful manipulation of certain word-sounds in order to distort meaning, create new concepts, or paint a satirical caricature...’. He also notes that children’s play in these communities is generally inclusive of multiple age groups and of children with physical handicaps.\n\nYet indigenous games are seldom deployed as resources for enrichment in early childhood care and education (ECCE) programmes in Africa, despite the heavy emphasis on play in the curricula imported from Western preschool orthodoxy. Okwany, Ngutuku and Muhangi describe a number of recent initiatives in Kenya and Uganda where a systematic attempt was made to ‘leverage indigenous knowledge for child care’, by deploying local traditional songs, proverbs, and food production, preparation and preservation practices as resources for the enrichment of children’s intellectual, emotional and nutritional development, rather than ‘downgrading’ them in favour of those imported from the West. Unfortunately, as Hyde and Kabiru note, such efforts are relatively rare, and ‘centre-based programmes in Africa tend to be heavily influenced by Western culture and sometimes are not relevant to the needs of children and society’.\n\nDespite robust efforts by African governments over recent decades to broaden access to schooling, the structure of formal educational provision in most countries requires most of those who start out in Grade 1 to ‘drop out’ long before completion of the full 12-year curriculum. Thus the process of formal education is perceived by teachers, parents and pupils alike as one in which students are challenged to climb up a narrowing staircase. Dropping out at earlier stages is perceived as failure, and the individual’s return to the community a source of disappointment. The experience of a few years of schooling is not generally perceived as adding value to the individual’s productive capacity within the community. Thus, the purpose of schooling is widely understood as extractive recruitment of the best and brightest individuals out of the community into a higher, powerful, elite social stratum. A number of different ways of focusing education have been proposed in search of alternatives to the narrowing staircase model, including apprenticeship, life-long learning, school production units, health education, and the Child-to-Child approach (CtC).\n\nCtC is designed to mobilise children as agents of health education. It differs from the narrowing staircase model by focusing on the promotion of social responsibility in pre-adolescent children, an educational goal that resonates with the Chewa concept of nzelu. The widespread African practice of entrusting preadolescent children with the care of younger siblings was a major inspiration for the original proponents of CtC, which has been applied in more than 80 countries worldwide. A case study was conducted of integrative curriculum development by a group of Zambian primary school teachers using the CtC approach. The insight that pre-adolescent children can take on responsibility as agents of infant care and nurture, within the context of primary health care and progressive social change, was re-appropriated by the African teachers at this school as a way of incorporating traditional cultural practices into the formal educational process. Striking long-term benefits were claimed by the graduates of the school’s CtC curriculum, including a growth of egalitarian relations between the genders, even within adult marriages.\n\n"}
{"id": "21679345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21679345", "title": "Chris Spence (educator)", "text": "Chris Spence (educator)\n\nChristopher M. Spence is a Canadian educator, author, and former Canadian football player. He is the former Director of Education of the Toronto District School Board and former Director of Education of the Hamilton-Wentworth District School Board.\n\nBorn in England to Jamaican parents, Spence has lived in Canada since he was three years old and received his early education in Windsor, Ontario. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree in criminology from Simon Fraser University in 1985. A running back, he was drafted by the BC Lions in the third round of the 1985 CFL Draft, but his CFL career was ended in 1988 by an Achilles tendon injury.\n\nSpence received a Bachelor of Education degree from York University, a Master of Education degree from the University of Toronto in 1993 and a Doctor of Education degree from the University of Toronto's Ontario Institute for Studies in Education in 1996.\n\nHe became Director of Education for the Hamilton-Wentworth District School Board on September 1, 2004, and served until July 2009, when he became the Director of Education for the Toronto District School Board.\n\nOn January 9, 2013, Spence apologized for plagiarizing several passages in an op-ed piece he wrote for the \"Toronto Star\" on extracurricular activities. The plagiarism was verified by the \"Star\"'s public editor. Among the plagiarized material was this paragraph lifted from a 1989 opinion piece in the \"New York Times\": \"We are challenged through sport to use our minds in guiding our bodies through the dimensions of time and space on the field of play. Learning the skills of sport provides opportunity to experience success.\" On January 10, 2013, Spence tendered his resignation as director effective immediately after additional incidents of plagiarism in earlier articles and blog entries were uncovered. Passages of his 1996 Ed.D. dissertation were also revealed to have been copied from other sources without attribution; the University of Toronto is investigating the allegations.\n\nOn December 20, 2016, the Ontario College of Teachers announced that Spence's teaching license had been revoked as a result of the findings of the investigation.\n\nHis Doctor of Education has been recommended to be revoked by an independent tribunal due to 67 counts of plagiarism in his dissertation. On June 20, 2017, an independent tribunal at the University of Toronto recommended that Chris Spence be stripped of his Doctor of Education degree and that he be expelled from the university based on 67 instances of plagiarism in his 1996 doctorate dissertation that show a clear intention to plagiarize such as paragraph after paragraph and page after page of plagiarism that was edited from American to Canadian spelling and edited to appear as his own opinion.\n\nIn 2018, Spence lost his fight to keep his PhD. The appeals tribunal stated that the \"nature and extent [of plagiarism] found in Spence's thesis is a very serious offence.\" The matter, however is not settled. His lawyer, Darryl Singer, wrote in an email that Spence intends to seek judicial review of the decision in Ontario divisional court.\n\nFrom 2012 through until the present time (2018), Chris Spence has repeatedly claimed to the Ontario College of Teachers as well as to the University of Toronto, that he has been battling with mental health issues such as depressive episodes and anxiety attacks. This can be substantiated from the various articles already referenced on this page, however not by googling \"Chris Spence\" and \"anxiety attacks\" or \"depression\" or \"mental health\" for more news articles referencing these claims.\n\nHe is the author of \"Skin I'm in: Racism, Sports and Education\" (Fernwood Publishing Company, 2000, ) and \"On Time! On Task! On a Mission!\" (Fernwood Publishing Company, 2002, ).\n"}
{"id": "1040161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1040161", "title": "Constructivism (philosophy of education)", "text": "Constructivism (philosophy of education)\n\nConstructivism is a philosophical viewpoint about the nature of knowledge. Specifically, it represents an ontological stance.\n\nThere are many flavors of constructivism, but one prominent theorist is Jean Piaget, who focused on how humans make meaning in relation to the interaction between their experiences and their ideas. He considered himself to be a genetic epistemologist, meaning he was interested in the genesis of knowledge. His views tended to focus on human development in relation to what is occurring with an individual as distinct from development influenced by other persons.\n\nViews more focused on human development in the context of the social world include the sociocultural or socio-historical perspective of Lev Vygotsky and the situated cognition perspectives of Mikhail Bakhtin, Jean Lave and Etienne Wenger; Brown, Collins and Duguid; Newman, Griffin and Cole, and Barbara Rogoff.\n\nThe concept of constructivism has influenced a number of disciplines, including psychology, sociology, education and the history of science. During its infancy, constructivism examined the interaction between human experiences and their reflexes or behavior-patterns. Piaget called these systems of knowledge \"schemes.\"\n\nSchemes are not to be confused with \"schema\", a term that comes from schema theory, which is from information-processing perspectives on human cognition. Whereas Piaget's schemes are content-free, schemata (the plural of schema) are concepts; for example, most humans have a schema for \"grandmother\", \"egg\", or \"magnet.\"\n\nConstructivism does not refer to a specific pedagogy, although it is often confused with constructionism, an educational theory developed by Seymour Papert, inspired by constructivist and experiential learning ideas of Piaget.\n\nPiaget's theory of constructivist learning has had wide-ranging impact on learning theories and teaching methods in education, and is an underlying theme of education reform movements. Research support for constructivist teaching techniques has been mixed, with some studies in support and others contradicting constructivist results.\n\nEarlier educational philosophies did not place much value on what would become constructivist ideas; children's play and exploration were seen as aimless and of little importance. Jean Piaget did not agree with these traditional views; he saw play as an important and necessary part of the student's cognitive development and provided scientific evidence for his views. Today, constructivist theories are influential throughout the formal and informal learning sectors. In museum education, constructivist theories inform exhibit design. One good example of constructivist learning in a non-formal setting is the Investigate Centre at The Natural History Museum, London. Here visitors are encouraged to explore a collection of real natural history specimens, to practice some scientific skills and make discoveries for themselves. Writers who influenced constructivism include:\n\nThe formalization of constructivism from a within-the-human perspective is generally attributed to Jean Piaget, who articulated mechanisms by which information from the environment and ideas from the individual interact and result in internalized structures developed by learners. He identified processes of \"assimilation\" and \"accommodation\" that are key in this interaction as individuals construct new knowledge from their experiences.\nWhen individuals \"assimilate\" new information, they incorporate it into an already existing framework without changing that framework. This may occur when individuals' experiences are aligned with their internal representations of the world, but may also occur as a failure to change a faulty understanding; for example, they may not notice events, may misunderstand input from others, or may decide that an event is a fluke and is therefore unimportant as information about the world. In contrast, when individuals' experiences contradict their internal representations, they may change their perceptions of the experiences to fit their internal representations.\nAccording to the theory, \"accommodation\" is the process of reframing one's mental representation of the external world to fit new experiences. Accommodation can be understood as the mechanism by which failure leads to learning: when we act on the expectation that the world operates in one way and it violates our expectations, we often fail, but by accommodating this new experience and reframing our model of the way the world works, we learn from the experience of failure, or others' failure.\n\nIt is important to note that constructivism is not a particular pedagogy. In fact, constructivism is a theory describing how learning happens, regardless of whether learners are using their experiences to understand a lecture or following the instructions for building a model airplane. In both cases, the theory of constructivism suggests that learners construct knowledge out of their experiences.\n\nHowever, constructivism is often associated with pedagogic approaches that promote active learning, or learning by doing. There are many critics of \"learning by doing\" (a.k.a. \"discovery learning\") as an instructional strategy (e.g. see the criticisms below). While there is much enthusiasm for constructivism as a design strategy, according to Tobias and Duffy \"... to us it would appear that constructivism remains more of a philosophical framework than a theory that either allows us to precisely describe instruction or prescribe design strategies.\"\n\nSocial constructivism not only acknowledges the uniqueness and complexity of the learner, but actually encourages, utilizes and rewards it as an integral part of the learning process.\n\nSocial constructivisms or socioculturalism encourage the learner or learners to arrive at his or her version of the truth, influenced by his or her background, culture or embedded worldview. Historical developments and symbol systems, such as language, logic, and mathematical systems, are inherited by the learner as a member of a particular culture and these are learned throughout the learner's life. This also stresses the importance of the nature of the learner's social interaction with knowledgeable members of the society. Without the social interaction with other more knowledgeable people, it is impossible to acquire social meaning of important symbol systems and learn how to utilize them. Young children develop their thinking abilities by interacting with other children, adults and the physical world. From the social constructivist viewpoint, it is thus important to take into account the background and culture of the learner throughout the learning process, as this background also helps to shape the knowledge and truth that the learner creates, discovers and attains in the learning process.\n\nFurthermore, it is argued that the responsibility of learning should reside increasingly with the learner. Social constructivism thus emphasizes the importance of the learner being actively involved in the learning process, unlike previous educational viewpoints where the responsibility rested with the instructor to teach and where the learner played a passive, receptive role. Von Glasersfeld (1989) emphasized that learners construct their own understanding and that they do not simply mirror and reflect what they read. Learners look for meaning and will try to find regularity and order in the events of the world even in the absence of full or complete information.\n\nIt is called the \"Harkness\" discussion method because it was developed at Phillips Exeter Academy with funds donated in the 1930s by Edward Harkness. This is also named after the Harkness table and involves students seated in a circle, motivating and controlling their own discussion. The teacher acts as little as possible. Perhaps the teacher's only function is to observe, although he/she might begin or shift or even direct a discussion. The students get it rolling, direct it, and focus it. They act as a team, cooperatively, to make it work. They all participate, but not in a competitive way. Rather, they all share in the responsibility and the goals, much as any members share in any team sport. Although the goals of any discussion will change depending upon what's under discussion, some goals will always be the same: to illuminate the subject, to unravel its mysteries, to interpret and share and learn from other points of view, to piece together the puzzle using everyone's contribution. Discussion skills are important. Everyone must be aware of how to get this discussion rolling and keep it rolling and interesting. Just as in any sport, a number of skills are necessary to work on and use at appropriate times. Everyone is expected to contribute by using these skills.\n\nAnother crucial assumption regarding the nature of the learner concerns the level and source of motivation for learning. According to Von Glasersfeld, sustaining motivation to learn is strongly dependent on the learner's confidence in his or her potential for learning. These feelings of competence and belief in potential to solve new problems, are derived from first-hand experience of mastery of problems in the past and are much more powerful than any external acknowledgment and motivation. This links up with Vygotsky's \"zone of proximal development\" where learners are challenged within close proximity to, yet slightly above, their current level of development. By experiencing the successful completion of challenging tasks, learners gain confidence and motivation to embark on more complex challenges.\n\nAccording to the social constructivist approach, instructors have to adapt to the role of facilitators and not teachers. Whereas a teacher gives a didactic lecture that covers the subject matter, a facilitator helps the learner to get to his or her own understanding of the content. In the former scenario the learner plays a passive role and in the latter scenario the learner plays an active role in the learning process. The emphasis thus turns away from the instructor and the content, and towards the learner. This dramatic change of role implies that a facilitator needs to display a totally different set of skills than that of a teacher. A teacher tells, a facilitator asks; a teacher lectures from the front, a facilitator supports from the back; a teacher gives answers according to a set curriculum, a facilitator provides guidelines and creates the environment for the learner to arrive at his or her own conclusions; a teacher mostly gives a monologue, a facilitator is in continuous dialogue with the learners. A facilitator should also be able to adapt the learning experience 'in mid-air' by taking the initiative to steer the learning experience to where the learners want to create value.\n\nThe learning environment should also be designed to support and challenge the learner's thinking. While it is advocated to give the learner ownership of the problem and solution process, it is not the case that any activity or any solution is adequate. The critical goal is to support the learner in becoming an effective thinker. This can be achieved by assuming multiple roles, such as consultant and coach.\n\nA few strategies for cooperative learning include \n\nSocial constructivism, strongly influenced by Vygotsky's (1978) work, suggests that knowledge is first constructed in a social context and is then appropriated by individuals. According to social constructivists, the process of sharing individual perspectives — called \"collaborative elaboration\" — results in learners constructing understanding together that wouldn't be possible alone.\n\nSocial constructivist scholars view learning as an active process where learners should learn to discover principles, concepts and facts for themselves, hence the importance of encouraging guesswork and intuitive thinking in learners. In fact, for the social constructivist, reality is not something that we can discover because it does not pre-exist prior to our social invention of it. Kukla (2000) argues that reality is constructed by our own activities and that people, together as members of a society, invent the properties of the world.\n\nOther constructivist scholars agree with this and emphasize that individuals make meanings through the interactions with each other and with the environment they live in. Knowledge is thus a product of humans and is socially and culturally constructed. McMahon (1997) agrees that learning is a social process. He further states that learning is not a process that only takes place inside our minds, nor is it a passive development of our behaviors that is shaped by external forces and that meaningful learning occurs when individuals are engaged in social activities.\n\nVygotsky (1978) also highlighted the convergence of the social and practical elements in learning by saying that the most significant moment in the course of intellectual development occurs when speech and practical activity, two previously completely independent lines of development, converge. Through practical activity a child constructs meaning on an intra-personal level, while speech connects this meaning with the interpersonal world shared by the child and her/his culture.\n\nA further characteristic of the role of the facilitator in the social constructivist viewpoint, is that the instructor and the learners are equally involved in learning from each other as well. This means that the learning experience is both subjective and objective and requires that the instructor's culture, values and background become an essential part of the interplay between learners and tasks in the shaping of meaning. Learners compare their version of the truth with that of the instructor and fellow learners to get to a new, socially tested version of truth (Kukla 2000). The task or problem is thus the interface between the instructor and the learner. This creates a dynamic interaction between task, instructor and learner. This entails that learners and instructors should develop an awareness of each other's viewpoints and then look to their own beliefs, standards and values, thus being both subjective and objective at the same time.\n\nSome studies argue for the importance of mentoring in the process of learning. The social constructivist model thus emphasizes the importance of the relationship between the student and the instructor in the learning process.\n\nSome learning approaches that could harbour this interactive learning include reciprocal teaching, peer collaboration, cognitive apprenticeship, problem-based instruction, web quests, Anchored Instruction and other approaches that involve learning with others.\n\nLearners with different skills and backgrounds should collaborate in tasks and discussions to arrive at a shared understanding of the truth in a specific field.\n\nSome social constructivist models also stress the need for collaboration among learners, in direct contradiction to traditional competitive approaches. One Vygotskian notion that has significant implications for peer collaboration, is that of the zone of proximal development. Defined as the distance between the actual developmental level as determined by independent problem-solving and the level of potential development as determined through problem-solving under adult guidance or in collaboration with more capable peers, it differs from the fixed biological nature of Piaget's stages of development. Through a process of 'scaffolding' a learner can be extended beyond the limitations of physical maturation to the extent that the development process lags behind the learning process.\n\nIf students have to present and train new contents with their classmates, a non-linear process of collective knowledge-construction will be set up.\n\nThe social constructivist paradigm views the context in which the learning occurs as central to the learning itself.\n\nUnderlying the notion of the learner as an active processor is \"the assumption that there is no one set of generalised learning laws with each law applying to all domains\". Decontextualised knowledge does not give us the skills to apply our understandings to authentic tasks because we are not working with the concept in the complex environment and experiencing the complex interrelationships in that environment that determine how and when the concept is used. One social constructivist notion is that of authentic or situated learning, where the student takes part in activities directly relevant to the application of learning and that take place within a culture similar to the applied setting. Cognitive apprenticeship has been proposed as an effective constructivist model of learning that attempts to \"enculturate students into authentic practices through activity and social interaction in a way similar to that evident, and evidently successful, in craft apprenticeship\".\n\nHolt and Willard-Holt (2000) emphasize the concept of dynamic assessment, which is a way of assessing the true potential of learners that differs significantly from conventional tests. Here the essentially interactive nature of learning is extended to the process of assessment. Rather than viewing assessment as a process carried out by one person, such as an instructor, it is seen as a two-way process involving interaction between both instructor and learner. The role of the assessor becomes one of entering into dialogue with the persons being assessed to find out their current level of performance on any task and sharing with them possible ways in which that performance might be improved on a subsequent occasion. Thus, assessment and learning are seen as inextricably linked and not separate processes.\n\nAccording to this viewpoint instructors should see assessment as a continuous and interactive process that measures the achievement of the learner, the quality of the learning experience and courseware. The feedback created by the assessment process serves as a direct foundation for further development.\n\nKnowledge should not be divided into different subjects or compartments, but should be discovered as an integrated whole.\n\nThis also again underlines the importance of the context in which learning is presented. The world, in which the learner needs to operate, does not approach one in the form of different subjects, but as a complex myriad of facts, problems, dimensions, and perceptions.\n\nLearners should constantly be challenged with tasks that refer to skills and knowledge just beyond their current level of mastery. This captures their motivation and builds on previous successes to enhance learner confidence. This is in line with Vygotsky's zone of proximal development, which can be described as the distance between the actual developmental level (as determined by independent problem-solving) and the level of potential development (as determined through problem-solving under adult guidance or in collaboration with more capable peers).\n\nVygotsky (1978) further claimed that instruction is good only when it proceeds ahead of development. Then it awakens and rouses to life an entire set of functions in the stage of maturing, which lie in the zone of proximal development. It is in this way that instruction plays an extremely important role in development.\n\nTo fully engage and challenge the learner, the task and learning environment should reflect the complexity of the environment that the learner should be able to function in at the end of learning. Learners must not only have ownership of the learning or problem-solving process, but of the problem itself.\n\nWhere the sequencing of subject matter is concerned, it is the constructivist viewpoint that the foundations of any subject may be taught to anybody at any stage in some form. This means that instructors should first introduce the basic ideas that give life and form to any topic or subject area, and then revisit and build upon these repeatedly. This notion has been extensively used in curricula.\n\nIt is important for instructors to realize that although a curriculum may be set down for them, it inevitably becomes shaped by them into something personal that reflects their own belief systems, their thoughts and feelings about both the content of their instruction and their learners. Thus, the learning experience becomes a shared enterprise. The emotions and life contexts of those involved in the learning process must therefore be considered as an integral part of learning. The goal of the learner is central in considering what is learned.\n\nIt is important to achieve the right balance between the degree of structure and flexibility that is built into the learning process. Savery (1994) contends that the more structured the learning environment, the harder it is for the learners to construct meaning based on their conceptual understandings. A facilitator should structure the learning experience just enough to make sure that the students get clear guidance and parameters within which to achieve the learning objectives, yet the learning experience should be open and free enough to allow for the learners to discover, enjoy, interact and arrive at their own, socially verified version of truth.\n\nConstructivist ideas have been used to inform adult education. Current trends in higher education push for more \"active learning\" teaching approaches which are often based on constructivist views.\n\nApproaches based on constructivism stress the importance of mechanisms for mutual planning, diagnosis of learner needs and interests, cooperative learning climate, sequential activities for achieving the objectives, formulation of learning objectives based on the diagnosed needs and interests. While adult learning often stresses the importance of personal relevance of the content, involvement of the learner in the process, and deeper understanding of underlying concepts, all of these are principles that may benefit learners of all ages as even children connect their every day experiences to what they learn.\n\nVarious approaches in pedagogy derive from constructivist theory. They usually suggest that learning is accomplished best using a hands-on approach. Learners learn by experimentation, and not by being told what will happen, and are left to make their own inferences, discoveries and conclusions.\n\nHmelo-Silver, Duncan, & Chinn cite several studies supporting the success of the constructivist problem-based and inquiry learning methods. For example, they describe a project called GenScope, an inquiry-based science software application. Students using the GenScope software showed significant gains over the control groups, with the largest gains shown in students from basic courses.\n\nHmelo-Silver et al. also cite a large study by Geier on the effectiveness of inquiry-based science for middle school students, as demonstrated by their performance on high-stakes standardized tests. The improvement was 14% for the first cohort of students and 13% for the second cohort. This study also found that inquiry-based teaching methods greatly reduced the achievement gap for African-American students.\n\nGuthrie et al. (2004) compared three instructional methods for third-grade reading: a traditional approach, a strategies instruction only approach, and an approach with strategies instruction and constructivist motivation techniques including student choices, collaboration, and hands-on activities. The constructivist approach, called CORI (Concept-Oriented Reading Instruction), resulted in better student reading comprehension, cognitive strategies, and motivation.\n\nJong Suk Kim found that using constructivist teaching methods for 6th graders resulted in better student achievement than traditional teaching methods. This study also found that students preferred constructivist methods over traditional ones. However, Kim did not find any difference in student self-concept or learning strategies between those taught by constructivist or traditional methods.\n\nDoğru and Kalender compared science classrooms using traditional teacher-centered approaches to those using student-centered, constructivist methods. In their initial test of student performance immediately following the lessons, they found no significant difference between traditional and constructivist methods. However, in the follow-up assessment 15 days later, students who learned through constructivist methods showed better retention of knowledge than those who learned through traditional methods.\n\nSeveral cognitive psychologists and educators have questioned the central claims of constructivism. It is argued that constructivist theories are misleading or contradict known findings. Matthews (1993) attempts to sketch the influence of constructivism in current mathematics and science education, aiming to indicate how pervasive Aristotle's empiricist epistemology is within it and what problems constructivism faces on that account.\n\nIn the neo-Piagetian theories of cognitive development it is maintained that learning at any age depends upon the processing and representational resources available at this particular age. That is, it is maintained that if the requirements of the concept to be understood exceeds the available processing efficiency and working memory resources then the concept is by definition not learnable. This attitude toward learning impedes the learning from understanding essential theoretical concepts or, in other words, reasoning. Therefore, no matter how active a child is during learning, to learn the child must operate in a learning environment that meets the developmental and individual learning constraints that are characteristic for the child's age and this child's possible deviations from her age's norm. If this condition is not met, construction goes astray.\n\nSeveral educators have also questioned the effectiveness of this approach toward instructional design, especially as it applies to the development of instruction for novices While some constructivists argue that \"learning by doing\" enhances learning, critics of this instructional strategy argue that little empirical evidence exists to support this statement given novice learners. Sweller and his colleagues argue that novices do not possess the underlying mental models, or \"schemas\" necessary for \"learning by doing\". Indeed, Mayer (2004) reviewed the literature and found that fifty years of empirical data do not support using the constructivist teaching technique of pure discovery; in those situations requiring discovery, he argues for the use of guided discovery instead.\n\nMayer (2004) argues that not all teaching techniques based on constructivism are efficient or effective for all learners, suggesting many educators misapply constructivism to use teaching techniques that require learners to be behaviorally active. He describes this inappropriate use of constructivism as the \"constructivist teaching fallacy\". \"I refer to this interpretation as the constructivist teaching fallacy because it equates active learning with active teaching.\" Instead Mayer proposes learners should be \"cognitively active\" during learning and that instructors use \"guided practice.\"\n\nIn contrast, Kirschner \"et al.\" (2006) describe constructivist teaching methods as \"unguided methods of instruction.\" They suggest more structured learning activities for learners with little to no prior knowledge. Slezak states that constructivism \"is an example of fashionable but thoroughly problematic doctrines that can have little benefit for practical pedagogy or teacher education.\" Similar views have been stated by Meyer, Boden, Quale and others.\n\nKirschner \"et al.\" group a number of learning theories together (Discovery, Problem-Based, Experiential, and Inquiry-Based learning) and stated that highly scaffolded constructivist methods like problem-based learning and inquiry learning are ineffective. Kirschner \"et al.\" described several research studies that were favorable to problem-based learning given learners were provided some level of guidance and support.\n\nWhile there are critics of the Kirschner, Sweller, and Clark article, Sweller and his associates have written in their articles about:\n\nKirschner \"et al.\" (2006) describe worked examples as an instructional design solution for procedural learning. Clark, Nguyen, and Sweller (2006) describe this as a very effective, empirically validated method of teaching learners procedural skill acquisition. Evidence for learning by studying worked-examples, is known as the worked-example effect and has been found to be useful in many domains (e.g. music, chess, athletics) concept mapping, geometry, physics, mathematics, or programming.\n\nKirschner \"et al.\" (2006) describe why they group a series of seemingly disparate learning theories (Discovery, Problem-Based, Experiential, and Inquiry-Based learning). The reasoning for this grouping is because each learning theory promotes the same constructivist teaching technique—\"learning by doing.\" While they argue \"learning by doing\" is useful for more knowledgeable learners, they argue this teaching technique is not useful for novices. Mayer states that it promotes behavioral activity too early in the learning process, when learners should be cognitively active.\n\nIn addition, Sweller and his associates describe a continuum of guidance, starting with worked examples to slowly fade guidance. This continuum of faded guidance has been tested empirically to produce a series of learning effects: the worked-example effect, the guidance fading effect, and the expertise-reversal effect.\n\nMayer (2004) argues against discovery-based teaching techniques and provides an extensive review to support this argument. Mayer's arguments are against pure discovery, and are not specifically aimed at constructivism: \"Nothing in this article should be construed as arguing against the view of learning as knowledge construction or against using hands-on inquiry or group discussion that promotes the process of knowledge construction in learners. The main conclusion I draw from the three research literatures I have reviewed is that it would be a mistake to interpret the current constructivist view of learning as a rationale for reviving pure discovery as a method of instruction.\"\n\nMayer's concern is how one applies discovery-based teaching techniques. He provides empirical research as evidence that discovery-based teaching techniques are inadequate. Here he cites this literature and makes his point \"For example, a recent replication is research showing that students learn to become better at solving mathematics problems when they study worked-out examples rather than when they solely engage in hands-on problem solving. Today's proponents of discovery methods, who claim to draw their support from constructivist philosophy, are making inroads into educational practice. Yet a dispassionate review of the relevant research literature shows that discovery-based practice is not as effective as guided discovery.\"\n\nMayer's point is that people often misuse constructivism to promote pure discovery-based teaching techniques. He proposes that the instructional design recommendations of constructivism are too often aimed at discovery-based practice. Sweller (1988) found evidence that practice by novices during early schema acquisition, distracts these learners with unnecessary search-based activity, when the learner's attention should be focused on understanding (acquiring schemas).\n\nThe study by Kirschner et al. from which the quote at the beginning of this section was taken has been widely cited and is important for showing the limits of minimally-guided instruction. Hmelo-Silver et al. responded, pointing out that Kirschner et al. conflated constructivist teaching techniques such as inquiry learning with \"discovery learning\". (See the preceding two sections of this article.) This would agree with Mayer's viewpoint that even though constructivism as a theory and teaching techniques incorporating guidance are likely valid applications of this theory, nevertheless a tradition of misunderstanding has led to some question \"pure discovery\" techniques.\n\nThe math wars controversy in the United States is an example of the type of heated debate that sometimes follows the implementation of constructivist-inspired curricula in schools. In the 1990s, mathematics textbooks based on new standards largely informed by constructivism were developed and promoted with government support. Although constructivist theory does not require eliminating instruction entirely, some textbooks seemed to recommend this extreme. Some parents and mathematicians protested the design of textbooks that omitted or de-emphasized instruction of standard mathematical methods. Supporters responded that the methods were to be eventually discovered under direction by the teacher, but since this was missing or unclear, many insisted the textbooks were designed to deliberately eliminate instruction of standard methods. In one commonly adopted text, the standard formula for the area of a circle is to be derived in the classroom, but not actually printed in the student textbook as is explained by the developers of CMP: \"The student role of formulating, representing, clarifying, communicating, and reflecting on ideas leads to an increase in learning. If the format of the texts included many worked examples, the student role would then become merely reproducing these examples with small modifications.\"\n\nSimilarly, this approach has been applied to reading with whole language and inquiry-based science that emphasizes the importance of \"devising\" rather than just performing hands-on experiments as early as the elementary grades (traditionally done by research scientists), rather than studying facts. In other areas of curriculum such as social studies and writing are relying more on \"higher order thinking skills\" rather than memorization of dates, grammar or spelling rules or reciting correct answers. Advocates of this approach counter that the constructivism does not require going to extremes, that in fact teachable moments should regularly infuse the experience with the more traditional teaching. The primary differentiation from the traditional approach being that the engagement of the students in their learning makes them more receptive to learning things at an appropriate time, rather than on a preset schedule.\n\nDuring the 1990s, several theorists began to study the cognitive load of novices (those with little or no prior knowledge of the subject matter) during problem solving. Cognitive load theory was applied in several contexts. Based on the results of their research, these authors do not support the idea of allowing novices to interact with ill-structured learning environments. Ill-structured learning environments rely on the learner to discover problem solutions. Jonassen (1997) also suggested that novices be taught with \"well-structured\" learning environments.\n\nJonassen (1997) also proposed well-designed, well-structured learning environments provide scaffolding for problem-solving. Finally both Sweller and Jonassen support problem-solving scenarios for more advanced learners\n\nSweller and his associates even suggest well-structured learning environments, like those provided by worked examples, are not effective for those with more experience—this was later described as the \"expertise reversal effect\". Cognitive load theorists suggest worked examples initially, with a gradual introduction of problem solving scenarios; this is described as the \"guidance fading effect\" Each of these ideas provides more evidence for Anderson's ACT-R framework. This ACT-R framework suggests learning can begin with studying examples.\n\nFinally Mayer states: \"Thus, the contribution of psychology is to help move educational reform efforts from the fuzzy and unproductive world of educational ideology—which sometimes hides under the banner of various versions of constructivism—to the sharp and productive world of theory-based research on how people learn.\"\n\nMany people confuse constructivist with maturationist views. The constructivist (or cognitive-developmental) stream \"is based on the idea that the dialectic or interactionist process of development and learning through the student's active construction should be facilitated and promoted by adults\". Whereas, \"The romantic maturationist stream is based on the idea that the student's naturally occurring development should be allowed to flower without adult interventions in a permissive environment.\" In other words, adults play an active role in guiding learning in constructivism, while they are expected to allow children to guide themselves in maturationism.\n\nErnst von Glasersfeld developed radical constructivism by coupling Piaget's theory of learning and philosophical viewpoint about the nature of knowledge with Kant's rejection of an objective reality independent of human perception or reason. Radical constructivism does not view knowledge as an attempt to generate ideas that match an independent, objective reality. Instead, theories and knowledge about the world, as generated by our senses and reason, either fit within the constraints of whatever reality may exist and, thus, are viable or do not and are not viable. As a theory of education, radical constructivism emphasizes the experiences of the learner, differences between learners and the importance of uncertainty.\n\nBjörn Kraus relational constructivism can be perceived as a relational consequence of the radical constructivism. In contrary to social constructivism, it picks up the epistemological threads and maintains the radical constructivist idea that humans cannot overcome their limited conditions of reception. In spite of the subjectivity of human constructions of reality, relational constructivism focusses on the relational conditions applying to human perceptional processes.\n\nIn recent decades, constructivist theorists have extended the traditional focus on individual learning to address collaborative and social dimensions of learning. It is possible to see \"social constructivism\" as a bringing together of aspects of the work of Piaget with that of Bruner and Vygotsky.\n\nThe concept \"Communal constructivism\" was developed by Leask and Younie in 1995 through their research on the European SchoolNet which demonstrated the value of experts collaborating to push the boundaries of knowledge i.e. communal construction of new knowledge between experts rather than social construction of knowledge as described by Vygotsky where there is a learner to teacher scaffolding relationship. \"Communal constructivism\" as a concept applies to those situations in which there is currently no expert knowledge or indeed research to underpin knowledge in an area. \"Communal constructivism\" refers specifically to the process of experts working together to create, record and publish new knowledge in emerging areas. In the seminal European SchoolNet research where for the first time academics were testing out how the internet could support classroom practice and pedagogy, experts from a number of countries set up test situations to generate and understand new possibilities for educational practice.\n\nBryn Holmes in 2001 applied this to student learning as described in an early paper, \"in this model, students will not simply pass through a course like water through a sieve but instead leave their own imprint in the learning process.\"\n\nConstructivism has influenced the course of programming and computer science. Some famous programming languages have been created, wholly or in part, for educational use, to support the constructionist theory of Seymour Papert. These languages have been dynamically typed, and reflective. Logo is the best known of them. Constructivism has also informed the design of interactive machine learning systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26250585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26250585", "title": "Delft Management Society", "text": "Delft Management Society\n\nThe Delft Management Society (DMS) is a student organization independent of any educational institution that acts as a bridge between students and the corporate world. The society is focused on the academic, career and social development of Delft University of Technology students. The society is based in Delft, Netherlands. The society has partners at multiple universities worldwide. \n\nThe society is an interfaculty initiative and provides an international platform for the exchange, foreign and Dutch Delft University of Technology students (15,321 students). DMS provides all students in Delft with the opportunity to manage their own projects or events. This is guided by a board consisting of four students.\n\n"}
{"id": "480417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=480417", "title": "Education in the Republic of Ireland", "text": "Education in the Republic of Ireland\n\nThe levels of Ireland's education are primary, secondary and higher (often known as \"third-level\" or tertiary) education. In recent years further education has grown immensely. Growth in the economy since the 1960s has driven much of the change in the education system. For universities there are student service fees (up to €3,000 in 2015), which students are required to pay on registration, to cover examinations, insurance and registration costs.\n\nThe Department of Education and Skills, under the control of the Minister for Education and Skills, is in overall control of policy, funding and direction, while other important organisations are the National Qualifications Authority of Ireland, the Higher Education Authority, and on a local level the Education and Training Boards are the only comprehensive system of government organisation. There are many other statutory and non-statutory bodies that have a function in the education system. The current Minister for Education is Joe McHugh.\n\nUnder the penal codes, the Irish Catholics were not allowed to have schools. Instead they set up highly informal secret operations that met in private homes, called \"hedge schools.\" Historians generally agree that they provided a kind of schooling, occasionally at a high level, for up to 400,000 students by the mid-1820s. J. R. R. Adams says the hedge schools testified “to the strong desire of ordinary Irish people to see their children receive some sort of education.” Antonia McManus argues that there “can be little doubt that Irish parents set a high value on a hedge school education and made enormous sacrifices to secure it for their children...[the hedge schoolteacher was] one of their own”. The penal laws were dropped in the 1790s, making the hedge schools legal although still not receiving government help or funding. \nFormal schools for Catholics under trained teachers began to appear after 1800. Edmund Ignatius Rice (1762-1844) founded two religious institutes of religious brothers: the Congregation of Christian Brothers and the Presentation Brothers. They opened numerous schools, which were visible, legal, and standardized. Discipline was notably strict.\n\nUnder the 1831 law establishing the National School system, public money became available. British government appointed the commissioner of national education whose task was to upgrade the quality of teaching and increase literacy in English. Hedge schools declined after 1831 as the Catholic bishops preferred this, as the new schools would be largely under the control of the Catholic Church and allow better control of the teaching of Catholic doctrine.\n\nStudents must go to school from ages 6 to 16 or until they have completed three years of second-level of education.\n\nIn 1973 the Irish language requirement for a second-level certificate was abandoned. However the Irish language remains a core subject taught in all public schools with exemptions given to individual pupils on grounds of significant periods lived abroad, or with learning difficulties etc.\n\nWhile English is the primary medium of instruction at all levels in most schools across the state, Gaelscoileanna i.e. Irish-language schools, have become increasingly popular outside Gaeltacht regions where they have traditionally been. In these schools, Irish is the primary medium of instruction at all levels and English is taught as a second language.\n\nAt third level, most university programs are through English with only a few Irish options. Some universities offer courses partly through French, German or Spanish.\n\nIreland has one of the best education systems in the world with regard to higher education achievements.\n\nEducation is compulsory for all children in Ireland from the ages of six to sixteen or until students have completed three years of second level education and including one sitting of the Junior Certificate examination. Primary education commonly starts at four to five years old. Children typically enroll in a Junior Infant class at age four or five depending on parental wishes. Some schools enrollment policies have age four by a specific date minimum age requirements.\n\nMost play schools in Ireland are in the private sector. Increasingly children of working parents, who are below school age, attend a myriad of crèches, play-schools, Montessori schools, etc., which have sprung up in response to the needs of modern families. These operate as businesses and may charge often substantial childcare fees. Since 2009, in response public demand for affordable childcare, children may receive two years free preschool the years prior to starting primary schools under the \"Early Childcare and Education Scheme\".\n\nIrish language Naíonraí are growing rapidly across Ireland. Nearly 4,000 preschoolers attend 278 preschool groups.\n\n\nChildren usually start at 9 a.m. and finish at 1.30 in Junior & Senior infants, while older children finish at 3 p.m.\n\nThe Junior Cycle is a three-year programme, culminating in the Junior Certificate examination. The Junior Certificate examination is sat in all subjects (usually 10 or 11) in early June, directly after the end of Third Year. \n\n\nThe Senior Cycle is a two-year programme to prepare students for the Leaving Certificate examinations. The Leaving Certificate examinations take place directly after the end of Sixth Year, with the first exam being held on the Wednesday following the June public holiday (the first Monday in June).\n\nTo prepare students for the State examination in both the Senior (Leaving Certificate) and Junior (Junior Certificate) cycles, many schools hold Mock Examinations (also known as Pre-Certificate Examinations) around February each year. These \"mocks\" are not state examinations: independent companies provide the exam papers and marking schemes – and are therefore not mandatory across all schools.\n\nThe Primary School Curriculum (1999) is taught in all schools. The document is prepared by the National Council for Curriculum and Assessment and leaves to the church authorities (usually the Catholic Church but not universally) the formulation and implementation of the religious curriculum in the schools they control. The curriculum seeks to celebrate the uniqueness of the child:\n\nThe Primary Certificate Examination (1929–1967) was the terminal examination at this level until the first primary-school curriculum, \"Curaclam na Bunscoile\" (1971), was introduced, though informal standardised tests are still performed. The primary school system consists of eight years: Junior and Senior Infants, and First to Sixth Classes. Most children attend primary school between the ages of four and twelve although it is not compulsory until the age of six. A minority of children start school at three.\n\nVirtually all state-funded primary schools — almost 97 percent — are under church control. Irish law allows schools under church control to consider religion the main factor in admissions. Oversubscribed schools often choose to admit Catholics over non-Catholics, a situation that has created difficulty for non-Catholic families. The United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child in Geneva asked James Reilly, the Minister for Children at that time, to explain the continuation of preferential access to state-funded schools on the basis of religion. He said that the laws probably needed to change, but noted it may take a referendum because the Irish constitution gives protections to religious institutions. The issue is most problematic in the Dublin area. A petition initiated by a Dublin attorney, Paddy Monahan, has received almost 20,000 signatures in favour of overturning the preference given to Catholic children. A recently formed advocacy group, Education Equality, is planning a legal challenge.\n\nPrimary education is generally completed at a national school, a multidenominational school, a gaelscoil or a preparatory school.\n\nAs of 2010 mainstream primary schools numbered as follows:\nMost students enter secondary school aged 12–13. Most students attend and complete secondary education, with approximately 90% of school-leavers taking the terminal examination, the Leaving Certificate, at age 16–19 (in 6th Year at secondary school). Secondary education is generally completed at one of four types of school:\nIn urban areas, there is considerable freedom in choosing the type of school the child will attend. The emphasis of the education system at second level is as much on breadth as on depth; the system attempts to prepare the individual for society and further education or work. This is similar to the education system in Scotland. Although in 2012, the Programme for International Student Assessment (Pisa) found Ireland to be 7th in reading and 20th in mathematics in a world survey at the age of 15.\n\nSome students opt for grinds to improve their grades.\n\nThe document \"Rules and Programme for Secondary Schools\" published by the Department of Education and Skills sets out the minimum standards of education required at this level. Examinations are overseen by the State Examinations Commission. Additional documents set out the standard in each element, module or subject.\n\n\nTherefore, a typical secondary school will consist of First to Third Year (with the Junior Certificate at the end of Third), the usually optional Transition Year (though compulsory in some schools), and Fifth and Sixth Year (with the Leaving Cert. at the end of Sixth).\n\nThe vast majority of students continue from lower level to senior level, with only 12.3% leaving after the Junior Certificate. This is lower than the EU average of 15.2%.\n\nIreland's secondary students rank above average in terms of academic performance in both the OECD and EU; having reading literacy, mathematical literacy and scientific literacy test scores better than average. Ireland has the second best reading literacy for teenagers in the EU, after Finland.\n\nThe \"Education for Persons with Special Educational Needs Act 2004\" established the framework for the education of students with special needs.\n\nThe National Council for Special Education (NCSE) supports students with physical and intellectual disabilities. Some schools provide specific services to students with disabilities. Students with dyslexia are offered additional supports were funding is available.\n\nA \"Special Needs Assistant\" (SNA) is a teaching assistant who is specialised in working with young people in the classroom setting who require additional learning support due to disability.\n\nThe Department of Education and Skills identifies disadvantaged schools and has schemes in place to provide additional assistance to low-income families and families experiencing financial hardship. Available assistance includes an allowance for school clothing and footwear, assistance with purchasing school books (administered by school principals), exemption from examination fees for the Leaving Certificate and Junior Certificate exams, and a 'remote areas boarding grant' that facilitates students living in remote areas to attend secondary school.\n\nHolidays vary depending on the school. Generally primary and secondary get similar holidays. The year is broken up into three terms: from the first week of September or last week in August to the week before Christmas. From the week after New Year's Day to the week before Easter Sunday and from the week after Easter Sunday to the end of May/Start of June. For 1st, 2nd and 5th Year secondary school students, their term finishes in the last week of May as they do not have state exams. Some schools allow Transition students to finish even earlier than 1st 2nd and 5th Years as they don't have any Summer Examinations. There is a mid-term (one week off halfway through a school term) around the Halloween bank holiday, two weeks off for Christmas: generally the last week in December and the first week in January, another mid-term in February, two weeks off for Easter and summer holidays. Bank Holidays are also taken off. Primary schools usually have July and August off, while secondary schools have June, July and August off except for 3rd and 6th Years sitting State exams in the first three weeks of June.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16736191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16736191", "title": "Esther Duflo", "text": "Esther Duflo\n\nEsther Duflo, FBA (; born 25 October 1972) is a French American economist, Co-Founder and Director of the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab (J-PAL), and Professor of Poverty Alleviation and Development Economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Duflo is an NBER Research Associate, serves on the board of the Bureau for Research and Economic Analysis of Development (BREAD), and is Director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research's development economics program.\n\nHer research focuses on microeconomic issues in developing countries, including household behavior, education, access to finance, health, and policy evaluation. Together with Abhijit Banerjee, Dean Karlan, Michael Kremer, John A. List, and Sendhil Mullainathan, she has been a driving force in advancing field experiments as an important methodology to discover causal relationships in economics.\n\nDuflo was born in 1972 in Paris. Her father Michel Duflo was a mathematics professor and her mother was a doctor. At age 8, she decided to become a historian.\n\nAfter studying in Lycée Henri-IV's Classes préparatoires \"B/L\", Duflo entered her undergraduate studies at École normale supérieure in Paris to study history. In her second year at university, she questioned her future as a professor and began considering a career in the civil service or politics. She spent ten months in Moscow starting in 1993. She taught French and worked on a history thesis that told how the Soviet Union \"had used the big construction sites, like the Stalingrad tractor factory, for propaganda, and how propaganda requirements changed the actual shape of the projects.\" In Moscow, she also worked as a research assistant for a French economist then connected to the Bank of Russia and, separately, for Jeffrey Sachs, the American economist at Harvard advising the Minister of Finance. The research posts helped her to conclude that \"economics had potential as a lever of action in the world\" and she could satisfy academic ambitions while doing \"things that mattered\".\n\nShe finished her degree in history and economics at École Normale Supérieure in 1994, and she received a master's degree from DELTA, now the Paris School of Economics, jointly with the École des hautes études en sciences sociales and the École Normale Supérieure in 1995. Subsequently, she completed a PhD in economics at MIT in 1999, under joint supervision of Abhijit Banerjee and Joshua Angrist. Upon completing her PhD, she was appointed assistant professor of economics at MIT and has been at MIT ever since, aside from being on leave to Princeton University in 2001–2002. She was promoted to associate professor (with tenure) in 2002, at 29, making her among the youngest faculty to be awarded tenure.\n\nHer PhD dissertation focused on effects of a natural experiment from data of an Indonesian school-expansion program of the 1970s to provide the first conclusive evidence that in a developing country, more education resulted in higher wages.\n\nIn 2003, she co-founded Poverty Action Lab at MIT, which has since conducted over 200 empirical development experiments and train development practitioners in running randomized controlled trials.\n\nShe won the 2014 Infosys Prize in Social Science-Economics.\n\nShe is a recipient of the 2010 John Bates Clark Medal for economists under 40 made the most significant contribution to economic thought and knowledge. She received her (first) honorary doctorate from the Université catholique de Louvain, on 2 February 2010.\n\nIn 2009 she was named a MacArthur Foundation Fellow, otherwise known as a \"genius\" grant. She is also a fellow of American Academy of Arts and Sciences from 2009. On 21 May 2009 she was selected as the first recipient of the Calvó-Armengol International Prize, which she finally received on 4 June 2010. That is awarded every two years to a top young researcher in economics or the social sciences for contributions to the theory and comprehension of the mechanisms of social interaction.\n\nThe US magazine \"Foreign Policy\" named her as one of the top 100 public intellectuals in the world in May 2008. In 2010, Foreign Policy again named her to its list of top 100 global thinkers. \"The Economist\" lists Duflo as one of the top 8 young economists in the world. She was named one of \"Time Magazine\"'s 100 most influential people in the world in April 2011.\n\nIn 2005, Le Monde, Cercle des économistes awarded her the Best Young French Economist prize. She was awarded the Elaine Bennett Research Prize by the American Economic Association in 2002, which honours a female economist under 40 who has made outstanding contributions in any field of economic research.\n\nIn 2012, Duflo was picked by \"Foreign Policy\" magazine as one of its Top 100 Global Thinkers.\n\nShe received the 2015 Princess of Asturias Social Sciences award in Spain.\n\nShe was the founding editor of the\" American Economic Journal: Applied Economics\" and is a co-editor of the \" Review of Economics and Statistics\" and the \"Journal of Development Economics\". Also, she is a member of the editorial committee of the \"Annual Review of Economics\" and a member of the Human Capital Research Programme within the International Growth Centre.\n\nShe is currently a co-director of the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab at MIT, and she writes a monthly column for \"Libération\", a French daily.\n\nShe was the main speaker at the first \"Bocconi Lecture\" of Bocconi University in 2010, followed in 2011 by Caroline Hoxby.\n\nIn April 2011, she released her latest book \"Poor Economics\", co-authored with Banerjee. It documents their 15 years of experience in conducting randomized control trials to alleviate poverty. The book has received a very positive acclaim. Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen called it \"a marvelously insightful book by the two outstanding researchers on the real nature of poverty.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8388099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8388099", "title": "Excellence in Cities", "text": "Excellence in Cities\n\nThe Excellence in Cities (EiC) programme was launched by the UK's Labour Government in March 1999 to raise standards and promote inclusion in inner cities and other urban areas. Initially targeted at secondary schools, the programme was later expanded to include primary schools, working alongside the Primary National Strategy.\n\nThe programme was funded by the government, with £200 million being spent on it in 2001-02, and an additional £300 million in 2002-03. Over 1300 secondary schools and 3600 primary schools in 58 local education authorities were involved in the EiC programme. In summer 2001, the percentage point increase in pupils achieving five GCSEs at A*-C in \"Excellence in Cities\" schools was almost double that of schools who weren't in the programme.\n\nThe programme tackled underachievement in schools, including the development of Learning Mentors, the development of Learning Support Units, provision for Gifted and Talented pupils and the construction of City Learning Centres. The programme also ran alongside the Leadership Incentive Grant and the Behaviour Improvement Programme. The Excellence Cluster concept was introduced to identify small groups of schools in pockets of deprivation, in both urban and rural areas that would benefit from EiC initiatives.\n\nResearch into the Excellence in Cities (EiC) initiative also found that while it had boosted results in Mathematics, it did not improve performance in English and Science of children aged 11 to 14 in Key Stage 3.\n\nThe programme started off covering just 25 \"local education authorities\" in September 1999, but gradually expanded that to include many more over the following years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26271869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26271869", "title": "Eye2eye Software", "text": "Eye2eye Software\n\nEye2eye Software Ltd is a UK educational software publisher, which has systematically photographed Britain in 360 degree panoramas and stills, publishing the collection as the school resource and home reference Eye2eye Britain. Using a portable panoramic camera developed by themselves they have followed a 'points of interest' approach--taking panoramas on mountains, beaches, inside parliaments, factories, heritage sites, etc. rather than a street (car) based approach like Google street view.\n\nEye2eye Software Ltd, based in Cambridge, England, was founded in 1998 by Martin Clemoes, son of the late Peter Clemoes. Eye2eye Britain may have been partly inspired by 1986 BBC Domesday Project developed by Acorn Computers Ltd where Martin worked before.\n\nNovember 1998 - first edition of Eye2eye Britain (1.0) published. Supplied on CD-ROM, this mapped out Britain in 10,000 digital photos (no panoramas). Each photo is captioned and indexed using metadata, e.g. topic, date of heritage sites on a timeline, as well as map location.\n\n1999 - Press interest in Eye2eye Britain.\n\nJanuary 2005 - First Panoramic Edition of Eye2eye Britain published. Added 950 full screen 360 by 105 degree panoramas, of England from Leeds in Yorkshire South, to 10,000 photos.\n\n2005-06 - Consumer press critical, better feedback for education.\n\nJanuary 2010 - Latest edition - Eye2eye Britain Panoramic 5 - published. 1,500 panoramas and 10,800 photos now cover mainland England, Wales and Scotland plus the largest of Britain's many islands. Edition 5 also supports other school needs such as Virtual learning environment.\n\nEye2eye's approach to panoramic photography depends on two technologies they have developed themselves:\n\nThis technology has shaped their approach to panorama-photographing Britain. They have used their portable camera system to capture points of interest panoramas on foot, e.g. interiors, beaches, tower-top or mountain-top views. Single-click capture copes well with places with movement, e.g. crowds, waves on beach. This approach has the advantage of covering places of [inter]national interest, but the disadvantage of being labour-intensive, so the quantity of panoramas (currently around 1,500) is less than in car-based projects like Google Street View. Eye2eye have also been able to write captions and indexes for each panorama.\n"}
{"id": "56618252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56618252", "title": "Florence LeSueur", "text": "Florence LeSueur\n\nFlorence Ruth LeSueur (March 17, 1898 – June 27, 1991) was an African-American civic leader, activist and the first woman president of an NAACP chapter. She was a champion of black rights in employment and education.\n\nShe was born as Florence Ruth Barrett on March 17, 1898 to Frank C. and Maude (née Lawson) Barrett in Pennsylvania. She attended Wilberforce University and later moved to Boston in 1935. LeSueur had been a long-time resident of the South End, a neighborhood in Boston, Massachusetts. \n\nFrom 1948 until 1951 she served as the president of the Boston branch of the NAACP, and was the first woman president nationwide. During her time with the NAACP, six black men were hired as Boston Elevated Railway drivers (the predecessor of the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority), due to her unrelenting determination. In order to persuade transit system officials that blacks deserved better job roles, LeSuerer organized demonstrations near the Dudley Square (MBTA station) and she led delegations for the cause, this eventually resulted in getting them hired at a higher job level as drivers. For more than 20 years she was a director of the NAACP branch. Additionally, in 1959 she served as president of the Harriet Tubman House (now part of United South End Settlements).\n\nShe died on June 27, 1991 at age 93 in a nursing home in Brockton, Massachusetts.\n"}
{"id": "25213644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25213644", "title": "Free Knowledge Institute", "text": "Free Knowledge Institute\n\nThe Free Knowledge Institute (FKI) is a non-profit organisation founded in 2006 in the Netherlands. Inspired by the free software movement, the FKI fosters the free exchange of knowledge in all areas of society by promoting freedom of use, modification, copying, and distribution of knowledge pertaining to education, technology, culture, and science.\n\nThe FKI coordinates and participates in projects concerning education, access to knowledge, intellectual property, and open educational resources.\n\nCommunication networks, and especially the Internet, have become the driving force of a revolution only comparable to the one that followed the invention of the printing press. In its years of existence, the Internet has given wings to our natural tendency to share information.\n\nHowever, still a dominant sector of society thinks that knowledge should be protected by several legal regimes commonly referred to with the term 'intellectual property'. This term suggests that knowledge can be exclusively owned and neglects the differences between tangible and intangible goods: while tangible goods have a scarcity problem, intangible goods can be copied and shared without limit and, when shared, tend to increase their total value.\n\nA countermovement started in the 1980s with the rise of the Free Software movement and open standards, which have produced a tremendous wealth of free software applications and form the basis of the current internet. The principles behind Free Software have inspired the unrestricted sharing and reusing of artistic and cultural works in the free content movement (including Creative Commons) and the creation and use of free educational materials in the educational sector. In a similar way, the Open Access movement promotes the sharing and open publication of research for advancing scientific knowledge.\n\nThe Free Knowledge Institute believes that by promoting the use of Free Knowledge in the fields of Technology, Education, Culture and Science more individuals and organisations will profit from the benefits of sharing knowledge.\n\nThe Free Knowledge Institute has formulated a set of principles that it considers basic for being consistent with its vision. These founding principles take as a starting point the sharing of knowledge in the tradition of copyleft and include the use of free software, adherence to open standards, the importance of education, respect for diversity and different cultures, transparency and consensus.\n\nIn order to work towards this vision, the Free Knowledge Institute participates in political debates and activism to highlight the wrongs of certain policies and propose alternatives. For that reason the FKI works together in various networks and coalitions with other groups and organisations. With the Open Net Coalition, a collective warning has been formulated about policy proposals in the EU parliament threatening internet neutrality.\n\nThe SELF Platform aims to become a collaborative web platform with high quality educational and training materials about Free Software and Open Standards. It is based on world-class Free Software technologies that permit both reading and publishing free materials, and is driven by a worldwide community.\n\nSELF (Science, Education and Learning in Freedom) is an international project that was initially financed by the European Commission which has developed a platform to encourage creative cooperation and the sharing of educational materials and continuous training, paying special attention to free software and open standards. Inspired by the Wikipedia model, the SELF Platform is open to the contributions of all those who would like to bring their knowledge to it, and share this knowledge without restrictions.\n\nThe Free Knowledge, Free Technology Conference (FKFT) was an event that centered the production and sharing of educational and training materials in the field of Free Software and Open Standards. It was held first in 2008 in Barcelona and was organised by the SELF Project and the Free Knowledge Institute.\n\nThe Free Technology Academy consists of an advanced virtual campus with course modules that can be followed entirely on-line. The learning materials are Open Educational Resources that can be studied freely, but learners enrolled in the FTA will be guided by professional teaching staff from the participating universities. The full master programme can be concluded at one of the universities.\nThe project financially supported by the Life Long Learning Programme (LLP) of the European Commission, is a collaboration between the FKI and various European universities and organisations like the \nOpen Universiteit Nederland (OUNL) from The Netherlands, the Open University of Catalonia (UOC) from Spain and others..\n\nThe Free Culture Forum was an international encounter on free culture and knowledge that took place in Barcelona from October 30 to November 1, 2009. It took place jointly with the second edition of the oXcars. During the Forum 200 organizations and individuals linked to free culture expressions discuss on the privatization of the creation and the intellectual property and its incidence in the access to the knowledge and the creation and distribution of the art, knowledge and culture. The Forum ended up with the definition of a \"Charter for Innovation, Creativity and Access to Knowledge\".\n\nThe first edition of the Forum was organised by Exgae, Networked politics and the Free Knowledge Institute.\n\n"}
{"id": "40039728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40039728", "title": "Gardiner Lyceum", "text": "Gardiner Lyceum\n\nThe Gardiner Lyceum was the first vocational trade school in the United States. The purpose of the school was for giving young men the skills they needed to accomplish their chosen trade. It was a vocational school education for farmers, agriculturists, and other specialized trades of the nineteenth century. It provided the scientific and technical education needed for their vocation or to become schoolmasters.\n\nRobert Hallowell Gardiner founded the school in 1822 on land with buildings he gave to the new school. The school was given statewide recognition when there was an Act (Chapter CXCIX) in addition to an Act to incorporate was passed in February 1823 by the state of Maine governor, the President of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives of the State of Maine, the president of the Bowdoin College, the president of the Waterville College and others called the Board of Visitors.\n\nThe directors of the Gardiner Lyceum school were men associated with higher education. The first principal and main instructor of the school was Benjamin Hale (president of Hobart College and a future professor at Dartmouth College). The next principal was a professor of Hamilton College of New York and later president of the State universities of Missouri, Maryland, and Wisconsin. The next principal was a supreme judge in the state of New Hampshire. The next principal was a graduate of Brown University.\n\nMaine legislature provided the school with $2,000 in funds in 1823 when the school opened. The legislature provided the school with funds of $1,000 per year for six years starting in 1825. The first year in operation the school had twenty students. The school had 53 students in 1824. It had 120 students in 1825. In 1826 the student level fell off to only 55 pupils that included only 2 Gardiner native residents.\n\nSince the location of the new school was in Gardiner, Maine and it was a lyceum (vocational secondary school, not a high school or college), it took on the name \"Gardiner Lyceum\" (advanced technical schooling in the town of Gardiner).\n\nThe courses were designed for the realistic and useful applications of mathematics and science with emphasis on liberal and cultural subjects. They were mainly designed to make scientific farmers and skillful craftsmen. The main object of the courses of the \" Gardiner Lyceum \" was intended to be something between High School, preparatory agenda for entering into college, and a college or university education. \" Gardiner Lyceum \" was intended as a practical vocational school that prepared the students with an immediate trade (e.g. farming). The school was intended as a two-year agenda. The school was a lyceum, a secondary schooling that was more technical that High School and less scholarly than a college or university education. It was for trade training for immediate employment in the field of their choice.\n\nThe courses of the school classes were in various fields of advanced mathematics, bookkeeping, surveying, mechanics, hydrostatics, pneumatics, chemistry, natural philosophy, and natural history. There were also courses in navigation and carpentry. The principal object of the lyceum was in establishing young men to be practical in running a farm profitable or do professionally whatever occupation they chose. The agricultural courses were designed to give future agriculturist the practical training of science upon which he could run a farm or be associated with farming in his trade. The school provided potential leads for employment in hopes of getting a return on its expenses in training the student.\n\nThere is a set of Laws printed in 1825 by P. Shelton on how the school was to be regulated - a copy held by the Library of Congress. In the Preface it gives the language \"It is almost unnecessary to add that this system is found not only to prepare young men for the real business of life, but to give them manliness of feeling and character.\"\n\nA stone building was built for the school. There was fourteen acres of land provided for agriculture training for those students that were going to become farmers and of agricultural occupations. The land was on the Kennebec River in Gardiner and worth about $4,000 at the time. The school had available to the pupils, besides books, a workshop at no cost to them which consisted of circular saws, models, minerals, and specimens in natural history. The school additionally provided modern equipment and tools for training.\n\nThe school struggled financially for 6 years from 1826 until it closed in 1832 for various reasons, but mostly due to lack of funds that it needed to continue running. Mr. Gardiner, the founder, then had to close the school. \n\nThe concept of teaching \"scientific farming\" was first started by the \"Gardiner Lyceum\". In the United States about a thousand similar schools teaching this concept were in place a decade later.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "294211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=294211", "title": "Globe", "text": "Globe\n\nA globe is a spherical model of Earth, of some other celestial body, or of the celestial sphere. Globes serve similar purposes to maps, but unlike maps, do not distort the surface that they portray except to scale it down. A globe of Earth is called a \"terrestrial globe\". A globe of the celestial sphere is called a \"celestial globe\".\n\nA globe shows details of its subject. A terrestrial globe shows land masses and water bodies. It might show nations and prominent cities and the network of latitude and longitude lines. Some have raised relief to show mountains. A celestial globe shows stars, and may also show positions of other prominent astronomical objects. Typically it will also divide the celestial sphere up into constellations.\n\nThe word \"globe\" comes from the Latin word \"globus\", meaning \"sphere\". Globes have a long history. The first known mention of a globe is from Strabo, describing the Globe of Crates from about 150 BC. The oldest surviving terrestrial globe is the Erdapfel, wrought by Martin Behaim in 1492. The oldest surviving celestial globe sits atop the Farnese Atlas, carved in the 2nd century Roman Empire.\n\nFlat maps are created using a map projection that inevitably introduces an increasing amount of distortion the larger the area that the map shows. A globe is the only representation of the Earth that does not distort either the shape or the size of large features – land masses, bodies of water, etc.\n\nThe Earth's circumference is quite close to 40 million metres. Many globes are made with a circumference of one metre, so they are models of the Earth at a scale of 1:40 million. In imperial units, many globes are made with a diameter of one foot, yielding a circumference of 3.14 feet and a scale of 1:41,777,000. Globes are also made in many other sizes.\n\nSometimes a globe has surface texture showing topography; in these, elevations are exaggerated, otherwise they would be hardly visible. Most modern globes are also imprinted with parallels and meridians, so that one can tell the approximate coordinates of a specific place. Globes may also show the boundaries of countries and their names.\n\nMany terrestrial globes have one celestial feature marked on them: a diagram called the analemma, which shows the apparent motion of the Sun in the sky during a year.\n\nGlobes generally show north at the top, but many globes allow the axis to be swiveled so that southern portions can be viewed conveniently. This capability also permits exploring the earth from different orientations to help counter the north-up bias caused by conventional map presentation.\n\nCelestial globes show the apparent positions of the stars in the sky. They omit the Sun, Moon and planets because the positions of these bodies vary relative to those of the stars, but the ecliptic, along which the Sun moves, is indicated.\n\nThe sphericity of the Earth was established by Greek astronomy in the 3rd century BC, and the earliest terrestrial globe appeared from that period. The earliest known example is the one constructed by Crates of Mallus in Cilicia (now Çukurova in modern-day Turkey), in the mid-2nd century BC.\n\nNo terrestrial globes from Antiquity or the Middle Ages have survived. An example of a surviving celestial globe is part of a Hellenistic sculpture, called the Farnese Atlas, surviving in a 2nd-century AD Roman copy in the Naples Archaeological Museum, Italy.\n\nEarly terrestrial globes depicting the entirety of the Old World were constructed in the Islamic world. According to David Woodward, one such example was the terrestrial globe introduced to Beijing by the Persian astronomer, Jamal ad-Din, in 1267.\n\nThe earliest extant terrestrial globe was made in 1492 by Martin Behaim (1459–1537) with help from the painter Georg Glockendon. Behaim was a German mapmaker, navigator, and merchant. Working in Nuremberg, Germany, he called his globe the \"Nürnberg Terrestrial Globe.\" It is now known as the Erdapfel. Before constructing the globe, Behaim had traveled extensively. He sojourned in Lisbon from 1480, developing commercial interests and mingling with explorers and scientists. In 1485–1486, he sailed with Portuguese explorer Diogo Cão to the coast of West Africa. He began to construct his globe after his return to Nürnberg in 1490.\n\nAnother early globe, the Hunt–Lenox Globe, ca. 1510, is thought to be the source of the phrase \"Hic Sunt Dracones\", or “Here be dragons”. A similar grapefruit-sized globe made from two halves of an ostrich egg was found in 2012 and is believed to date from 1504. It may be the oldest globe to show the New World. Stefaan Missine, who analyzed the globe for the Washington Map Society journal \"Portolan\", said it was “part of an important European collection for decades.” After a year of research in which he consulted many experts, Missine concluded the Hunt–Lenox Globe was a copper cast of the egg globe.\n\nA facsimile globe showing America was made by Martin Waldseemueller in 1507. Another \"remarkably modern-looking\" terrestrial globe of the Earth was constructed by Taqi al-Din at the Constantinople Observatory of Taqi ad-Din during the 1570s.\n\nThe world’s first seamless celestial globe was built by Mughal scientists under the patronage of Jahangir.\n\n\"Globus\" IMP, electro-mechanical devices including five-inch globes have been used in Soviet and Russian spacecraft from 1961 to 2002 as navigation instruments. In 2001, the TMA version of the Soyuz spacecraft replaced this instrument with a virtual globe.\nIn the 1800s small pocket globes (less than 3 inches) were status symbols for gentlemen and educational toys for rich children.\n\nTraditionally, globes were manufactured by gluing a printed paper map onto a sphere, often made from wood.\n\nThe most common type has long, thin gores (strips) of paper that narrow to a point at the poles, small disks cover over the inevitable irregularities at these points. The more gores there are, the less stretching and crumpling is required to make the paper map fit the sphere. This method of globe making was illustrated in 1802 in an engraving in The English Encyclopedia by George Kearsley .\n\nModern globes are often made from thermoplastic. Flat, plastic disks are printed with a distorted map of one of the Earth's Hemispheres. This is placed in a machine which molds the disk into a hemispherical shape. The hemisphere is united with its opposite counterpart to form a complete globe.\n\nUsually a globe is mounted so that its spin axis is 23.5° from vertical, which is the angle the Earth's spin axis deviates from perpendicular to the plane of its orbit. This mounting makes it easy to visualize how seasons change.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24029782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24029782", "title": "Grey Literature International Steering Committee", "text": "Grey Literature International Steering Committee\n\nThe Grey Literature International Steering Committee GLISC was established in 2006 after the 7th International Conference on Grey Literature (GL7) held in Nancy (France) on 5–6 December 2005.\n\nDuring this conference, the Istituto Superiore di Sanità (ISS) (Rome, Italy) presented guidelines for the production of scientific and technical reports documents included in the wider category of grey literature (GL) defined at the International Conferences on Grey Literature held in Luxembourg (1997) and in New York (2004) – as “information produced on all levels of government, academics, business and industry in electronic and print formats not controlled by commercial publishing i.e. where publishing is not the primary activity of the producing body”.\n\nThe Italian initiative for the adoption of uniform requirements for the production of reports was discussed during a Round Table on Quality Assessment by a small group of GL producers, librarians and information professionals who agreed to collaborate in the revision of the guidelines proposed by ISS.\n\nThe group approving these guidelines – informally known as the “Nancy Group” – has been formally defined as the Grey Literature International Steering Committee (GLISC).\n\nThe recommendations are adapted from the Uniform Requirements for Manuscripts Submitted to Biomedical Journals, produced by the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE) - better known as “Vancouver Style” (updated February 2006, available from http://www.icmje.org/ and now adopted by more than 500 biomedical journals). These requirements also took into consideration the basic principles of ISO Standard Documentation entitled “Presentation of scientific and technical reports” (ISO 5966/1982) withdrawn in 2000. The ISO 5966 no longer met the requirements of ITC (Information Technology Communication), however, it still provides useful tips in the preparation of reports.\n\nThe Guidelines are created primarily to help authors and GL producers in their mutual task of creating and distributing accurate, clear, easily accessible reports in different fields. The goal of the Guidelines is, in fact, to permit an independent and correct production of institutional reports in accordance with basic editorial principles.\n\nThe Guidelines include ethical principles related to the process of evaluating, improving, and making reports available and the relationships between GL producers and authors. The latter sections address the more technical aspects of preparing and submitting reports. GLISC believes the entire document is relevant to the concerns of both authors and GL producers.\n\nThe Guidelines are informally known as \"Nancy style\".\n\nThese are the institutions which officially adopted the \"Nancy Style\" in the production and distribution of grey literature.\n\nMany other institutions all over the world do support and use the GLISC guidelines without a formal agreement which would require longer procedures.\n\nAuthorship: The GLISC guidelines were prepared by Paola De Castro and Sandra Salinetti from the Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome (Italy). They were critically revised by Joachim Schöpfel and Christiane Stock (INIST-CNRS, Nancy, France), Dominic Farace (GreyNet, Amsterdam, The Netherlands), Catherine Candea and Toby Green (OECD, Paris, France) and Keith G. Jeffery (CCLRC, Chilton Didcot, UK). The work was accompanied by Marcus A. Banks (Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, USA), Stefania Biagioni (ISTI-CNR, Pisa, Italy), June Crowe (Information International Associates Inc., IIA, Oak Ridge, USA) and Markus Weber (Swiss Federal Office of Public Health, Berne, Switzerland).\n\nStructure: The guidelines are divided in five sections:\n\nThe annex contains references and a list of institutions adopting the guidelines.\n\nUpdate: The first version 1.0 from March 2006 was updated in July 2007 (version 1.1).\n\nTranslation: Version 1.1 was translated in French, German and Italian and Spanish.\n\nAvailability: Version 1.1 and translations are available on the GLISC website.\n\nThe total content of the Guidelines may be reproduced for educational, not-for-profit purposes without regard for copyright; the Committee encourages distribution of the material.\n\nThe GLISC policy is for interested organizations to link to the official English language document at www.glisc.info. The GLISC does not endorse posting of the document on websites other than https://web.archive.org/web/20090918235208/http://www.glisc.info/ . The GLISC welcomes organizations to reprint or translate this document into languages other than English for no-profit purposes.\n\nThe ANSI/NISO Standard Z39.18-2005 Scientific and Technical Reports – Preparation, Presentation, and Preservation (released in 2005) has been considered a valuable source for comparison. The major differences concerning the two documents as a whole regard:\n\n\nThey are different in that the “Nancy style” represents guidelines – that is general principles agreed upon by a small group of experts, to be followed as an indication or outline of policy or conduct –, while the ANSI/NISO Z39.18 is a proper standard, developed by the Standards Committees of the US National Information Standards Organization (NISO), subject to rigorous control and approval process including peer review. This is why also the structure of the two documents is different since the standard may repeat concepts in different sections which may be used separately, while the Guidelines are intended as an easy to read document giving the general idea for recommended items. The Guidelines, different from standards, do not give full details on format and style. Moreover, the “Nancy style” represents international guidelines developed by a corporate author (GLISC), which worked on the draft proposed by the Istituto Superiore di Sanità, and signed approval of this best practice on behalf of their respective organizations, while the ANSI/NISO Z39.18 is a national standard approved by the American National Standards Institute through a number of Voting Members.\n\nThe “Nancy style” is mostly paper oriented giving recommendations on report preparation mainly reflecting a traditional paper structure, while the organization pattern of the ANSI/NISO Z39.18 is user-based more than content-based. The key concepts incorporated in the American standard mainly refer to metadata, persistence of links, interoperability, creation, discovery/retrieval, presentation in digital format (DTD, XML, XSL), maintenance and preservation (original content, software and media); it also contains a metadata schema, which is absent in the Guidelines.\n\n\nAll material included in the “Nancy style” is approved by the GLISC, while the ANSI/NISO Z39.18 provides a large amount of additional information (almost half of the pages) that is not part of the Standard (Appendices including selected annotated bibliography, glossary, Dublin Core data elements, etc.).\n\n\nIn general, the “Nancy style” contains technical requirements for a report, but does not include full details (i.e. format, style, etc.); yet, it provides important elements, which are not present or not fully described in the ANSI/NISO Z39.18. \nAn initial section is explicitly devoted to authorship, editorship, peer review, conflicts of interest, privacy and confidentiality. \nProducers are strongly recommended to issue instructions to guide authors in the production of a formally correct document containing ethical and editorial issues as well as indications for formats, styles, illustrations, etc. \nSpecial attention is given to revision editing as GL is not generally peer reviewed, or produced with editorial support; therefore, it is fundamental that authors be aware of the importance of a careful revision of their texts before diffusion. \nThe adoption of the “Vancouver style” is recommended and examples and rules are given as a fundamental step for information retrieval.\nAs regards document structure, it is basically the same in “Nancy style” and ANSI/NISO Z39.18, with minor terminological variations. Yet, the American standard explicitly gives indication on:\n– Report Documentation Page (since it is used by some agencies within the federal government, and also some sample pages are given).\n– Distribution list.\n– Glossary (although not part of the Standard).\n– Executive abstract.\n\n\nSince the “Nancy style” represents guidelines and not a standard, all technical considerations are limited to the essential, while the ANSI/NISO Z39.18 gives indications (all absent in the “Nancy style”) on:\nThe Section 6 “Presentation and display” describes standard methods for ensuring consistency in presentation including designing visual and tabular matter, formatting, etc. and makes a distinction between rules applicable to all reports regardless of mode of publication (paper or digital) and rules applicable to reports published in paper form only. \nSpecific information is provided on fonts, line length, margins, page numbering, style, units and numbers, formulas and equations, paper (format and type), printing equipment, ink.\nThe ANSI/NISO Z39.18 also includes specifications on index entries and errata, which are not present in the “Nancy style”.\n\nMany institutions considered the relevance of the GLISC Guidelines for the production and distribution of technical reports and for educational purposed, therefore, accepted to carry out the translation of the original English version into different languases.\n\nTranslations are available in:\n\nThe GLISC guidelines and the impact of grey literature on science communication were also appreciated by the European Association of Science Editors which included a chapter on grey literature in their Science Editor's Handbook. \nThe use of GLISC guidelines is also supported by the European NECOBELAC Project Necobelac financed by the European Commission within the [7 Framework program], by the US National Library of Medicine , by the German National Library of Science and Technology and by the French Academic Agency of Francophony .\n\nNext steps for updating the GLISC Guidelines could be:\nThe Guidelines should be considered as a suggested model rather than a model in itself; they represent a basic step to improve quality in the different stages of GL production in view of its wider electronic circulation. The proposals for their updating will make them more effective, although a regular revision is required to keep pace with the changing ITC scenarios and information policies (see De Castro et al. 2006).\n\nThe “Nancy style” is mostly paper oriented, because editorial consistency and ethical considerations recommended for traditional documents do apply also to digital publications. Yet, progressively more and more GL is being produced, stored, published and made available electronically and in order to manage relevant GL publications, metadata are required. The importance of metadata, as the natural evolution of library catalogue records, had been already stressed in the first version of the “Nancy style” (when dealing with report structure: Section 4.2 of the Guidelines), but no metadata schema was then provided since it was difficult to find a formula that would satisfy all requirements. At present, much GL is catalogued using the Dublin Core Metadata Standard (DC). However – as Keith Jeffery of the UK Council for the Central Laboratory of the Research Councils (CCLRC) pointed out working on the “Nancy style” draft – this standard suffers from several problems: a) it is machine-readable but not machine-understandable; b) it does not have a formalised syntax or semantics and therefore is open to ambiguous interpretations. Therefore, he proposed a formalised metadata standard (an umbrella standard, mainly generated from Dublin Core metadata: “Formalised DC” based on the concepts of the CERIF Model (). Yet, as the traditional cataloguing practice has different rules, similarly different communities may adopt different metadata schema. Nowadays the World Wide Web provides the possibility to search for information across heterogeneous archives/databases/catalogues, but the systems managing different information resources must be “interoperable” (capable to work together), and interoperability requires that the same metadata schema be used. As Stefania Biagioni (of the Italian Istituto di Scienza e Tecnologie dell’Informazione - ISTI, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche) clearly commented, there is much work towards standardization and the Dublin Core Initiative () is receiving worldwide consensus as it suggests adding a very simple metadata record to any specialized one.\n\nWhen consensus was to be reached to release the first version of the Guidelines, a formal approval was asked to all organizations wishing to officially adopt them. Contrary to expectations, consensus was given only by a small number of institutions as the official adoption was sometimes a difficult step. Yet, support and encouragement did not lack: a less formal approach in launching the Guidelines and getting them adopted was soon granted by all institutions involved in their creation. For example, a large international organization (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development - OECD), which took part in the development of the Guidelines, expressed concern to officially endorse them (and in fact, it did not), because that would require a great deal of internal debate and discussion with their own members. Suggestions were made to follow a voluntary system backed up by an official recognition of compliance to facilitate the adoption of the Guidelines. This would encourage like-minded supporters within an organisation to informally use the Guidelines and then gain the official “stamp of approval” to show that they are really following them. Actually, other organizations policies take a voluntary approach in the documents they recommend, such as the Association of Learned and Professional Society Publishers (ALPSP) with more than 230 not-for-profit publishers. As suggested by the OECD, voluntary sign-up is a less demanding step for organisations to take, but the effect is the same – more and more publishers will opt to use them.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "314964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=314964", "title": "Herbert Kroemer", "text": "Herbert Kroemer\n\nHerbert Kroemer (born August 25, 1928), a professor of electrical and computer engineering at the University of California, Santa Barbara, received his Ph.D. in theoretical physics in 1952 from the University of Göttingen, Germany, with a dissertation on hot electron effects in the then-new transistor, setting the stage for a career in research on the physics of semiconductor devices. In 2000, Kroemer, along with Zhores I. Alferov, was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics \"for developing semiconductor heterostructures used in high-speed- and opto-electronics\". The other co-recipient of the Nobel Prize was Jack Kilby for his invention and development of integrated circuits and micro-chips.\n\nHe worked in a number of research laboratories in Germany and the United States and taught electrical engineering at the University of Colorado from 1968 to 1976. He joined the UCSB faculty in 1976, focusing its semiconductor research program on the emerging compound semiconductor technology rather than on mainstream silicon technology.\n\nKroemer was elected as a member of the National Academy of Engineering in 1997 and the National Academy of Sciences in 2003. He always preferred to work on problems that are ahead of mainstream technology. In the 1950s, he invented the drift transistor and was the first to point out that advantages could be gained in various semiconductor devices by incorporating heterojunctions. Most notably, in 1963 he proposed the concept of the double-heterostructure laser, which is now a central concept in the field of semiconductor lasers. Kroemer became an early pioneer in molecular beam epitaxy, concentrating on applying the technology to untried new materials.\n\nAlong with Charles Kittel he co-authored the popular textbook \"Thermal Physics\", first published in 1980, and still used today. He is also the author of the textbook \"Quantum Mechanics for Engineering, Materials Science and Applied Physics\".\n\nKroemer is an atheist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13551512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13551512", "title": "History of the University of Tehran", "text": "History of the University of Tehran\n\nThe history of the University of Tehran goes back to the days of Dar ul-Funun and the Qajar dynasty. The modern university as it is today was formally established in 1934.\n\nMost Faculties of the University of Tehran were created by integrating already existing higher education institutions such as Dar al-Funun.\n\nThe \"Faculty of Medicine\" for example, was particularly the successor to the Dar al-Funun Department of Medicine, established in 1851, which had become the School of Medicine (Madreseh-ye tebb) in 1919.Charles Oberling, a well-known French pathologist, was appointed as dean of the Faculty in 1939. Oberling was instrumental in bringing the hospitals of Tehran under the direct control of the Faculty of Medicine of the university.\n\nThe \"Faculty of Agriculture\" as another example, was founded on the basis of three previously established schools. The first was the \"Mozaffar School of Agronomy\" (the first modern agricultural school in Persia) which was itself founded in 1900 under the direction of a Belgian agricultural expert named \"Dascher\". The second was the \"Farmers School of Karaj\", which was founded in 1918 under the direction of an Austrian by the name of Hans Schricker. The third was the \"School of Agronomy and Rural Industries\" (Madreseh-ye alee-e felahat va sanāye'-e rustāee).\n\nThe \"Faculty of Fine Arts and Architecture\" was founded by absorbing the \"School of Applied Arts and Crafts\" (Madreseh-ye sanāye' va honar), which had been founded by the famous painter Kamal-ol-molk, with the \"School of Architecture\" (Madreseh-ye alee-e me'mari). The first director of the College (or \"Honarkadeh\" as it came to be called) was Andre Godard, the French archaeologist and architect. The College was closely modeled on the French École des Beaux-Arts.\n\nThe \"Faculty of Law and Political Science\" was founded with the merger of the \"Tehran School of Political Sciences\" (Madreseh-ye olum-e siyasi) which itself had been founded in 1899, with the \"School of Law\" (Madreseh-ye alee-e hoquq), which had been established in 1918. Adolphe Perney (a French advisor of the Ministry) was appointed as dean, and the Faculty was directed by a cadre of capable Iranian and Western academics such as Dehkhoda, Gild Brand (from Russia), Sayyed Mohammad Taddayon (a Minister), Julian Lafin (a Frenchman), and Mirza Javad Khan Ameri, among many others.\n\nThe first official step for the establishment of Tehran University occurred on March 31, 1931 when Minister of Court Abdolhossein Teymourtash wrote Issa Sadiq who was completing his doctoral dissertataion at Columbia University in New York to inquire as to requirements for the establishment of a University in Tehran. Sadiq considered the letter an invitation to outline a comprehensive scheme for the establishment of a University.\nIn January 1933, during the cabinet meeting, the subject was brought up. Ali Asghar Hekmat, the acting minister of the Ministry of Education stated the following words there:\n\nHis words had a profound impact on everyone in the meeting, resulting in the acceptance of the proposal. Thus allocating an initial budget of 250,000 Tomans, the Ministry of Education was authorized to find a suitable land for the establishment of the university and take necessary measures to construct the building as soon as possible.\n\nAli Asghar Hekmat in collaboration and consultation with Andre Godard, a French skillful architect - who was serving the Ministry of Education as an engineer, promptly began looking for a suitable location for the University grounds. By the orders of Reza Shah, the compound of Jalaliyeh garden was selected. Jalaliyeh garden was located in the north of the then Tehran between Amirabad village and the northern trench of Tehran. This beautiful garden, full of orchards was founded in the early 1900s during the final years of Nasir ad- Din Shah, by the order of Prince Jalal ad-dawlah.\n\nThe master plan of the campus buildings was drawn up by French architects Roland Dubrulle and Maxime Siroux, Swiss architect Alexandre Moser, as well as Andre Godard, Nicolai Markov and Mohsen Foroughi. The influences of early 20th century modernist architecture are today readily visible on the main campus grounds of the University.\n\nThe University of Tehran officially inaugurated in 1934. The Amir-abad (North Karegar) campus was added in 1945 after American troops left the property as World War II was coming to an end.\n\nThe university admitted women as students for the first time in 1937.\n\nAfter the 1940s, the university increasingly began moving away from the French influence and started modeling its structure and curricula after American universities. Many colleges and faculties were either assisted by academic institutions in the United States, or were directly led by American universities: The \"Faculty of Agriculture\" for example, was largely expanded with the assistance of the University of Utah.\n\nIn 1954, the \"Institute of Business Administration\" (Mo'assaseh-ye olum-e edari) was established with the help of the University of Southern California, directed by Harry Marlow of USC, offering masters and Ph.D degrees. That institute is the current Tehran University Faculty of Management.\n\nIn 1958, the \"Institute of Journalism\" (Mo'asseseh-ye ruz-nameh negari) was founded with cooperation of James Wellard of the University of Virginia.\n\nIn 1965, a post doctoral program of cytopathology was inaugurated with the assistance of Johns Hopkins University.\n\nAnd in 1971, construction of a new building designed by Abdolaziz Farmanfarmayan was completed, which housed the University's main Central Library which today holds nearly 700,000 volumes, a large collection of Persian manuscripts, many of them unique, as well as 1800 periodicals from all over the world.\n\nIn 1986, by legislation of the National Parliament, the university's oversized College of Medicine separated into the independent Tehran University of Medical Sciences (TUMS), coming under the new Ministry of Health and Medical Education. The university (TUMS) is currently Iran's most prestigious medical school with 13,000 students.\n\nTehran University of Medical Sciences however publishes all its scientific research under the name \"University of Tehran\" and continues to enjoy close relations with Tehran University's main campus.\n\n"}
{"id": "15141893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15141893", "title": "Japanese language education in Mongolia", "text": "Japanese language education in Mongolia\n\nJapanese language education in Mongolia formally dates back to 1975, when the National University of Mongolia established an elective course in Japanese language. A 2003 survey found 199 teachers teaching 9,080 students of Japanese at 67 different institutions.\n\nThe study of Japanese in Mongolia, in common with the study of English and German language, began to expand early in the 1990s in the so-called \"language boom\" which occurred as the country began to liberalise. In the 1970s and 1980s, only 3-5 students enrolled each year in the single Japanese course offered by the National University of Mongolia; Mongolians who went to Japan as international scholarship students typically had little language preparation beforehand, and took courses at the Osaka University of Foreign Studies to catch up before beginning their subject-area studies. However, the situation began to improve in the late 1980s, when NUM established an evening course in Japanese, and in 1989, when two more non-school institutions began offering Japanese courses. NUM established a full major in the subject in 1990; one school also began offering Japanese language instruction to primary and secondary students that year.\n\nThe Ministry of Education has not established a standardised curriculum for Japanese language instruction at the secondary levels, as it has for the mandatory foreign languages of English and Russian. Primary and secondary students compose only 13.6% of all students of Japanese in the country; the rest are divided roughly equally between institutions of higher education and non-school institutions. However, the student-teacher ratios are much more favourable in institutions of higher education, with roughly 33 students per teacher, as compared to 109 students per teacher in non-school institutions. Textbooks in use mainly consist of those donated by the Japan Foundation; the beginners' textbook is one of the more popular ones. A textbook aimed specifically at Mongolian learners was published in July 1996.\n\nCommon motivations for language learning include the desire to study in Japan, to understand Japanese culture, and to learn about Japanese technology; tourism and the desire to learn about Japanese politics in contrast were not widely cited as reasons for learning the language. Teachers feel there are a sufficient number of beginning and intermediate level courses, but not enough advanced-level courses.\n\nMongolian grammar is somewhat similar to that of Japanese. Most Mongolian case markers have direct parallels among Japanese particles, but, for example, the nominative case in Mongolian is unmarked, and the objective-case marker is sometimes dropped, especially when the object is definite; beginning Mongolian learners of Japanese carry the same habits over into Japanese, resulting in errors. One distinction that is difficult for learners in Mongolia is that between the locative particles \"ni\" and \"de\", used respectively to describe the location of existence and the location of the action of a verb; Mongolian does not distinguish between the two. The usage of verbs for \"to come\" and \"to go\" also differs slightly.\n\nThe expectation of most learners of Japanese in Mongolia is that courses should focus on the teaching of kanji, to the exclusion of other aspects of the language; teachers report that this is especially a problem due to pressure from parents of students at the elementary and secondary levels.\n\nThe Japanese Language Proficiency Test has been offered in Mongolia since 2000. As of 2006, it was offered only in Ulan Bator. The number of examinees rose by 75% between 2003 and 2006; as in China and South Korea, but differing from other Asian countries, the Level 2 examination, aimed at students who have completed 600 contact hours of instruction, is the most widely attempted, and the Level 4 examination, aimed at beginning students with 150 contact hours of instruction, is the least popular. JETRO's Business Japanese Test was not offered in Mongolia as of 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41962812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41962812", "title": "LaunchCode", "text": "LaunchCode\n\nLaunchCode is a non-profit organization based in St. Louis, Missouri, that works with hundreds of companies to set up paid apprenticeships in technology for talented people who lack the traditional credentials to land a good job.\n\nCo-founded in 2013 by Square, Inc. co-founder Jim McKelvey, Dan Lohman, Zach Lou, Brendan Lind, and others. LaunchCode was named by the \"St. Louis Riverfront Times\" as 2014's \"The Best Thing to Happen to St. Louis\".\n\nIn December 2014, LaunchCode opened an office in Miami, Florida, to serve southeast Florida.\n\nMcKelvey and Lind say LaunchCode was an attempt to remedy a problem they saw in St. Louis:\n\nLaunchCode’s practice is founded upon finding intelligent, hardworking people who need jobs and giving them skills and opportunities to get them. Candidates do not necessarily need to have a background in computer science.\n\nOnce placed in a LaunchCode position, a candidate works at another company in an apprenticeship, where he or she is paired with a mentor and given training on the job. LaunchCode encourages companies to use pair programming, which allows an inexperienced programmer to learn from a more senior one. Ideally, at the end of this 2- to 3-month apprenticeship, the candidate will be hired by the company.\n\nPeter Downs wrote in \"The Wall Street Journal\",\n\nMcKelvey said that if LaunchCode is successful, \"I believe that we’ll actually create a talent surplus, then you’ll start to see companies moving to this region to take advantage of that surplus.”\nIn the first round, LaunchCode is placing coders at 100 companies, including Enterprise Holdings, MasterCard, Monsanto, Build-a-Bear, and Panera.\n\nRecognizing a deficit of coders with basic skills, LaunchCode collaborated with edX to offer free HarvardX programming classes in downtown St. Louis. Jim McKelvey and Brendan Lind explain on edX.org: “To support those who want to learn programming as the first step to a career, LaunchCode is holding city-wide study sessions to support HarvardX’s CS50x Introduction to Computer Science class. By creating peer-groups and supplying mentors, LaunchCode hopes to help more students learn the material.”\n\nLaunchCode started an all-women's community coding group, CoderGirl, in May 2014 in St. Louis. The group welcomes women programmers of any skill level, from beginners to established developers looking for a group space in which to work. Mentors are available to assist with specific programming questions and problems, as well as serve as a broader community supporting women in technology fields. By fostering a network of support, LaunchCode and CoderGirl hope to diminish the hiring gap in technology fields, and provide pathways to employment.\nLaunchCode holds classes and job-readiness activities at its Mentor Center, located at 4811 Delmar Boulevard. The Mentor Center opened on October 29, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "41358634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41358634", "title": "Libraries and the LGBTQ community", "text": "Libraries and the LGBTQ community\n\nIn the post-Stonewall era, the role of libraries in providing information and services to LGBTQ individuals has been a topic of discussion among library professionals. Libraries can often play an important role for LGBTQ individuals looking to find information about coming out, health, and family topics, as well as leisure reading. In the past forty years, advocate organizations for LGBTQ content in libraries have emerged, and numerous theorists have discussed various aspects of LGBTQ library service including privacy concerns, programming, collection development considerations and librarian/staff education needs, as well as special services for juvenile and teen patrons.\n\nCommensurate with the LGBT rights movement in other arenas, LGBTQ activists began visibly advocating for greater representation in libraries in 1969. In 1970, the Task Force on Gay Liberation formed within the American Library Association. Now known as the GLBT Round Table, this organization is the oldest LGBTQ professional organization in the United States. Barbara Gittings became its coordinator in 1971. She pushed the American Library Association for more visibility for gays and lesbians in the profession. She staffed a kissing booth at the Dallas convention of the ALA, underneath the banner \"Hug a Homosexual,\" with a \"women only\" side and a \"men only\" side. When no one took advantage of it, she and \"Patience and Sarah\" author Alma Routsong (pen name: Isabel Miller) kissed in front of rolling television cameras. In describing its success, despite most of the reaction being negative, Gittings said, \"We needed to get an audience. So we decided, let's show gay love live. We were offering free—mind you, free—same-sex kisses and hugs. Let me tell you, the aisles were mobbed, but no one came into the booth to get a free hug. So we hugged and kissed each other. It was shown twice on the evening news, once again in the morning. It put us on the map.\"\n\nIn the early 1970s, the Task Force on Gay Liberation campaigned to have books about the gay liberation movement at the Library of Congress reclassified from HQ 71–471 (“Abnormal Sexual Relations, Including Sexual Crimes”). In 1972, after receiving a letter requesting the reclassification, the Library of Congress agreed to make the shift, reclassifying those books into a newly created category, HQ 76.5 (“Homosexuality, Lesbianism—Gay Liberation Movement, Homophile Movement”).\n\nBarbara Gittings July 31, 1932 – February 18, 1972\nGay rights pioneer Barbara Gittings advocated for a revolution in the inclusion and cataloging of LGBTQ materials in public libraries to create a more positive, supportive, informative environment for all members of the community.\n\nIn the 1980s, literature began to emerge which examined information seeking behaviors of gay and lesbian library patrons. The 1981 book \"The Joy of Cataloging\" by Sanford Berman outlined the difficulties of accessing gay and lesbian books and information. In 1988, the Task Force on Gay Liberation released the “International thesaurus of gay and lesbian index terms,” aimed at standardizing terms used for cataloging gay and lesbian-related library materials, and making Library of Congress Subject Headings friendlier for use by gay and lesbian archives.\n\nFour years later, in 1992, Ellen Greenblatt and Cal Gough published the first collection of essays about the information needs of gay and lesbian patrons, entitled \"Gay and Lesbian Library Service\". The work has since been revised as \"Serving LGBTIQ Library and Archives Users\" and remains influential.\n\nIn 1992, American Libraries published a photo of the Gay and Lesbian Task Force (now the GLBT Round Table) on the cover of its July/August issue, drawing both criticism and praise from the library world. Some commenters called the cover “in poor taste” and accused American Libraries of “glorifying homosexuality,” while others were supportive of the move. Christine Williams, who wrote an essay about the controversy surrounding the cover, concluded that in the mid-90s, the library world was “not an especially welcoming place to gays and lesbians.\"\n\nIn 2007, the Rainbow Project Task Force began within the ALA to promote the presence of LGBTQ juvenile and young adult literature in library collections. The group now maintains an annotated bibliography of LGBTQ titles for youth and teens, as well the yearly Rainbow List featuring the best of LGBTQ YA and children’s titles.\n\nIn 2010, the GLBT Round Table announced a new committee, the Over the Rainbow Committee. This committee annually compiles a bibliography of books that show the GLBT community in a favorable light and reflects the interests of adults. The bibliographies provide guidance to libraries in the selection of positive GLBT materials.\n\nAfter the passage of equal marriage in the State of New York in 2011, the Research Library at the Buffalo History Museum in Buffalo, N.Y. became the first known library in the United States to collect wedding memorabilia from legally-wed same-sex couples.\n\nIn their 2006 study of LGBTQ book circulation in an academic library, Stephanie Mathson and Jeffery Hancks found that LGBTQ titles were 20% more likely to circulate via a self-checkout machine than a traditional circulation desk staffed by a person. However, their sample size was small, so study results may be inconclusive.\n\nProviding unbiased service to all patrons is one of the central tenets of the Code of Ethics of the American Library Association. Articles dating back to Richard Ashby’s 1987 piece entitled ‘Library Services to Lesbian and Gay People’ have argued that this commitment to neutrality should provide the foundation for complete library service for all people, regardless of sexual orientation or gender presentation. Ashby argues that libraries, especially in their role as providers of literature for pleasure reading, can support LGBTQ individuals overcome a sense of isolation within the larger community. He emphasizes the importance of staff education to provide all LGBTQ individuals a safe space within the library, including:\n\n\nEchoing many of Ashby’s assertions in her 2007 paper entitled “Can Scottish public library services claim they are socially inclusive of all minority groups when lesbian fiction is still so inaccessible?”, Jaqueline Goldthorp outlines some of the challenges that lesbians face when trying to find lesbian fiction in Scottish libraries. She ties her study of lesbian literature to the importance of reading fiction on the psychological well-being of women, arguing that women often turn to fiction reading for self-affirmation and identity building. In addition, lesbian fiction titles can be priced up to 30% higher than non-lesbian titles, meaning that, for many low-income or working class lesbians, libraries are the only means of access for these titles Goldthorp surveyed 26 Scottish libraries and found that, in 2007, the majority had less than ten books labelled as “lesbian fiction,” and almost no recent award-winning titles. She suggests diversity training and education about methods and resources for providing service to lesbians for library staff as a way of promoting greater inclusion.\n\nMehra and Braquet’s 2007 article “Library and Information Science Professionals as Community Action Researchers in an Academic Setting” expands further upon the central role of librarians in promoting LGBTQ acceptance, noting that the profession is “uniquely situated to provide access to LGBT literature and information.”\n\nIn a 2005 article in the journal \"Progressive Librarian\", Jennifer Downey argued that even award-winning books by or about LGBTQ individuals fail to make it into library collections. She cites internal censorship as one potential cause, as well as the assumption that library patrons who want LGBTQ titles will simply request them from other libraries via inter-library loan. In addition, she found that many librarians were unfamiliar with LGBTQ titles. To increase familiarity, she recommends reading LGBTQ book review sources and bringing others, including community members into the process, suggestions which she draws from Loverich and Degnan’s 1999 article \"Out of the Shelves.\"\n\nA 2012 \"Publisher’s Weekly\" article cites the growing diversity of small presses that publish LGBTQ titles, but a decline in the traditional romance and erotica genres. The article also discusses the mainstreaming of LGBT literature, though emphasizes that even with wider acceptance of LGBTQ identities, the need for LGBTQ stories has not disappeared and that independent publishers are still the largest producers of LGBTQ literature. In his \"Rainbow Family Collections\", Jamie Naidoo also discusses challenges facing small specialized publishers of LGBTQ children's books and includes interviews with select publishing houses.\n\n\nBefore the 1960s, the term \"homosexuality\" was the basic search heading for most libraries that adopted the Library of Congress Subject Headings. According to LGBT librarian Steve Wolf, \"homosexuality\" was classified under \"sexual deviations\" until 1972, when it was moved to \"sexual life\". Since then, individuals who identify as LGBTQ have made major strides in reforming the subject headings that many libraries use. The Library of Congress added \"Transgender people\" and \"Transgenderism\" as main subject headings in 2007. Creating new and accurate headings for the LGBTQ community makes it easier for LGBTQ people to find information that is pertinent to their needs. Broadening these official vocabularies to affirm language and identities within the LGBTQ community creates broader acceptance for diverse gender and sexual identities.\n\nRecent literature has approached the issue of library classification from a queer theory perspective. In her 2013 article \"Queering the Catalog: Queer Theory and the Politics of Correction,\" librarian Emily Drabinski defines the relationship between LGBTQ identity and the library as a historically contingent one. For Drabinski, \"there can be no “correct” categorical or linguistic structures, only those that discursively emerge and circulate in a particular context.\" Drabinski says that a queer approach to cataloging includes reference librarians and users, who can engage in dialogue about underlying biases and help dismantle oppressive language. In a 2014 article, Emily Drabinski, Amber Billey and K.R. Roberto criticized RDA Rule 9.7, which forces catalogers to assign a gender when creating authority records, leaving out non-binary and gender-fluid identities. Marika Cifor uses queer theory to argue that hatred should be used as an organizing principle in LGBT archives. She writes that \"examining the arrangement and description\nof hate mail and messages, archival collecting around hate crimes, and documenting and describing queer and trans self-hatred demonstrates that hatred is a useful lens for examining and deconstructing normative power and its affective circulations and structures.\"\n\nAlexander Parks and others have identified libraries as potentially important safe places for LGBTQ youth and teens, especially in the face of bullying. He suggests the inclusion of LGBTQ titles in library displays or book talks to promote greater visibility. However, according to a 2005 study by Ann Curry, though many LGBTQ teens have the very similar concerns to their adult counterparts, librarians often do not answer their questions related to LGBTQ topics in a sensitive or welcoming manner. Studies by Carmichael and Greenblatt have emphasized that the library is an important place for teens who are coming out to find information because of the potential anonymity it provides. In his examination of public libraries in areas with large concentrations of same-sex families, Naidoo finds that many children's librarians are unaware of the LGBTQ families in their community and provide a mixed-bag of services, collections, and programs.\n\nAccording to the Young Adult Library Services Association's information for being welcoming and inclusionary of trans teens at library programs offering a time for students to give their preferred names or pronouns when starting a program gives them the opportunity to let staff and fellow patrons know how they would prefer to be addressed. \n\nLGBTQ individuals were some of the early adopters of the internet, and are still represented in high percentages across social media. In addition, 55% of LGBTQ individuals who responded to a 2009 survey said that they read blogs, compared to 38% of heterosexual respondents. The internet can often be influential to young people seeking information about health, coming out, or to find community, but can also put teens at risk of cyberbullying or harassment. Some libraries and schools, notably the school district in Camdenton, Mo, have been ordered to remove internet filtering software that blocked access to LGBTQ friendly websites that teens often turn to for support.\n\n Possibly the first study to provide a comprehensive overview of the information needs of non-heterosexual people, Creelman and Harris’ article focused on lesbians' information needs at specific points in their lives. They used a sense-making model which considered lesbians' information needs within a particular context. Their data came from a series of 50 interviews with lesbian women who were part of a lesbian group in Toronto, Canada, and used the snowball sampling approach to recruit additional participants. Eighty-four percent of interviewees said that they were aware of the library as a source of information related to lesbian identities, compared to 62% who were aware of gay bars and 58% aware of gay and lesbian organizations. However, the authors found many respondents were frustrated with the negative or male-centric literature that made up the bulk of information available in libraries; libraries needed to ensure that information was readily available, current and positive to best serve lesbian populations.\n\n Alisa Whitt’s 1993 study also focused on the information needs of lesbians and what lesbians expected from the library during different life stages. Whitt collected data by sending out a survey via a lesbian newsletter that circulated in North Carolina, which drew 141 respondents.\n\nIn the first user study specifically addressed towards gay males, Joyce and Schrader studied perceptions of the library system in Edmonton, Canada. Using an anonymous questionnaire distributed to gay community organizations, the authors collected data on 21 questions related to three aspects of information seeking: personal information, information needs related to coming out and ongoing information needs. The survey had 47 respondents who had a generally high level of education.\n\nNorman’s 1999 study provides quantitative analysis of survey responses from 44 self-identified lesbian, gay and bisexual individuals using the Brighton and Hove (UK) public libraries. The survey was aimed at identifying five aspects of the libraries’ LGB users, including demographics, the effect of centralizing a collection, whether LGB individuals use bibliographies to find reading as well as reasons for using and perceptions of library service. Results of the survey were analyzed using SPSS.\n\nResults indicated that fiction or other materials for entertainment were the most popular materials from the library, and that more than half used bibliographies to locate new reading materials. Many respondents cited the high prices of gay or lesbian books as one of the reasons for heavy use of the library. Though some respondents felt that the balance of lesbian to gay titles was skewed in favor of lesbian titles, the overall perception of Hove and Brighton’s services to LGB patrons was excellent or good.\n\nAs an offshoot of her dissertation research, Rothbauer interviewed 17 self-identified lesbian, bisexual and queer women between the ages of 18 and 23 about their discretionary reading habits. To analyze the data, she used open-coding techniques for textual analysis, and also relied on some participant writing and journals.\n\nRothbauer’s findings indicate that fiction reading is an aspirational activity for young lesbian, bisexual and queer woman; many participants hoped that fiction would show the “possibilities of claiming a queer identity” and were frustrated by works that contained an overly negative or homophobic view of lesbian life. Rothbauer identified four trends in her participants reading choices:\n\n\nInterviewees also reported feeling a greater connection to community through reading, whether it was through joining fan communities of favorite authors, or discussing and sharing books with others.\nThe public library was one of the most important points of access for interviewees, along with the internet and bookstores. Interviewees often relied heavily on online library catalogs as safe, anonymous searches to explore lesbian fiction. Participants often did not find what they were looking for in online catalogs, but were not surprised by the lack of materials. Rothbauer suggests making materials more visible, and also improving the scope and currency of library holdings to reach these users.\n\nIn an effort to rectify the lack of research related to the information needs of transgender individuals, Beiriger and Jackson’s article surveyed the transgender population in the Transgender/Identity Resource Center (TiRC) in Portland, Oregon. Using a survey tool adapted from the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender Wellness Project of Ottawa-Carleton, Canada, the authors distributed the survey through TiRC staff and counselors, as well as online through listserves and websites.\n\nAnalysis of the 99 responses to the survey show that the library is one of the last places that transgender people turn for information due to lack up to date health information, or an unwelcoming environment. Library collections meant to support the needs of transgender individuals were generally less comprehensive than those serving their gay and lesbian counterparts. The authors found that librarians should do more outreach to transgender communities to communicate a message of welcome, and that the internet could be a potentially powerful tool for outreach to these underrepresented populations.\n\nThe United States National Park Service officially unveiled a study of the history of the LGBTQ community on National Coming Out Day, Tuesday, October 11, during the second week of LGBT History Month. \nThe library and preservation communities hope this study \"will assist in the protection of various LGBTQ historic sites across the country.\" \n\nFounded in 1970, the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender Round Table (GLBTRT) is a subdivision of the American Library Association . Its goals are both to support library professionals who identify as LGBTQ as well as promote access to LGBTQ materials for library users. In addition, GLBTRT seeks to create new classification schemes for LGBTQ books that do not stigmatize these identities, and promote access under the ALA’s Code of Ethics and Library Bill of Rights. The GLBTRT also administers the yearly Stonewall Book Awards for juvenile, young adult, and adult LGBTQ fiction.\n\nThe Lesbian and Gay Archives Roundtable (LAGAR) is a group within the Society of American Archivists which advocates for the preservation of materials related to LGBT history within the archival profession.\n\nThe International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) LGBTQ Users SIG is charged to address the gap in professional knowledge of LGBTQ users' needs by offering opportunities to engage in discussions about this often invisible user group. This SIG considers topics including professional attitudes, outreach, privacy, programming, and effective practice in acquiring and collecting materials of importance to LGBTQ people and allies and encourages thoughtful consideration of issues of sexuality and gender identity.\n\nThe Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgendered Health Science Librarians Special Interest Group (SIG) is a unit of the Medical Library Association. Its goals are to identify, collect and disseminate gay/lesbian/bisexual health care information within the Medical Library Association in order to enhance the quality and quantity of information available to colleagues within the association and within members' institutions in order to support the physical and psychological health care concerns of medical library clients.\n\nFormerly the Gay and Lesbian Interests/Issues Round Table (GLIRT), the LGBT SIG is part of the Art Libraries Society of North America. They focus on the professional and cultural aspects of the LGBTQ Community through discussion and the informal exchange of information in yearly meetings during the ARLIS/NA Conference.\n\nStarting in 2015, the American Library Association marked June to be GLBT Book Month™, a nationwide celebration of the authors and writings that reflect the lives and experiences of the gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender community. \nOriginally established in the early 1990s by The Publishing Triangle as National Lesbian and Gay Book Month, this occasion is an opportunity for book lovers and libraries with the very best in GLBT literature. \nGLBT Book Month™ is an initiative of the American Library Association, and is coordinated through its Office for Diversity, Literacy, and Outreach Services and the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender Round Table.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4106344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4106344", "title": "List of for-profit universities and colleges", "text": "List of for-profit universities and colleges\n\nThis is a list of for-profit institutions of higher education.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn India many educational trusts and institutions which have no accreditation give autonomous degrees for profit.\n\nIn Chile many universities are suspected of violating legislation that forbids profitmaking in such institutions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24517589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24517589", "title": "Luidia, Inc.", "text": "Luidia, Inc.\n\nLuidia, Inc. produces portable interactive whiteboard technology for classrooms and conference rooms. Its eBeam hardware and software products work with computers and digital projectors to use existing whiteboard or writing surface as interactive whiteboards.\n\nThe company’s eBeam products allow text, images and video to be projected onto display surfaces, where an interactive stylus or marker can be used to add notes, access menus, manipulate images and create diagrams and drawings.\n\nLuidia’s eBeam technology uses infrared and ultrasound receivers to track the location of a transmitter-equipped pen, called a stylus, or a standard dry-erase marker in a transmitter-equipped sleeve.\n\nLuidia’s eBeam technology was originally developed and patented by engineers at Electronics for Imaging Inc. (Nasdaq: EFII), a Foster City, California developer of digital print server technology. Luidia was spun off from EFI in July 2003 with venture funding from Globespan Capital Partners and Silicom Ventures.\n\nIn 2007, Luidia was selected by the Mexican government to install eBeam-enabled interactive boards in public seventh-grade classrooms in Mexico as part of the government’s Enciclomedia program.\n\nIn 2007 and 2008, Luidia was accredited by Deloitte LLP in the accounting firm’s Silicon Valley “Technology Fast 50” program, which accredits fast-growing companies in the San Francisco Bay area.\n\n"}
{"id": "34226089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34226089", "title": "Luis Gianneo", "text": "Luis Gianneo\n\nLuis Gianneo (1897–1968) was an Argentine composer, pianist and conductor. As music educator, he was the teacher of composers Ariel Ramirez, Juan Carlos Zorzi, Virtú Maragno, Pedro Ignacio Calderón and Rodolfo Arizaga, among others.\n\nTo commemorate the 50th anniversary of his death, the Asociación Civil Cultural Centro Histórico Teatro Colón will host two concerts in the Salón Dorado of the Teatro Colón. The Cuarteto Gianneo will play both concerts, one on 4 August 2018 and another on 25 August 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "7082420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7082420", "title": "Mathland", "text": "Mathland\n\nMathLand was one of several elementary mathematics curricula that were designed around the 1989 NCTM standards. It was developed and published by Creative Publications and was initially adopted by the U.S. state of California and schools run by the US Department of Defense by the mid 1990s. Unlike curricula such as Investigations in Numbers, Data, and Space, by 2007 Mathland was no longer offered by the publisher, and has since been dropped by many early adopters. Its demise may have been, at least in part, a result of intense scrutiny by critics (see below).\n\nMathland was among the math curricula rated as \"promising\" by an Education Department panel, although subsequently 200 mathematicians and scientists, including four Nobel Prize recipients and two winners of the Fields Medal, published a letter in the Washington Post deploring the findings of that panel. MathLand was adopted in many California school districts as its material most closely fit the legal mandate of the 1992 California Framework. That framework has since been discredited and abandoned as misguided and replaced by a newer standard based on traditional mathematics. It bears noting that the process by which the framework was replaced itself came under serious scrutiny.\n\nMathland focuses on \"attention to conceptual understanding, communication, reasoning and problem solving.\" Children meet in small groups and invent their own ways to add, subtract, multiply and divide, which spares young learners from \"teacher-imposed rules.\" In the spirit of not chaining instruction to fixed content, MathLand does away with textbooks.\nA textbook as well as other practice books were available to reinforce concepts taught in the lesson.\n\nMathLand does not teach standard arithmetic algorithms, including carrying and borrowing. Such methods familiar to adults are absent from the curriculum, and so would need to be supplemented if desired. The standard method for multi-digit multiplication is not presented until 6th grade, and then only as an example of how it is error-prone. Instead a Russian peasants' algorithm for calculating 13 x 18 = 234 is favored. By cutting and pasting various strips of paper, it can be solved by simply using 3 divisions, 3 multiplications, a cancellation, and an addition of three numbers.\n\nSixth graders are asked to solve following problem:\n\n\"I just checked out a library book that is 1,344 pages long! The book is due in 3 weeks. How many pages will I need to read a day to finish the book in time?\"\n\nLong division is not used to divide 1,344 by 21. Instead, the curriculum guide explains that \"division in MathLand is not a separate operation to master, but rather a combination of successive approximations, multiplication, adding up and subtracting back, all held together with the students' own number sense.\"\n\nDebra J. Saunders of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" calls Mathland a math curriculum that prefers not to give lessons with \"predetermined numerical results.\" Kings County fourth-grade teacher Doug Swords says that 14 out of 18 teachers use MathLand only as a supplement. When asked if MathLand was helpful in teaching kids to multiply, he responded \"No, quite frankly\".\n\nIn a letter published in \"Stars and Stripes\" concerning the education of children by the Department of Defense, Denise McArthur wrote that \"according to Dr. Wu, mathematics professor at U.C. Berkeley, the Interactive Math series is quite the worst math text I have ever come across\". Another mathematician wrote, in the Notices of the AMS, \"I respectfully urge the AMS leadership to withdraw its endorsement of the NCTM Standards. The Standards have paved the way for elementary pedagogies such as MathLand, which fail to develop the standard multiplication algorithm for elementary students\". And another, \"...the proposed MathLand materials, address neither our children's lack of basic skills nor their poor performance on tests ... it wholeheartedly embraces the philosophy of the \"reform\" movement ... a movement that is being seriously questioned by the mathematical and educational community ... it would be foolish to adopt something with such obvious inadequacies.\"\n\nMathland had fallen out of favor by the mid-2000s and was no longer offered by Creative Publications as of 2007.\n"}
{"id": "21073593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21073593", "title": "Ministry of Education (Venezuela)", "text": "Ministry of Education (Venezuela)\n\nThe Venezuelan Ministry of Education is the federal-level organ responsible for organising the education system of Venezuela. In 2001 it was the Ministry of Education, Sport and Culture, with responsibility for Culture and Sport being assigned to separate ministries on 14 February 2005 and 6 January 2007.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25691729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25691729", "title": "Mittlere Reife", "text": "Mittlere Reife\n\nThe Mittlere Reife (, \"Middle Maturity\") is a school leaving certificate in Germany that is usually awarded after ten years of schooling. It is roughly comparable with the British GCSE.\n\nThe official name varies between the federal states, such as Realschulabschluss, Wirtschaftsschulabschluss, Qualifizierter Sekundarabschluss I, Sekundarabschluss I – Realschulabschluss and Mittlerer Schulabschluss. The \"Mittlere Reife\" can be awarded to students who attend a number of different schools, including the Hauptschule, the Realschule, the Werkrealschule, the Berufsfachschule, the Wirtschaftschule, and the Gesamtschule.\n\nStudents awarded the \"Mittlere Reife\" in most cases will not be allowed to progress directly into a German university, but must attend another school that awards the Abitur such as the Aufbaugymnasium or the Abendgymnasium or an equivalent type of school. Once students earn an Abitur, they may go on to university.\n\nNon-German graduation certificates that compare to the \"Mittlere Reife\" such as the American high school diploma generally do not qualify the bearer for attending a German university. However those holding a high school diploma will be able to study at a German university nevertheless if they did well on the SAT or ACT.\n"}
{"id": "4840055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4840055", "title": "Moldovan schools in Transnistria", "text": "Moldovan schools in Transnistria\n\nThe Moldovan schools in Transnistria became an issue of contention in 2004 in the context of the disputed status of Transnistria, a breakaway region of Moldova since 1990/1992.\n\nMoldovan schools were first established in Transnistria after the 1924 formation of the Moldovan Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic, which was part of the Soviet Republic of Ukraine. In 1940 the former Moldovan Autonomous Republic was split, 8 districts were included in the Soviet Socialist Republic of Ukraine and 6 districts were joined with part of Basarabia in the Soviet Socialist Republic of Moldavia. In the Ukrainian part of the former Moldavian autonomy Moldovan schools were transformed into Russian-language schools, but in the 6 districts that remained part of the Soviet Socialist Republic of Moldova a Moldovan-language network of schools was kept.\n\nThe Moldovan 1989 language law, that introduced the Latin script as the official script of the Republic of Moldova, was boycotted by the Transnistrian authorities, and all Moldovan schools in Transnistria were ordered to keep the Cyrillic script. After the War of Transnistria ended in mid-1992, the local schools became regulated by the government of Transnistria. The schools that chose to use the Latin script back in 1989 came under pressure of the authorities and most were forced to return to the Cyrillic script. Only six Romanian language schools in Transnistria were allowed to keep the Latin script.\n\nAttempts to expand the number of schools which are using Latin script are met with heavy-handed repression. In 1996, the director of the only Moldovan school in Slobozia, who supported the wish of the parents to conduct education in Latin alphabet was fired and forced to leave the region. In 1999 a lecturer of Moldovan language of the Bender Pedagogical College has been dismissed for promoting the Latin script in the institution. The dismissal has been preceded by threats on the phone and an aggression in the building where she lived.\n\nIn September 1996, the Grigoriopol administration used Cossacks and police to stop the activity of Moldovan School. On 2 October 1996 three teachers were arrested and taken to Tiraspol. On 7 October 1996, as a result of a demarche by the President of the Republic of Moldova and the OSCE Mission, the teachers were released.\n\nAnother attempt to teach Romanian clandestinely in Grigoriopol, in a ‘PMR state-funded school’, failed in 2002. Teaching staff and parents were blatantly vilified in the local press as ‘enemies of the State’. One by one they were invited to ‘reconsider’, threatened with loss of employment and the corresponding entitlement to housing. Children (and teachers) were forced to write explanations as to why they used the Latin script and local officials routinely visited classes to check whether tuition was being ‘properly’ conducted. The parent-teacher association was abolished and its head, Mihai Speian, was arrested. The Moldovan school in Grigoriopol was forced to move in Doroțcaia, a village controlled by Chișinău, and children commute 10–15 km daily to attend the school.\n\nIn the summer of 2004, the Transnistrian authorities closed four of the six schools in the region that taught Moldovan language using the Latin script, known as Romanian. Some of the 3,400 enrolled children were affected by this measure and the teachers and parents who opposed the closures were temporarily arrested for up to six hours. During the crisis, the Moldovan government decided to create a blockade that would isolate the disputed region from the rest of the world. The blockade was ineffective because of a lack of cooperation from Ukraine, led at the time by Leonid Kuchma. Transnistria retaliated with a series of actions meant to destabilize the economic situation in Moldova, in particular, by cutting the power supply from the power plants that were built in Transnistria in Soviet times. As a result, this crisis generated power outages in parts of Moldova.\n\nA leading figure in the conflict was Elena Vasilievna Bomeshko, the Minister of Education for Transnistria. According to her, and official Transnistrian policy, the language is referred to as \"Romanian\" when it is taught in Latin script and referred to as \"Moldovan\" when Cyrillic script is used. Transnistria rejects accusations of anti-Romanian bias and defends its preference of Cyrillic for Moldovan as a way to maintain the original language, pointing to the fact as far back as the Middle Ages, Moldovan Bibles were always written in Cyrillic. While the Romanian language used the Cyrillic alphabet for centuries, it is no longer used in Romania. Cyrillic script is still used in some parts of Moldova, but only one newspaper (state-owned by Transnistrian authorities) prints a few hundred copies in Cyrillic.\n\nThe closed Romanian schools were reopened, after registering as private institutions with the Transnistrian authorities. Pressure from the European Union (a travel ban was introduced to 10 Transnistrian education officials) may have sped up the process., but they still have the status of \"private schools\" and consequently do not receive funding from the Transnistrian government.\n\nMany teachers and parents of students studying at Moldovan schools with Cyrillic script had contacted the Moldovan Helsinki Committee for Human Rights asking support to turn education in Romanian (Latin script), as the studies based on the Cyrillic script and Soviet curricula don't have any perspective and the children are unable to pursue higher studies anywhere. The OSCE High Commissioner on National Minorities has condemned the actions of Transnistrian authorities as a \"linguistic cleansing\".\n\nAn OSCE report from June 2005 states: “If they [Moldovan parents in Transnistria] enroll their children in one of this schools that offer a Moldovan curriculum using a Latin script, they risk being threatened by the regional security service, and seeing their jobs put in jeopardy. Sending their children in one of the 33 Transdniestrian schools they teach in their native language in Cyrillic is, however, hardly an appealing alternative, as the schools follow an out-dated curriculum and use textbooks from the Soviet period”. This is the reason why many Moldovans from Transnistria send their children in harassment-free Russian language schools.\n\nTransnistrian authorities don't recognize the diplomas issued by Moldovan schools using Latin script, making impossible for graduates of those schools to study on Transnistrian higher educational institutions.\n\nIn November 2006 the European Court of Human Rights accepted to examine the claims submitted by three Moldovan schools in Transnistria (from Tighina, Rîbnița and Grigoriopol) regarding the violation of their right to education and right to work in conditions of non-discrimination. The three schools concerned regard Russia and Moldova as responsible for violation of their rights. In June 2009, the Court conducted hearings on three similar cases: Caldare and 42 Others v. Moldova and Russia (no. 8252/05), Catan and 27 Others v. Moldova and Russia (no. 43370/04), Cervaschi and 98 Others v. Moldova and Russia (no. 18454/06). In 2010, the Court has decided the case to be partly admissible In 2012, the Court decided that the right to education of the applicants was violated by Russia, but not violated by Moldova.\n\nIn November 2006, Louis O'Neill, head of OSCE mission to Moldova, has urged local authorities in the Transnistrian city of Rîbnița to return a confiscated building to the Moldovan Latin-script school located in the city. The building was built by the Government from Chișinău and was almost finished in 2004, when Transnistrian police took it by force, during the school crisis.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41146590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41146590", "title": "Openowledge", "text": "Openowledge\n\nOpenowledge (Korean:오픈놀리지) is an educational and nonprofit organization managed by students of CheongShim International Academy. The project was launched on January 2013 by the founder Jin-Woo Yu. The stated mission is to \"allow students in South Korea to easily learn and study the lectures on their website.\n\nThe courses on the site includes videos translated from Khan Academy as well as those originally created by students. The subjects include: Calculus, Western Philosophy, Problems in Economics, and neuroscience. The total number of views is estimated to be about 26,300.\n\nOne of the founders, Jin-Woo Yu, was inspired by a news article which introduced Khan Academy. He stated that the concept of Openowledge was created from a desire to create a translated and better-organized site. Another member stated that the concept of Korean subtitles arose from her own experience with Khan Academy. In 2012, Jin-Woo Yu and Myung-Gun Seo created the organization Khan Academy Korea. Khan Academy Korea had a project to translate Khan Academy videos. The project was extended into the current Openowledge project.\n\nThe first rough form of the organization began on the beginning of 2013 with founder Yu Jin-Woo and two others. At least one advertisement appeared on November 22, 2013. On January 2013,'Openowledge' was first created as a high school club. The founders only consisted of second-year high school students in CheongShim International Academy. The current site began operating on May 2013 as a beta version for about a month. Openowledge started operating as an actual service on July 16, 2013.\n\nOpenowledge has since registered as an official organization. It is now classified as an educational, nonprofit organization. It is also classified as an official volunteering organization.\n\nOpenowledge is maintained by eight CheongShim International Academy students.\nOpenowledge is divided into three parts: The 'share-knowledge' project, the 'foreign language content translation project' and the 'CheongShim Opencourseware (OCW).'\n\nThe share-knowledge project consists of videos created by CheongShim International Academy high-school students. The subjects include: Calculus, Western Philosophy, Problems in Economics, and neuroscience. The lecturers include a participant in the International Philosophy Olympiad and other students considered 'great lecturers.' The contents are shown for free on the website. As of August 2013, 32 original videos are available on the website.\n\nThe foreign language content translation project consists of videos translated from Khan Academy and MIT+K12. Translators ranges from elementary school students to college students and employed adults. As of November 2013, there are about 40 translators in total. Members estimate that the translation time for one video is about two hours. There are special translation teams such as 'ACG Translation Team' which translates the videos. Currently, a translation team consists of two or three members. The videos are shown free on the website. As of August 2013, there were about 35 translated lectures on the website.\n\nThe CheongShim Opencourseware consists of original lectures produced by CheongShim International Academy teachers. The videos are uploaded for free on the website and on YouTube.\n\nThe founder Yu, Jin-Woo have stated that he hopes to have a total of 500 lecturers and 800 lectures by 2015 and have Openowledge named as the 'most diverse knowledge-sharing platform in the Republic of Korea.'\n"}
{"id": "2701694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2701694", "title": "Organised Independents", "text": "Organised Independents\n\nThe Organised Independents (often abbreviated to OIs) are a grouping within the National Union of Students of the United Kingdom. \n\nThe group is made up of candidates for National Executive Committee posts, all standing on an \"independent\" label, and their supporters. As such, the OIs have been defined as an interest group as opposed to a faction; this originates from the idea that they are apolitical or moderate, either simply as a group of sabbatical officers seeking to support one another, or as proponents of a membership-focused national ideology. Commentator Rachel Brooks writes that the OIs also have a \"shared concern to minimise the influence of 'the left',\" which she defines as centring around the factions AWL, Liberation Left, and NCAFC.\n\nIn 2017, after widespread discontentment with NUS under the leadership of Malia Bouattia, a slate of OI-backed candidates won five of the six full-time officer positions elected at NUS National Conference. This included the role of President in which Shakira Martin, the union's vice-president for further education, defeated Bouattia, receiving 56% of the vote.\n\nWhile individual OIs have a broad range of political views and positions, from soft left to one-nation conservatism, the group as a whole holds a membership-focused ideology. The group advocates the NUS being more directly representative of its member SUs, often invoking the motto that 'they work for us'.\n\nAs a result, OI policy positions are often more socially left-wing than factions such as the Labour Students or Union of Jewish Students, but tend to avoid non-education policy areas prioritised by NCAFC or Liberation Left such as economic or foreign policy. An exception to this was on Brexit, which prominent OIs took a strong stance against, and the group led NUS' campaign for a people's vote.\n\nAs a result of the group's broad definition, a lot of controversy has raged over whether such a faction exists. Many NUS commentators are in agreement that such an organised grouping is clearly in existence. Various names were in use, including the \"Webberites\" (after Simon Webber, an early leading figure), the \"Owainites\" (after Owain James, NUS President 2000-2002), the \"Independent Faction\" before the term \"Organised Independents\" took hold. The phrase \"independent student officers\" was also prominent on many manifestos. Increasingly members of the grouping no longer dispute their existence and the label. However, there is still much dispute over whether or not individual independents are aligned to the OIs or not. \n\nThe OIs emerged as a group of independent candidates and NEC members who gave support to the Labour Students-dominated NUS leadership of the 1990s. Several admitted to being \"members of the Labour Party but not Labour Students,\" a distinction that some found difficult to understand. Further confusion reigned as some OIs appeared to be members of Labour Students at the ordinary level. The group became increasingly prominent in 2000 when Labour Students declined to put up a candidate to defend the Presidency of the NUS, a position which they had previously held for eighteen years, but instead backed Owain James as an independent, who won the post and held it for the two years allowed under the constitution. Former NUS LGB officer Carli Harper-Pennan wrote that at this time, the OIs were \"aligned with Labour Students\", \"organised with them\", and had \"the same agenda\".\n\nThe 2002 NUS elections saw the OIs and Labour Students fall out and run opposing candidates. In general the OIs defeated the Labour Students in all elections bar the Presidency, which was won by Mandy Telford. Subsequently, the OIs and Labour Students fluctuated between co-operation at times, but fierce opposition at others. It was in this 2004-6 period that the later-Mayor of Islington Kat Fletcher of CFE/AWL was elected President; Fletcher was the first since 1981 to be elected from a political slate clearly to the left of either Labour Students or the OIs. In recent years there has therefore been renewed confusion over the exact membership of the OIs, stemming from a series of notable factional shifts within the NUS by several individuals and the emergence of more than one group of independents who organise together.\n\nIn 2007, though, the position was clear, and the independents who described themselves within NUS formally as OIs were Gemma Tumelty (National President), Stephen Brown (National Secretary), Ama Uzowuru (Vice-President Welfare), Adam McNicholas (Block of 12). Tumelty and Brown both left their respective posts in June 2008. \n\nThe Organised Independents continued to be popular within the national movement. 2008 saw the appearance of the 'Dirty Games' deal, in which the OIs were reported to have been \"handed the vice-president higher education position for Aaron Porter\", in exchange for backing the later Labour MP Wes Streeting for President. In the 2008 elections, Porter was elected, while Ama Uzowuru was re-elected as Vice-President (Welfare), and Ben Whittaker and Elizabeth Sommerville were elected onto the Block of 12. The Organised Independents were also in power in NUS Scotland, with Gurjit Singh holding Presidency in 2008. He was defeated in the following presidential election by Labour party member Liam Burns.\n\nIn 2009, Whittaker was elected as Vice President Welfare and Liz Williams (Liverpool Guild of Students) and Alice Bouquet (University of West England SU) were elected onto Block of 15 at National Conference. Katie Dalton was elected President of NUS Wales.\n\nIn 2010, Porter was elected as the 54th President of the National Union of Students. Whittaker was re-elected Vice President (Welfare). Peter Mercer and Ryan Wain were elected onto Block of 15. Katie Dalton was also re-elected President of NUS Wales.\n\nIn 2011, Peter Mercer was elected Vice-President Welfare following Ben Whittaker's two terms. Matthew East, two-term Anglia Ruskin Students' Union President, was elected onto the Block of 15. George-Konstantinos Charonis was elected as the NUS Postgraduate Taught Representative at the Postgraduate Conference.\n\nThe OIs were temporarily disbanded after this, until the 2017 National Conference. In 2013, however, Raechel Mattey and Colum McGuire were elected as VP Union Development and VP Welfare, respectively; they continued to campaign informally around moderate candidates and issues. Both were re-elected to serve a second term in 2014. Mattey grew unpopular, however; at the 2013 Union Development zone conference, she had refused to allow a NCAFC member of her zone committee to enter the accountability session, and gained a reputation for being unaccountable and afraid of challenge. \n\nIn 2015, following Mattey, Richard Brooks was elected Vice President (Union Development). Vonnie Sandlan and Fergal McFerran were also elected Presidents of NUS Scotland and NUS-USI, respectively. In January 2017, Al Jazeera broadcast footage purporting to show that Brooks was involved in attempts to block the election of (and, later, discredit and remove) controversial President Malia Bouattia over allegations of antisemitism. In response to Bouattia's election, students at Durham, Loughborough, Hull, Aberystwyth, Oxford, Cambridge, Manchester, Essex, York, King's College London, Nottingham, UWE, Leicester, Queen Mary University of London and Reading University had campaigned to disaffiliate from the NUS. Lincoln, Newcastle, Hull and Loughborough all disaffiliated.\n\nAfter this widespread discontentment with NUS' direction, the 2017 National Conference saw a slate of OI-backed candidates win five of the six full-time officer positions elected at NUS National Conference. In addition to this, several centrist motions passed, including democratic reforms designed to better engage students and students' unions, which were described as \"the most comprehensive and wide-ranging structural reforms in NUS history\". WonkHE policy commentator Nona Buckley-Irvine wrote that with the \"significant ideological shift from the hard left to more moderate candidates, sector bodies and universities will prepare themselves for a rethink in how to approach NUS going forward\".\n\nIn 2018, after a year of constructive engagement with policymakers, all returning candidates were re-elected except Izzy Lenga. Martin was re-elected with 51% of the vote in the first round of voting, along with deputy Amatey Doku, who received 68% after calling for nationwide student-led mobilisation to demand a 'people's vote' on the final Brexit deal.\n\nIn 2018, in response to the ongoing political instability around Brexit, the group launched FFS, a cross-party youth campaign for a people's vote. Key OI figures steered policy through the 2018 National Conference to ensure that NUS became one of the earliest organisations to declare support for the position.\n\nThe campaign subsequently organised an open letter undersigned by 120 student leaders, and numerous demonstrations, which attracted over 160,000 attendees.\n\n"}
{"id": "21986833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21986833", "title": "Osher Lifelong Learning Institutes", "text": "Osher Lifelong Learning Institutes\n\nOsher Lifelong Learning Institutes (OLLI) offer noncredit courses with no assignments or grades to “seasoned” adults over age 50. Since 2001 philanthropist Bernard Osher has made grants from his foundation to launch OLLI programs at 120 universities and colleges in all 50 states and the District of Columbia.\n\nBernard Osher, a native of Maine, managed the family hardware and plumbing supply business before heading to New York to work for Oppenheimer & Company. He moved to California and became a founding director of World Savings and a founder of its parent company Golden West Financial. He bought the San Francisco auction house Butterfield & Butterfield in 1970 and sold it in 1999 to eBay. World Savings merged with Wachovia Corporation in 2006, which was in turn acquired by Wells Fargo in 2008. In 1977 he established the Bernard Osher Foundation, headquartered in San Francisco, which contributes to higher education, the arts, and social services, with education receiving nearly 80 percent of its grants.\n\nOsher was impressed by the Fromm Institute for Lifelong Learning at the University of San Francisco, and approached the Senior Program at the University of Southern Maine (USM) with his interest in supporting noncredit programs for older adults. He awarded USM an endowment grant in 2001 to expand its program, which was renamed as the first Osher Lifelong Learning Institute. Ed Stolman, a friend of Osher’s who had retired to Sonoma County, California, approached Sonoma State University (SSU) to encourage development of an OLLI program. The Osher Foundation made a development grant to SSU which quickly attracted an audience of older student members. Encouraged by the success of these two programs, Osher decided to greatly expand his grant support for similar lifelong learning institutes.\n\nIn 2002 the Osher Foundation began making program development grants of $100,000 a year for up to three years to launch new OLLI programs. The initial focus was on California, which now has OLLI programs at seven University of California and 16 California State University campuses. In 2004 Osher established a National Resource Center at USM to distribute information about effective educational programs for older adults via a web site, a research journal, and an annual conference. In October 2014 the NRC was relocated to Northwestern University's downtown Chicago, Illinois campus.\n\nUnder current practices, if an OLLI program has 500 fee-paying members by the end of its fourth year, the university is eligible for a $1 million endowment grant from the Osher Foundation. When it reaches 1000 members, it is eligible for another $1 million endowment grant. As of 2015, the Osher Foundation was supporting 120 OLLI programs at universities and colleges in all 50 states and the District of Columbia.\n\nThe Bernard Osher Foundation’s executive director is Barbro Osher, Consul General for Sweden in San Francisco.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30292166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30292166", "title": "Oxford Schools", "text": "Oxford Schools\n\nOxford Schools (Arabic: مدارس اكسفورد) is an International English and National Arabic medium co-education private school. The school is situated in Amman, Jordan. It offers both British and American curriculum programs for its students.\n\nOfficial website: Oxford Schools\n"}
{"id": "55703151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55703151", "title": "Petronilla Deterville", "text": "Petronilla Deterville\n\nPetronilla Deterville, MBE (14 May, 1951-3 October 2010) was a St. Lucian musician and composer recognized for her work in founding youth music and theatrical groups. She was honored as a member of the Order of the British Empire for her contributions to the development and preservation of St. Lucia's folk music, as well as her efforts to utilize the arts to expand educational opportunities.\n\nMarie Petronilla Deterville was born on 14 May, 1951 in Anse La Raye, St. Lucia. After completing her primary education, earned a teaching certificate from the St. Lucia Teacher's College and went on to pursue certification as a music teacher from the Jamaica School of Music.\n\nIn 1981, Deterville founded the \"Cecilian Reys\", a musical group from her home town, which aimed to expand opportunities for youth in the area. The group, made up of children, learns and performs traditional St. Lucian folkmusic and musical theater. In 1992, she took the group to the Caribbean Festival of Arts (CARIFESTA), where they performed the folk musical, \"Tinday\". Determined to further her education, Deterville enrolled at the Catholic University of America, completing a bachelor's in music education in 1995 and her master's degree the following year. In 1996, she developed the Anse La Raye Youth Orchestra, which had twenty-five musicians composed of strings, winds and drums. \n\nDeterville had strong dedication to the arts and saw participation as a means of keeping children interested in school, as well as their communities. She worked with the Ministry of Education from 1989 to 2008 as a curriculum development specialist and participated in cross-cultural programs studying the benefits of incorporating ethnic music and folklore into educational programs. Deterville began an initiative in 2007 to involve at-risk youth in theater programs. Known as the Youth Studying Performing Arts and Culture (Youth SPAC) the initiative sponsored youth camps over the summer to introduce and involve students in the performing arts. Deterville and Kentilla Louis worked together to expand the program to produce productions year-round. The following year, she produced \"Tribute to Charles Cadet\" with the \"Cecilian Reys\" to honor the work of the St. Lucian tenor. In 2008, she became an education officer in the Ministry of Education, serving until her death. That same year, she was honored as a member of the Order of the British Empire for her contributions to music in St. Lucia.\n\nDeterville died on 3 October 2010. Upon Deterville's death, Gregory Piper took over her work with the Anse La Raye Youth Orchestra, completing her production of \"Sing de Chorus\". She was honored in 2016 with a special celebration held in honor of Nobel Laureate Week dedicated to her life. The \"Cecilian Reys\" performed \"Life in the Village\" a two-hour musical that Deterville had conceptualized. \n\n"}
{"id": "32646931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32646931", "title": "Rediker Software", "text": "Rediker Software\n\nRediker Software is a company that provides school administrative software to PK – 12 schools. Rediker Software employs about 100 people and is headquartered in Hampden, Massachusetts. Other supporting offices are located in India and Ecuador. The software is used by public and private schools in every US state and more than 115 countries.\n\nFounder and CEO Richard Rediker began the development of Administrator’s Plus, the company's student information system, over 35 years ago. As a chemistry teacher and class advisor in 1980, he developed an early program on the Commodore PET computer to automatically generate tardy letters. This program eventually became Administrator's Plus.\n\nIn 1981, the first license for Administrator's Plus was sold to St. Mary High School in Westfield, Massachusetts. The school still uses the software to this day.\n\nIn 1998, the company moved into their office located in the center of Hampden, Massachusetts.\n\nIn 2006, the offices were expanded, including larger training facilities and expanded technical support offices. This same year, Rediker Software introduced the School Office Suite.\n\nIn 2007, Administrator’s Plus became a SIF-certified application.\n\nIn 2009, Rediker Software introduced Admissions Plus Pro, including online forms and applications, to help private schools increase enrollment and improve recruitment.\n\nFor the years of 2008 - 2016, the company has been named by the Affiliated Chambers of Commerce of Greater Springfield to their \"Super 60\" list of fastest-growing privately held companies in Western Massachusetts.\n\nIn July 2012, Rediker Software rebranded with a new logo to reflect the company's move towards cloud-based solutions and also its commitment to the advancement of schools through educational technology solutions.\n\nOn June 3, 2013, Andrew Anderlonis, former Director of Business Development and Operations and son-in-law to CEO Richard Rediker, was appointed President of Rediker Software.\n\n\nRediker Cares Project is Rediker Software’s volunteer program that gives employees the ability to volunteer at local organizations and events during company time. The program empowers employees to work together to give back to the local community and to help those in need. As a result, Rediker employees have made significant contributions to local organizations including Open Pantry and Links to Libraries. The project also donates school supplies to schools in developing countries and runs food drives and fundraisers for local non-profits.\n\n"}
{"id": "32441528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32441528", "title": "Samuel Fisk Green", "text": "Samuel Fisk Green\n\nSamuel Fisk Green (1822–1884) was an American medical missionary. He graduated from the College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York city. He served with the American Ceylon Mission (ACM) in Jaffna, Sri Lanka during the period (1847–1873) when it was the British colony of Ceylon. During his tenure he founded the Sri Lanka's first medical hospital and school in what later became the Green Memorial Hospital in Manipay in the Jaffna peninsula. He translated and published over 4000 pages of medical literature from English to Tamil as part of his efforts to train doctors in their native language. He was personally responsible for training over 60 native doctors of whom majority had their instructions in Tamil.\n\nGreen was born in Worcester, Massachusetts, to William E. Green and Julia Plimpton as the eighth of 11 children. After his secondary schooling, he was attracted to religion. In 1841 he went to New York City and joined the Protestant Episcopal Board of Missions. During this period he became interested in the medical profession and joined as a medical student and graduating as a doctor in 1845. In 1846, he joined the American Mission and along with a team of missionaries was sent to Ceylon now Sri Lanka. His brother was Andrew Haswell Green, who was instrumental in completing New York City's Central park.\n\nGreen retired to Green Hills, Massachusetts in 1873 due to ill health. He died in 1884.\n\nAfter a four month trip from America, he moved to Ceylon via Madras Presidency in British India in 1847. He initially served at the ACM mission at the Batticotta Seminary. Although the locals were reluctant use his services, eventually with his capability he became well known for his medical skills. As he attracted a lot of patients and it distracted Batticotta seminaries primary task of education, he was moved to another ACM mission station in Manipay in 1848.\nAt Manipay, in addition to providing medical services to patients who came in search of him, he established the first medical school to teach western medicine to the Tamil people of Jaffna, thus opening, Sri Lanka's first medical hospital and teaching facility that became known as Green memorial hospital. Green Memorial Hospital was managed by the Jaffna Diocese of the Church of South India (JDCSI) the successor organization of ACM. It celebrated the 150th anniversary of the Green Memorial Hospital, and the ACM medical mission, in October 1998.\n\nInitially when Dr. Green appealed for assistance for the publication of some medical books in Tamil, the colonial government refused aid. But after a decade, the same government doubled its aid and also requested Dr. Green to superintend the preparation and printing of Sanitary and Medical action related literature in Cholera times. Dr. Green wanted to prepare the trained physicians to stay in their native villages to help the locals instead migrating to find work within the colonial administration. \nTo teach western medicine in Tamil, he had to coin technical terms in Tamil, translate western medical books into Tamil and write medical books in Tamil. This meant the development of medical and scientific Tamil as different from the established literary Tamil. There was also a need to write medical treatises in simple Tamil for the benefit of the common people – the layman.\n\nFollowing is a list of his Translations from English into Tamil and the year of publication.\n\n"}
{"id": "24642342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24642342", "title": "Sanford Levinson", "text": "Sanford Levinson\n\nSanford Victor Levinson (born June 17, 1941) is an American legal scholar, best known for his writings on constitutional law and as a professor at the University of Texas Law School. He is notable for his criticism of the United States Constitution as well as excessive presidential power and has been widely quoted on such topics as the Second Amendment, gay marriage, nominations to the Supreme Court, and other legal issues. He has called for a Second Constitutional Convention of the United States.\n\nSanford Levinson received a bachelor's degree from Duke University, a law degree from Stanford University, and a PhD degree from Harvard University.\nAt one point he was a member of the department of Politics at Princeton. Levinson taught law at Georgetown, Yale, Harvard, New York University, Boston University, Central European University in Budapest, Panthéon-Assas University, the Hebrew University in Jerusalem., Shalom Hartman Institute in Jerusalem London, Auckland and Melbourne.\nIn 2001, Levinson was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In 2010, he was given the Lifetime Achievement Award by the Law and Courts Section of the American Political Science Association. In 1980, he joined the University of Texas School of Law at Austin, Texas where he is also a professor of government. He holds the W. St. John Garwood and W. St. John Garwood, Jr. Centennial Chair in Law.\n\nLevinson is quoted often in publications about numerous topics involving law. Levinson has described himself as \"a card-carrying A.C.L.U. member who doesn't own a gun\" who has argued that the Second Amendment of the United States Constitution limits the government's authority to regulate private gun ownership. Levinson's opinions on Constitutional Law have been reported in the media including his opinions about Second Amendment cases. Levinson has been a panelist on programs sponsored by the Association of American Law Schools and has spoken on topics alongside prominent lawyers such as Kenneth W. Starr. Levinson has been identified as a \"prominent liberal law professor\" and been grouped with other professors including Laurence H. Tribe of Harvard and Akhil Reed Amar of Yale. Levinson's opinion has been cited during the nominating process for Supreme Court nominees.\n\nLevinson has been critical of Supreme Court justices who have stayed in office despite medical deterioration based on longevity; for example, Levinson criticized Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist for a \"degree of egoistic narcissism\" by declaring six weeks before his death of his intention to stay on. Levinson has called for term limits for Supreme Court justices along with a growing list of \"scholars across the ideological spectrum.\" He has published comments critical of life tenure for Supreme Court justices.\n\nLevinson is particularly noted for his \"seminal article\" in the \"Yale Law Journal\" entitled \"The Embarrassing Second Amendment\". He argued that the Second Amendment doesn't offer either gun rights or gun control advocates a refuge. He argued \"society must decide the issue of gun control on practical as well as on constitutional grounds ... the issue is to what extent does the Second Amendment permit the Government to do what it wants in controlling firearms, just as we have to establish the extent to which it can limit speech or break into your house without a warrant. Levinson has criticized liberal lawyers as treating \"the Second Amendment as the equivalent of an embarrassing relative whose mention brings a quick change of subject.\" He has argued that the Constitution protects some personal ownership of firearms but admits that \"courts are likely to rule that Congress can do almost anything short of an outright prohibition of owning guns.\" Levinson's article was cited in Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas' concurring opinion in \"Printz v. United States\".\n\nLevinson taught a course called \"Torture, Law and Lawyers\" at Harvard Law School in 2005. Levinson has written essays in \"The New York Times\". Levinson edited \"Torture: A Collection\" (2005). A reviewer commented: \"What's most striking about these essays is that despite their abstract and theoretical content, they generally do not contradict the depiction of actual interrogators described by Mackey and Miller. The wall between the liberal campus and a conservative, utilitarian-minded military breaks down because the questions are so serious that few of this book's contributors want to engage in polemics, and few -- to their credit -- ever seem completely comfortable with their own conclusions.\"\n\nLevinson has been a critic of the unitary executive and excessive presidential power. In the magazine \"Dissent\", he argued that \"constitutional dictators have become the American norm.\" Presidents \"have an incentive to declare emergencies\" and assume \"quasi-dictatorial powers,\" wrote Levinson. Levinson was highly critical of president George W. Bush who he regarded as possibly the \"absolutely worst president.\" Levinson notes that President Obama seems likely to repeat the pattern of expansive presidential power. He wrote an essay titled \"The Decider Can Become a Dictator\" in which he criticized a system which allows presidents to make dictatorial decisions of great consequence without providing ways to discipline those who display bad judgment. \nLevinson commented about a ban on gay marriage proposed by former President George W. Bush in legal terms as a Constitutional issue.\n\nLevinson has criticized the Constitution (invoking comparisons to Thomas Jefferson) for what he considers to be its numerous failings, including an inability to remove the President despite lack of confidence by lawmakers and the public, the President's veto power as being \"extraordinarily undemocratic\", the difficulty of enacting Constitutional amendments through Article 5, a lack of representation in the Senate for highly populated states such as California. He also criticizes the primary process in which important states which aren't considered \"battleground states\" are ignored by presidential candidates. He's often called for a Second Constitutional Convention: \"We ought to think about it almost literally every day, and then ask, 'Well, to what extent is government organized to realize the noble visions of the preamble?' That the preamble begins, 'We the people.' It's a notion of a people that can engage in self-determination.\" Levinson's book \"Our Undemocratic Constitution: Where the Constitution Goes Wrong (and How We the People Can Correct It)\" calls for \"wholesale revision of our nation's founding document.\"\n\nLevinson appeared on the Bill Moyers television program in 2007. Levinson's research interests include American Constitutional development, Constitutional design, law, religion, multiculturalism, society, and theories of Constitutional Interpretation. Levinson participates in a blog called Balkinization which focuses on constitutional, First Amendment, and other civil liberties issues as well as a blog called \"Our Undemocratic Constitution\". With Jeffrey K. Tulis, he is co-editor of the \"Johns Hopkins Series in Constitutional Thought\" and also of a new series, \"Constitutional Thinking\" at University Press of Kansas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17062067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17062067", "title": "Signe Hebbe", "text": "Signe Hebbe\n\nSigne Amanda Georgina Hebbe (30 July 1837 – 14 February, 1925) was a Swedish operatic soprano and instructor.\n\nSigne Hebbe was born in Värnamo to the journalist Vendela Hebbe and Clemens Hebbe.\n\nIn 1848, at the age of eleven, she was enrolled at the school of the Royal Swedish Opera. She was a student of Karolina Bock and studied music at the Lindblad piano school. In 1852-54, she was a student at the conservatory in Berlin.\n\nSigne Hebbe made her debut as an actress at the Royal Dramatic Theatre in 1855. She was not given good reviews in spoken drama, and therefore resumed her studies in singing.\n\nIn 1856, she was enrolled as a student at the Paris conservatory. She was the first student from Scandinavia to be given an award at the Paris conservatory. \nShe gave lessons in \"plastic\" (mimic) herself and, in 1860, came to act as the instructor of Sarah Bernhardt, when she replaced Bernhardt's ordinary teacher Élie during his absence.\n\nShe developed her ability as a singer by studies under Francesco Lamperti in Milan, and studied acting for Adelaide Ristori and Ernesto Rossi.\n\nSigne Hebbe was made her debut as an opera singer in Frankfurt. She was active in Lyon in 1861-62, and engaged at the Nationaltheater Mannheim.\n\nBetween 1864 and 1879, she toured Europe as an opera- and concert singer and performed in Stockholm, Karlsruhe, Copenhagen, Théâtre Lyrique in Paris, Warszawa, Geneva, Milano, Palermo, Helsingfors, and Oslo.\n\nShe was criticized for her acting, because she did not follow the accepted interpretation of roles. Interested in women's issues, Signe Hebbe preferred to give women's parts in opera's a more independent and strong interpretation rather than the traditional weak interpretations, innovations which exposed her to criticism for not adjusting to the opera traditions.\n\nSigne Hebbe was active as a voice trainer and singing instructor from 1871 to 1925. In 1877, she opened her own school. From 1883, she was active at the \"Dramatens elevskola\", in 1886-88 at the Royal Swedish Academy of Music, and in the years around 1900 on the Royal Dramatic Theatre.\n\nShe reportedly preferred her work at her own school. In her own school, she was an instructor in the technique in speech, singing, plastique (mimic) and role analysis. She introduced the technique of deep breathing to Sweden from Paris, where she had been given this training by Delsartes.\n\nShe had students from all Scandinavia, Europe and the USA. Two of her notable pupils were John Forsell and Carolina Östberg.\n\nShe died in Stockholm in 1925 at 87 years old. \n"}
{"id": "46555773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46555773", "title": "Thekraj Secondary School", "text": "Thekraj Secondary School\n\nThekraj Secondary School was established in 2017 BS (1960-1961 AD) by social leader Thekraj Pant. It is situated in Attariya Municipality Ward no.10 Beladevipur, Kailali, Nepal. The school has had good results in SLC examination. The school began as a pre-primary but now also extends to secondary school. This school is a community school runs under governmental aid.\n"}
{"id": "5966534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5966534", "title": "Triple accreditation", "text": "Triple accreditation\n\nTriple accreditation (or Triple Crown accreditation) is the combination of accreditations awarded to 89 business schools worldwide as of May 2018 (up from 74 in May 2016) by the three largest and most influential business school accreditation organizations:\n\n\nOf the 13,670 schools offering business degree programs worldwide, only 90 have triple accreditation as of August 2018.\n\nA major reason for the small number of triple-accredited institutions in the world is the requirement of the Association of MBAs that AMBA-accredited business schools should only admit MBA applicants with at least three years of full-time post-graduation work experience. Some analysts claim that most top US business schools cannot meet this criterion as they sometimes (though rarely) admit applicants with only a bachelor's degree and little or no work experience. They claim that it is why triple-crown accreditation is pursued primarily by European institutions. However, it is not the case when some (former) triple accredited institutes, City University of Hong Kong for example, only require applicants having \"relevant work experience is desirable (though not specifically required)\".\n\nEach of the three institutions assesses a business school according to different criteria and scope:\n\n\n\nThere are 87 triple-accredited schools based in 33 countries and territories as of March 2018:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOne reason for this is that a (small) number of top business schools choose not to allocated the work resource and incur the financial cost required for international accreditation and rely only on accreditation by their national accrediting body (usually the country's education ministry).\n\nAnother reason is that the top schools in some regions do not meet one or more of the detailed criteria of the accrediting institutions and choose not to amend their policy. Notable examples are some top US business schools: Harvard Business School, Wharton, Stanford GSB, Columbia Business School, Chicago Booth, Tuck School of Business, etc., which do not meet AMBA's mandatory three-year student-work-experience requirement for all MBA students.\n\nA third reason is that most of the 509 schools that have obtained AACSB accreditation in the US and Canada (either via the standard accreditation process or via the granting of accreditation based on their reputation as top schools) do not look outside of North America for further validation, such as through European or British accreditation.\n\n"}
{"id": "5057576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5057576", "title": "Typo Attack", "text": "Typo Attack\n\nTypo Attack is an educational game for the Atari 8-bit family written by David Buehler and published by the Atari Program Exchange in 1982. Buehler was seventeen when the game won the Atari Star Award for the best APX program of 1982. \"Typo Attack\" is designed to improve the user's typing skill.\n\nIn 1983, Buehler had two action games published by the Atari Program Exchange: \" Wyzle!\" and \"Impact\".\n\nThe game takes place on a single screen, divided up into multiple columns. At the bottom of each column is a letter or punctuation symbol and various enemies appear randomly at the top of the columns. Players must press the corresponding letter in a column in order to make the letter fire at the advancing enemies. If an enemy reaches the bottom of the screen they will remove part of the shield around the letter, and if it is eaten away completely the player will lose a life. Depending on the level, the letters assigned to each column will change at irregular intervals.\n\nIn 1984, Atari, Inc. moved \"Typo Attack\" into its official line as a cartridge (RX8057). A version was planned for the unreleased Atari CX-3000 Graduate, an add-on which turned the Atari 2600 into a home computer.\n\n"}
{"id": "5747496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5747496", "title": "UCAS Tariff", "text": "UCAS Tariff\n\nThe UCAS Tariff (formerly called UCAS Points System) is used to allocate points to post-16 qualifications. Universities and colleges may use it when making offers to applicants. A points total is achieved by converting qualifications such as A levels (and many others) into points, making it simpler for course providers to compare applicants. It is used as a means of giving students from the United Kingdom places at UK universities.\n\nCommon ways for UCAS points to be calculated are through the UCAS Tariff Calculator, official tariff tables, or through third-party software and websites.\n\nThe UCAS Tariff was first introduced in 2001. Since then, however, both the range of qualifications held by applicants, and the variety of progression routes into higher education have increased. Therefore a new Tariff was introduced. The new UCAS Tariff points are based on a different methodology. The change to new UCAS Tariff will not in itself change entry requirements for university or college courses. Universities and colleges are independent organisations and each year they decide how to set their entry requirements. Those universities and colleges that use UCAS Tariff points to express their entry requirements will simply set their requirements using the new number system.\n\nThe following qualifications can count towards the tariff:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFull Diploma or each of its components.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese are only counted if at grade 6 or above.\n\nThese are only counted if at grade 1 or above.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2276219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2276219", "title": "United Federation of Teachers", "text": "United Federation of Teachers\n\nThe United Federation of Teachers (UFT) is the labor union that represents most teachers in New York City public schools. , there were about 118,000 in-service teachers and 17,000 paraprofessional educators in the union, as well as about 54,000 retired members. In October 2007, 28,280 home day care providers voted to join the union. It is affiliated with the American Federation of Teachers, the AFL-CIO and the Central Labor Council. It is also the largest member of New York State United Teachers, which is affiliated with the National Educational Association and Education International.\n\nTwo previous unions of New York schoolteachers, the Teachers Union, founded in 1916, and the Teachers Guild, founded in 1935, failed to gather widespread enrollment or support. Many of the early leaders were pacifists or socialists and so frequently met with clashes against more right-leaning newspapers and organizations of the time, as red-baiting was fairly common. The ethnically and ideologically diverse teachers associations of the city made the creation of a single organized body difficult, with each association continuing to vie for its own priorities irrespective of the others.\n\nThe UFT was founded in 1960, largely in response to perceived unfairness in the educational system's treatment of teachers. Pensions were awarded to retired teachers only if over 65 or with 35 years of service. Female teachers faced two years of mandatory unpaid maternity leave after they gave birth. Principals could discipline or fire teachers with almost no oversight. The schools, experiencing a massive influx of baby boomer students, often were on double or triple session. Despite being college-educated professionals, often holding advanced master's degrees, teachers drew a salary of $66 per week, in 2005 dollars, the equivalent of $21,000 a year.\n\nThe UFT was created on March 16, 1960 and grew rapidly. On November 7, 1960, the union organized a major strike. The strike largely failed in its main objectives but obtained some concessions, as well as bringing much popular attention to the union. After much further negotiation, the UFT was chosen as the collective bargaining organization for all City teachers in December 1961.\n\nAlbert Shanker, a controversial but successful organizer was president of the UFT from 1964 until 1984. He held an overlapping tenure as president of the national American Federation of Teachers from 1974 to his death in 1997.\n\nIn 1968, the UFT went on strike and shut down the school system in May and then again from September to November to protest the decentralization plan that was being put in place to give more neighborhoods community control. The Ocean Hill-Brownsville strike focused on the Ocean Hill-Brownsville neighborhood of Brooklyn but, ironically, the schools in that area were among the few that were open in the entire city. The Ocean Hill-Brownsville crisis is often described as a turning point in the history of unionism and of civil rights, as it created a rift between African-Americans and the Jewish communities, two groups that were previously viewed as allied. The two sides threw accusations of racism and anti-Semitism at each other.\n\nThe 1970s were a time of fiscal crisis for New York City. In 1975, some 14,000 teachers were laid off and class size soared. Another strike addressed some of these complaints and gave long-serving teachers longevity benefits.\n\nThe Unity Caucus, formed in 1962, predominates in the union, holding nearly every leadership position. New Action formed in the 1980s as an opposition caucus but, since 2003, it has cross-endorsed Unity candidates. The Movement of Rank and File Educators (MORE) is a new caucus, formed in 2012.\n\nIn the spring 2013 UFT election campaign, president Michael Mulgrew (Unity) refused repeated requests to debate his opponent, Julie Cavanagh (MORE).\n\nAccording to UFT's Department of Labor records since 2005, when membership classifications were first reported, about 32% of the union's membership are considered retirees, with eligibility to vote in the union. UFT contracts also cover some non-members, known as agency fee payers, which, since 2005, have numbered comparatively about 1% of the size of the union's membership. As of 2013 this accounts for 59,444 retirees and 2,675 non-members paying agency fees, compared to 124,145 \"active\" members.\n\nThe previous president of the UFT, Randi Weingarten, resigned in 2009 to lead the AFT. She has clashed repeatedly with the mayors of the city; in particular with former mayor Rudy Giuliani and mayor Michael Bloomberg. Bloomberg made student promotion to third, sixth and eighth grade contingent upon performance on standardized tests, which the UFT and the New York Board of Regents have criticized as being flawed.\n\nThe UFT opposes merit pay for teachers, opting for seniority-based pay, but joined in November 2007, with Mayor Bloomberg in agreeing to a voluntary incentive program for high-achieving schools with high-needs populations. The union does not support a proposed reform of the seniority-based LIFO (education) law. In July 2007,Weingarten collaborated with Mayor Bloomberg in supporting a modified merit pay program with bonuses to schools and additional bonuses targeted for specific teachers.\n\nThe UFT strongly supports the reduction of class sizes for all subjects and grade levels in New York City public schools.\n\nThe UFT, under the leadership of presidents Weingarten and Mulgrew, has collaborated with tenets of the education reform movement, such as support for value-added modeling for teacher evaluation.\n\nIn May 2011, the UFT, along with the NAACP and others, filed a lawsuit against the New York City Department of Education to stop school closings and the co-location of schools. In the lawsuit, the union charged that the Department of Education was improperly closing schools.\n\nThe lawsuit also asked the court to stop school co-locations.\n\nBefore a court hearing on the suit in June 2011, parent groups held a news conference to thank the NAACP for fighting on behalf of all kids and to press for fairness and equity.\n\nThe New York City Parents Union filed its own lawsuit in June 2011 to stop co-locations and school closings, stating, “Despite inconsistent and uncertain results, the DOE continues to push public school parents into a privately managed school system where many charters perform worse than the public schools while failing to serve their fair share of students with special needs and English Language Learners.”\n\nOn Friday June 24, 2011, UFT President Michael Mulgrew, along with City Council Speaker Christine Quinn and New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, announced that an agreement had been reached to prevent the layoff of 4,100 New York City teachers. The agreement came six months after Mayor Bloomberg had warned 21,000 layoffs were possible. The union had opposed all layoffs with a strategy of leafleting, marches and rallies, including a march on Wall Street on May 12, 2011, with 20,000 participants.\n\n"}
{"id": "27481830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27481830", "title": "United States Society for Education through Art", "text": "United States Society for Education through Art\n\nThe United States Society for Education through Art (USSEA) is an American national association whose members work in curriculum development, teaching and research related to art education and cultural differences, and who share interests in art educational content and strategies which promote tolerance and appreciation of the arts of non-mainstream cultural peoples. The mission of the society is to promote greater understanding and respect for learners from all ethnic, minority, and socio-cultural backgrounds through research, art curricula, instruction, and practices that are inclusive and culturally sensitive.\n\nThe society provides a platform for networking and a resource base for art educators nationally and internationally, who seek to work collaboratively on projects of interest to multicultural or cross-cultural communities and students, publishes instructional resources for classroom teachers, encourages and sponsors cross-cultural research, and facilitates international and intra-national professional relationships through online sites, symposia, conferences, and publications.\n\nEach year, USSEA honors one national and one international art educator, each of whom has demonstrated exemplary teaching, service, or research in the area of multicultural or cross-cultural art education with the Ziegfeld Art Education award. The \"Journal of Cultural Research in Art Education\" is a publication of USSEA that is made available to all members of the art educational profession. Through the website, members may access suggestions and recommendations for appropriate multi-culturally oriented K-12 art lessons, and receive up-to-date news and information about USSEA initiatives, programs and opportunities. Additionally, exhibitions of children's art from countries around the world are presented at national conferences of art educators and through an online gallery of children's art, which is organized by topical themes and maintained on the USSEA website.\n\nUSSEA was founded in 1977 as an affiliate of the International Society for Education Through Art (InSEA) and the National Art Education Association (NAEA). The goals of USSEA reflect, on a national level, the goals of its international parent organization InSEA, which in turn, was inspired by the spirit of postwar hope and optimism of its parent affiliate UNESCO. In a paper describing the early history of InSEA, the motivational energy and overarching goals of UNESCO and InSEA are explained.\n\n\"The world had just come through a terrible and protracted war, one initiated by false philosophies working on ignorance through massive control of free speech. The impulse in 1945, to try to ensure that it did not happen again, and that people should understand each other better through education and all forms of cultural and scientific exchanges, the passionate emphasis on truth, justice, peace and the importance of the individual – these impulses were irresistible.\"\n\nThese sentiments, which gave root to InSEA in 1954, are also guiding principles of USSEA. Art educator Kenneth Marantz was instrumental in establishing the United States organization and served as its first president. Other founding members who served as officers included Maryl Fletcher De Jong, Larry Kantner, Eugenia Oole, Helen Patton, and Tom Sletterhaugh.\n\nAs a means of disseminating shared ideas about the importance of teaching art to increasingly diverse populations and to develop research agenda for determining effective practices of multicultural art education, USSEA began sponsored conferences and symposia. Fourteen such events were held between 1977 and 2010. The topics addressed included \"Limits and Extents of International Research in Art Education\" (1977), \"Art Education: The Pacific Basin\" (1982), \"International Aspects of Teaching Aesthetics and Critical Skills\" (1987), \"Indigenous People, Art, and Place: Interactions of Culture and Environment in Contemporary Life\" (1994) and \"Crossing Cultural, Artistic, and Cyber Borders\" (2000), and \"Youth and Community Development: How the Arts Serve Economically Impoverished Communities\" (2010). The 1991 USSEA Symposium, \"Beyond the Traditional in Art: Facing a Pluralistic Society,\" resulted in the publication of working papers and research agenda that helped focus cultural art educational research and practices during the late 20th and early 21st century.\n\nSince 1986, USSEA has presented two annual awards in the name of Edwin Ziegfeld, founding president of InSEA (1954–1960) and NAEA (1947–1951), to honor an American art educator and a foreign art educator who have made distinguished leadership contributions to international art education. These awards are presented to the recipients during a USSEA Awards banquet held during the annual NAEA conference.\n\nThe first issue of the USSEA publication \"The Journal of Multicultural and Cross-cultural Research in Art Education\" was issued in 1983 with Larry Kantner as senior editor. In 2001, the title of the journal was changed to the \"Journal of Cultural Research in Art Education\" (JCRAE). Articles published in JCRAE focus on social/cultural research relevant for art education, including cultural foundations of art education, cross-cultural and multicultural research in art education, and cultural aspects of art in education. These areas may be interpreted in a broad sense to include arts administration, art therapy, community arts organizations, and other disciplinary and interdisciplinary approaches relevant to art education. Articles considered for publication may feature theoretical research and research in which qualitative and/or quantitative methods as well as other formats and strategies are employed. In addition to the publication of a journal, USSEA sponsors monographs and sponsors or endorses books that address issues of interest and concern to art educators.\n\n"}
{"id": "27489427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27489427", "title": "Virginia Tech commencement speakers", "text": "Virginia Tech commencement speakers\n\nEach year, Virginia Tech holds commencement ceremonies at the end of the academic year in May, as well as at the end of the Fall semester in December. Since 1990, a separate Graduate School Commencement Ceremony has been held to confer degrees to master's and doctoral students. Fall commencement is held in Cassell Coliseum, and Spring Commencement is held in Lane Stadium.\n"}
{"id": "26451258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26451258", "title": "Watson McMillan Hayes", "text": "Watson McMillan Hayes\n\nWatson McMillan Hayes (, born November 23, 1857 in Mercer County, Pennsylvania - died August 2, 1944 in Weifang, Shandong) was an American Presbyterian missionary and educator in China.\n\nWatson M. Hayes was the son of David Hayes (born April 6, 1832, killed in February 1865 in the American Civil War) and Margaret Jane (Watson) Hayes (born June 28, 1828). He graduated from Allegheny College and entered Western Seminary, Pittsburgh in 1879. \n\nOn August 15, 1882, he was ordained and sent to China in the same year. He taught at Tengchow College and later served as its president in present-day Penglai, Shandong. In 1901, he was invited by Yuan Shikai to organize Shandong College, the forerunner of Shandong University and the second modern university in China. With the backing of Yuan Shikai, he also published Shandong's first successful newspaper (Shantung Times, ) and petitioned the Qing court to grant a holiday on Sundays for government schools and colleges; Shandong College was closed on Sundays right from the start. However, by the end of 1901, Hayes and six Chinese Christian teachers he had brought with him had resigned already over disagreements regarding the policy of mandatory Confucius worship for students of the college. After that, Hayes went on to teach at the Presbyterian Mission Theological College in Cheefoo (Yantai). \n\nWhen the Shandong Christian University was formed through an agreement between the Northern Presbyterian mission and the English Baptist mission, Haynes became the dean of the Theological College in 1916. However, after theological conflicts arose in the college due to the fundamentalist-modernist controversy, Haynes was asked to resign in 1919. He would later be appointed as the principal of the newly formed North China Theological Seminary. \n\nDuring the Second Sino-Japanese War, W. M. Hayes, together with his wife (Margaret Young Hayes) and one of his sons (John David Hayes), was held as a prisoner in the Weihsien (Weixian) Internment Camp, a civilian assembly center operated by the Japanese on the premises of a former Presbyterian mission in the present-day town of Weifang. Hayes was forced to leave from his home for the camp in March 1943. He refused to be repatriated under the \"Prisoners Exchange Project\" organized by the International Red Cross. Suffering from diabetes, W. M. Hayes died in the camp on August 2, 1944, a bit more than one year before the camp was liberated by the Americans on August 12, 1945.\n\nW. M. Hayes' son John D. Hayes (1888–1957), continued to work as a missionary and English teacher in China until he was arrested and tried as a spy in 1951. After 10 months in jail, he was expelled from China. His trial in China was the topic of an article (\"The Brainwashing of John Hayes\", written by Frederic Sondern, Jr) published in \"Readers Digest\" (July 1955) and a television drama of the same title (teleplay by George Bruce, aired on TV Reader's Digest by ABC on 7 November 1955) in which Hayes was portrayed by the actor Vincent Price.\n"}
{"id": "37016142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37016142", "title": "Woolmer Lecture", "text": "Woolmer Lecture\n\nThe Woolmer lecture is the flagship lecture of the Institute of Physics and Engineering in Medicine. It takes place annually during the Institute's Medical Physics and Engineering Conference.\n\nThe lecture is dedicated to Professor Ronald Woolmer who was the first Director of the Research Department of Anaesthetics at the Royal College of Surgeons. Woolmer convened a meeting at the Royal College of Surgeons, London, to discuss the evolving field of engineering applied to medicine. It was agreed that the group should hold regular meetings and as a result the Biological Engineering Society (BES) was formed with Ronald Woolmer as the first President. Woolmer died two years after the formation of the BES and it was agreed that a memorial lecture would be sponsored in recognition of his achievements.\n\n"}
{"id": "21276785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21276785", "title": "World Education Forum", "text": "World Education Forum\n\nThe World Education Forum is a premium body comprising representatives of major organisations involved in education and related activities across the world. Major organisations involved in the forum include: UNESCO, and the World Bank, and the Asian Development Bank. The World Education Forum also involves representatives from governments and education departments across the world. The World Education Forum (Dakar, Senegal, April 2000) adopted the Dakar Framework for Action reaffirming the commitment to achieving Education for All by the year 2015 and entrusted UNESCO with the overall responsibility of co-ordinating and significant international players in this work. The conference, which was held in the international conference centre of the Le Méridien Président Hotel, Dakar, involved over 1,000 national leaders, United Nations agency heads, education policy-makers, non- governmental organizations, business leaders, donors and grassroots workers from over 100 countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "53274767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53274767", "title": "World of Guns: Gun Disassembly", "text": "World of Guns: Gun Disassembly\n\nWorld of Guns: Gun Disassembly is a cross-genre simulation and puzzle video game that allows the player to operate and disassemble various firearms, as well as other mechanisms like automobiles, AFVs and aircraft. It was released in 2014 for Windows and Facebook, and has been subsequently ported to VK.com social network, as well as OS X, iOS and Android platforms. The game is a follow-up on the same developer's \"Gun Disassembly\" series, first released in 2010, expanding on the latter's feature set and library of interactive models.\n\nThe software can be used as both an interactive firearms reference source and encyclopedia, and a casual puzzle game with a goal of disassembling and assembling models in the correct sequence and in the least possible time.\n\nThe player is presented with an interactive model of a real-world firearm (or other mechanism) in a 3D environment. Player has complete control of the camera, along with additional viewing options allowing them to explore the inner mechanical design of the piece. These include a multi-layered X-ray view, \"trainer cutaway\" mode and several slow-motion settings.\n\nDepending on the game mode, the player is required to either learn the correct operation of the weapon, or perform its disassembly or assembly. Game modes are arranged in the order of increasing complexity, including field-stripping the weapon, complete disassembly of the mechanism, and finally disassembly and assembly against the clock and/or with penalties for incorrect moves. Every model has local and global leaderboards and a set of in-game achievements. The game includes interactive shooting ranges with timed objectives, as well as additional features like gun quizzes and a weapon skin editor.\n\n\"World of Guns: Gun Disassembly\" is offered as a free-to-play title. To unlock the initially unavailable models, a player can either spend in-game credits earned through gameplay, or use microtransactions. Bulk DLC packs are available, including a lifetime access bundle which gives the user access to all current and future models in the library.\n\nOne of the game's principal features is a constantly expanding catalog of animated 3D models that dates back to 2010 (the date of initial \"Gun Disassembly\" app's release). On average, developer Noble Empire has been releasing one to two new models monthly. According to developers, 3D models are drawn and animated using actual weapons, original technical documentation and photographic sources. At this time, the \"World of Guns\" library consists of 205 models, with over 23,200 individual animated parts total. This includes historical and modern firearms, as well as several artillery pieces, motorcycles, automobiles (including Humvee and DeLorean DMC-12), an armored vehicle (BMP-3) and a warbird (F4U Corsair). Another set of \"bonus\" models includes dinosaur and mammal skeletons.\n\nThe game has received generally positive reviews. Notably, Steve Johnson, the founder of a popular gun enthusiast online publication \"The Firearm Blog\", described \"World of Guns\" as \"my favorite gun app, without a doubt\". Johnson noted his use of the game as a reference guide and learning aid: \"I have even used it to figure out how to fit some old mil-surplus guns I own\". Rock, Paper, Shotgun praised \"World of Guns\" and its earlier iterations on multiple occasions, at one point comparing it favorably to \"Car Mechanic Simulator\". RPS reviewers described the game as \"disarmingly obsessive and up-front\", \"mesmerizing\", \"a pleasing almost ritualistic act\", and noted that \"[previously, we] called its gameplay \"almost philosophical\", which is partly a joke but I think very true\".\n\nTouchArcade's review of the early version of the \"Gun Disassembly\" game was lukewarm (2.5/5 stars), commending it as a \"technical app with an extraordinary amount of detail\", and \"a singular experience\", but noting its \"limited appeal\" and expressing doubts if it qualifies to be called a game. Launch Party Gaming reviewer criticized the \"pay-to-win\" model used by the game, but praised it as a \"must have for gun enthusiasts\" and a \"great simulator\" (6.5/10). The review by firearms blog Guns.Com has pointed out that \"World of Guns\" is \"a bit rough\", but called its core functionality \"outstanding\" and a \"unique resource\", described the microtransactions model as \"reasonable\", and underlined its utility as reference for servicing actual firearms. The reviewer went on to say that \"...when I buy a gun I usually check to see if WoG has a model of it, and if there is one, I’ll buy it\". The game was also covered in Russian-language gaming press, including a segment on the \"Ot Vinta!\" TV show about videogames..\n\nAccording to SteamSpy, 2.2 million Steam users own the game (average rating 82%, \"Very Positive\"). The \"World of Guns\" app for the VK.com social network has 810,000 installs; the Facebook app lists 10,000 monthly active users and 130,000 subscribers.\n\nThe earlier \"Gun Disassembly\" app has \"1 to 5 million installs\" and 4/5 average rating listed on its Google Play Store page. It has a 4/5 rating on Apple AppStore.\n"}
