{"id": "7236253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7236253", "title": "African American Museum and Library at Oakland", "text": "African American Museum and Library at Oakland\n\nThe African American Museum and Library at Oakland (AAMLO) is a museum and non-circulating library dedicated to preserving the history and experiences of African Americans in Oakland, California, United States. It contains an extensive archival collection of such artifacts as diaries, correspondence, photos, and periodicals.\n\nIt is located in what was the Carnegie library building, now called the Charles A. Greene building in Oakland, at the corner of 14th and Martin Luther King Jr. Way in Oakland, California, which served as the Oakland Main Library from 1902 to 1951.\n\nThe AAMLO began as a private collection in 1946, and in 1964 became the East Bay Negro Historical Society, Inc. It later changed its name to the Northern California Center for Afro-American History & Life, before being incorporated into the city of Oakland in 1994 under its current name, the African American Museum and Library at Oakland.\n\nAmong the more than 160 collections in the library are archives relating to Martin Luther King, Jr., Malcolm X, the Black Panthers, Africa, and genealogy. Materials include photographs, manuscripts, letters, diaries, newspapers, recorded oral histories, videos, and microfilms. AAMLO's two galleries host changing exhibitions of art, history, and culture.\n\nAAMLO began as a private collection in 1946. Initially housed in a small shop front on Grove Street (now Martin Luther King, Jr., Boulevard), the collection grew quickly and, in 1960, moved into the Oakland Public Library's Golden Gate Branch. It officially became AAMLO, a public/ private partnership, in 1994. AAMLO moved into its current location in 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2583081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2583081", "title": "Afrology", "text": "Afrology\n\nAfrology is a scientific study of the organization of the contemporary social structures of Africa. It places in the heart of African social change the notion of \"identity\".\n\nAfrology is a way of thinking about the various forms of social, institutional and personal identification. It posits that each individual, though determined by mental and psychological structures, reconstructs himself within the framework of specific or general broad collective identities, of which the modern State is an example.\n\nThis identity remains to be created in Africa. The problem arising in contemporary Africa is that of the reality of this State, federator of the institutions of socialization like the family, the village and the market, is for the most part unrealized. The collective identity, its delimitations, and its instrumentalization by politics consequently constitute the major axes of the comprehension of African society.\n\nThe objective of \"Afrology Think Tank\" is to share a vision of the current socio-economic topicality with various actors, writers, economists, lawyers, data processing specialists, accountants and others. It also tries to collect information on the Internet and make some randomly selected texts available to readers. The goal of Afrology is to create a true space for reflection and debates on the African continent.\n\n"}
{"id": "21433728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21433728", "title": "Air gun laws", "text": "Air gun laws\n\nThis is a list of laws concerning air guns by country.\n\nWhile in some countries air guns are not subject to any specific regulation, in most there are laws, which differ widely. Each jurisdiction has its own definition of an air gun; and regulations may vary for weapons of different bore, muzzle energy or velocity, or material of ammunition, with guns designed to fire metal pellets often more tightly controlled than airsoft weapons. There may be minimum ages for possession, and sales of both air guns and ammunition may be restricted. Some areas in the world require permits and background checks similar to those required for firearms proper.\n\nThe Australian gun law is quite restrictive and differs on a state-by-state basis; however, as general rule all air guns — regardless of action type, caliber and muzzle energy — are considered firearms for legal purposes; e.g. air rifles are considered Class A firearms and as such are subject to licensing and registration.\n\nAir pistols are considered handguns and subjected to Class H firearms restrictions. An air pistol shooter will require membership and attendance at an authorized pistol club for six months before allowing ownership, and need to shoot in at least ten events per year — four for each handgun class (air pistol, rimfire or centerfire) — including at least six formal competitions to keep the licence.\n\nPaintball markers are classified as \"soft air weapons\" and treated differently to other air guns; refer to the paintball section on legality for a state-by-state breakdown.\n\nThough also regarded as \"soft air weapons\", airsoft guns are strictly prohibited in all states except in the Northern Territory (where they are considered regular airguns and subjected to the corresponding laws and licensing) and the ACT (where they are considered \"imitation firearms\").\n\nThe Brazilian legislation that regulates the manufacture, import, export, trade, traffic and use of airguns divide them into two groups:\nAirguns in the first group may be purchased by anyone over 18. Airguns in the second group can only be purchased by people registered in the army, transportation depends on authorization, and usage is allowed only in places approved by the army. Airguns of any kind may not be carried openly. There is no muzzle energy limit for any type or calibre.\n\nScopes or any equipment with magnification needs to be registered by the army in the shooter's registry and accompany a traffic authorization, and are allowed to civilians only if under 6 times magnification and with the objective lens smaller than 36 millimeters. Scopes with magnification equal or above 6 times and/or over 35 milimeters, or equipment that mark the target (like laser sights), are restricted to civilians and allowed only for use by the army. The permitted equipment has to be registered in the civilian's document, this process is called \"Apostilamento\". The document for a shooter's registry is called \"Certificado de Registro de Atirador\".\n\nAir guns can be freely bought and owned by any person older than 18 years old. Only pistols with muzzle energy exceeding are not allowed. There is no maximum muzzle energy limit for rifles.\nOpen carry of airguns is not allowed. The use of air guns is restricted non-public places, being shooting ranges, inside a house or a backyard that is not easily accessible from the street.\n\nIn Bulgaria anyone over the age of 18 can obtain an airgun if its muzzle energy is below that of 24 Joules. Weapons cannot be bought online.\n\nAir guns with both a muzzle velocity greater than 152.4 meters per second (500 feet per second) and a muzzle energy greater than 5.7 joules (4.2 foot-pounds) are firearms for purposes of both the Firearms Act and the Criminal Code. Usually the manufacturer’s specifications are used to determine the design muzzle velocity and energy. Air rifles that meet these velocity and energy criteria are generally classified as non-restricted firearms; however, some are classified as restricted or prohibited, depending on the exact design of the air rifle. Air pistols are classified as restricted if their barrel is longer than 105 mm or prohibited if their barrel length is 105 mm or less. The lawful possession of these airguns requires that the owner have a valid firearms licence and that the airgun be registered as a firearm.\n\nAir guns that meet the Criminal Code definition of a firearm, but that are deemed not to be firearms for certain purposes of the Firearms Act and Criminal Code are those that have a muzzle velocity of less than 152.4 meters per second (500 feet per second) and/or a maximum muzzle energy of 5.7 joules (4.2 foot pounds). Such air guns are exempt from licensing, registration, and other requirements under the Firearms Act, and from penalties set out in the Criminal Code for possessing a firearm without a valid licence or registration certificate. However, they are considered to be firearms under the Criminal Code if they are used to commit a crime. The simple possession, acquisition and use of these air guns for lawful purposes is regulated by provincial and municipal laws and by-laws. For example, some provinces may have set a minimum age for acquiring such an air gun. These air guns are exempt from the specific safe storage, transportation and handling requirements set out in the regulations supporting the Firearms Act. However, the Criminal Code requires that reasonable precautions be taken to use, carry, handle, store, transport, and ship them in a safe and secure manner.\n\nCarrying one of these firearms is permitted for those aged 14 or older.\n\nSuppressors for all firearms, including airguns, are prohibited in Canada.\n\nIn the Czech Republic anyone over age of 18 can acquire air gun with a muzzle energy not exceeding . Children over age of 10 have to be supervised by adult when shooting. The only restriction on shooting place is requirement of public safety. Since firearms can be used only at the officially licensed shooting ranges air guns became popular to practice target shooting at or near the home.\n\nAir guns with a muzzle energy over require the same licence as firearms and police registration. Such air guns can be used only at the shooting ranges.\n\nSince September 2013, air rifles with a muzzle energy less than 20 joules (14 ft lbf) can be acquired by persons over age 18 and no licence is required. (Previously the limit was 10 joules.) For air rifles of 20 joules muzzle energy or more, a hunting licence or club shooting licence is required. However, hunting or pest control with air guns is illegal in France.\n\nIn Germany, air guns producing a muzzle energy up to 7.5 joule (J) (5.53 ft·lbf) can be owned by persons from the age of 18 years and freely acquired provided they bear the \"F-in-pentagon\" mark\" that indicates a muzzle energy not exceeding kinetic energy. Carrying air guns in public necessitates a carry permit (§ 10 Abs. 4 WaffG), extremely rare as such and never granted for air guns. Only the transportation of unloaded and non-accessible air guns (or carrying unloaded during biathlon) is considered a \"permissible carry\" (§ 12 Abs. 3 Nr. 2, Nr. 3 WaffG).\n\nShooting is permitted on licensed ranges (§ 27 Abs. 1, § 12 Abs. 4 2 Nr. 1 WaffG), and on enclosed private property if it is assured that the projectiles can not possibly leave the shooting area (§ 12 Abs. 4 Nr. 1a WaffG). The minimum age for air gun shooting in Germany is 12 years under supervision (§ 27 Abs. 3 S. 1 Nr. 1 WaffG), but exceptions may be granted to younger children upon request, supported by suitable references from a doctor and by a licensed shooting federation (§ 27 Abs. 4 WaffG).\n\nAir weapons exceeding 7.5 J muzzle energy, e.g. field target guns, are treated like firearms and therefore require a relevant permit for acquisition and possession. Proof of need, a clean criminal record and the passing of a knowledge and handling test are required (§ 4 Abs. 1 WaffG) to gain the permit.\n\nA purchase authorization is not required for air guns that were manufactured and introduced onto the market before 1 January 1970 in Germany or before 2 April 1991 on the territory of the former East Germany (WaffG, Appendix 2, Section 1, Subsection 2, 1.2); they can, regardless of their muzzle energy or the absence of an \"F-in-pentagon\" mark, be freely acquired and possessed.\n\nThe storage requirements for firearms do not apply to air guns (cf. § 36 Abs. 1 S. 1 WaffG); they must only be stored unaccessible to minors.\n\nIn the Isle of Man, Air guns are treated in the same manner as conventional firearms and require a relevant firearms certificate.\n\nIn Italy, any mechanism that produces a muzzle energy higher than 1 joule (0.74 ft·lbf) and lower than 7.5 joules (5.53 ft·lbf) is considered a \"low-power air gun\"; the sale of such instruments is open to anyone over 18 years of age without licence or registration, but it can take place only in authorized gun shops where the owner must require the purchaser to provide his ID Card as a proof of age.\n\nAny device developing a muzzle energy equal to, or higher than, 7.5 joules is considered a \"high-power air gun\", requiring Police licensing and registration for purchase and detention just like any firearm. Bows, crossbows and similar are exempt from this rule. The muzzle energy of such devices is certified by a governance office called \"Banco di Prova\". Air guns developing less than 1 joule of muzzle energy are categorized as airsoft, which are considered by law as toys, with no restriction whatsoever to their trade, except that they can never be modified to achieve a higher muzzle energy and must be only able to shoot 6 mm plastic pellets.\n\nIt is illegal to hunt with air guns.\n\nIn the Netherlands, air guns can be owned by persons from the age of 18 years and can freely be acquired. Until 1997 there were limitations on muzzle velocity and kinetic energy, similar to the German law, but these restrictions were lifted for practical reasons. Carrying air guns in public and the possession of air guns (and toy guns) that resemble firearms is prohibited. The expression \"to resemble\" is nowadays given a very broad interpretation so that just about any airgun can be considered to resemble a firearm. Whether an airgun is considered to resemble a firearm too closely is decided by the police or, when it comes to that, by the court. It is impossible to predict the outcome of such courtcases. \nAir guns may be kept in private homes but must be inaccessible for persons under 18. \nCommercial sales of airguns may only take place in licensed gunshops. It is illegal to own an airgun that was \"produced or modified so that it can more easily be carried concealed\". Generally this is considered the case when the barrel has been shortened or the weapon has a folding or telescoping stock.\n\nIn New Zealand any member of the public over the age of 18 may own and fire most air rifles without a firearms licence, provided they use the air rifle in a safe environment with a responsible attitude.\n\nMinors 16 and over, but under the age of 18, require a Firearms Licence to possess an air rifle – however, they may use an air rifle under adult supervision without this licence.\n\nAirguns can not be fully automatic, and there is provision under the New Zealand \"Arms Acts\" to specify \"specially dangerous airguns\". Only pre-charged pneumatic rifles have now been specified in this category, but for these a firearms licence is now a requirement for possession and use. The change was made as a consequence of two fatal shootings by .22 calibre semi-automatic air rifles.\n\nIn Poland it is possible to freely acquire air guns with a muzzle energy not exceeding . Air guns with muzzle energy over 17 J are considered FAC and must be registered at a local police station no later than 5 days after purchase (a gun licence is not needed). FAC air guns can only be used at the officially licensed shooting ranges. Hunting/shooting animals with air guns is illegal and can lead to prosecution.\n\nIn Singapore, airguns are classified as 'arms', in the same category as firearms utilising gunpowder as propellant among other weapons. It is necessary to obtain a licence from the Singapore Police Force before one can import, export or own an airgun.\n\nAirguns are defined as of \"\"...calibre less that 5.6 mm (.22 calibre)...\" and, \"...muzzle energy less than 8 joules...\"\" These do not require a licence, but those of higher calibre or power are considered firearms.\n\nAirguns still count as firearms if used in a crime, and can't be fired or exposed in public areas. Airguns may be carried on one's person concealed, not openly. It is an offense to shoot animals and human beings, except criminals and animals which are attacking you. It must also be carried in a bag, not on your body, otherwise it is an offence.\n\nIn Sweden, airguns are regarded as firearms, and generally require a licence. Limited energy weapons, such as airguns and paintball guns and are however licence free, but may not be used by a minor under 18 years of age, unless licensed or under adult supervision. Limited energy weapons may not have a muzzle energy exceeding 10 J measured four metres from the muzzle. Fully automatic limited energy weapons may not exceed 3 J.\n\nAir pistols generating more than 6 ft·lbf (8.1 J) and air rifles generating more than 12 ft·lbf (16.2 J) of muzzle energy are legally termed \"specifically dangerous firearms\". As a result, ownership of these air rifles requires the possession of a Firearm Certificate (FAC); however, ownership of such air pistols is prohibited as they are defined as \"Prohibited Weapons\" under Section 5 of the \"Firearms Act 1968\". (Section 5 Authority is usually only granted to members of the Gun Trade.)\n\nPistols and rifles below these energy levels are still termed firearms and are dealt with under the \"Firearms Act\", but do not require licensing in England and Wales, and may be purchased by anyone over the age of 18. Pistols and rifles under 0.737 ft·lbf (1 J) are not included under firearms regulations in the UK but do fall under the VCR act. In Northern Ireland any air rifle or air pistol generating more than 0.737 ft·lbf (1 J) is considered a firearm and as such requires a FAC.\nIn Scotland, the Air Weapons and Licensing (Scotland) Act 2015 introduced an air weapon certificate in Scotland, which anyone owning an air weapon is now required to hold.\nThe \"Violent Crime Reduction Act 2006\" prohibits online or mail-order sale of new air guns in the UK. UK transactions for new items from retail UK shops must be finalised face-to-face, either at the shop where purchased, or through a Registered Firearms Dealer (to which an item may be posted and the transfer completed). Since February 2011, The \"Crime & Security Act 2010\" (S.46) made it an offence \"...for a person in possession of an air weapon to fail to take reasonable precautions to prevent any person under the age of eighteen from having the weapon with him...\". This legislation essentially relates to the storage of air guns and the requirement of owners to prevent unauthorised access by children. Failure to do so renders owners liable for a fine of up to £1,000.\n\nPossession of an air gun while trespassing, with or without ammunition, loaded or unloaded is armed trespass, and is considered a serious criminal offence and subject to heavy penalties.\n\nThe Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives states that:\n\nAlthough the federal government does not normally regulate air guns, some state and local governments do; the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence has compiled a list of states and selected municipalities that regulate air guns, finding that 23 states and the District of Columbia regulate air guns to some degree. Two states (New Jersey and Rhode Island) define all non-powder guns as firearms; one state (Illinois) defines certain high-power and/or large calibre non-powder guns as firearms; three states (Connecticut, Delaware and North Dakota) define non-powder guns as dangerous weapons (but not firearms). The remaining states which regulate air guns impose age restrictions on possession, use, or transfer of non-powder guns, and/or explicitly regulate possession of non-powder guns on school grounds.\n\nNew York City has a restrictive municipal ordinance regulating air guns. Air guns were previously banned in San Francisco, but a state preemption statute struck down the ban, and the San Francisco District Attorney declared them legal as long as they are in compliance with state law.\n\nNew York state law prohibits anyone under the age of 16 from possessing an air gun.\n\nAlong with state laws, local county laws or ordinances may be relevant to users of air guns. Generally, state laws do not mention air gun laws, but local counties do.\n"}
{"id": "48395230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48395230", "title": "Atelier Calder", "text": "Atelier Calder\n\nFounded in 1989, by members of Alexander Calder's family in collaboration with the Centre national des arts plastiques (CNAP), the Atelier Calder residency program offers artists the residencies to create new work and projects in Calder's studio and home in Saché, France.\n"}
{"id": "8283469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8283469", "title": "Backlash: The Undeclared War Against American Women", "text": "Backlash: The Undeclared War Against American Women\n\nBacklash: The Undeclared War Against American Women is a 1991 nonfiction book by Pulitzer Prize winner Susan Faludi, in which the author presents evidence demonstrating the existence of a media driven \"backlash\" against the feminist advances of the 1970s.\n\nFaludi argues that the backlash uses a strategy of \"blaming the victim\", by suggesting that the women's liberation movement itself is the cause of many of the problems alleged to be plaguing women in the late 1980s. She also argues that many of these problems are illusory, constructed by the media without reliable evidence.\n\nFaludi also identifies backlash as an historical trend, recurring when women have made substantial gains in their efforts to obtain equal rights. The book won the National Book Critics Circle Award for non-fiction in 1991.\n\nA 15th anniversary edition was released in 2006.\n\n\"Backlash\" is Susan Faludi's 550 page analysis of social, economic and political inequities and resulting difficulties American women faced in the 1980s. The book was hailed as \"the most vehement and unapologetic call to arms to issue from the feminist camp in many years\", and \"a rich compendium of fascinating information and an indictment of a system losing its grip...\" that \"has already done much to ignite a revolutionary \"national\" consciousness\". Published within a year of several other popular feminist writings – Naomi Wolf's \"The Beauty Myth\" (1990), Gloria Steinem's \"Revolution From Within\" (1992), and Marilyn French's \"The War Against Women\" (1992) – Faludi's book garnered front page attention in national newspapers and magazines, and interviews of its author on television and radio. As a best-seller, \"Backlash\" rejuvenated feminist discussion in the media, and established Faludi as a leading spokesperson for women's issues in the 1990s.\n\nFaludi was inspired to write \"Backlash\" after investigating the statistics behind a 1986 \"Newsweek\" cover story that reported on a Harvard-Yale study detailing the bleak marital prospects for single, educated career women. The statistics were in error and did not reflect the reality, so Faludi began to examine other sensationalized stories about women that were being promoted by the media. She believes that her book started to attract the attention it did because women relegated to - and writing for - the arts and culture sections of journals and newspapers, frustrated with internal job discrimination and believing the book addressed the problem, helped to get initial coverage. Faludi also says the 1991 fall publishing date was an advantage because during the originally planned spring date \"we were in the middle of a war, it was boys' time\" and the book \"would have dropped like a stone\", whereas the \"fall was girls' time because of Anita Hill.\" As well, two publishing companies, Crown Publishing Group (Faludi's \"Backlash\") and Little, Brown and Company (Gloria Steinem's \"Revolution From Within\") made an unusual decision to promote the two books together, which proved commercially successful in heightening attention for the authors, the books, and the subject matter. Faludi and Steinem were together on the cover of \"Time\", in ads, in interviews and in the \"reams of commentary on both books\".\n\nA staple topic on the editorial opinion pages of newspapers and magazines, \"Backlash\" drew strong and conflicting responses, including significant \"backlash\", such as comments where Faludi was accused of feminist \"sulking on the bestseller lists\" and ignoring the gains of the women's movement. Faludi was hailed as \"the best thinker of the year\", \"a crackerjack interviewer\", and praised for her documentation, journalistic thoroughness, and empathetic interviewing skills. Paul Shore, in the \"Humanist\", writes that \"Backlash\" has done \"more than any other recent work...to compel us to see the forces controlling and crippling women for what they really are: forces working against the interests of everyone.\"\n\nIn a 1992 cover-story and review for \"The American Spectator\", Mary Eberstadt expands on what she feels are blatant contradictions in \"Backlash\", and cites alleged incidences of flawed data and erroneous logic. Peggy Phelan, writing for \"American Literary History\", points out Faludi, having faith in her own statistical analysis data, does not account for the partiality and distortions of statistics, and Phelan says \"[o]ne cannot both attack \"bad\" numbers and neutrally present \"good\" numbers.\" Michael Crichton stated in a 2002 speech- \"Susan Faludi's book Backlash, which won the National Book Critics Circle Award for General Nonfiction in 1991, and which presented hundreds of pages of quasi-statistical assertions based on a premise that was never demonstrated and that was almost certainly false\". One reviewer claims Faludi \"builds a well researched and carefully documented case\", while another thinks she \"skews data, misquotes primary sources and makes serious errors of omission\". Nancy Gibbs, a journalist with \"Time\" magazine, calls \"Backlash\" \"one of the landmark books that shaped the opinions of the opinion shapers.\"\n\nResponding to criticism of the book's details, choice and use of data, Gibbs quotes \"The big picture is there, and the big picture is accurate\" in her defense of \"Backlash\"'s ambitious scope and mass of information.\n\nIn a review of \"Backlash\" for the journal \"The Nation\", Gayle Greene discusses Faludi's documenting of factory closures, the move to a service oriented economy and the millions of lost jobs for blue-collar workers. She says \"Faludi's analysis accounts for not only anti-feminism but for the resurgence of racism and explains why the most virulent expressions of both have tended to come from those hurting from social and economic dislocation.\" In contrast, Peggy Phelan, writing for \"American Literary History\", says \"Faludi's \"America\" is emphatically white and heterosexual\" and points out the overwhelming use of white, middle-class people in \"Backlash's\" examples. Interview participants and detailed anecdotes are of whites, while people of colour are only mentioned as statistical categories. She accuses Faludi of forgetting race as a statistical signifier, and also of failing to consider and connect sexism, race, and homophobia in her analysis. Phelan finds \"these are shocking omissions in a 'feminist' manifesto for the nineties\" and believes it reveals the \"real target audience is the very mainstream media market [Faludi] relentlessly critiques.\" Mary Eberstadt is critical of what she perceives to be Faludi's hypocrisy, saying that as a successful woman with a Harvard education she is condescending of poor and working-class people in her descriptions of them in \"Backlash\".\n\nReviewers writing from conservative perspectives were concerned with what they understood to be Faludi's endorsement of single-minded feminist interests at the expense of traditional family values. Maggie Gallagher, writing for the \"National Review\", claims \"the biggest danger facing us today comes not from discrimination in the workplace but from the collapse of the family\", while another conservative writer claims the women's movement, and \"Backlash\", chronically do not address the fact of women having husbands and children. Gloria Steinem suggests that talking about 'family' rather than 'women's' issues \"renders women invisible\", and Faludi says that \"all family issues should not be women's issues...they should be human issues.\" To confound feminism and family promotes the idea that women only exist when they have husbands and children.\n\nWriting from a legal perspective, Rebecca Eisenberg of the \"Harvard Law Review\", says of Faludi's book that \"[a]lthough written for the general public, \"Backlash\" can benefit the legal community as well. Faludi's incisive accounts of women's lives provide a meaningful and accurate basis for legal redress of social inequality\". She feels when the status quo is seen by the judicial system to be a result of gender hierarchy, \"the many ways in which the law ignores the reality of women's lives\" will become apparent, and the \"affirmative transformation of the legal system becomes a reasonable step towards equality.\" In \"Backlash\", Faludi points out that among industrialized nations, only the United States has not institutionalized basic child care and leave for working parents. Of this, Eisenberg says \"there is virtually no case law on the inequality of depriving women of equal opportunities to balance both a family and a career\" by this failure to provide necessary childcare or parental leave. Praising Faludi's \"tenacious investigative journalism\" as well as her anecdotal writing and personal interviews, Eisenberg says \"her snapshots of women's experiences provide a basis for realistic anaysis of the legal status quo.\"\n\nOne chapter (1) - The main premise of the book is that there are two overarching media messages regarding feminism's gains for women since the 1980s: The feminist fight for equality has largely been won, and now that women have this equality they have never been so miserable (ix). Faludi contends that women are not yet equal and there is a counter-assault to halt or reverse the hard-won gains in the quest for equality. By reporting statistically unsupported ideas of how feminism has negatively affected women, the media has helped to create a 'backlash' that encourages women to reject the gains and the struggle for real equality. Reports of \"the man-shortage\", \"the infertility epidemic\", \"female burnout\", and \"toxic day-care\" are not the actual conditions of women's lives, but are false images portrayed by the media, popular culture and advertising.(xv)\n\nConsisting of two chapters (2 & 3), this portion documents the unsubstantiated statistics that form the backdrop of myths about women being more unhappy in their lives now. Faludi presents counter-evidence to several media myths which include: that there is a shortage of potential spouses for women; that new no-fault divorce laws are negatively affecting women's finances; that professional and career women are increasingly infertile and have more mental illnesses than their non-working counterparts; and that working women's reliance on daycare subjects their children to permanent adverse effects academically, socially and emotionally. Faludi shows that none of these are true.\n\nShe also charts the incidences of similar backlashes in American history, focusing on the women's movements of the Victorian era and after - the late 1840s, and the early 1900s, 1940s and 1970s. She shows that the same media reporting of adverse effects was present in each of these eras, as well as the same pressure to reverse women's gains. She quotes American scholar Ann Douglas, \"The progress of women's rights in our culture, unlike other types of 'progress', has always been strangely reversible.\" (46)\n\nConsisting of five chapters (4, 5, 6, 7& 8), this part covers the media delivery of a backlash through the reporting of 'trends'; the evidence of a counter-assault on feminism in Hollywood's portrayal of women in the 1980s; television's projection of the backlash in its changing roles for women; the change of focus in the fashion industry from the business suits of the 1970s to 'feminine' and impractical lingerie in the 1980s; and the cosmetic industry's emphasis on unnaturally accentuating features and its promotion of cosmetic surgery.\n\nFaludi describes 'trend journalism\" of the 1980s, where newspaper articles gained authority through repetition rather than evidence-based reporting (79). Reporting on trends such as \"cocooning \", \"the new abstinence\", \"the new femininity\", \"the new morality\" and \"the new celibacy\" pretended to be about facts while offering none. Trend stories contradicted each other, and served a political agenda by implying women's experiences had nothing to do with political events or social pressures (81).\n\nAlso documented is the change in Hollywood's screen images of women from the 1970s independent single women to the epitome of anti-feminist sentiment in the vengeful and frightening portrayal of a single career woman in the 1980s movie Fatal Attraction.\n\nAlthough less virulent than Hollywood, television toned down the strong independence of women in 1970s shows such as \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\" and \"The Bionic Woman\", returned actress Mary Tyler Moore to the 1980s screen as a burned out divorcee with a bleak career and existence in the short-lived \"Mary\" (157) and cancelling its extremely popular and award-winning series \"Cagney & Lacey\" because the characters were \"inordinately abrasive, loud, and lacking warmth.\"(152). According to Faludi, a \"good\" female character was Hope, the angelic stay-at-home mom in the series \"thirtysomething\", who was envied by her careerist female friends.\n\nFaludi describes the fashion and cosmetic industries \"little girl\" clothing designs and the emphasis on frills, flounces and \"feminising\" as an eruption of resentment by the fashion industry towards the increasingly independent buying habits of female shoppers. The rising prices caused a \"fashion revolt\" by women who wouldn't do what the industry told them to and the industry replied with corsets and bustiers. \"In every backlash, the fashion industry has produced punitively restrictive clothing and the fashion press has demanded that women wear them\" Faludi claims. (173)\n\nThe harsh beauty standards of the late 1980s are also detailed, describing the pressure on women to look young when past their youth, and the promotion of cosmetic surgery as a means to this end.\n\nConsisting of three chapters (9, 10 & 11), this portion deals with the \"New Right\" movement and its pro-family, although anti-feminist, agenda; the Reagan presidency and its reversal of feminist gains of the 1970s; and the mainstream thinkers and writers whose views aided the public acceptance of the backlash.\nFaludi discusses the New Right's intention to \"turn the clock back to 1954\" and their articulation of the idea that women's equality is responsible for women's unhappiness (230). She traces the rise of the New Right and their attacks on feminists and the Equal Rights Amendment, and describes how some of the most politically active anti-feminist women of these organizations were actually benefiting from feminist ideas of self-determination, equality and freedom of choice (256).\nFeminism's fortune under the Reagan administration is examined, and the drop in numbers of women in federal office, as well as the decline in federal programs that supported women's equality during those years, indicates it did not fare well. By the end of the decade, one survey found, the National Organization for Women (NOW) were the political body the majority of women felt represented their interests best - better than either the Republican or the Democratic parties. NOW might have formed a third party but for the outrage, anger and derision this idea drew from the media and press (277).\nFaludi also profiles nine men and women, some anti-feminist, and some neutral, but all \"the backlash's emissaries\" for their views and positions in the mainstream media: George Gilder, Allan Bloom, Michael and Margarita Levin, Warren Farrell, Robert Bly, Sylvia Ann Hewlett, Betty Friedan, and Carol Gilligan. Faludi's avowed intent in these cameos is to illustrate the less recognized factors, from professional grievances to domestic strain, that may have influenced their approach to feminist concerns (283).\n\nConsisting of three chapters (12, 13 & 14), Faludi's fourth part deals with the fallout of self-help books directed toward women; the misinformation and disinformation campaign of the Reagan administration regarding women's loss of status in the workplace; and the conservative attempt to reverse the results of legalized abortion (Roe vs. Wade).\n\nFaludi outlines the views of popular psychology books urging women to understand all the reactions of the backlash as originating in themselves. (337) According to Faludi self-help manuals of the 1980s suggested women's power was rooted in surrender and submission to their men and Faludi says that the 1980s therapy books \"blot out the most basic premise of feminist therapy – that both social and personal growth are important, necessary, and mutually reinforcing.\" (338) In 1985 the American Psychiatric Association (APA) added \"pre-menstrual dysphoric disorder\" (PMS), and \"masochistic personality disorder\" to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (the DSM), thereby, Faludi asserts, causing women's fluctuating hormone levels and socially enforced pleasing of others to become diagnostically determined illnesses (362).\n\nAn increased difference in the average pay of men and women, and falling rates of women's employment opportunities and job promotions, were facts downplayed or ignored by the Reagan administration; while the media reported corporate claims of record highs in jobs and promotions for women (363). Faludi reports statistical proof of a decline in job status and an increasingly sex-segregated work force, with wages for women falling throughout the 1980s, all areas in which the media claimed the opposite. She also describes sharply contracting opportunities for women in journalism, the retail industry, and skilled blue-collar jobs.\n\nIn the final chapter, Faludi relates the story of Randall Terry, the founder of Operation Rescue, an activist anti-abortion group, and discusses the unspoken sub-text of the right-to-life campaign – the shifting of the balance of sexual power and \"the patriarch's eclipsed ability to make the family decisions\"(403). Faludi states that the rate of abortion has not increased significantly over the past 100 years, but that legalization has increased the safety of the women choosing the procedure. She charts the increase in the rights of the fetus and decline in the rights of the mother through the 1970s and 1980s, and describes how at least fifteen of America's largest corporations drafted \"fetal protection policies\", which effectively excluded women, pregnant or not, from higher paying jobs that involved exposure to chemicals or radiation (437).\n\nFaludi concludes by suggesting that although the 1980s was a decade that \"produced one long, painful and unremitting campaign to thwart women's progress\" women pushed back. She states that although there have been periodic attempts to reverse women's gains, women have resisted. Faludi wonders how effective the resistance of the 1980s has been, claiming women seemed unaware of their real political power and vitality in that decade, and missed an opportunity to make a \"great leap forward\" (459).\n\nFaludi believes that although there is no longer a backlash, this may not be a good thing. She notes that we are being told that feminism's goals have been achieved, and young women no longer need to identify as feminists(x). Through the 1990s women made political and economical headway that brought them closer to equal representation and pay, but Faludi believes it is a distorted view of feminism that is present in mainstream America today. She claims feminism has been co-opted by commercialism, and economic independence has become buying power; self-determination has become commodified self-improvement of \"physical appearance, self-esteem and the fool's errand of reclaiming one's youth\"; and public agency has been transformed to publicity (xv). Faludi says we have yet to find our way to the \"more meaningful goals of social change, responsible citizenship, the advancement of human creativity, [and] the building of a mature and vital public world.\" Her concern is that our social structure and cultural ideology have not fundamentally changed – \"We have used our gains to gild our shackles, but not break them.\"(xvi).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31497956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31497956", "title": "Baker Cave", "text": "Baker Cave\n\nBaker Cave is a prehistoric archaeological site located on a small canyon near Devils River in Southwest Texas. Dating from \"circa\" 7,000–7,800 BCE, Baker Cave is a part of a system of rock shelters in the Lower Pecos Canyons region and was 120 feet long by 56 feet deep (37 m × 17 m). The ceiling varied from at the mouth to just a few inches in the back.\n\nThese sites are common in the limestone formations in the Lower Pecos region. The site was perched well above the flood, preserving the materials that ancient peoples had left behind. A large cooking hearth was found inside it, dating to around 9,000 years ago, and containing small creatures such as snakes, rats, fish, and rabbits, and a wide variety of seeds and nuts, indicating a diversified diet. The recovery of a complete Golondrina point established Paleo-Indian residence in Baker Cave. They were estimated, by radiocarbon dating, to have been there sometime between 7080 BCE and 6960 BCE. These dates are older and not consistent with other sites in the area. Potential contamination of the charcoal tested could have led to this difference in dates. The people at Baker Cave had an archaic life and lived off small game and foraging. The mouth of the cave was primarily used for cooking, the middle of everyday life routine, and the rear of the cave for food processing. No further research has been done on Baker Cave; however, the Lower Pecos Region of Texas has numerous other cave excavations ongoing.\n\nThe site was named after the Baker family, who owned the land and allowed archaeological research in the shelter. The Baker family had protected the site from looters, as did its isolated location. The first fieldwork began in April 1962, by archaeologists from the University of Texas at Austin's Archaeology Research Lab, who designated the shelter 41 VV 213.\n\nJames H. Word directed the majority of the archaeological investigation together with University of Texas archaeologists E. Mott Davis and T.N. Campbell. The Texas Memorial Museum also sent Mr. Curtis Tunnel and Texas Technological College sent Mr. John W. Greer and Dr. David R. Kelley. Mrs. Anne Fox from the Witte Memorial Museum was also on the project team. Many volunteers also donated their time and skills.\n\nBaker Cave was significant in the fact it was completely undisturbed at the start of the excavations. The top layers yielded debatage from the Early Archaic and the Late Archaic. The earliest deposits were late Paleo-Indian projectile points of the Plainview Golondrina type. Charcoal from the early deposits were radiocarbon dated to 8910 BP and 9030 BP. Also, a large cooking hearth feature was found. The bones in the hearth included snakes, rats, fish, rabbits, and other small animals, which showed that people used everything possibly available. These dietary indicators were discovered because flotation procedures were used, a very early example of the use of this technique. Roughly 10,000 bones were found during the excavation of Baker Cave. One-third of the bones were fish, while the other two-thirds were mammalian and reptilian. Many of the fragments were tiny and could not be assigned to a specific genus. Also, many of the bones showed charring, some of this occurred during cooking and sometimes it occurred when they were trying to get rid of the bones they no longer needed. Oddly enough, rabbit bones were almost always charred while rat bones were never charred, which could be due to cooking methods. The cave has an unblackened roof, which may be due to rapid spalling of the roofs or updrafting winds acting as a vent and carrying smoke out of the cave.\n\nIn the northernmost part of the shelter, on a large roof spall, a datum point was set up. From this datum point, the shelter was grided out into units that were wide.\n\nExcavation of the first unit was for test purposes. Depth of deposits, nature of occupational deposits, and the stratification patterns were determined so future units could be dug by strata. Deposits from this unit were screened through quarter-inch mesh with artifacts labeled by unit and level in which they were recovered. All flint, bone, shell, and wood were kept; only samples of vegetal matter were retained because the amount to keep was too large.\nUnit 2 was dug second, and lay just south of unit 1. Unit 3 began next because the landowners requested it. Soon after, unit 6 was opened up in the extreme rear of the cave, from the back corner of unit 1. Unit 6 was used to determine difference in usage from the back of the cave to the front.\n\nAt first, units were dug in , until strata and deposits became more clear and easy to follow. The strata were numbered according to a system that was used for the entire project. However, the strata were not continuous through all of the units, and often split into two strata in adjacent units. Because of this, some of the strata were grouped into zones. The researchers defined zones as \"a major division distinguishable from other soil units on the basis of rather distinct changes in soil color, content, and texture\". Five zones, plus the surface, were in the excavation.\n\nZone one (7500–6500 BCE), starting from the top, included two strata near the front of the shelter. It consisted of limestone that was thick. However, towards the back of the shelter, zone one contained a third stratum that was distinguished by a sterile line of deposits. Zone one contained some fire-cracked hearthstones, large flint debris, rodent bones, some cracked deer bone, and near the middle of the cave, late Paleo-Indian points were recovered. Units 6, 9, 10, and 14 in zone one, contained a higher level of charcoal, some fine and some in lumps.\n\nZone two (6500–4000 BCE) contained a greater variation of strata than zone one. Unit 1 only had one stratum, but units 7, 8, 9, 10, and 14 consisted of three strata and a lens in zone two, and unit 6 had two strata. The top portions of zone two do not show signs of fire, but they do show signs of decay, which would indicate moisture in the soil. Vegetal matter was a little less sparse, only mescal bean hulls and the hulls of pecans, walnuts, and acorns were found. Flint chips and charcoal were also found, but smaller in size than zone one. The rodent bones decreased throughout this zone, but the frequency of large animal bones, like deer, increased. Lithic artifacts also increased in zone two.\n\nZone three (4000–2500 BCE) had a marked lower level of moisture than zone two. Hearth rocks and small roof spalls are common in this zone. Small flint scrap, quids, prickly pear leaves, mescal beans, pecans, walnuts, and acorns were also present. Fibrous and lithic artifacts were found along with an increase in rodents and birds and a decrease in deer. Zone three also had a white ash lens in units 6, 9, and 10. The assumed thought of occurrence is a large fire. In unit 6, a second lens is present under the first, probably from higher heat intensity.\n\nZone four (2500–1000 BCE) has a very diverse set of strata. Unit 1 consisted of three strata with the lowest being intense fire-cracked rock and ash. The upper two strata have high charcoal levels and these layers feel greasy. Two strata make up units 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 14. Also, a lens was found in units 14, 10, and 9. This lens has ashy tan soil and a great deal of fibrous materials. The lithics in this zone are mainly fire-fractured, and deer, rodent, and fish bones have been found also. The soil in this zone is representative of localized fires. An overall increase in lithic, bone, and fibrous artifacts was noted in this zone.\n\nZone five (1000 BCE–1000 CE) contains three strata through all of the units and contains much fiber. Fiber artifacts were more numerous than the other artifacts found, such as fire-cracked rock, mesquite beans, mescal beans, leaves, pecans, walnuts, persimmon seeds, pods of sotol, sacahuista, and lechuguilla. Knotted fibers were commonly found along with woven fibers. In units 6, 8, and 10, charcoal was found; also in unit 6, a large fiber lens was noted.\n\nThe surface was tentatively dated 1000–1600 CE.\n\nDuring the excavations at Baker Cave, many features were found, including hearths. Most of the hearths were round and bowl-shaped. Their size ranged from on the long axis and on the short axis. Feature number one was found in unit 2 in the top layer of zone five. It was a mass of grass bound with twigs that measured 4.08 in thick, 9.67 in long and 7.0 in wide (10.4 cm × 24.6 cm × 18 cm). Feature number two was located under a boulder in unit 3 and zone four. It was an antler from a whitetail deer that looked to have been intentionally placed under the boulder. Feature three was an unused pit and 12 pear internodes that had been tied with split sacahuista. The pit measured . The pear internodes were stacked in layers and bundled northwest of the unused pit; they were located in zone five. Feature four contained 53 sotol or lechuguilla flower stalks and spread across units 6, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13. These stalks are believed to have been the base for a screen, which could have served as a backrest for occupants. Feature five was located in unit 9 and zone three. It was a small pit measuring 4.5 by 3.5 in and about 2.9 in deep (11 cm × 8.9 cm × 7.4 cm). It was also filled with flint and broken bifaces. Features six and seven were combined because they were both bowl-shaped pits in the same unit. They were mainly in unit 13 and spread into unit 9. Both pits were filled with fiber, and they seemingly were intended to be hearths. Lastly, feature number eight was the burial that was later discovered by Jim Baker. It was located behind unit 12, and the bones were about below the surface. The skull fragments were from an infant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35608259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35608259", "title": "Beveled rim bowl", "text": "Beveled rim bowl\n\nBeveled rim bowls are small, undecorated, mass-produced clay bowls most common in the 4th millennium B.C. They constitute roughly three quarters of all ceramics found in Uruk culture sites, are therefore a unique and reliable indicator of the presence of the Uruk culture in ancient Mesopotamia.\n\nBeveled rim bowls are generally uniform in size standing roughly 10 cm tall with the mouth of the bowl being approximately 18 cm in diameter. The sides of the bowls have a straight steep angle down to a very defined base usually 9 cm in diameter. The bowls are made of low fired clay and have relatively thick walls compared to other forms of pottery of the time—making them surprisingly robust. The most unusual aspects of beveled rim bowls are that they are undecorated and found discarded in large quantities.\n\nWhile the exact method for production of beveled rim bowls is unknown, the most widely accepted theory is the use of a mold. A lesser accepted theory is that the bowls were made by hand. Archeologists replicating beveled rim bowls have found it considerably difficult to achieve the straight sides and well defined base while only using their hands. The use of a mold has been found to be a significant advantage when replicating the bowls. The large numbers of beveled rim bowls found (often in a single site) seem to support the mold theory because mass production with a mold is far more feasible than making them by hand. A debate exists among advocates of the mold theory. Most impose the use of a mobile mold that could be made of a variety of materials including wood, metal, stone or even another beveled rim bowl. Others suggest that craftsmen would have used a ground mold wherein the bowls were formed in a conical depression created in the ground.\n\nBeveled rim bowls are widely thought to be used for measurement of barley and oil as rations. The rations would be given as payment to laborers for services rendered. This idea is supported by the resemblance of the beveled rim bowls to the cuneiform sign for ration (NINDA). It is also supported by the fact that the bowls are often found whole and in large piles as if they were disposable. The bowls would have been used for rationing once or twice and then discarded in a central location. An alternate theory is that the bowls were used for baking bread, which also could have been rationed in its container.\n\nBeveled rim bowls originated in the city state of Uruk in the mid-fourth millennium B.C. As the Uruk culture expanded so did the production and use of these bowls. According to Marc Van De Mieroop, “Examples have been excavated in the Zagros mountains (e.g., Godin Tepe, Choga Gavaneh), in northern (e.g., Tepe, Ozbeki, Tepe Sialk), central (e.g., Tepe Yahiya), and southern Iran (e.g., Nurabad). They were even found on the modern coast of Pakistan near the Gulf of Oman (Miri Qalat).”\n\nRoughly 75% of all ceramics found with Uruk culture sites are bevel-rimmed bowls, so two major aspects make them historically significant to archeologists. First, they are one of the earliest signs of mass production of a single product in history. Second, their suspected use as a form of payment to workers is a milestone in history because there is no evidence of rationed payments before beveled rim bowls.\n"}
{"id": "21464216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21464216", "title": "Canada–United States Safe Third Country Agreement", "text": "Canada–United States Safe Third Country Agreement\n\nThe Canada–United States Safe Third Country Agreement, officially the Agreement between the Government of Canada and the Government of the United States of America for cooperation in the examination of refugee status claims from nationals of third countries, is a treaty between the governments of Canada and the United States to better manage the flow of refugee claimants at the shared land border.\n\nUnder the agreement persons seeking refugee status must make their claim in the first country they arrive in, either the United States or Canada, unless they qualify for an exception. For example, refugee claimants who are citizens of a country other than the United States that arrive from the United States at the Canada–United States land border can only pursue their refugee claims in Canada if they meet an exception under the Safe Third Country Agreement.\n\nThe agreement was signed on December 5, 2002 in Washington, D.C. by Bertin Côté (Deputy Head of Mission, Embassy of Canada) and Arthur E. Dewey (Assistant Secretary of State for Population, Refugees, and Migration, United States Department of State). It entered into force on December 29, 2004.\n\nThe Safe Third Country Agreement applies to refugee claimants who are seeking entry to Canada or the United States at Canada-United States land border crossings (including by train). It also applies at airports if a person seeking refugee protection in one country was determined not to be a refugee in the other, and is in transit through the other country as part of their deportation. For example, a refugee claimant in Canada who has been determined not to be a refugee in the United States, has been ordered deported from the United States, and is in transit through a Canadian airport as part of their removal from the United States.\n\nExceptions to the Safe Third Country Agreement are defined as four types: family member exceptions, unaccompanied minors exception, document holder exceptions, and public interest exceptions.\n\nIn addition to meeting the criteria for an exception under the agreement, refugee claimants must still meet all other eligibility criteria of the relevant immigration legislation for the country they are claiming status in.\n\nRefugee claimants who enter Canada at official crossings usually are sent back to the US. However if they cross at locations in between designated ports of entry, they would not be sent back and their claims will be heard. Many immigration experts consider this to be a loophole within the agreement. \n\nShortly after inauguration, U.S. President Donald Trump signed Executive Order 13769, which suspended the United States Refugee Admissions Program and banned travel from seven African and Middle Eastern countries; Executive Order 13768, which revoked eligibility for federal funding for sanctuary jurisdictions; and Executive Order 13767, which directed that a wall be built along the Mexico–United States border.\n\nIn response to Executive Order 13769, immigrant and civil rights advocacy groups in Canada called for the federal government to suspend the Safe Third Country Agreement. These groups included Amnesty International, the Canadian Civil Liberties Association, the Association québécoise des avocats et avocates en droit de l'immigration, the British Columbia Civil Liberties Association, the Canadian Association of Refugee Lawyers, the Canadian Council for Refugees, and a group of 200 law professors from universities across Canada.\n\nOn January 30, 2017, Jenny Kwan (New Democratic Party critic for Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship) proposed an emergency debate on \"President Trump's ban on immigration and travel from seven countries in the Middle East and North Africa\".\n\nDuring the debate, the New Democratic Party called on the government to immediately suspend the Safe Third Country Agreement, citing that \"Canada can no longer have confidence that the American refugee system is providing a safe haven for those who face persecution\". The Official Opposition Conservative Party of Canada stated that they would not oppose a suspension of the agreement, while the Green Party of Canada voiced support for suspending the agreement.\n\nAhmed Hussen, speaking as Canada's Minister of Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship, claimed that the conditions of the Safe Third Country Agreement continued to be met. The governing Liberal Party of Canada did not communicate any plans or intentions to suspend the agreement.\n\nSafe third country agreements are not explicitly mentioned in the 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees or the 1967 Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees. Instead, their legality is derived from Article 31 of the convention, which states that a refugee should not be punished for illegally entering a country if they are arriving directly from a country where they were under threat. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) itself has cautioned against interpreting safe third country agreements too broadly, though it acknowledges that they may be acceptable in some circumstances. Such ambiguities have led some legal professionals in Canada to question the legality of the Canada–United States Safe Third Country Agreement.\n\nAs of February 2017, increasing numbers of refugee claimants began to cross the Canadian border at locations other than official border checkpoints. This is in order to avoid the effects of the agreement, any refugees presenting at a border crossing would be automatically turned back to the United States under the STCA provisions. In some cases, these refugees have received amputations due to frostbite and concerns have been raised that some refugees may freeze to death on their way across the border.\n\nJulie Taub, an immigration and refugee lawyer, claims that, since the introduction of the agreement in late 2004, the Canada Border Services Agency has lost its capacity and would be \"overwhelmed\" if the agreement were repealed.\n\nSince the beginning of January 2017 and up until the end of March 2018, the RCMP have intercepted 25,645 people crossing the border into Canada irregularly. Public Safety Canada estimates another 2,500 came across in April 2018 for a total at just over 28,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "22064649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22064649", "title": "Commission on Money and Credit", "text": "Commission on Money and Credit\n\nA national Commission on Money and Credit (CMC) was established November 21, 1957, by Donald K. David, Chairman of the Committee for Economic Development (CED) to make the first extensive investigation of the U.S. monetary system since the Aldrich Commission of 1908-1911. The report of the Commission was published in June 1961 and it was subsequently disbanded.\n\nThe Commission was planned to make the first extensive investigation of the U.S. monetary system since the Aldrich Commission of 1908–1911. The Commission on Money and Credit would evaluate whether the existing structure of the U.S. financial system and the regulations on various financial institutions were adequate to cope with the anticipated future needs of the U.S. economy.\n\nThe Commission on Money and Credit was intended to consist of nine to eighteen members drawn from “business, labor, agriculture, and education, and from fields of research and administration”. Ten prominent individuals in academia, social science research, and economics, would advise Mr. David on the selection of the members of the Commission.\n\nHyman P. Minsky, Associate Professor of Economics, The University of California, Berkeley, consulted with the Commission, for which he co-authored \"Private Capital Markets; A Series Of Research Studies Prepared For The Commission On Money And Credit\" in 1964.\n\nPresident John F. Kennedy made the following remarks upon receiving the report of The Commission on Money and Credit, in a speech on June 19, 1961, from the Oval Office of the White House, Washington, D.C.:\n\n"}
{"id": "6468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6468", "title": "Country Liberal Party", "text": "Country Liberal Party\n\nThe Country Liberal Party (CLP), officially the Country Liberals (Northern Territory), is a liberal conservative political party in Australia founded in 1974, which operates solely in the Northern Territory.\n\nThe CLP first fielded candidates at the 1975 federal election, winning one seat in the Senate and the non-voting seat in the House of Representatives. Since 1979, the CLP has been formally affiliated with both the federal Liberal Party of Australia and the National Party of Australia (previously the Country Party and National Country Party). The Liberal Party, National Party, Liberal National Party of Queensland, and CLP form the Coalition of Australian centre-right parties, with the CLP alone contesting seats for the Coalition in the Northern Territory. The CLP has full voting rights within the National Party, and observer status with the Liberal Party. Currently, the CLP has one representative in federal parliament, Senator Nigel Scullion, who also serves as the Senate leader of the National Party.\n\nThe CLP dominated the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly from its establishment in 1974 until the 2001 general election, when the CLP lost government winning only 10 of the 25 seats, and was reduced further to four parliamentary members at the 2005 election. At the 2008 election it increased its numbers, winning 11 seats.\n\nThe CLP returned to office following the 2012 election, winning 16 of 25 seats, and leader Terry Mills became Chief Minister of the Northern Territory. Less than a year later, Mills was replaced as Chief Minister and CLP leader by Adam Giles at the 2013 CLP leadership ballot on 13 March. Giles was the first indigenous Australian to lead a state or territory government in Australia. Giles was defeated at the 2015 CLP leadership ballot but managed to survive in the aftermath. Multiple defections saw the CLP reduced to minority government a few months later. At the 27 August 2016 Territory election, the CLP was resoundingly defeated, winning just two of 25 seats. Gary Higgins became CLP leader and opposition leader on 2 September, with Lia Finocchiaro as his deputy.\n\nThe Territory Country Party members first contested the 1919 federal election, with a newly established federal Country Party contesting the 1922 federal election. The 1922 election saw the main opposition party to the Australian Labor Party, the Nationalist Party of Australia deprived of a majority, and were required to form a coalition in order to command a majority on the floor of parliament. The price for such support was the resignation of Nationalist (ex-Labor) Prime Minister, Billy Hughes, who was replaced by Stanley Bruce.\n\nIn 1922, the federal Division of Northern Territory was created, with one non-voting Member in the House of Representatives. Harold George Nelson was the inaugural member serving between 16 December 1922 and 15 September 1934. He was elected as an Independent but later joined the Australian Labor Party (ALP). Between 15 September 1934 and 10 December 1949 the Division of Northern Territory was held by Adair Blain, an independent member. Between 10 December 1949 and 31 October 1966 the Division was held by Jock Nelson, a member of the ALP. The Territory seat was won by the Country Party's Sam Calder at the 1966 federal election, who held the seat from 26 November 1966 to 19 September 1980.\n\nIn 1966, the Country Party was established in the Northern Territory, while the Liberal Party was a small party. In recognition of this, the local Liberals supported the Country Party's Calder for the sole NT seat from 1969 to 1972. An alliance had formed, primarily against the conservatives' main opponent, the ALP. After the gradual extension of limited voting rights, in 1968 the federal Coalition government gave the Member for Northern Territory full voting rights.\n\nAfter the 1974 federal election and the subsequent Joint Sitting of parliament, legislation was passed to give the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory representation in the Australian Senate, with two senators being elected.\n\nThe Whitlam Government passed legislation in 1974 to establish a fully elected unicameral Northern Territory Legislative Assembly to replace the previous partly elected Northern Territory Legislative Council, which had been in existence since 1947. The term of the Legislative Assembly was four years. Initially, the Legislative Assembly consisted of 19 members, which was increased in 1982 to 25 members, the present number. The Northern Territory was granted self-government in 1978.\n\nFollowing the creation of the Legislative Assembly in 1974, the Territory's branches of the Country and Liberal parties merged to form the \"Country Liberal Party\" (CLP) to field candidates at the 1974 general election for the Legislative Assembly, going on to win 17 out of 19 seats. Calder was largely responsible for the push to unite the non-Labor forces in the Territory.\n\nThe CLP fielded candidates at the 1975 federal election, winning one seat each in the Senate and in the House of Representatives. Since 1979, the CLP has been formally affiliated with both the federal National (previously the Country Party and National Country Party) and Liberal parties. The CLP contests seats for the Coalition in the Northern Territory rather than the Liberal or National parties. The CLP has full voting rights within the National Party, and observer status with the Liberal Party.\n\nThe CLP governed the Northern Territory from 1974 until the 2001 election. During this time, it never faced more than nine opposition members. Indeed, the CLP's dominance was so absolute that its internal politics were seen as a bigger threat than any opposition party. This was especially pronounced in the mid-1980s, when a series of party-room coups resulted in the Territory having three Chief Ministers in four years.\n\nAt the 2001 election the Australian Labor Party won government by one seat, ending 27 years of CLP government. The loss marked a major turning point in Northern Territory politics, a result which was exacerbated when, at the 2005 election, the ALP won the second-largest majority government in the history of the Territory, reducing the once-dominant party to just four members in the Legislative Assembly. This result was only outdone by the 1974 election, in which the CLP faced only two independents as opposition. The CLP even lost two seats in Palmerston, an area where the ALP had never come close to winning any seats before.\n\nIn the 2001 federal election, the CLP won the newly formed seat of Solomon, based on Darwin/Palmerston, in the House of Representatives.\nIn the 2004 federal election, the CLP held one seat in the House of Representatives, and one seat in the Senate. The CLP lost its federal lower house in the 2007 federal election, but regained it when Palmerston deputy mayor Natasha Griggs won back Solomon for the CLP. She sat with the Liberals in the House.\n\nThe 2008 election saw the CLP recover from the severe loss it suffered three years earlier, increasing its representation from four to 11 members. Following the 2011 decision of ALP-turned-independent member Alison Anderson to join the CLP, this increased to CLP's representation to 12 in the Assembly, leaving the incumbent Henderson Government to govern in minority with the support of Independent MP Gerry Wood.\n\nHistorically, the CLP has been particularly dominant in the Territory's two major cities, Darwin/Palmerston and Alice Springs. However, in recent years the ALP has pulled even with the CLP in the Darwin area; indeed, its 2001 victory was fueled by an unexpected swing in Darwin.\n\nThe CLP under the leadership of Terry Mills returned to power in the 2012 election with 16 of 25 seats, defeating the incumbent Labor Government led by Paul Henderson. In the lead up to the Territory election, CLP Senator Nigel Scullion sharply criticised the Federal Labor Government for its suspension of the live cattle trade to Indonesia - an economic mainstay of the territory.\n\nThe election victory ended 11 years of ALP rule in the Northern Territory. The victory was also notable for the support it achieved from indigenous people in pastoral and remote electorates. Large swings were achieved in remote Territory electorates (where the indigenous population comprised around two-thirds of voters) and a total of five Aboriginal CLP candidates won election to the Assembly. Among the indigenous candidates elected were high-profile Aboriginal activist Bess Price and former ALP member Alison Anderson. Anderson was appointed Minister for Indigenous Advancement. In a nationally reported speech in November 2012, Anderson condemned welfare dependency and a culture of entitlement in her first ministerial statement on the status of Aboriginal communities in the Territory and said the CLP would focus on improving education and on helping create real jobs for indigenous people.\n\nAdam Giles replaced Mills as Chief Minister of the Northern Territory and party leader at the 2013 CLP leadership ballot on 13 March while Mills was on a trade mission in Japan. Giles was sworn in as Chief Minister on 14 March, becoming the first indigenous head of government of an Australian state or territory.\n\nWhen the CLP introduced mandatory alcohol rehabilitation for recidivist problem drinkers to replace a banned drinker register, Giles dismissed critics of the policy as \"lefty welfare-orientated people\".\n\nWillem Westra van Holthe challenged Giles at the 2015 CLP leadership ballot on 2 February and was elected leader by the party room in a late night vote conducted by phone. However, Giles refused to resign as Chief Minister following the vote. On 3 February, \"ABC News\" reported that officials were preparing an instrument for Giles' removal by the Administrator. The swearing-in of Westra van Holthe, which had been scheduled for 11:00 local time (01:30 UTC), was delayed. After a meeting of the parliamentary wing of the CLP, Giles announced that he would remain as party leader and Chief Minister, and that Westra van Holthe would be his deputy.\n\nJust one opinion poll has been released since the 2012 election – conducted by ReachTEL and commissioned by The Australian which surveyed 1036 residents via robocall on the afternoon of Sunday 1 March 2015 across all 18 electorates in Darwin, Palmerston and Alice Springs – which indicated a landslide 17.6% two-party swing against the incumbent CLP government since the last election.\n\nAfter four defections during the parliamentary term, the CLP was reduced to minority government by July 2015. Giles raised the possibility of an early election on 20 July stating that he would \"love\" to call a snap poll, but that it was \"pretty much impossible to do\". Crossbenchers dismissed the notion of voting against a confidence motion to bring down the government.\n\nTerritory government legislation passed in February 2016 changed the voting method of single-member electorates from full-preferential voting to optional preferential voting ahead of the 2016 territory election held on 27 August.\n\nFederally, a MediaReach seat-level opinion poll of 513 voters in the seat of Solomon conducted 22−23 June ahead of the 2016 federal election held on 2 July surprisingly found Labor candidate Luke Gosling heavily leading two-term CLP incumbent Natasha Griggs 61–39 on the two-party vote from a large 12.4 percent swing. The CLP lost Solomon to Labor at the election, with Gosling defeating Griggs 56–44 on the two-party vote from a 7.4 percent swing.\n\nAt the 27 August Territory election, the CLP was swept from power in a massive Labor landslide, suffering easily the worst defeat of a sitting government in Territory history. The party not only lost all of the bush seats it picked up in 2012, but was all but shut out of Darwin/Palmerston, winning only one seat there. All told, the CLP only won two seats, easily its worst showing in an election. Giles himself lost his own seat, becoming the second Majority Leader/Chief Minister to lose his own seat. Even before Giles' defeat was confirmed, second-term MP Gary Higgins—the only surviving member of the Giles cabinet—was named the party's new leader, with Lia Finocchiaro as his deputy.\n\nBy the spring of 2016, the party website had turned into a redirect to its Facebook page. However, a full site was rolled back out in 2018.\n\nThe CLP stands for office in the Northern Territory Assembly and Federal Parliament of Australia and primarily concerns itself with representing Territory interests. It is a regionally based party, that has parliamentary representation in both the Federal Parliament and at the Territory level.\n\nThe CLP competes against the Australian Labor Party (Northern Territory Branch) (the local branch of Australia's social-democratic party). It is closely affiliated with, but is independent from the Liberal Party of Australia (a mainly urban, pro-private enterprise party comprising mainly liberal membership) and the National Party of Australia (a conservative-liberal agrarian and regional interests party).\n\nThe party promotes traditional Liberal Party values such as individualism and private enterprise, and what it describes as \"progressive\" political policy such as full statehood for the Northern Territory.\n\nBranch delegates and members of the party's Central Council attend the Annual Conference of the Country Liberal Party to decide the party's platform. The Central Council is composed of the party's office bearers, its leaders from the Territory Assembly and the Federal Parliament and representatives of party branches.\n\nThe Annual Conference of the Country Liberal Party, attended by branch delegates and members of the party's Central Council, decides matters relating to the party's platform and philosophy. The Central Council administers the party and makes decisions on pre-selections. It is composed of the party's office bearers, its leaders in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, members in the Federal Parliament, and representation from each of the party's branches.\n\nThe CLP president has full voting rights with the National Party and observer status with the Liberal Party. Both the Liberals and Nationals receive Country Liberal delegations at their conventions. After federal elections, the CLP directs its federal members and senators as to which of the two other parties they should sit with in the parliamentary chamber. In practice, CLP House members usually sit with the Liberals, while CLP Senators sit with the Nationals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9631981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9631981", "title": "David Chubinashvili", "text": "David Chubinashvili\n\nDavid Chubinashvili (), otherwise known as David Yesseevich Chubinov (or Tchoubinoff, ) by the Russified form of his name (September 26, 1814 – June 5, 1891) was a Georgian lexicographer, linguist and scholar of old Georgian literature.\n\nHaving graduated from the University of St. Petersburg in 1839, he later lectured there on Georgian language, rising to the rank of professor. He helped establish the Department of Georgian Language and Literature and chaired it from 1855 to 1871. He was elected to the Imperial Geographic and Imperial Archaeological Societies and participated in the Tbilisi-based Society for the Spreading of Literacy Among Georgians (SSLG). He wrote literary criticism for the Russian and Georgian press, authored several works on Georgian language and literature, and published Shota Rustaveli and other classics of old Georgian literature. Chubinov was twice awarded Demidov Prize for compiling Georgian-Russian-French and Russian-Georgian dictionaries in 1840 and 1846 respectively. He bequeathed his rich collection of Georgian manuscripts to the SSLG.\n\n"}
{"id": "57780369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57780369", "title": "Descartes' daughter", "text": "Descartes' daughter\n\nDescartes' daughter is an apocryphal automaton which was said to have been constructed in the form of René Descartes' real daughter, Francine Descartes.\n"}
{"id": "4970160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4970160", "title": "Diseworth", "text": "Diseworth\n\nDiseworth is a village in the English county of Leicestershire. It is south of East Midlands Airport and off Junction 23A of the M1 motorway. \n\nA village of some 670 residents, it is located 14 km to the north-west of Loughborough and 2.5 km to the south-east of Castle Donington. At the 2011 census the population was included in the civil parish of Long Watton and Diseworth. The settlement is in the Parish of Long Whatton and Diseworth, and lies within an undulating agricultural landscape and occupies a shallow valley created by the Diseworth Brook as it flows eastwards before becoming Long Whatton Brook and proceeding to its confluence with the River Soar.\nThe four principal streets of the village - Grimes Gate, Hall Gate, Clements Gate and Lady Gate - meet at The Cross; a staggered crossroads close to the Church of St Michael's and All Angels. Page Lane runs parallel to Lady Gate. The Green running along the southern edge of the settlement gives access into Hall Gate - via The Bowley -and into Lady Gate. Diseworth Brook flows to the south of Hall Gate and is joined by tributaries to the east of Shakespear Close and near Town End.\n\nThe famous astrologer and occultist, William Lilly was born in Diseworth in 1602.\n\nThe Diseworth Heritage Trust is a charitable trust, registered in the UK (No. 1112223) that is dedicated to preserving the historical and architectural heritage of the village of Diseworth in Leicestershire, England, and its surrounding area, from its earliest origins to the present. The Trust was responsible for the restoration of the redundant Baptist Chapel building in Diseworth (originally built in 1752, and therefore one of the oldest in the county), as a local Heritage centre, which will provide a variety of facilities for education and entertainment. This was made possible by sponsorship from local and national organisations, including the Heritage Lottery Fund. The Trust welcomes members with a general interest in local history, as well as those directly associated with the village. The Trust works closely with the Diseworth and Long Whatton History Societies, and other organisations to develop interest in local history.\n\n"}
{"id": "21350921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21350921", "title": "Dunwich", "text": "Dunwich\n\nDunwich is a village and civil parish in Suffolk, England. It is in the Suffolk Coast and Heaths AONB around north-east of London, south of Southwold and north of Leiston, on the North Sea coast.\n\nIn the Anglo-Saxon period, Dunwich was the capital of the Kingdom of the East Angles, but the harbour and most of the town have since disappeared due to coastal erosion. At its height it was an international port similar in size to 14th century London. Its decline began in 1286 when a storm surge hit the East Anglian coast followed by a great storm in 1287 and another great storm also in 1287, and it was eventually shrank to the village it is today. Dunwich is possibly connected with the lost Anglo-Saxon placename \"Dommoc\".\n\nThe population of the civil parish at the 2001 census was 84, which increased to 183 according to the 2011 Census, though the area used by the Office of National Statistics for 2011 also includes part of the civil parish of Westleton. There is no parish council; instead there is a parish meeting.\n\nSince the 15th century, Dunwich has frequently been identified with Dommoc – the original seat of the Anglo-Saxon bishops of the Kingdom of East Anglia established by Sigeberht of East Anglia for Saint Felix in c. 629–31. Dommoc was the seat of the bishops of Dommoc until around 870, when the East Anglian kingdom was taken over by the initially pagan Danes. Years later, antiquarians would even describe Dunwich as being the \"former capital of East Anglia\". However, many historians now prefer to locate Dommoc at Walton Castle, which was the site of a Saxon shore fort.\n\nThe Domesday Book of 1086 describes it as possessing three churches. At this time it had an estimated population of 3000.\n\nOn 1 January 1286, a storm surge reached the east edge of the town and destroyed buildings in it. Before that, most recorded damage to Dunwich was loss of land and damage to the harbour.\n\nThis was followed by two further surges the next year, the South England flood of February 1287 and St. Lucia's flood in December. A fierce storm in 1328 also swept away the entire village of Newton, a few miles up the coast. Another large storm in 1347 swept some 400 houses into the sea. The Grote Mandrenke around 16 January 1362 finally destroyed much of the remainder of the town.\nMost of the buildings that were present in the 13th century have disappeared, including all eight churches, and Dunwich is now a small coastal \"village\", though retaining its status as a town. The remains of a 13th-century Franciscan priory (Greyfriars) and the Leper Hospital of St James can still be seen. A popular local legend says that, at certain tides, church bells can still be heard from beneath the waves.\n\nThe loss of \"a busy port to ... 14th century storms that swept whole parishes into the sea\" is an urban myth. It appears that the port developed as a sheltered harbour where the Dunwich River entered the North Sea. Coastal processes including storms caused the river to shift its exit north to Walberswick, at the River Blyth. The town of Dunwich lost its \"raison d'etre\" and was largely abandoned. Sea defences were not maintained and coastal erosion progressively invaded the town.\n\nAs a legacy of its previous significance, the parliamentary constituency of Dunwich retained the right to send two members to Parliament until the Reform Act 1832 and was one of Britain's most notorious rotten boroughs.\n\nBy the mid-19th century, the population had dwindled to 237 inhabitants and Dunwich was described as a \"decayed and disfranchised borough\". A new church, St James, was built in 1832 after the abandonment of the last of the old churches, All Saints', which had been without a rector since 1755. All Saints' Church fell into the sea between 1904 and 1919, the last major portion of the tower succumbing on 12 November 1919. In 2005 historian Stuart Bacon stated that recent low tides had shown that shipbuilding had previously occurred in the town.\n\nThe \"Dark Heart of Dunwich\" is piece of a Suffolk folklore, the origins of which appear to lie in the 12th century. The legend tells of how Eva, a Dunwich maiden due to be married to the son of a local landowner, fell instead for a good-looking local cad, who had sex with her and then deserted her, running off to sea. After waiting in vain for her lost love to return, she cut out her heart and hurled it into the sea. However, according to the legend, she was unable to die, and still haunts the area, particularly around the constantly shifting beach. The heart itself, believed to be similar in appearance to a wooden heart, is believed to wash up occasionally, and bring great misfortune onto anyone who picks it up and keeps it.\n\nThe Dunwich 2008 project funded by English Heritage and the Esmée Fairbairn Foundation was intended to collate all reliable historic mapped data on the same co-ordinate system and combine this with aerial photography and an underwater survey. New digital maps were produced by Prof. David Sear of Southampton University, marine archaeologist Stuart Bacon and the Geodata Institute. The survey also used multibeam and sidescan sonar to map the seafloor across the entire area of the town. These surveys identified a series of ruins which were confirmed by divers who recovered stones with lime mortar still attached. The lime mortar matched nearly perfectly with medieval mortar in existing churches on the coast. In 2009 Wessex Archaeology working with Professor Sear, captured the highest resolution sidescan images of the town site including the ruins found in 2008. Further work in 2010 with BBC Oceans and the BBC One Show used novel acoustic imaging cameras (DIDSON) to film the ruins through the turbid water. These clearly showed the jumble of ruined blocks and worked stone associated with medieval church and chapel sites. A large survey and updating of the mapped data was commissioned by English Heritage in 2011 and reported in 2012. This compiled all previous survey data and enhanced the historical map and coastal pilot charts for the site. The results have produced the most comprehensive survey of the Dunwich town site – the largest medieval underwater site in Europe. Data from these surveys including maps and images explaining the different technologies are displayed in Dunwich Museum which is accredited by the Museum Archives Libraries Council. Details of Dunwich's 800-year battle to protect against coastal erosion are also displayed in the museum and it is hoped more work will be done in future. A database of references to Dunwich \"designed to aid academic researchers, family historians and students\" is available online.\n\nIn June 2011, at the invitation of Prof David Sear and the Dunwich Town Trust the Anglo-Saxon and medieval archaeology of Dunwich was the subject of an episode of archaeological television programme \"Time Team\".\n\nFurther work to explore new sites using DIDSON and diver surveys and a campaign of land based archaeology is scheduled for 2013–15 funded by the \"Touching the Tide\" Heritage Lottery Fund Landscape Partnership Scheme. This work hopes to confirm the date of the town ditches and roads and explore the record of environmental change in the marsh sediments. Altogether this work has identified the ruins of St Peter's and St Nicholas's churches, a chapel most probably St Katherine's, and ruins associated with Blackfriars friary and the town hall. The location of the Knight's Templar Church and All Saints' Church are known from the digital mapping but remain buried beneath an inner sandbank. The early town is buried under between 1 and of sand to the east of the ruins found by Bacon and these later surveys. As a result, it was found that Dunwich had been a substantial port in Saxon times.\n\n\n\nDuring the Second World War, \"RAF Dunwich\" was one of the Chain Home Low stations which provided low-level radar cover for the central East Anglian coast.\n\nThe annual Dunwich Dynamo through-the-night bicycle ride ends on Dunwich beach.\n\nAl Stewart's 1993 song \"The Coldest Winter in Memory\" includes the lines\n\nThe last track on Brian Eno's 1982 album \"\" is called \"Dunwich Beach, Autumn, 1960.\" Eno was born in Woodbridge, Suffolk, about 23 miles from Dunwich.\n\nBritish Progressive Rock band The Future Kings of England recorded a track called Dunwich for their 2007 album \"The fate of old mother Orvis\". The cover of the album features an old photo of Dunwich.\n\nNorwegian science fiction and fantasy author Øyvind Myhre in 1991 published the novel \"Mørke over Dunwich\" (Darkness over Dunwich), set in the village. Myhre connects the name of the village to H.P. Lovecraft's story The Dunwich Horror (set in the US) and draws on the Cthulhu mythos, primarily the story The Shadow over Innsmouth, for his own horror story.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12265707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12265707", "title": "East Tennessee Historical Society", "text": "East Tennessee Historical Society\n\nThe East Tennessee Historical Society (ETHS), headquartered in Knoxville, Tennessee, United States, is a non-profit organization dedicated to the study of East Tennessee history, the preservation of historically significant artifacts, and educating the citizens of Tennessee. The Society also operates a museum and museum shop in the East Tennessee History Center on Gay Street in downtown Knoxville. The East Tennessee Historical Society was established in 1834, only 38 years after the establishment of the state of Tennessee, to record the history of the development and settlement of the area.\n\nThe East Tennessee Historical and Antiquarian Society was founded by early Tennessee historian J. G. M. Ramsey (1797–1884), who was concerned that many of the state's early pioneers were dying off, and sought to archive their papers and correspondence. The first meeting of the Society was held on May 5, 1834. East Tennessee College president William B. Reese was elected as the first president. The executive committee included Ramsey's brother-in-law John Hervey Crozier and stepbrother Thomas William Humes. Ramsey, as the Society's recording secretary, gradually acquired a sizeable collection of papers and correspondence from early Tennesseans such as William Blount, John Sevier, Samuel Wear, Alexander Outlaw, and James Hubbert. The \"Antiquarian\" had been dropped from the Society's name by 1852.\n\nRamsey kept the Society's archives at his plantation, Mecklenburg, just east of Knoxville. During the Civil War, Ramsey was a very vocal Confederate and secessionist, and was forced to flee when the Union Army occupied Knoxville in 1863, leaving behind his library and the Society's archives. An arsonist (allegedly hired by Ramsey's rival, William \"Parson\" Brownlow) burned Mecklenburg, effectively destroying the archives. By the end of the war, the Society had largely disintegrated.\n\nIn January 1883, several Confederate veterans, led by Moses White and William Henderson (with some assistance from the aging Ramsey and Crozier), revived the East Tennessee Historical Society as an auxiliary of the Southern Historical Association. An 1885 ad for the group shows U.T. professor William Gibbs McAdoo as president and future Knoxville mayor Samuel G. Heiskell as vice president. Other members included newspaper editor William Rule and scholar Eben Alexander. The Society hosted lectures on Fort Loudoun, Irish nationalist John Mitchel, and the State of Franklin, and featured speakers such as Fitzhugh Lee. The Society also admitted women for the first time. By the end of the century, however, this second incarnation of the ETHS was no longer active.\n\nIn December 1924, several Knoxville-area educators and librarians met at the Lawson McGhee Library to discuss reviving the ETHS. The first official meeting of the new Society took place on January 16, 1925. Charter members included U.T. professor Philip Hamer, Lawson McGhee librarian Mary U. Rothrock, and U.T. dean (and later president) James Hoskins. The Calvin M. McClung Collection offered the Society use of its office space and staff. The Society began publishing its annual scholarly journal in 1929, and hosted lectures by historians Stanley J. Folmsbee and Samuel Cole Williams. The Society published its first book, Folmsbee's \"Sectionalism and Internal Improvements in Tennessee\", in 1939.\n\nIn 1946, the Society published a comprehensive history of Knox County, \"The French Broad-Holston Country\", as part of the state's sequicentennial celebrations. The book, edited by Rothrock, included a history of the county written by Folmsbee, and contributions by Harvey Broome and several other ETHS members. A revised edition was published in 1972.\n\nIn 1976, the Society published a comprehensive history of Knoxville, entitled, \"Heart of the Valley: A History of Knoxville, Tennessee\". This book was edited by Lucile Deaderick, and included a general history of the city by William MacArthur. MacArthur's history was republished in the 1982 book, \"Knoxville: Crossroads of the New South\", which included several hundred photographs from the McClung Collection.\n\nIn the late 1970s, Knox County acquired the Old Customs House (which had been used by the Tennessee Valley Authority prior to the construction of the TVA Towers), and allotted the space to the McClung Collection and the Knox County Archives. The ETHS set up its headquarters on the building's second floor, and hired a professional staff. During the 1980s, under the directorship of Charles Faulkner Bryan and Mark Wetherington, membership virtually doubled. During the tenure of W. Todd Groce as executive director (1990-1995), the ETHS renamed its scholarly publication as the \"Journal of East Tennessee History\", created the First Families of Tennessee project in 1992, and established the Museum of East Tennessee History in 1993.\n\nSince 1929, the Society has published an annual collection of scholarly essays on the history and culture of East Tennessee. Initially known simply as the Society's \"Publications\", this work has been published as the \"Journal of East Tennessee History\" since 1990. The journal covers topics on a wide range of historical and cultural issues related to East Tennessee and the Southern Appalachian region, including the American Civil War, the early settlement of East Tennessee, post-Civil War Reconstruction, the Great Depression, World War I and World War II, as well as more recent events such as the 1982 World's Fair. The Society also publishes two other magazine format titles, the tri-annual \"Tennessee Ancestors\" and the quarterly newsletter \"Newsline\".\n\n\n\nThe headquarters of the East Tennessee Historical Society are located in the East Tennessee History Center, in the Old Customs House building in downtown Knoxville, which is owned by Knox County. This building, which is depicted in the ETHS logo, is home to the Historical Society's Museum of East Tennessee History, which depicts cultural and historical exhibits from around the region. Displays include items owned by early Tennesseans such as Davy Crockett and John Sevier, memorabilia from events such as the Appalachian expositions of 1910 and 1911, artifacts from the Battle of Fort Sanders, a complete trolley car, a drugstore display, and early country music instruments and memorabilia. The Center also displays works by regional artists such as Lloyd Branson, Adelia Armstrong Lutz, Catherine Wiley, and Joseph Knaffl.\n\nThe History Center also contains the Knox County Archives and the Calvin M. McClung Collection of the Knox County Public Libraries. The McClung Collection is one of the preeminent genealogical research facilities in the Southeastern United States. Free lectures and courses designed to encourage individuals to research their family histories as well as educate them in the proper way to conduct such research are given on a regular basis.\n\nThe East Tennessee Historical Society maintains two honorary organizations for genealogical research. The First Families of Tennessee is an organization of individuals who are able to trace their ancestry to families residing in the area that became Tennessee prior to statehood. The Civil War Families of Tennessee is an organization of individuals whose ancestors fought in the American Civil War on either side.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16093772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16093772", "title": "Endurance art", "text": "Endurance art\n\nEndurance art is a kind of performance art involving some form of hardship, such as pain, solitude or exhaustion. Performances that focus on the passage of long periods of time are also known as durational art or durational performances.\n\nWriter Michael Fallon traces the genre to the work of Chris Burden in California in the 1970s. Burden spent five days in a locker in \"Five-Day Locker Piece\" (1971), had himself shot in \"Shoot\" (1971), and lived for 22 days in a bed in an art gallery in \"Bed Piece\" (1972).\n\nOther examples of endurance art include Tehching Hsieh's \"One Year Performance 1980–1981 (Time Clock Piece)\", in which for 12 months he punched a time clock every hour, and \"Art/Life One Year Performance 1983–1984 (Rope Piece)\", in which Hsieh and Linda Montano spent a year tied to each other by an eight-foot rope.\n\nIn \"The House with the Ocean View\" (2003), Marina Abramović lived silently for 12 days without food or entertainment on a stage entirely open to the audience. Such is the physical stamina required for some of her work that in 2012 she set up what she called a \"boot camp\" in Hudson, New York, for participants in her multiple-person performances.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "179660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179660", "title": "Function word", "text": "Function word\n\nIn linguistics, function words (also called functors) are words that have little lexical meaning or have ambiguous meaning and express grammatical relationships among other words within a sentence, or specify the attitude or mood of the speaker. They signal the structural relationships that words have to one another and are the glue that holds sentences together. Thus they form important elements in the structures of sentences.\n\nWords that are not function words are called \"content words\" (or open class words or \"lexical words\" or \"autosemantic words\"): these include nouns, verbs, adjectives, and most adverbs, although some adverbs are function words (e.g., \"then\" and \"why\"). Dictionaries define the specific meanings of content words, but can only describe the general usages of function words. By contrast, grammars describe the use of function words in detail, but treat lexical words in general terms only.\n\nSince it was first proposed in 1952 by C. C. Fries, this distinguishing of function/structure words from content/lexical words has been highly influential in the grammar used in second language acquisition and English language teaching.\n\nFunction words might be prepositions, pronouns, auxiliary verbs, conjunctions, grammatical articles or particles, all of which belong to the group of closed-class words. Interjections are sometimes considered function words but they belong to the group of open-class words. Function words might or might not be inflected or might have affixes.\n\nFunction words belong to the closed class of words in grammar in that it is very uncommon to have new function words created in the course of speech, whereas in the open class of words (that is, nouns, verbs, adjectives, or adverbs) new words may be added readily (such as slang words, technical terms, and adoptions and adaptations of foreign words). See neologism.\n\nEach function word either gives some grammatical information on other words in a sentence or clause, and cannot be isolated from other words, or it may indicate the speaker's mental model as to what is being said.\n\nGrammatical words, as a class, can have distinct phonological properties from content words. Grammatical words sometimes do not make full use of all the sounds in a language. For example, in some of the Khoisan languages, most content words begin with clicks, but very few function words do. In English, very few words other than function words begin with voiced \"th\" (see Pronunciation of English th); English function words may have fewer than three letters 'I', 'an', 'in' while non-function words usually have three or more 'eye', 'Ann', 'inn' (see three letter rule).\n\nThe following is a list of the kind of words considered to be function words:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44605851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44605851", "title": "Gynomorph", "text": "Gynomorph\n\nA gynomorph () (\"gyno–\" \"woman\" + \"morph\" \"shape\", literally \"female-like shape\") is a Greek word used to describe a male who possessed distinctly feminine features.\n\nIn Greek mythology and religion, a gynomorph was a bi-gendered god with both masculine and feminine characteristics. Gynomorphs were portrayed as effeminate young males, like Dionysos, a masculine god who possessed distinctly feminine features. Gynomorphs retained the creative capacity of female divinities, they had cosmic wombs, but they also possessed the inseminating abilities attributed to male divinities.\n\nIn biology, a gynomorph is a male that resembles a female, whereas an andromorph is a female that resembles a male. For instance, some female damselflies show colour variations typically found in males. Andromorphs by resembling males, are thought to benefit from avoiding male harassment. Some authors have proposed that this benefit is offset by a higher probability of detection for andromorphs compared to gynomorphs owing to differences in body colouration.\n\n"}
{"id": "53327728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53327728", "title": "Hassan Mourad", "text": "Hassan Mourad\n\nHassan Sobhi Mourad (January 3, 1942 – August 14, 2015) was an academic, a calligrapher, an artist, a researcher, an author and a poet. He specialized in Arabic Calligraphy, its development and teaching, drawing to all age groups, as well as contributing in writing art-related articles. Born in Syria, Hassan Mourad lived abroad in various countries and continents for over thirty-five years due to his career in diplomatic service. Though living abroad for most of his adult life, he remained passionate about the Arabic Language, its history and the art of Arabic Calligraphy. Mourad was influenced at the early age of 14 by a fellow Syrian writer without having ever met him; this artist, AbdulRahman Fakhoory, predicted a bright future in art for Mourad.\n\nMourad was also influenced by other great Arab artists, such as Hashim the Calligrapher, the Turkish Hamid Alamady, Mostapha Raqim and Hamdallah Alamasy, as well as the Persian Meer Ali Tabreez, Abbas Akhaween and others. Having so many historical figures to look up to built a foundation of an ever growing passion for Arabic Calligraphy, which encouraged Mourad to learn the principles and arts with patience, diligence, and willingness. For years thereafter, he continued studying and developing his skill, building on his talent, and learning secrets of the arts.\n\nMourad designed artworks and logos for various purposes, and a mural for King Fahd Academy in Bonn, Germany. He participated in restoring artworks, scripts, and decorations of an old palace in his early years of practicing art. He also copied pages of the Quran in the Diwani Script that was never used for the Quran before. Mourad used Naskh and Ottoman scripts in decorations he designed for many pieces of his work, also copying many versus of the Quran.\n\nThe artist was the first to employ the Arabic letter, applying artistic value without distorting the letter, in creating an artwork for his 1986 exhibition in Utrecht, the Netherlands. He created pieces of fine art with his individual touch of art, with variations in both color and black and white. Mourad was passionate about Arabic Calligraphy, the Arabic script, and its principles of beauty and the distribution of its letters, which in professional calligraphy follow meticulous rules and principles. He is cited as a professional academic and calligrapher, and through extensive research of the history of Arabic Calligraphy, Mourad concludes that the Misnad style of Arabic Calligraphy is the original form of Arabic Calligraphy and has influenced future calligraphy styles.\n\n\nIn 1993, Hassan Mourad registered a custom Arabic font, Hassan, with Linotype. This font, which followed an individual Naskh style, is now also available in OpenType format.\n\n"}
{"id": "56542593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56542593", "title": "Hispania. Revista Española de Historia", "text": "Hispania. Revista Española de Historia\n\nHispania, Revista Española de Historia is a triannual peer-reviewed open access academic journal published by the Instituto de Historia of the Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas. The editor-in-chief is Fernando García Sanz (Instituto de Historia). It was established in 1940 and covers history, from the ancient to the modern periods.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in the Arts and Humanities Citation Index, Current Contents/Arts & Humanities, and Scopus.\n"}
{"id": "37097530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37097530", "title": "History of the Book in America", "text": "History of the Book in America\n\nA History of the Book in America is a five-volume series of scholarly books of essays published 2000–2010 by the University of North Carolina Press, and edited by David D. Hall. Topics include printing, publishing, book selling, reading, and other aspects of print culture in colonial America and the United States. Among the contributing writers: Hugh Amory, Georgia B. Barnhill, Paul S. Boyer, Richard D. Brown, Scott E. Casper, Charles E. Clark, James P. Danky, Ann Fabian, James N. Green, Robert A. Gross, Jeffrey D. Groves, David D. Hall, Mary Kelley, E. Jennifer Monaghan, Janice Radway, James Raven, Elizabeth Carroll Reilly, Joan Shelley Rubin, Michael Schudson, David S. Shields, Wayne A. Wiegand, Michael Winship.\n\nThe five volumes in \"A History of the Book in America\" offer a sweeping chronicle of our country's print production and culture from colonial times to the end of the twentieth century. This interdisciplinary, collaborative work of scholarship examines the book trades as they have developed and spread throughout the United States; provides a history of U.S. literary cultures; investigates the practice of reading and, more broadly, the uses of literacy; and links literary culture with larger themes in American history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16933122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16933122", "title": "Human sex ratio", "text": "Human sex ratio\n\nIn anthropology and demography, the human sex ratio is the ratio of males to females in a population. More data is available for humans than for any other species, and the human sex ratio is more studied than that of any other species, but interpreting these statistics can be difficult.\n\nLike most sexual species, the sex ratio in humans is approximately 1:1. Due to higher female fetal mortality, the sex ratio at birth worldwide is commonly thought to be 107 boys to 100 girls, although this value is subject to debate in the scientific community. The sex ratio for the entire world population is 102 males to 100 females (2017 est.). Depending upon which definition is used, between 0.1% and 1.7% of live births are intersex.\n\nGender imbalance may arise as a consequence of various factors including natural factors, exposure to pesticides and environmental contaminants, war casualties, sex-selective abortions, infanticides, aging, and deliberate gendercide.\n\nHuman sex ratios, either at birth or in the population as a whole, are reported in any of four ways: the ratio of males to females, the ratio of females to males, the proportion of males, or the proportion of females. If there are 108,000 males and 100,000 females the ratio of males to females is 1.080 and the proportion of males is 51.9%. Scientific literature often uses the proportion of males. This article uses the ratio of males to females, unless specified otherwise.\n\nIn a study around 2002, the natural sex ratio at birth was estimated to be close to 1.06 males/female. Some scholars suggest that countries considered to have significant practices of prenatal sex-selection are those with birth sex ratios of 108 and above (selection against females) and 102 and below (selection against males). This assumption has been questioned by some scholars.\n\nInfant mortality is higher in boys than girls in most parts of the world. This has been explained by sex differences in genetic and biological makeup, with boys being biologically weaker and more susceptible to diseases and premature death. Recent studies have found that numerous preconception or prenatal environmental factors affect the probability of a baby being conceived male or female. It has been proposed that these environmental factors also explain sex differences in mortality. In most populations, adult males tend to have higher death rates than adult females of the same age (even after allowing for causes specific to females such as death in childbirth), both due to natural causes such as heart attacks and strokes, which account for by far the majority of deaths, and also to violent causes, such as homicide and warfare, resulting in higher life expectancy of females. For example, in the United States, as of 2006, an adult non-elderly male is 3 to 6 times more likely to become a victim of a homicide and 2.5 to 3.5 times more likely to die in an accident than a female of the same age. Consequently, the sex ratio tends to reduce as age increases and among the elderly, there is usually a greater proportion of females. For example, the male to female ratio falls from 1.05 for the group aged 15 to 65 to 0.70 for the group over 65 in Germany, from 1.00 to 0.72 in the United States, from 1.06 to 0.91 in mainland China, and from 1.07 to 1.02 in India.\n\nIn the United States, the sex ratios at birth over the period 1970–2002 were 1.05 for the white non-Hispanic population, 1.04 for Mexican Americans, 1.03 for African Americans and Indians, and 1.07 for mothers of Chinese or Filipino ethnicity. Among Western European countries c. 2001, the ratios ranged from 1.04 in Belgium to 1.07 in Switzerland, Italy, Ireland and Portugal. In the aggregated results of 56 Demographic and Health Surveys in African countries, the ratio is 1.03, albeit with considerable country-to-country variation.\n\nThere is controversy whether sex ratios outside the 103-107 range are due to sex-selection, as suggested by some scholars, or due to natural causes. Some scholars argue that strong socioeconomic factors such as the dowry system in India and the one child policy of China are responsible for prenatal sex-selection. In a widely cited article, Amartya Sen supported such views. Other researchers argue that an unbalanced sex ratio should not be automatically held as evidence of prenatal sex-selection; Michel Garenne reports that many African nations have, over decades, witnessed birth sex ratios below 100, that is more girls are born than boys. Angola, Botswana and Namibia have reported birth sex ratios between 94 and 99, which is quite different than the presumed \"normal\" sex ratio, meaning that significantly more girls have been born in such societies.\n\nIn an extensive study, carried out around 2005, of sex ratio at birth in the United States from 1940 over 62 years, statistical evidence suggested the following:\n\n\nFisher's principle is an explanation of why the sex ratio of most species is approximately 1:1. Outlined by Ronald Fisher in his 1930 book, it is an argument in terms of parental expenditure. Essentially he argues that the 1:1 ratio is the evolutionarily stable strategy.\n\nThe natural factors that affect the human sex ratio are an active area of scientific research. Over 1000 articles have been published in various journals. Two of the often cited reviews of scientific studies on human sex ratio are by W. H. James. The scientific studies are based on extensive birth and death records in Africa, the Americas, Asia, Australia, and Europe. A few of these studies extend to over 100 years of yearly human sex ratio data for some countries. These studies suggest that the human sex ratio, both at birth and as a population matures, can vary significantly according to a large number of factors, such as paternal age, maternal age, plural birth, birth order, gestation weeks, race, parent's health history, and parent's psychological stress. Remarkably, the trends in human sex ratio are not consistent across countries at a given time, or over time for a given country. In economically developed countries, as well as developing countries, these scientific studies have found that the human sex ratio at birth has historically varied between 0.94 and 1.15 for natural reasons.\n\nIn a scientific paper published in 2008, James states that conventional assumptions have been:\n\nJames cautions that available scientific evidence stands against the above assumptions and conclusions. He reports that there is an excess of males at birth in almost all human populations, and the natural sex ratio at birth is usually between 1.02 and 1.08. However the ratio may deviate significantly from this range for natural reasons.\n\nA 1999 scientific paper published by Jacobsen reported the sex ratio for 815,891 children born in Denmark between 1980–1993. They studied the birth records to identify the effects of multiple birth, birth order, age of parents and the sexes of preceding siblings on the proportion of males using contingency tables, chi-squared tests and regression analysis. The secondary sex ratio decreased with increased number of children per plural birth and with paternal age, whereas no significant independent effect was observed for maternal age, birth order, or other natural factors.\n\nA 2009 research paper published by Branum et al. reports the sex ratio derived from data in United States birth records over a 25-year period (1981–2006). This paper reports that the sex ratio at birth for the white ethnic group in the United States was 1.04 when the gestational age was 33–36 weeks, but 1.15 for gestational ages of less than 28 weeks, 28–32 weeks, and 37 or more weeks. This study also found that the sex ratios at birth in the United States, between 1981–2006, were lower in both black and Hispanic ethnic groups when compared with white ethnic group.\n\nThe relationship between natural factors and human sex ratio at birth, and with aging, remains an active area of scientific research.\n\nVarious scientists have examined the question whether human birth sex ratios have historically been affected by environmental stressors such as climate change and global warming. Catalano et al. report that cold weather is an environmental stressor, and women subjected to colder weather abort frail male fetuses in greater proportion thereby lowering birth sex ratios. Cold weather stressors simultaneously extend male longevity thereby raise human sex ratio in its older age bracket. Catalano team finds that a 1 °C increase in annual temperature predicts one more male than expected for every 1,000 females born in a year.\n\nHelle et al. have studied 138 years worth of human birth sex ratio data, from 1865 to 2003. They find an increased excess of male births during periods of the exogenous stress (World War II) and during warm years. In the warmest period over the 138 years, the birth sex ratio peaked at about 1.08 in northern Europe.\n\nCauses of stress during gestation, such as maternal malnutrition generally appear to increase fetal deaths particularly among males, resulting in a lower boy to girl ratio at birth. Also, higher incidence of Hepatitis B virus in populations is believed to increase the male to female sex ratio, while some unexplained environmental health hazards are thought to have the opposite effect.\n\nThe effects of gestational environment on human sex ratio are complicated and unclear, with numerous conflicting reports. For example, Oster et al. examined a data set of 67,000 births in China, 15 percent of whom were Hepatitis B carriers. They found no effect on birth sex ratio from Hepatitis B presence in either the mothers or fathers.\n\nA 2007 survey by the Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Program noted abnormally low sex ratios in Russian Arctic villages and Inuit villages in Greenland and Canada, and attributed this imbalance to high levels of endocrine disruptors in the blood of inhabitants, including PCBs and DDT. These chemicals are believed to have accumulated in the tissues of fish and animals that make up the bulk of these populations' diets. However, as noted in the Social factors section below, it is important to exclude alternative explanations, including social ones, when examining large human populations whose composition by ethnicity and race may be changing.\n\nA 2008 report provides further evidence of effects of feminizing chemicals on male development in each class of vertebrate species as a worldwide phenomenon, possibly leading to a decline in the sex ratio in humans and a possible decline in sperm counts. Out of over 100,000 recently introduced chemicals, 99% are poorly regulated. \n\nOther factors that could possibly affect the sex ratio include:\n\nOther scientific studies suggest that environmental effects on human sex ratio at birth are either limited or not properly understood. For example, a research paper published in 1999, by scientists from Finland’s National Public Health Institute, reports the effect of environmental chemicals and changes in sex ratio over 250 years in Finland. This scientific team evaluated whether Finnish long-term data are compatible with the hypothesis that the decrease in the ratio of male to female births in industrial countries is caused by environmental factors. They analyzed the sex ratio of births from the files of Statistics Finland and all live births in Finland from 1751 to 1997. They found an increase in the proportion of males from 1751 to 1920; this was followed by a decrease and interrupted by peaks in births of males during and after World War I and World War II. None of the natural factors such as paternal age, maternal age, age difference of parents, birth order could explain the time trends. The scientists found that the peak ratio of male proportion precedes the period of industrialization or the introduction of pesticides or hormonal drugs, rendering a causal association between environmental chemicals and human sex ratio at birth unlikely. Moreover, these scientists claim that the trends they found in Finland are similar to those observed in other countries with worse pollution and much greater pesticide use.\n\nSome studies have found that certain kinds of environmental pollution, in particular dioxins leads to higher rates of female births. Other pollutants such as PCBs can cause an increase in the male ratio.\n\nSex-selective abortion and infanticide are thought to significantly skew the naturally occurring ratio in some populations, such as China, where the introduction of ultrasound scans in the late 1980s has led to a birth sex ratio (males to females) of 1.181 (2010 official census data for China). The 2011 India census reports India's sex ratio in 0–6 age bracket at 1.088. The 2011 birth sex ratios for China and India are significantly above the mean ratio recorded in the United States from 1940 through 2002 (1.051); however, their birth sex ratios are within the 0.98–1.14 range observed in the United States for significant ethnic groups over the same time period. Along with Asian countries, a number of European, Middle East, and Latin American countries have recently reported high birth sex ratios in the 1.06 to 1.14 range. High birth sex ratios, some claim, may be caused in part by social factors.\n\nReported sex ratios at birth, outside the typical range of 1.03 to 1.07, thus call for an explanation of some kind.\n\nAnother hypothesis has been inspired by the recent and persistent high birth sex ratios observed in Georgia and Armenia—both predominantly Orthodox Christian societies—and Azerbaijan, a predominantly Muslim society. Since their independence from Soviet Union, the birth sex ratio in these Caucasus countries has risen sharply to between 1.11 and 1.20, some of world's highest. Mesle et al. consider the hypothesis that the high birth sex ratio may be because of the social trend of more than two children per family, and birth order possibly affects the sex ratio in this region of the world. They also consider the hypothesis that sons are preferred in these countries of the Caucasus, the spread of scans and there being a practice of sex-selective abortion; however, the scientists admit that they do not have definitive proof that sex-selective abortion is actually happening or that there are no natural reasons for the persistently high birth sex ratios.\n\nAs an example of how the social composition of a human population may produce unusual changes in sex ratios, in a study in several counties of California where declining sex ratios had been observed, Smith and Von Behren observe \"In the raw data, the male birth proportion is indeed declining. However, during this period, there were also shifts in demographics that influence the sex ratio. Controlling for birth order, parents' age, and race/ethnicity, different trends emerged. White births (which account for over 80%) continued to show a statistically significant decline, while other racial groups showed non-statistically significant declines (Japanese, Native American, other), little or no change (black), or an increase (Chinese). Finally, when the white births were divided into Hispanic and non-Hispanic (possible since 1982), it was found that both white subgroups suggest an increase in male births.\" They concluded, \"that the decline in male births in California is largely attributable to changes in demographics.\"\n\nSeveral studies have examined human birth sex ratio data to determine if there is a natural relationship between the age of mother or father to the birth sex ratio. For example, Ruder has studied 1.67 million births in 33 states in the United States to discern effect of parent's age and birth sex ratios. Similarly, Jacobsen et al. have studied 0.82 million births in Denmark with the same goal. These scientists find that maternal age has no statistically significant role on human birth sex ratio. However, they report a significant effect of paternal age. Significantly more male babies were born per 1000 female babies to younger fathers than to older fathers. These studies suggest that social factors such as early marriage and quickly fertile couples may play a role in raising birth sex ratios in certain societies.\n\nReported sex ratios at birth for some human populations may be influenced not only by cultural preferences and social practices that favor the birth or survival of one sex over the other but also by incomplete or inaccurate reporting or recording of the births or the survival of infants. Even what constitutes a live birth or infant death may vary from one population to another. For example, for most of the 20th century in Russia (and the Soviet Union), extremely premature newborns (less than 28 weeks gestational age, or less than 1000 grams in weight, or less than 35 centimeters in length) were not counted as a live birth until they had survived 7 days; and if that infant died in those first 168 hours it would not be counted as an infant death. This led to serious underreporting of the Infant mortality rate (by 22% to 25%) relative to standards recommended by the World Health Organization.\n\nWhen unusual sex ratios at birth (or any other age) are observed, it is important to consider misreporting, misrecording, or under registration of births or deaths as possible reasons. Some researchers have in part attributed the high male to female sex ratios reported in mainland China in the last 25 years to the underreporting of the births of female children after the implementation of the one-child policy, though alternative explanations are now generally more widely accepted, including above all the use of ultrasound technology and sex-selective abortion of female fetuses and, probably to a more limited degree, neglect or in some cases infanticide of females. In the case of China, because of deficiencies in the vital statistics registration system, studies of sex ratios at birth have relied either on special fertility surveys, whose accuracy depends on full reporting of births and survival of both male and female infants, or on the national population census from which both birth rates and death rates are calculated from the household's reporting of births and deaths in the 18 months preceding the census. To the extent that this underreporting of births or deaths is sex-selective, both fertility surveys and censuses may inaccurately reflect the actual sex ratios at birth.\n\nCatalano has examined the hypothesis that population stress induced by a declining economy reduces the human sex ratio. He compared the sex ratio in East and West Germany for the years 1946 to 1999, with genetically similar populations. The population stressors theory predicts that the East German sex ratio should have been lower in 1991 when East Germany's economy collapsed than expected from its previous years. Furthermore, the theory suggests that East German birth sex ratios should generally be lower than the observed sex ratio in West Germany for the same years, over time. According to Catalano's study, the birth sex ratio data from East Germany and West Germany over 45 years support the hypothesis. The sex ratio in East Germany was also at its lowest in 1991. According to Catalano study, assuming women in East Germany did not opt to abort male more than female, the best hypothesis is that a collapsing economy lowers the human birth sex ratio, while a booming economy raises the birth sex ratio. Catalano notes that these trends may be related to the observed trend of elevated incidences of very low birth weight from maternal stress, during certain macroeconomic circumstances.\n\nA research group led by Ein-Mor reported that sex ratio does not seem to change significantly with either maternal or paternal age. Neither gravidity nor parity seem to affect the male-to-female ratio. However, there is a significant association of sex ratio with the length of gestation. These Ein-mor conclusions have been disputed. For example, James suggested that Ein-Mor results are based on some demographic variables and a small data set, a broader study of variables and larger population set suggests human sex ratio shows substantial variation for various reasons and different trend effects of length of gestation than those reported by Ein-Mor. In another study, James has offered the hypothesis that human sex ratios, and mammalian sex ratios in general, are causally related to the hormone levels of both parents at the time of conception. This hypothesis is yet to be tested and proven true or false over large population sets.\n\nGender imbalance is a disparity between males and females in a population. As stated above, males usually exceed females at birth but subsequently experience different mortality rates due to many possible causes such as differential natural death rates, war casualties, and deliberate gender control.\n\nAccording to Nicholas Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn, two Pulitzer Prize-winning reporters for the \"New York Times\", violence against women is causing gender imbalances in many developing countries. They detail sex-selective infanticide in the developing world, particularly in China, India and Pakistan.\n\nCommonly, countries with gender imbalances have three characteristics in common. The first is a rapid decline in fertility, either because of preference for smaller families or to comply with their nation's population control measures. Second, there is pressure for women to give birth to sons, often because of cultural preferences for male heirs. Third, families have widespread access to technology to selectively abort female fetuses.\n\nAs a contributing measure to gender imbalance in developing countries, Kristof and WuDunn's best estimate is that a girl in India, from 1 to 5 years of age, dies from discrimination every four minutes (132,000 deaths per year); that 39,000 girls in China die annually, within the first year of life, because parents did not give girls the same medical care and attention that boys received. The authors describe similar gender discrimination and gendercide in Congo, Kenya, Pakistan, Iraq, Bahrain, Thailand and many other developing countries.\n\nSome of the factors suggested as causes of the gender imbalance are warfare (excess of females, notably in the wake of WWI in western Europe, and WWII, particularly in the Soviet Union); sex-selective abortion and infanticide (excess of males, notably in China as a result of the one-child policy, or in India); and large-scale migration, such as that by male labourers unable to bring their families with them (as in Qatar and other Gulf countries). Gender imbalance may result in the threat of social unrest, especially in the case of an excess of low-status young males unable to find spouses, and being recruited into the service of militaristic political factions. Economic factors such as male-majority industries and activities like the petrochemical, agriculture, engineering, military, and technology also have created a male gender imbalance in some areas dependent on one of these industries. Conversely, the entertainment, banking, tourism, fashion, and service industries may have resulted in a female-majority gender imbalance in some areas dependent on them.\n\nOne study found that the male-to-female sex ratio in the German state of Bavaria fell as low as 0.60 after the end of World War II for the most severely affected age cohort (those between 21 and 23 years old in 1946). This same study found that out-of-wedlock births spiked from approximately 10–15% during the inter-war years up to 22% at the end of the war. This increase in out-of-wedlock births was attributed to a change in the marriage market caused by the decline in the sex ratio.\n\nThe Northern Mariana Islands have the highest female ratio with 0.77 males per female. Qatar has the highest male ratio, with 2.87 males/female. For the group aged below 15, Sierra Leone has the highest female ratio with 0.96 males/female, and the Republic of Georgia and the People's Republic of China are tied for the highest male ratio with 1.13 males/female (according to the 2006 CIA World Factbook).\n\nThe value for the entire world population is 1.01 males/female, with 1.07 at birth, 1.06 for those under 15, 1.02 for those between 15 and 64, and 0.78 for those over 65.\n\nThe \"First World\" G7 members all have a gender ratio in the range of 0.95–0.98 for the total population, of 1.05–1.07 at birth, of 1.05–1.06 for the group below 15, of 1.00–1.04 for the group aged 15–64, and of 0.70–0.75 for those over 65.\n\nCountries on the Arabian peninsula tend to have a 'natural' ratio of about 1.05 at birth but a very high ratio of males for those over 65 (Saudi Arabia 1.13, Arab Emirates 2.73, Qatar 2.84), indicating either an above-average mortality rate for females or a below-average mortality for males, or, more likely in this case, a large population of aging male guest workers. Conversely, countries of Northern and Eastern Europe (the Baltic states, Belarus, Ukraine, Russia) tend to have a 'normal' ratio at birth but a very low ratio of males among those over 65 (Russia 0.46, Latvia 0.48, Ukraine 0.52); similarly, Armenia has a far above average male ratio at birth (1.17), and a below-average male ratio above 65 (0.67). This effect may be caused by emigration and higher male mortality as result of higher Soviet era deaths; it may also be related to the enormous (by western standards) rate of alcoholism in the former Soviet states. Another possible contributory factor is an aging population, with a higher than normal proportion of relatively elderly people: we recall that due to higher differential mortality rates the ratio of males to females reduces for each year of age.\n\nIn the evolutionary biology of sexual reproduction, the operational sex ratio (OSR), is the ratio of sexually competing males that are ready to mate to sexually competing females that are ready to mate, or alternatively the local ratio of fertilizable females to sexually active males at any given time. Its difference from the physical sex ratio, is that it does not take into account sexually inactive or non-competitive individuals (individuals that do not compete for mates). On occasion, regions with a high male-low female sex ratio, like Alaska, have shown a correlation with a higher rate of reported rape.\n\nThere are several social consequences of an imbalanced sex ratio. High ratios of males make it easier for women to marry, but harder for men. In parts of China and India, there is a 12–15% excess of young men. These men will remain single and will be unable to have families, in societies where marriage is regarded as virtually universal and social status and acceptance depend, in large part, on being married and creating a new family. Analyses of how sex ratio imbalances affect personal consumption and intra-household distribution were pioneered by Gary Becker, Shoshana Grossbard-Shechtman, and Marcia Guttentag and Paul Secord. High ratios of males have a positive effect on marital fertility and women's share of household consumption and negative effects on non-marital cohabitation and fertility and women's labor supply. It has been shown that variation in sex ratio over time is inversely related to married women's labor supply in the U.S.\n\nAn additional problem is that many of these men are of low socioeconomic class with limited education. When there is a shortage of women in the marriage market, the women can \"marry up\", inevitably leaving the least desirable men with no marriage prospects. In many communities today, there are growing numbers of young men who come from lower classes who are marginalized because of lack of family prospects and the fact that they have little outlet for sexual energy. There is evidence that this situation will lead to increased levels of antisocial behavior and violence and will ultimately present a threat to the stability and security of society.\n\nThe human sex ratio at birth has been an object of study since early in the history of statistics, as it is easily recorded and a large number for sufficiently large populations. An early researcher was John Arbuthnot (1710), who in modern terms performed statistical hypothesis testing, computing the \"p\"-value (via a sign test), interpreted it as statistical significance, and rejected the null hypothesis. This is credited as \"… the first use of significance tests …\" the first example of reasoning about statistical significance and moral certainty, and \"… perhaps the first published report of a nonparametric test …\"; see details at . Human sex at birth was also analyzed and used as an example by Jacob Bernoulli \"Ars Conjectandi\" (1713), where an unequal sex ratio is a natural example of a Bernoulli trial with uneven odds. Willem 's Gravesande (1774) also studied it. Pierre-Simon Laplace (1778) used human sex ratio as an example in his development of probability theory. He considered the statistics of almost half a million births; the statistics showed an excess of boys compared to girls. He concluded by calculation of a \"p\"-value that the excess was a real, but unexplained, effect.\n\n\nCountries:\n"}
{"id": "1123899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1123899", "title": "Independence constitution", "text": "Independence constitution\n\nIndependence constitution is the name commonly given by African political scientists to originating constitutions (many of which are extant) of former British colonies, primarily in Africa, which gained their independence approximately 1960-1990. \n\nDue to these colonies' low economic output and the United Kingdom's fading imperial prowess, independence was usually granted after little instigation, with the UK presiding over creation of the new state. Generally local leaders were hand-picked by the UK to be the new governing body and were given a political education in London, during which they often served as the sole representative of their country in the negotiation of their country's new constitution. In short, independence constitutions were written in London, by a primarily British body, in line with British systems of governance. Supporters applaud the UK's responsible transfer of power; critics cite low popular perceptions of legitimacy and claim that the independence constitutions maintained essentially colonial states.\n"}
{"id": "1252580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1252580", "title": "James Webb (historian)", "text": "James Webb (historian)\n\nJames Charles Napier Webb (13 January 1946 – 9 May 1980) was a Scottish historian and biographer. He was born in Edinburgh, and was educated at Harrow and Trinity College, Cambridge. He is remembered primarily for his books \"The Harmonious Circle\", \"The Occult Underground\" (originally titled \"Flight from Reason\"), and \"The Occult Establishment\".\n\nIn 1980 his important biography of G. I. Gurdjieff, titled \"The Harmonious Circle\", was published. He spent 8 years researching the book, making contacts with the Gurdjieff community worldwide. The New York Review of Books described Webb's research and knowledge of the subject as \"extremely comprehensive\", and Mistlberger described the book as \"scholarly and occasionally gossipy\" with Webb being \"unquestionably a sincere researcher\" who became \"deeply involved in the matter of his subject\" while remaining \"fundamentally an outsider, an investigative journalist\". Tamdgidi wrote that, amongst all the biographers of Gurdjieff, \"only Webb claimed to have been independent and outside the circle of Gurdjieff's followers\", and in 2004, in \"Inventors of Gurdjieff\", Paul Beekman Taylor described \"The Harmonious Circle\" as \"the first systematic biographical account by a writer who hadn't known Gurdjieff personally\" Webb established that Gurdjieff's writings revealed substantial evidence of familiarity with the languages and cultures of central Asia, but Webb regarded Gurdjieff more as a self-taught innovator than a member of an esoteric Asiatic group, and, although seeing some of its forms having derived from Asia, saw the content of his teachings deriving from western occult traditions.\n\nWebb's theories of Gurdjieff's identity as a Russian foreign agent in Central Asia, and theories on where he actually travelled before 1917, are considered controversial points in \"The Harmonious Circle\".\n\nWebb's work challenges theories of secularism, theories of decline in organised religion and spirituality. Webb argued that the 19th and 20th centuries had also been marked by a revolt against the Enlightenment, and that the rise of \"irrationalism\" was much more marked than the rise of rationalism, especially before, during and after the First World War and the Second World War. Webb traced the influence of occult and mystical groups and writers on literature, philosophy and politics.\n\nWebb was generally ignored in his lifetime, but with the increasing rise of New Age spirituality in later years, his work now seems increasingly prescient. After increasing mental health difficulties, Webb committed suicide in 1980.\n\nNicholas Goodrick-Clarke has lauded him as a serious researcher of occultism: \"By focusing on functional significance of occultism in political irrationalism, Webb rescued the study of Nazi occultism for the history of ideas.\"\n\nHis major works \"The Occult Underground\" and \"The Occult Establishment\" were translated into German and published in 2009 and 2008 respectively.\n\nTrinity College established the \"James Webb Prize for the History of Ideas\" in his memory.\n\n\nJohn Robert Colombo, Colin Wilson, Joyce Collin-Smith: \"The Occult Webb: An Appreciation of the life and Work of James Webb,\" (1999) Colombo & Company. \n\n"}
{"id": "54207037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54207037", "title": "Jowitt's Dictionary of English Law", "text": "Jowitt's Dictionary of English Law\n\nJowitt's Dictionary of English Law is a comprehensive law dictionary covering the law of England and Wales, providing explanations of legal terms and their historical context.\n\nThe first edition (\"Dictionary of English Law\") compiled by William Jowitt, 1st Earl Jowitt (1885–1957), was published posthumously in 1959, completed by Clifford Walsh.\n\nThe second edition was published in 1977, edited by John Burke.\n\nThe third edition, edited by Daniel Greenberg, was published in 2010.\n\nThe fourth edition, edited by Daniel Greenberg, was published in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33854101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33854101", "title": "Law, Culture and the Humanities", "text": "Law, Culture and the Humanities\n\nLaw, Culture and the Humanities is a peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes papers three times a year in the field of humanities. The journal's editor-in-chief is Austin Sarat (Amherst College). It was established in 2005 and is currently published by SAGE Publications on behalf of the Association for the Study of Law, Culture and the Humanities. The journal covers legal history, legal theory and jurisprudence, law and cultural studies, law and literature, and legal hermeneutics.\n\n\"Law, Culture and the Humanities\" is abstracted and indexed in International Bibliography of the Social Sciences and Scopus.\n\n"}
{"id": "9389226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9389226", "title": "List of Chinese hymn books", "text": "List of Chinese hymn books\n\nThis is a list of Chinese Christian hymn books. One such list was compiled by Rev. Donald MacGillivray, D.D., a Protestant Christian missionary in Shanghai with the Canadian Presbyterian Mission in 1911: MacGillivray listed 62 items, but many others have been published since then.\n\n"}
{"id": "6246985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6246985", "title": "Lyrical abstraction", "text": "Lyrical abstraction\n\nLyrical abstraction is either of two related but distinct trends in Post-war Modernist painting:\n\n\"European Abstraction Lyrique\" born in Paris, the French art critic Jean José Marchand being credited with coining its name in 1947, considered as a component of (Tachisme) when the name of this movement was coined in 1951 by Pierre Guéguen and Charles Estienne the author of \"L'Art à Paris 1945–1966\", and \"American Lyrical Abstraction\" a movement described by Larry Aldrich (the founder of the Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum, Ridgefield Connecticut) in 1969. \n\nA third definition is the usage as a descriptive term. It is a descriptive term characterizing a type of abstract painting related to Abstract Expressionism; in use since the 1940s. Many well known abstract expressionist painters like Arshile Gorky seen in context have been characterized as doing a type of painting described as lyrical abstraction.\n\nThe original common use refers to the tendency attributed to paintings in Europe during the post-1945 period and as a way of describing several artists (mostly in France) with painters like Wols, Gérard Schneider and Hans Hartung from Germany or Georges Mathieu, etc., whose works related to characteristics of contemporary American abstract expressionism. At the time (late 1940s), Paul Jenkins, Norman Bluhm, Sam Francis, Jules Olitski, Joan Mitchell, Ellsworth Kelly and numerous other American artists were, as well, living and working in Paris and other European cities. With the exception of Kelly, all of those artists developed their versions of painterly abstraction that has been characterized at times as lyrical abstraction, tachisme, color field, Nuagisme and abstract expressionism.\n\nThe art movement \"Abstraction lyrique\" was born in Paris after the war. At that time, the artistic life in Paris, which had been devastated by the Occupation and Collaboration, resumed with numerous artists exhibited again as soon as the Liberation of Paris in mid-1944. According to the new abstraction forms that characterised some artists, the movement was named by the art critic, Jean José Marchand, and the painter, Georges Mathieu, in 1947. Some art critics also looked at this movement as an attempt to restore the image of artistic Paris, which had held the rank of capital of the arts until the war. Lyrical abstraction also represented a competition between the School of Paris and the new New York School of Abstract Expressionism painting represented above all since 1946 by Jackson Pollock, then Willem de Kooning or Mark Rothko, which were also promoted by the American authorities from the early 1950s.\n\nLyrical abstraction was opposed not only to the Cubist and Surrealist movements that preceded it, but also to geometric abstraction (or \"cold abstraction\"). Lyrical abstraction was, in some ways, the first to apply the lessons of Wassily Kandinsky, considered one of the fathers of abstraction. For the artists, lyrical abstraction represented an opening to personal expression.\n\nFinally, in the late 1960s (partially as a response to minimal art, and the dogmatic interpretations by some to Greenbergian and Juddian formalism), many painters re-introduced painterly options into their works and the Whitney Museum and several other museums and institutions at the time formally named and identified the movement and uncompromising return to painterly abstraction as 'lyrical abstraction'.\n\nJust after World War II, many artists old and young were back in Paris where they worked and exhibited: Nicolas de Staël, Serge Poliakoff, André Lanskoy and Zaks from Russia; Hans Hartung and Wols from Germany; Árpád Szenes, Endre Rozsda and Simon Hantaï from Hungary; Alexandre Istrati from Romania; Jean-Paul Riopelle from Canada; Vieira da Silva from Portugal; Gérard Ernest Schneider from Switzerland; Feito from Spain; Bram van Velde from the Netherlands; Albert Bitran from Turkey; Zao Wou-Ki from China; Sugai from Japan; Sam Francis, John Franklin Koenig, Jack Youngerman and Paul Jenkins from the U.S.A.\n\nAll these artists and many others were at that time among the \"Lyrical Abstractionists\" with the French: Georges Mathieu, Pierre Soulages, Nallard, Jean René Bazaine, Jacques Doucet, Camille Bryen, Jean Le Moal, Gustave Singier, Alfred Manessier, Roger Bissière, Pierre Tal-Coat, Jean Messagier and others.\n\nLyrical Abstraction was opposed not only to \"l’Ecole de Paris\" remains of pre-war style but to Cubist and Surrealist movements that had preceded it, and also to geometric abstraction (or \"Cold Abstraction\"). For the artists in France, Lyrical Abstraction represented an opening to personal expression. In Belgium, Louis Van Lint figured a remarkable example of an artist who, after a short period of geometric abstraction, has moved to a lyrical abstraction in which he excelled.\n\nMany exhibitions were held in Paris for example in the galleries Arnaud, Drouin, Jeanne Bucher, Louis Carré, Galerie de France, and every year at the \"Salon des Réalités Nouvelles\" and \"Salon de Mai\" where the paintings of all these artists could be seen. At the Drouin gallery one could see Jean Le Moal, Gustave Singier, Alfred Manessier, Roger Bissière, Wols and others. A wind blew over the capital when Georges Mathieu decided to hold two exhibitions: \"L'Imaginaire\" in 1947 at the Palais du Luxembourg which he would have prefer to call \"abstraction lyrique\" to impose the name and then \"HWPSMTB\" with (Hans Hartung, Wols, Francis Picabia, François Stahly sculptor, Georges Mathieu, Michel Tapié and Camille Bryen) in 1948.\nIn March 1951 was held the larger exhibition \"Véhémences confrontées\" in the gallery Nina Dausset where for the first time were presented side to side French and American abstract artists. It was organised by the critic Michel Tapié, whose role in the defense of this movement was of the highest importance. With these events, he déclared that « the lyrical abstraction is born ».\n\nIt was, however, a fairly short reign (late 1957), which was quickly supplanted by the New Realism of Pierre Restany and Yves Klein.\n\nStarting around 1970, this movement has been revived by a new generation of artists born during or immediately after the Second World War. Some of its key promoters include Paul Kallos, Georges Romathier, Michelle Desterac, and Thibaut de Reimpré.\n\nAn exhibition entitled \"The Lyrical Flight, Paris 1945–1956\" (\"L'Envolée Lyrique, Paris 1945–1956\"), bringing together the works of 60 painters, was presented in Paris at the Musée du Luxembourg from April to August 2006 and included the most prominent painters of the movement: Georges Mathieu, Pierre Soulages, Gérard Schneider, Zao Wou-Ki, Albert Bitran, Serge Poliakoff.\n\n\n\nAmerican Lyrical Abstraction is an art movement that emerged in New York City, Los Angeles, Washington, DC, and then Toronto and London during the 1960s–1970s. Characterized by intuitive and loose paint handling, spontaneous expression, illusionist space, acrylic staining, process, occasional imagery, and other painterly and newer technological techniques. Lyrical Abstraction led the way away from minimalism in painting and toward a new freer expressionism. Painters who directly reacted against the predominating Formalist, Minimalist, and Pop Art and geometric abstraction styles of the 1960s, turned to new, experimental, loose, painterly, expressive, pictorial and abstract painting styles. Many of them had been Minimalists, working with various monochromatic, geometric styles, and whose paintings publicly evolved into new abstract painterly motifs. American Lyrical Abstraction is related in spirit to Abstract Expressionism, Color Field painting and European Tachisme of the 1940s and 1950s as well. Tachisme refers to the French style of abstract painting current in the 1945–1960 period. Very close to Art Informel, it presents the European equivalent to Abstract Expressionism.\n\nThe Sheldon Museum of Art held an exhibition from 1 June until 29 August 1993 entitled \"Lyrical Abstraction: Color and Mood\". Some of the participants included Dan Christensen, Walter Darby Bannard, Ronald Davis, Helen Frankenthaler, Sam Francis, Cleve Gray, Ronnie Landfield, Morris Louis, Jules Olitski, Robert Natkin, William Pettet, Mark Rothko, Lawrence Stafford, Peter Young and several other painters. At the time the museum issued a statement the read in part:\n\n\"As a movement, Lyrical Abstraction extended the post-war Modernist aesthetic and provided a new dimension within the abstract tradition which was clearly indebted to Jackson Pollock's \"dripped painting\" and Mark Rothko's stained, color forms. This movement was born out of a desire to create a direct physical and sensory experience of painting through their monumentality and emphasis on color – forcing the viewer to \"read\" paintings literally as things.\"\n\nDuring 2009 the Boca Raton Museum of Art in Florida hosted an exhibition entitled \"Expanding Boundaries: Lyrical Abstraction Selections from the Permanent Collection\"\n\nAt the time the museum issued a statement that said in part:\n\n\"Lyrical Abstraction arose in the 1960s and 70s, following the challenge of Minimalism and Conceptual art. Many artists began moving away from geometric, hard-edge, and minimal styles, toward more lyrical, sensuous, romantic abstractions worked in a loose gestural style. These \"lyrical abstractionists\" sought to expand the boundaries of abstract painting, and to revive and reinvigorate a painterly 'tradition' in American art. At the same time, these artists sought to reinstate the primacy of line and color as formal elements in works composed according to aesthetic principles – rather than as the visual representation of sociopolitical realities or philosophical theories.\"\n\n\"Characterized by intuitive and loose paint handling, spontaneous expression, illusionist space, acrylic staining, process, occasional imagery, and other painterly techniques, the abstract works included in this exhibition sing with rich fluid color and quiet energy. Works by the following artists associated with Lyrical Abstraction will be included: Natvar Bhavsar, Stanley Boxer, Lamar Briggs, Dan Christensen, David Diao, Friedel Dzubas, Sam Francis, Dorothy Gillespie, Cleve Gray, Paul Jenkins, Ronnie Landfield, Pat Lipsky, Joan Mitchell, Robert Natkin, Jules Olitski, Larry Poons, Garry Rich, John Seery, Jeff Way and Larry Zox.\" \n\nLyrical Abstraction, an exhibition in the Whitney Museum of American Art, May 25–July 6, 1971 was described by John I. H. Baur, curator of the Whitney Museum of American Art: \n\nLyrical Abstraction was the title of a circulating exhibition which commenced at the Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum, Ridgefield, Connecticut from April 5 through June 7, 1970, and ended at the Whitney Museum of American Art, New York, May 25 through July 6, 1971. Lyrical Abstraction is a term that was used by Larry Aldrich (the founder of the Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum, Ridgefield Connecticut) in 1969 to describe what Aldrich said he saw in the studios of many artists at that time. Mr. Aldrich, a successful designer and art collector, defined the trend of Lyrical Abstraction and explained how he came to acquire the works. In his \"Statement of the Exhibition\" he wrote, \"Early last season, it became apparent that in painting there was a movement away from the geometric, hard-edge, and minimal, toward more lyrical, sensuous, romantic abstractions in colors which were softer and more vibrant…The artist's touch is always visible in this type of painting, even when the paintings are done with spray guns, sponges or other objects...As I researched this lyrical trend, I found many young artists whose paintings appealed to me so much that I was impelled to acquire many of them. The majority of the paintings in the \"Lyrical Abstraction\" exhibition were created in 1969 and all are a part of my collection now.\" Larry Aldrich donated the paintings from the exhibition to the Whitney Museum of American Art.\n\nFor many years the term Lyrical Abstraction was a pejorative, which unfortunately adversely affected those artists whose works were associated with that name. In 1989 Union College art history professor, the late Daniel Robbins observed that Lyrical Abstraction was the term used in the late sixties to describe the return to painterly expressivity by painters all over the country and \"consequently\", Robbins said, \"the term should be used today because it has historical credibility\"\n\nThe following artists participated in the exhibition \"Lyrical Abstraction\".\n\n\n\nLyrical Abstraction along with the Fluxus movement and Postminimalism (a term first coined by Robert Pincus-Witten in the pages of Artforum in 1969) sought to expand the boundaries of abstract painting and Minimalism by focusing on process, new materials and new ways of expression. Postminimalism often incorporating industrial materials, raw materials, fabrications, found objects, installation, serial repetition, and often with references to Dada and Surrealism is best exemplified in the sculptures of Eva Hesse. Lyrical Abstraction, Conceptual Art, Postminimalism, Earth Art, Video, Performance art, Installation art, along with the continuation of Fluxus, Abstract Expressionism, Color Field Painting, Hard-edge painting, Minimal Art, Op art, Pop Art, Photorealism and New Realism extended the boundaries of Contemporary Art in the mid-1960s through the 1970s. Lyrical Abstraction is a type of freewheeling abstract painting that emerged in the mid-1960s when abstract painters returned to various forms of painterly, pictorial, expressionism with a predominate focus on process, gestalt and repetitive compositional strategies in general. Characterized by an overall gestalt, consistent surface tension, sometimes even the hiding of brushstrokes, and an overt avoidance of relational composition. It developed as did Postminimalism as an alternative to strict Formalist and Minimalist doctrine. \n\nLyrical Abstraction shares similarities with Color Field Painting and Abstract Expressionism especially in the freewheeling usage of paint – texture and surface, an example is illustrated by the painting by Ronnie Landfield entitled \"For William Blake\". Direct drawing, calligraphic use of line, the effects of brushed, splattered, stained, squeegeed, poured, and splashed paint superficially resemble the effects seen in Abstract Expressionism and Color Field Painting. However the styles are markedly different. Setting it apart from Abstract Expressionism and Action Painting of the 1940s and 1950s is the approach to composition and drama. As seen in Action Painting there is an emphasis on brushstrokes, high compositional drama, dynamic compositional tension. While in Lyrical Abstraction there is a sense of compositional randomness, all over composition, low key and relaxed compositional drama and an emphasis on process, repetition, and an all over sensibility. The differences with Color Field Painting are more subtle today because many of the Color Field painters like Helen Frankenthaler, Jules Olitski, Sam Francis, and Jack Bush with the exceptions of Morris Louis, Ellsworth Kelly, Paul Feeley, Thomas Downing, and Gene Davis evolved into Lyrical Abstractionists. Lyrical Abstraction shares with both Abstract Expressionism and Color Field Painting a sense of spontaneous and immediate sensual expression, consequently distinctions between specific artists and their styles become blurred, and seemingly interchangeable as they evolve.\n\nBy the mid-1950s, Richard Diebenkorn abandoned abstract expressionism and along with David Park, Elmer Bischoff and several others formed the Bay Area Figurative School with a return to Figurative painting. During the period between the fall 1964 and the spring of 1965 Diebenkorn traveled throughout Europe, he was granted a cultural visa to visit and view Henri Matisse paintings in important Soviet museums. He traveled to the then Soviet Union to study Henri Matisse paintings in Russian museums that were rarely seen outside of Russia. When he returned to painting in the Bay Area in mid-1965 his resulting works summed up all that he had learned from his more than a decade as a leading figurative painter. When in 1967 he returned to abstraction his works were parallel to movements like the Color Field movement and Lyrical Abstraction.\n\nIn the 1960s, English painter John Hoyland's Color field paintings were characterised by simple rectangular shapes, high-key color and a flat picture surface. In the 1970s his paintings became more textured. During the 1960s and 1970s, he showed his paintings in New York City with the Robert Elkon Gallery and the André Emmerich Gallery. His paintings were closely aligned with Post-Painterly Abstraction, Color Field painting and Lyrical Abstraction.\n\nAbstract Expressionism preceded Color Field painting, Lyrical Abstraction, Fluxus, Pop Art, Minimalism, Postminimalism, and the other movements of the 1960s and 1970s and it influenced the later movements that evolved. The interrelationship of/and between distinct but related styles resulted in influence that worked both ways between artists young and old, and vice versa. During the mid-1960s in New York, Los Angeles and elsewhere artists often crossed the lines between definitions and art styles. During that period – the mid-1960s through the 1970s advanced American art and contemporary art in general was at a crossroad, shattering in several directions. During the 1970s political movements and revolutionary changes in communication made these American styles international; as the art world itself became more and more international. American Lyrical Abstraction's European counterpart Neo-expressionism came to dominate the 1980s, and also developed as a response to American Pop Art and Minimalism and borrows heavily from American Abstract Expressionism.\n\nThis is a list of artists, whose work or a period or significant aspects of it, has been seen as lyrical abstraction, including those before the identification of the term or tendency in America in the 1960s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "785136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=785136", "title": "Mighty Max (TV series)", "text": "Mighty Max (TV series)\n\nMighty Max is an American animated action/sci-fi television series that aired from 12 September 1993 to 2 December 1994 based upon the British Mighty Max toys, an outgrowth of the Polly Pocket line, created by Bluebird Toys in 1992. It ran for two seasons, with a total of 40 episodes airing during the show's run.\n\nThe series follows Max, an adventurous preteen boy who receives in the mail a small statue of a fowl, inscribed with Egyptian hieroglyphs whereof the translation states: \"You have been chosen to be the cap-bearer. Go to the mini-mart and wait for a sign, Mighty Max\". Shocked by the message, Max drops the statue, shattering it and revealing a red baseball cap emblazoned with a yellow \"M\", which he dons. The cap is capable of projecting wormhole-like \"portals\" through which Max can teleport across space and time.\n\nUpon arriving at the mini-mart, Max is chased by a lava-monster sent by antagonist 'Skullmaster'. As Max flees, the cap teleports them to the Mongolian desert, where he befriends Virgil, a nearly omniscient Lemurian whose appearance is that of an anthropomorphic \"fowl\" (a running gag in the series is that Max refers to Virgil as a \"chicken\" to which the Lemurian replies \"Fowl, actually\"), who explains that Max's reception of the cap was prophesied c. 3000 B.C. Thereafter Max, Virgil, and Norman, his Viking bodyguard, travel together around the world, defending Earth against the minions of Skullmaster, who is responsible for the downfall of the Lemurians and the people of Atlantis. Norman is supposedly immortal and identified as or with Sir Lancelot, Thor, Samson, and Hercules. Most plot-driving episodes involve Skullmaster or one of his monstrous followers; but in many episodes, Max is required to stop an independent villain. While all episodes involve travel across Earth, one involves time travel, and the portal can even extend into the astral plane (as seen in the episode \"Souls of Talon\").\n\nWhile generally lighthearted and comical, the show's violence and descriptions of violent acts were considered excessive by some viewers. Many episodes began with a depiction of the story's principal monster killing a victim; whereas the series finale featured Max, Norman, and Virgil pitted against Skullmaster and their previously defeated foes. Both Norman and Virgil are killed, leaving Max to defeat Skullmaster. Unable to do so, Max uses the cap in order to time travel to the events of the first episode, creating a time paradox. At first, he experiences \"déjà vu\"; but after he reads Virgil's modified letter, he recalls everything, and decides to set it right in order to defeat the Skullmaster.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSelect episodes of the show were released on VHS in NTSC and PAL formats.\n\nDespite its popularity, the series has never been available on DVD or any digital service.\n\nIn all episodes, a short ending scene preludes the credits, wherein Max is shown at his desk in his room, where he discusses with the audience some aspect of the episode in an educational way (similar to other children's cartoon series, including \"The Magic School Bus\"), usually the location where the events took place, the type of monster that was fought, etc. Occasionally, Max is shown in another setting such as a library or museum, or is simply heard recorded on an answering machine (such as \"Armageddon Outta Here\", the series finale); but these sequences were not broadcast on some channels, such as the British terrestrial airings on BBC1 (though included on the Nickelodeon airings). Generally, the educational messages at the end of each shows were of scientific, historical, or cultural significance (for example, the mythology of another culture; new astronomical theories of the time; the biology of a giant squid; or the fact that Native Americans were first believed to be Indians by European explorers).\n\nIn addition to the epilogue, facts are unobtrusively given in show, often by Virgil's comment.\n\nThe merchandising was far more popular than the show itself. Mighty Max toys were sold as play-sets of varying sizes with very small (usually non-articulated) figurines inside. Each play-set contained a Mighty Max figure as well as one or more villains and sometimes Virgil, Norman, or both. There were a small series of larger, more expensive play-sets with various mechanical and electronic features such as opening jaws (on an island play-set shaped as a dragon's head) and lights. Almost all episodes of the TV series were based at least loosely on one of the Mighty Max play-sets.\n\nIn 1994, due to the popularity of the play-sets at the time, the McDonald's Happy Meal offered a toy play-set featuring Mighty Max.\n\nIn February 1995, a video game, \"The Adventures of Mighty Max\", was released for the SNES and Sega Genesis/Mega Drive (which were packaged with a VHS copy of \"Day of the Cyclops\" and \"Let Sleeping Dragons Lie\", respectively.) A handheld game was also released by Tiger Electronics and Systema.\n\nThe show generated other merchandise such as a comic book (10 issues), a sticker album, at least one puzzle, and board games. In some countries, replicas of Max's cap were sold, although not all are officially licensed merchandise.\n\n"}
{"id": "8526527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8526527", "title": "Misunderstanding Cults", "text": "Misunderstanding Cults\n\nMisunderstanding Cults: Searching for Objectivity in a Controversial Field was edited by Benjamin Zablocki and Thomas Robbins. The book was published by University of Toronto Press, on December 1, 2001 and includes contributions from ten religious, sociological and psychological scholars.\n\nThe book is unique in that it includes contributions from scholars who have been labeled as \"anti-cult\", as well as those who have been labeled as \"cult apologists.\" The book features a section which discusses the need for scholarly objectivity when researching cults, as well as emphasizing the danger of partisanship while researching these controversial groups. Other topics discussed include brainwashing, cult violence, the conflict that exists between new religious movements and their critics, as well as the ramifications of raising children in controversial religious movements.\n\nThe book includes contributions from researchers with varied viewpoints on the subject of cults.\n\n\nWilliam Sims Bainbridge frames the book as part of the debate whether sociology of religion is truly scientific. He notes that a lot of the debate in the book is centered on the validity of brainwashing as a concept. He writes that \"In many respects this is an excellent book, containing insightful essays written from a variety of perspectives,\" noting however that \"Not a single paper in the collection makes use of quantitative data or conducts any other kind of formal theory testing,\" and decrying the scarcity of connections to research on group influence from social psychology or sociology in general. Bainbridge also writes that \"Some contributors use very harsh language in describing writers who disagree with them, each faction accusing the other of selling out and forsaking intellectual integrity for material gain either from the families who turn in desperation to the anti-cult movement for help with lost relatives, or from the cults themselves. It is a telling fact that several of the more polite writers refer to their colleagues as scholars rather than scientists, the implication being that they all operate outside any framework of precise measurement and hypothesis testing.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20038", "title": "Mondegreen", "text": "Mondegreen\n\nA mondegreen is a mishearing or misinterpretation of a phrase as a result of near-homophony, in a way that gives it a new meaning. Mondegreens are most often created by a person listening to a poem or a song; the listener, being unable to clearly hear a lyric, substitutes words that sound similar and make some kind of sense. American writer Sylvia Wright coined the term in 1954, writing about how as a girl she had misheard the lyric \"...and laid him on the green\" in a Scottish ballad as \"...and Lady Mondegreen\".\n\n\"Mondegreen\" was included in the 2000 edition of the \"Random House Webster's College Dictionary\", and in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" in 2002. Merriam-Webster's \"Collegiate Dictionary\" added the word in 2008. Examples in other languages include those cited by Fyodor Dostoyevsky, in the Hebrew song \"Háva Nagíla\" (\"Let's Be Happy\"), and in Bollywood films.\n\nA closely related category is a Hobson-Jobson, where a word from a foreign language is homophonically translated into one's own language, e.g. \"cockroach\" from Spanish \"cucaracha\". For misheard lyrics this phenomenon is called \"soramimi\", a Japanese term for homophonic translation of song lyrics. An unintentionally incorrect use of similar-sounding words or phrases, resulting in a changed meaning, is a malapropism. If there is a connection in meaning, it can be called an eggcorn. If a person stubbornly continues to mispronounce a word or phrase after being corrected, that person has committed a mumpsimus.\n\nIn a 1954 essay in \"Harper's Magazine\", Wright described how, as a young girl, she misheard the last line of the first stanza from the 17th-century ballad \"The Bonnie Earl o' Moray\". She wrote:\n\nThe actual fourth line is \"And \"laid him on the green\".\" Wright explained the need for a new term:\nHer essay had already described the bonny Earl holding the beautiful Lady Mondegreen's hand, both bleeding profusely but faithful unto death. She disputed:\n\nOther examples Wright suggested are:\n\nPeople are more likely to notice what they expect than things not part of their everyday experiences; this is known as confirmation bias. Similarly, one may mistake an unfamiliar stimulus for a familiar and more plausible version. For example, to consider a well-known mondegreen in the song \"Purple Haze\", one would be more likely to hear Jimi Hendrix singing that he is about to \"kiss this guy\" than that he is about to \"kiss the sky\". Similarly, if a lyric uses words or phrases that the listener is unfamiliar with, they may be misheard as using more familiar terms.\n\nThe creation of mondegreens may be driven in part by cognitive dissonance, as the listener finds it psychologically uncomfortable to listen to a song and not make out the words. Steven Connor suggests that mondegreens are the result of the brain's constant attempts to make sense of the world by making assumptions to fill in the gaps when it cannot clearly determine what it is hearing. Connor sees mondegreens as the \"wrenchings of nonsense into sense\".\nThis dissonance will be most acute when the lyrics are in a language the listener is fluent in.\nOn the other hand, Steven Pinker has observed that mondegreen mishearings tend to be \"less\" plausible than the original lyrics, and that once a listener has \"locked in\" to a particular misheard interpretation of a song's lyrics, it can remain unquestioned, even when that plausibility becomes strained. Pinker gives the example of a student \"stubbornly\" mishearing the chorus to \"Venus\" (\"I'm your Venus\") as \"I'm your penis,\" and being surprised that the song was allowed on the radio. The phenomenon may, in some cases, be triggered by people hearing \"what they want to hear\", as in the case of the song \"Louie Louie\": parents heard obscenities in the Kingsmen recording where none existed.\n\nJames Gleick claims that the mondegreen is a distinctly modern phenomenon. Without the improved communication and language standardization brought about by radio, he believes there would have been no way to recognize and discuss this shared experience. Just as mondegreens transform songs based on experience, a folk song learned by repetition is often transformed over time when sung by people in a region where some of the song's references have become obscure. A classic example is \"The Golden Vanity\", which contains the line \"As she sailed upon the lowland sea\". British immigrants carried the song to Appalachia, where singers, not knowing what the term \"lowland sea\" refers to, transformed it over generations from \"lowland\" to \"lonesome\".\n\nThe top three mondegreens submitted regularly to mondegreen expert Jon Carroll are:\n\n\nBoth Creedence's John Fogerty and Hendrix eventually acknowledged these mishearings by deliberately singing the \"mondegreen\" versions of their songs in concert.\n\nThe national anthem of the United States is highly susceptible (especially for young grade-school students) to the creation of mondegreens, two in the first line. Francis Scott Key's \"Star-Spangled Banner\" begins with the line: \"O say can you see, by the dawn's early light.\" This has been accidentally and deliberately misinterpreted as \"Jose, can you see\", another example of the Hobson-Jobson effect, countless times. The second half of the line has been misheard as well, as \"by the donzerly light\" or other variants. This has led to many people believing that \"donzerly\" is an actual word.\n\n\"Blinded by the Light\", a cover of a Bruce Springsteen song by Manfred Mann's Earth Band, contains what has been called \"probably the most misheard lyric of all time\". The phrase \"revved up like a deuce\", altered from Springsteen's original \"cut loose like a deuce,\" both lyrics referring to the hot rodders slang \"deuce\" (short for deuce coupé) for a 1932 Ford coupé, is frequently misheard as \"wrapped up like a douche\". Springsteen himself has joked about the phenomenon, claiming that it was not until Manfred Mann rewrote the song to be about a \"feminine hygiene product\" that the song became popular.\n\nA 2010 survey in Britain found that the most commonly misheard lyric was \"Call me when you try to wake her\" in R.E.M.'s \"The Sidewinder Sleeps Tonite,\" which was misheard as \"Calling Jamaica\" or \"Calling Cheryl Baker\" (in the United Kingdom). Other misheard lyrics reported in the survey included \"See that girl, watch her scream, kicking the dancing queen,\" from the ABBA song \"Dancing Queen\" (\"See that girl, watch that scene, diggin' the dancing queen\"). In the United Kingdom, the BBC received complaints after Billy Ocean had performed his song \"When the Going Gets Tough, the Tough Get Going\" on the TV show \"Top of the Pops\", because some viewers misheard the lyrics as \"go and get stuffed.\"\n\nRap and hip hop lyrics may be particularly susceptible to being misheard because they do not necessarily follow standard pronunciations. The delivery of rap lyrics relies heavily upon an often regional pronunciation or non-traditional accenting of words and their phonemes to adhere to the artist's stylizations and the lyrics's written structure. This issue is exemplified in controversies over alleged transcription errors in Yale University Press's 2010 \"Anthology of Rap.\" For example, in the 2015 song \"Post To Be\" by Omarion ft. Chris Brown & Jhené Aiko, Aiko's lyric \"I might have that nigga sailing his soul for me\" was widely misheard as \"selling his soul\" but it was really a play on the title of Aiko's mixtape \"Sailing Soul(s)\".\n\nSometimes, the modified version of a lyric becomes standard, as is the case with \"The Twelve Days of Christmas\". The original has \"four colly birds\" (\"colly\" means \"black\"; cf. \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\": \"Brief as the lightning in the collied night.\"); sometime around the turn of the twentieth century, these became \"calling\" birds, which is the lyric used in the 1909 Frederic Austin version.\n\nA number of misheard lyrics have been recorded, turning a mondegreen into a real title. The song \"Sea Lion Woman\", recorded in 1939 by Christine and Katherine Shipp, was performed by Nina Simone under the title \"See Line Woman\". According to the liner notes from the compilation \"A Treasury of Library of Congress Field Recordings\", the actual title of this playground song might also be \"See [the] Lyin' Woman\" or \"C-Line Woman\". Jack Lawrence's misinterpretation of the French phrase \"pauvre Jean\" (\"poor John\") as the identically pronounced \"pauvres gens\" (\"poor people\") led to the translation of \"La Goualante du pauvre Jean\" (\"The Ballad of Poor John\") as \"The Poor People of Paris\", a hit song in 1956.\n\n\"A Monk Swimming\" by author Malachy McCourt is so titled because of a childhood mishearing of a phrase from the Catholic rosary prayer, Hail Mary. \"Amongst women\" became \"a monk swimmin'\".\n\nThe title and plot of the short sci-fi story \"Come You Nigh: Kay Shuns\" (\"Com-mu-ni-ca-tions\") by Lawrence A. Perkins, in \"Analog Science Fiction and Fact\" magazine (April 1970), deals with securing interplanetary radio communications by encoding them with mondegreens.\n\nIn Beverly Cleary's children's book \"Ramona the Pest\", Ramona mishears \"by the dawn's early light\" as \"by the dawnzer lee light\" and concludes that a \"dawnzer\" must be a kind of lamp.\n\n\"Olive, the Other Reindeer\" is a 1997 children's book by Vivian Walsh, which borrows its title from a mondegreen of the line \"all of the other reindeer\" in the song \"Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer\". The book was adapted into an animated Christmas special in 1999.\n\nA monologue of mondegreens appears in the 1971 film \"Carnal Knowledge\". The camera focuses on actress Candice Bergen laughing as she recounts various phrases that fooled her as a child, including \"Round John Virgin\" (instead of '\"Round yon virgin...\") and \"Gladly, the cross-eyed bear\".\n\nThe enigmatic title of the 2013 film \"Ain't Them Bodies Saints\" is actually a misheard lyric from a folk song; director David Lowery decided to use it because it evoked the \"classical, regional\" feel of 1970s rural Texas.\n\n\"Mondegreens\" was the name of a segment on the Australian music quiz show \"Spicks and Specks\" (ABC TV).\n\nMondegreens have been used in many television advertising campaigns, including:\n\nThe traditional game Chinese whispers (\"Telephone\" in the United States) involves mishearing a whispered sentence to produce successive mondegreens that gradually distort the original sentence as it is repeated by successive listeners.\n\nAmong schoolchildren in the U.S., daily rote recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance has long provided opportunities for the genesis of mondegreens.\n\nThe travel guide book series Lonely Planet is named after the misheard phrase \"lovely planet\" sung by Joe Cocker in Matthew Moore's song \"Space Captain\".\nIn Dutch, mondegreens are popularly referred to as \"Mama appelsap\" (\"Mommy applejuice\"), from the Michael Jackson song \"Wanna Be Startin' Somethin'\" which features the lyrics \"Mama-se mama-sa ma-ma-coo-sa\", and was once misheard as \"Mama say mama sa mam[a]appelsap\". The Dutch radio station 3FM had a show \"Superrradio\" (originally \"Timur Open Radio\") run by Timur Perlin and Ramon with an item in which listeners were encouraged to send in mondegreens under the name \"Mama appelsap\". The segment was popular for years.\n\nThe title of the film \"La Vie en rose\" depicting the life of Édith Piaf can be mistaken for \"L'Avion rose\" (The pink airplane).\n\nThe French word \"lapalissade\", designating a gross truism or platitude, is derived from the name of Jacques II de Chabannes, Seigneur de La Palice, because of a misread mondegreen in a mourning song written just after his heroic death. Reading an \"f\" as a long \"s\" (ſ), \"s'il n'était pas mort, il ferait encore envie\" (\"if he were not dead, he would still arouse envy\") becomes \"il serait encore en vie\" (\"he would still be alive\"). This truism remains as the first and most well-known \"lapalissade\" in French.\n\nThe title of the 1983 French novel \"Le Thé au harem d'Archi Ahmed\" (\"Tea in the Harem of Archi Ahmed\") by Mehdi Charef (and the 1985 movie of the same name) is based on the main character mishearing \"le théorème d'Archimède\" (\"the theorem of Archimedes\") in his mathematics class.\n\nA classic example in French is similar to the \"Lady Mondegreen\" anecdote: in his 1962 collection of children's quotes \"La Foire aux cancres\", the humorist Jean-Charles refers to a misunderstood lyric of \"La Marseillaise\" (the French national anthem): \"Entendez-vous ... mugir ces féroces soldats\" (Do you hear those savage soldiers roar?) is heard as \"...Séféro, ce soldat\" (that soldier Séféro).\n\nMondegreens are a well-known phenomenon in German, especially where (often non-German songs are concerned); which are sometimes called, after two well-known examples, \"Agathe Bauer\"-songs (\"I got the power\", a song by Snap!, transferred to a German female name). Journalist Axel Hacke published a series of books about them, beginning with \"Der weiße Neger Wumbaba\" (\"The White Negro Wumbaba\", after the line \"der weiße Nebel wunderbar\" from Der Mond ist aufgegangen).\n\nIt is at least an urban legend that children, when painting nativity scenes, occasionally include next to the Child, Mary, Joseph, the shepherds and so forth yet another, laughing creature: This is the \"Owi\", who must be depicted laughing. The reason is to be found in the line \"Gottes Sohn! O wie lacht / Lieb' aus Deinem göttlichen Mund\" (God's Son! Oh, how does love laugh out of Thy divine mouth!) from Silent Night. The subject is \"Lieb'\", but it is a poetic contraction of \"die Liebe\", leaving away the final -e and the definite article (in German, though not in English, mandatory in such a context), so the phrase is not easily understood and it might well be a statement about a person named Owi laughing \"in a loveable manner\" (the adverb \"lieb\"), although the rest of the sentence still makes no sense. \"Owi lacht\" is the title of at least one book about Christmas and Christmas songs.\n\nGhil'ad Zuckermann cites the Hebrew example \"mukhrakhím liyót saméakh\" (\"we must be happy\", with a grammar mistake) instead of (the high-register) \"úru 'akhím belév saméakh\" (\"wake up, brothers, with a happy heart\"), from the well-known song \"Háva Nagíla\" (\"Let's be happy\").\nThe Israeli site dedicated to Hebrew mondegreens has coined the term \"avatiach\" (Hebrew for watermelon) for \"mondegreen\", named for a common mishearing of Shlomo Artzi's award-winning 1970 song \"Ahavtia\" (\"I loved her\", using a form uncommon in spoken Hebrew).\n\nA paper in phonology cites memoirs of poet Antoni Słonimski, who confessed that in the recited poem \"Konrad Wallenrod\" he used to hear \"zwierz Alpuhary\" (\"a beast of Alpujarras\") rather than \"z wież Alpuhary\" (\"from the towers of Alpujarras\").\n\nThe most well-known mondegreen in Brazil is in the song \"Noite do Prazer\" (Night of Pleasure) by Claudio Zoli: the line \"Na madrugada a vitrola rolando um blues, tocando B. B. King sem parar\" (At dawn the phonograph playing a blues, playing B. B. King nonstop), is often misheard as \"Na madrugada a vitrola rolando um blues, trocando de biquini sem parar\" (at dawn the phonograph playing a blues, [people are] exchanging bikini nonstop).\n\nRussian author Fyodor Dostoyevsky, in 1875, cited a line from Fyodor Glinka's song \"Troika\" (1825) \"колокольчик, дар Валдая\" (\"the bell, gift of Valday\") claiming that it is usually understood as \"колокольчик, дарвалдая\" (\"the bell \"darvaldaying\"\"—supposedly an onomatopoeia of ringing).\n\nIn Turkey, the political Democratic Party changed its logo in 2007 to a white horse in front of a red background because many voters mispronounced its Turkish name \"Demokrat\", instead saying \"demir kırat\" (\"iron white-horse\").\n\nA reverse mondegreen is the intentional production, in speech or writing, of words or phrases that seem to be gibberish but disguise meaning. A prominent example is \"Mairzy Doats\", a 1943 novelty song by Milton Drake, Al Hoffman, and Jerry Livingston. The lyrics are a reverse mondegreen, made up of oronyms, so pronounced (and written) as to challenge the listener (or reader) to interpret them:\n\nThe clue to the meaning is contained in the bridge:\n\nWith that clue, the listener can figure out that the last line is \"a kid'll eat ivy, too; wouldn't you?\"\n\nOther examples include:\n\nTwo authors have written books of supposed foreign-language poetry that are actually mondegreens of nursery rhymes in English. Luis van Rooten's pseudo-French \"\" includes critical, historical, and interpretive apparatus, as does John Hulme's \"Mörder Guss Reims\", attributed to a fictitious German poet. Both titles sound like the phrase \"Mother Goose Rhymes\". Both works can also be considered soramimi, which produces different meanings when interpreted in another language. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart produced a similar effect in his canon \"Difficile Lectu\" (written c. 1786-87, when he was 30 or 31), which, though ostensibly in Latin, is actually an opportunity for scatological humor in both German and Italian.\n\nSome performers and writers have used deliberate mondegreens to create double entendres. The phrase \"if you see Kay\" (F-U-C-K) has been employed many times, notably as a line from James Joyce's 1922 novel \"Ulysses\" and in many songs, including by blues pianist Memphis Slim in 1963, R. Stevie Moore in 1977, April Wine on its 1982 album \"Power Play\", the Poster Children via their \"Daisy Chain Reaction\" in 1991, Turbonegro in 2005, Aerosmith in \"Devil's Got a New Disguise\" in 2006, and The Script in their 2008 song \"If You See Kay\". Britney Spears did the same thing with the song \"If U Seek Amy\". A similar effect was created in Hindi in the 2011 Bollywood movie \"Delhi Belly\" in the song \"Bhaag D.K. Bose\". While \"D. K. Bose\" appears to be a person's name, it is sung repeatedly in the chorus to form the deliberate mondegreen \"bhosadi ke\" (Hindi: भोसडी के), a Hindi expletive.\n\n\"Mondegreen\" is a song by Yeasayer on their 2010 album, \"Odd Blood\". The lyrics are intentionally obscure (for instance, \"Everybody sugar in my bed\" and \"Perhaps the pollen in the air turns us into a stapler\") and spoken hastily to encourage the mondegreen effect.\n\nNotes\nCitations\n\n"}
{"id": "52307402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52307402", "title": "Nordic Society for Middle Eastern Studies", "text": "Nordic Society for Middle Eastern Studies\n\nThe Nordic Society for Middle Eastern Studies is a learned society formed in 1989 that is devoted to the promotion of the academic study of the Middle East in the Nordic region. The Society arranges an academic conference on Middle Eastern studies, held every three years in a different Nordic country. The 2016 conference was hosted by the University of Southern Denmark in Odense. The current chairperson of the Nordic Society is Leif Stenberg, who is director of the Center for Middle Eastern Studies at Lund University.\n"}
{"id": "19750478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19750478", "title": "On the Trail of the Assassins", "text": "On the Trail of the Assassins\n\nOn the Trail of the Assassins is a 1988 book by Jim Garrison, detailing his role in indicting businessman Clay Shaw for conspiracy to kill U.S. President John F. Kennedy, therefore holding the only trial held for Kennedy's murder. Garrison dedicated \"On the Trail of the Assassins\" to the following New Orleans district attorney's staff who served in the 1960s: Frank Klein, Andrew \"Moo Moo\" Sciambra, James Alcock, Louis Ivon, D'Alton Williams, Alvin Oser, and Numa Bertel. He also cites the many others who aided him.\n\nThe book was partially adapted by Oliver Stone into the 1991 film \"JFK\". The film stars Kevin Costner as Garrison, Tommy Lee Jones as Shaw, and Jim Garrison as Earl Warren.\n\n"}
{"id": "10037489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10037489", "title": "Opie and Anthony's Traveling Virus Comedy Tour", "text": "Opie and Anthony's Traveling Virus Comedy Tour\n\nOpie and Anthony's Traveling Virus was a comedy-based concert tour starting in 2006 and ending in 2008. It starred comedians featured on the Opie and Anthony show on XM Satellite Radio and CBS Radio.\n\nThe tour was a goal of Opie and Anthony's since coming together as a radio talk duo in Long Island in the early 1990s. The tour was intended to reward the comedians that had been guesting on the show over the years, and to serve as a thank you to fans nationwide. They were finally able to present the tour in 2006 because of their terrestrial radio deal with CBS.\n\nThe tour appeared in four cities over four dates. The most notable of them was Philadelphia due to an incident where comedian Bill Burr went on a 12-minute tirade attacking the audience after the previous act, Dom Irrera, was heckled heavily by the crowd. A cell phone video recording of the rant has been posted on various video hosting sites. The video was also added onto the DVD release of Burr's Why Do I Do This? comedy special as an extra.\n\nThe 2007 show debuted in Las Vegas, Nevada, seven additional shows were announced following this event.\n\nDue to comedians being consistently booed during the 2007 tour, following Burr's moment in 2006, the 2008 full tour was eventually canceled in favor of one final show held on August 2, 2008. According to Opie and Anthony the tour was cancelled due to the crowd consistently booing new comedians off the stage.\n\nShow 1 — August 5, 2006 — Worcester, Massachusetts – DCU Center\n\nShow 2 — August 26, 2006 — Holmdel, New Jersey – PNC Bank Arts Center\n\nShow 3 — September 9, 2006 — Camden, New Jersey – Tweeter Center\n\nShow 4 — September 23, 2006 — Cleveland, Ohio – Tower City Amphitheatre\n\nShow 5 — April 14, 2007 — Las Vegas, Nevada – \"The Joint\" at Hard Rock Hotel and Casino\n\nShow 6 — June 16, 2007 — Wantagh, New York – \"Jones Beach Amphitheater\"\n\nShow 7 — June 30, 2007 — Uncasville, Connecticut – \"Mohegan Sun Arena\"\n\nShow 8 — July 21, 2007 — Mansfield, Massachusetts – \"Tweeter Center\"\n\nShow 9 — August 4, 2007 — Detroit, Michigan – \"DTE Energy Music Theatre\"\n\nShow 10 — August 18, 2007 — Bristow, Virginia – \"Nissan Pavilion\"\n\nShow 11 — August 25, 2007 — Holmdel, New Jersey – \"PNC Bank Arts Center\"\n\nShow 12 — September 15, 2007 — Camden, New Jersey – \"Tweeter Center\"\n\nShow 13 — August 2, 2008 Holmdel, New Jersey – \"PNC Bank Arts Center\"\n"}
{"id": "21500494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21500494", "title": "Ottawa phonology", "text": "Ottawa phonology\n\nOttawa (also spelled Odawa) is a dialect of the Ojibwe language spoken in a series of communities in southern Ontario and a smaller number of communities in northern Michigan. Ottawa has a phonological inventory of seventeen consonants and seven oral vowels; in addition, there are long nasal vowels the phonological status of which are discussed below. An overview of general Ojibwa phonology and phonetics can be found in the article on Ojibwe phonology. The Ottawa writing system described in Modern orthography is used to write Ottawa words, with transcriptions in the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) used as needed.\n\nSignificant innovations in Ottawa phonology differentiate it from other dialects of Ojibwe. It is characterized by a pervasive pattern of vowel syncope, by which short vowels are completely deleted or in certain circumstances reduced to schwa , when they appear in metrically defined Weak syllables. The notable effects of Syncope are:\n\nConsonants are written using the conventional symbol from the Ottawa writing system, with the symbol from the International Phonetic Alphabetic (IPA) following where the two vary.\n\nThe stop, fricative, and affricate consonants are divided into two sets, conventionally referred to as Fortis and Lenis, or equivalently 'Strong' and 'Weak.' Each fortis consonant is matched with a corresponding lenis consonant with the same place of articulation and manner of articulation.\n\nThe fortis consonants (\"p, t, k, ch, s, sh\") are invariably voiceless and phonetically long. The stops are also aspirated in most positions: , , , , but unaspirated after another consonant.\n\nThe lenis consonants (\"b, d, g, j, z, zh\") are typically voiced intervocalically and word-initially before a vowel but are devoiced in word-final position. They are also often subject to other phonological processes when adjacent to fortis consonants.\n\nA number of consonants occur only in loanwords from English: \"f, r, l\".\n\nThe labialized stop consonants and also occur in the speech of some speakers. Labialization is not normally indicated, but a subscript dot is utilized in , a dictionary of Ottawa and Eastern Ojibwe, to mark labialization: \"ɡ̣taaji\" ('s/he is afraid') and \"aaḳzi\" ('s/he is sick.')\n\nThe contrast between fortis and lenis consonants has been interpreted as a distinction between geminate and non-geminate consonants. However, it has also been argued that Ottawa fortis consonants should be analysed as consonant clusters. In support of this analysis, Ottawa fortis consonants correspond to clusters of /h/ followed by a lenis consonant in the dialects of northwestern Ontario, and the fortis consonants are descended from sequences of consonants in Proto-Algonquian, the reconstructed ancestor language from which Ojibwe and its dialects descend.\n\nOttawa has seven oral vowel sounds, four long and three short. The long vowels \"ii, oo, aa\" are paired with the corresponding short vowels \"i, o, a.\" The long \"e\" has no corresponding short vowel. The phonological distinction between long vowels and short vowels plays a significant role in Ottawa phonology. Only short vowels can be metrically Weak and hence candidates for Syncope. Similarly long vowels are invariably metrically Strong and are never deleted.\n\nThe table gives the orthographic symbol and the primary phonetic values for each vowel.\n\nThere are also four nasal vowels, often occurring in the final syllable of nouns with diminutive suffixes or words with a diminutive connotation; orthographically the long vowel is followed by word-final <nh> to indicate that the vowel is nasal, but the use of <h> is an orthographic convention and does not correspond to an independent segment. Some analyses treat the long nasal vowels as phonemic, while others treat them as derived by rule from sequences of long vowel followed by . , in his study of the related Southwestern Ojibwa dialect spoken in Minnesota describes the status of the analogous vowels as unclear, noting that while the distribution of the long nasal vowels is restricted, there is a minimal pair \"giiwe\" ('s/he goes home' and \"giiwenh\" ('so the stories goes'). Other presentations of Ojibwe phonology are silent on the issue.\n\nOttawa also has nasalized vowels that arise from combinations of a vowel and a nasal consonant followed by a fricative. These secondarily nasal vowels are predictable and are not part of the Ottawa inventory of vowel phonemes.\n\nOttawa (and Eastern Ojibwa) are characterized by a pervasive pattern of vowel syncope, whereby short vowels are completely deleted or in certain circumstances reduced to schwa [ə], when they appear in metrically defined Weak syllables, discussed below. Syncope sharply distinguishes Ottawa and Eastern Ojibwa from other dialects of Ojibwe, although related patterns of syncope primarily affecting word-initial syllables have also been recorded for Ojibwe communities along the north shore of Lake Superior, between Thunder Bay and Sault Ste. Marie.\n\nSyncope has had far-reaching effects in Ottawa, resulting in significant changes in the pronunciation and representation of words, prefixes, and suffixes, and increasing the distinctiveness of Ottawa relative to other dialects of Ojibwe. Syncope has also resulted in the introduction of new forms for person prefixes on nouns and verbs, and the deletion of vowels between consonants has resulted in new secondary consonant sequences, which in some cases results in further adjustments in the pronunciation of consonant sequences. Syncope has increased the amount of variability in the pronunciation of words that contains vowels subject to Syncope.\n\nThe patterns of syncope are not new in Ottawa, and are attested in the Ottawa material that linguist Leonard Bloomfield recorded in the late 1930s from Andrew Medler, an Ottawa speaker originally from Michigan who spent most of his life at Walpole Island. Although reduction and syncope effects in Walpole Island Ottawa were noted in , and treated by him as vowel reduction, the situation was not identical in all Ottawa materials collected in approximately the same period. Material collected by Bloomfield in 1941 from Ottawa speaker Angeline Williams, then residing at Sugar Island, Michigan, east of Sault Ste. Marie show no sign of Syncope. Williams was born at Manistique, Michigan in 1872. As well, material collected by C. F. Voegelin from Ottawa speaker Gregor McGregor of Birch Island, Ontario (immediately north of Manitoulin Island) shows only a very limited amount of Syncope. McGregor was born in 1869.\n\nSyncope is also sociolinguistically complex in terms of the way it is realized by different speakers of Ottawa, as distinct patterns have been noted that involve age grading and regional variation within Ottawa-speaking territory. notes that for older speakers, in particular at Manitoulin Island, deletion of short vowels is \"…a kind of casual speech phenomena, and the vowels can be easily resupplied (with only some ambiguity of quality).\" By comparison, for younger speakers and for older speakers elsewhere, such as the Lower Peninsula of Michigan, deletion of short vowels is categorical.\n\nThe Potawatomi language also has rules that affect short vowels, reducing them to schwa and also deleting them under conditions similar to Ottawa. The Potawatomi phenomena were recorded as early as the 1830s, whereas Ottawa materials from the same period do not show any signs of vowel reduction or deletion. The rise of extensive Syncope in Ottawa may be a substratum effect related to the migration of Potawatomi speakers to Ottawa-speaking communities in southern Ontario in the late nineteenth century.\n\nDistinct unrelated patterns of syncope in more restricted contexts are also found in northern dialects, in particular Severn Ojibwa and Algonquin.\n\nIn the following table, differences in pronunciation between non-syncopating varieties of Ojibwa and the syncopating Ottawa and Eastern Ojibwa are shown.\n\nOjibwe syllables are organized into metrical Feet. A Foot consists of a minimum of one syllable, and a maximum of two syllables. Syllables are either Weak or Strong. Each foot contains no more one than one Strong syllable. Taken together, the metrical Foot in combination with Weak and Strong syllables define the domain for relative prominence, in which a Strong syllable is more prominent than the weak member of the Foot. The following summarizes material in .\n\nSyllable weight plays a significant role in Ottawa phonology, determining stress placement and syncope. Several general principles determine syllable weight.\n\nAssignment of syllable weight starts at the left edge of a word and proceeds left to right.\n\n1. All syllables containing long vowels are Strong. \n2. Counting left to right from the beginning of the word, in a sequence of two or more syllables containing short vowels the odd-numbered syllable is Weak and the even-numbered syllable is Strong. \n3. The final syllable of a word is always Strong.\n\nPossible feet are listed below. The first two-foot types are iambic, i.e. alternating Weak-Strong.\n\nWeak vowels are subject to syncope.\n\nAddition of inflectional prefixes or suffixes can change the syllable weight assignment of a word. As a result, a short vowel may be exempt from Syncope because it is in a metrically Strong syllable in one form of a word, but may be eligible for Syncope because the addition of a prefix or suffix changes the syllable weight of the same syllable in a related form of the word.\n\nIn a word such as Ojibwa \"makizin\" ('shoe') (in non-syncopating dialects) the first two syllables are Weak and Strong, respectively (by rule 3 above), while the final syllable is Strong (by rule 2).\n\nIn Ottawa, the first vowel is deleted: \"mkizin.\"\n\nThe personal prefix /ni-/ ('first person') can be added to a noun such as \"makizin\": \"nimakizin\" ('my shoe'). The first two syllables are then Weak and Strong respectively, and the third and fourth syllables are also Weak and Strong respectively. Because the first and third syllables are weak, they are deleted in this word in Ottawa: \"nmakzin.\" Hence in the form of the word without a prefix the first vowel is deleted because it is in a Weak syllable; in the form with the person prefix the same vowel is in a Strong syllable and is not deleted.\n\nSimilarly, the same noun can also occur with the inanimate plural suffix /-an/, as in General Ojibwe \"makizinan\" ('shoes'). In this word the metrical structure is Weak-Strong Weak-Strong. In the Ottawa form the first and third vowels are deleted: \"mkiznan.\" The vowel that was in the final Strong syllable in the singular form \"makizin\" and hence exempt from syncope is now in a Weak syllable because of the following suffix, and is eligible for deletion.\n\nThe Ojibwe word 'my shoes' (non-syncopating dialects) has both the personal prefix and the plural suffix: \"nimakizinan.\" In this five-syllable word the metrical structure is Weak-Strong Weak-Strong Strong. The first and third syllables are metrically weak and are deleted in Ottawa: \"nmakzinan.\"\n\nIn the table below 'W' represents Weak syllables and 'S' represents Strong syllables. An asterisk (*) represents the boundary between Feet.\n\nThe basic form of a noun or verb word without any inflectional prefixes or suffixes is referred to as the stem.\n\nThe interaction between the combinations of prefixes and suffixes and Syncope results in the Ottawa word stem for 'shoe' having three different shapes or allomorphs where other non-syncopating dialects have only one allomorph for this word stem.\n\nIn some cases a short vowel in a word may be metrically Weak in a particular variant of a word (and hence deleted) or it may be metrically strong and hence retained. However, in certain words a short vowel may be in a position where it would always be Weak and therefore always deleted. For such words, it cannot be deduced from synchronic Ottawa language material which of the short vowels /i, a, o/ was present in the historical pre-Syncope form of the word. Here, the quality of the vowel can only be determined by examining the form of the word in other dialects of Ojbwe that have not been affected by Syncope, or by referring to earlier sources for Ottawa, such as Baraga's late nineteenth-century dictionary. For example, the Ottawa word \"naawkwe\" ('be midday') originally had a vowel between the first \"w\" and \"k\". In other dialects this word has the form \"naawakwe\". In Ottawa, however, for the majority of speakers the short vowel \"a\" is never realized and for these speakers there is no reason to believe that the vowel is present in any representation of the word; hence the underlying representation of the word is different for Ottawa speakers.\n\nSyncope creates secondary consonant clusters that are distinguished from consonant clusters that occur in all Ojibwe dialects. Secondary clusters are subject to a range of adjustments.\n\nSyncope affects sequences of the form /CVC.../ (Consonant Vowel Consonant) by deleting the Weak vowel, creating a secondary cluster of the form [CC...]. The affected consonants may be identical or different.\n\n\"1. Neutralization of Lenis Stops Before a Nasal. \"\n\nThe lenis stops \"b, d, g\" before a nasal consonant may optionally be realized as the corresponding nasal consonant \"m, n, ŋ\", although \"g\" is the least likely to undergo this shift.\n\n\"2. Neutralization of Lenis Consonants Before a Fortis Consonant.\"\nLenis consonants (\"b, d, g, z, zh\") occurring before a homorganic fortis consonant (\"p, t, k, s, zh\") are deleted. The examples cited below have fortis fricative consonants as the second element in the consonant sequence. Other examples include \"bp → p; dt → t; gk → k.\"\n\nSecondarily-arising word-initial consonant clusters reflect a pattern of Reduplication of verb roots that forms many Ottawa words. This pattern has been effectively eliminated in Ottawa through the restructuring of these consonant clusters.\n\n\"3. Neutralization of Initial Nasal / Approximant Consonants Before a Homorganic Nasal / Approximant Consonant.\"\nWord-initial sequences of two identical nasal consonants or \"w\" are normally reduced to a single consonant; pronunciations with doubled consonants are rare.\n\n\"4. Neutralization of Word-Initial Identical Lenis Consonants\"\n\nSequences of word-initial lenis consonants (\"b, d, g, z, zh\") are reduced in two slightly different patterns.\nIn the first, a sequence of two identical lenis fricatives is reduced to a single consonant.\n\nIn the second pattern, in a sequence of two identical lenis stops, the consonant cluster is variably realized as (i) a sequence of two lenis stops; (ii) the corresponding fortis stop, or (iii) a single lenis stop.\n\nWeak short /i/ is also realized as /a/ in certain words in the initial syllable of noun or verb stems. This phenomenon is prominent in the material collected from Angeline Williams by Bloomfield cited above, and also occurs in the Ottawa material in . These data sets do not reflect Ottawa Syncope. Although this alternation also occurs in other dialects, it is most widespread in earlier Ottawa. There does not appear to be a general phonological conditioning factor for this variation, which arguably is determined lexically, i.e. on a word by word basis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34517864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34517864", "title": "P.K.R. Arts College for Women", "text": "P.K.R. Arts College for Women\n\nP.K.R. Arts College for Women (P.K.R.) is an arts and science college affiliated to Bharathiar University located in Gobichettipalayam, Tamil Nadu, India. It was founded in 1994. \n\nThe college was established in the year 1994 by Dhandapani Rural Charitable Trust. It is a women's college and is affiliated to Bharathiar University, Coimbatore. P.K.R. School of Management was later established in 1997. The M.B.A. & M.C.A. courses are approved by AICTE, New Delhi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4170455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4170455", "title": "PDF/A", "text": "PDF/A\n\nPDF/A is an ISO-standardized version of the Portable Document Format (PDF) specialized for use in the archiving and long-term preservation of electronic documents. PDF/A differs from PDF by prohibiting features unsuitable for long-term archiving, such as font linking (as opposed to font embedding) and encryption. The ISO requirements for PDF/A file viewers include color management guidelines, support for embedded fonts, and a user interface for reading embedded annotations.\n\nPDF is a standard for encoding documents in an \"as printed\" form that is portable between systems. However, the suitability of a PDF file for archival preservation depends on options chosen when the PDF is created: most notably, whether to embed the necessary fonts for rendering the document; whether to use encryption; and whether to preserve additional information from the original document beyond what is needed to print it.\n\nPDF/A was originally a new joint activity between the Association for Suppliers of Printing, Publishing and Converting Technologies (NPES) and the Association for Information and Image Management to develop an international standard defining the use of the Portable Document Format (PDF) for archiving documents. The goal was to address the growing need to electronically archive documents in a way that would ensure preservation of their contents over an extended period of time and ensure that those documents would be able to be retrieved and rendered with a consistent and predictable result in the future. This need exists in a wide variety of government and industry areas worldwide, including legal systems, libraries, newspapers, and regulated industries.\n\nThe PDF/A standard does not define an archiving strategy or the goals of an archiving system. It identifies a \"profile\" for electronic documents that ensures the documents can be reproduced exactly the same way using various software in years to come. A key element to this reproducibility is the requirement for PDF/A documents to be 100% self-contained. All of the information necessary for displaying the document in the same manner is embedded in the file. This includes, but is not limited to, all content (text, raster images and vector graphics), fonts, and color information. A PDF/A document is not permitted to be reliant on information from external sources (e.g. font programs and data streams), but may include annotations (e.g. hypertext links) that link to external documents.\n\nOther key elements to PDF/A conformance include:\n\nPart 1 of the standard was first published on September 28, 2005, and specifies two levels of conformance for PDF files:\n\n\nLevel B conformance requires only that standards necessary for the reliable reproduction of a document's visual appearance be followed, while Level A conformance includes all Level B requirements in addition to features intended to improve a document's accessibility.\n\nAdditional Level A requirements:\n\nLevel A conformance was intended to increase the accessibility of conforming files for physically impaired users by allowing assistive software, such as screen readers, to more precisely extract and interpret a file's contents. A later standard, PDF/UA, was developed to eliminate what became considered some of PDF/A's shortcomings, replacing many of its general guidelines with more detailed technical specifications.\n\nPart 2 of the standard, published on June 20, 2011, addresses some of the new features added with versions 1.5, 1.6 and 1.7 of the PDF Reference. PDF/A-1 files will not necessarily conform to PDF/A-2, and PDF/A-2 compliant files will not necessarily conform to PDF/A-1.\n\nPart 2 of the PDF/A Standard is based on a PDF 1.7 (ISO 32000-1), rather than PDF 1.4 and offers a number of new features:\n\nPart 2 defines three conformance levels. PDF/A-2a and PDF/A-2b correspond to conformance levels a and b in PDF/A-1. A new conformance level, PDF/A-2u, represents Level B conformance (PDF/A-2b) with the additional requirement that all text in the document have Unicode mapping.\n\nPart 3 of the standard, published on October 15, 2012, differs from PDF/A-2 in only one regard – it allows embedding of arbitrary file formats (such as XML, CSV, CAD, word-processing documents, spreadsheet documents, and others) into PDF/A conforming documents.\n\nPart 4 of the standard, based on PDF 2.0, is expected to be published in 2019.\n\nA PDF/A document can be identified as such through PDF/A-specific metadata located in the <nowiki>\"http://www.aiim.org/pdfa/ns/id/\"</nowiki> namespace. This metadata represents a claim of conformance; in itself it does not ensure conformance:\n\n\nIndustry collaboration in the original PDF/A Competence Center led to the development of the Isartor Test Suite in 2007 and 2008. The test suite consists of 204 PDF files intentionally constructed to systematically fail each of the requirements for PDF/A-1b conformance, allowing developers to test the ability of their software to validate against the standard's most basic level of conformance. By mid-2009 the test suite had already made an appreciable difference in the general quality of PDF/A validation software.\n\nThe veraPDF consortium, led by the Open Preservation Foundation and the PDF Association, was created in response to the EU Commission's PREFORMA challenge to develop an open-source validator for the PDF/A format. The PDF Association launched the PDF Validation Technical Working Group in November 2014 to articulate a plan for developing an industry-supported PDF/A validator.\n\nThe veraPDF consortium subsequently won phase 2 of the PREFORMA contract in April 2015. Development continued throughout 2016, with Phase 2 completed on-schedule by December 2016. The Phase 3 testing and acceptance period concluded in July, 2017. veraPDF now covers all parts (1, 2 and 3) and conformance levels (a, b, u) of PDF/A.\n\nveraPDF is available for installation on Windows, macOS, or Linux using a PDFBox-based or \"Greenfields\" PDF parser.\n\nThe PDF/A specification also states some requirements for a conforming PDF/A viewer, which must\n\nWhen encountering a file that claims conformance with PDF/A, some PDF viewers will default to a special \"PDF/A viewing mode\" to fulfill conforming reader requirements. To take one example, Adobe Acrobat and Adobe Reader 9 include an alert to advise the user that PDF/A viewing mode has been activated. Some PDF viewers allow users to disable the PDF/A viewing mode or to remove the PDF/A information from a file.\n\nA PDF/A document must embed all fonts in use; accordingly, a PDF/A file will often be larger than an equivalent PDF file that does not include embedded fonts.\n\nThe use of transparency is forbidden in PDF/A-1. The majority of PDF generation tools that allow for PDF/A document compliance, such as the PDF export in OpenOffice.org or PDF export tool in Microsoft Office 2007 suites, will also make any transparent images in a given document non-transparent. That restriction was removed in PDF/A-2.\n\nSome archivists have voiced concerns that PDF/A-3, which allows arbitrary files to be embedded in PDF/A documents, could result in circumvention of memory institution procedures and restrictions on archived formats.\n\nThe PDF Association had addressed various misconceptions regarding PDF/A in its publication \"PDF/A in a Nutshell 2.0\".\n\nConverting a PDF (up to version 1.4) into a PDF/A-2 usually works as expected, except for problems with glyphs. According to the PDF Association, \"Problems can occur before and/or during the generation of PDFs. A PDF/A file can be formally correct yet still have incorrect glyphs. Only a careful visual check can uncover this problem. Because generation problems also affect Unicode mapping, the problem attracts the attention when a visual check is carried out on the extracted text.\nIn PDF/A, text/font usage is specified uniquely enough to ensure that it cannot be incorrect.\nIf viewers or printers do not offer complete support for encoding systems, this can result in problems with regard to PDF/A.\" Meaning that for a document to be completely compliant with the standard, it will be correct internally, while the system used for viewing or printing the document may produce undesired results.\n\nA document produced with OCR conversion into PDF/A-2 or PDF/A-3 doesn't support the notdefglyph flag. Therefore, this type of conversion can result in unrendered content.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17749016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17749016", "title": "Pevsner Architectural Guides", "text": "Pevsner Architectural Guides\n\nThe Pevsner Architectural Guides are a series of guide books to the architecture of Great Britain and Ireland. Begun in the 1940s by the art historian Sir Nikolaus Pevsner, the 46 volumes of the original Buildings of England series were published between 1951 and 1974. The series was then extended to Scotland, Wales and Ireland in the late 1970s. The Irish guides are incomplete as of autumn 2016. Most of the English volumes have had second editions, chiefly by other authors.\n\nThe final Scottish volume, \"Lanarkshire and Renfrewshire\", was published in autumn 2016. This completed the series' coverage of Great Britain in the 65th anniversary year of its inception.\n\nAfter moving to Great Britain from his native Germany in the 1930s, Nikolaus Pevsner found that the study of architectural history had little status in academic circles, and that the amount of information available, especially to travellers wanting to inform themselves about the architecture of a particular district, was limited. He conceived a project to write a series of comprehensive county guides to rectify this, and gained the backing of Allen Lane, founder of Penguin Books, for whom he had written his \"Outline of European Architecture\".\n\nWork on the series began in 1945. Lane employed two part-time assistants, both German refugee art historians, who prepared notes for Pevsner from published sources. Pevsner spent the academic holidays touring the country to make personal observations and to carry out local research, before writing up the finished volumes. The first volume was published in 1951. \n\nPevsner wrote 32 of the books himself and ten with collaborators, with a further four of the original series written by others: the two Gloucestershire volumes by David Verey, and the two volumes on Kent by John Newman. Newman is the only author in the series to have written a volume and revised it three times.\n\nSince Pevsner's death, work has continued on the series, with several volumes now in their third revision, and three in their fourth editions.\n\nThe books are compact and intended to meet the needs of both specialists and the general reader. Each contains an extensive introduction to the architectural history and styles of the area, followed by a town-by-town — and in the case of larger settlements, street-by-street — account of individual buildings. These are often grouped under the heading \"Perambulation\", as Pevsner intended the books to be used as the reader was walking about the area. The guides offer both detailed coverage of the most notable buildings and notes on lesser-known and vernacular buildings; all building types are covered but there is a particular emphasis on churches and public buildings. Each volume has a central section with several dozen pages of photographs, originally in black and white, though colour illustrations have featured in revised volumes published by Yale University Press since 2003.\n\nThe boundaries of each volume do not follow a uniform pattern and have evolved with revisions and expansions. The original intention was to maintain whatever boundaries were current at time of writing; in the first years of the survey these were the traditional counties of England. However boundary changes to the London area in 1965 and the rest of England in 1974 meant that this was no longer practicable. As such there are now many variants: \"Cumbria\", for example, covers the modern non-metropolitan county – excepting the district of Sedbergh which although in modern Cumbria is included in the volume covering the West Riding of Yorkshire. Conversely, the Furness area – geographically in Cumbria but traditionally in Lancashire – is included, having been omitted from the predecessor volume, \"Cumberland and Westmorland\". \n\nThe six volumes currently covering London collectively represent the 32 London boroughs plus the City, which constitute the modern Greater London region, rather than earlier divisions. The entire volume on Middlesex was an early casualty of this rearrangement, as are parts of the revised volumes covering Surrey, Essex and Kent. The forthcoming \"Birmingham and the Black Country\" volume covers the area bounded by the modern West Midlands metropolitan county, but minus the Metropolitan Borough of Coventry and the rural part of Metropolitan Borough of Solihull. These appear in the revised \"Warwickshire\" volume, despite no longer being in that county. Hence \"Warwickshire\" now follows the boundary of neither the traditional nor the modern county.\n\n\"The Buildings of Scotland\" similarly features hybrid divisions, with volumes such as \"Fife\" and \"Lanarkshire and Renfrewshire\" reflecting their traditional county boundaries whilst \"Highland and Islands\" corresponds to the modern counterparts. \"The Buildings of Ireland\" has so far broadly corresponded to the traditional provinces of Ireland and is blind to 'the Border' between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. \"The Buildings of Wales\" largely follows the post-1974 divisions.\n\nThe list below is of the volumes that are currently in print – dates in brackets indicate forthcoming editions. \n\nSince 1962, the guides have undergone a gradual programme of updating to reflect architectural-history scholarship and to include significant new buildings. Pevsner left virtually all the revisions to others, acting as supervisor only. He ultimately revised only two of his original editions alone: \"London 1: The Cities of London and Westminster\" (1962) and \"Cambridgeshire\" (1970). Both were later revised again by others. To date, the oldest wholly unrevised volume is \"Yorkshire: The North Riding\" (1966). Additionally, readers looking for information on West Sussex will have to consult Ian Nairn's 1965 text, whilst those wishing to read about the architecture of the Black Country must refer to the 1966 text of \"Warwickshire\" pending a new volume covering that area. \"Staffordshire\" (1974) is the only other volume currently issued in its unrevised first edition.\n\nUntil 1953, all volumes were published in paperback only, after which both hardback and paperback versions were issued. The revision of \"London: 1\" in 1962 was the first volume to be issued in hardback alone, and no further paperbacks were issued after 1964. Until 1970 volumes bore a sequential reference number, with \"Cornwall\" being 1. The last volume to be so numbered was \"Gloucestershire 2: The Vale and the Forest of Dean\" (41). Thereafter ISBNs identify each volume. Beginning in 1983, a larger format was introduced, and all subsequent new editions have been issued in this format. Volumes revised pre-1983 have been reprinted in the original, smaller format (marked with an asterisk in the table below). All editions are now published by Yale University Press.\n\nWhere revisions have been spread over more than one volume, the preceding edition remains in print until the whole area has been revised. Editions which have been partly superseded in this way are marked ‡.\n\nThe first of the paperback City Guides, covering Manchester, appeared in 2001. It featured a new format with integrated colour illustrations. In most cases the City Guides have preceded a revision of the county volume in which they are located, although they do go into greater detail than the county volumes and have more illustrations. Thus the Birmingham guide completely supersedes the central Birmingham section of the \"Warwickshire\" volume, which is now almost fifty years old. Two of the guides, covering \"Newcastle and Gateshead\" and \"Hull\", are more recent than the hardback editions for the surrounding counties, and therefore update as well as expand the coverage of those cities. This series appears to be on a hiatus, with no new volumes published since 2010 and none confirmed as in planning.\n\n\nTwo supplementary works – thus far the only of their type – were published in 1998, one covering London's City Churches and the other the Docklands area (see \"London Docklands\" in Superseded Volumes below). Both were issued in the format of the main series rather than the City Guides. However, unlike the Docklands edition which represented preliminary work for an expanded main volume, the City Churches volume augmented the text in \"London 1: The City\", published the previous year. The continued development of the Docklands area meant that the volume was superseded when \"London 5: East\" was published seven years later, but the City Churches volume remains current and was reissued by Yale in 2002.\n\n\nThe series continued under Pevsner's founding editorship into Scotland. The format is largely similar; however, only \"Lothian\" was published in the original small volume style. One noticeable difference in some of the Scottish series is a greater subdivision of the main gazetteer (\"e.g.\" in \"Argyll and Bute\" mainland Argyll has separate gazetteer from its islands, and Bute similarly is treated on its own). Unlike \"The Buildings of England\", none of the Scottish volumes adopts a hierarchy of ecclesiastical buildings, instead grouping them together. As with the English revisions, several of the volumes are the work of many contributors. The series was completed with \"Lanarkshire and Renfrewshire\", published in November 2016.\n\nThe volumes on Glasgow and Edinburgh are, with Dublin (see below) the only Pevsner volumes outside London to focus exclusively on a city. These volumes should not be confused with the City Guide format (see above).\n\n\nThe series has also been extended to Wales, and was completed with the issue of \"Gwynedd\" in 2009 (although this initial survey had taken seven years longer than Pevsner's first complete survey of England). Only the first volume, \"Powys\" (edited by Richard Haslam, and published in 1979) appeared in the original small format style; and this volume has now been superseded by a revised large-format edition, published in 2013. This is the first (and to date only) guide outside \"The Buildings of England\" series to be revised.\n\n\nThe Irish series is incomplete, with only four volumes being published between 1979 and the present day. Research for several of the intended volumes has not yet begun.\n\n\nA number of bridges connect areas covered by different volumes. However there is no single approach for which volume should include the structure in its main gazetteer. In some cases, one volume refers the reader to the other, and in other cases only a few lines appear in one volume and a fuller entry appears in the other. In a very few cases (listed below) a full entry appears in both volumes.\nThe revision of the series has rendered some original volumes obsolete, usually as the area of coverage has changed. For example, the county of Cumbria was created after the publication of \"Cumberland and Westmorland\" and \"North Lancashire\", leading to the merger of material from both volumes in a single volume \"Cumbria\", a revision with a new geographical focus.\nTo date the following volumes have been entirely superseded:\n\n\nIn addition, two volumes, \"North Devon\" and \"South Devon\" (1952) were superseded by a single volume covering the entire county. Parts of the original \"Hampshire & the Isle of Wight\" and \"Yorkshire: the West Riding\" volumes have been superseded by revised volumes.\n\nIn some published volumes and in advance publicity, certain titles were announced which were ultimately never published. A number of factors accounted for this, including the readiness of parts of the text covering certain areas and the anticipated size of the volumes. Unpublished titles included:\n\n\nIn 1995 Penguin, in conjunction with English Heritage, released a publication based on the guides entitled \"Looking at Buildings\". Focusing on the East Riding of Yorkshire volume, Pevsner's text was adapted as an introduction, with a greater number of illustrations than the main guides. No further print publications were issued, however the title survives as an introductory website to architectural terms and selected buildings which feature the Pevsner guides.\n\nIn 1995 a CD-ROM entitled \"A Compendium of Pevsner's Buildings of England\" was issued by Oxford University Press, designed as a searchable database of the volumes published for England only. A second edition was released in 2005. Bibliographies of the guides themselves were published in 1983, 1998 and 2012 by the Penguin Collectors Society.\n\nIn 2016 Yale University Press published three volumes, each serving as an introduction to some of the buildings and the architectural terms mentioned in the text of the guides. Published as \"Pevsner Architectural Guides: Introductions\" these are: an architectural glossary (also available as an app), a volume focusing on church buildings and another on dwelling houses (including vernacular architecture).\n\nIn 1986, Penguin published an anthology from Pevsner's volumes edited by Bridget Cherry and John Newman, \"The Best Buildings of England\", . It has an introduction by Newman assessing Pevsner's aims and methods. In 2001, the Penguin Collectors Society published \"The Buildings of England: a Celebration\", edited by Simon Bradley and Bridget Cherry, fifty years after BE1 was published: it includes twelve essays and a selection of text from the series.\n\nIn 1997 the BBC broadcast a series of documentaries entitled \"Travels with Pevsner\", in which six writers and broadcasters travelled through a county which had particular significance to them. They revisited buildings mentioned by Pevsner, critically examining his views on them. A further series was broadcast in 1998. John Grundy, who presented the programme on Northumberland, was one of the revisers of that county volume. Both series were accompanied by booklets published by the BBC, describing the buildings featured in the programmes and suggesting others to explore. The counties visited and the travellers were:\n\nIn both series extracts from Pevsner's text were read by Benjamin Whitrow. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "7653264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7653264", "title": "Philosophical Explorations", "text": "Philosophical Explorations\n\nPhilosophical Explorations is a peer reviewed philosophy journal published triannually, specializing in the philosophy of mind and action.\n\nThe editors of this journal intend to \"publish outstanding articles in the philosophy of mind and action, with an emphasis on issues concerning the interrelations between cognition and agency.\" They are particularly interested in publishing articles on \"philosophy of mind and action and related disciplines such as moral psychology, ethics, philosophical anthropology, social philosophy, political philosophy and philosophy of the social sciences...[and] interdisciplinary [work], establishing bridges between philosophy and, for example, evolutionary biology, neuroscience, psychology, and political science. In 2010, the journal initiated the Philosophical Explorations Essay Prize.\n\nSince 2007, the Editor in Chief is Anthonie Meijers of Eindhoven University of Technology. \n\nSubmissions to Philosophical Explorations are screened by the (associate) editors and undergo double blind peer review by at least two referees before being accepted for publication.\n\n"}
{"id": "43518013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43518013", "title": "Polish Centre of Mediterranean Archaeology", "text": "Polish Centre of Mediterranean Archaeology\n\nThe Polish Centre of Mediterranean Archaeology (PCMA; ) operates as an independent research institute of the University of Warsaw under the present name since 1990. It is dedicated to organizing, implementing and coordinating archaeological research, both excavations and study projects, as well as conservation, reconstruction and restoration projects, in northeastern Africa, the Near East and Cyprus. Projects include sites covering a broad chronological spectrum from the dawn of civilization (prehistoric times) through all the historic periods of the ancient Mediterranean civilizations to Late Antiquity and early Islam. Tasks beside fieldwork include comprehensive documentation of finds, archives management and publication of the results in keeping with international research standards. The PCMA manages the Research Centre in Cairo.\n\nThe PCMA draws on the pioneering archaeological work of Polish archaeologist and egyptologist Prof. Kazimierz Michałowski, who established in 1959 the Research Station of Mediterranean Archaeology in Cairo, the first Polish institution dedicated to archaeological research in the Nile Valley.\n\nThe PCMA currently runs 28 archaeological projects and teams (data for 2012). Detailed information on the scope of the projects are presented on the Center’s home page, including an online scientific Newsletter.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe PCMA publishes the results of its excavation and restoration projects in two journals and a series of monographs.\n\n\n\nThe PCMA UW is a joint organizer of the annual “Poles on the Nile” conference, presenting the results of excavations carried out by Polish teams working in Egypt and Sudan. In 2006 the Polish Centre coorganized the 11th International Conference of Nubian Studies and in 2012 the 8th International Congress of the Archaeology of the Ancient Near East (ICAANE), the most important and well attended archaeological conferences in their respective fields.\n\n"}
{"id": "17141740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17141740", "title": "Radio art", "text": "Radio art\n\nRadio art, refers to the use of radio for art.\n\nThe artist who works in radio art is not necessarily a trained DJ, programmer, producer, or engineer, but one who uses sound to make art. The radio medium can be used in ways which are different from what it was intended for. In that sense, the way the message is transmitted and received by an audience is as important as the message itself. \"As an aural art form it reaffirms that it's not just what we say, but the way we say it.\" In Victoria Fenner's words, \"Radio art is art which is specifically composed for the medium of radio and is uniquely suited to be transmitted via the airwaves.\" \n\nArtists use (i.e. radio transmission, airwaves...) to communicate artistic compositions for interpretation – exposing their audience to alternate means to experiencing their art through sound verses visualization. Radio Art contributes to new media art - a digitally driven art movement growing in response to the informative technological revolution we live in. “From the artist's point of view radio is an environment to be entered into and acted upon, a site for various cultural voices to meet, converse, and merge in. These artists cross disciplines, raid all genres and recontextualize them into hybrids.” \n\nRadio art projects can be collaborative including various professional sources, unifying an audio broadcast with science, experimentation, geography, entertainment, etc.\" Some have approached radio as an architectural space to be constructed sonically and linguistically; or as the site of an event, an arena, or stage. Some used it as a gathering place, or a conduit, a means to create community. Other artists have employed the media landscape itself as the narrative, while others looked into the body as the site and the source; the voicebox, the larynx become medium and metaphor.\" \n\nradio documentary, radio drama, soundscape, sound art, electroacoustic music, sound poetry, performance, open source, translation, interviews, audio galleries, soundscape, sound art, electroacoustic music, sound poetry intended for the radio, spoken word, concerts, experimental narratives, sonic geographies, pseudo documentaries, radio cinema, conceptual and multimedia performances intended for the radio.\n\nAn art radio is a radio station that would dedicate every second of its transmission time to radio art. Although this kind of project can seem utopian in the traditional state of radio, there are few lasting experiences in the underground or community side such as London's ResonanceFM which intend to make radio with art and promote the \"art of listening\".\n\nAlso, radio had renewed itself through the Internet. The audio streaming technique had replaced the analogue transmitting system and artists can experiment on radio outside the legal constraints of an FM license for example. \nAmong the webradios which are dedicated to radio art, some broadcast pieces like traditional radios. Some others directly experiment with the medium in the more concrete sense. Radio Astronomy broadcast sounds taken from outer space in real time. Le Poulpe is a networking experimental radio that mix several \"spaces\" processed and streamed through the Internet.\n\n"}
{"id": "31614430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31614430", "title": "Raking light", "text": "Raking light\n\nRaking light, the illumination of objects from a light source at an oblique angle or almost parallel to the surface, provides information on the surface topography and relief of the artefact thus lit. It is widely used in the examination of works of art.\n\nUsing raking light, the effects of impasto and the surface texture of a painting are accentuated by the increased illumination of surfaces facing the light source and the exaggeration of shadows on surfaces facing away from the light source. In some instances raking light may help reveal pentimenti (changes in an artist's intention). In the case of wall paintings, raking light helps show preparatory techniques such as incisions in the plaster support.\n\nConservators examine objects under raking light during visual inspection and for condition recording. In the examination of easel paintings, raking light may help document craquelure, paint cupping, uneven tension in a canvas, or warp in a panel. In the examination of wall paintings, raking light can help document surface deterioration phenomena such as the efflorescence of salts and micro-delamination, and may be used for monitoring the effects of conservation interventions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36255800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36255800", "title": "Selection (linguistics)", "text": "Selection (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, selection denotes the ability of predicates to determine the semantic content of their arguments. Predicates select their arguments, which means they limit the semantic content of their arguments. One sometimes draws a distinction between types of selection; one acknowledges both \"s(emantic)-selection\" and \"c(ategory)-selection\". Selection in general stands in contrast to subcategorization: predicates both select and subcategorize for their complement arguments, whereas they only select their subject arguments. Selection is a semantic concept, whereas subcategorization is a syntactic one. Selection is closely related to valency, a term used in other grammars than the Chomskian generative grammar, for a similar phenomenon.\n\nThe following pairs of sentences will illustrate the concept of selection:\n\nThe # indicates semantic deviance. The predicate \"is wilting\" selects a subject argument that is a plant or is plant-like. A building really cannot be understood as wilting. Similarly, the predicate \"drank\" selects an object argument that is a liquid or is liquid-like. A car can hardly be interpreted as a liquid. The b-sentences are possible only given an unusual context that establishes appropriate metaphorical meaning. The deviance of the b-sentences is addressed in terms of selection. The selectional restrictions of the predicates \"is wilting\" and \"drank\" are violated.\n\nOne sometimes encounters the terms \"s(emantic)-selection\" and \"c(ategory)-selection\". The concept of c-selection overlaps to an extent with subcategorization. Predicates c-select the syntactic category of their complement arguments - e.g. noun (phrase), verb (phrase), adjective (phrase), etc. - i.e. they determine the syntactic category of their complements. In contrast, predicates s-select the semantic content of their arguments. Thus s-selection is a semantic concept, whereas c-selection is a syntactic one. When the term \"selection\" or \"selectional restrictions\" appears alone without the \"c-\" or \"s-\", s-selection is usually understood.\n\nThe b-sentences above do not contain violations of the c-selectional restrictions of the predicates \"is wilting\" and \"drank\"; they are, rather, well-formed from a syntactic point of view (hence #, not *), for the arguments \"the building\" and \"a car\" satisfy the c-selectional restrictions of their respective predicates, these restrictions requiring their arguments to be nouns or noun phrases. Just the s-selectional restrictions of the predicates \"is wilting\" and \"drank\" are violated in the b-sentences.\n\nThe concepts of c-selection and subcategorization overlap in meaning and use to a significant degree. If there is a difference between these concepts, it resides with the status of the subject argument. Traditionally, predicates are interpreted as NOT subcategorizing for their subject argument because the subject argument appears outside of the minimal VP containing the predicate. Predicates do, however, c-select their subject arguments, e.g.\n\nThe predicate \"eats\" c-selects both its subject argument \"Fred\" and its object argument \"beans\", but as far as subcategorization is concerned, \"eats\" subcategorizes for its object argument \"beans\" only. This difference between c-selection and subcategorization depends crucially on the understanding of subcategorization. An approach to subcategorization that sees predicates as subcategorizing for their subject arguments as well as for their object arguments will draw no distinction between c-selection and subcategorization; the two concepts are synonymous for such approaches.\n\nSelection can be closely associated with thematic relations (e.g. agent, patient, theme, goal, etc.). By limiting the semantic content of their arguments, predicates are determining the thematic relations/roles that their arguments bear.\n\nSeveral linguistic theories make explicit use of selection. These include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1960350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960350", "title": "Seuthopolis", "text": "Seuthopolis\n\nSeuthopolis (Ancient Greek: Σευθόπολις) was an ancient hellenistic-type city founded by the Thracian king Seuthes III between 325-315 BC and the capital of the Odrysian kingdom. \n\nIts ruins are now located at the bottom of the Koprinka Reservoir near Kazanlak, Stara Zagora Province, in central Bulgaria.\nSeveral kilometres north of the city is the Valley of the Thracian Rulers where many magnificent royal tombs are located.\nSeuthopolis was not a true polis, but rather the seat of Seuthes and his court. His palace had a dual role, functioning also as a sanctuary of the Cabeiri, the gods of Samothrace. Most of the space within the city was occupied not by homes but by official structures, the majority of the people living outside the city. It had Thracian and Greek populace. In 281 BC it was sacked by Celts.\n\nThe dual role of Seuthes' palace (royal court and sanctuary) indicates that Seuthes was a priest–king: the high priest of the Cabeiri among the Odrysian Thracians. According to Seuthopolis’ sign, the sanctuary of Dionysius/Sabazios was situated on the square.\n\nThe cemetery of Seuthopolis included a number of brick tholos tombs, some covered by tumuli, in which the upper-class were interred, sometimes along with their horses. The less affluent were cremated, with modest grave goods laid alongside.\nThe ruins of the city were discovered and excavated in 1948 by Bulgarian archeologists during the construction of the Georgi Dimitrov (later renamed Koprinka) Reservoir. However, it was decided to continue with the construction and flood the dam, leaving Seuthopolis at its bottom.\n\nOne of the most important archaeological finds is the so-called \"Great inscription\" found in 1953 in the palace-citadel. It is written in Greek, which indicates that Thracians were already hellenised in the 3rd century BC. \n\nIn 2005, Bulgarian architect Zheko Tilev proposed a project to uncover, preserve and reconstruct the city of Seuthopolis (the best preserved Thracian city in Bulgaria) by means of a dam wall surrounding the ruins in the middle of the dam, enabling the site's inscription as a UNESCO World Heritage Site and making it a tourist destination of world importance. Tourists would be transported to the site by boats. The round wall, 420 metres in diameter, would enable visitors to see the city from 20 metres above and would also feature \"hanging gardens\", glass lifts, a quay, restaurants, cafés, shops, ateliers, etc. It would be illuminated at night.\n\nThe project was donated by the architect to Kazanlak municipality and funds are being raised to begin construction. According to Tilev, it would cost minimum €50 million.\n\nSevtopolis Peak on Greenwich Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica is named for Seuthopolis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43866742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43866742", "title": "Social practice (art)", "text": "Social practice (art)\n\nSocial practice is an art medium focusing on engagement through human interaction and social discourse. Since people and their relationships form the medium of such works – rather than a particular process of production – social engagement is not only a part of a work’s organization, execution, or continuation, but also an aesthetic in itself: of interaction and development. Socially engaged art aims to create social and/or political change through collaboration with individuals, communities, and institutions in the creation of participatory art. The discipline values the process of a work over any finished product or object. \n\nArtists working in social practice co-create their work with a specific audience or propose critical interventions within existing social systems to inspire debate or catalyze social exchange. The large overlap between social practice and pedagogy demonstrates the need for art education to embrace collaborative practice. Social practice work focuses on the interaction between the audience, social systems, and the artist through aesthetics, ethics, collaboration, methodology, antagonism, media strategies, and social activism. The social interaction component inspires, drives, or, in some instances, completes the project. Although projects may incorporate traditional studio media, they are realized in a variety of visual or social forms (depending on variable contexts and participant demographics) such as performance, social activism, or mobilizing communities towards a common goal. The diversity of approaches pose specific challenges for documenting social practice work, as the aesthetic of human interaction changes rapidly and involves many people simultaneously. Consequently, images frequently fail to do justice to the engagement and interactions that take place during a project.\n\nUntil 2005, the term \"social practice\" was used in a branch of social theory considering human relationships to each other and to the larger society as \"practices\". The term \"art and social practice\" was institutionalized in 2005 with the creation of the Social Practice MFA concentration at the California College of the Arts, followed by other institutions of higher education offering similar degrees. Social practice art as a medium has been referenced in the \"New York Times\", \"Artforum\", \"ArtNews,\" and \"Art Practical.\" As an emerging field, social practice can encompass a variety of terms: public practice, socially engaged art, community art, new-genre public art, participatory art, interventionist art, collaborative art, relational art and dialogical aesthetics.\n\nSocially engaged art differs from its art historical ancestors in that it is not a specific movement or style, but rather a way of defining a new social order. Thousands of existing social practice projects across the world have taken vastly different approaches to their combination of publics, methodologies, aesthetics, and environments, yet these projects all share an aesthetic of human interaction and development. The end products of such works are not commodities, but rather processes for constructive social change. Some foundational characteristics of socially engaged art remain consistently relevant to a diverse range of works. For an artist or producer to create a successful social practice work, they must consider the unique context in which they are working, and identify specific characteristics of the community and environment. They must also balance aesthetic and methodology in their work, align the timeline of a project with its purpose: a quick-impact ephemeral work, or the regularity of a longitudinal work. \n\nSocial practice artists and producers aim to affect their community and environment in a real (rather than symbolic) way that enables social and political change. Each project is tailored to the community and environment in which it will take place. In social practice the identification of the public, or audience, precedes the project's development. It is impossible to create a project founded upon engagement and collaboration without first making assumptions as to who will be involved. \"Who\" the artist or producer wishes to engage and \"where\" they wish to engage are therefore core characteristics of socially engaged art. \n\nEnvironment could be described on two primary levels: the broader community, city, or region; and the immediate space being occupied – a street, museum, studio, or other area. To understand the context in which they are working, artists and producers must develop relationships with individuals, organizations and institutions that intersect many different parts of their community and environment. One theorist makes the comparison between socially engaged art projects to exotic fruit, stating that both “usually travel poorly when “exported” to other locations to be replicated.” The community and environment are therefore not merely external influencers on a specific project – they are inherent characteristics.\n\nFor much of art history, a work's aesthetic has been upheld as the primary measure of its quality. The 20 century broadened the public understanding of art to consider concept and process alongside aesthetic, and by the new millennium the tables had turned to emphasize process over product: one of the defining characteristics of socially engaged art. Process is determined by method; thus social practice producers and artists are often more concerned with the methodology rather than the aesthetic of their work. Many argue that social practice has created a new aesthetic of its own: an aesthetic of human interaction and development that is based not on spectatorship but on participation. This aesthetic captures the diverse methods employed by socially engaged art and encompasses not only traditional methods of painting, photography, architecture, and performance; but also nontraditional forms borrowed from other disciplines, such as festivals, conferences, schools, and protests. \n\nAesthetics are typically hierarchical, highly subjective, and greatly determined by external influencers, such as the imagery of a given culture, or the relationship between appearance and market value. To escape these external influencers, aesthetics can also be defined in terms of “aesthesis,” an autonomous realm of experience and judgment that cannot be reduced to logic, reason or morality but is of great importance to humankind. Aesthetics have the capacity to critique our beliefs and values by restructuring our perception of the world. Their application can achieve one of the core aims of socially engaged art: the definition of a new social order characterized by engagement and participation.\n\nMethodology in socially engaged art refers to the set of practices used throughout the process and production of a project. The method is no longer a means to an end, but an end within itself: the experience of creation and experimentation is a central element of social practice. While aesthetics reframe ideas and beliefs outside of the disciplines in which we have accepted them, methodology takes the frameworks of those disciplines to produce new aesthetics. Socially engaged art has embraced conferences, urban regeneration projects, pedagogical projects, and protests, which are all frameworks borrowed from other disciplines.\n\nWhile aesthetics and methodology can have conflicting interests, there are important reasons why artists and producers should seek to integrate the two. Methodology will engage the public, but aesthetics will play a large role in determining how a project is interpreted.\nWhile aesthetics and methodology can have conflicting interests, there are important reasons why artists and producers should seek to integrate the two. Ultimately, the two can work together to enhance each other: the aesthetic value of a project can increase its social function, while the method can heighten the aesthetic experience through public engagement.\n\nThe method and aesthetic adopted in social practice work is greatly influenced by intended timeline. Length determines the type of social and/or political change the artist aims to achieve, the types of dialogue created, and the ways in which an individual can engage with a work. The length of a project is also extremely situational. Some projects aim to have an immediate impact, while others prefer to build relationships that foster change over an extended period.\n\nEphemeral projects are typically characterized by temporary gatherings and occupation of space. They create situations in which social interactions are momentary and not expected to become long-lasting. The immediate impact of ephemeral works often means they take place around a particular issue or concept. Protests, festivals, conferences, or pop-up performances have all been used as mediums for ephemeral social practice work.\n\nLongitudinal projects are those built upon regular and reoccurring social interactions and dialogue, organized with the intention to be sustained over a longer period. They typically occupy the same space, and are characterized by deeper partnerships and relationships that are gradually built over the course of the work’s existence. As a result, many long-term social practice projects include a pedagogical element in their work. Classes, urban regeneration work, schools, or institutional partnerships are all examples of longitudinal projects.\n\nMuch social practice has taken place in the gap between the public and cultural institutions, which has been identified and acted upon as a new site for artistic intervention. However institutions, such as museums, foundations, non-profit organizations, and universities all play a significant role in supporting and amplifying social practice work. Many institutions constitute an extension of the public sphere, regardless of whether they are public or private in their ownership and operation. Partnerships between socially engaged art and contemporary institutions have thus widened the public sphere, and provided mutual benefits to the institution, the community, those engaged in the project, and the producers.\n\nIn the traditional art world, market value and a work's collectability are deeply intertwined. This has posed a challenge to socially engaged artists seeking museum and gallery support, since many works go against the capitalist market to challenge traditional collecting practices. As a result, many socially engaged artists and producers must look elsewhere for support. The expansion of the art world in the 21 century has seen the emergence of alternative supports, such as non-profit organizations and the ever-growing biennale network. Other partners include art fairs, or commissions and residencies associated with universities, foundations, and urban regeneration. Artists and producers have also formed their own means of support, as artist-run exhibition spaces, journals and blogs demonstrate.\n\nUniversities often partner with producers, artists and theorists of socially engaged art. These relationships offer mutual benefits for both academic institutions and artists. Universities offer artists employment security, the support and validation often required for establishing grant-based and corporate partnerships, and access to a high interdisciplinary environment that not only accepts, but encourages, experimentation. Artists in turn provide knowledge, skills and research to support individuals and broader programs within the university. As producers and scholars, they generate both new theory and new practice for the field of socially engaged art.\n\nExhibitions of social practice art often include multiple artists or art collectives, and rather than exhibiting art objects, the artist’s participatory role in their work as well as their collaboration with the public becomes the exhibition. Several conferences are held nationally and internationally to bring together artists and academics involved in the field. They have featured installation, performance art, film, dance, art talks, forums, and gallery exhibitions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5936523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5936523", "title": "TAN Books", "text": "TAN Books\n\nTAN Books is a traditional Catholic American book distributor and publisher based in Charlotte, North Carolina. \n\nTAN Books was founded in 1967, as \"TAN Books and Publishers,\" in Rockford, Illinois by Thomas A. Nelson (not to be confused with the founder of the Bible-publishing firm Thomas Nelson) to keep in print books teaching the traditional Catholic faith in the wake of the upheaval in the Church that followed the Second Vatican Council. The company's name was formed from the initials of its founder. Over the next 40 years, TAN published hundreds of new and classic titles on theology, Scripture, Church history, traditional devotions (including St. Louis de Montfort's \"Secret of the Rosary\", printing more than 4 million copies), and the lives of the saints, many of which were reprints of titles published by such notable American Catholic publishers as Benziger Brothers and B. Herder Book Company. \n\nIn 1971, TAN republished the Douay–Rheims Bible, which had fallen out of print by the late 1960s, photographically reproducing it from the 1899 John Murphy & Co. edition. In the 1990s, with the advent of computer-based word processing, TAN began re-typesetting many of the titles in its catalog, rather than relying solely upon photographic reproductions of out-of-print works. In 2004, actor and director Mel Gibson's Icon Productions granted TAN the license to publish the Catholic edition of \"The Passion: Photography from the Movie\" The Passion of the Christ, a collection of photographs of scenes from the film accompanied with excerpts from the film's screenplay and quotations from the Douay–Rheims.\n\nFinancial problems led TAN to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in 2005. The company was subsequently acquired by Saint Benedict Press in 2008. Following its acquisition, \"TAN Books and Publishers\" was renamed \"TAN Books,\" with the \"TAN\" acronym now standing for \"Tuum Adoramus Nomen\" (Latin for \"Let Us Adore Thy Name\"). The company has aimed to improve the quality of its products by commissioning more aesthetically-pleasing covers, employing more durable book construction, and continuing to re-typeset numerous titles in its catalog.\n\nOn October 31, 2018, TAN published its first foray into current affairs nonfiction, \"The Smoke of Satan: How Corrupt and Cowardly Bishops Betrayed Christ, His Church, and the Faithful . . . and What Can Be Done About It\" by Catholic journalist Philip F. Lawler, in response to the 2018 resurgence of sexual abuse cases in the Church. TAN Books/Saint Benedict Press president and CEO Robert Gallagher, in his preface to the book, described the work as \"the most difficult book we at TAN have published\", as well as \"one of the most important\".\n\n\nSince TAN's acquisition by Saint Benedict Press and the end of Nelson's involvement with the company, some traditionalist Catholics have expressed displeasure with TAN due to their perception that the company has abandoned its prior firmly-traditionalist editorial policy in favor of one intended to cater to conservative Catholics who, while doctrinally orthodox, accept the changes in Catholic practice that followed the Second Vatican Council. They cite, among others, the removal from TAN's catalog of works questioning the validity and/or rubrical integrity of the Mass of Paul VI (\"The Great Sacrilege\" by Father James Wathen; \"Liturgical Time Bombs in Vatican II\" by Michael Davies; \"The Ottaviani Intervention\", translated with commentary by Father Anthony Cekada), works questioning the orthodoxy of the Council itself (\"In the Murky Waters of Vatican II\" by Atila Sinke Guimarães), criticism of modern Bible translations (\"Which Bible Should You Read?\" by Thomas A. Nelson), as well as works expressing Church teachings that, they claim, conflict with the post-conciliar emphases on ecumenism and religious liberty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33340526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33340526", "title": "Trans-Love Energies (organization)", "text": "Trans-Love Energies (organization)\n\nTrans-Love Energies is a medical marijuana compassion center in Detroit, Michigan.\n\nThe organization began in Detroit during the early 1960s as a communal living environment, but later relocated to Ann Arbor, Michigan. Its founder was poet and political activist, John Sinclair. The commune consisted of two houses located side-by-side. Each house was home to a musical band, and to free-thinkers of the time, including members of the White Panther movement, the \"Ann Arbor Argus\" newspaper, and the MC5. The address of their 1486 Gratiot Ave. office is often considered the birthplace of Detroit techno as it housed Kevin Saunderson's KMS Recording in 1982.\n\nThe organization has narrowed its scope from the social activism of the 1960s to assisting persons who wish to use marijuana to cope with medical ailments.\n"}
{"id": "20153398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20153398", "title": "Whitefish Point Underwater Preserve", "text": "Whitefish Point Underwater Preserve\n\nThe Whitefish Point Underwater Preserve was established in 1987 to protect and conserve shipwrecks and historical resources on of Lake Superior bottomlands in Whitefish Bay and around Whitefish Point, Michigan. The formation of the Michigan Underwater Preserves helped stop controversy over artifact removal from shipwrecks of this area. The preserve is now known for deep, well preserved shipwrecks in clear water accessible to scuba divers with technical skill and experience. The preserve is one of the last places in the Great Lakes to observe shipwrecks without zebra mussel encrustation.\n\nShipwrecks along the southern Lake Superior coast known as the “Graveyard of the Great Lakes” dramatically increased after the first lock on the St. Marys River opened this coastline to shipping in 1855. Every vessel entering or leaving Lake Superior must pass Whitefish Point. The Whitefish Point Light first established in 1849 is arguably the most important light on Lake Superior. More vessels have been lost in the Whitefish Point area than any other part of Lake Superior. Between the loss of the \"Invincible\" in 1816 and the sinking of the SS \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" in 1975, the Whitefish Point area has claimed at least 240 ships. Vessels are funneled through Whitefish Bay downbound and upbound from the Soo Locks. Poor visibility from forest fire smoke, snow squalls, and Lake Superior’s notorious fogs had deadly consequences with the traffic congestion. Lake Superior’s of open water and storms from the northwest can build immense seas with offshore waves of or more. Such a storm sank the \"SS Edmund Fitzgerald\" from Whitefish Point in 1975.\n\nSport diver Harrington reported that many of the shipwrecks of the Whitefish Point Underwater Preserve were \"stripped of important artifacts in the 1970s and early 1980s. The State of Michigan filed a lawsuit against the Great Lakes Shipwreck Historical Society (GLSHS) for illegal removal of artifacts from Great Lakes bottomlands. The Michigan Department of Natural Resources (DNR) obtained a search warrant in 1992 and raided on the GLSHS’s offices and Great Lakes Shipwreck Museum. The DNR found evidence the Shipwreck Society had:\n\nMany of the artifacts removed from shipwrecks by the GLSHS without permits are displayed at the Great Lakes Shipwreck Museum at Whitefish Point by a settlement agreement with the state of Michigan. The sport diving community raised a furious outcry over the disparity of special treatment for the museum divers who received no criminal prosecution while individual sport divers were prosecuted freely during the late 1980s and 1990s for removal of artifacts from shipwrecks. To this day many sport divers boycott the Great Lakes Shipwreck Museum.\n\nThe Whitefish Point Underwater Preserve was established in 1987 to protect some of the region’s most sensitive underwater natural and cultural resources with the central objective to provide enhanced management of shipwrecks. The Whitefish Point Underwater Preserve is administered through the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality Submerged Lands Program and the Michigan Department of History, Arts and Libraries of the Michigan Historical Center.\n\nScuba divers and history enthusiasts now help ensure the integrity of the preserve which is considered an underwater museum.\n\nMany of the twenty-three known shipwrecks lying in depths from to are moored to protect the wrecks and enhance the safety of divers.\nThe preserve has good visibility and offers deep water diving on a variety of shipwrecks. The preserve is one of the last places in the Great Lakes to observe shipwrecks without zebra mussel encrustation. Dry suits are recommended due to cold temperatures and unprotected coves or bays. Most of the dive sites are deep and divers must be certain of their ability and their equipment before they attempt to dive in this preserve.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56819736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56819736", "title": "Zahra Kamalkhani", "text": "Zahra Kamalkhani\n\nZahra Kamalkhani (born 1954) is an Iranian anthropologist.\n\nZahra Kamalkhani was educated at the University of Tehran, University of Bergen and SOAS. She started teaching the anthropology of gender and Middle Eastern studies at the University of Bergen in 1986, completing her PhD there in 1996. She subsequently conducted post-doctoral research at Edith Cowan University and the University of Western Australia.\n\n"}
