{"id": "20220257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20220257", "title": "Accounting Technicians Ireland", "text": "Accounting Technicians Ireland\n\nAccounting Technicians Ireland (formerly IATI) is a professional body for Accounting Technicians on the island of Ireland. They have over 10,000 members and students in the Republic of Ireland and in Northern Ireland.\n\nThe organisation was established in 1983 by representatives of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland (ICAI) and the Irish Institute of Accounting Technicians (IIAT). Accounting Technicians Ireland was originally called The Institute of Accounting Technicians in Ireland.\n\nThe Accounting Technicians Ireland qualification combines professional exams with practical work experience. The Accounting Technicians Ireland diploma is divided into two parts, each of which is a qualification in its own right:\n\nAs members of the Accounting Technicians Ireland body, individuals are entitled to use the letters MIATI after their name. After eight years members may be eligible to apply for fellow membership. Fellow members use the designation FIATI after their name. Other professional accountancy bodies recognise the qualification and offer exemptions from their examination to Accounting Technicians Ireland graduates.\n\nAccounting Technicians Ireland is a not-for-profit organisation. They are a partner body of Chartered Accountants Ireland and an associate member of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). They have offices in Dublin and Belfast and links with local networks throughout Ireland.\n\nAccounting Technicians Ireland is the trading name for the Institute of Accounting Technicians in Ireland Limited.\n\nAccounting Technicians Ireland is managed and operated by a board of directors and 21 executive staff. The Board is responsible for managing the business of the organisation and for implementing a strategic vision.\n\nThe board of directors is made up of eight directors and a secretary. Four of these board directors are members of Accounting Technicians Ireland that have been elected and the other four board directors are nominated by their partner body, Chartered Accountants Ireland. The Board meets at intervals during the year and also for the AGM which is held in June.\n\nThe board of directors is led by the Officer Group. This group is made up of the President, Vice-President and Immediate Past President. These positions are only held by Board members and the term of office is one year.\n\nThe day-to-day management of Accounting Technicians Ireland is handled by Accounting Technicians Ireland COO Gillian Doherty who is supported by Director of Finance Christine Mulcahy.\n\nWorking under senior management the following departments support students' and members' needs:\n\nTo further help students and members they provide a placement and careers service through Accounting Technicians Recruitment. The service keeps students and members up to date with accountancy vacancies in both practice and industry.\n\nAccounting Technicians Ireland has a Code of Professional Ethics and a set of Disciplinary Procedures, the purpose of which is to ensure confidence in the organisation and its members. The board of directors produced the Code of Professional Ethics for use by members and students, and it was adopted on 26 June 2007.\n\nAccounting Technicians Ireland publish both their Code of Professional Ethics and Disciplinary Procedures on their website.\n\nAccounting Technicians Ireland has four levels of membership including a Student level.\n\n"}
{"id": "4661609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4661609", "title": "Administrative Science Quarterly", "text": "Administrative Science Quarterly\n\nAdministrative Science Quarterly is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering the field of organizational studies. The journal was established in 1956 and is published by SAGE Publications for the Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University. For 2007, it was ranked as the #16 academic journal in business by \"Financial Times\".\n\n\"Administration Science Quarterly\" publishes theoretical and empirical papers based on dissertations as well as the work of more established scholars. The interdisciplinary journal also contains work in organizational theory, and informative book reviews.\n\n\"Administration Science Quarterly\" is abstracted and indexed in, among other databases: SCOPUS, and the Social Sciences Citation Index. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", its 2017 impact factor is 5.878, ranking it 9 out of 209 journals in the category ‘Management’, and 11 out of 140 journals in the category ‘Business’.\n"}
{"id": "32521729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32521729", "title": "Barthold A. Butenschøn Sr.", "text": "Barthold A. Butenschøn Sr.\n\nHans Barthold Andresen Butenschøn (27 December 1877 – 28 November 1971) was a Norwegian businessperson.\n\nHe was born in Kristiania as a son of Nils August Andresen Butenschøn and Hanna Butenschøn, and grandson of Nicolay Andresen. Together with Mabel Anette Plahte (1877–1973, a daughter of Frithjof M. Plahte) he had the son Hans Barthold Andresen Butenschøn Jr. and was through him the father-in-law of Ragnhild Butenschøn and grandfather of Peter Butenschøn. Through his daughter Marie Claudine he was the father-in-law of Joakim Lehmkuhl, through his daughter Mabel Anette he was the father-in-law of Harald Astrup (a son of Sigurd Astrup) and through his daughter Nini Augusta he was the father-in-law of Ernst Torp.\n\nHe took commerce school and agricultural school. He was hired in the family company N. A. Andresen & Co, and became a co-owner in 1910. He eventually became chief executive officer. The bank changed its name to Andresens Bank in 1913 and merged with Bergens Kreditbank in 1920. The merger was dissolved later in the 1920s. He was also a landowner, owning Nedre Skøyen farm and a lot of land in Enebakk. He chaired the board of Nydalens Compagnie from 1926, having not been a board member before that.\n\nHe also chaired the supervisory council of Forsikringsselskapet Viking and Nedre Glommen salgsforening, and was a supervisory council member of Filharmonisk Selskap. He was a member of the gentlemen's club SK Fram since 1890, and was proclaimed a lifetime member in 1964.\n\nHe was buried in Enebakk.\n"}
{"id": "51230956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51230956", "title": "Beacon Pharmaceuticals", "text": "Beacon Pharmaceuticals\n\nBeacon Pharmaceuticals Limited is a Bangladeshi pharmaceutical company that develops generic version of drug and commercializes therapeutics.\n\nBeacon manufactures more than 200 generic drugs and 65 oncology products. In each year, Beacon is introducing more than 15-20 Hi-Tech new products. Beacon is the first company in Bangladesh to start export of cancer drugs. The company is exporting its products in Asia, Africa and Latin America. After meeting the local demand, Beacon is exporting its medicine to many countries of Asia, Africa, Europe & Latin America. Beacon is public limited company listed in Dhaka & Chittagong stock exchange. About 2000 people are working in this company.;\n\nBeacon has introduced a number of global first generic.\n\nThe company's current commercially available products include Velpatasvir/sofosbuvir, Sofosbuvir/Daclatasvir, Osimertinib, Crizotinib, Daclatasvir, Sofosbuvir.\n"}
{"id": "4764031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4764031", "title": "Bernard Glieberman", "text": "Bernard Glieberman\n\nBernard \"Bernie\" Glieberman is an American real estate mogul and the president of Crosswinds Communities. Despite having made his fortune in real estate, Glieberman was perhaps best known for, with his son Lonie, making several unsuccessful and controversial forays into sports team ownership and management in the Canadian Football League.\n\nGlieberman's father died when Glieberman was 17 years old, and after this the young Bernard took over control of his family real estate holdings. By the age of twenty-one he was a partner in a real estate firm, and at thirty-one he was able to buy out his partner's shares. By 1971, he had started the Crosswinds Communities corporation, which he runs and in which he is the sole shareholder to this day.\n\nFrom 1991 to 2006, Glieberman was involved as the financier of several football operations in Canada and the United States. Glieberman put up the money while Lonie usually handled media relations and football operations.\n\nIn 1991, Glieberman and his son arrived in Ottawa to bail out the troubled Ottawa Rough Riders. The once-proud team had not had a winning season since 1979. The franchise was also in dire straits off the field as well as it was over C$1 million in debt. With his son as the franchise's frontman, Bernie bought the team for a dollar, assumed the debt, and provided the capital city's team with what must have seemed like stable ownership. Their first season, 1992, showed a good deal of promise; the Rough Riders finished 9-9, only their second non-losing season in 13 years.\n\nIt did not take long, though, for the Gliebermans to lose most of the goodwill they had built up. Before the 1993, the younger Glieberman fired general manager Dan Rambo, a move that he later called a serious blunder in hindsight. He then signed former National Football League Pro Bowl defensive lineman Dexter Manley, who had been banned from the NFL for life due to cocaine abuse. However, Manley had not played a meaningful down of football in almost a year, and it was soon apparent he was nowhere near his old Pro Bowl form. When Lonie demanded that the coaches not only keep Manley in the starting lineup, but also bring back a couple of players cut in training camp, assistant coaches Jim Daley and Mike Roach quit rather than comply. Meanwhile, Bernie made noises about moving the team to the United States, further driving down enthusiasm.\n\nWhen it became apparent that the CFL would not even consider allowing one of the league's oldest franchises to move south of the border, Glieberman reached a deal with the league in which the Rough Riders franchise was split in half. The Canadian half was sold to Bruce Firestone for $1.85 million and retained the Rough Riders' name, colours and history. The American half became the Shreveport Pirates, part of the ill-fated CFL USA expansion scheme. The Pirates, like the whole expansion, were a failure, going 8-28 over two seasons. Glieberman initially attempted to stay in for the long haul, trying to move the team to Norfolk, Virginia. However, city officials were put out upon discovering that Glieberman had faced a number of lawsuits over his CFL career for not paying the bills, and that an antique automobile he owned had even been impounded due to his non-payment on a scoreboard for Independence Stadium.\n\nAfter the failure of his CFL experience, Glieberman tried again in football. In 1997, Glieberman proposed an All-American Football League with the objective of playing by March 1998. Glieberman planned to play a 20-game season in the spring and summer and make money by having the league sell television advertising rather than the network. The league would have been a single-owner entity, but the teams would have been operated locally. It also would have signed players before the draft in hopes of controlling costs.\n\nIn May of 2005, Glieberman resurfaced in the CFL, purchasing the Ottawa Renegades after a season in which the league had financed the team. Lonie was once again installed as team president. The Renegades had struggled both financially and in the standings almost since their inception, and owner Bill Smith was sinking in red ink. He sold majority interest to Glieberman while remaining as a minority owner. The first move made by the Gliebermans was typically controversial: bringing 71-year-old Forrest Gregg as head of football operations after the latter had been out of professional football for ten years since his failed tenure as head coach of Glieberman's Shreveport Pirates. Lonie's Mardi Gras promotion of trying to lure women to Renegades games by offering them beads (a reward traditionally given in the celebration for the baring of breasts) was also criticized. Before the Renegades' final game of the 2005 season, Lonie announced the firing of popular head coach Joe Paopao and his staff, leaving them to coach the final game knowing that it would be their last. The Renegades missed the playoffs.\n\nClaiming $4 million in losses, Glieberman sought a $2 million loan after Smith pulled out. The league, however, was not willing to agree to this, and put the Renegades up for sale on March 22. Unable to find a buyer, the league suspended the Renegades' operations on April 9.\n\n"}
{"id": "21453723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21453723", "title": "Building at 419 West Baltimore Street", "text": "Building at 419 West Baltimore Street\n\nBuilding at 419 West Baltimore Street, also known as Harry Guss Inc., is a historic retail and wholesale building located at Baltimore, Maryland, United States. It is a three-story gable-roofed Flemish bond brick Federal-style building built about 1840. Around 1875, a four-bay cast-iron storefront was added at street level. It was used in the garment manufacturing and sales industries.\n\nBuilding at 419 West Baltimore Street was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "27387189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27387189", "title": "Capability management in business", "text": "Capability management in business\n\nCapability management is the approach to the management of an organization, typically a business organization or firm, based on the \"theory of the firm\" as a collection of capabilities that may be exercised to earn revenues in the marketplace and compete with other firms in the industry. \"Capability Management\" seeks to manage the stock of capabilities within the firm to ensure its position in the industry and its ongoing profitability and survival.\n\nPrior to the emergence of capability management, the dominant theory explaining the existence and competitive position of firms, based on Ricardian economics, was the resource-based view of the firm (RBVF). The fundamental thesis of this theory is that firms derive their profitability from their control of resources – and are in competition to secure control of resources. Perhaps the best-known exposition of the Resource-based View of the Firm is that of one of its key originators: economist Edith Penrose.\n\n\"Capability management\" may be regarded as both an extension and alternative to the RBVF that asserts that it is not control over physical resources that is the basis for firm profitability but that \"Companies, like individuals, compete on the basis of their ability to create and utilize knowledge;...\". In short, firms compete not on the basis of control of resources but on the basis of superior Know-How. This Know-How is embedded in the capabilities of the firm – its abilities to do things that are considered valuable (in and by the market).\n\nLeonard defines three types of business capability that a firm might possess: Core Capabilities, Enabling Capabilities and Supplemental Capabilities.\n\nCore Capabilities are defined as those \"built up over time\", that \"cannot be easily imitated\" and therefore \"constitute a competitive advantage for a firm\". They are distinct from the other types of capability and sufficiently superior to similar capabilities in competitor organizations to provide a \"sustainable competitive advantage\". It is implied that such core capabilities are the product of sustained, long organizational learning.\n\nSupplemental Capabilities are defined as those that \"add value to core capabilities but that could be imitated\".\n\nEnabling Capabilities are defined as those that \"are necessary but not sufficient in themselves to competitively distinguish a company.\" In other words, enabling capabilities are those which a firm has to do, in support of its normal operations and core capabilities, but which are not themselves core capabilities (because they could be imitated, developed quickly or would not be very different from competitors' capabilities). Enabling capabilities are distinguished from supplemental capabilities in that they are required, but do not necessarily add value to core capabilities.\n\nA business capability is \"what\" a company needs to do to execute its business strategy (e.g., enable ePayments, tailor solutions at point of sale, demonstrate product concepts with customers, combine elastic and non-elastic materials side by side, etc.).\n\nAnother way to think about a capability is that it is an assembly of people, process and technology for a specific purpose.\n\nCapability Management is the active management, over time, of the portfolio of capabilities in a firm – their development and depreciation in conscious response to changes in the business environment.\n\nCapability management is an approach that uses the organization's customer value proposition to establish performance goals for capabilities based on value contribution. It helps drive out inefficiencies in capabilities that contribute low customer impact and focus efficiencies in areas with high financial leverage; while preserving or investing in capabilities for growth.\n\nOxford economist John Kay defines Distinctive Capabilities as those capabilities a firm has which other firms cannot replicate even after they realize what the benefits are that owning the capability confers. These distinctive capabilities are the source or superior performance of successful firms. Kay's Distinctive Capabilities may be identified with Leonard's inimitable and hard-won \"Core Capabilities\". However, Kay goes further in arguing that in order for a capability to be truly distinctive and the basis for competitive advantage it must meet two further criteria: sustainability and appropriability.\n\nSustainability refers to the firm maintaining the distinctiveness and superiority of the capability relative to other firms despite their efforts to imitate or replicate it. One approach to sustainability is for the firm to develop the capability faster than the competitors through learning and innovation.\n\nAppropriability refers to the firm securing the benefits of the capability – or the exercising of its capability – for itself as opposed to those benefits accruing to the firm's customers, its staff – management or employees, or its shareholders, regulators or other stakeholders. Intellectual Property Rights are one means for securing appropriability.\n\nOn the basis of analysis of empirical data regarding the performance of companies Kay argues that there are only a few types of distinctive capability that meet the additional criteria. Three are said to recur in the analysis: Innovation, Architecture and Reputation. These are briefly discussed below.\n\nIn a 1990 edition of the Harvard Business Review, Gary Hamel and C.K.Prahalad published an article entitled \"The Core Competence of the Corporation\" which defined the notion of a \"core competency\". Core Competencies are identified by three criteria: 1) they are difficult for competitors to imitate 2) they make a substantial contribution to a number of the firm's products (or services) they give the firm access to several markets and 3) they make a substantial contribution to the perceived customer-value of the products (or services). The (superior) competitive position of the firm's products (or services) in its markets is thought to be the expression of the firm's competitive advantage. Hamel and Prahald go on to assert that core competencies are the result of \"collective learning across the corporation\".\n\nSince that publication there has been active debate in the academic literature as to whether (the concept of) \"core competencies\" is the same notion as core capabilities. Several authors consider that the concepts are the same, the differences purely terminological, and use the terms interchangeably while others insist there is a substantive distinction. Given the similarities in their definitions it is a reasonable position to think they are the same. However, neither Leonard, nor Hamel and Prahalad (nor indeed Kay) were philosophically precise enough in their definitions and expositions of the concepts for the identity to be definitively established. One reasonable position is that \"core competencies\" are a view of \"core capabilities\" from a customers and products perspective while \"core capabilities\" are a view of \"core competencies\" from the perspective of knowledge and skills and staff and suppliers in firms. This may reflect the philosophical biases of their respective institutions.\n\nOthers, such as Max Boisot, take the view that competence or competency is some measure of the level of performance in a capability or that competence is a much narrower concept than capability. Hence a firm may have a high or low level of competence in a particular, notional, abstract capability. There is some evidence that general managers often fail to appreciate the subtlety of the definition of \"core competencies\" and over-estimate the degree of their firm's competence in common capabilities. Consequently, they over-identify \"things the firm is good at\" as core competencies – which falls foul of the distinctiveness criterion for a core capability (and/or the inimitability criterion of core competencies and core capabilities). Hence some things managers mistakenly identify as \"core competencies\" may be more properly considered as Enabling or Supplemental Capabilities.\n\nWhen applying the concepts of \"core competence\" or \"core capability\" academics and practitioners should be clear and precise as to their intended semantics for these ambiguous terms.\n\nLeonard analyzes the nature of a (business) capability and concludes that core capabilities \"comprise at least four interdependent dimensions\" (pp. 19) as follows:\n\nAround this complex of systems that realize a core capability Leonard situates a loop \"Capability-Creating Activities\" that comprise \"Shared Problem Solving\" and encompass Present and Future and Internal and External Perspectives (see Leonard, 1995, chapter 3). This capability development loop, is considered a system of organizational learning (knowledge-creating and knowledge-diffusing activities) and comprises the following activities:\nThese activities, however, do not form a simple cycle or sequence and may be conducted in any order and several \"in parallel\" around any particular capability. It is these knowledge-creating and knowledge-diffusing (or knowledge-acquiring and knowledge-sharing) activities that make the capability dynamic (change over time) in the Leonard model.\n\nClearly, Leonard takes a System-of-Systems perspective on organizational or business or enterprise capabilities – and this establishes the link to the notion of a Capability in Systems Engineering. Given that the Leonard model of a capability incorporates elements of skills and knowledge, and is adaptive and intelligent in the sense of importing knowledge from the external context, experimenting and problem-solving, while moving from present to future, it may be considered an ICASOS – an Intelligent Complex Adaptive System-of-Systems – model of an enterprise or firm. Note that the knowledge created and diffused in the Leonard model is organizational knowledge, not personal knowledge and is Know-How, not Know-That, that is often Tacit Knowledge.\n\nAccording to Hadaya and Gagnon, in their book \"Business Architecture - The Missing Link is Strategy Formulation, Implementation and Execution\", a business capability is an integrated set of resources designed to work together to achieve a particular result. A capability is always made up of one or more business functions, business processes, organizational units, know-how assets, information assets and technology assets. ″For example, to have the capability to Fabricate Metal Parts, an organization must have the necessary machines (technology assets), the knowledge of how to operate them (know-how assets), the specific sequence of activities needed to fabricate the parts (process), the drawings of the parts to be fabricated (information assets), and the teams of people (organizational units) specializing in the various types of fabrication required to make the parts (business functions)″. According to these authors, some capabilities also include one or more brands or natural resource deposits. Indeed, ″the Coca Cola Company could not sell 1.9 billion servings a day in more than 200 countries were it not for the power of its brands″. In turn, for a farmer to be able to Produce Vegetables, he must have not only the right business functions, business processes, organizational units, know-how assets, information assets and technology assets, but also a piece of land (natural resource deposit) on which to grow his vegetables. A business capability can also be made up of lower-level capabilities. For example, to have the capability to manufacture cars, an organization must have several lower-level capabilities, including the capability to manufacture engines and the capability to fabricate and assemble the bodywork of the cars.\n\nThe consideration of a portfolio of capabilities in an enterprise in the context of the PRESENT and FUTURE contexts, with the Importing of Knowledge from the EXTERNAL context and the Implementing and Integrating of Knowledge in the INTERNAL context, establishes the link to Enterprise Architecture. In Enterprise Architecture this knowledge and planning of present-to-future evolution is diffused through the medium of models shared and used throughout the enterprise.\n\nThe Leonard model of a Capability is a dynamic model at the micro-level; focused on the detailed mechanisms for development and change of individual capabilities. Building on the work of Hamel and Prahalad, and others David Teece and colleagues developed a macro-level theory of Dynamic capabilities and framework for their management. In this theory a (or perhaps \"the\") \"Dynamic Capability\" is defined as \"the firm’s ability to integrate, build, and reconfigure internal and external competences to address rapidly changing environments.\"\n\nBuilding on earlier work from the 1960s, the central thesis of the Dynamic Capabilities theory is that \"... the real key to a company's success or even to its future development lies in its ability to find or create a competence that is truly distinctive\". In this literature the term \"competence\" is used in both the sense of degree of performance in some capability and as a low-level, short-term capability. Competence in the latter sense echoes the concepts from Hamel and Prahalad, but may also be identified with Leonard's Enabling and Supplemental Capabilities as well as the short-term Core Capabilities of a firm. The term \"capabilities\" is also used somewhat interchangeably with \"competencies\".\n\nThe competencies or low-level capabilities are regarded as assets or knowledge-resources of the enterprise, alongside physical assets and other resources that are difficult for competitor firms to acquire. In this sense Teece's Dynamic Capabilities Theory is a move back towards the Resource-Based View of the Firm, but with a broader notion of \"Resources\" that includes intangible knowledge-based and practice-based resources, not just tangible assets. In the Dynamic Capabilities Theory, \"Resources\" are firm-specific assets that are difficult for competitors to acquire or imitate, \"Organizational Routines\" (based on prior work of Nelson and Winter) or \"Organizational Competences\" are the low-level capabilities of the firm and \"Core Competences\" are taken from the Hamel and Prahalad concept. Citing Dorothy Leonard (or Leonard-Barton), Teece et al. define (higher-level) Dynamic Capabilities as the \"ability to integrate, build and reconfigure\" these tangible and intangible assets.\n\"Dynamic Capabilities thus reflect an organizations ability to achieve new and innovative forms of competitive advantage given path dependencies and market positions.\"\n\n\"Path dependencies\" refers to the history of development of organizational knowledge embedded in its capabilities, routines and technological assets – echoing the concept from Leonard, but on a macro-scale and explaining why competitive advantage takes time and persistence to build. The incorporation of \"Routines\" and path-dependent development of firms in the theory establishes the link to evolutionary theories of management and (business) strategy.\n\nThe Dynamic Capabilities Theory also refers to notions of coherence, congruence and complementary assets across the firms portfolio of assets, routines, competencies and capabilities. This has resonances with similar notions of coherence in System-of-Systems Engineering and in Enterprise Architecture.\n\nTeece et al. also discuss Technological Assets, Structural Assets and Reputational Assets – echoing the three recurrent categories of Distinctive Capability identified by John Kay – Innovation, Architecture and Reputation. The discussion of technological assets and technology-based competences establishes the link to Technology Management and Technology Strategy. Teece et al. also discuss organizational structure, market/industry structure, organizational boundaries, notions of co-specialization in assets, cross-firm integration and the trade-offs between hierarchical management control and a nexus of contracts. This presages notions of the \"Virtual Enterprise\" or \"Extended Enterprise\" and establishes the link to Enterprise Architecture.\n\nIt can be seen therefore that Dynamic Capabilities Theory is a highly integrative theory of the firm that links a wide range of fields including Business Strategy, Strategic Management, Knowledge Management, Technology Management, Technology Strategy, Systems Thinking, Enterprise Architecture or Enterprise Engineering and others.\n\nFrom the perspective of Dynamic Capabilities Theory, Capability Management is the approach to management that focuses on the development of the portfolio of capabilities (resources, assets, routines, knowledge etc.) available to the firm, and the meta level capability of reconfiguring them and integrating them for market exploitation and competitive advantage.\n\nCapability management in defence has a history dating back to the early years of the 21st Century.\nThe UK Ministry of Defence adapted the existing DoDAF architecture framework to the procurement practices of what was then the MOD Procurement Executive, later Defence Equipment and Support, – in particular a Capability management approach to Defence procurement called \"Through-Life Capability Management\" (TLCM). The DoDAF was extended with additional 'Views' for capability planning and notions of capability configurations and capability increments. These views were standard ways to represent how the capabilities in some segment of the Defence Enterprise (such as the Army, Navy or Air Force) were expected to or planned to evolve over time, given investments by MOD and the UK Government. This was published in 2004 as the MOD Architecture Framework (MODAF) version 1.0. The current, and probably last, version of MODAF is 1.4. This will be the last version since MOD intends to migrate to the forthcoming new version of the NATO Architecture Framework, which incorporates much from MODAF, including the concepts and views of capability planning. The notion of capability in MODAF, however, is slightly different from the notion of capability in, for example, Dynamic Capabilities Theory.\n\nIn MODAF \"Capability\" refers to a \"military\" capability – an ability to produce military effects – or enabling or supporting capabilities. Nevertheless, the central thesis that politico-military conflicts or business competitions in markets are contests in which the organisation or enterprise with the superior capabilities wins holds. On this basis the same capability-based strategy and planning techniques are thought to be effective in both spheres.\n\nThe aim of \"Through-Life Capability Management\" (TLCM) was to promote in defence procurement a shift of perspective away from a focus on military equipment towards what was really required from UK Defence organizations: the capabilities, or abilities to produce effects in the world that enhance UK national security. The MOD considers that such capabilities are delivered by trans-organisation networks of operational units across the Defence Enterprise – and hence uses the terminology \"Network Enabled Capability\" (NEC). This is (a part of) MOD's interpretation of the concept of Network Centric Warfare which itself was a 1990s interpretation of a System-Of-Systems approach or perspective in the context of Defence.\n\nThe earlier cultural focus on equipment had led to over-specification, incoherent equipment purchases, unnecessary duplication, an over-emphasis on initial purchase costs, insufficient consideration of recurrent support and maintenance costs, project and programme delays and significant cost overruns that the UK Government could no longer tolerate. TLCM promoted a capability lifecycle perspective, that sought a balanced investment profile in time that would minimise whole-life costs, while efficiently producing effective, coherent and maximally cost-effective Defence capabilities over the medium term – and thereby ensuring maximum Value-for-Money for the UK taxpayer from Defence. TLCM was therefore central to the strategic planning of the evolution of the UK Defence Enterprise. While formally superseded, elements of TLCM live on in MOD's whole-systems, non-equipment-centric System-Of-Systems Approach, which was mandated in UK Defence Strategic Direction in 2013.\n\nCapability-based planning had long been entrenched in the Defense realm in the US, UK, Australia, and Canada before it was adopted within Version 9 of The Open Group Architecture Framework (TOGAF). \n\nCapability Management has in recent years become a popular sub-discipline or method of Enterprise Architecture. Enterprise Architecture seeks to build a rigorous model of an enterprise that identifies its component parts and their relationships for the purpose of planning the evolution of the enterprise. A Capability Management perspective – such as Leonard's model or Teece's Dynamic Capabilities Theory – suggests that a firm is best viewed as a collection of capabilities that have a composition from and configuration of the tangible and intangible assets of the firm. In this view the firm and its portfolio of capabilities evolve in response to the (perceived) demands of the business environment. An enterprise may comprise one or more firms, or parts of firms (or other types of organization) and their interrelationships – and so is describable (may be modelled) in the same terms.\n\nIn the IBM Enterprise Architecture Method, the \"Enterprise Capabilities Neighborhood\" – a segment of the overall Enterprise Architecture description or model – \"captures the strategic intent of the enterprise\". It \"provides the bridge from the organization's strategy to the architectural building blocks that enable and realize the strategy.\" According to the IBM EA Method, \"Both the Enterprise Capabilities and Business Architecture are technology independent.\" It is not clear how this view can be rationalised and made coherent with the Leonard model or the Teece theory which places some technology-implemented system at the center of a capability. Collins and De Meo go on to assert that \"To focus the EA (description) on delivering the right plan for the enterprise, it must be based on a detailed understanding of the Enterprise Capabilities the enterprise has decided it needs...\". Collins and De Meo's \"Enterprise Capabilities\" can thus be identified with Leonard's \"Core Capabilities\". The IBM EA Method defines the \"Strategic Capability Network\" which \"depicts the strategic capabilities and associated enablers of a business, their interrelationships and their combined roles and significance in ... the value net of a business.\" The SCN is therefore a modeling technique and network analysis method that expresses both the Leonard model of Core, Enabling and Supplemental capabilities, the Hamel and Prahalad notion of core competencies and, given EA's time dimension of enterprise evolution, the Dynamic Capabilities Theory.\n\nA process is \"how\" the capability is executed. Much of the reengineering revolution or Business process reengineering focused on how to redesign business processes.\n\nAn organization capability refers to the potential of the people in an organization and their cooperation to get things done. The way leaders foster shared mindset, talent, change, accountability, and collaboration across boundaries define the company's culture and leadership edge.\n\nDave Ulrich makes a distinction between capabilities and competencies: individuals have competencies while organizations have capabilities. Both competencies and capabilities have technical and social elements.\n\nAt the individual-technical intersection, employees in the firm bring functional skills and competencies such as programming, cost accounting, electrical engineering, etc. At the individual-social intersection, leaders also have a set of competencies or skills such as setting the strategic agenda and building relationships. Moving to the intersection of organizational and technical, are business capabilities. In short, they are the technical things or what the firm must know how to do to execute strategy. For example, a financial service firm must know how to manage risk and design innovative products.\nFinally, we have organization capabilities such a talent management, collaboration, and accountability. They integrate all the other parts of the firm and bring it together. When leaders have mastered certain competencies, organization capabilities become visible. For example, when a leaders master \"turning vision in to action\" and \"aligning the organization,\" the organization a whole shows more accountability.\n\nCapability management's earlier ancestors include the value chain, also known as value chain analysis, first described and popularized by Michael Porter. Core competencies (also called core capabilities) are what give a company one or more competitive advantages in creating and delivering value to its customers in its chosen field, a cluster of extraordinary abilities or the excellence that a firm acquires from its founders, and which cannot be easily imitated.\n\nLee Perry, Randall Stott and Norm Smallwood added to the capabilities body of work the concepts of strategic options based on customer value proposition and business focus and types of work which characterized work as either:\n\n\nBuilding on earlier themes, the concept of dynamic capabilities was introduced in 2000. The basic assumption of the dynamic capabilities framework is that in fast changing markets, firms need to respond quickly and innovatively.\n\nAround the same time, Richard Lynch, John Diezemann and James Dowling extended the concepts above in \"The Capable Company: Building the capabilities that make strategy work\". Key additions to the body of work were tools to translate strategic shifts to new sets of capabilities required whether these were core competencies or not. Building on the types of work ideas, the authors added performance target setting based on the capability value contribution. When compared to actual performance, the method outlined an approach to identify capability gaps and priorities. They also laid out a framework to continually align capabilities based on strategy shifts and external changes through the project agenda. The first full capability model was built by the authors in 2001 as the framework for the demerger of Intercontinental Hotels Group (then known as Six Continents) from the parent Six Continents PLC (formerly Bass & Co Brewery). The model included thee levels of capabilities, value contribution, performance targets, capability gaps, recommended actions and sourcing decisions.\n\nIn 2004, the UK Ministry of Defence released its enterprise architecture framework, MODAF. This framework extended the existing DoDAF specification by adding views for capability planning. These views were standard ways to represent how the enterprise was expected to perform over time, expressed in terms of capabilities.\n\nOther important contributions include the concept of value maps for detailing the customer proposition and more recently the profit proposition to identify capabilities that will help create Blue Ocean Strategy. Value maps extend the work of real-time strategy and the capable company by depicting a strategy canvas and providing an action framework to capture markets. In the mid-2000s, a team at Microsoft, in concert with Accelare, developed the motion methodology – a capability-based framework. In 2008, Ric Merrifield, Jack Calhoun and Dennis Stevens, in \"The Next Revolution in Productivity\" added the use of SOA and its role in supporting capability delivery at breakthrough cost and speed. Also introduced was the use of heats maps for capability analyses.\n\nA complete picture of the capabilities is the enterprise capability model. It is a blueprint for the business expressed in terms of the capabilities necessary to execute strategy including delivery of services. Capabilities are described in levels of abstraction; usually three levels of details:\n\n\nAt the higher level, are the attributes of ownership, location, and project road maps. The lower level is where the action is and where performance targets are set, performance assessed and gaps noted. It is at this level sourcing decisions are made or projects established to close gaps. The framework includes strategic, core and enabling capabilities.\n\n\nCompanies like Harvard Pilgrim Health Care and Intercontinental Hotels Group have used capabilities to focus on where to take out costs and outsource non strategic capabilities while improving service and adding brands.\n\nMicrosoft is using capability models to enter into conversations with clients to identify capability and process pain points to better align IT solutions to the business.\n\nCapabilities are also being used in new growth platform development. Platforms are a foundation that spawns multiple products and/or services that, by themselves, are eventually the size of a business unit. These innovations result from identifying new domains created at the intersection of enablers or \"unstoppable trends\" and customer dynamics, linked to an essential set of core capabilities called the platform logic: those capabilities that are unique, valuable, and portable.\n\nBuilding of the earlier type of work logic, Accelare added a distinction in assessment of the capabilities necessary to operative the business by examining the financial impact as well as the customer impact.\n\nSome capabilities directly contribute to the customer value proposition and have a high impact on company financials. These \"advantage capabilities\" are shown in the upper right. Value contribution is assured when performance is among the best in peer organizations at acceptable cost. Keep them inside and protect the intellectual property. Moving to the top left quadrant, strategic support capabilities have high contribution in direct support of advantage capabilities. Keep them close. Value contribution is assured when performed above industry parity at competitive cost. Other capabilities shown in the bottom right are essential. They may not be visible to the customer but contribute to company's business focus and have a big impact on the bottom line. Focus on efficiency improvement; especially in high volume work. Value contribution is assured when performed at industry parity performance below competitors' cost. Other capabilities are \"business necessity\". Value contribution is assured when performed at industry parity performance below competitors' costs. They can be candidates for alternate sourcing.\n\nA capability gap assessment can be portrayed in a heat map.\n\n\nCapability value contribution helps stack rank investments, for example advantage capabilities with high heat move to the top of the agenda, followed by business essential capabilities with large inefficiencies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16803971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16803971", "title": "Clean tech law", "text": "Clean tech law\n\nClean Tech Law contemplates a diverse set of legal and policy issues related to the development and commercialization of clean technology. These issues range from conventional natural resources law to cutting-edge intellectual property issues related to synthetic genomics and advanced materials. Clean tech law could also address issues and conflicts surrounding the placement of such technologies (e.g., glare from solar panels).\n\nThe term clean tech, or cleantech, is short for clean technology. The abbreviated use of the term first appeared on October 10, 1990 in the Xinhua General News Service. Now, clean tech, is generally considered to include multiple advanced technologies in four economic sectors: energy, water, materials, and transportation. These technologies break down in the following categories:\n\n\nAs a discrete legal field, clean tech law is in its infancy and so vaguely defined that it focuses as much on more familiar areas like liability and ownership as it does business models and corporate strategies. The transactional side of clean tech law revolved around development and commercializing of new technologies in renewable energy, pollution, and other frontiers in the fight against climate change and protection of natural resources, and the creation of green jobs. In addition, the basic economics are inseparable from substantive social and ethical issues posed by these emerging technologies. The more traditional legal areas of clean technology law include intellectual property, patent law, licensing, litigation, and federal and state legislative, landuse and regulatory issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50592270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50592270", "title": "David Barioni", "text": "David Barioni\n\nDavid Barioni Neto (born November 14, 1958) is CEO (president) of São Paulo Turismo S.A and since August 2018 is also Tourism secretary of the city of São Paulo. \n\nPreviously, Barioni was CEO of Ageo Terminais Aeroportuários, Apex-Brasil (the Brazilian Trade and Investment Promotion Agency ), Facility Group S.A. and TAM Airlines and also VP of Gol Airlines.\n\nBarioni started his career as a pilot in 1976, at the age of 18. During his career as a pilot, Barioni flew aircraft models such as Boeing 737, MD-11, Boeing 777-300ER and was an Airbus A300 co-pilot.\n\nHe was also an instructor and flight security agent accredited by the Center for Investigation and Prevention of Aeronautical Accidents (CENIPA) with a specialization in special cargo and crisis management through International Air Transport Association (IATA). He later graduated with a degree in Business Management through UNIB – Ibirapuera University – SP.\n\nIn 1979, Barioni began his career as a co-pilot at VASP (São Paulo Airlines) becoming the company's youngest co-pilot. He later became Commander in 1987. \nIn 2000, Barioni became vice president of Gol Airlines, a company he helped to build alongside its CEO, Constantino Júnior.\n\nIn 2007, he became president of TAM Brazilian Airlines. In his first year in office, the company's in gross revenue grew by 10%, compared to the previous year.\n\nIn 2009, Barioni left TAM and became counselor and co-host of the TV show called O Aprendiz Universitário (\"The College Apprentice\"), alongside entrepreneurs João Doria Jr. and Cristiana Arcangeli.\nAlso in 2010, David Barioni assumed the presidency of the Facility Group, a specialized recruitment consulting firm with branches across Brazil and abroad.\n\nIn 2015, he was awarded by President Dilma Rousseff with the official degree of the Rio Branco Order, the highest award in Brazilian diplomacy, which honors individuals, businesses, military corporations, national and foreign civil institutions for their exceptional merits and services.\n\nAlso in 2015, he was appointed president of Apex-Brasil, the Brazilian Trade and Investment Promotion Agency, which promotes Brazil's products and services abroad, and attracts foreign investment to Brazil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "909320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=909320", "title": "Dirigisme", "text": "Dirigisme\n\nDirigisme or dirigism () is an economic doctrine in which the state plays a strong directive role, as opposed to a merely regulatory role, over a capitalist market economy. As an economic doctrine, dirigisme is the counterpart to laissez-faire, stressing a positive role for state intervention in curbing productive inefficiencies and market failures. Dirigiste policies often include indicative planning, state-directed investment, and the use of market instruments (taxes and subsidies).\n\nThe term emerged in the post-war era to describe the economic policies of France, which included substantial state-directed investment, the use of indicative economic planning to supplement the market mechanism, and the establishment of state enterprises in strategic domestic sectors. It resulted in an unprecedented economic and demographic growth, leading to the coinage of the term \"Trente Glorieuses\" (\"Thirty Glorious [years]\").\n\nThe term has subsequently been used to classify other economies that pursued similar policies, most notably the East Asian tiger economies, and more recently the economy of the People's Republic of China. A related concept is state capitalism.\n\nMost modern economies can be characterized as \"dirigiste\" to some degree – for instance, the state may exercise directive action by performing or subsidizing research and development of new technologies, through government procurement (especially military) or through state-run research institutes.\n\nBefore the Second World War, France had a relatively fragmented capitalist economic system. The many small companies, often family-owned, were often not dynamic and efficient in comparison to the large industrial groups in Germany or the United States. The Second World War laid waste to France. Railroads and industries were destroyed by aerial bombardment and sabotage; industries were seized by Nazi Germany; in the immediate postwar years loomed the spectre of long years of rationing (such as the one enforced in the United Kingdom). Some sections of the French business and political world lost authority after collaborating with the German occupiers.\n\nPost-war French governments, from whichever political side, generally sought rational, efficient economic development, with the long-term goal of matching the highly developed and technologically advanced economy of the United States. The development of French dirigisme coincided with the development of meritocratic technocracy: the École Nationale d'Administration supplied the state with high-level administrators, while leadership positions in industry were staffed with Corps of Mines state engineers and other personnel trained at the École Polytechnique.\n\nDuring the 1945–1975 period, France experienced unprecedented economic growth (5.1% on average) and a demographic boom, leading to the coinage of the term \"Trente Glorieuses\" (\"Thirty Glorious [years]\").\n\nDirigisme flourished under the centre-right governments of Charles de Gaulle and Georges Pompidou. In those times, the policy was viewed as a middle way between the American policy of little state involvement and the Soviet policy of total state control. In 1981, Socialist president François Mitterrand was elected, promising greater state enterprise in the economy; his government soon nationalised industries and banks. However, in 1983 the initial bad economic results forced the government to renounce dirigisme and start the era of \"rigueur\" (\"rigour\"). Dirigisme has remained out of favour with subsequent governments, though some of its traits remain.\n\nThe main French tool under dirigisme was indicative planning through plans designed by the \"Commissariat général du plan\" (\"Commission for the Plan\"). Indicative planning used various incentives to induce public and private actors to behave in an optimal fashion, with the plan serving as a general guideline for optimal investment. During this period France never ceased to be a capitalist economy directed by the accumulation of capital, profit-maximizing enterprise and market-based allocation of producer goods.\n\nIn contrast to Soviet-type central planning practiced in the former Soviet bloc, where economic planning substituted market allocation and operated the factors of production according to a binding plan, the French state never owned more than a minority of industry and did not seek to replace markets with planning. The idea of dirigisme is to complement and improve the efficiency of the market through indirect planning intended to provide better information to market participants. This concept is held in contrast to a planned economy, which aims to replace market-based allocation of production and investment with a binding plan of production expressed in units of physical quantities.\n\nBecause French industry prior to the Second World War was weak due to fragmentation, the French government encouraged mergers and the formation of \"national champions\": large industry groups backed by the state.\n\nTwo areas where the French government sought greater control were in infrastructure and the transportation system. The French government owned the national railway company SNCF, the national electricity utility EDF, the national natural gas utility GDF, the national airline Air France; phone and postal services were operated as the PTT administration. The government chose to devolve the construction of most autoroutes (freeways) to semi-private companies rather than to administer them itself. Other areas where the French government directly intervened were defense, nuclear and aerospace industries (Aérospatiale).\n\nThis development was marked by \"volontarisme\", the belief that difficulties (e.g. postwar devastation, lack of natural resources) could be overcome through willpower and ingenuity. For instance, following the 1973 energy crisis, the saying \"In France we don't have oil, but we have ideas\" was coined. Volontarisme emphasized modernization, resulting in a variety of ambitious state plans. Examples of this trend include the extensive use of nuclear energy (close to 80% of French electrical consumption), the Minitel, an early online system for the masses, and the TGV, a high-speed rail network.\n\nEconomic dirigisme has been described as an inherent aspect of fascist economies by Hungarian author, Iván T. Berend in his book \"An Economic History of Twentieth-Century Europe\". However, the Fascist systems created by Benito Mussolini (Italy), António Salazar (Portugal), Francisco Franco (Spain) and Adolf Hitler (Germany) are a varied mix of elements from numerous philosophies, including: nationalism, authoritarianism, militarism, corporatism, collectivism, totalitarianism, and anti-communism.\n\nDirigisme has been brought up as a politico-economic scheme at odds with \"laissez-faire\" capitalism in the context of French overseas holdings. Countries such as Lebanon and Syria have been influenced by this motif to varying degrees throughout the post-colonial period.\n\nThe economies of the East Asian tigers are sometimes characterised as being \"dirigiste\" due to the strong role played by the state in development planning and guiding investment.. \nDirigisme is also seen in India. The state has complete control and ownership of railways; majority control and stake in banking, insurance, electricity, and oil and gas industries; and has substantial control over telecommunication, port and shipping industries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1920704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1920704", "title": "Doris Duke", "text": "Doris Duke\n\nDoris Duke (November 22, 1912 – October 28, 1993) was an American heiress, socialite, horticulturalist, art collector, and philanthropist.\n\nThe daughter of a wealthy tobacco tycoon, Duke was able to fund a life of global travel and wide-ranging interests. These extended across journalism, competition surfing, jazz piano, wildlife conservation, Oriental art and Hare Krishna.\n\nMuch of her work centered on her father's estate at Hillsborough Township, New Jersey, where she created many elaborately-themed gardens, furnished with artifacts acquired on her world travels, including one of America's largest indoor botanical displays. She was also active in preserving more than 80 historic buildings in Newport, Rhode Island.\n\nTwice divorced, Duke enjoyed a colorful private life that was seldom out of the gossip columns.\n\nHer philanthropic work in AIDS research, medicine, and child welfare continued into her old age, some of it unknown to the public during her lifetime, and her estimated $1.3 billion fortune was largely left to charity. After much legal challenging of the executors and trustees, Duke's legacy is now administered by the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, dedicated to medical research, prevention of cruelty to children and animals, the performing arts, wildlife and ecology.\n\nDuke was born in New York City, the only child of tobacco and hydroelectric power tycoon James Buchanan Duke and his second wife, Nanaline Holt Inman, widow of Dr. William Patterson Inman. At his death in 1925, the elder Duke's will bequeathed the majority of his estate to his wife and daughter, along with $17 million in two separate clauses of the will, to The Duke Endowment he had created in 1924. The total value of the estate was not disclosed, but was estimated variously at $60 million to $100 million (equivalent to $ million to $ billion in ), the majority culled from J.B. Duke's holds in Lucky Strike cigarettes.\n\nDuke spent her early childhood at Duke Farms, her father's estate in Hillsborough Township, New Jersey. Due to ambiguity in James Duke's will, a lawsuit was filed to prevent auctions and outright sales of real estate he had owned; in effect, Doris Duke successfully sued her mother and other executors to prevent the sales. One of the pieces of real estate in question was a Manhattan mansion at 1 East 78th Street which later became the home of the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University.\n\nShe was presented to society as a debutante in 1930, aged 18, at a ball at Rough Point, the family residence in Newport, Rhode Island. She received large bequests from her father's will when she turned 21, 25, and 30; she was sometimes referred to as the \"world's richest girl.\" Her mother died in 1962, leaving her jewelry and a coat.\n\nWhen Duke came of age, she used her wealth to pursue a variety of interests, including extensive world travel and the arts. During World War II, she worked in a canteen for sailors in Egypt, taking a salary of one dollar a year. She spoke French fluently. In 1945, Duke began a short-lived career as a foreign correspondent for the International News Service, reporting from different cities across the war-ravaged Europe. After the war, she moved to Paris and wrote for the magazine \"Harper's Bazaar\".\n\nWhile living in Hawaii, Duke became the first non-Hawaiian woman to take up competitive surfing under the tutelage of surfing champion and Olympic swimmer Duke Kahanamoku and his brothers. A lover of animals, in particular her dogs and pet camels, in her later years Duke became a wildlife refuge supporter, an environmental conservationist, and a patron of historic preservation.\n\nDuke's interest in horticulture led to a friendship with Pulitzer Prize-winning author and scientific farmer Louis Bromfield, who operated Malabar Farm, his country home in Lucas, Ohio in Richland County. Today, his farm is part of Malabar Farm State Park, made possible by a donation from Duke that helped purchase the property after Bromfield's death. A section of woods there is dedicated to her and bears her name.\n\nAt age 46, Duke started to create Duke Gardens, an exotic public-display garden, to honor her father James Buchanan Duke. She extended new greenhouses from the Horace Trumbauer conservatory at her home in Duke Farms, New Jersey. Each of the eleven interconnected gardens was a full-scale re-creation of a garden theme, country or period, inspired by DuPont's Longwood Gardens. She designed the architectural, artistic and botanical elements of the displays based on observations from her extensive international travels. She also labored on their installation, sometimes working 16-hour days. Display construction began in 1958.\n\nDuke had learned to play the piano at an early age and developed a lifelong appreciation of jazz and befriended jazz musicians. She also liked gospel music and sang in a gospel choir.\n\nIn 1966, Duke was behind the wheel of a rented car when it lurched forward and crushed interior designer Eduardo Tirella as he was opening the gates of the mansion they were restoring in Newport, Rhode Island. While it was ruled a freak accident by the police, Tirella's family sued and won $75,000 when Duke was found negligent.\n\nDuke acquired a number of homes. Her principal residence and official domicile was Duke Farms, her father's 2,700 acre (11 km²) estate in Hillsborough Township, New Jersey. Here she created Duke Gardens, public indoor botanical display that were among the largest in America.\n\nDuke's other residences were private during her lifetime: she spent summer weekends working on her Newport Restoration Foundation projects while staying at Rough Point, the 49-room English manor-style mansion that she inherited in Newport, Rhode Island.\n\nWinters were spent at an estate she built in the 1930s and named \"Shangri La\" in Honolulu, Hawaii; and at \"Falcon Lair\" in Beverly Hills, California, once the home of Rudolph Valentino. She also maintained two apartments in Manhattan: a 9-room penthouse with a veranda at 475 Park Avenue that is currently owned by journalist Cindy Adams; and another apartment near Times Square that she used exclusively as an office for the management of her financial affairs.\n\nShe purchased her own Boeing 737 jet and redecorated the interior to travel between homes and on her trips to collect art and plants. The plane included a bedroom decorated to resemble a bedroom in a real house. Doris Duke had difficulty remaining in one place, and whenever she arrived somewhere, she had the desire to go somewhere else.\n\nDuke was a hands-on homeowner, climbing a ladder to a three-story scaffolding to clean tile murals in the courtyard of Shangri La, and working side by side with her gardeners at Duke Farms.\n\nThree of Duke's residences are currently managed by subsidiaries of the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation and allow limited public access. Duke Farms in New Jersey is managed by the Duke Farms Foundation; a video tour of former Duke Gardens is available. Rough Point was deeded to the Newport Restoration Foundation in 1999 and opened to the public in 2000. Tours are limited to 12 people. Shangri-La is operated by the Doris Duke Foundation for Islamic Art; small personal tours and an online virtual tour are available.\n\nDuke married twice, the first time in 1935 to James H. R. Cromwell, the son of Palm Beach society doyenne Eva Stotesbury. Cromwell, a New Deal advocate like his wife, used her fortune to finance his political career. In 1940 he served several months as U.S. Ambassador to Canada and ran unsuccessfully for the U.S. Senate. The couple had a daughter, Arden, who died one day after her birth. They divorced in 1943.\n\nOn September 1, 1947, while in Paris, Duke became the third wife of Porfirio Rubirosa, a diplomat from the Dominican Republic. She reportedly paid his second wife, actress Danielle Darrieux, $1 million to agree to an uncontested divorce. Because of her great wealth, Duke's marriage to Rubirosa attracted the attention of the U.S. State Department, which cautioned her against using her money to promote political agenda. Further, there was concern that in the event of her death, a foreign government could gain too much leverage. Therefore, Rubirosa had to sign a pre-nuptial agreement; during the marriage, though, she gave Rubirosa several million dollars in gifts, including a stable of polo ponies, sports cars, a converted B-25 bomber, and, in the divorce settlement, a 17th-century house in Paris. One of Doris Duke's best friends was Brazilian socialite and \"jetsetter\" Aimée de Heeren.\n\nShe reportedly had numerous affairs, with, among others, Duke Kahanamoku, Errol Flynn, Alec Cunningham-Reid, General George S. Patton, Joe Castro, and Louis Bromfield.\n\nDuke posted a bail of $5,000,000 for her friend, former Philippine First Lady Imelda Marcos after the latter was arrested for racketeering.\n\nIn 1992, at the age of 79, Duke had a facelift. She began trying to walk while she was still heavily medicated and fell, breaking her hip. In January 1993, she underwent surgery for a knee replacement. She was hospitalized from February 2 to April 15. She underwent a second knee surgery in July of that year.\n\nA day after returning home from this second surgery, she suffered a severe stroke. Doris Duke died at her Falcon's Lair home on October 28, 1993, at the age of 80. The cause was progressive pulmonary edema resulting in cardiac arrest, according to a spokesman.\n\nDuke was cremated 24 hours after her death and her executor, Bernard Lafferty, scattered her ashes into the Pacific Ocean as her last will specified.\n\nWhen Doris' father died, he left a fortune valued at $100 million, with the largest share going to Duke and her mother. Nanaline was a shrewd businesswoman, often compared to Hetty Green, and when she died in 1962, she left her daughter, then estimated to be worth $250 million, a fortune triple what J. B. had left her.\n\nDuke also owned numerous shares in big-name companies, such as General Motors, and had a large financial team of bankers and accountants to manage her holdings (since, despite rumors, Duke had little to no interest in money matters). In addition, Duke had a collection of artwork, which was said to include works by Picasso, Van Gogh, Rembrandt and Monet, as well as her valuable collection of Islamic and Southeast Asia art and furniture. Also in Duke's collection were over 2,000 bottles of rare wine (worth over $5 million) and the extraordinary Duke collection of fine jewels. Her total net worth, including all property, was valued at $5.3 billion.\n\nDuke’s first major philanthropic act was to establish Independent Aid, Inc., in 1934, when she was 21 years old, in order to manage the many requests for financial assistance addressed to her. In 1958, she established the Duke Gardens Foundation to endow the public display gardens she started to create at Duke Farms. Her Foundation intended that Duke Gardens \"reveal the interests and philanthropic aspirations of the Duke family, as well as an appreciation for other cultures and a yearning for global understanding.\". Duke Gardens were the center of a controversy over the decision by the trustees of the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation to close them on May 25, 2008.\n\nIn 1968, Duke created the Newport Restoration Foundation with the goal of preserving more than eighty colonial buildings in the town. Historic properties include Rough Point, Samuel Whitehorne House, Prescott Farm, the Buloid-Perry House, the King's Arms Tavern, the Baptist Meetinghouse, and the Cotton House. Seventy-one buildings are rented to tenants. Only five function as museums. She also funded the construction of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi's ashram in India, visited by the Beatles in 1968. \nDuke's extensive travels led to an interest in a variety of cultures, and during her lifetime she amassed a considerable collection of Islamic and Southeast Asian art. After her death, numerous pieces were donated to The Asian Art Museum of San Francisco and the Walters Art Museum of Baltimore.\n\nDuke did much additional philanthropic work and was a major benefactor of medical research and child welfare programs. In the late 1980s, Duke donated $2 million to Duke University to be used for AIDS research. Her foundation, Independent Aid, became the Doris Duke Foundation, which still exists as a private grant-making entity. After her death, the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation was established in 1996, supporting four national grant making programs and Doris Duke's three estates, Shangri La, Rough Point, and Duke Farms.\n\nDuke was the life beneficiary of two trusts created by her father, James Buchanan Duke, in 1917 and 1924. The income from the trusts was payable to any children after her death. In 1988, at the age of 75, Duke legally adopted a woman named Chandi Heffner, then a 35-year-old Hare Krishna devotee and sister of the third wife of billionaire Nelson Peltz. Duke initially maintained that Heffner was the reincarnation of her only biological child Arden, who died soon after birth in 1940.\n\nThe two women had a falling out, and the final version of Duke's will specified that she did not wish Heffner to benefit from her father's trusts; she also negated the adoption. Despite the negation, after Duke's death, the estate's trustees settled a lawsuit brought by Heffner for $65 million.\n\nIn her final will, Duke left virtually all of her fortune to several existing and new charitable foundations. She appointed her butler, Bernard Lafferty born in Creeslough, County Donegal, Ireland, as executor of her estate. Lafferty appointed the US Trust company as corporate co-executor. Lafferty and Duke's friend Marion Oates Charles were named as her trustees.\n\nHowever a number of lawsuits were filed against the will. At death, Duke's fortune was estimated at upwards of $1.2 billion. The best-known lawsuit was initiated by Harry Demopoulos. In an earlier will, Demopoulos had been named executor and challenged Lafferty's appointment. Demopolous argued that Lafferty and his lawyers had cajoled a sick, sedated old woman into giving him control of her estate.\n\nEven more sensational accusations were made by a nurse, Tammy Payette, who contended that Lafferty and a prominent Beverly Hills physician, Dr. Charles Kivowitz, had conspired to hasten Duke's death with morphine and Demerol. In 1996, the year Lafferty died, the Los Angeles District Attorney's office ruled there was no firm evidence of foul play.\n\nDuke University also filed suit, claiming entitlement to a larger share of the Duke assets than the $10 million provided in the will (although Duke's will also stated that any beneficiary who disputed its provisions should receive nothing).\n\nLitigation involving 40 lawyers at 10 different law firms tied up the Duke estate for nearly three years. New York courts ultimately removed Lafferty for using estate funds for his own support and US Trust for failing \"to do anything to stop him.\" The Surrogate Court of Manhattan overrode Duke's will and appointed new trustees from among those who had challenged it: Harry Demopoulos; J. Carter Brown (later also involved in overturning the will of Albert C. Barnes); Marion Oates Charles, the sole trustee from Duke's last will; James Gill, a lawyer; Nannerl O. Keohane, president of Duke University; and John J. Mack, president of Morgan Stanley. The fees for their lawsuits exceeded $10 million, and were paid by the Duke estate. These trustees now control all assets of the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, which Doris Duke directed should support medical research, anti-vivisectionism, prevention of cruelty to children and animals, performance arts, wildlife, and ecology.\n\nThe DDCF also controls funding for the three separate foundations created to operate Duke's former homes: the Doris Duke Foundation for Islamic Art, Duke Farms and Newport Restoration Foundation. The trustees have progressively reduced funding for these foundations, stating that Doris Duke's own works are \"perpetuating the Duke family history of personal passions and conspicuous consumption.\" Recently, these foundations have sold some assets and have closed Duke Gardens. Christie's, New York, published a heavily illustrated catalog of over 600 pages for its auction of \"The Doris Duke Collection, sold to benefit the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation\" which was held in New York City over three days in 2004.\n\nSeveral biographies of Duke have been published, notably:\n\n\nSeveral films/television shows has been made about her life, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31658523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31658523", "title": "Erel Margalit", "text": "Erel Margalit\n\nErel Margalit (; born 1 January 1961) is an Israeli politician and a high-tech and social entrepreneur. He served as a member of the Knesset on behalf of the Labor Party between 2015 and 2017. Previously, he was the founder and managing partner of the Jerusalem-based venture capital firm Jerusalem Venture Partners (JVP). In 2005, \" Forbes \" international business magazine selected Margalit as the top-ranking non-American venture capitalist on its prestigious \"Midas (The Golden Touch) List.” In 2010, \"The Marker Magazine\" named him the best venture capitalist in Israel. Margalit is a founder of the Avoda Now movement in 2011 which aimed to rehabilitate the Labour Party following the split by Ehud Barak and the creation of HaAtzma'ut Party. In 2013, Margalit was elected to the 19th Knesset as a representative of the Labor party. \nMargalit currently serves as a member of the prestigious Finance Committee and the Science and Technology Committee. He chairs the Parliamentary Task Forces for Economic Development in the North and the Negev, Cyber Protection and Combating Living Costs in Israel, and co-chairs the Parliamentary Task Force for Small and Medium Businesses, Integrating the Ultra-Orthodox in the High-Tech Sector, Employment for the Arab-Israeli Sector, 40+ Employment, and the Task Force for the City of Jerusalem.\n\nErel Margalit was born in kibbutz Na'an, the eldest of three siblings. His father, Itzik Margalit, was an officer in the IDF Armored Corps and one of the founders of moshav Kfar Haim, and his mother, Mickey, was a founding member of moshav Avihayil. On his mother's side, he is descended from Jews who immigrated to what was then Ottoman Palestine from Bulgaria in the 19th century, prior to the beginning of the First Aliyah. He is a descendant of Shmuel Tagir, one of the founders of Tel Aviv. \n\nIn 1969, when Margalit was eight years old, the family was sent on a mission to Detroit, Michigan where his father was head of a local Hebrew school. While in high school in Michigan, Erel became a point-guard on a local basketball team. After returning to Israel in 1971, the family settled in Karmiel before moving to Jerusalem. He attended Rene Cassin High School and continued to play basketball there. Recognition of his talent led to an offer to join the Israeli youth team, but he declined in favor of serving in an IDF combat unit. He served in the Golani Brigade's \"Orev\" unit as an operations officer, reaching the rank of sergeant major. As a reservist in 1982, he fought in the First Lebanon War with the IDF's airborne anti-tank division.\n\nMargalit studied philosophy and English literature at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, where he met his future wife. In 1985 Margalit moved to New York to attend Columbia University where he continued towards a doctorate in philosophy and logic. During his studies he was exposed to Michael Porter's \"The Competitive Advantage of Nations,\" which influenced his doctoral dissertation on the subject, \"The Entrepreneur as a Leader in the Historical Process.\" which he completed in 2007.\n\nIn response to the First Intifada and the anti-Israel activities on American campuses, Margalit organized a dialogue group between Israeli and Arab students. Together with other Israeli doctoral students, among them Yossi Dahan and Yossi Bachar, he established groups on eight leading campuses.\n\nMargalit is married to Debbie and has three daughters: Tair, Eden, and Maya.\n\nReturning to Israel in 1990, Margalit began to work at the Jerusalem Development Authority under Uzi Wexler, promoting business development and technological entrepreneurship in Jerusalem. During this time, he worked closely with Teddy Kollek. He also worked in cooperation with American governors, among them Mario Cuomo of New York, Pete Wilson of California, James Florio of New Jersey and Rodney Wallace of Massachusetts. Margalit helped to attract dozens of technology companies to Jerusalem with the aim of turning the city into a high-tech capital for Israel. In three years, he succeeded in bringing in 70 large technology companies, including Digital and IBM. In June 1994, Margalit left the JDA and embarked on an independent career.\n\nIn 1993, Erel Margalit founded the JVP venture capital fund. He created a new model that integrated an active management approach with a strategy of forming an international market. Under his leadership, JVP has been instrumental in building dozens of high-tech startups into global corporations operating in Israel, the United States, Europe and Asia. Under his leadership, the JVP Fund currently runs investments of approximately 850 million dollars in eight funds, and specializes in investments in media, internet, mobile telephony, advertising and gaming industries. Erel has personally led seventeen successful exits, including the sale of Chromatis Networks, to Lucent Technologies in 2000 for $4.82 billion, the second highest amount ever paid to an Israel company after Mobileye, sold to Intel in 2017 for $15.3 billion, and the IPO of Qlik Technologies, which as of April 2011 was valued at over $2 billion.\n\nBoard Positions:\nAnyclip- Co-founder & Chairman 2018; Initial investment was in early 2007\nCyberArk (NASDAQ: CYBR) - Chairman – Initial investment 2002, $540M IPO in 2014, sold position for $1.7B between 2014-2016\nQlikTech (NASDAQ:QLIK)- Board Member – Initial investment in 2004, $770M IPO in 2010, sold position in 2012 for $2.5B\nChromatis- Board Member – Initial investment 1998, Sold to Lucent in 2000 for $4.9B\nNetro- Investor – Initial Investment 1994, $351M IPO in 1999, sold position for $5.5B\nCogent Communications (NASDAQ: CCOI)- Board Member – Initial investment 2000, $260M IPO in 2007, valued today at $2B\nCyoptics- Chairman – Initial investment 1999, Sold to Avago in 2013, $440M\nPrecise- Board Member – Initial investment 1996, IPO 2000 sold position for $770M\nScorpio- Investor – Initial investment 1995, Sold to US Robotics in 1996\nFundtech- Investor – Initial investment 1995, IPO March 1998\nParadigm Geophysical- board member – Initial investment in 1995, IPO 1998\n\nIn 2006, Erel Margalit formed and developed the new Media Quarter in and around the historical train station compound in Jerusalem. The Media Quarter, JVP Media Labs, a technological incubator, and The Lab, an arts incubator for Jerusalem performing artists, operate side by side. Currently over 300 young employees work in the Media Quarter, including engineers, artists, authors, filmmakers, and cultural figures. The Media Quarter has become one of the most innovative cultural and business scenes in Israel.\n\nIn 2002, Marglit founded the social organization Bakehila (בקהילה \"In the Community\" in Hebrew) as a means of reducing the socio-economic gap affecting disadvantaged children in Jerusalem. Bakehila runs educational programs in lower socioeconomic neighborhoods of Jerusalem with the goal of raising the students' academic achievements, and promoting the children's personal and interpersonal growth. Thousands of students from Jerusalem have attended the program during its first eight years. In 2012, \"Bakehila\" opened an educational enrichment center in the Arab neighborhood of Beit Safafa.\n\nFollowing the events of the Second Intifada and the massive departure of young artists from Jerusalem, Erel Margalit created The Lab \"(Hama'abada)\" to keep and attract young artists in Israel's capital. The Lab provides support and assistance to these artists, providing venues for young Israelis to create, perform, and receive feedback on their work.\n\nDuring the 2005 election campaign, Margalit was one of the first businessmen to support Amir Peretz in the general elections. He joined the Labor Party and expressed his support of Peretz's social agenda. Margalit promoted his vision of economic growth whereby the ultra-Orthodox and Arab populations would be integrated in the labor market in Israel, thus taking them out of poverty and alleviating pressure on the middle classes. In addition, Margalit presented a plan for bringing the communities of Israel's geographic periphery closer to the center of the country, both economically and socially.\n\nSince his initial support of the Labor Party, Margalit grew disillusioned with the direction of the party and its leadership. On January 17, 2011, the Chairman of the Labor Party, Ehud Barak, announced his resignation from the Labor Party and the establishment of a new party – \"Atzmaut\" (Independence Party). Two days after this announcement Margalit helped to found the \"Avoda Now\" movement together with prominent members of Israel's business, technology, and cultural community, calling for a revival of the Labor Party. The movement launched a public campaign calling the people to join the Labor party lines; with the aim of renewing its institutions, restoring its social values, and choosing a new, dynamic leadership.\n\nOn April 27, 2011, saying he could \"no longer watch from the sidelines as the political situation in Israel deteriorates\", Margalit announced his intention to run for the chairmanship of Israel's Labor Party.\n\nOn 5 February 2013 Margalit became a Member of the Israeli Knesset and currently serves as a member of the prestigious Finance Committee and the Science and Technology Committee. He has been called the richest member of the Knesset. Margalit was especially active in the 2013 budget discussions criticizing its lack of economic growth engines (See ), and called to cancel the bi-yearly budget. He also led the Opposition on the discussions of the \"HARIKUZIUT\" bill, aimed to target the over-concentration and centralization in the Israeli economy.\nMargalit chairs the Parliamentary Task Forces for Economic Development in the North and the Negev, Civilian Cyber Protection and Combating Living Costs in Israel, and co-chairs the Parliamentary Task Force for Small and Medium Businesses, Integrating the Ultra-Orthodox in the High-Tech Sector, Employment for the Arab-Israeli Sector, 40+ Employment , and the Task Force for the City of Jerusalem where he often criticizes the Israeli Government's policy of worrying about Jerusalem's borders but ignoring its content and neglecting its poor economic status.\n\nIn the 2013 Labor Party leadership election Margalit announced his support for the candidacy of MK Isaac Herzog for chairman. Margalit was re-elected to the Knesset in the 2015 elections. In 2017 he contested the Labor Party leadership election, but was knocked out in the first round of voting. He subsequently resigned from the Knesset in October 2017 and was replaced by Leah Fadida.\n\n"}
{"id": "49975329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49975329", "title": "Expert as a service", "text": "Expert as a service\n\nExpert-as-a-Service (ExaaS) is an online delivery model of human consulting and/or automated knowledge transfer. Similarly to SaaS (Software as a service) the concept of ExaaS comes from the remote nature of processing data and/or providing service. The user of ExaaS accesses the service through a webpage, VoiP, IM, etc. or any related mobile app. Typical ExaaS providers are consultants, lawyers, physicians, teachers etc. \nBiztech Magazine claims that \"...Everything as a service...Clouding Will Disrupt the World...\" and according to Business2Customers magazine there are \"...3 Reasons Why Experts-as-a-Service is the Future of Consulting...\"\n\nExaaS is the general term for newer consulting or expertise based online services like CaaS (Consulting-as-a-Service) or JaaS (Justice-as-a-Service) \n\nCaaS companies or individuals deliver online consulting services (The Consulting-as-a-Service model (CONaaS) by Luke Marson, sales diagnostics by Miklos Kadar, \nIntroducing Executive As A Service by GconnTec )\n\nAccording to BusinessInsider JaaS companies \"...Find You Money You Didn't Know You Were Owed...\" by providing legal or consumer rights services. And according to Henrik Zillmer \"...There’s a new wave of customer empowerment coming...\" \nHe lists honourable mentions of JaaS services like Paribus, Airhelp, Fixed, BillFixers, 71lbs )\n"}
{"id": "1344392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1344392", "title": "Fact table", "text": "Fact table\n\nIn data warehousing, a fact table consists of the measurements, metrics or facts of a business process. It is located at the center of a star schema or a snowflake schema surrounded by dimension tables. Where multiple fact tables are used, these are arranged as a fact constellation schema. A fact table typically has two types of columns: those that contain facts and those that are a foreign key to dimension tables. The primary key of a fact table is usually a composite key that is made up of all of its foreign keys. Fact tables contain the content of the data warehouse and store different types of measures like additive, non additive, and semi additive measures.\n\nFact tables provide the (usually) additive values that act as independent variables by which dimensional attributes are analyzed. Fact tables are often defined by their \"grain\". The grain of a fact table represents the most atomic level by which the facts may be defined. The grain of a sales fact table might be stated as \"sales volume by day by product by store\". Each record in this fact table is therefore uniquely defined by a day, product and store. Other dimensions might be members of this fact table (such as location/region) but these add nothing to the uniqueness of the fact records. These \"affiliate dimensions\" allow for additional slices of the independent facts but generally provide insights at a higher level of aggregation (a region contains many stores).\n\nIf the business process is sales, then the corresponding fact table will typically contain columns representing both raw facts and aggregations in rows such as:\n\"Average daily sales\" is a measurement that is stored in the fact table. The fact table also contains foreign keys from the dimension tables, where time series (e.g. dates) and other dimensions (e.g. store location, salesperson, product) are stored.\n\nAll foreign keys between fact and dimension tables should be surrogate keys, not reused keys from operational data.\n\n\nA fact table might contain either detail level facts or facts that have been aggregated (fact tables that contain aggregated facts are often instead called summary tables).\n\nSpecial care must be taken when handling ratios and percentage. One good design rule is to never store percentages or ratios in fact tables but only calculate these in the data access tool. Thus only store the numerator and denominator in the fact table, which then can be aggregated and the aggregated stored values can then be used for calculating the ratio or percentage in the data access tool.\n\nIn the real world, it is possible to have a fact table that contains no measures or facts. These tables are called \"factless fact tables\", or \"junction tables\".\n\nThe \"factless fact tables\" can for example be used for modellings many-to-many relationships or capture events.\n\nThere are four fundamental measurement events, which characterize all fact tables.\n\n\nAn alternative approach is the four step design process described in Kimball: select the business process, declare the grain, identify the dimensions, identify the facts.\n"}
{"id": "4685049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4685049", "title": "Federation of British Industries", "text": "Federation of British Industries\n\nThe Federation of British Industries (FBI) was an employers' association in the United Kingdom.\n\nFounded by the Midlands industrialist Dudley Docker in 1916 as the United British Industries' Association, but renamed later that same year, it was initially composed of 124 firms which each gave £1,000 for its foundation. The FBI never took part in labour relations but was progressively involved in tariff reform. It slowly gathered other regional and overseas organisations and was incorporated by Royal Charter in 1923.\n\nIn 1965, it merged with the British Employers' Confederation and the National Association of British Manufacturers to form the Confederation of British Industry. It was by far the biggest organisation of the three, composed of about 9,000 individual firms and 272 trade associations by 1964.\n\nPresidents included Sir Vincent Caillard (1919), Sir Peter Rylands (1919–1921), Oliver Carleton Armstrong (1921–1922), Sir Eric Geddes (1923–1925), Sir Max Muspratt (1926–1927), Lord Gainford (1927–1928), Lord Ebbisham (1928–1929), Lennox B. Lee (1929–1930), Sir James Lithgow (1930–1932), Sir George Beharrell (1932–1933), Sir George Macdonogh (1933–1934), Lord Herbert Scott (1934–1935), Sir Francis Joseph (1935–1936), Lord Hirst (1936–1937), Peter Bennett (1938–1940), Sir George Nelson (1943–1944), Sir Clive Baillieu (1945–1947), Sir Frederick Bain (1947–1949), Sir Robert Sinclair (1949–1951), Sir Archibald Forbes (1951–1953), Sir Harry Pilkington (1953–1955), Sir Graham Hayman (1955–1957), Sir Hugh Beaver (1957–1959), Sir William McFadzean (1959–1961), Sir Cyril Harrison (1961–1963), and Sir Peter Runge (1963–1965). Directors (later retitled director-general) included Sir Roland Nugent from 1916 to 1917 and 1919 to 1932, Sir Guy Locock from 1932 to 1945, and Sir Norman Kipping from 1946 to 1965.\n\n"}
{"id": "11826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11826", "title": "Free market", "text": "Free market\n\nIn economics, a free market is an idealized system in which the prices for goods and services are determined by the open market and by consumers. In a free market the laws and forces of supply and demand are free from any intervention by a government, by a price-setting monopoly, or by other authority. Proponents of the concept of free market contrast it with a regulated market, in which a government intervenes in supply and demand through various methods — such as tariffs — used to restrict trade and to protect the local economy. In an idealized free-market economy, prices for goods and services are set freely by the forces of supply and demand and are allowed to reach their point of equilibrium without intervention by government policy.\n\nScholars contrast the concept of a free market with the concept of a coordinated market in fields of study such as political economy, new institutional economics, economic sociology, and political science. All of these fields emphasize the importance in actually existing market systems of rule-making institutions external to the simple forces of supply and demand which create space for those forces to operate to control productive output and distribution.\n\nAlthough free markets are commonly associated with capitalism within a market economy in contemporary usage and popular culture, free markets have also been advocated by free-market anarchists, market socialists, and some proponents of cooperatives and advocates of profit sharing. Criticism of the theoretical concept may regard systems with significant market power, inequality of bargaining power, or information asymmetry as less than free, with regulation being necessary to control those imbalances in order to allow markets to function more efficiently as well as produce more desirable social outcomes.\n\nThe laissez-faire principle expresses a preference for an absence of non-market pressures on prices and wages, such as those from discriminatory government taxes, subsidies, tariffs, regulations of purely private behavior, or government-granted or coercive monopolies. Friedrich Hayek argued in \"The Pure Theory of Capital\" that the goal is the preservation of the unique information contained in the price itself.\n\nThe definition of \"free market\" has been disputed and made complex by collectivist political philosophers and socialist economic ideas. This contention arose from the divergence from classical economists such as Richard Cantillon, Adam Smith, David Ricardo, and Thomas Robert Malthus, and from the continental economic science developed primarily by the Spanish scholastic and French classical economists, including Anne-Robert-Jacques Turgot, Baron de Laune, Jean-Baptiste Say and Frédéric Bastiat.\n\nDuring the marginal revolution, subjective value theory was rediscovered.\n\nVarious forms of socialism based on free markets have existed since the 19th century. Early notable socialist proponents of free markets include Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, Benjamin Tucker, and the Ricardian socialists. These economists believed that genuinely free markets and voluntary exchange could not exist within the exploitative conditions of capitalism.\n\nThese proposals ranged from various forms of worker cooperatives operating in a free market economy, such as the mutualist system proposed by Proudhon, to state-owned enterprises operating in unregulated and open markets. These models of socialism are not to be confused with other forms of market socialism (e.g. the Lange model) where publicly owned enterprises are coordinated by various degrees of economic planning, or where capital good prices are determined through marginal cost pricing.\n\nAdvocates of free-market socialism such as Jaroslav Vanek argue that genuinely free markets are not possible under conditions of private ownership of productive property. Instead, he contends that the class differences and inequalities in income and power that result from private ownership enable the interests of the dominant class to skew the market to their favor, either in the form of monopoly and market power, or by utilizing their wealth and resources to legislate government policies that benefit their specific business interests. Additionally, Vanek states that workers in a socialist economy based on cooperative and self-managed enterprises have stronger incentives to maximize productivity because they would receive a share of the profits (based on the overall performance of their enterprise) in addition to receiving their fixed wage or salary.\n\nSocialists also assert that free market capitalism leads to an excessively skewed distribution of income, which in turn leads to social instability. As a result, corrective measures in the form of social welfare, re-distributive taxation, and administrative costs are required, which end up being paid into workers hands who spend and help the economy to run. They claim corporate monopolies run rampant in free markets, with endless agency over the consumer. Thus, free market socialism desires government regulation of markets to prevent social instability, although at the cost of taxpayer dollars.\n\nAs explained above, for classical economists such as Adam Smith the term \"free market\" does not necessarily refer to a market free from government interference, but rather free from all forms of economic privilege, monopolies, and artificial scarcities. This implies that economic rents, i.e. profits generated from a lack of perfect competition, must be reduced or eliminated as much as possible through free competition.\n\nEconomic theory suggests the returns to land and other natural resources are economic rents that cannot be reduced in such a way because of their perfect inelastic supply. Some economic thinkers emphasize the need to share those rents as an essential requirement for a well functioning market. It is suggested this would both eliminate the need for regular taxes that have a negative effect on trade (see deadweight loss) as well as release land and resources that are speculated upon or monopolised. Two features that improve the competition and free market mechanisms. Winston Churchill supported this view by his statement \"Land is the mother of all monopoly\".\n\nThe American economist and social philosopher Henry George, the most famous proponent of this thesis, wanted to accomplish this through a high land value tax that replaces all other taxes. Followers of his ideas are often called Georgists or Geoists and Geolibertarians.\n\nLéon Walras, one of the founders of the neoclassical economics who helped formulate the general equilibrium theory, had a very similar view. He argued that free competition could only be realized under conditions of state ownership of natural resources and land. Additionally, income taxes could be eliminated because the state would receive income to finance public services through owning such resources and enterprises.\n\nThe stronger incentives to maximize productivity that Vanek conceives as possible in a socialist economy based on cooperative and self-managed enterprises might be accomplished in a capitalistic free market if employee-owned companies were the norm, as envisioned by various thinkers including Louis O. Kelso and James S. Albus.\n\nConditions that must exist for unregulated markets to behave as \"free markets\" are summarized at perfect competition. An absence of any of these perfect competition ideal conditions is a \"market failure.\" Most schools of economics allow that regulatory intervention may provide a substitute force to counter a market failure. Under this thinking, this form of market regulation may be better than an unregulated market at providing a \"free market.\"\n\nDemand for an item (such as goods or services) refers to the market pressure from people trying to buy it. Buyers have a maximum price they are willing to pay and sellers have a minimum price they are willing to offer their product. The point at which the supply and demand curves meet is the equilibrium price of the good and quantity demanded. Sellers willing to offer their goods at a lower price than the equilibrium price receive the difference as producer surplus. Buyers willing to pay for goods at a higher price than the equilibrium price receive the difference as consumer surplus.\n\nThe model is commonly applied to wages in the market for labor. The typical roles of supplier and consumer are reversed. The suppliers are individuals, who try to sell (supply) their labor for the highest price. The consumers are businesses, which try to buy (demand) the type of labor they need at the lowest price. As more people offer their labor in that market, the equilibrium wage decreases and the equilibrium level of employment increases as the supply curve shifts to the right. The opposite happens if fewer people offer their wages in the market as the supply curve shifts to the left.\n\nIn a free market, individuals and firms taking part in these transactions have the liberty to enter, leave and participate in the market as they so choose. Prices and quantities are allowed to adjust according to economic conditions in order to reach equilibrium and properly allocate resources. However, in many countries around the world, governments seek to intervene in the free market in order to achieve certain social or political agendas. Governments may attempt to create social equality or equality of outcome by intervening in the market through actions such as imposing a minimum wage (price floor) or erecting price controls (price ceiling). Other lesser-known goals are also pursued, such as in the United States, where the federal government subsidizes owners of fertile land to not grow crops in order to prevent the supply curve from further shifting to the right and decreasing the equilibrium price. This is done under the justification of maintaining farmers' profits; due to the relative inelasticity of demand for crops, increased supply would lower the price but not significantly increase quantity demanded, thus placing pressure on farmers to exit the market. Such interventions are often done in the name of maintaining basic assumptions of free markets, such as the idea that the costs of production must be included in the price of goods. Pollution and depletion costs are sometimes NOT included in the cost of production (a manufacturer that withdraws water at one location then discharges it polluted downstream, avoiding the cost of treating the water), so governments may opt to impose regulations in an attempt to try to internalize all of the cost of production (and ultimately include them in the price of the goods).\n\nAdvocates of the free market contend that government intervention hampers economic growth by disrupting the natural allocation of resources according to supply and demand, while critics of the free market contend that government intervention is sometimes necessary to protect a country's economy from better-developed and more influential economies, while providing the stability necessary for wise long-term investment.\nMilton Friedman pointed to failures of central planning, price controls and state-owned corporations, particularly in the Soviet Union and Communist China, while Ha-Joon Chang cites the examples of post-war Japan and the growth of South Korea's steel industry.\n\nGeneral equilibrium theory has demonstrated, with varying degrees of mathematical rigor over time, that under certain conditions of competition, the law of supply and demand predominates in this ideal free and competitive market, influencing prices toward an equilibrium that balances the demands for the products against the supplies. At these equilibrium prices, the market distributes the products to the purchasers according to each purchaser's preference (or utility) for each product and within the relative limits of each buyer's purchasing power. This result is described as market efficiency, or more specifically a Pareto optimum.\n\nThis equilibrating behavior of free markets requires certain assumptions about their agents, collectively known as perfect competition, which therefore cannot be results of the market that they create. Among these assumptions are several which are impossible to fully achieve in a real market, such as complete information, interchangeable goods and services, and lack of market power. The question then is what approximations of these conditions guarantee approximations of market efficiency, and which failures in competition generate overall market failures. Several Nobel Prizes in Economics have been awarded for analyses of market failures due to asymmetric information.\n\nA free market does not require the existence of competition, however it does require a framework that allows new market entrants. Hence, in the lack of coercive barriers, and in markets with low entry cost it is generally understood that competition flourishes in a free-market environment. It often suggests the presence of the profit motive, although neither a profit motive or profit itself are necessary for a free market. All modern free markets are understood to include entrepreneurs, both individuals and businesses. Typically, a modern free market economy would include other features, such as a stock exchange and a financial services sector, but they do not define it.\n\nFriedrich Hayek popularized the view that market economies promote spontaneous order which results in a better \"allocation of societal resources than any design could achieve.\" According to this view, in market economies are characterized by the formation of complex transactional networks which produce and distribute goods and services throughout the economy. These networks are not designed, but nevertheless emerge as a result of decentralized individual economic decisions. The idea of spontaneous order is an elaboration on the invisible hand proposed by Adam Smith in \"The Wealth of Nations\". Smith wrote that the individual who:\n\nSmith pointed out that one does not get one's dinner by appealing to the brother-love of the butcher, the farmer or the baker. Rather one appeals to their self-interest, and pays them for their labor.\n\nSupporters of this view claim that spontaneous order is superior to any order that does not allow individuals to make their own choices of what to produce, what to buy, what to sell, and at what prices, due to the number and complexity of the factors involved. They further believe that any attempt to implement central planning will result in more disorder, or a less efficient production and distribution of goods and services.\n\nCritics, such as political economist Karl Polanyi, question whether a spontaneously ordered market can exist, completely free of \"distortions\" of political policy; claiming that even the ostensibly freest markets require a state to exercise coercive power in some areas – to enforce contracts, to govern the formation of labor unions, to spell out the rights and obligations of corporations, to shape who has standing to bring legal actions, to define what constitutes an unacceptable conflict of interest, etc.\n\nThe Heritage Foundation, a right-wing think tank, tried to identify the key factors necessary to measure the degree of freedom of economy of a particular country. In 1986 they introduced the Index of Economic Freedom, which is based on some fifty variables. This and other similar indices do not \"define\" a free market, but measure the \"degree\" to which a modern economy is free, meaning in most cases, free of state intervention. The variables are divided into the following major groups:\nThese free market principles are what helped America transition to a free market economy. International free trade improved the country and in order for Americans to prosper from a strong economy they had no choice but to embrace it. Each group is assigned a numerical value between 1 and 5; IEF is the arithmetical mean of the values, rounded to the nearest hundredth. Initially, countries which were traditionally considered capitalistic received high ratings, but the method improved over time. Some economists, like Milton Friedman and other laissez-faire economists have argued that there is a direct relationship between economic growth and economic freedom, and some studies suggest this is true. Ongoing debates exist among scholars regarding methodological issues in empirical studies of the connection between economic freedom and economic growth. These debates and studies continue to explore just what that relationship entails.\n\nThe principles of a free market are defined as:\n\nCritics of the free market have argued that, in real world situations, it has proven to be susceptible to the development of price fixing monopolies. Such reasoning has led to government intervention, e.g. the United States antitrust law.\n\nTwo prominent Canadian authors argue that government at times has to intervene to ensure competition in large and important industries. Naomi Klein illustrates this roughly in her work \"The Shock Doctrine\" and John Ralston Saul more humorously illustrates this through various examples in \"The Collapse of Globalism and the Reinvention of the World\". While its supporters argue that only a free market can create healthy competition and therefore more business and reasonable prices, opponents say that a free market in its purest form may result in the opposite. According to Klein and Ralston, the merging of companies into giant corporations or the privatization of government-run industry and national assets often result in monopolies (or oligopolies) requiring government intervention to force competition and reasonable prices. Another form of market failure is speculation, where transactions are made to profit from short term fluctuation, rather from the intrinsic value of the companies or products.\n\nThis criticism has been challenged by historians such as Lawrence Reed, who argued that monopolies have historically failed to form even in the absence of anti-trust law. This is because monopolies are inherently difficult to maintain: a company that tries to maintain its monopoly by buying out new competitors, for instance, is incentivizing newcomers to enter the market in hope of a buy-out.\n\nAmerican philosopher and author Cornel West has derisively termed what he perceives as dogmatic arguments for laissez-faire economic policies as \"free-market fundamentalism\". West has contended that such mentality \"trivializes the concern for public interest\" and \"makes money-driven, poll-obsessed elected officials deferential to corporate goals of profit – often at the cost of the common good.\" American political philosopher Michael J. Sandel contends that in the last 30 years the United States has moved beyond just having a market economy and has become a market society where literally everything is for sale, including aspects of social and civic life such as education, access to justice and political influence. The economic historian Karl Polanyi was highly critical of the idea of the market-based society in his book \"The Great Transformation\", noting that any attempt at its creation would undermine human society and the common good.\n\nCritics of free market economics range from those who reject markets entirely in favour of a planned economy as advocated by various Marxists, to those who wish to see market failures regulated to various degrees or supplemented by government interventions. Keynesians support market roles for government, such as using fiscal policy for economic stimulus when actions in the private sector lead to sub-optimal economic outcomes of depressions or recessions. Business cycle theory is used by Keynesians to explain \"liquidity traps\", by which underconsumption occurs, to argue for government intervention with fiscal policy.\n\nSome would argue, only one known example of a true free market exists, which is the black market. The black market is under constant threat by the police, but under no circumstances do the police regulate the substances that are being created. The black market produces wholly unregulated goods, and are purchased and consumed unregulated. That is to say, anyone can produce anything at any time, and anyone can purchase anything available at any time. The alternative view is that the black market is not a free market at all since high prices and monopolies are often enforced through murder, theft and destruction. Black markets can only exist peripheral to regulated markets where laws are being regularly enforced. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "5527335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5527335", "title": "Frédéric Fekkai", "text": "Frédéric Fekkai\n\nFrédéric Fekkai (born 1958) is a French celebrity hairstylist and entrepreneur in the beauty industry.\n\nFekkai was born and raised in Aix-en-Provence, France. His father was Algerian and his mother Vietnamese. \nIn 1979 at the age of 21, Fekkai moved to New York to start his career.\n\nAfter creating hairstyles for models on both catwalks and magazine covers, he opened two salons in New York City and Los Angeles and went on to launch his own line of hair care products. Fekkai has styled the hair of many prominent women, such as Kim Basinger, Jessica Lange, Sigourney Weaver, Claudia Schiffer, Debra Messing, Renée Zellweger, and Hillary Clinton. He is often regarded as a celebrity hair stylist.\n\nIn 2015, Fekkai and his wife acquired Côté Bastide, a 25-year-old lifestyle brand from his hometown of Aix-en-Provence. The couple relaunched the business as Bastide, a collection of natural beauty and luxury home products. The name is inspired by the couple's own Bastide (Provençal manor) in Aix\n\nFekkai divides his time between New York City and Aix-en-Provence, France\n\n"}
{"id": "45199694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45199694", "title": "Gerald F. Davis", "text": "Gerald F. Davis\n\nGerald Fredrick (Jerry) Davis (born 1961) is an American sociologist, and Professor of Sociology at the University of Michigan, known for his work on corporate networks, social movements and organization theory.\n\nDavis obtained his AB in philosophy and psychology at the University of Michigan in 1984, his MA in Sociology from Stanford University, and his PhD in Organizational Behavior at the Stanford Graduate School of Business in 1990.\n\nAfter graduation Davis started his academic career at Northwestern University's Kellogg Graduate School of Management as assistant professor in 1990, and got promoted to associate professor. In 1994 he returned to the Stanford University Graduate School of Business as associate professor, and got promoted to full professor. In the year 1997–98 he was research fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences in Stanford, California. Since 2001 he is professor of sociology at the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan, where he was also professor of management and organizations from 2002 to 2004. \n\nDavis described his research interests as \"broadly concerned with the effects of finance on society. Recent writings examine how ideas about corporate social responsibility have evolved to meet changes in the structures and geographic footprint of multinational corporations; whether \"shareholder capitalism\" is still a viable model for economic development; how income inequality in an economy is related to corporate size and structure; why theories about organizations do (or do not) progress; how architecture shapes social networks and innovation in organizations; why stock markets spread to some countries and not others; and whether there exist viable organizational alternatives to shareholder-owned corporations in the United States.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24081483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24081483", "title": "Howard M. Metzenbaum United States Courthouse", "text": "Howard M. Metzenbaum United States Courthouse\n\nThe Howard M. Metzenbaum U.S. Courthouse is a historic courthouse and post office building located on Superior Avenue in downtown Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, Ohio. Its west side faces Public Square and its north side faces The Mall. It was formerly the Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse and also known as Old Federal Building and Post Office.\n\nThe Howard M. Metzenbaum U.S. Courthouse, also known as the Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, is a monumental anchor to Cleveland's Civic Mall. Fronting the Mall and Public Square, it was the first building erected under Cleveland's 1903 Group Plan, which illustrates the urban planning ideals of the City Beautiful movement.\n\nNew York Architect Arnold W. Brunner (1857–1925) designed this imposing building under the direction of Supervising Architect of the Treasury James Knox Taylor (1857–1929). It is one of 35 buildings constructed during Taylor's tenure (1883–1912) that were designed by independent architects commissioned by the U.S. Treasury Department under the Tarsney Act. The 1893 Act authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to use private architects, selected through competitions, to design Federal buildings. As a process, it manifested the growing demand for greater architectural standards for public buildings and opened the way for additional appropriations to maintain those standards.\n\nAs the first building erected under the Group Plan, the federal building was the model for later structures. The Group Plan proposed that local and federal government buildings be placed around a grand Mall. Embraced from the late 19th century into the first decades of the 20th century, the City Beautiful movement had its beginnings with the monumental planning and predominately classical architectural style of the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago. Celebrated architect Daniel Burnham, who was instrumental in promoting the nationwide adoption of City Beautiful Movement principles, served as a member of the design team that produced the Group Plan. Arnold W. Brunner, working as an independent architect, and John Merven Carrère, of the prominent New York firm of Carrère and Hastings, also served on the team. The Federal Building formed one half of the Mall's termination at Superior Avenue. Cleveland's Public Library (1925), forming the other half of this terminus, emulates the Federal Building in scale, mass, and general overall appearance.\n\nThe building was listed in the National Register of Historic Places in 1974. On May 27, 1998, the building was officially renamed in honor of U.S. Senator Howard Metzenbaum of Ohio.\n\nThe Howard M. Metzenbaum U.S. Courthouse is one of Cleveland's great monumental public buildings, skillfully illustrating the strong, classical characteristics of Beaux-Arts architecture. The five-story, granite-faced building was constructed between 1903 and 1910. The building covers the entire city block bounded by Rockwell Avenue on the north, Superior Avenue on the south, East Third Street on the east, and Public Square on the west.\n\nInspiration for the design of this Beaux Arts building came from the Place de la Concorde in Paris as well as the work of French architect and theorist Francois Blondel. The resulting design presents a rusticated first floor and Corinthian order columns and pilasters on each elevation. These massive columns and pilasters define the sequence of window bays on the second, third, and fourth stories. Rusticated stone-arched windows with carved keystones adorn the first story. The more ornate second-story windows are capped with classically inspired pediments and balustraded sills. The third- and fourth-story window openings have molded surrounds and bracketed sills. Screening the fifth floor is an expansive entablature capped by a balustraded parapet that rises nine feet. A low-hipped, standing-seam copper roof crowns the building with attic dormer windows facing the interior light court. The parapets are adorned with shields and carved stone eagles at the building's corners.\n\nThe main entrance to the building is centered on the Superior Avenue facade. Granite steps lead to three rusticated stone arches once fitted with cast bronze doors and ornate bronze lanterns hang from cast bronze brackets. The original doors have been replaced.\n\nFlanking the primary entrance are two important sculptures executed by the famed sculptor Daniel Chester French (1850–1931). \"\"Jurisprudence\" is located on the Public Square corner, while \"Commerce\" sits at the corner of East Third Street and Superior Avenue. \"Jurisprudence\" is personified by a mother figure clasping her baby while a criminal crouches in chains. \"Commerce\" is depicted as a female figure holding a model ship in one hand while her other arm rests on a globe representing the opportunity for world trade. At her right is \"Electricity\",\" symbolized by a female figure holding a magnet catching electrical sparks. \"\"Steam\",\" located to her left, is represented by a male figure grasping a wheel.\n\nOn the interior, the grand main lobby dominates the first floor as it runs east to west across the entire length of the building. The floors, walls, and vaulted ceiling of the lobby are surfaced with marble. Original chandeliers illuminate the space. The postal service windows are located along the lobby's north wall. Marble stairs wrap around three sides of the elevator shafts, located at the east and west ends of the public lobby. Cast-bronze, spread-wing eagles standing on globes appear over each pair of elevator doors. Corner offices in the upper floors are adorned with impressive murals depicting significant events in the history of Cleveland. Among the magnificent artworks are \"\"City of Cleveland Welcomes the Arts\" by Will Hicok Low (1853–1932), and the \"Battle of Lake Erie\" by Rufus Fairchild Zogbaum (1849–1925). Murals in the ceremonial courtrooms on the third floor are \"The Common Law\" by Henry Siddons Mowbray (1858–1928), and \"The Law\"\" by Edwin Howland Blashfield (1848–1936).\n\nA major renovation project to restore public spaces and modernize the mechanical systems was initiated in 2002. Although the primary activities of the U.S. District Court system have moved to the new Carl B. Stokes Federal Court House Building a few blocks west, the ceremonial courtrooms in the Metzenbaum Courthouse will continue to be used for public hearings and proceedings. New client agencies moving into the renovated building will include the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, the Office of the U.S. Trustee, and the U.S. Marshals Service.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20584883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20584883", "title": "Ignacio Uría Mendizábal", "text": "Ignacio Uría Mendizábal\n\nIgnacio Uría Mendizábal (4 January 1938 – 3 December 2008) was a Spanish Basque businessman and head of construction company, Altuna y Uría.\n\nUría was shot dead on 3 December 2008 outside a restaurant. The attack was blamed on ETA. He had received threats from ETA. Uría had been working on a high-speed train route between the Basque Country and Madrid. ETA threatened several companies and their workers involved in the train project as it views such construction as an imposition on the Basque Country by the Spanish and French governments.\n"}
{"id": "44951426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44951426", "title": "Johann Graf", "text": "Johann Graf\n\nJohann Graf (born 1946) is an Austrian businessman, the founder and owner of Novomatic, an Austrian gambling company.\n\nGraf was born in Austria in 1946. Graf was born in a one bedroom flat and was raised by his grandparents. His first line of work was an apprentice butcher and it was presumed that he would follow in the line of the family business and assume control of the family’s butcher shop. It was in 1974 when he decided that he would venture off on his own. \n\nGraf’s professional career started in 1974. It was then that Graf and Gerhard Brodnik founded Brodnik & Graf GmbH. This company specialized in importing Belgian pinball machines to be set up in pubs, cafes and brothels.\n\nGraf is divorced with three children and lives in Vienna. He collects vintage cars and owns some 120, most of which are Jaguars. The eldest of his three children is the chief technology officer of Novomatic. \n\nAccording to \"Forbes\"’ list of global billionaires, he is listed at number 208 with a net worth of $7 billion as of July 2015.\n"}
{"id": "1343611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1343611", "title": "John Cudahy", "text": "John Cudahy\n\nJohn Clarence Cudahy (December 10, 1887 – September 6, 1943) was an American real estate developer and diplomat. In the years leading up to World War II, Cudahy served as United States ambassador to Poland and Belgium, and as United States minister to Luxembourg and the Irish Free State.\n\nCudahy was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the son of Patrick Cudahy the meat packing industrialist and Anna Cudahy. He graduated from Harvard University in 1910 and from the University of Wisconsin Law School in 1913.\n\nCudahy served during World War I as a lieutenant in Company B of the U.S. Army's 339th Infantry Regiment. This regiment was part of the Polar Bear Expedition, which was sent to north Russia to intervene on behalf of the anti-communist forces in the Russian Civil War. On November 14, 1918, Cudahy led a counter-attack that succeeded in breaking through and routing the 1,000 Bolshevik troops that on November 11 (Armistice Day) had encircled and attacked the 600 American, Canadian, and Royal Scots soldiers who were holding the village of Tulgas on the Northern Dvina River. However, his eventual disillusionment with the campaign in north Russia led him to write (under a pseudonym) the book \"Archangel: The American War with Russia\".\n\nBack in the United States, Cudahy headed his family's real estate company, building the Cudahy Tower Apartments on the shore of Lake Michigan in Milwaukee.\n\nBetween 1933 and 1940, Cudahy served the United States as minister to several European nations.\n\nFrom September 6, 1933, until April 23, 1937, Cudahy served as the American ambassador to Poland. His time in Poland was marked by a militarily backed government under Józef Piłsudski and continued tensions between Poland and Nazi Germany under Adolf Hitler.\n\nFrom August 23, 1937, Cudahy served as minister to the Irish Free State, which became the Republic of Ireland in December 1937. His official title was Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary, and he served until January 15, 1940.\n\nIn January 1940, Cudahy became both the ambassador to Belgium and the minister to Luxembourg. He was forced to leave these posts after Germany occupied Luxembourg and Belgium in May 1940, and the nations set up governments-in-exile.\n\nIn 1941, \"Life\" magazine commissioned Cudahy to interview Hitler, which he did at Berghof. Cudahy later authored the book \"The Armies March\", recounting his experiences in Europe leading up to the war, including the Battle of Belgium and his meeting with Hitler.\n\nCudahy died in September 1943, when he was thrown from a horse on his Brown Deer estate north of Milwaukee. Cudahy's son, Michael Cudahy, founded Marquette Electronics and became a major philanthropist in the city of Milwaukee. Cudahy's daughter, Mary Keogh-Stringer (born Mary Toulgas Cudahy), was a successful artist; the dedication of \"The Armies March\" reads;\nfor Toulgas Cudahy\nwhose name was taken from the battle twenty-three years ago on Armistice Day in the American war with Russia,<br>in the hope that her generation may see an enduring armistice.\n\n"}
{"id": "39894325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39894325", "title": "John Francis Smithwick", "text": "John Francis Smithwick\n\nJohn Francis Smithwick (1844-27 August 1913) was an Irish businessman and politician.\n\nJohn Francis Smithwick was a member of the Smithwick's brewing family and took over as head of the firm. He was active in local politics, twice becoming High Sheriff of County Kilkenny and once of Kilkenny City, of which he was mayor in 1884. He was the first chairman of Kilkenny County Council, and one of the Auditors of the National Bank.\n\nFrom 1880 to 1886 he was Member of Parliament for Kilkenny City, a member of the Home Rule League. As a supporter of Charles Stewart Parnell he was one of the 32 members who were suspended in the sitting of 3 February 1881.\n"}
{"id": "51360659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51360659", "title": "Juan Carlos de La Cuesta", "text": "Juan Carlos de La Cuesta\n\nJuan Carlos de La Cuesta is a Colombian executive and the ex chairman of Atlético Nacional of the Categoría Primera A. He is a former accountant and financial manager for first Postobón and subsequently Organización Ardila Lülle, as well as serving as the club's own finance manager.\n"}
{"id": "36092552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36092552", "title": "Juha Sipilä", "text": "Juha Sipilä\n\nJuha Petri Sipilä (; born in Veteli, 25 April 1961) is the current Prime Minister of Finland. A relative newcomer to politics, he has a successful background in business. He has been the leader of the Centre Party since 9 June 2012. After leading the Centre party to victory in the 2015 general election, Sipilä formed a centre-right coalition and was appointed Prime Minister by the Finnish Parliament on 29 May 2015.\n\nSipilä graduated from Puolanka lukio (Finland's university-preparatory high school), completing the matriculation examination with high marks in 1980. In 1986 Sipilä earned his Master's degree in science (technology) from the University of Oulu.\n\nSipilä has the rank of Captain in the reserves of the Finnish Defence Forces.\n\nSipilä's career started at Lauri Kuokkanen Ltd., first as a thesis worker and later as a product development manager. Changing jobs, he became a partner and later CEO at Solitra Oy. In 1998, Sipilä started his own business, Fortel Invest Oy. In 2002–2005 he worked as the CEO of Elektrobit Oyj, then returned to his own business.\n\nSipilä was managing director of Solitra in 1992 and became the main owner in 1994. Sipilä sold Solitra to American ADC Telecommunications in 1996, becoming a multimillionaire from the proceeds. Business ADC Mersum Oy was resold to Remec in 2001.\n\nIn 1996, Sipilä's income was the highest in Finland. According to \"Ilta-Sanomat\" he has been on the Board of Directors of 120 companies.\n\nJuha Sipilä was part-owner in the start-up company Chempolis. According to MOT Program (YLE) in 2012, Chempolis had received 10 million euros in public funds over 15 years along with extra funds from the Finnish Innovation Fund SITRA and Finnish state-owned financing company Finnvera. According to YLE TV News in 2017, the majority state-owned energy company Fortum saved Chempolis from bankruptcy by investing 6 million euros into the company in October 2016. Thereafter, children of Sipilä owned 5% of the company and Fortum 34%. Sipilä had been in control of the state owned companies including Fortum since the end of 2015. The Prime Ministers of Finland have not had the control of state companies previously.\n\nPrime Minister Juha Sipilä lobbied for Chempolis in India in 2016. Chempolis issued a press release on its joint venture with India's Numaligarh Refinery to build a biorefinery in North East India (Assam) for the production of bioethanol following meetings between Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India’s Finance Minister Arun Jaitley and Finland’s Prime Minister Juha Sipilä on 12–14 February 2016.\n\nAs a student, Sipilä worked for a short time in the Finnish Centre Youth, but otherwise he did not have experience in party politics before being elected to the Finnish Parliament in 2011 with 5,543 personal votes.\n\nIn April 2012, Sipilä announced his candidacy for the chairman's position in the party congress of the summer. On June 9, 2012, the party congress elected him chairman. He beat Tuomo Puumala in the second round by 1251 to 872 delegate votes. Sipilä led his party to victory in the 2015 election, where the Centre Party gained 14 seats compared to the previous election. With 30,758 personal votes he was the most popular candidate in the election. Following the election, he was tasked with forming a government coalition; and as the leader of the Centre Party, he began formal negotiations with the Finns Party and the National Coalition Party and formed a three-party majority coalition. \n\nSipilä's government has struggled with Finland's poor economic performance, caused according to Paul Krugman and others by the constraints of its eurozone membership and aftershocks from the European debt crisis, but also by the decline of the paper industry, the fall of Nokia and a diminution in exports to Russia. Its attempts to address the problems through policies of spending cuts and reducing labour costs have been controversial, particularly cuts to education spending that are seen as threatening Finland's successful public education system. These austerity measures have partly been implemented due to European Commission pressure, which has urged Finland to improve its adherence to the Stability and Growth Pact and reform its labour market to improve competitiveness. On 22 July 2015, Sipilä announced his government's commitment to reducing Finnish wage costs by 5% by 2019, an internal devaluation caused by Finland's loss of the ability to devalue its currency to boost competitiveness.\n\nThere have been protests against the government's austerity measures.\n\nIn 2017 summer Finns Party split into two parties The Blue Reform and the current Finns Party. The Blue Reform members of the former Finns Party, including all ministers, remained in the government after the split.\n\nIn 2016, Sipiläs close relatives were revealed to be part-owners of the bankrupt Talvivaara Mining Company, later renamed and re-organised into the company Terrafame, which had received considerable funds from the Finnish government. A Parliamentary Ombudsman later decided that Sipilä didn't face a conflict of interest over mine deal.\n\nHowever, it was later revealed that Sipilä had contacted Yleisradio in order to instruct them on how to report on the Talvivaara and Terrafame incidents, leading to suspicion that YLE had been politically pressured.\n\nSipilä grew up in the small town of Puolanka, northern Finland, east of Oulu, the firstborn of four children to mother Pirkko and father Pentti Sipilä, an elementary school teacher.\n\nIn 1981, Sipilä married Minna-Maaria Juntunen at Oulu Cathedral. They have five children. Their youngest son, Tuomo (born in 1993), died on 18 February 2015.\n\nSipilä is known for his interest in wood gas electricity generation, which began as a hobby. The cost to bring power to his summer cottage seemed too high, and he became interested in wood gas. First, he produced the electricity with wind power and with a diesel generator, but then he started building wood gas plants. He converted an old Chevrolet El Camino into \"El Kamina\" (\"Kamiina\" means \"stove\" in Finnish.) powered by wood gas, with electronic control systems. This hobby was spun off into a company, Volter Oy, which produces wood gas power plants. A 10-house ecovillage in Kempele is powered by one such power plant.\n\nThe Sipiläs are members of Rauhan Sana (transl. \"Word of Peace\", affiliated in North America with ALCA), a small Laestadian revivalist denomination within the state Lutheran church of Finland. The Sipiläs first met at a Laestadian summer camp as teenagers. Sipilä has stated he does not consider himself a legalistic Laestadian, and in interviews he has carefully distinguished his own Laestadian denomination from his home region's other, predominant, exclusive Laestadian group (Conservative Laestadianism). The chairman of board in Juha Sipilä's religious community was his wife’s brother in 2015. According to Juha Sipilä, in 2012 he participated in the International Christian Chamber of Commerce ICCC.\n\n"}
{"id": "5992144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5992144", "title": "Kitchen Con", "text": "Kitchen Con\n\nKitchen Con: Writing on the Restaurant Racket is a book about the restaurant business written by restaurant critic Trevor White, who is also the editor of \"The Dubliner Magazine\" and of a restaurant guide in Ireland - \"The Dubliner 100 Best Restaurants\". \nThe title of the book is a reference to \"\" by Anthony Bourdain. In the book, White describes how he believes that diners are routinely duped, with reference to his own career and to some of the bigger names in what he calls \"the racket\", including Gordon Ramsay, Jean-Christophe Novelli and the Michelin Guide.\n\nThe book was published by Mainstream Publishing 5 September 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "51587394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51587394", "title": "Laurits Christian Meulengracht", "text": "Laurits Christian Meulengracht\n\nLaurits Christian Meulengracht or Laurits Christopher Meulengracht (14 February 1837 - 9 April 1903) was a Danish businessman and brewer who became one of the wealthiest men in Denmark in the 19th century. He received the Order of the Dannebrog and Knight of the Dannebrog. \n\nHis father Lars Christian Meulengracht died 6 months before he was born so he grew up in his grandfather Harboe Meulengracht's house. 15 years old he started an internship in the store of Malthe Conrad Lottrup, a local businessman who among other things owned a sizable brewery. In 1858 he was sent to Copenhagen to study trade further and in 1862 he started a successful business in London. However, by 1870 his former mentor Malthe Conrad Lottrup had fallen ill and called Meulengracht home to take over management of Lottrup's Ceres Brewery. \n\nMeulengracht took over the brewery and managed it through a lifetime. Initially he rationalized and bought new technology in the form of an steam engine. In the years 1872-88 a large expansion program was undertaken that eventually made Ceres the largest brewery in Jutland and Meulengracht one of the wealthiest people in Aarhus. Tax records show he paid more in taxes than even contemporary Otto Mønsted and Hans Broge. Meulengracht eventually moved into a new home on the Ceres-complex which eventually became a social focal point for the local upper class. As an employer he was known for his ability to make opposing groups work together and privately Meulengracht was active in charity and advocacy work. In 1876 he was elected to the city council and held his seat for 14 years, working in numerous committees particularly on public works and infrastructure. Meulengracht was also one of the forces behind the establishment Aarhus Theatre and he sat on the first board after it was opened.\n\nLaurits Meulengracht died 9 April 1903, after lengthy illness and during a healing trip to Monte Carlo. He was buried on Nordre Cemetery in Aarhus.\n\nMeulengracht had the official honorary title of \"etatsråd\" and he received the Order of the Dannebrog and Knight of the Dannebrog. \n"}
{"id": "45613522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45613522", "title": "Lauritz Dippenaar", "text": "Lauritz Dippenaar\n\nLauritz Laurie Dippenaar is a South African self made millionaire businessman,investor & banker who is the Chairman of FirstRand financial Group. He is also well known for his philanthropic activities and runs a scholarship programme through his generous endowments.\n\nLauritz Dippenaar graduated from Pretoria University with a Master of Commerce, qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG, and spent three years with the Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa. In 1977, Dippenaar founded FirstRand's predecessor, Rand Consolidated Investing along with Paul Harris and Gerrit Ferreira.He served as executive chairman of RMB from 1992 until the formation of FirstRand in 1998. He was appointed as the first chief executive of FirstRand and held this position until the end of 2005 when he was selected as a chairman for a non-executive role in 2008.\n\nHe sponsors the Laurie Dippenaar Postgraduate Scholarship for International Study. The scholarship is awarded annually and is available to a South African citizen, for study outside South Africa in any discipline at the internationally recognized University of their choice for a Postgraduate degree. It has a value R350 000 ($37,000) per annum for a maximum of two years.\n\nDippenaar is married with three children. His hobbies include watching rugby, Canoeing and cycling.\n\nA press release dated August 27, 2014 featured that US Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) issued an order filing and settling charges against FirstRand Bank Ltd (under the chairmanship of Lauritz Laurie Dippenaar) and imposed a $150,000 civil monetary penalty for executing unlawful prearranged, non-competitive trades involving corn and soybean futures contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT), a designated contract market of the CME Group.\n"}
{"id": "20450692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20450692", "title": "Loumia Hiridjee", "text": "Loumia Hiridjee\n\nLoumia Hiridjee (1 March 1962 – 26 November 2008) was a French businesswoman and co-founder of international lingerie brand \"Princesse Tam Tam\". Hiridjee was born in Antananarivo, Madagascar, where she grew up in a family of wealthy Indian traders. In 1972 she joined her sister Sharma at a boarding school in France. In 1985 together they founded the \"Princesse Tam Tam\" brand (named after a 1935 film starring Josephine Baker). Hiridjee and her husband Mourad Amarsy were dining at the Oberoi Trident hotel in Mumbai, when they were shot and killed by armed attackers during the November 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks.\n"}
{"id": "3343853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3343853", "title": "Malaxation", "text": "Malaxation\n\nIn olive oil extraction, malaxation (Latin \"malaxare\", Greek μαλακος meaning \"soft\") is the action of slowly churning or mixing milled olives, typically for 20 to 40 minutes. The churning allows the smaller droplets of oil released by the milling process to aggregate and be more easily separated. The paste is normally heated to around 27 °C during this process. Oil yield is proportional to the temperature and mixing time. However, the use of higher temperatures and longer mixing times increases oxidation of the oil and therefore decreases shelf life, so a compromise must be struck. Also, the usage of higher temperatures does not allow for the labelling of the oil as \"cold extracted\", a term used widely as a marketing tactic, especially in the European Union.\n\nIt is now possible with newer equipment to use a blanket of inert gas such as nitrogen or carbon dioxide over the olive paste, which greatly reduces oxidation. This allows for an increased yield without compromising the quality of the oil.\n\nAfter malaxation is complete, the paste is sent to a phase separator. Nearly all producers use a decanter centrifuge for this process. Traditionally the olive oil was separated from the paste using a large press that was either screwed down or weighted with rocks.\n\n"}
{"id": "19162718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19162718", "title": "Mitsubishi Caterpillar Forklift America", "text": "Mitsubishi Caterpillar Forklift America\n\nMitsubishi Caterpillar Forklift America Inc. (\"MCFA\"), headquartered in Houston, Texas is a manufacturer and distributor of material handling equipment and parts under the Mitsubishi Forklift Trucks, Cat Lift Trucks, and Jungheinrich brand names. MCFA also owns the rights to Towmotor brand name, but does not manufacture under it. MCFA is ISO 9001-2000 certified and has obtained compliance certification from the California Air Resources Board (CARB). MCFA provides a full line of forklifts with complete sales and product support through more than 400 dealer locations throughout the United States, Canada and Latin America.\n\nThe company's . facility in Houston is located on of land and employs 1,200 workers, capable of producing over 25,000 forklifts per annum.\n\nMCFA is a subsidiary of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and one of the worldwide MCF group of companies:\n\n\nEach group, with the exception of MCFS, is responsible for design engineering, manufacturing and marketing the product lines and handling parts distribution in their respective regions.\n\nMCFA was formed through a joint venture in 1992 between two major companies, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. (MHI) and Caterpillar Industrial Inc. (CII). Jungheinrich Forklifts joined this partnership on January 1, 2010 through a manufacturing and distribution agreement with MCFA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33756713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33756713", "title": "Mojo (Moeller)", "text": "Mojo (Moeller)\n\nMojo is a public artwork, by Christian Moeller. \n\nIt is located at the Centre Street Lofts, 285 West 6th Street, at the corner of West 7th and Centre Streets, Los Angeles, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21936870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21936870", "title": "National Association of Cargo Transportation and Logistics", "text": "National Association of Cargo Transportation and Logistics\n\nThe Brazilian National Association of Cargo Transport and Logistics (pt-BR, \"Associação Nacional do Transporte de Cargas e Logística\"), NTC&Logistica, or simply NTC) is a Brazilian organisation founded in 1963 by Orlando Monteiro and based in São Paulo, with a branch in Brasilia. This association represents cargo carriers and logistical operators. From its foundation until the mid-1990s, it represented only road cargo transport companies, but later it expanded its services to other transport modals, as well as to logistical operators (stocking and storage). It is also responsible for calculating the Brazilian National Index of Transport Costs (INCT), which measures variations in costs incurred of the transport sector throughout the country. It gives a prize annually to companies for providing the best services to transport businesses (vehicles, suppliers, and others), through a satisfaction survey developed by Brazilian statistical institute Datafolha.\n"}
{"id": "18336377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18336377", "title": "Peter Grubb (mason)", "text": "Peter Grubb (mason)\n\nThe youngest of the seven sons of John Grubb and his wife Frances of Brandywine Hundred, Peter first learned the stonemasonry trade. In 1729, he built a water corn and boulting mill in Bradford, Pennsylvania. He constructed his first iron bloomery (a crude form of furnace) in 1737 at Furnace Creek, on the modern border of Lancaster and Lebanon counties.\n\nGrubb constructed a regular iron furnace, known as Hopewell on Hammer Creek near his bloomery. As he started to operate Hopewell, Peter soon located three mountains of magnetic iron ore just west of the furnace. He decided to mine the ore and by 1739 had acquired over that he called Cornwall Iron Mines, in honor of his father's birthplace. In 1742, he opened Cornwall Iron Furnace to take advantage of the discovery. Peter Grubb's Hopewell Forge Mansion, completed around 1740 and later occupied by his son Peter Jr., still stands about six miles (10 km) from Cornwall on present-day Route 322.\n\nIn 1745 Peter decided to relinquish direct control of the ironworks, and he leased the operation to Cury and Company for 20 years at £250 a year. He moved with his wife to Wilmington, Delaware, where he engaged in the buying and selling of real estate and lived out his life.\n\nPeter's sons Curtis and Peter Jr. inherited the ironworks after his death in 1754. They took over operation around 1765, after the lease expired, and quickly expanded the business, later becoming significant providers of munitions to the Revolutionary War effort. Unfortunately, most of the Cornwall ironworks fell out of the Grubb family's hands by 1802. But later generations, starting with Peter Jr.'s son Henry Bates Grubb, built on the remaining holdings with great success. From 1840 to 1870 the Grubbs were among the leading iron manufacturers in Pennsylvania, with Mount Hope Estate serving as their center of operations.\n\nOn 2nd mo. 12, 1732 at Caln Meeting, Peter Grubb married Martha Bates (or Bate), widow of James Wall. Martha Bates, a native of Newton Township, New Jersey, was the daughter of Jeremiah Bates and Mary Spicer, and the granddaughter of William Bates, a founder of Newton Colony in 1681. Peter and Martha Grubb had two sons, Curtis Grubb (circa 1733 - 1789) and Peter Grubb, Jr. (1740–1786). After Martha died, Peter remarried on 12th mo. 10, 1741 to Hannah Mendenhall, widow of Thomas Marshall. In 1745, Peter and Hannah Grubb retired to Wilmington, Delaware, where he engaged in the buying and selling of real estate.\n\n"}
{"id": "2758154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2758154", "title": "Philip Kotler", "text": "Philip Kotler\n\nPhilip Kotler (born May 27, 1931) is an American marketing author, consultant, and professor; currently the S. C. Johnson Distinguished Professor of International Marketing at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. He is the author of over 60 marketing books, including \"Marketing Management\", \"Principles of Marketing\", \"Kotler on Marketing\", \"Marketing Insights from A to Z\", \"Marketing 4.0\", \"Marketing Places\", \"Marketing of Nations\", \"Chaotics, Market Your Way to Growth, Winning Global Markets, Strategic Marketing for Health Care Organizations, Social Marketing, Up and Out of Poverty,\" and \"Winning at Innovation.\" Kotler describes strategic marketing as serving as \"the link between society's needs and its pattern of industrial response.\"\n\nKotler helped create the field of social marketing that focuses on helping individuals and groups modify their behaviors toward healthier and safer living styles.\n\nKotler's latest work focuses on economic justice and the shortcomings of capitalism. He published \"Confronting Capitalism: Real Solutions for a Troubled Economic System\" in 2015, \"Democracy in Decline: Rebuilding its Future\" in 2016, and \"Brand Activism: From Purpose to Action\" in 2018.\n\nBoth of Kotler's parents, Betty and Maurice, emigrated in 1917 from Russian Empire (currently territory of Ukraine) and settled in Chicago, where Kotler was born on May 27, 1931. He studied at DePaul University for two years and was accepted without a bachelor's degree into the Master's program at the University of Chicago (1953) and his PhD at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (1956), earning both degrees in economics. He studied under three Nobel Laureates in Economic Science: Milton Friedman, Paul Samuelson, and Robert Solow. He did a year of postdoctoral work in mathematics at Harvard University and in behavioral science at the University of Chicago.\n\nKotler started teaching marketing in 1962 at the Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University. He believed marketing was an essential part of economics and saw demand as influenced not only by price but also by advertising, sales promotions, sales forces, direct mail, and various middlemen (agents, retailers, wholesalers, etc.) operating as sales and distribution channels.\n\nPhilip Kotler holds that: \n\"the organization's marketing task is to determine the needs, wants and interests of target markets and to achieve the desired results more effectively and efficiently than competitors, in a way that preserves or enhances the consumer's or society's well-being.\" \n\nHe links the profit motive to the satisfaction of consumer wants and society's well-being. In order to market effectively, Kotler believes the marketing purpose of elevating consumer well-being has to be put at the heart of company strategy and be practiced by all managers.\n\nIn 2003, the \"Financial Times\" cited Kotler's three major contributions to marketing and to management:\n\nFirst, he has done more than any other writer or scholar to promote the importance of marketing, transforming it from a peripheral activity, bolted on to the more \"important\" work of production. Second, he continued a trend started by Peter Drucker, shifting emphasis away from price and distribution to a greater focus on meeting customers' needs and on the benefits received from a product or service. Third, he has broadened the concept of marketing from mere selling to a more general process of communication and exchange, and has shown how marketing can be extended and applied to charities, arts organizations, political parties and many other non-commercial situations.\n\nKotler argued for broadening the field of marketing to cover not only commercial operations but also the operations of non-profit organizations and government agencies. He held that marketing can be applied not only to products, services, and experiences, but also to causes, ideas, persons, and places. Thus a museum needs the marketing skills of Product, Price, Place, and Promotion (the 4P's) if it is to be successful in attracting visitors, donors, staff members, and public support. Kotler and Gerald Zaltman created the field of social marketing, which applies marketing theory to influence behavior change that would benefit consumers, their peers, and society as a whole. Kotler and Sidney Levy developed the idea of demarketing, which organizations must employ to reduce overall or selective demand when demand is too high. Thus, when water is in short supply, the government needs to persuade various water consumers to reduce water usage so that enough water will be available for essential uses.\n\nIn 1967, Kotler published \"Marketing Management: Analysis, Planning, and Control\", now in its 15th edition, and the world's most widely adopted textbook in graduate schools of business. Whereas previous marketing textbooks were highly descriptive, this text was the first to draw on economic science, organizational theory, psychology of behavior and choice, and analytics. It described theory and practice, and drew on findings from empirical studies and cases. On December 9, 1996, the \"Financial Times\" cited \"Marketing Management\" as one of the 50 greatest business books of all time.\n\nKotler is the author and co-author of over 150 published articles and 60 books, , \n\nKotler has also written books on such subjects as corporate social responsibility, education, environment, government marketing, healthcare, hospitality, innovation, museums, performing arts, place marketing, poverty alleviation, professional services, religious institutions, tourism, capitalism, and democracy.\n\nKotler was invited to be the first Legend in Marketing. His published articles are presented, analyzed, and commented on in the nine-volume \"Legends in Marketing Series: Philip Kotler\", edited by Professor Jagdish Sheth.\n\nIn 2014, he started a blog on fixcapitalism.com that featured many articles on making capitalism work better for more people.\n\nIn 2016, he became an advisor to \"The Marketing Journal\", an online site dedicated to sharing insights and next practices in marketing.\n\nIn 2017, Kotler published his autobiography - \"My Adventures in Marketing\", an account of his experiences from his formative years to the present, including his views on topics such as demarketing, brand activism, marketing of the arts, place marketing, as well as the challenges facing capitalism and democracy.\n\nIn 1975, Kotler was the first person to receive the \"Leader in Marketing Thought\" award voted on by the academic members of the American Marketing Association.\n\nThe \"Financial Times\" on November 18, 2005 surveyed 1,000 executives in 25 countries about the Most Influential Business Writers/Management Gurus, and Kotler ranked fourth after Peter Drucker, Bill Gates, and Jack Welch. Kotler's contributions are described in at least one chapter found in every book written about the \"gurus\" of business and management (see References below).\n\nOn February 16, 2013, he was the first recipient of the William L. Wilkie \"Marketing for a Better World\" award from the American Marketing Association to \"honor marketers who have significantly contributed to the understanding and appreciation for marketing's potential to improve the world.\" Also, in 2013 he was the first recipient of the Sheth Foundation Medal for Exceptional Contribution to Marketing Scholarship and Practice.\n\nOn November 7, 2013, Kotler received the Badge of Honor of Officer of the Order of Academic Palms established in France in the 19th Century.\n\nOn November 19, 2013, Kotler was inducted into the Management Hall of Fame, along with 10 other management gurus(see www.thinkers50.com/hall-of-fame/.\n\nOn March 1, 2014, Kotler is number 16 in the list of the 30 World's Top Management Professionals and the only marketer.\n\non May 28, 2014, Kotler is inducted in the Marketing Hall of Fame in New York City.\n\nOn April 23, 2016, Kotler received the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Leaders International at the 6th Global Leadership Awards.\nKotler is also the founder of the World Marketing Summit, whose annual international conferences are dedicated to finding ways to improve marketing, human conditions and the quality of life. He also co-established the world's first Museum of Marketing (3.0) in Ubud, Bali, Indonesia.. \n\nKotler has received 20 honorary degrees from around the world, (at Academy of Economic Studies in Bucharest, Athens School of Economics, BI Norwegian School of Management, Budapest School of Economic Science and Public Administration, Catholic University Santo Domingo, DePaul University, Cracow School of Economics, Groupe HEC, HHL Graduate School of Management, Iliria University, Mackenzin University, Mediterranean University, National University of Kyiv Mohyla Academy, Nyenrode Business University, Plekhanov Russian Academy of Economics, Universidad Americana, Universidad del Pacifico, University American College, University of Bucharest, University of Stockholm, and University of Zurich)\n\nPhilip has two brothers, Milton and Neil. Philip met Nancy Kellum at Radcliffe (Harvard) and they married in 1955. They have three daughters, Amy, Melissa and Jessica and nine grandchildren.\n\n\"Guru\" books that contain a complete chapter on Professor Kotler's contributions include such titles as:\n\nMore references:\nhttp://www.kellogg.northwestern.edu/faculty/directory/kotler_philip.aspx#research\n\n\n"}
{"id": "704238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=704238", "title": "Priority right", "text": "Priority right\n\nIn patent, industrial design rights and trademark laws, a priority right or right of priority is a time-limited right, triggered by the first filing of an application for a patent, an industrial design or a trademark respectively. The priority right allows the claimant to file a subsequent application in another country for the same invention, design, or trademark effective as of the date of filing the first application. When filing the subsequent application, the applicant must claim the priority of the first application in order to make use of the right of priority. The right of priority belongs to the applicant or his \"successor in title\".\n\nThe period of priority, i.e., the period during which the priority right exists, is usually 6 months for industrial designs and trademarks and 12 months for patents and utility models. The period of priority is often referred to as the priority year for patents and utility models.\n\nIn patent law, when a priority is validly claimed, the date of filing of the first application, called the priority date, is considered to be the effective date of filing for the examination of novelty and inventive step or non-obviousness for the subsequent application claiming the priority of the first application. In other words, the prior art which is taken into account for examining the novelty and inventive step or non-obviousness of the invention claimed in the subsequent application would not be everything made available to the public before the filing date (of the subsequent application) but everything made available to the public before the priority date, i.e. the date of filing of the first application.\n\nThe \"basic purpose [of the right of priority] is to safeguard, for a limited period, the interests of a patent applicant in his endeavour to obtain international protection for his invention, thereby alleviating the negative consequences of the principle of territoriality in patent law.\"\n\nThe \"Paris Convention priority right\", also called \"Convention priority right\" or \"Union priority right\", is a \"priority right\" under a multilateral arrangement, defined by Article 4 of the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property of 1883. The Convention priority right is probably the most widely known priority right. It is defined by its Article 4 A.(1):\n\nArticle 4 B. of the Paris Convention describes the effects of the priority right:\n\nArticle 2 paragraph 1 of the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs Agreement) in conjunction with the Paris Convention provides a \"derived\" Convention priority right. That is, while WTO members need not ratify the Paris Convention, they should however comply with Articles 1 through 12, and Article 19, of the Paris Convention. (For a comparative list of the States party to the Paris Convention and the members of the WTO, see for instance \"States Party to PCT/Paris/WTO]\" on the WIPO web site).\n\nSome priority rights are defined by a multilateral convention such as the European Patent Convention (EPC) or the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT). The Paris Convention does not cover priorities claimed in a European patent application or in an international application (or PCT application), as the EPC and the PCT have their own legal provisions regarding priority.\n\n defines the priority right system under the EPC or more precisely recognise priority rights for first filings in or for States party to the Paris Convention or any Member of the World Trade Organization (WTO):\n\nAs explained by the Enlarged Board of Appeal of the European Patent Office (EPO) in its decision G 3/93 of August 16, 1994 (Reasons 4):\n\nRegarding the critical question \"What is 'the same invention'?\" in , opinion G 2/98 prescribes a photographic approach to the assessment of priority. According to Enlarged Board of Appeal opinion G 2/98, the requirement for claiming priority of \"the same invention\" means that priority of a previous application in respect of a claim in a European patent application is to be acknowledged only if the skilled person can derive the subject-matter of the claim directly and unambiguously, using common general knowledge, from the previous application as a whole.\n\nThe Patent Cooperation Treaty, in its Article 8(1), provides the possibility of claiming a right of priority for the filing of an international application (PCT application):\nHowever, Rule 4.10(a) as amended with effect from January 1, 2000 does not apply to all designated Offices. For instance, for the European Patent Office as designated Office, the old Rule 4.10(a) still applied until December 12, 2007, that is, rights of priority of first applications made in a WTO member not party to the Paris Convention were not recognised. Now and more specifically for European patent applications filed on or after December 13, 2007 (the entry into force of the new version of the European Patent Convention, the so-called EPC 2000), the rights of priority of first applications made in a WTO member are recognized under the European Patent Convention.\n\nSome priority rights, called \"internal priority rights\", are defined by some national laws. Such internal priority right allows an applicant who filed a first application in a given country to claim the priority of the first application when filing a subsequent application in the same country. The Paris Convention does not cover internal priority rights. \"See, e.g., provisional application in the US.\"\n\nSome priority rights also exist on the basis of bilateral agreements. A bilateral agreement between a first and a second country may allow an applicant who filed an application in the first country to claim the priority of the first application when filing a second application in the second country. These kinds of bilateral agreements usually involve at least one country not party to the Paris Convention.\n\nAn example may help to understand the legal concept of priority right. The example presented here illustrates the case of the priority right in patent law, but the example could be extended to trademarks, taking into account the difference of priority period (12 months for patents, 6 months for trademarks).\nLet us imagine the following scenario. Ms. A has invented an improved mousetrap and decides to apply for a patent on her mousetrap. She first files a German patent application on July 15, 2006. Starting from July 16, 2006, Ms. A has then one year to file patent applications in other countries to be able to benefit from the date of filing of the German patent application in these other countries. If Ms. A files on July 15, 2007 a patent application in the United Kingdom (UK) for her mousetrap, and if, upon filing the patent application in the United Kingdom, Ms. A claims the priority of the earliest German patent application filed one year before, the date for examining the novelty and inventive step requirements in the United Kingdom will be July 15, 2006, not July 15, 2007.\n\nThis means that any disclosure to the public of the improved mousetrap on or after July 15, 2006 (by Ms. A or anyone else) will not prejudice Ms. A's patent application in the United Kingdom. If Mr. B independently invents around January 2007 the same improved mousetrap and decides to directly publish in February 2007 a paper explaining how his new mousetrap works, the publication of the paper by Mr. B will not affect the novelty of Ms. A's patent application in the United Kingdom, even though the publication of Mr. B's paper takes place before the actual date of filing of Ms. A's UK patent application.\n\nThe priority system, including this one-year priority right, enables Ms. A to file a patent application as soon as possible in one country (in this case in Germany, and in the German language), and gives her one-year to do whatever is necessary to file patent applications in other countries (translating the text of the application, filling the application forms, sending the translated application and forms to the foreign patent offices, collecting the funds to pay the filing fees, and so on) without being affected by any intervening publication. The actual date of filing in the United Kingdom remains July 15, 2007, and this is the date from which the 20-year duration of any ensuing patent is calculated. The example also applies to many other countries, such as to all countries which are party to the Paris Convention.\n\nThe extent to which a partial priority can be acknowledged for a single claim in a patent application -i.e., only for a part of the claim, for which the subject-matter is disclosed in the priority document- is a delicate question.\n\n"}
{"id": "18517141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18517141", "title": "Restrictive Practices Court", "text": "Restrictive Practices Court\n\nThe Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1956 was an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom intended to enforce competition. It required that any agreement between companies that restricted trading should be placed on a public register unless granted exemption by the Secretary of State. Changes to an agreement, including its ending, were required to be notified and no agreement could be brought into force before appearing on the register.\n\nThe registrar could refer any agreements which appeared to operate against the public interest to the Restrictive Practices Court, a senior court of record in the United Kingdom. Though the Court was overhauled in 1976, by the end of the century, the legislation was perceived as increasingly out of line with Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty of Rome. The Court was gradually replaced by a new judicial regime under the Competition Act 1998 and Enterprise Act 2002 and was ultimately disestablished on 10 March 2013.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "8783878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8783878", "title": "Strategic assumption surfacing and testing", "text": "Strategic assumption surfacing and testing\n\nStrategic assumptions surfacing and testing (SAST) is a method for approaching ill-structured problems. It can be applied as a dialectical approach to policy and planning.\n\nAn ill-structured problem may alternatively be also labelled as a wicked problem. SAST may be applied as a technique of systems thinking.\n\nAn ill-structured problem is \"one for which various strategies for providing a possible solution rest on assumptions that are in sharp conflict with one another\". The purposes for an SAST method are:\n\nFour stages in the method include:\n\n\nThe method originated through the collaboration between Richard O. Mason and Ian Mitroff, as an extension of the philosophy on the design of inquiring systems originating from C. West Churchman. SAST follows the prescriptions of \"dialectic inquiry\", sweeping in multiple perspective onto the full breadth of underlying assumptions to collaborative problem solving and strategic design.\n\nMitroff, I. I., and J. R. Emshoff. 1979. “On Strategic Assumption-making: A Dialectical Approach to Policy and Planning.” \"Academy of Management Review\": 1–12. https://www.jstor.org/stable/257398\n\nMason, R.O., and Mitroff, I.I., 1981; \"Challenging Strategic Planning Assumptions:Theory,Cases and Techniques\", NY, Wiley, \n\nMitroff, Ian I., and Richard O. Mason. 1981. \"Creating a Dialectical Social Science: Concepts, Methods, and Models\". D. Reidel. https://books.google.com/books?id=cKJ8AAAAIAAJ.\n\nMason, Richard O., and Ian I. Mitroff. 1981. \"Challenging Strategic Planning Assumptions: Theory, Cases, and Techniques\". Wiley. https://books.google.com/books?id=EmaQAAAAIAAJ.\n"}
{"id": "53368392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53368392", "title": "Tengku Putra", "text": "Tengku Putra\n\nDato' Setia Tengku Putra ibni Tengku Bendahara Azman Shah (born 22 July 1951) is a Malaysian corporate figure and a member of the Selangor Royal Family and Kelantan Royal Family. He is the first son of \"Tengku Bendahara\" Tengku Azman Shah ibni Al-Marhum Sultan Hisamuddin Alam Shah and the cousin of the current Sultan, Sultan Sharafuddin Idris Shah. He is currently holding the position as Selangor Palace Major Chief (\"Orang Besar Istana\") and been re-appointed as a royal council members on 11 December 2016 as one of the member in advisory body to the Sultan of Selangor\nTengku Dato' Setia Putra Alhaj was born on 22 July 1951 in Kota Bahru, (Kelantan) the State Capital of Kelantan at that time. He is the first child of the \"Tengku Bendahara\" Tengku Azman Shah (Been appointed as of Selangor since 13 May 1959) and Tengku Thuraya Puteri (\" Tengku Puan Bendahara of Selangor\"), a Princess of Kelantan. His uncle became the Sultan of Selangor on 1 September 1960, after the death of his grandfather Almarhum Sultan Hisamudin Alam Shah Alhaj.\nTengku Dato' Setia Putra Alhaj was a Navy Aide-de-Camp (A.D.C.) and personal assistant to his uncle Sultan Salahuddin Abdul Aziz Shah Alhaj and 2nd Yang di-Pertuan Agong of Malaysia before joining cooperate business.\n\nTengku Dato' Setia Putra Alhaj has extensive interest in Civil and Building Construction, Property Development, Design and Manufacturing Specialist Vehicles such as Fire Engine and Ambulance. Under his leadership, he and his partner companies had successfully completed several Privatize and Joint Venture development projects with the State governments of Selangor and Johor. One of the well known achievement is the development of a premier resort cum resident and USGA class championship Golf Course Kelab Golf Sultan Abdul Aziz Shah in Shah Alam, Malaysia. Furthermore, he had been appointed as the chairman for Selangor Royal Galley, Sultan Abdul Aziz Royal Gallery to preserve the royal culture for his ancestors.\n\nTaman Tengku Bendahara Azman, located in Klang, Selangor and Two school, and that named after his late father Tengku Bendahara Tengku Azman Shah had now been chaired by him\nafter his father passed away on 23 March 2014\n\n12 December 2015 – Present: \nEnglish: (\"His Highness\") Tengku Dato' Setia Putra Alhaj, The \"Tengku Indera Pahlawan Diraja of Selangor\"\nMalay: (\"Yang Amat Dihormati\") Tengku Dato' Setia Putra Alhaj, \"Tengku Indera Pahlawan Diraja of Selangor\"\n\nOn 7 September 1985, the late Sultan of Selangor, Sultan Salahuddin Abdul Aziz Shah Alhaj had awarded Tengku Putra Alhaj The Order of Sultan Salahuddin Abdul Aziz Shah Setia Sultan Salahuddin Abdul Aziz Shah (S.S.A.) with carried the title \"SETIA\" for his loyalty to the state. On 3 April 1993, the late Sultan of Selangor, Sultan Salahuddin Abdul Aziz Shah Alhaj had awarded Tengku Putra Alhaj The Order of Sultan Salahuddin Abdul Aziz Shah Dato' Sultan Salahuddin Abdul Aziz Shah(D.S.S.A) with carried the title \"DATO\". On 1 December 2004, the current Sultan of Selangor, Sultan Sharafuddin Idris Shah Alhaj had conferred upon Tengku Dato' Setia Putra Alhaj the title \"Orang Besar Istana\" (Palace Major Chief) with carried the title \"Tengku Indera Pahlawan Diraja\" for the state of Selangor. On the 1st of 2007, the current Sultan of Selangor, Sultan Sharafuddin Idris Shah had promote and appointed Tengku Dato' Setia Putra Alhaj to be a member to the \"\" (A Council of the Royal Court). On 30 March 2009, Sultan of Kelantan, Sultan Ismail Petra had awarded Tengku Putra Alhaj Order of the Life of the Crown of Kelantan Dato’ Paduka Jiwa Mahkota Kelantan with carried the title \"DATO\". On 12 December 2015, the current Sultan of Selangor, Sultan Sharafuddin Idris Shah had awarded Tengku Putra Alhaj Order of Sultan Sharafuddin Idris Shah Dato’ Sri Setia Sultan Sharafuddin Idris Shah with carried the title \"DATO SETIA\"\n\nHonours that he been awarded :\n\n"}
{"id": "26370428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26370428", "title": "Teremoana Tapi Taio", "text": "Teremoana Tapi Taio\n\nTeremoana Tapi Taio is a Cook Islands politician and former Cabinet Minister. He is a member of the Cook Islands Democratic Party.\n\nTaio was elected to the Cook Islands Parliament for the electorate of Akaoa at the 1999 election. He served in the cabinet of Robert Woonton, and was responsible for the Finance portfolio following the resignation of Deputy Prime Minister Terepai Maoate from the Cabinet in 2003. He lost his seat at the 2004 election, and did not contest it in 2006 for family reasons.\n\nTaio is managing director of Taio Shipping. He was appointed a director of the Cook Islands Investment Corporation in 2003. He is partly of Norwegian descent.\n\nIn September 2010 he resigned from the Cook Islands Investment Corporation board in order to stand for election. He ran for the seat of Akaoa in the 2010 elections, but was unsuccessful.\n"}
{"id": "31077674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31077674", "title": "Thore Boye", "text": "Thore Boye\n\nThore Albert Boye (27 October 1912 – 1 October 1999) was a Norwegian diplomat.\n\nHe was born in Kristiania as a son of Supreme Court Justice Thorvald Boye (1871–1943) and Mia Esmarch (1880–1966). In 1945 he married Nøste Siem (1918–1999), a daughter of Ole Siem and sister of Martin Siem.\n\nHe took the cand.jur. degree in 1936, and was an attorney and deputy judge in Tromsø before being hired in the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1938. After the Second World War reached Norway on 9 April 1940, and the government fled the capital, Boye set out on skis to catch up with them. After doing so he acted as a courier to Stockholm, returned to Molde where he followed the flight of the Norwegian National Treasury to Tromsø. From Tromsø, he left the country together with the government and royal family. They reached London, where Boye became a secretary in the Ministry of Finance-in-exile; from 1941 the Ministry of Defence-in-exile. He was promoted to assistant secretary in 1942. From 1944 he participated in the rebuilding after the liberation of Northern Norway, and in the spring of 1945 he was a secretary for the provisional government in Oslo, awaiting the return of the real government from exile after the war.\n\nHe was a legation concellor in Belgium from 1946 to 1948, assistant secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from 1948 to 1949, secretary-general for the Northern European group in NATO from 1949 to 1951. He was promoted to sub-director in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1951 and deputy under-secretary of state in 1953. From 1955 to 1961 he worked as vice chief executive in the SAS Group, and he served as the Norwegian ambassador to Italy from 1961 to 1965. From 1962 he doubled as the ambassador to Greece. He was then the permanent under-secretary of state (the highest-ranking civil position) in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from 1965 to 1971, then the Norwegian ambassador to Spain from 1972 to 1977 and Sweden from 1977 to 1981.\n\nHe was decorated as a Commander with Star of the Order of St. Olav in 1969.\n"}
{"id": "1548928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1548928", "title": "Truth in Lending Act", "text": "Truth in Lending Act\n\nThe Truth in Lending Act (TILA) of 1968 is a United States federal law designed to promote the informed use of consumer credit, by requiring disclosures about its terms and cost to standardize the manner in which costs associated with borrowing are calculated and disclosed.\n\nTILA also gives consumers the right to cancel certain credit transactions that involve a lien on a consumer's principal dwelling, regulates certain credit card practices, and provides a means for fair and timely resolution of credit billing disputes. With the exception of certain high-cost mortgage loans, TILA does not regulate the charges that may be imposed for consumer credit. Rather, it requires uniform or standardized disclosure of costs and charges so that consumers can shop. It also imposes limitations on home equity plans that are subject to the requirements of and certain \"higher-priced\" mortgage loans (HPMLs) that are subject to the requirements of . The regulation prohibits certain acts or practices in connection with credit secured by a consumer's principal dwelling.\n\nThe Truth in Lending Act was originally Title I of the Consumer Credit Protection Act, . The regulations implementing the statute, which are known as \"Regulation Z\", are codified at . Most of the specific requirements imposed by TILA are found in Regulation Z, so a reference to the requirements of TILA usually refers to the requirements contained in Regulation Z, as well as the statute itself.\n\nFrom TILA's inception, the authority to implement the statute by issuing regulations was given to the Federal Reserve Board (FRB). However, effective July 21, 2011, TILA's general rule making authority was transferred to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), whose authority was established pursuant to provisions enacted by the passage of the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in July 2010. Any forthcoming regulations implementing the statute, which are also formally referred to as Regulation Z, will be codified at and attempt to mirror the FRB's Regulation Z whenever feasible. The Federal Reserve will retain some limited rule making authority under TILA for loans made by certain motor vehicle dealers, and for certain other provisions.\n\nThe TILA introduced the Annual Percentage Rate (APR) calculation mandated for all consumer lenders. Certain misleading interest rate calculations used previously, mainly on auto loans, were barred. For more than a decade, consumer loans were reported by APR in an economically meaningful way. Then in the 1980s the auto manufacturers began to exploit a loophole in TILA and its administration. Neither the Act nor its administrators adequately differentiated between \"amount financed\" and \"finance charges,\" two terms that appear on the TILA required disclosure statements. By \"bundling\" the price of the car and its financing charges (which come from the auto maker's captive finance company), auto makers were able to shift money between the two categories, even to eliminating the financing charge entirely. Thus \"zero percent APR\" financing was born.\n\nTypical offers from auto companies are \"Zero Percent APR financing available or $1,000 rebate.\" The consumer who elects \"zero percent\" financing gives up a $1,000 rebate (reduction in car price). Effectively, he or she pays $1,000 to get the \"interest free\" loan. Since only auto makers can do this type of bundling, banks, credit unions and other competitors are left at a disadvantage. They must disclose true APR rates while the auto makers can claim no interest costs. In the process, the typical consumer is left with a complex finance problem. \"Zero percent\" financing can cost a lot less, or a lot more than conventional financing with a non-auto maker institution.\n\nThe regulation is divided into subparts.\n\nSubpart B relates to open-end credit lines (revolving credit accounts), which includes credit card accounts and home-equity lines of credit (HELOCs).\n\nSubpart C relates to closed-end credit, such as home-purchase loans and motor vehicle loans with a fixed loan term. It contains rules on disclosures, treatment of credit balances, annual percentage rate calculations, right of rescission,non requirements, and advertising.\n\nSubpart D contains rules on oral disclosures, Spanish language disclosure in Puerto Rico, record retention, effect on state laws, state exemptions (which only apply to states that had Truth in Lending-type laws prior to the Federal Act), and rate limitations.\n\nSubpart E contains special rules for mortgage transactions.\n\nSeveral appendices contain information such as the procedures for determinations about state laws, state exemptions and issuance of staff interpretations, special rules for certain kinds of credit plans, a list of enforcement agencies, model disclosures which if used properly will ensure compliance with the Act, and the rules for computing annual percentage rates in closed-end credit transactions and total annual loan cost rates for reverse mortgage transactions.\n\nFor certain transactions secured by a borrower's principle dwelling, TILA requires that the borrower be granted three business days following loan consummation to rescind the transaction. The right of rescission allows borrowers time to reexamine the credit agreement and cost disclosures, as well as to reconsider whether they want to place their homes at risk by offering it as security for the credit. Each borrower and any person who has a vested interest in the property may exercise the right to rescind until midnight of the third business day following consummation, or delivery of all material disclosures, whichever occurs last. If the required rescission notice or material TILA disclosures are inaccurate or not delivered, the borrowers right to rescind may be extended from three days after consummation to up to three years.\n\nWhen a borrower rescinds, the security interest becomes void and the borrower is not liable for any amount, including finance charges. The bank must return any money or property given to anyone in connection with the transaction within 20 calendar days and remove any record of security interest that the bank may have taken for the new loan. Until the rescission period has ended, the bank may not 1) disperse funds other than to a valid escrow account, 2) perform any services, or 3) deliver any materials.\n\nThe right of rescission does not apply to loans that are obtained for the purpose of purchasing a home, nor does it apply to a refinance or consolidation of a home loan with the same creditor unless the amount refinanced or consolidated exceeds the unpaid balance on the existing debt.\n\nTILA requirements do not apply to the following types of loans or credit:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21091628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21091628", "title": "Ulf G. Lindén", "text": "Ulf G. Lindén\n\nUlf Gösta Lindén (13 December 1937 – 3 January 2009) was a Swedish entrepreneur, owner and president of the Lindén group. \nThe Lindén group is the majority owner of Becker.\n\nUlf G. Lindén was the CEO of Swedish chemical group Beckers when he was hired by Volvo in 1979. Then, Volvo was the largest corporation in Sweden. Due to his tough management style, Lindén was nicknamed \"Pehr G. Gyllenhammar's hitman\", especially after his role in turning down Volvo's merger with chemical group Fermenta. Lindén retired from Volvo in 1987 to focus on the Lindén group.\n"}
{"id": "31552279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31552279", "title": "United States Green Chamber of Commerce", "text": "United States Green Chamber of Commerce\n\nThe United States Green Chamber of Commerce (USGCC) is a national networking organization for businesses and community organizations that emphasize green and sustainable business practices. It asserts that sustainable business practices \"spur innovation, job creation, energy efficiency and an overall brighter economic future through the triple bottom line: economic, environmental, and social sustainability.\" \n\nThe USGCC was launched in 2011 as a nationwide expansion of the Green Chamber of San Diego County, co-founded by David Steel and Peter Zahn in 2009. \n\nThe USGCC has created strategic alliances with like-minded groups such as E2 (Environmental Entrepreneurs, Entrepreneurs' Organization), chambers and workforce partnerships to further its purpose of advancing best practices related to corporate sustainability and social responsibility. \n\nProminent members include Toyota, Kimpton Hotels, Northwestern Mutual, and Union Bank.\n\nCEO Michelle Thatcher and Board of Directors chair Jim Bunch presently lead the US Green Chamber of Commerce, which has expanded into several US states including Maryland, Missouri, Florida, Iowa, Massachusetts, and New York. \n\nBunch is a business and life coach who has worked with Xerox, Pitney Bowes, Frito Lay, Century 21, ReMax, and Prudential. Thatcher formerly served as executive director of the Association of Florida Conservation Districts. She also serves on the advisory board of the International Green Energy Council and the World Brand Congress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51423675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51423675", "title": "VRTO", "text": "VRTO\n\nStarted in 2015, as a Virtual Reality Meetup Group in Toronto, VRTO launched the VRTO Virtual & Augmented Reality World Conference & Expo in June 2016 - an international exhibition and professional conference exploring arts, culture and science through immersive technologies. Its inaugural year - held at the Mattamy Centre (better known as Maple Leaf Gardens in Toronto, Canada - featured keynotes from University of Toronto Professor Steve Mann, Hollywood film director Brett Leonard - director of The Lawnmower Man, Chief Digital Officer Ana Serrano of the Canadian Film Centre and Phil Lelyveld of USC.\n\nFounded and directed by producer, futurist, musician and Hollywood actor Keram Malicki-Sanchez, the opening year featured a keynote, town hall and discussion panel around creating a Code of Ethics for Humanistic Augmentation VRTO Spearheads Code of Ethics on Human Augmentation also known as the HACode or The Toronto Code.\n\nThe conference, in its inaugural year welcomed 800 attendees and 64 speakers from Toronto, Montreal and Los Angeles, and featured over 20 companies working in the development of virtual reality, augmented reality and mixed reality in addition to training sessions dedicated to the creation of 360 video, game development, photogrammetry and WebVR. The conference featured a preview of the FIVARS Festival of International Virtual & Augmented Reality Stories.\n\nThe conference featured a workshop titled The Hacker's Guide to the Metaverse that taught programming WebVR using the JanusVR open source platform.\n\nThe largest conference dedicated on virtual and augmented reality in Canada, the sophomore year featured 100 speakers and 60 installations. The second year of the VRTO Conference & Expo in 2017 was staged at the Rogers Communications Centre on the Ryerson University campus in downtown Toronto June 24th-26th with the theme of \"Giants\" based on the quote by Sir Isaac Newton: \"“If I have seen further than others, it is by standing upon the shoulders of Giants.” \n\nKeynote speakers included Stanford neuroscientist Professor Walter Greenleaf, PhD, Graham Smith, David A. Smith, Dr. Sara Diamond - President of OCAD University, Moses Znaimer, Charlie Fink, Dr. Karan Singh and James McCrae - founders of JanusVR and additional live interviews with Steve Mann, and Tim Merel among others.\n\nSeveral panels, under the banner of \"Super Sessions\" featured leaders in the field of Virtual & Augmented Reality, health sciences (Dr. Lora Appel, Dr. Tom Overly, Dr. Stephane Bouchard), \"Out-of-Home\" entertainment (James Jensen of THE VOID, Eyal Kleiner of IMAX, Ed Callway of AMD). \n\nThe show was also the launchpad for various products and initiatives including the Canadian Film Centre's Pulse on VR \"living ecosystem\" report on the Virtual Reality industry, the Webmoti camera that mitigates social anxiety for children with autism who wish to participate in the classroom, and the Somato Cherry haptic wireless virtual reality controller.\n\nThemed pavilions were co-curated between Malicki-Sanchez and specialists in their respective fields including Dr. Maria Karam (somatosensory pavilion), Ian Kelso (Augmented Reality conference track, Isaac Rayment (Augmented Reality \"ARt Gallery\") that featured early Augmented Reality artists Zenka, Daniel Leighton, Alex Mayhew, Dan Goldman, among others.\n\nVRTO 2018 shifted its lens to psychedelia, esoterica, philosophy and phenomenology and how they relate to experiential design, blockchain and Visual Effects featuring such speakers as Steve \"Spaz\" Williams, Philip Rosedale, and Brett Leonard, alongside 85 other leaders of the VR industry. In its third year, the event added an extra day of conferences, workshops and training.\n"}
{"id": "43098902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43098902", "title": "Verne Harnish", "text": "Verne Harnish\n\nVerne C. Harnish is founder of the Young Entrepreneurs' Organization (YEO), now known as Entrepreneurs' Organization, and the Association of Collegiate Entrepreneurs. He also serves as co-founder and Principal of Gazelles Growth Institute and as founder and Chief Executive Officer of Gazelles, Inc. He chairs the \"Birthing of Giants\" leadership program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the MIT/WEO Advanced Business Program for entrepreneurs over 40.\n\nHarnish received a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering and an M.B.A. from Wichita State University, where he founded and chaired the Association of Collegiate Entrepreneurs.\n\nHarnish is an author, often writing as the \"Growth Guy\" columnist for several publications.\n\nIn 2002, he published \"Mastering the Rockefeller Habits\". He created the \"Rockefeller Habits\" concept based on the leadership and management practices used by John D. Rockefeller. In the book, Harnish outlined three \"pillars\" to the habits: \"Priorities\", \"Data\" and \"Rhythm\". He recommends the practice of holding \"huddles\", or short daily meetings, in order for small business to maintain focus on strategic goals and establish accountability.\n\nHis newest book is \"Scaling Up: How a Few Companies Make It...and Why the Rest Don't\", which received several awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24146311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24146311", "title": "Violet Bidwill Wolfner", "text": "Violet Bidwill Wolfner\n\nViolet Fults Bidwill Wolfner (January 10, 1902 – January 29, 1962) was the owner of the Chicago / St. Louis Cardinals of the National Football League (NFL) for over 14 years, from 1947 until her death in early 1962. She inherited the team in April 1947, following the death of her husband Charles Bidwill, Sr., who purchased the team in 1933. She was the first woman to become principal owner of an NFL team.\n\nWolfner was born Violet Fults in Red Bud, Illinois, the daughter of Alonzo Fults, of German and Irish descent, and Mary Ann \"Mamie\" Vogel, of German descent. She had an older sister, Imelda. Her father died in 1906 and her mother worked as a waitress.\n\nHer first season as owner saw the Cardinals, led by the \"Dream Backfield\" of Paul Christman, Pat Harder, Marshall Goldberg, and Charley Trippi, defeat the Philadelphia Eagles for the franchise's first undisputed league championship. They made it to the league title game again in 1948, but lost to the Eagles in a rematch in the snow. The Cardinals had only four more .500 seasons under her ownership.\n\nViolet married St. Louis businessman Walter H.S. Wolfner (1898–1971) in 1949, becoming known as Violet Bidwill Wolfner. When it became apparent that Chicago wasn't big enough for both the Cardinals and the cross-town Bears of George Halas, the Wolfners moved the team to St. Louis after the 1959 season.\n\nShe died in a physician's office in Miami Beach, Florida, on January 29, 1962, and is buried at Queen of Heaven Cemetery in Hillside, Illinois. In her will, she split her more than 80% interest in the Cardinals between her adopted sons from her first marriage, Charles Bidwill, Jr. and Bill Bidwill, the club president and vice-president.\n\nThe will was contested in court by her second husband, who was the managing director of the football team. The Illinois Supreme Court upheld the will, in favor of the sons, in February 1963. Wolfner sought to invalidate the legal adoption of the two sons, who had eliminated his position with the team in May 1962. The sons co-owned the team for a decade, until Bill purchased his brother's share of the team in . 16 years after Bill took over the franchise in full, the team made another relocation to Phoenix, Arizona, and have based there since, becoming the Arizona Cardinals in 1994.\n\nHer wardrobe was auctioned off in November 1963. Among the 25,000 items were 1,000 coats and dresses and 1,500 pairs of shoes, many never worn; the auction fetched more than $40,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "6923739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6923739", "title": "William Sherman Jennings House", "text": "William Sherman Jennings House\n\nThe William Sherman Jennings House (also known as the May Mann Jennings House or the Jennings-Rogers House) is a historic residence in Brooksville, Florida, United States. It dates to ca. 1890. Located at 48 Olive Street, it was added to the National Register of Historic Places on October 22, 1998.\n\nThe house was owned by William Sherman Jennings and his wife, May Mann Jennings, who married on May 12, 1891. William Jennings was a lawyer, Hernando County Judge, State Legislator and Florida Governor from 1901-1905. May Jennings was active in civic work and politics, serving as president of the Florida Federation of Women's Clubs, co-founder of the Florida League of Women Voters and supported a dozen other causes.\n"}
{"id": "6727601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6727601", "title": "WinShape Foundation", "text": "WinShape Foundation\n\nWinShape Foundation is an American charitable organization founded in 1984 by Truett Cathy, founder of fast-food restaurant chain Chick-fil-A, and his wife Jeanette Cathy. WinShape's sister foundation, Lifeshape, was started by the Cathy's daughter and her husband, Trudy and John White.\n\nAfter its 1983 school year, Berry College (1902–present) closed its affiliated middle and high school operations at their financially struggling Berry Academy, forming the WinShape Foundation in 1984. As a separate non-profit foundation WinShape focused on a small college scholarship program housed in the former Berry Academy buildings. Subsequently a boys and girls summer camp were each added and foundation programs expanded to include foster homes, a challenge/ropes course, corporate and marriage retreats, and United States as well as global mission trips.\n\nIn 2007, the Foundation spent $18 million on the projects it supports, which include college scholarships, a network of foster homes and camps, and programs for marriage counseling.\n\nThe WinShape scholarship currently provides students at Berry College $8,000 yearly – funded jointly by WinShape and Berry College. These funds replace the first $8,000 of any academic scholarships offered by the college and require a special application and interview process. The program originated with only several dozen students and offered a total of $10,000 over four years. Today, WinShape currently has over 400 college students enrolled per year, with over 800 alumni in just over 20 years.\n\nThe requirement details of the scholarship program have varied since its inception. Eligibility originally required current Chick-fil-A employment, high achievement and community involvement in high school, and a willingness to sign a contract including Christianity-based rules. Employment by Chick-fil-A is no longer a requirement, but the Christian-based nature of WinShape is perhaps stronger today than ever; the current contract specifies weekly meeting attendance, leadership discussion group participation, community service, and a Fundamentalist Christian lifestyle, including abstaining from alcohol and drugs. Beginning in 2006, freshmen and transfer students were required to attend a week-long orientation camp known as FreshThing.\n\nAs of 2009, the foundation had awarded 951 Berry College scholarships with a maximum of $32,000 per student.\n\nThe foundation has awarded scholarships up to $32,000 to nearly 820 students of Berry College.\n\nAfter inception of the College Program in 1984, and wanting its campus to be used also during summer months, Cathy co-founded a summer camp (1985) for boys and girls (1987) on the Mountain Campus of Berry College (Mt. Berry) with Rick Johnson who had previously worked at North Carolina's Camp Ridgecrest, where Cathy's children had earlier attended. Modeled after Ridgcrest, the new camp was designed as a sports camp with a Christian emphasis using Native American themes to structure achievement. Age groups are organized into \"tribes.\" The boys' camp tribes include Apache (rising 2nd–4th grade), Shawnee (rising 5th–6th grade), Choctaw (rising 7th–8th grade), Navajo (rising 9th–12th grade), and Sioux (the adventure program, rising 10th–12th grade). The girls' camp tribes include Chippewa (rising 2nd–4th grade), Chickasaw (rising 5th–6th grade), Cheyenne (rising 7th–8th grade), Cherokee (rising 9th–10th grade), Catawba (rising 11th–12th grade), and Creek (the adventure program, rising 12th grade). Campers also can be awarded for Christian character and leadership. Those selected complete a challenge. The challenge consists of Scripture memorization, a run, starting a fire, building a lean-to, serving around camp, writing an essay, and completing a talking ban. At Boy's Camp, those selected who do not complete the challenge are called \"Bucks,\" and those who do complete the challenge are called \"Little Chiefs.\" At Girl's Camp, those selected are called \"Comanches.\" Comanches who complete the challenge are called \"Black Comanches,\" and those who do not complete the challenge are called \"White Comanches.\"\n\nIn 2011, WinShape began a one-week girls camp at Young Harris College in Young Harris, Georgia. This camp consists of three clubs: Skocean, Bumbline, and Royalum. The camp is divided into junior camp (rising 2nd-6th grade) and senior camp (rising 7th-9th grade).\n\nIn 2015, WinShape began a one-week boys camp at Truett-McConnell College. This camp consists of three squads: Blaze, Hydro, and Quake.\n\nIn 2016, WinShape began a one-week high school girls camp at Cohutta Springs. This camp consists of four legacies: Oak, Aspen, Willow, and Spruce.\n\nAs well as hosting overnight camps, Winshape also travels to churches and other sites to give a 1 week Day Camp for grades 1-9. Campers are separated into Ocean (1st and 2nd Grade), Safari (3rd and 4th Grade), Alpine (5th and 6th Grade), and Galaxy (7th, 8th, and 9th Grade).\n\nThe Ocean, Safari, and Alpine Groups can choose 3 skills from 22 options (2 of which are exclusive for Alpine Campers). Along with the skills throughout the day, campers also go to 2 small group worship sessions, 3 worship/activity sessions and a competition called Connectration where they compete all week to earn tokens which can earn them a head start in Triangulation. Finally on Chick-fil-a Friday Family Fun Day, they go for half a day to worship, play triangulation, and eat chick-fil-a (provided by Chick-fil-as in that area).\n\nGalaxy Campers (new for 2016) get to enjoy a more mature experience that goes deeper into faith without losing the fun. They go to 1 of the 3 worship/activity sessions in the morning called Wake Up! Where they have about 3 minutes to tell the younger campers what they will do that day. They also participate in the games that the younger campers play in to win tokens. The Galaxy Campers donate any tokens they receive to the younger group of their choice. Then they go to a number of activities including Main Events, Life Skills, Options (where they can choose from one of two skills and get a mini course of the skill), and a more mature worship session that goes deeper in their faith along with gender specific small groups and worship stations. Finally on Chick-fil-a Friday Family Fun Day, Galaxy has a similar day to the younger campers. During Triangulation, Galaxy is drafted into the three younger groups to help them win.\n\nIn 2017, WinShape Camps for Communities at Cobb is being launched. At Mt. Bethel UMC North Campus, WinShape will operate several sessions of a one-week day camp program that will remain at Mt. Bethel North the entire summer.\n\nAfter 25 years of sponsoring camp programs in the United States, in 2009 WinShape Camps started Camp in Brasília, Brazil. In 2010, WinShape Camps went back to Brazil to do week-long day camps around the capital city.\n\nS. Truett Cathy began a foster home in 1987 near the WinShape Centre on Berry College’s campus. It was designed to provide a home for up to twelve children with full-time parents to take care of them. To date, WinShape operates 13 homes for children who are simply victims of circumstance. There are 9 homes in Georgia, 3 in Tennessee, and one in Alabama. A Transitional Living Home has also been opened outside of Rome, Georgia to help young adults, from the program, transition successfully from high school to independence.\n\nWinShape Center is located near the hilltop campus of Berry College and more specifically at the adjacent former middle and high school campus of the Berry Academy. Once owned by Martha Berry, the site had once been home to a dairy farm with buildings originally constructed in the architectural style of Normandy, France. After founding WinShape, the academy buildings were remodeled and new buildings were added to create the resort. The new retreat center hosts meetings and fund raising events, with over 8000 guests annually. Donald (a.k.a. Bubba) and Cindy Cathy conduct marriage counseling programs at the center, aimed at those with healthy marriages to those actively considering divorce.\n\nStarted in 1991, WinShape Teams uses various techniques such as field games and ropes courses to encourage team-building and help organizations and groups work through issues and experience an improved sense of community.\n\nWinShape International is an organization that inspires Chick-fil-A operators and other leaders in the Chick-fil-A community to support leadership programs for young people globally. WinShape International uses Chick-fil-A’s SERVE model of leadership as a platform to help train young people to become servant-focused leaders.\n\nSince 2003, WinShape has donated over $5 million to allegedly anti-gay groups, including Eagle Forum, Focus on the Family, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Family Research Council, Exodus International, and the Marriage & Family Legacy Fund, groups which seek to provide, among other works, an anti-gay interpretation of biblical teachings about marriage and sexuality. Approximately $2 million was given in 2009 and almost the same amount in 2010. WinShape's financial support of these groups has caused gay-rights advocates to denounce Chick-fil-A and protest against its restaurants and products on various college and university campuses including Northeastern University and NYU. Northeastern University's Student Senate voted on February 28, 2012 to cancel plans for an on-campus Chick-Fil-A restaurant and an online petition against the NYU franchise was also launched that same month.\n\nChick-fil-A released a statement in July 2012: \"Going forward, our intent is to leave the policy debate over same-sex marriage to the government and political arena.\" In March 2014, tax filings for 2012 showed the group stopped funding all but one organization which had been previously criticized, WinShape Marriage, with a stated focus on couple retreats to strengthen marriages.\n\nAs of April 2018, Chick Fil-A reportedly continues to donate to anti-L.G.B.T. groups.,\n"}
{"id": "20391957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20391957", "title": "Working class education", "text": "Working class education\n\nWorking class education is the education of working-class people.\n\nPrior to the 19th century, education for most members of society was elementary and only an elite received advanced education. This was intended to provide members of each social class with an education befitting their expected future status—toil or leadership.\n\nChildren of the working class have a different educational experience than children of the middle and upper classes. Because of this, working class children can start out life at a disadvantage. Their educational experience may be hindered for several reasons, including influences from their parents, the schools they attend, and their expectations and attitudes, all of which are strongly affected by previous generations\n\nThe schools in the lower income districts are characterized by overcrowding and lack of resources. This is because the funding of American public schools comes mostly from their district's property taxes. Residential segregation occurs when people segregate themselves based on class and race. This leaves schools in the low income school districts with little because those who are capable of paying higher property taxes move to districts where there are higher taxes and schools are receiving more. For example, in New York City, where efforts are being made to level the playing field, students in the wealthiest school districts are given almost twice as much as students in the poorest district, an annual amount of $13,974 compared to $7,457. When schools lack funding, programs such as special education classes and extracurricular activities are cut back. This causes some working class children to not get the attention and help they require. When schools and teachers are not receiving the goods required to fulfill their duty, students cannot be expected to display the motivation to learn in a flawed system.\n\nThe way parents act in the home and raise their children has a large effect on how children will interact in social institutions. Many social scientists claim that middle class parents practice concerted cultivation, meaning a child's life is filled with organized activities and social interactions with adults. Due to the extent of their interactions outside of the home, the children of concerted cultivation develop a greater mastery of language and are instilled with a sense of entitlement, both of which allows them to become more comfortable when interacting with institutions. On the other hand, many working class parents practice the accomplishment of natural growth, where children have more control over their free time and are exposed to fewer interactions with adults that are outside of the home. These children are usually left to occupy themselves with activities such as watching TV, playing video games, or playing outside. Working-class parents put less emphasis on planned activities, than their middle class counterparts, because they are less likely to have the funds to pay for them.\n\nThe problem that comes with these differences in parenting practices is that schools, along with other institutions, are more harmonious with concerted cultivation, the parenting practice of the middle class. Teachers want parents and children to engage and be proactive, but parents and children of the working class feel a sense of constraint that leaves them confused on how to \"work the system\" and often causes them to become hostile towards schooling. Because working class parents are often uncomfortable around authority figures, they are less likely to communicate with their child's teacher or become involved in the school. As a result of this, low income school districts have lower involvement in parent teacher conferences. This could also be attributed to the fact that working class parents often have to hold down more than one job and do not have very much time to help their children with homework or attend school functions. As a consequence, working-class children mature in narrow social settings, receive fewer resources, and feel less entitlement.\n\nThe children of the working class approach school with a different attitude than those of higher class. This is because their sense of entitlement is lower than that of their middle class counterparts. Working-class students sometimes feel unentitled or that they do not belong in affluent high schools or colleges. Instead of viewing education as a way up in the world, the working class views it as valuable but not as a reality for them. For working class parents, they are more consumed with the tasks of simply getting by and providing for their children than they are with good grades and higher education. Parents pass this survival mentality onto their children and cause a cycle where working class children do not have the same aspirations instilled in them that the middle class does. Only 54% of students whose parents only received their high school diploma go on to pursue their bachelor's degree. This statistic is compared to the 82% of students whose parents received their bachelor's degree that go on to college. First generation students who do on go to college experience a culture shock once they get there because they are not as comfortable and sure of themselves as those that have come from a family that has received higher education. A 2012 review of the literature has shown that working-class students have a greater risk of being excluded from social life at universities, including formal activities such as campus-based clubs, societies, and organizations and informal activities such as parties and nonclassroom conversations. This is an important problem because social integration predicts student retention, and working class students are twice as likely as middle class students to drop out before their second year of college because they lack the persistence they need to face challenges and succeed in college.\n\nThe attitude of children born into the working class strongly reflects the way their parents raise them. The outlook and importance of education is not the same as families with wealth. Inheritance plays a strong role in the way parents and children view and value education.\n\nThere are some ways that this may be changed. In order to break this cycle, working class students might be taught the values of the middle class or the schooling system develop programs that help those students that are not receiving the support and guidance they need from home. The middle class values are the same values that are felt by the authority figures at school; therefore, through teaching working class students to value education and be more involved they will be able to navigate social institutions with greater purpose and poise. The problem could be that working class parents did not have these values instilled in them; therefore, they are less likely to pass these values on to their children. Schools have been left with the responsibility of being the only places for some children to learn the rules and values that are present in most institutions.\n\nSolving the problem of racism within these institutions, causing perpetual problems and nearly impossible change, would take large steps towards rectifying problems within the education system. As long as institutionalized racism exists, problems within the educational system will continue to exist.\n\nDue to the lack of resources in needy schools, educational facilities are forced to develop support systems that do not have any additional costs. Programs that have been introduced into lower income schools include the following:\n\n"}
