{"id": "337921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337921", "title": "Academic dress", "text": "Academic dress\n\nAcademic dress is a traditional form of clothing for academic settings, mainly tertiary (and sometimes secondary) education, worn mainly by those who have been admitted to a university degree (or similar), or hold a status that entitles them to assume them (e.g., undergraduate students at certain old universities). It is also known as academical dress, academicals, subfusc and, in the United States, as academic regalia.\n\nContemporarily, it is commonly seen only at graduation ceremonies, but formerly academic dress was, and to a lesser degree in many ancient universities still is, worn daily. Today, the ensembles are distinctive in some way to each institution, and generally consist of a gown (also known as a robe) with a separate hood, and usually a cap (generally either a square academic cap, a tam, or a bonnet). Academic dress is also worn by members of certain learned societies and institutions as official dress.\n\nThe academic dress found in most universities in the Commonwealth of Nations and the United States is derived from that of the universities of Oxford and Cambridge, which was a development of academic and clerical dress common throughout the medieval universities of Europe. \n\nFormal or sober clothing is typically worn beneath the gown so, for example, men would often wear a dark suit with a white shirt and a tie, or clerical clothing, military or civil uniform, or national dress, and women would wear equivalent attire. Some older universities, particularly Oxford and Cambridge, have a prescribed set of dress (known as \"subfusc\") to be worn under the gown. Although some universities are relaxed about what people wear under their gowns, it is nevertheless considered bad form to be in casual wear or the like during graduation ceremonies, and a number of universities may bar finishing students from joining the procession or the ceremony itself if not appropriately dressed (though this sometimes refers only to requiring the proper wear of academic dress and not what is worn beneath it, if unseen). In the Commonwealth, gowns are worn open, while in the United States, it has become common for gowns to close at the front, as did the original \"roba\".\n\nIn general, the materials used for academic dress are heavily influenced by the climate where the academic institution is located, or the climate where the graduate will usually be wearing the costume (as a faculty member at another institution, for example). In either case, the American Council of Education (ACE) allows for the comfort of the wearer, and concedes that lighter materials be used in tropical climates, and heavier materials elsewhere. In addition, it acknowledges cotton poplin, broadcloth, rayon, or silk as appropriate.\n\nThe materials used for academic dress vary and range from the extremely economical to the very expensive. In the United States, most Bachelor and master's degree candidates are often only presented the \"souvenir\" version of regalia by their institutions or authorized vendor, which are generally intended for very few wearings and are comparatively very inexpensive. For some doctoral graduates, commencement will be the only time they wear academic regalia, and so they rent their gowns instead of buying them. These rented (or hired) gowns are often made of inexpensive polyester or other man-made synthetic fibre. In Britain, rented gowns are almost always polyester while Russell cord, silk, or artificial silk gowns are only available when bought. Undergraduate gowns are usually made from cotton or cotton and polyester mix and are relatively inexpensive to encourage students to own them.\n\nPeople who choose to buy their dress may opt for finer fabrics, such as poplin, grosgrain, percale, cotton, wool, cassimere, broadcloth, Russell cord, or corded/ribbed material. For silk, there are a range of types including artificial silk/rayon, Ottoman (i.e. ribbed or corded silk), taffeta, satin, alpaca, true silk, shot silk, or a mixture. Pure Ottoman silk is rarely used except for official gowns, as it is very expensive. Some gowns may be trimmed with gimp lace, cords, buttons, or other forms of decoration.\n\nIn the past, fur has been used to line certain hoods (especially those of the UK) which range from rabbit to ermine. In the past, sheepskin was widely used. Most now use imitation fur, instead, mainly because of cost and animal rights concerns. Some robe makers use fur if the customer requests and pays for it, as some feel that the quality and feel of artificial fur has yet to match that of real fur.\n\nDoctor's robes usually use wool flannel, panama (worsted), superfine cloth, damask, or brocade, and are brightly coloured (or black, but faced with a bright colour) to distinguish them from lower degrees. They tend to be the most expensive because they must be dyed in a specific colour and/or be trimmed in coloured silks. Many doctoral gowns have a special undress version so adding to the cost of a full set.\n\nA full set may cost about US$360 (£180) for cheap materials to as much as $5800 (£2900) for high-quality materials. Usually, ex-hire gowns are available for purchase at cheaper prices, though the quality may be lower.\n\nMany institutions whose dress includes gowns of varying lengths prescribe the appropriate length of each gown with reference to parts of the wearer's body (undergraduate gowns at Cambridge, for example, must not reach the knees, whereas BA gowns should reach just beyond them, according to the University's statutes). As such, suppliers of academic dress produce gowns in many different sizes to fit persons of different heights.\n\nIn Canada, academic regalia are worn by university officials, faculty, students, and honoured guests during Graduation exercises (commonly referred to as Convocation), installations of their presiding officers, and special convocations, such as the inauguration of newly endowed professorial chairs and inductions to some of the honour and professional societies with university chapters. Academic regalia typically consist of a headgear (mortarboard, Tudor bonnet, or John Knox cap), robe, and hood. Until the 1930s, Canadian universities customarily prescribed academic robes for its professors and students at classes and lectures. At the University of Trinity College at the University of Toronto, academic gowns are still required for all students and faculty at Wednesday dinners, most college meetings, debates, and certain special college events.\n\nMost Canadian universities follow or adopted either the British University academic dress at Oxford or Cambridge universities, or the Intercollegiate Code of Academic Costume ratified by most American universities in the late 1890s. Other universities contain elements of the British and American patterns for some or all of their academic costumes. A classic example is the academic dress of McGill University, whose British origins are evident in the regalia of its degree holders. The distinctive ceremonial regalia of McGill University officials, though, are closer to the American pattern for the master's robe with above-the-elbow, square, slit-cut sleeves. The scarlet, doctor of philosophy (Ph.D.) regalia of McGill can now be worn closed-front, unlike the open-front only gown of the University of Cambridge higher doctoral full dress, from which it evolved. Gold strand tassels used in American doctoral regalia are wrapped around McGill's otherwise Tudor-style bonnet or tam.\n\nIn France, academic dress, also called the \"toge\" (from the word \"toga\", an ancient Roman garment), is similar to French judges' court dress, except for its colour, which depends on the academic field in which the wearer graduated. It is nowadays little worn, except by doctors during the opening of the university year or the ceremony for a doctorate \"honoris causa\". For doctors, it consists of:\n\nProfessors who served 20 years are sometimes presented with a sword (identical model to that of French police commissars).\n\nThe colours of the various academic fields are daffodil (yellow) for literature and arts, amaranth (purplish red) for science, redcurrant (reddish pink) for medicine, scarlet red for law, and violet (purple) for theology. University rectors, chancellors or presidents wear also specific costumes, which are violet regardless of the academic field in which they graduated.\n\nThe dress exists in two versions: the \"petit costume\" (\"small costume\") and the \"grand costume\" (\"great costume\"). Both are identical in form, and differ only in the presence or absence of the mortarboard and the repartition of colours on the gown and sash (the other elements of the dress, especially the epitoga, being identical for both):\n\nIn formal occasions, the \"grand costume\" is equivalent to white tie, whereas the \"petit costume\" is equivalent to black tie.\n\nGerman academic dress generally consists of gown and cap. Nowadays, if in use at all, it is only found at special occasions, such as public processions, inaugurations of rectors, and graduation ceremonies. Historically, only the rectors, deans, professors, and lecturers wore academic dress—not students or graduates. Each German university had its own system of colours and drapings to signify faculty membership and position in the university hierarchy.\n\nThe gown of the German academic dress is called \"Talar\" (with the accent on the second \"a\": talár; from Latin \"talare\" which means \"to the ankles\"). It can be traced back to the every day clothes of the scholars in the Middle Ages. The same word \"Talar\" is also used for the robes of Protestant (Lutheran) pastors and rabbis (not for judges or lawyers, their gowns are called \"Robe\"), although these gowns often differ more or less in cut, length, drappings, and sometimes even in colour (the gowns of the German Supreme Court are, e.g., completely dark red).\n\nThe professorial \"Talar\" can be described as a long black gown with wide sleeves, often with lapels in faculty colour, while deans wear a \"Talar\" completely in faculty colour. Rectors typically have a distinguished, more elaborate \"Talar\", e.g., made of velvet, coloured in red, or with gold embroidery. At some universities, the rector additionally wears a chain of office and, at some occasions, carries a scepter. The cap that accompanies the \"Talar\" is called \"Barett\". As is the case with the \"Talar\", which type of cap is used varies by university as well. Historically, caps made of soft materials rather than the square academic cap are common. The colour of the \"Barett\" matches the \"Talar\".\n\nAfter the German student movement, following the years of 1967 all West German universities dropped their academic dress because they were identified with right-winged conservatism and reactionism by the mostly socialist influenced students at that time: The famous slogan \"Unter den Talaren – Muff von 1000 Jahren\" (\"beneath the gowns the fug of 1000 years\") refers not only to the old traditions of the Middle Ages, but also to the Nazi regime and their self-declared \"empire of 1000 years\". In East Germany, which was a communist one-party state, \"Talare\" were abolished by law at the same time. After East Germany began to dissolve in 1989, several universities, particularly University of Rostock, University of Greifswald, University of Jena, and University of Halle-Wittenberg, resurrected lost traditions including the \"Talar\" for officials. Some traditional universities in West German states have since followed, such as University of Heidelberg.\n\nSince 2005, some universities introduced centrally organized graduation ceremonies for students of all faculties where academic dress is worn, most notably University of Bonn, Chemnitz University of Technology, and RWTH Aachen (only cap and stole). The graduates' dress usually consists of a simple black gown, a square academic cap, and possibly a stole in faculty colour. At most other universities, faculties are responsible for organizing graduation ceremonies individually. Some faculties have decided for wearing academic dress at their ceremonies as well, e.g., the Faculty of Law at University of Marburg and the Faculty of Economics and Business Administration at Goethe University Frankfurt. This practice is commonly understood as following Anglo-American examples rather than reviving old traditions.\n\nIn Indonesia, academic regalia, also called a \"toga\" is only worn in graduation ceremonies. An Indonesian toga generally comes in three pieces of clothing: a gown, a cape or a hood, and a cap with tassel (pentagon-shaped mortarboard/bonnet). Other items are also worn during graduation ceremony such as a medallion, tippet or academic stole.\n\nThere are four elements in Indonesian academic regalia:\n\nIn Italy there are several differences among the typical academic dress (gowns, academic caps, etc.) of the different universities, due to the great number of ancient universities in the country (for example the University of Bologna, University of Pavia, University of Padua, University of Pisa, University of Siena, University of Florence, University of Rome, etc.). Usually gowns are worn only by professors during ceremonies and, in some faculties, during graduations. After the student protests of 1968 many professors in many universities had stopped wearing academical gowns also in the formal occasions but since the nineties people have started to use them again, mostly in humanities faculties. Furthermore, also students have started to wear gowns and cap in graduation ceremonies (usually for Ph.D.) in some universities. Gowns are traditionally all hemmed with the colours of faculty, which have some variations following the tradition of each atheneum. However the most widely used table of colours is the following\n\nIn Malaysia, most public university academic gowns incorporate Songket motifs.\n\nAt Dutch universities, academic dress does not come with a degree but with the incumbency of a professorial chair: only full, chaired professors wear the \"toga\" with bib and beret. The beret is usually a soft cap, square or round and made of velvet; the gown (ankle-length, open in the front), is made of wool trimmed with velvet or silk It is traditionally black, as in the robes of early-modern humanists; some universities have gowns with wide slashed sleeves edged in faculty-specific colours, others have a decorated sleeve but without specific faculty colours. Recently established universities may show a greater variety of colours.\n\nAcademic dress is only worn on ceremonial occasions: the university anniversary or \"dies natalis\", inaugural lectures, and the public defence of a doctoral thesis. On such occasions, the assembled professors line up as a \"cortège\" headed by the university beadle, who also wears an academic gown and carries the university's mace. Male professors remove their beret when sitting down and put it on when standing up (e.g. to lecture or to address a doctoral candidate during the thesis defence). Female professors may keep the beret on at all times.\n\nAcademic dress may be completed by a chain of office (for the presiding Rector or Dean) or the insignia of honorary doctorates or royal orders (only worn at the \"dies natalis\").\n\nUniversity graduates in New Zealand wear an academic gown identical to those of the University of Cambridge and either a hood or scarf, depending on whether the graduate is receiving a degree or diploma. If the graduate is receiving a degree, a hood will be worn throughout the ceremony. If a diploma is received, the graduate will wear a diploma scarf.\n\nThe hood, like the gown, is identical to that of the hood for the Cambridge Master of Arts. A Bachelor's degree hood is lined with coloured satin and bordered with white fur (the exception to this are Canterbury and Waikato University which do not line their hoods with fur). The bachelor's degree with Honours hood is lined with coloured satin and bordered with white satin. The master's degree hood has no edging. A doctoral degree recipient wears the same as a graduate receiving a Masters, except the gown is completely silk, either black or scarlet, with the option to wear a cloth gown. A Doctoral hood is completely silk and the headdress is a black Tudor bonnet, in place of the flat-topped mortarboard worn with Bachelor's and Master's gowns.\n\nAcademic dress is rarely worn in New Zealand other than for some rare academic events - however some secondary schools, for instance King's College, Auckland, Auckland Grammar School and Lindisfarne College, retain the tradition of the headmaster wearing a gown while leading assemblies.\n\nBelow is a list of the general hood colours of graduates:\n\nMost colleges and universities in the Philippines follows the traditional mortarboard, hood and gown during graduation.\n\nIn some schools of the country, the colour of the gown corresponds to the school colour (Blue for Colegio de San Juan de Letran and Ateneo de Manila University, Green for Far Eastern University, and Red for San Beda University).\n\nSome schools like the University of Santo Tomas, due to its Spanish heritage, follows the Spanish academic attire such as the academic biretta and mozetta. The birreta and mozetta are worn by those from the Graduate School and the Faculty of Medicine and Surgery. Graduates of the Bachelors' programs wear the traditional mortarboard, hood and gown. The professors of the University wear their academic regalia during the Missa de Apertura or the Opening Mass of the Academic Year aside from Solemn Investitures (graduation ceremonies) and other academic activities. The academic colours are unique to this university as these depend on the official color of the faculty or college a student or an academe belongs into.\n\nA unique graduation garb worn at member universities of the University of the Philippines System is the use of the \"Sablay\". The \"Sablay\" was inspired from the Malong of Muslim Mindanao thus, giving it a Filipiniana look. It features the indigenous baybayin characters for \"U\" and \"P\". During the commencement ceremony, graduates wear the \"Sablay\" at the right shoulder, it is then moved to the left shoulder after the President of the University confers their degree, \"similar to the moving of the tassel of the academic cap.\" The \"Sablay\" is worn over traditional Filipino attire – Barong Tagalog for men and Filipiniana dress for women. The garb was first worn at the University of the Philippines Diliman. Other UP campuses followed suit.\n\nElementary and high school students also wear a certain kind of academic dress upon their graduation, usually a white gown and mortarboard for public schools. For private schools, the gown and mortarboard's color is at the discretion of the administration. There are several schools which make use of a hood-like design on top of their gowns which bears the school colors.\n\nThe wearing of traditional academic dress is an important feature of Polish educational ceremonies.\n\nAcademic dress varies from university to university. In some situations the hat is not used, e.g. Doctoral Exam.\nIn Portugal, following an ancient tradition, university regular students also use a specific dressing. The Traje Académico, as it is knowned in Portuguese, is recognized by its almost totallly black color and cape.\n\nTaiwan academic dress generally consists of gown and cap. Academic dress varies from university to university.\n\nNowadays, it is only found at special occasions, such as graduation ceremonies. \nAcademic dress in South Africa varies from one institution to another, but generally follow UK patterns. A common distinction is for graduands in all degrees up to and including the master's degree to have black gowns, while the PhD candidate wears a scarlet gown. These days, academic dress is only used at graduation ceremonies. The wearing of traditional African attire, or modern clothes inspired by traditional attire, beneath the academic dress has been a distinct trend in recent years.\n\n\"This article is partially translated from \"\nThe typical Spanish academic dress has Latin origin. It has been regulated since 1850, when Queen Isabella II established several rules about academic dress, according to the centuries-old Spanish custom. The typical Spanish academic dress for doctors is composed by:\nHowever, this academic dress is only used for the opening of the academic year and for PhD graduations or for doctorates \"honoris causa\". It is worn only by doctors, deans and the University Rector. For other graduates, the academic dress is often composed by a mortarboard and a mozzetta (\"muceta\") or a sash over the shoulder (\"beca\") with the shield of the University and/or Faculty. The colour of the mozzetta or the sash depends on the academic field.\n\nThe colours used in Spain for the various academic fields are:\n\nIn Sri Lanka, the academic dress consists of gown, hood (post-graduate) and a garland (on graduation day). Universities that were affiliated to the former University of Ceylon issue black gowns for graduates and post graduates; red gowns for masters and Phd graduates; crimson gowns for chancellors with a different colour gowns for senior academic faculty. These universities only issue garland on the graduation day to new graduates and only issue mortar boards to chancellor, vice chancellor and registrars. Private universities issue mortar boards to graduates along with a hood in place of garland.\n\nFinland and Sweden have similar traditions when it comes to academic clothing. For important academic ceremonies white tie is usually worn, however, often with traditional headwear and gowns. Gowns are not generally used except by the rector as a symbol of office, if anyone.\n\nThe regular student cap (Finnish: \"ylioppilaslakki\", Swedish: \"studentmössa\") usually has a white velvet crown, a black band and a black beak. The cap can be worn by anyone who has passed the matriculation examination and is acceptable wear for both formal and informal academic celebrations. Technology students wear a special kind of student cap called a \"teekkarilakki\" (Finnish) or \"teknologmössa\" (Swedish). It is similar to the traditional student cap, but features a tuft and a distinctive cockade to show which university the wearer is attending. Technology students generally wear their caps more frequently, and thus the tuft often symbolizes university engineering students. Although universities have different rules regarding the use of the cap, it is generally not awarded to the student until he or she has completed the first year of their studies. The technology student's hat may also be seen on informal occasions, being worn with the student overall at many universities.\n\nIn both countries many universities have doctoral hats for persons who have completed a PhD or similar degree. These usually resemble top hats and must be worn with white tie. Like other hats, they are not generally worn indoors, but they may be presented on a table. Events where the hat and white tie are worn include thesis defences, post-doctoral parties, ceremonial conferments of degrees, opening ceremonies and other formal ceremonies related to the university. At some universities, a doctoral ring is awarded together with the hat. In the Ingmar Bergman film \"Wild Strawberries\", one scene shows the conferral of a Jubilee doctor degree on the main character at the University of Lund, which includes the presentation of such a hat and ring. At the University of Helsinki a cape and a sword are commonly worn with the doctoral hat. Students of the student organization \"Limes\" may also be seen wearing a black cape.\n\nAcademic dress used by universities in Thailand follow two traditions. Some universities use a traditional robe known as \"suea khrui\", while others follow Western styles.\n\nIn Tunisia, University of Ez-Zitouna graduates wear an academic gown. Doctoral graduates in Islamic Sciences wear a jebba.\nFor other Tunisian universities, there is no academic gown.\n\nThere is a distinction between different types of academical dress. Most recently, gowns, hoods and caps are categorised into their shape and patterns by the Groves classification system, which is based on Nicholas Groves' document, \"Hood and Gown Patterns\". This lists the various styles or patterns of academic dress and assigns them a code or a Groves Classification Number. For example, the Cambridge BA style gown is designated [b2] and a hood in the Cambridge full-shape is designated [f1], etc. Because the universities are free to design their own academicals using a wide range of available gown, hood and cap patterns, colours and materials at their and the robemaker's disposal, the academicals of two given universities rarely clash with each other.\n\nThe Burgon Society was founded in 2000 to promote the study of academic dress. Its publications and activities examine the history and current use of academic dress and in 2011 it published the third edition of Shaw's reference book on British and Irish academical dress. The Society hosts a conference each spring at which recent research is presented.\n\nThe modern gown is derived from the \"roba\" worn under the \"cappa clausa\", a garment resembling a long black cape. In early medieval times, all students at the universities were in at least minor orders, and were required to wear the \"cappa\" or other clerical dress, and restricted to clothes of black or other dark colour. The gowns most commonly worn, that of the clerical type gowns of Bachelor's degrees (BA and BS) and Master's degrees (MA and MS), are substantially the same throughout the English-speaking world. All are traditionally made of black cloth, (although occasionally the gown is dyed in one of the university's colours) and the material at the back of the gown is gathered into a yoke. The Bachelor's gown has bell-shaped sleeves, while the Master's gown has long sleeves closed at the end, with the arm passing through a slit above the elbow.\n\nThere are two distinctive shapes used in the UK for doctor's gowns; the Oxford doctor's shape and the Cambridge doctor's shape. The former has bell-shaped sleeves, the latter has long open sleeves. Another rarer form is the Cambridge Doctor of Music dress gown which is a pattern between the two. The other form of doctor's gown is the undress gown. This is a black gown worn for less formal occasions such as lectures. This type of gown is rarely seen or worn nowadays as many wear the dress gown instead; however, the undress gown still plays a part in the older universities where academic dress is usually worn.\n\nUndergraduates at many older universities also wear gowns; the most common essentially a smaller knee-length version of the Bachelor's gown, or the Oxford Commoners gown which is a sleeveless lay type gown and has two streamers at the back at Oxford. At Cambridge, most colleges have their own distinctive design of gown. Undergraduates at St Andrews, with the exception of theology students, commonly wear scarlet woollen gowns with velvet collars. Undergraduate gowns are seldom worn (even in institutions that prescribe them) nowadays except in the older universities.\n\nAnother form of dress, now rarely seen, is the habit, which is worn over a black gown. Only Oxford, Cambridge, Durham and Newcastle use habits and mainly reserve their use for very formal ceremonial occasions and to a specific group of academics or officials.\n\nThe hood was originally a functional garment, worn to shield the head from the elements. In the English tradition, it has developed to an often bright and decorative garment worn only on special occasions. Hoods comprise two basic patterns: full shape or simple shape. The traditional full-shape hood consists of a cape, cowl, and liripipe, as is used at Cambridge. At Oxford, the bachelors' and masters' hoods use simple hoods that have lost their cape and retain only the cowl and liripipe. The colour and lining of hoods in academic dress represents the rank and/or faculty of the wearer. In many Commonwealth universities bachelors wear hoods edged or lined with white rabbit fur, while masters wear hoods lined with coloured silk (originally ermine or other expensive fur). Doctors' hoods are normally made of scarlet cloth and lined with coloured silk. Faculty colours were introduced by the University of London and many universities followed suit.\n\nThe academic cap or square, commonly known as the mortarboard, has come to be symbolic of academia. In some universities it can be worn by graduates and undergraduates alike. It is a flat square hat with a tassel suspended from a button in the top centre of the board. The mortarboard may also be referred to as a trencher cap (or simply trencher). The tassel is composed of a cluster of silk threads which are wrapped together with a cord which is attached to the button affixed to the centre of the headpiece. The loose strands are allowed to fall freely over the board edge, typically falling over the left front side of the cap. Often the strands are plaited together to form a cord with the end threads left untied. In many universities, holders of doctorates wear a soft-crowned, round-brimmed headpiece known as a Tudor bonnet or tam, rather than a trencher. Other types of hats used, especially in some universities in the UK, are the John Knox cap (mostly at Scottish universities), the Bishop Andrewes cap (a reinvention of the ancient form of the mortarboard, worn by Cambridge Doctors of Divinity DD's) and the pileus (at Sussex). In some universities, such as Oxford, women may wear an Oxford ladies' cap.\n\nOfficers of the universities generally wear distinctive and more elaborate dress. The Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor may wear a black damask lay type gown (sometimes with a long train) trimmed with gold or silver lace and frogs. They wear a velvet mortarboard, similarly trimmed with gold braid and tassel. Other than this gown, they may have other distinct forms of dress, such as the scarlet \"cappa clausa\" or cope worn in certain circumstances by the Vice-Chancellor of Cambridge or his/her deputy and by higher doctors presenting candidates for degrees, which was once worn by Doctors of Divinity. In the past, Chancellors may also wear full court dress with breeches and court shoes like that of the Lord Chancellor of Great Britain.\n\nAt degree ceremonies, graduands often dress in the academic dress of the degree they are about to be admitted to prior to the actual graduation ceremony. This is not the case at several of the older universities in the UK, most notably, Oxford, Cambridge and St Andrews which have their own distinct traditions.\n\nIn addition to universities and colleges, a number of British professional bodies, such as the Institute of Biology and the Institute of Physics grant academic dress to their members.\n\nAcademic regalia in the United States has been influenced by the academic dress traditions of Europe. There is an Inter-Collegiate code which sets out a detailed uniform scheme of academic regalia followed by most, though some institutions do not adhere to it entirely, and fewer still ignore it.\n\nThe practice of wearing academic regalia in the United States dates to the Colonial Colleges period, and was heavily influenced by European practices and styles. Students of most colonial colleges were required to wear the \"college habit\" at most times – a practice that lasted until the eve of the American Civil War in many institutions of higher learning. In some rare instances the practice has persisted, such as at , where members of the student honor society, along with most professors, continue to wear the gown to class. After the Civil War, academic regalia was generally only worn at ceremonies or when representing the institution. There was not, however, any standardization among the meanings behind the various costumes. In 1893, an Intercollegiate Commission made up of representatives from leading institutions was created, to establish an acceptable system of academic dress. The Commission met at Columbia College (now Columbia University) in 1895 and adopted a code of academic regalia, which prescribed the cut and style and materials of the gowns, as well as determined the colours which were to represent the different fields of learning. In 1932 the American Council on Education (ACE) authorized the appointment of a committee \nThe committee reviewed the situation and approved a code for academic costumes that has been in effect since that year. A \"Committee on Academic Costumes and Ceremonies\", appointed by the American Council on Education in 1959, again reviewed the academic dress code and made several changes.\n\nAlthough academic dress is now rarely worn outside commencement ceremonies or other academic rituals such as encaenia in the U.S. graduation ceremonies have gained popularity and have expanded from high school graduations to middle school, elementary school and kindergarten graduation ceremonies.\n\nBachelors' and masters' gowns in the United States are similar to their counterparts in the United Kingdom, though bachelor's gowns are now designed to be worn closed, and all are at least mid-calf length to ankle-length. The masters' gown sleeve is oblong and, though the base of the sleeve hangs down in the typical manner, it is square cut at the rear part of the oblong shape. The front part has an arc cut away, and there is a slit for the wrist opening, but the rest of the arc is closed. The shape is evocative of the square-cut liripipe incorporated into many academic hoods (\"see\", below). The master's gown is designed to be worn open or closed.\n\nDoctoral robes are typically black, although some schools use robes in the school's colours. The Code calls for the outside shell of the hood (\"see\", below) to remain black in that case, however. In general, doctoral gowns are similar to the gowns worn by bachelor's graduates, with the addition of three velvet bands on the sleeves and velvet facing running down the front of the gown. The Code calls for the gown trim to be either black or the colour designated for the field of study in which the doctorate was earned (see \"Inter-Collegiate colors\"). However, it should be noted that in the case of the degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), although it is awarded for study in any number of fields, the dark blue velvet of philosophy is always used regardless of the particular field studied. For example, if not choosing black trim, a PhD in theology would wear velvet gown trim in dark blue, while a Doctor of Theology (Th.D.) would wear scarlet trim, if not choosing black. The robes have full sleeves, instead of the bell sleeves of the bachelor's gown. Some gowns expose a necktie or cravat when closed, while others take an almost cape-like form. It is designed to be worn open or closed in the front.\n\nThe Code calls for the shell material of the hood to match the robe, and for the colour to be black regardless of the colour of the robe being worn. The interior lining – generally silk – displays the colours of the institution from which the wearer received the degree, in a pattern prescribed by it (usually, if more than one colour is used, chevrons or equal divisions). The opening of the hood is trimmed in velvet or velveteen. In most American colleges and universities, the colour of the velvet hood trimming is distinctive of the academic field – or as closely related as possible – to which the degree earned pertains (see \"Inter-Collegiate colors\"). Many institutions, particularly larger ones, have dispensed with the bachelor's hood at commencement ceremonies altogether, though a graduate is still entitled to wear one once the degree is conferred.\n\nHeadwear is an important component of cap-and-gown, and the academic costume is not complete without it. The headwear will vary with the level of academic achievement and, to some extent, on the individual academic institution's specifications. For caps, the mortarboard is recommended in the Code, and the material required to match the gown. The exception—velvet—is reserved for the doctor's degree only, seen in the form of a multiple-sided (4, 6, or 8) tam, but the four-sided mortarboard-shaped tam in velvet is what the Code seems to recommend here. The only colour called for is black, in all cases. The tassel worn on the mortarboard or a tam seems to provide, by tradition, the greatest opportunity for latitude in American academic dress. It has been black, or represented the university's colours, or the colours of the specific college, or the discipline. The tassel has also been used to indicate membership in national honour societies or other awards. There is at some colleges and universities a practice of moving the tassel from one side to the other on graduating, but this is a modern innovation that would be impractical out of doors due to the vagaries of the wind. For doctoral and masters students, the tassel commonly begins and remains on the left.\n\nThe colours allocated to the various fields of learning have been largely standardized in the United States by the Intercollegiate Bureau of Academic Costume, and accepted by the American Council on Education in its \"Academic Costume Code.\" Some of the more common colours seen are that liberal arts is represented by white, science by golden yellow, medicine by green, law by purple, theology by scarlet, and philosophy (including all PhD degrees) by dark blue. A distinction is made in the code, which calls for a graduate to display the colour of the subject of the degree obtained, not the degree itself. For example, if a graduate is awarded a Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree specifically in business the trimming should be drab, representing commerce/accountancy/business, rather than white, representing the broader arts/letters/humanities; the same method is true of master's degrees and doctorates. However, in 1986, the American Council on Education updated the Code and added the following sentence clarifying the use of the colour dark blue for the Doctor of Philosophy degree, which is awarded in any number of fields: \"In the case of the Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degree, the dark blue colour is used to represent the mastery of the discipline of learning and scholarship in any field that is attested to by the awarding of the degree, and it is not intended to represent the field of philosophy.\"\n\nA number of other items such as cords, stoles, aiguillettes, etc. representing various academic achievements or other honours are also worn at the discretion of some degree-granting institutions. Technically, however, the ACE code does not allow their use on or over academic regalia.\n\nAcademic dress for pontifical universities tends to vary by the host country. Traditionally, for doctors of a pontifical university or faculty \"the principal mark of a Doctor's dignity is the four horned biretta.\" under the old Code of Canon Law, in commencement ceremonies and other academic settings, doctors from pontifical faculties and universities had a canonical right to wear the doctoral biretta, as stated in can. 1378, and explained in commentary 262 of the Commentarium Codicis Iuris Canonici as follows:\nThere is no equivalent canon in the current Code of Canon Law promulgated in 1983, but the tradition remains.\n\nThe Sartoria Gammerelli offers, in line with the updated stipulations of the Pontifical Gregorian University, birettas lined with the following assorted piping and tufts depending on which faculty one is graduated from: Green for Canon Law, Red for Sacred Theology, Blue for Philosophy, and Orange for Social Sciences. Three-horned birettas are to be used by Licentiates, four-horned for Doctors.\n\nAcademic dress for the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\" graduates consists of a black toga or academic gown with trim to follow the color of the faculty, and an academic ring. For the doctoral degree a four corned biretta is to be worn, and for the Licentiate degree a three corned biretta is to be worn. See:Academic regalia of the Pontifical University of St. Thomas Aquinas. The 'traditional' biretta at the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\", is white, to correspond to the white Dominican habit. Also, the academic senate of the \"Angelicum\" in its May 2011 meeting indicated that the black biretta may be used with trim and pom in the color of the particular faculty.\n\nA three-peaked black biretta with appropriately colored piping may be similarly used by those receiving the licentiate degree (S.T.L., Ph.L.).\n\n\nAcademic dress details for the following universities are available via these links:\n\nCanada\n\nUnited Kingdom and Ireland\n\nOthers\n\nBooks\n\n\nJournals\n\nElectronic\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13441462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13441462", "title": "Academy of Hospitality and Tourism", "text": "Academy of Hospitality and Tourism\n\nThe Academy of Hospitality and Tourism is one of the three major programs sponsored by the National Academy Foundation which provides students with skills and knowledge necessary for travel. The program teaches students in the art of geography, economics and tourism business as well as hospitality. Students participating may earn college credit while still in secondary education.\n\n"}
{"id": "8505814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8505814", "title": "African University of Science and Technology", "text": "African University of Science and Technology\n\nThe African University of Science and Technology (AUST) is a post-graduate university which is part of a university system concept developed by the Nelson Mandela Institution (NMI) with the aim of bringing the highest level of technical education and research facilities to the continent of Africa. AUST represents a global effort to foster Sub-Saharan Africa's economic growth and development through the promotion of excellence in science and engineering and their applications. The ultimate vision of NMI is to develop four African institutions of science and technology across Sub-Saharan Africa — one each in the north, south, east, and west of the continent. AUST was patterned on the decentralized model that has been successfully implemented by the IIT-Bombay. It currently offers programs in five major disciplinary areas, namely, Computer Science and Management of Information Technology, Material Science and Engineering, Petroleum Engineering, Pure and Applied Mathematics and with effect from the beginning of 2019, will also offer programs in Space and Aerospace Sciences and Engineering as well as its first foray into applied Social Sciences with Master's degree in Public Administration and Public Policy. Working with a small corps of resident faculty, it accomplishes its high quality teaching and research by inviting highly accomplished and reputed professors from universities and research institutions across the globe, to participate in face-to-face teaching and supervision of student research. The Visiting Professors include many Africans working in the diaspora.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39037103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39037103", "title": "American School Board Journal", "text": "American School Board Journal\n\nThe American School Board Journal is a monthly trade magazine on school administration established in 1891 by the United States National School Boards Association. \n\nThe focus of the \"American School Board Journal\" is on the challenges of K-12 public schools and topics related to school leadership, governance, management, policy making, and student achievement.\n\nThe \"American School Board Journal\" organizes the \"Magna Awards\" which is an annual program to showcase school districts and projects in the United States which are examples of innovation and excellence in school governance. The program was started in 1995 by the magazine with an objective to highlight school boards that improve educational programs by taking remarkable steps. Currently, the Magna Awards program is co-sponsored by the National School Boards Association and Sodexo. \n\nNominees are separated into three categories based on the size of their school districts: enrollment under 5,000, from 5,000-20,000, and over 20,000. In each category, there is one grand prize winner, five additional awards and five honorable mentions. The criteria of judging include the involvement of the school board, the success of the projects, the ability to replicate in other school districts, and the advancement of student learning.\n\nThe \"American School Board Journal\" received the following awards:\n"}
{"id": "50436882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50436882", "title": "Bob Ross", "text": "Bob Ross\n\nRobert Norman Ross (October 29, 1942 – July 4, 1995) was an American painter, art instructor, and television host. He was the creator and host of \"The Joy of Painting\", an instructional television program that aired from 1983 to 1994 on PBS in the United States, and also aired in Canada, Latin America, and Europe. Ross went from being a public television personality in the 1980s and 1990s to being an Internet celebrity in the 21st century, becoming popular with fans on YouTube and many other websites after his death.\n\nRoss was born in Daytona Beach, Florida, to Jack and Ollie Ross (a Cherokee Indian carpenter and a waitress, respectively), and raised in Orlando, Florida. As a child, Ross entertained himself by caring for injured animals, purportedly including an armadillo, snake, and alligator. One of these animals, a squirrel named Peapod (full nickname \"Peapod The Pocket Squirrel\"), was featured most prominently in a few episodes of his show. Another squirrel, one with epilepsy Bob called \"Squirrely Wirrelly Brown\" (which was given 6 months to live by a Vet but Bob talked about her 4 to 5 years after getting her) was also on the show less frequently (she was usually kept at home in Ross' basement in a big cage next to where she'd watch him paint). He had a half-brother, Jim, whom he mentioned in passing on his show. Ross dropped out of high school in the 9th grade to work as a carpenter with his father, Jack Ross, when he lost part of his left index finger. This, however, did not affect the way he held his palette while painting.\n\nIn 1961, 18-year-old Ross enlisted in the United States Air Force and was put into service as a medical records technician. He eventually rose to the rank of master sergeant and served as the first sergeant of the U.S. Air Force Clinic at Eielson Air Force Base in Alaska, where he first saw the snow and mountains that later became recurring themes in his artwork. He developed his quick-painting technique to create art for sale during brief daily work breaks. Having held military positions that required him to be, in his own words, \"tough\" and \"mean\", \"the guy who makes you scrub the latrine, the guy who makes you make your bed, the guy who screams at you for being late to work\", Ross decided that if he ever left the military, he would never yell or raise his voice again.\n\nDuring his 20-year tenure with the U.S. Air Force, Ross developed a taste for painting after attending an art class at the Anchorage U.S.O. club. He found himself frequently at odds with many of his painting instructors, who were more interested in abstract painting. In Ross' own words: \"They'd tell you what makes a tree, but they wouldn't tell you how to paint a tree.\"\n\nRoss was working as a part-time bartender when he discovered a TV show called \"The Magic of Oil Painting\", hosted by German painter Bill Alexander. Alexander touted a 16th-century style of painting called \"alla prima\" (\"Italian for \"first attempt\"\"), better known as \"wet-on-wet\", that allowed him to finish a painting in a little under 30 minutes. Ross studied and became quite good at alla prima through Alexander's show, and began selling Alaskan landscapes painted on the inside of novelty gold pans. When Ross began making more money from selling the gold pans than his military job, he retired from the Air Force in 1981 after 20 years of service, having the rank of Master Sergeant.\n\nHe first went to Florida and studied painting under Alexander, then joined the \"Alexander Magic Art Supplies Company\" and became a traveling salesman and tutor. Annette Kowalski, who had attended one of his sessions, became convinced that there was a great opportunity for Ross to succeed on his own, and persuaded him to do so. She invested her life savings in the company, as did Ross and his wife. The business struggled at first; his permed hairstyle came about as a cost-cutting measure, when his regular crewcut haircuts became too expensive. Ross grew increasingly uncomfortable with the style in his later years, but kept it throughout his career.\n\nThe origins of the TV show, \"The Joy of Painting\", are unclear. It was filmed at the studio of the PBS station WIPB in Muncie, Indiana.\n\nThe show ran from January 11, 1983 to May 17, 1994, but reruns continue to appear in many broadcast areas and countries, including the non-commercial digital subchannel network Create. During each half-hour segment, Ross would instruct viewers in oil painting using a quick-study technique from the imagination that used a limited palette of paints and broke down the process into simple steps. Art critic Mira Schor compared him to Fred Rogers, host of \"Mister Rogers' Neighborhood\", noting that Ross' soft voice and the slow pace of his speech were similar.\n\nWith help from Annette Kowalski, Ross built a $15 million business, Bob Ross Inc., selling his line of art supplies and how-to books, and marketing painting classes taught by instructors trained in the \"Bob Ross method\". All of his income, he said, was derived from those sources; the show was intended to be a vehicle to promote his classes and products. All of his paintings, including those created during his shows, were donated to PBS stations.\n\nRoss also filmed wildlife, squirrels in particular, usually in his garden, and he would often take in injured or abandoned squirrels and other animals. Small animals often appeared on his \"Joy of Painting\" canvasses.\n\nRoss used the wet-on-wet oil painting technique, in which the painter continues adding paint on top of still-wet paint rather than waiting a lengthy amount of time to allow each layer of paint to dry. From the beginning, the program kept the selection of tools and colors simple so that viewers would not have to make large investments in expensive equipment. Ross frequently recommended odorless paint thinner (aka odorless mineral spirits) for brush cleaning. Combining the wet painting method with the use of large one- and two-inch brushes, as well as painting knives, allowed Ross to paint trees, clouds, mountains, and water in a matter of seconds. Each painting would start with simple strokes that appeared as nothing more than smudges of color. As he added more and more strokes, the blotches would transform into intricate landscapes.\n\nRoss painted three versions of almost every painting featured on his show. The first was painted prior to taping, and sat on an easel, off-camera, during filming, where Ross used it as a reference to create the second copy—the one viewers actually watched him paint. After filming the episode, Ross painted a third, more detailed version for inclusion in his instructional books.\n\nRoss dedicated the first episode of the second season of \"The Joy of Painting\" to Bill Alexander, explaining that \"years ago, Bill taught me this fantastic [wet-on-wet] technique, and I feel as though he gave me a precious gift, and I'd like to share that gift with you [the viewer]\". As Ross's popularity grew, his relationship with Alexander became increasingly strained. \"He betrayed me,\" Alexander told the \"New York Times\" in 1991. \"I invented 'wet on wet', I trained him, and ... he thinks he can do it better.\" Art historians have pointed out that the \"wet-on-wet\" (or alla prima) technique actually originated in Flanders during the 15th century, and was used by Frans Hals, Diego Velázquez, Caravaggio, Paul Cezanne, John Singer Sargent, and Claude Monet, among many others.\nRoss was well known for the catchphrases he used while painting such as \"happy little trees\". In most episodes of \"The Joy of Painting\", Ross would note that one of his favorite parts of painting was cleaning the brush. Specifically, he was fond of his method of drying off a brush that he had dipped in odorless thinner by striking it against the thinner can (then striking a box for early seasons, and trashcan for later seasons; occasionally he would strike the brush hard on the trashcan, and say he \"hit the bucket\") and easel. He would smile and often laugh aloud as he said to \"beat the Devil out of it\". He also used a palette that had been lightly sanded down, which was necessary to avoid catching the reflections of the strong studio lighting.\n\nRoss wore clothes that he believed would be a \"timeless look\" (jeans and a button-down shirt). He also used a minimalist set and spoke as if he were only addressing one viewer.\n\nWhen asked about his laid-back approach, and his calm and contented demeanor, he commented,\n\nI got a letter from somebody here a while back, and they said, \"Bob, everything in your world seems to be happy.\" That's for sure. That's why I paint. It's because I can create the kind of world that I want, and I can make this world as happy as I want it. Shoot, if you want bad stuff, watch the news.\n\nThe landscapes he painted—typically mountains, lakes, snow, and log cabin scenes—were strongly influenced by his years living in Alaska, where he was stationed for the majority of his Air Force career. He repeatedly stated on the show his belief that everyone had inherent artistic talent and could become an accomplished artist given time, practice, and encouragement, and to this end was often fond of saying, \"We don't make mistakes; we just have happy accidents.\" In 2014, the blog FiveThirtyEight conducted a statistical analysis of the 381 episodes in which Ross painted live, concluding that 91 percent of Ross' paintings contained at least one tree, 44 percent included clouds, 39 percent included mountains and 34 percent included mountain lakes. By his own estimation, Ross completed more than 30,000 paintings in his lifetime.\n\nRoss was fond of country music, and in 1987 he was invited on stage by Hank Snow at the Grand Ole Opry in Nashville, Tennessee. The audience gave him a huge ovation; he was slightly nervous at first, but felt better after cracking a joke to the crowd. Snow was later given a private painting lesson by Ross.\n\nRoss visited New York City to promote his hardcover book, \"The Best of the Joy of Painting with Bob Ross\", and painting techniques to a studio audience several times. One visit in 1989 he appeared on \"The Joan Rivers Show\". He returned in 1992 for a live show with hosts Regis Philbin and Kathie Lee Gifford. There was one in 1994, when Phil Donahue, who watched his videos and loved his painting technique, invited him to the show to promote his work. Ross took five audience members on-stage to do a painting and even Phil himself did a painting and showed it in that episode.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Ross did several MTV promotional spots that, according to the \"American City Business Journals\", \"dovetailed perfectly with Generation X's burgeoning obsession with all things ironic and retro.\"\n\nRoss had one son, Steven Ross, with his first wife, Vivian Ridge. Steven, also a talented painter, occasionally appeared on \"The Joy of Painting\" and became a Ross-certified instructor. Steven appeared on camera in the last episode of Season 1, in which he read a series of general \"how-to\" questions sent in by viewers during the season, and Bob answered them one at a time, technique by technique, until he had completed an entire painting.\n\nRoss and Ridge's marriage ended in divorce in 1977. Ross and his second wife, Jane, had no children together. In 1992, Jane died from cancer. In 1995, two months before his death, Ross remarried for a third time to Lynda Brown.\n\nRoss is known to have been very secretive about his life and had a great liking for privacy, with only a tight circle of friends. Some of only a few interviews with his close-knit circle of friends and his family can be found in the 2011 PBS documentary \"Bob Ross: The Happy Painter\". His company, Bob Ross Inc., is protective of his intellectual property and his privacy to this day.\n\nRoss was diagnosed with lymphoma in the spring of 1994, which eventually forced him to retire; the final episode of \"The Joy of Painting\" aired on May 17, 1994. He died at the age of 52 on July 4, 1995. His remains are interred at Woodlawn Memorial Park in Gotha, Florida, under a plaque marked: \"Bob Ross; Television Artist\". Ross kept his diagnosis a secret from the general public, and his lymphoma was not known outside of his circle of family and friends until after his death.\n\nSince his death, Ross has been embedded in multiple instances of pop culture. Commenting for a 2017 news story about him, entertainment website Screen Rant would note that the artist \"continues to have one of the most remarkable second lives of any media figure of the past several decades\" References to him have been included in television shows including \"Family Guy\", \"The Boondocks\", and \"Peep Show\".\n\nHis videos became popular with devotees of the autonomous sensory meridian response (ASMR).\n\nGoogle celebrated the 70th anniversary of his birth with a Google Doodle on October 29, 2012. It portrayed Ross painting a depiction of the letter \"g\" with a landscape in the background.\n\nIn 2015, Bob Ross was included in a commercial for HGTV Sherwin-Williams paint along with Leonardo da Vinci, Andy Warhol, Michelangelo and Vincent van Gogh.\n\nAs part of the launch of Twitch Creative, Twitch.tv hosted a nine-day marathon of Bob Ross' \"The Joy of Painting\" series which started on October 29, 2015 in commemoration of what would have been his 73rd birthday. Twitch reported that 5.6 million viewers watched the marathon, and due to its popularity, created a weekly rebroadcast with one season of \"The Joy of Painting\" to air on Twitch each Monday, and will have a marathon of episodes each October 29. A portion of the advertising revenue has been promised to charities, including St. Jude Children's Research Hospital.\n\nIn June 2016, Ross' series \"Beauty Is Everywhere\" was added to the Netflix lineup. The 30-minute episodes are taken from seasons 20, 21 and 22 of the original \"The Joy of Painting\" series.\n\nIn May 2017, Ross' likeness was added as a skin for Sylvanus in the MOBA video game \"Smite\" Of the inclusion, website Venturebeat would go on to call it,\"one of the most bizarre crossovers in gaming history,\" At one point Ross was going to have his own video game to be released on Wii, the Nintendo DS and PC with development handled by AGFRAG Entertainment Group although this never came to fruition.\n\nIn 2017, a board game titled \"Bob Ross: The Art of Chill\" was released and carried by Target Stores.\n\nIn November 2017, a spoof of Bob Ross and his TV show, \"The Joy of Painting\", was used as the basis of a teaser trailer for the movie \"Deadpool 2\". The same month, a Chia Pet model in Bob Ross's likeness was also released.\n\n"}
{"id": "6588066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6588066", "title": "British qualified accountants", "text": "British qualified accountants\n\nBritish qualified accountants are full voting members of United Kingdom professional bodies that evaluate individual experience and test competencies for accountants.\n\nThe term \"accountant\" does not have the same legal protection in the United Kingdom as that given to other professions such as doctors and lawyers. Only certain functions are restricted to professionally qualified accountants; for example, individuals who operate in the areas of audit and insolvency must be registered, and only members of certain accountancy bodies are eligible for such registration. If working in public practice, these qualified accountants must comply with additional regulations such as holding professional indemnity insurance (as accountants are one of the professions most at risk of professional indemnity) and submitting to regular and independent inspections.\n\nCCAB-qualified accountants is an informal shorthand for full members of any of the UK accountancy bodies formed by royal charter. All six of these bodies founded the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies in 1974; CIMA left after 2011, but its members may still be intended when this phrase is used.\n\nThe British Government's Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, implementing the Companies Acts 1989 and 2006, allows members of six bodies to act as auditor to a limited company. These are the five member bodies of CCAB, and the AIA.\nIn the European Union, under the EU mutual recognition directive, members of these six bodies may practise auditing in other EU member states, with 'absolute equal status'.\n\nIn addition, there are other non-CCAB bodies whose members also provide accountancy and related services.\n\nIt is illegal for any individual or firm that is not a Registered Auditor to perform an audit of a UK limited company. To become a Registered Auditor, an accountant must hold a practising certificate from a recognised body, demonstrate the necessary professional ability in that area, and submit to regular inspection.\n\nCertain bodies, known under the Companies Acts 1989 and 2006 as Recognised Qualifying Bodies (RQBs), award the qualifications necessary for audit work, as an entry requirement. A similar but not identical list of Recognised Supervisory Bodies (RSBs) may authorise their members to carry out company audits.\n\nThe six RQBs in relation to company auditing under the Companies Acts are:\n\n\nThe AIA and CIPFA are not RSBs; their members, if engaging in audit, must therefore be supervised by another body.\nThe Association of Authorised Public Accountants (AAPA) has the status of RSB, historically under a grandfather clause in order to supervise individuals who had been authorised for audit purposes under the Companies Act 1948. \n\nRQBs and RSBs are self-regulated but monitored by the Professional Oversight Board (POB), part of the Financial Reporting Council (FRC), to support public confidence.\n\nUnder the European Union's Mutual Recognition Directive, all British accountants with practising rights and belonging to a RQB/RSB can practice as a public accountants in all member countries of the European Union, European Economic Area and Switzerland, providing that they are citizens of one of these states. They can describe themselves only by their own accountancy qualification rather than the local professional accountant qualification; access to the local professional qualifications is based on an aptitude test.\n\nVarious other national bodies have mutual recognition agreements with most British RQBs. For example, in Hong Kong, members of RQBs excluding CIPFA are accredited by HKICPA and therefore licensed under the Professional Accountants Ordinance with 'absolute equal status' to local CPAs.\n\nUnder the Companies Act, Insolvency Act & Financial Services and Markets Act, only the ACCA, ICAEW, CAI and ICAS are able to authorise members to conduct all the legally restricted work of insolvency and 'investment business work' in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn the UK, there is no licence requirement for individuals to describe themselves or practise as an accountant (except for audit or insolvency work). However, to use certain titles and designatory letters requires membership of the appropriate professional body, thus:\n\nThe chartered bodies and the AIA (which is the other Recognised Qualifying Body) admit members only after passing examinations and undergoing a period of relevant work experience. Syllabi and methods of assessment vary between these bodies, and may include a project, case study or viva (One-to-one case study and oral examination). Candidates who hold degrees in accounting or related subjects may be exempt from certain papers. Some bodies, including ICAEW, provide direct membership exchanges and short routes to admittance for members of certain overseas bodies. Once admitted, members are expected to comply with ethical guidelines, gain appropriate professional experience and undergo continuing professional development.\n\nThe other bodies recognise academic qualifications and work experience.\n\nMost bodies offer Fellowship after five or ten years' further experience in good standing as an Associate member.\n\nBefore engaging in practice (i.e. selling services to the public rather than acting as an employee), an accountant belonging to any of these bodies must gain a 'practising certificate' by meeting further requirements such as purchasing adequate insurance and undergoing inspections.\n\nVarious bodies offer lower-level qualifications in bookkeeping and related skills. Individuals with such qualifications are not recognised as professionally qualified accountants.\n\nThe Association of Accounting Technicians (AAT) (designatory letters MAAT or FMAAT, standing for \"Member of the Association of Accounting Technicians\" or \"Fellow Member of the Association of Accounting Technicians\", respectively) is the UK’s leading body offering a qualification at a level between that of 'bookkeeper' and that of the Recognised Qualifying Bodies. After passing exams and obtaining relevant experience, its members can apply for MIP (Member in Practice) status and are then licensed and regulated by the AAT to provide practice accounting, tax and financial advisory services, although they are not entitled to undertake audit or insolvency work. As in the case of members of the RQBs, AAT MIPs are required to hold adequate insurances and undertake regular CPD activities relevant to the services they offer.\n\nPractising accounting technicians are entitled to refer to themselves as 'accountants', as the term is not protected in law (unlike, say, 'solicitors' and 'doctors'). They cannot, however, present themselves as being of chartered status.\n\nThe AAT is sponsored by the professional accounting bodies CIMA, CIPFA, ICAEW and ICAS. ACCA withdrew its sponsorship in order to establish its own similar qualification, the Certified Accounting Technician (CAT). CATs are not eligible for practising certificates.\n\nThe International Association of Book-keepers (IAB) offer Qualifications and Credit Framework (QCF) qualification specifically in bookkeeping and Payroll. IAB members are professionally qualified book-keepers. Members use designatory letters AIAB standing for \"Associate Member of the IAB\", MIAB \"Member of the IAB and FIAB \"Fellow Member of the IAB\". FIAB can also use the designation \"Registered Book-keeper\". After passing exams and obtaining relevant experience, its members can apply for a Certificates of Supervision, Certificate of Compliance and eventually Certificates in Practice status, depending on membership level and experience, and are then licensed and regulated by the IAB to provide practice book-keeping, accounting, tax and financial advisory services, although they are not entitled to undertake audit or insolvency work. As in the case of members of the RQBs, IAB practicing members are required to hold adequate insurances and undertake regular CPD activities relevant to the services they offer. Although not sponsored by any other professional body, IAB qualifications are recognised by many of the bodies and members may, depending on the qualifications they hold apply for some exemptions to the other professional bodies.\n\nAIA also offers IAT with the London Chamber of Commerce & Industry. \nIFA offers Financial Accounting Technician (AFT)\n\nThe Institute of Certified Bookkeepers (ICB), founded in the UK in 1996, claims over 150,000 students and members worldwide.\n\nThe Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies (known as CCAB) was formed in 1974 as an umbrella group for the major British qualified accountancy bodies. The six British and Irish professional accountancy bodies with a royal charter were the founder members of the CCAB. On 2 March 2011, the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) announced that it would be leaving CCAB, because CCAB had become more focussed on audit since the formation of the Financial Reporting Council as the regulator for accounting matters, and therefore less relevant to CIMA members.\n\nThe remaining members are:\n\n\nAll full members of these bodies and CIMA are deemed to hold equivalent-level qualifications. Many job advertisements for accountants in the United Kingdom therefore specify 'CCAB qualified' as though it was a specific qualification rather than a group of qualifications. \nIn practice some employers use the term as shorthand for 'professional accountant' and might consider members of non-Chartered bodies or overseas equivalents.\n\nThe CCAB bodies are Recognised Qualifying Bodies (RQBs) in relation to company auditing under the Companies Act 2006. , however, CIPFA's status as an RQB is currently in abeyance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1214002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1214002", "title": "Catan (2007 video game)", "text": "Catan (2007 video game)\n\nCatan was the Xbox Live Arcade version of Klaus Teuber's \"The Settlers of Catan\", developed by Big Huge Games in collaboration with Teuber. It was released on May 2, 2007. It is the first German-style board game to be released on Xbox Live Arcade, which was followed by \"Carcassonne\".\n\nThe game has since been removed from Xbox Live Arcade and is no longer available to purchase.\n\nDuring an interview with Big Huge Games founder Brian Reynolds, it was revealed that Microsoft approached Big Huge Games with the idea for the project. As part of the same interview, Klaus Teuber's collaboration on the project was explained, noting that he was instrumental in helping Reynolds create the AI, using notes and statistics he had generated years ago but had never previously been able to apply.\n\nReynolds later stated, regarding the board game, \"The design is so elegant you can teach someone to play in minutes and then spend years trying to master it. With our expertise in interface design and artificial intelligence, it seemed like a natural fit for the project!\".\n\nTeuber has fully endorsed the Big Huge Games version, claiming that the game has exceeded his expectations and noting that he himself has lost several games in a row to the AI. The rules of the computerized version are faithful to the original, with one exception suggested by Teuber himself; the number of resource cards held by players is not limited to the number of resource cards which came with the board game. This was the original design intent, but one which couldn't be implemented due to the necessity to include only a finite number of physical cards in game boxes.\n\nAs with the traditional board game, \"Catan\" uses a game board composed of 19 randomly arranged hexagonal tiles, each representing a different type of terrain or resource. Through strategy, luck, and skillful negotiation, 3 or 4 players vie to be the first to earn 10 victory points. This is done through building and enlarging settlements, by establishing the largest army, by building the longest road, or through the use of certain \"development cards\".\n\n\"Catan\" claims to have the best \"Settlers of Catan\" artificial intelligence to date, featuring thirteen unique AI personalities for single player play and multiplayer games with fewer than four humans. Each AI personality, portrayed by a likeness of a famous leader or general (e.g. Abraham Lincoln, Alexander the Great, Cleopatra, etc.), has attributes such as their preferred strategy for winning, how quickly they like to expand, and their favorite resource. Three difficulty levels (easy, medium, and hard) control the level of expertise displayed by these opponents.\n\nThe game features two different \"skins\" for the game board. The first is a traditional flat view of the board, while the second is a \"living world\", showing the board as a 3D environment. The board can be rotated during gameplay to provide the desired view, and users can also tweak other visual options such as player colors (for those who are color blind).\n\nAs is typical of Xbox Live Arcade games, the game features online play and leaderboards. Separate leaderboards are used to display single player and multiplayer rankings. Unlike many games which keep the TrueSkill level of the players hidden, \"Catan\" displays the calculated current values on one of the leaderboards.\n\nGameplay is turn-based, but turn timers are used to prevent individual players from halting the progression of the game. While not accessible in ranked matches, custom matches can make use of user-defined \"House Rules\". Items which can be tweaked include the turn timer, how resource production works, rules for the thief/robber, and several others.\n\nIn all types of matches, players can use graphical \"ticklers\" (or \"emotes\") to communicate thoughts or feelings, including love or hatred of the dice and/or other players. Similar devices, referred to as \"Fooms\", were previously available in the Hardwood series of Xbox Live Arcade games. These can be used as an alternative to voice chat (which is supported but not required) in order to, for example, encourage opponents to \"sweeten a deal\" or warn that they are too close to winning. The ticklers are used by AI players to indicate their \"mood\" in response to a player's actions; pleasing AIs will influence them to treat the player as an ally (though not to the point of jeopardizing their position), while angering them will serve to focus their negative attention. AI players will react to player-directed emotes towards them as well.\n\nLess than a week after the title's release, a separate theme pack (\"Themes Pack 1\") and picture pack (\"Generals Picture Pack 1\") were made available for download.\n\nOn May 31, 2007 a \"Mayfair\" skin pack (to change the visual representation of the game to the United States version of the board game) was available, as well another gamertag picture pack (\"Generals Picture Pack 2\").\n\nOn June 13, 2007, a \"Generals\" AI expansion pack was released which added additional computer-controlled opponents, including Joan of Arc, Hannibal, and Tokugawa.\n\nReviews of the game have generally found it to be a solid adaptation of the classic board game, but noting that this inherently limits the game's audience. While those who enjoy slower-paced strategy games will likely find the title a good value, the pace won't appeal to players who demand more action. The user interface has been well received, with the trading interface receiving wide praise, although reviews note several negatives as well, including the title's lack of support for the Xbox Live Vision camera and the absence of a local multiplayer option. Additionally, the game uses a relatively small text font which may be hard to read on smaller televisions, although the developers have stated that the game uses separate fonts for high-definition and standard-definition displays.\n\nContrary to published critical reviews, however, customer reaction has been strongly positive, with the game debuting third in sales in its first week of availability.\n\nAs of June 11, 2011, the GameRankings score is 83%, and the Metacritic score is 81%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38616322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38616322", "title": "Centre for Foreign Relations", "text": "Centre for Foreign Relations\n\nThe Mozambique-Tanzania Centre for Foreign Relations (CFR) is a higher learning institution in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. It is located in the Kurasini ward.\n\nThe Centre for Foreign Relations (CFR) is one of the high learning institutions in Tanzania. The CFR was established in 1978, as a result of an agreement between the governments of the United Republic of Tanzania and the Republic of Mozambique. The Centre has been incorporated in Immunities and Privileges Act No. 5 (1986). This incorporation conferred the Centre with the status of a Diplomatic Institution, a status which the Centre continues to enjoy to date.\n\nThe Centre was originally designed to train nationals of the two countries in the field of International Relations and Diplomacy. However, the expansion of foreign policy constituency and the demands of each country out of global changes enabled the Centre to admit students from other ministries, the private sector as well as other countries. New demanded programmes namely; Economic Diplomacy, Language and Communication Skills and Strategic Studies were introduced in the Centre’s training programmes.International Relations is an important discipline offered in other higher learning institutions. However, the CFR combines the study of International Relations and Diplomacy into one meaningful training programme. Moreover, the CFR offers a comprehensive programme for the low and medium level government and private sector personnel dealing with International Relations and Diplomacy.\n\nThe Vision of the Centre is to become a regional Centre of excellence in diplomatic and strategic studies.\n\nThe Mission of the Centre is to create and sustain national and regional capacity for conflict prevention, management, resolution and early warning systems through research and analysis, policy advocacy and advice, outreach and training.\n\nIt was founded in 1978 by the governments of Mozambique and Tanzania in order to train foreign service officers of the two countries' foreign ministries.\n\nThe Centre offers courses in International Relations and Diplomacy, Strategic Studies, Economic Diplomacy and Foreign Languages.\n\nThe Centre for Foreign Relations (CFR) is a corporate body with an established agreement and constitution. It has a Governing Council, the Director, Deputy Director - Academics, Research and Consultancy (DD – ARC), Deputy Director -Planning, Finance and Administration (DD - PFA) and various heads of departments.\n\n"}
{"id": "4605362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4605362", "title": "Charlotte Mason", "text": "Charlotte Mason\n\nCharlotte Maria Shaw Mason (1 January 1842 – 16 January 1923) was a classical English educator in England at the turn of the twentieth century. She proposed to base the education of children upon a wide and liberal curriculum. She was inspired by the writings of John Amos Comenius, Matthew Arnold and John Ruskin.\n\nCharlotte Mason was born in the hamlet of Garth near Bangor on the Northwest tip of Wales, near Caernarfon. Garth has now been incorporated into the modern city of Bangor. An only child, she was mostly educated at home by her parents. Mason taught for more than ten years at Davison School in Worthing, England. During this time she developed her vision for \"a liberal education for all\".\n\nBetween 1880 and 1892, Charlotte Mason wrote a popular geography series called The Ambleside Geography Books:\n\nMason was later a lecturer at the Bishop Otter Teacher Training College in Chichester, England, where she stayed for more than five years and gave a series of lectures about the education of children under 9, later published as \"Home Education\" (1886).\n\nShe co-founded the Parents' Educational Union (PEU), an organisation that provided resources to parents educating their children at home. She launched and served as editor-in-chief at the \"Parents' Review\" to keep in touch with PEU members.\n\nIn 1890 she met Henrietta Franklin in what others consider to be the \"inspiring experience\" of Franklin's life. By 1892 Franklin had opened the first school in London based on Mason's principles. In 1894 Franklin became the secretary of the re-named Parents' National Educational Union and she undertook speaking tours to major cities in America, Europe and South Africa. She devoted her own money to the cause and wrote on its behalf. Franklin's biography cites that the PNEU's continued existence is down to her.\n\nMason moved to Ambleside, England, in 1891 and established the House of Education, a training school for governesses and others working with young children. By 1892, the Parents' Educational Union had added the word \"National\" to its title to become the Parents' National Educational Union (PNEU), and a Parents' Review School had been formed (later to be known as the Parents' Union School), at which the children followed Mason's educational philosophy and methods.\nMason wrote and published several other books developing and explaining her theories of education:\n\"We may not make character our conscious objective,\" she wrote, but she believed that parents and teachers should \"Provide a child with what he needs in the way of instruction, opportunity, and wholesome occupation, and his character will take care of itself: for normal children are persons of good will, with honest desires toward right thinking and right living. All we can do further is to help a child to get rid of some hindrance––a bad temper, for example––likely to spoil his life.\"\nMason's last book, \"Towards A Philosophy of Education\" was published in 1923, nearly forty years after her first book. It is written primarily to address the application of her methods and principles with high school students, but she also revised a summary of her principles, and in some cases revises and refines what she had written in previous volumes. Many home educators who read her volumes recommend starting with volume 6.\n\nIn addition to the geography series and her six volumes on education, Mason also wrote and published a six volume work called The Saviour of the World (published between 1908–14), a study of the life and teaching of Jesus in verse.\n\nOver the years between the publication of volumes 1 and 6 of her education series, other schools adopted her philosophy and methods, and the Ambleside establishment became a teacher training college to supply all the Parents' Union Schools that were springing up, as well as to assist with correspondence programs provided for British parents living overseas. Mason spent her final years overseeing this network of schools devoted to \"a liberal education for all.\"\n\nAfter her death, the training school became Charlotte Mason College and was run by the Cumbrian Local Education Authority. In the 1990s, due to financial pressure, it became the tenth college of Lancaster University. An unfavourable Ofsted report four years later led to a merger with St Martin's College to become the Ambleside campus of St Martin's College.\n\nThe buildings now form part of the University of Cumbria and a health centre. There is also a museum attached. In March 2008, the University announced plans to end teacher training in Ambleside, developing the campus for postgraduate work and a conference centre.\n\nMason's philosophy of education is probably best summarised by the principles given at the beginning of each book mentioned above. Two key mottos taken from those principles are \"Education is an atmosphere, a discipline, a life\" and \"Education is the science of relations.\" She believed that children were born persons and should be respected as such; they should also be taught the Way of the Will and the Way of Reason. Her motto for students was \"I am, I can, I ought, I will.\"\n\nMason placed great emphasis on the reading of high-quality literature, and coined the phrase \"living books\" to denote those writings that \"spark the imagination of the child through the subject matter.\" Her philosophy has had a tremendous impact on homeschooling around the world and her methods were adopted by curriculum pioneers such as David Quine, Sonya Shafer, and Karen Smith, and lists of \"living books\" have been compiled by Leslie Nolani Laurio and Susan Craven.\n\nCharlotte Mason was the first person to perceive the educational potential of Scouting applied to children. In April 1905, she added \"Aids to Scouting\" by Robert Baden-Powell to the syllabus of the Parents' Union School. Later, Baden-Powell credited a governess trained by Mason, coupled with the reputation of Mason herself, for suggesting the educational possibilities of Scouting. This, amongst other influences, led to \"Scouting for Boys\" and the formation of the Scouting movement.\n\nMason and her teachers organised the Parents' Union Scouts for boys and girls around the country, both those educated at home and those at schools using the P.N.EU system \"(date?)\". When the Girl Guides were established, Mason suggested that the P.U. Scouts amalgamate with national organisations for boys and girls respectively.\n\nCharlotte wrote several books in the latter portion of her life, mainly on the subjects Education & Geography.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56530052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56530052", "title": "Chartered Accountant of Singapore", "text": "Chartered Accountant of Singapore\n\nChartered Accountant of Singapore is a professional accounting qualification in Singapore. Candidates who successfully complete the \"Singapore Qualification Programme\" in Accounting are eligible to register as Chartered Accountants of Singapore under the Singapore Accountancy Commission Act 2013.\n"}
{"id": "16858761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16858761", "title": "Child Care Management System", "text": "Child Care Management System\n\nChild Care Management System or CCMS, is an Australian national child care system that aims to bring all approved child care services online. \n\nCentres must through registered software record child, enrolment and attendance information to the Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations (DEEWR). This allows for the department to calculate payment of Child Care Benefit (CCB) fee reductions on behalf of children in their service. CCBs are payments from the Government of Australia to child care services to take care of children.\n\n"}
{"id": "14705543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14705543", "title": "Civic intelligence", "text": "Civic intelligence\n\nCivic intelligence is an \"intelligence\" that is devoted to addressing public or civic issues. The term has been applied to individuals and, more commonly, to collective bodies, like organizations, institutions, or societies.\n\nCivic intelligence is similar to John Dewey's \"cooperative intelligence\" or the \"democratic faith\" that asserts that \"each individual has something to contribute, and the value of each contribution can be assessed only as it entered into the final pooled intelligence constituted by the contributions of all\". Civic intelligence is implicitly invoked by the subtitle of Jared Diamond's 2004 book, \"Collapse: Why Some Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed\" and to the question posed in Thomas Homer-Dixon's 2000 book \"Ingenuity Gap: How Can We Solve the Problems of the Future?\" that suggests that civic intelligence will be needed if humankind is to stave off problems related to climate change and other potentially catastrophic occurrences. With these meanings, civic intelligence is less a phenomenon to be studied and more of a dynamic process or tool to be shaped and wielded.\n\nRobert Putnam, who is largely responsible for the widespread consideration of \"social capital\", has written that social innovation often occurs in response to social needs. This certainly resonates with George Basalla's findings related to technological innovation, which simultaneously facilitates and responds to social innovation. The concept of \"civic intelligence,\" certainly an example of social innovation, is a response to a perceived need and the reception that it receives or doesn't receive will be in proportion to its perceived need by others.\n\nCivic intelligence focuses on the role of civil society and the public for several reasons. At a minimum, the public's input is necessary to ratify important decisions made by business or government. Beyond that, however, civil society has originated and provided the leadership for a number of vital social movements. Any inquiry into the nature of civic intelligence must be collaborative and participatory. Civic intelligence is inherently multi-disciplinary and open-ended. Cognitive scientists address some of these issues in the study of \"distributed cognition.\" Social scientists study aspects of it with their work on group dynamics, democratic theory, on social systems generally, and in many other subfields. The concept is important in business literature (\"organizational learning\") and in the study of \"epistemic communities\" (scientific research communities, notably).\n\nNo atlas of civic intelligence exists, yet the quantity and quality of examples worldwide is enormous. While a comprehensive \"atlas\" is not necessarily a goal, people are currently developing online resources to record at least some small percentage of these efforts. The rise in the number of transnational advocacy networks, the coordinated worldwide demonstrations protesting the invasion of Iraq, and the World Social Forums that provided \"free space\" for thousands of activists from around the world, all support the idea that civic intelligence is growing. Although smaller in scope, efforts like the work of the Friends of Nature group to create a \"Green Map\" of Beijing are also notable.\n\nLike the term \"social capital\", \"civic intelligence\" has been used independently by several people since the beginning of the 20th century. Although there has been little or no direct contact between the various authors, the different meanings associated with the term are generally complementary to each other.\n\nThe first usage identified was made in 1902 by Samuel T. Dutton, Superintendent of Teachers College Schools on the occasion of the dedication of the Horace Mann School when it noted that \"increasing civic intelligence\" is a \"true purpose of education in this country.\" More recently, in 1985, David Matthews, president of the Kettering Foundation, wrote an article entitled \"Civic Intelligence\" in which he discussed the decline of civic engagement in the United States.\n\nA still more recent version is Douglas Schuler's \"Cultivating Society's Civic Intelligence: Patterns for a New 'World Brain'\". In Schuler's version, civic intelligence is applied to groups of people because that is the level where public opinion is formed and decisions are made or at least influenced. It applies to groups, formal or informal, who are working towards civic goals such as environmental amelioration or non-violence among people. This version is related to many other concepts that are currently receiving a great deal of attention including collective intelligence, distributed intelligence, participatory democracy, emergence, new social movements, collaborative problem-solving, and Web 2.0.\n\nWhen Schuler developed the Liberating Voices pattern language for communication revolution, he made civic intelligence the first of 136 patterns.\n\n"}
{"id": "19736780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19736780", "title": "Colorado Mountain Club", "text": "Colorado Mountain Club\n\nThe Colorado Mountain Club (CMC), formed in 1912, is a nonprofit, 501 (c)(3) outdoor education organization based in Golden, Colorado that gathers and disseminates information regarding Colorado's mountains in the areas of art, science, literature and recreation. The club advocates for the preservation of the alpine regions, and was instrumental in the creation of Rocky Mountain National Park. The CMC has its own press with over 30 published titles, and has continuously published \"Trail & Timberline\" magazine since 1918.\n\nFrom 25 charter members in 1912, the club rapidly grew to 200 members barely a year later, when the CMC became a nonprofit corporation. Charter members included such notable historic figures as Enos Mills, Roger Toll, and Carl Blaurock.\n\nIn 1974, the club purchased its first permanent home in Denver, Colorado. In 1993, the CMC partnered with the American Alpine Club to found the American Mountaineering Center in Golden, Colorado. The building houses the largest mountaineering library in the world, as well as a state-of-the-art museum, which opened in February, 2008, and is named for famed mountaineer Henry Bradford Washburn, Jr.\n\nThe CMC has a state-level organization along with 14 local groups, serving communities such as Denver, Boulder, Colorado Springs, Pueblo, and Aspen.\n\nThe club first ventured into education by forming a mountaineering school in 1939. Today, the club offers classes in a variety of subjects, including wilderness trekking, nature photography, mountaineering, climbing, wilderness first aid, fly fishing, and leadership. Classes are taught by volunteers and often involve lectures and field days.\n\nMembers of the club are able to sign up for trips, most of which take place within the state of Colorado. Trips are led by volunteer trip leaders who handle the planning and organization as well as the execution. Trips may include such activities as hiking, climbing, fishing, and photography and are offered at various levels of difficulty. The club's adventure travel program also provides international travel opportunities.\n\nThe CMC has a conservation committee that is active in representing hiker interests in the state of Colorado. It also conducts volunteer trail work throughout the state to help maintain and build hiking trails.\n\nThe CMC is the official repository for summit registers on Colorado's popular fourteeners. It also maintains the comprehensive list of each person who has climbed all 53 of these high peaks. It also provides a free online system called mySummits for hikers to report summits of Colorado's 100 highest peaks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5355", "title": "Cooking", "text": "Cooking\n\nCooking or cookery is the art, technology, science and craft of preparing food for consumption. Cooking techniques and ingredients vary widely across the world, from grilling food over an open fire to using electric stoves, to baking in various types of ovens, reflecting unique environmental, economic, and cultural traditions and trends. The ways or types of cooking also depend on the skill and type of training an individual cook has. Cooking is done both by people in their own dwellings and by professional cooks and chefs in restaurants and other food establishments. Cooking can also occur through chemical reactions without the presence of heat, such as in ceviche, a traditional South American dish where fish is cooked with the acids in lemon or lime juice.\n\nPreparing food with heat or fire is an activity unique to humans. It may have started around 2 million years ago, though archaeological evidence for it reaches no more than 1 million years ago.\n\nThe expansion of agriculture, commerce, trade, and transportation between civilizations in different regions offered cooks many new ingredients. New inventions and technologies, such as the invention of pottery for holding and boiling water, expanded cooking techniques. Some modern cooks apply advanced scientific techniques to food preparation to further enhance the flavor of the dish served.\n\nPhylogenetic analysis suggests that human ancestors may have invented cooking as far back as 1.8 million to 2.3 million years ago. Re-analysis of burnt bone fragments and plant ashes from the Wonderwerk Cave, South Africa, has provided evidence supporting control of fire by early humans there by 1 million years ago. There is evidence that \"Homo erectus\" was cooking their food as early as 500,000 years ago. Evidence for the controlled use of fire by \"Homo erectus\" beginning some 400,000 years ago has wide scholarly support. Archaeological evidence from 300,000 years ago, in the form of ancient hearths, earth ovens, burnt animal bones, and flint, are found across Europe and the Middle East. Anthropologists think that widespread cooking fires began about 250,000 years ago, when hearths started appearing.\n\nRecently, the earliest hearths have been reported to be at least 790,000 years old.\nCommunication between the Old World and the New World in the Columbian Exchange influenced the history of cooking. The movement of foods across the Atlantic, from the New World, such as potatoes, tomatoes, maize, yams, beans, bell pepper, chili pepper, vanilla, pumpkin, cassava, avocado, peanut, pecan, cashew, pineapple, blueberry, sunflower, chocolate, gourds, and squash, had a profound effect on Old World cooking. The movement of foods across the Atlantic, from the Old World, such as cattle, sheep, pigs, wheat, oats, barley, rice, apples, pears, peas, chickpeas, green beans, mustard, and carrots, similarly changed New World cooking.\n\nIn the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, food was a classic marker of identity in Europe. In the nineteenth-century \"Age of Nationalism\" cuisine became a defining symbol of national identity.\n\nThe Industrial Revolution brought mass-production, mass-marketing and standardization of food. Factories processed, preserved, canned, and packaged a wide variety of foods, and processed cereals quickly became a defining feature of the American breakfast. In the 1920s, freezing methods, cafeterias and fast food restaurants emerged.\n\nAlong with changes in food, starting early in the 20th century, governments have issued nutrition guidelines, leading to the food pyramid (introduced in Sweden in 1974). The 1916 \"Food For Young Children\" became the first USDA guide to give specific dietary guidelines. Updated in the 1920s, these guides gave shopping suggestions for different-sized families along with a Depression Era revision which included four cost levels. In 1943, the USDA created the \"Basic Seven\" chart to make sure that people got the recommended nutrients. It included the first-ever Recommended Daily Allowances from the National Academy of Sciences. In 1956, the \"Essentials of an Adequate Diet\" brought recommendations which cut the number of groups that American school children would learn about down to four. In 1979, a guide called \"Food\" addressed the link between too much of certain foods and chronic diseases, but added \"fats, oils, and sweets\" to the four basic food groups.\n\nMost ingredients in cooking are derived from living organisms. Vegetables, fruits, grains and nuts as well as herbs and spices come from plants, while meat, eggs, and dairy products come from animals. Mushrooms and the yeast used in baking are kinds of fungi. Cooks also use water and minerals such as salt. Cooks can also use wine or spirits.\n\nNaturally occurring ingredients contain various amounts of molecules called \"proteins\", \"carbohydrates\" and \"fats\". They also contain water and minerals. Cooking involves a manipulation of the chemical properties of these molecules.\n\nCarbohydrates include the common sugar, sucrose (table sugar), a disaccharide, and such simple sugars as glucose (made by enzymatic splitting of sucrose) and fructose (from fruit), and starches from sources such as cereal flour, rice, arrowroot and potato.\n\nThe interaction of heat and carbohydrate is complex. Long-chain sugars such as starch tend to break down into simpler sugars when cooked, while simple sugars can form syrups. If sugars are heated so that all water of crystallisation is driven off, then caramelization starts, with the sugar undergoing thermal decomposition with the formation of carbon, and other breakdown products producing caramel. Similarly, the heating of sugars and proteins elicits the Maillard reaction, a basic flavor-enhancing technique.\n\nAn emulsion of starch with fat or water can, when gently heated, provide thickening to the dish being cooked. In European cooking, a mixture of butter and flour called a roux is used to thicken liquids to make stews or sauces. In Asian cooking, a similar effect is obtained from a mixture of rice or corn starch and water. These techniques rely on the properties of starches to create simpler mucilaginous saccharides during cooking, which causes the familiar thickening of sauces. This thickening will break down, however, under additional heat.\n\nTypes of fat include vegetable oils, animal products such as butter and lard, as well as fats from grains, including corn and flax oils. Fats are used in a number of ways in cooking and baking. To prepare stir fries, grilled cheese or pancakes, the pan or griddle is often coated with fat or oil. Fats are also used as an ingredient in baked goods such as cookies, cakes and pies. Fats can reach temperatures higher than the boiling point of water, and are often used to conduct high heat to other ingredients, such as in frying, deep frying or sautéing. Fats are used to add flavor to food (e.g., butter or bacon fat), prevent food from sticking to pans and create a desirable texture.\n\nEdible animal material, including muscle, offal, milk, eggs and egg whites, contains substantial amounts of protein. Almost all vegetable matter (in particular legumes and seeds) also includes proteins, although generally in smaller amounts. Mushrooms have high protein content. Any of these may be sources of essential amino acids. When proteins are heated they become denatured (unfolded) and change texture. In many cases, this causes the structure of the material to become softer or more friable – meat becomes \"cooked\" and is more friable and less flexible. In some cases, proteins can form more rigid structures, such as the coagulation of albumen in egg whites. The formation of a relatively rigid but flexible matrix from egg white provides an important component in baking cakes, and also underpins many desserts based on meringue.\n\nCooking often involves water, frequently present in other liquids, which is both added in order to immerse the substances being cooked (typically water, stock or wine), and released from the foods themselves. A favorite method of adding flavor to dishes is to save the liquid for use in other recipes. Liquids are so important to cooking that the name of the cooking method used is often based on how the liquid is combined with the food, as in steaming, simmering, boiling, braising, and blanching. Heating liquid in an open container results in rapidly increased evaporation, which concentrates the remaining flavor and ingredients – this is a critical component of both stewing and sauce making.\n\nVitamins and minerals are required for normal metabolism but which the body cannot manufacture itself and which must therefore come from external sources. Vitamins come from several sources including fresh fruit and vegetables (Vitamin C), carrots, liver (Vitamin A), cereal bran, bread, liver (B vitamins), fish liver oil (Vitamin D) and fresh green vegetables (Vitamin K). Many minerals are also essential in small quantities including iron, calcium, magnesium, sodium chloride and sulfur; and in very small quantities copper, zinc and selenium. The micronutrients, minerals, and vitamins in fruit and vegetables may be destroyed or eluted by cooking. Vitamin C is especially prone to oxidation during cooking and may be completely destroyed by protracted cooking. The bioavailability of some vitamins such as thiamin, vitamin B6, niacin, folate, and carotenoids are increased with cooking by being freed from the food microstructure. Blanching or steaming vegetables is a way of minimizing vitamin and mineral loss in cooking.\n\nThere are very many methods of cooking, most of which have been known since antiquity. These include baking, roasting, frying, grilling, barbecuing, smoking, boiling, steaming and braising. A more recent innovation is microwaving. Various methods use differing levels of heat and moisture and vary in cooking time. The method chosen greatly affects the end result because some foods are more appropriate to some methods than others. Some major hot cooking techniques include:\n\n\nCooking can prevent many foodborne illnesses that would otherwise occur if the food is eaten raw. When heat is used in the preparation of food, it can kill or inactivate harmful organisms, such as bacteria and viruses, as well as various parasites such as tapeworms and \"Toxoplasma gondii\". Food poisoning and other illness from uncooked or poorly prepared food may be caused by bacteria such as of \"Escherichia coli\", \"Salmonella typhimurium\" and \"Campylobacter\", viruses such as noroviruses, and protozoa such as \"Entamoeba histolytica\". Bacteria, viruses and parasites may be introduced through salad, meat that is uncooked or done rare, and unboiled water.\n\nThe sterilizing effect of cooking depends on temperature, cooking time, and technique used. Some food spoilage bacteria such as \"Clostridium botulinum\" or \"Bacillus cereus\" can form spores that survive boiling, which then germinate and regrow after the food has cooled. This makes it unsafe to reheat cooked food more than once.\n\nCooking increases the digestibility of many foods which are inedible or poisonous when raw. For example, raw cereal grains are hard to digest, while kidney beans are toxic when raw or improperly cooked due to the presence of phytohaemagglutinin, which is inactivated by cooking for at least ten minutes at .\n\nFood safety depends on the safe preparation, handling, and storage of food. Food spoilage bacteria proliferate in the \"Danger zone\" temperature range from , food therefore should not be stored in this temperature range. Washing of hands and surfaces, especially when handling different meats, and keeping raw food separate from cooked food to avoid cross-contamination, are good practices in food preparation. Foods prepared on plastic cutting boards may be less likely to harbor bacteria than wooden ones. Washing and disinfecting cutting boards, especially after use with raw meat, poultry, or seafood, reduces the risk of contamination.\n\nProponents of raw foodism argue that cooking food increases the risk of some of the detrimental effects on food or health. They point out that during cooking of vegetables and fruit containing vitamin C, the vitamin elutes into the cooking water and becomes degraded through oxidation. Peeling vegetables can also substantially reduce the vitamin C content, especially in the case of potatoes where most vitamin C is in the skin. However, research has shown that in the specific case of carotenoids a greater proportion is absorbed from cooked vegetables than from raw vegetables.\n\nGerman research in 2003 showed significant benefits in reducing breast cancer risk when large amounts of raw vegetable matter are included in the diet. The authors attribute some of this effect to heat-labile phytonutrients. Sulforaphane, a glucosinolate breakdown product, which may be found in vegetables such as broccoli, has been shown to be protective against prostate cancer, however, much of it is destroyed when the vegetable is boiled.\n\nThe USDA has studied retention data for 16 vitamins, 8 minerals, and alcohol for approximately 290 foods for various cooking methods.\n\nIn a human epidemiological analysis by Richard Doll and Richard Peto in 1981, diet was estimated to cause a large percentage of cancers. Studies suggest that around 32% of cancer deaths may be avoidable by changes to the diet. Some of these cancers may be caused by carcinogens in food generated during the cooking process, although it is often difficult to identify the specific components in diet that serve to increase cancer risk. Many foods, such as beef steak and broccoli, contain low concentrations of both carcinogens and anticarcinogens.\n\nSeveral studies published since 1990 indicate that cooking meat at high temperature creates heterocyclic amines (HCAs), which are thought to increase cancer risk in humans. Researchers at the National Cancer Institute found that human subjects who ate beef rare or medium-rare had less than one third the risk of stomach cancer than those who ate beef medium-well or well-done. While avoiding meat or eating meat raw may be the only ways to avoid HCAs in meat fully, the National Cancer Institute states that cooking meat below creates \"negligible amounts\" of HCAs. Also, microwaving meat before cooking may reduce HCAs by 90% by reducing the time needed for the meat to be cooked at high heat. Nitrosamines are found in some food, and may be produced by some cooking processes from proteins or from nitrites used as food preservatives; cured meat such as bacon has been found to be carcinogenic, with links to colon cancer. Ascorbate, which is added to cured meat, however, reduces nitrosamine formation.\n\nResearch has shown that grilling, barbecuing and smoking meat and fish increases levels of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH). In Europe, grilled meat and smoked fish generally only contribute a small proportion of dietary PAH intake since they are a minor component of diet – most intake comes from cereals, oils and fats. However, in the US, grilled/barbecued meat is the second highest contributor of the mean daily intake of a known PAH carcinogen benzo[a]pyrene at 21% after ‘bread, cereal and grain’ at 29%.\n\nBaking, grilling or broiling food, especially starchy foods, until a toasted crust is formed generates significant concentrations of acrylamide, a known carcinogen from animal studies; its potential to cause cancer in humans at normal exposures is uncertain. Public health authorities recommend reducing the risk by avoiding overly browning starchy foods or meats when frying, baking, toasting or roasting them.\n\nCooking dairy products may reduce a protective effect against colon cancer. Researchers at the University of Toronto suggest that ingesting uncooked or unpasteurized dairy products (see also Raw milk) may reduce the risk of colorectal cancer. Mice and rats fed uncooked sucrose, casein, and beef tallow had one-third to one-fifth the incidence of microadenomas as the mice and rats fed the same ingredients cooked. This claim, however, is contentious. According to the Food and Drug Administration of the United States, health benefits claimed by raw milk advocates do not exist. \"The small quantities of antibodies in milk are not absorbed in the human intestinal tract,\" says Barbara Ingham, PhD, associate professor and extension food scientist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. \"There is no scientific evidence that raw milk contains an anti-arthritis factor or that it enhances resistance to other diseases.\"\n\nHeating sugars with proteins or fats can produce advanced glycation end products (\"glycotoxins\"). \n\nDeep fried food in restaurants may contain high level of trans fat, which is known to increase levels of low-density lipoprotein that in turn may increase risk of heart diseases and other conditions. However, many fast food chains have now switched to trans-fat-free alternatives for deep-frying.\n\nThe application of scientific knowledge to cooking and gastronomy has become known as molecular gastronomy. This is a subdiscipline of food science. Important contributions have been made by scientists, chefs and authors such as Herve This (chemist), Nicholas Kurti (physicist), Peter Barham (physicist), Harold McGee (author), Shirley Corriher (biochemist, author), Heston Blumenthal (chef), Ferran Adria (chef), Robert Wolke (chemist, author) and Pierre Gagnaire (chef).\n\nChemical processes central to cooking include the Maillard reaction – a form of non-enzymatic browning involving an amino acid, a reducing sugar and heat.\n\nHome cooking has traditionally been a process carried out informally in a home or around a communal fire, and can be enjoyed by all members of the family, although in many cultures women bear primary responsibility. Cooking is also often carried out outside of personal quarters, for example at restaurants, or schools. Bakeries were one of the earliest forms of cooking outside the home, and bakeries in the past often offered the cooking of pots of food provided by their customers as an additional service. In the present day, factory food preparation has become common, with many \"ready-to-eat\" foods being prepared and cooked in factories and home cooks using a mixture of scratch made, and factory made foods together to make a meal. The nutritional value of including more commercially prepared foods has been found to be inferior to home-made foods. Home-cooked meals tend to be healthier with fewer calories, and less saturated fat, cholesterol and sodium on a per calorie basis while providing more fiber, calcium, and iron. The ingredients are also directly sourced, so there is control over authenticity, taste, and nutritional value. The superior nutritional quality of home-cooking could therefore play a role in preventing chronic disease. Cohort studies following the elderly over 10 years show that adults who cook their own meals have significantly lower mortality, even when controlling for confounding variables.\n\n\"Home-cooking\" may be associated with comfort food, and some commercially produced foods are presented through advertising or packaging as having been \"home-cooked\", regardless of their actual origin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1060279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1060279", "title": "Coping (psychology)", "text": "Coping (psychology)\n\nIn psychology, coping means to invest own conscious effort, to solve personal and interpersonal problems, in order to try to master, minimize or tolerate stress and conflict.\n\nThe psychological coping mechanisms are commonly termed \"coping strategies\" or \"coping skills\". The term coping generally refers to adaptive (constructive) coping strategies. That is strategies which reduce stress. In contrast, other coping strategies may be coined as maladaptive, if they increase stress. Maladaptive coping is therefore also described, when looking at the outcome, as non-coping. Furthermore, the term coping generally refers to reactive coping, i.e. the coping response which follows the stressor. This differs from proactive coping, in which a coping response aims to neutralize a future stressor. Subconscious or non-conscious strategies (e.g. defense mechanisms) are generally excluded from the area of coping.\n\nThe effectiveness of the coping effort depends on the type of stress, the individual, and the circumstances. Coping responses are partly controlled by personality (habitual traits), but also partly by the social environment, particularly the nature of the stressful environment.\nHundreds of coping strategies have been identified. Classification of these strategies into a broader architecture has not been agreed upon. Common distinctions are often made between various contrasting strategies, for example: problem-focused versus emotion-focused; engagement versus disengagement; cognitive versus behavioral. Weiten for instance, identifies four types of coping strategies:\n\nAppraisal-focused strategies occur when the person modifies the way they think, for example: employing denial, or distancing oneself from the problem. People may alter the way they think about a problem by altering their goals and values, such as by seeing the humor in a situation: \"some have suggested that humor may play a greater role as a stress moderator among women than men\".\n\nPeople using problem-focused strategies try to deal with the cause of their problem. They do this by finding out information on the problem and learning new skills to manage the problem. Problem-focused coping is aimed at changing or eliminating the source of the stress. The three problem-focused coping strategies identified by Folkman and Lazarus are: taking control, information seeking, and evaluating the pros and cons.\n\nEmotion-focused strategies involve:\nEmotion-focused coping \"is oriented toward managing the emotions that accompany the perception of stress\". The five emotion-focused coping strategies identified by Folkman and Lazarus are:\nEmotion-focused coping is a mechanism to alleviate distress by minimizing, reducing, or preventing, the emotional components of a stressor. This mechanism can be applied through a variety of ways, such as:\nThe focus of this coping mechanism is to change the meaning of the stressor or transfer attention away from it. For example, reappraising tries to find a more positive meaning of the cause of the stress in order to reduce the emotional component of the stressor. Avoidance of the emotional distress will distract from the negative feelings associated with the stressor. Emotion-focused coping is well suited for stressors that seem uncontrollable (ex. a terminal illness diagnosis, or the loss of a loved one). Some mechanisms of emotion focused coping, such as distancing or avoidance, can have alleviating outcomes for a short period of time, however they can be detrimental when used over an extended period. Positive emotion-focused mechanisms, such as seeking social support, and positive re-appraisal, are associated with beneficial outcomes. Emotional approach coping is one form of emotion-focused coping in which emotional expression and processing is used to adaptively manage a response to a stressor.\n\nTypically, people use a mixture of several types of coping strategies, which may change over time. All these methods can prove useful, but some claim that those using problem-focused coping strategies will adjust better to life. Problem-focused coping mechanisms may allow an individual greater perceived control over their problem, whereas emotion-focused coping may sometimes lead to a reduction in perceived control (maladaptive coping).\n\nLazarus \"notes the connection between his idea of 'defensive reappraisals' or cognitive coping and Freud's concept of 'ego-defenses'\", coping strategies thus overlapping with a person's defense mechanisms.\n\nOne positive coping strategy, anticipating a problem, is known as \"proactive coping\". Anticipation is when one reduces the stress of some difficult challenge by anticipating what it will be like and preparing for how one is going to cope with it.\n\nTwo others are \"social coping\", such as seeking social support from others, and \"meaning-focused coping\", in which the person concentrates on deriving meaning from the stressful experience.\n\nAdequate nutrition, exercise, sleep contribute to stress management, as do physical fitness and relaxation techniques such as progressive muscle relaxation.\n\nHumor used as a positive coping strategy may have useful benefits to emotional and mental health well-being. By having a humorous outlook on life, stressful experiences can be and are often minimized. This coping strategy corresponds with positive emotional states and is known to be an indicator of mental health. Physiological processes are also influenced within the exercise of humor. For example, laughing may reduce muscle tension, increase the flow of oxygen to the blood, exercise the cardiovascular region, and produce endorphins in the body. Using humor in coping while processing through feelings can vary depending on life circumstance and individual humor styles. In regards to grief and loss in life occurrences, it has been found that genuine laughs/smiles when speaking about the loss predicted later adjustment and evoked more positive responses from other people. A person of the deceased family member may resort to making jokes of when the deceased person used to give unwanted “wet willies” (term used for when a person sticks their finger inside their mouth then inserts the finger into another person's ear) to any unwilling participant. A person might also find comedic relief with others around irrational possible outcomes for the deceased funeral service. It is also possible that humor would be used by people to feel a sense of control over a more powerless situation and used as way to temporarily escape a feeling of helplessness. Exercised humor can be a sign of positive adjustment as well as drawing support and interaction from others around the loss.\n\nWhile dealing with stress it is important to deal with your physical, mental, and social well being. One should maintain one's health and learn to relax if one finds oneself under stress. Mentally it is important to think positive thoughts, value oneself, demonstrate good time management, plan and think ahead, and express emotions. Socially one should communicate with people and seek new activities. By following these simple strategies, one will have an easier time responding to stresses in one's life.\n\nWhile adaptive coping methods improve functioning, a maladaptive coping technique will just reduce symptoms while maintaining and strengthening the disorder. Maladaptive techniques are more effective in the short term rather than long term coping process.\n\nExamples of maladaptive behavior strategies include dissociation, sensitization, safety behaviors, anxious avoidance, and escape (including self-medication).\n\nThese coping strategies interfere with the person's ability to unlearn, or break apart, the paired association between the situation and the associated anxiety symptoms. These are maladaptive strategies as they serve to maintain the disorder.\n\nDissociation is the ability of the mind to separate and compartmentalize thoughts, memories, and emotions. This is often associated with post traumatic stress syndrome.\n\nSensitization is when a person seeks to learn about, rehearse, and/or anticipate fearful events in a protective effort to prevent these events from occurring in the first place.\n\nSafety behaviors are demonstrated when individuals with anxiety disorders come to rely on something, or someone, as a means of coping with their excessive anxiety.\n\nAnxious avoidance is when a person avoids anxiety provoking situations by all means. This is the most common strategy.\n\nEscape is closely related to avoidance. This technique is often demonstrated by people who experience panic attacks or have phobias. These people want to flee the situation at the first sign of anxiety.\n\nFurther examples of coping strategies include emotional or instrumental support, self-distraction, denial, substance use, self-blame, behavioral disengagement and the use of drugs or alcohol.\n\nMany people think that meditation \"not only calms our emotions, but...makes us feel more 'together'\", as too can \"the kind of prayer in which you're trying to achieve an inner quietness and peace\".\n\nLow-effort syndrome or low-effort coping refers to the coping responses of minority groups in an attempt to fit into the dominant culture. For example, minority students at school may learn to put in only minimal effort as they believe they are being discriminated against by the dominant culture.\n\nOtto Fenichel summarized early psychoanalytic studies of coping mechanisms in children as \"a gradual substitution of actions for mere discharge reactions...[&] the development of the function of judgement\" - noting however that \"behind all active types of mastery of external and internal tasks, a readiness remains to fall back on passive-receptive types of mastery.\"\n\nIn adult cases of \"acute and more or less 'traumatic' upsetting events in the life of normal persons\", Fenichel stressed that in coping, \"in carrying out a 'work of learning' or 'work of adjustment', [s]he must acknowledge the new and less comfortable reality and fight tendencies towards regression, towards the misinterpretation of reality\", though such rational strategies \"may be mixed with relative allowances for rest and for small regressions and compensatory wish fulfillment, which are recuperative in effect\".\n\nIn the 1940s, the German Freudian psychoanalyst Karen Horney \"developed her mature theory in which individuals cope with the anxiety produced by feeling unsafe, unloved, and undervalued by disowning their spontaneous feelings and developing elaborate strategies of defence.\" She defined four so-called coping strategies to define interpersonal relations, one describing psychologically healthy individuals, the others describing neurotic states.\n\nThe healthy strategy she termed \"Moving with\" is that with which psychologically healthy people develop relationships. It involves compromise. In order to move with, there must be communication, agreement, disagreement, compromise, and decisions. The three other strategies she described – \"Moving toward\", \"Moving against\" and \"Moving away\" – represented neurotic, unhealthy strategies people utilize in order to protect themselves.\n\nHorney investigated these patterns of neurotic needs (compulsive attachments). Everyone needs these things, but the neurotics need them more than the normal person. The neurotics might need these more because of difficulties within their lives. If the neurotic does not experience these needs, he or she will experience anxiety. The ten needs are:\n\n\nIn Compliance, also known as \"Moving toward\" or the \"Self-effacing solution\", the individual moves towards those perceived as a threat to avoid retribution and getting hurt, \"making any sacrifice, no matter how detrimental.\" The argument is, \"If I give in, I won't get hurt.\" This means that: if I give everyone I see as a potential threat whatever they want, I won't be injured (physically or emotionally). This strategy includes neurotic needs one, two, and three.\n\nIn Withdrawal, also known as \"Moving away\" or the \"Resigning solution\", individuals distance themselves from anyone perceived as a threat to avoid getting hurt – \"the 'mouse-hole' attitude ... the security of unobtrusiveness.\" The argument is, \"If I do not let anyone close to me, I won't get hurt.\" A neurotic, according to Horney desires to be distant because of being abused. If they can be the extreme introvert, no one will ever develop a relationship with them. If there is no one around, nobody can hurt them. These \"moving away\" people fight personality, so they often come across as cold or shallow. This is their strategy. They emotionally remove themselves from society. Included in this strategy are neurotic needs three, nine, and ten.\n\nIn Aggression, also known as the \"Moving against\" or the \"Expansive solution\", the individual threatens those perceived as a threat to avoid getting hurt. Children might react to parental in-differences by displaying anger or hostility. This strategy includes neurotic needs four, five, six, seven, and eight.\n\nRelated to the work of Karen Horney, public administration scholars developed a classification of coping by frontline workers when working with clients (see also the work of Michael Lipsky on street-level bureaucracy). This coping classification is focused on the behavior workers can display towards clients when confronted with stress. They show that during public service delivery there are three main families of coping:\n\n- Moving \"towards\" clients: Coping by helping clients in stressful situations. An example is a teacher working overtime to help students.\n- Moving \"away from\" clients: Coping by avoiding meaningful interactions with clients in stressful situations. An example is a public servant stating \"the office is very busy today, please return tomorrow.\" \n- Moving \"against\" clients: Coping by confronting clients. For instance, teachers can cope with stress when working with students by imposing very rigid rules, such as no cellphone use in class and sending everyone to the office when they use a cellphone. Furthermore, aggression towards clients is also included here.\n\nIn their systematic review of 35 years of the literature, the scholars found that the most often used family is moving \"towards\" clients (43% of all coping fragments). Moving \"away from\" clients was found in 38% of all coping fragments and Moving \"against\" clients in 19%.\n\nIn 1937, the psychoanalyst (as well as a physician, psychologist, and psychiatrist) Heinz Hartmann marked it as the evolution of ego psychology by publishing his paper, \"Me\" (which was later translated into English in 1958, titled, \"The Ego and the Problem of Adaptation\"). Hartmann focused on the adaptive progression of the ego \"through the mastery of new demands and tasks\". In fact, according to his 'adaptive point of view', once infants were born they have the ability to be able to cope with the demands of their surroundings. In his wake, ego psychology further stressed \"the development of the personality and of 'ego-strengths'...adaptation to social realities\".\n\nEmotional intelligence has stressed the importance of \"the capacity to soothe oneself, to shake off rampant anxiety, gloom, or irritability...People who are poor in this ability are constantly battling feelings of distress, while those who excel in it can bounce back far more quickly from life's setbacks and upsets\". From this perspective, \"the art of soothing ourselves is a fundamental life skill; some psychoanalytic thinkers, such as John Bowlby and D. W. Winnicott see this as the most essential of all psychic tools.\"\n\nObject relations theory has examined the childhood development both of \"[i]ndependent coping...capacity for self-soothing\", and of \"[a]ided coping. Emotion-focused coping in infancy is often accomplished through the assistance of an adult.\"\n\nGender differences in coping strategies are the ways in which men and women differ in managing psychological stress. There is evidence that males often develop stress due to their careers, whereas females often encounter stress due to issues in interpersonal relationships. Early studies indicated that \"there were gender differences in the sources of stressors, but gender differences in coping were relatively small after controlling for the source of stressors\"; and more recent work has similarly revealed \"small differences between women's and men's coping strategies when studying individuals in similar situations.\"\n\nIn general, such differences as exist indicate that women tend to employ emotion-focused coping and the \"tend-and-befriend\" response to stress, whereas men tend to use problem-focused coping and the \"fight-or-flight\" response, perhaps because societal standards encourage men to be more individualistic, while women are often expected to be interpersonal. An alternative explanation for the aforementioned differences involves genetic factors. The degree to which genetic factors and social conditioning influence behavior, is the subject of ongoing debate.\n\nHormones also play a part in stress management. Cortisol, a stress hormone, was found to be elevated in males during stressful situations. In females, however, cortisol levels were decreased in stressful situations, and instead, an increase in limbic activity was discovered. Many researchers believe that these results underlie the reasons why men administer a fight-or-flight reaction to stress; whereas, females have a tend-and-befriend reaction. The \"fight-or-flight\" response activates the sympathetic nervous system in the form of increased focus levels, adrenaline, and epinephrine. Conversely, the \"tend-and-befriend\" reaction refers to the tendency of women to protect their offspring and relatives. Although these two reactions support a genetic basis to differences in behavior, one should not assume that in general females cannot implement \"fight-or-flight\" behavior or that males cannot implement \"tend-and-befriend\" behavior.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50996910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50996910", "title": "Costache Aristia", "text": "Costache Aristia\n\nCostache or Kostake Aristia (; born Constantin Chiriacos Aristia; , \"Konstantinos Kyriakos Aristias\"; transitional Cyrillic: Коⲛстантiⲛꙋ Aрiстia, \"Constantinŭ Aristia\"; 1800 – April 18, 1880) was a Wallachian-born poet, actor and translator, also noted for his activities as a soldier, schoolteacher, and philanthropist. A member of the Greek colony, his adolescence and early youth coincided with the peak of Hellenization in both Danubian Principalities. He first appeared on stage at \"Cișmeaua Roșie\" in Bucharest, and became a protege of Lady Rallou. She sponsored his voyage to France, where Aristia became an imitator of François-Joseph Talma.\n\nUpon his return, Aristia took up the cause of Greek nationalism, joining the Filiki Eteria and flying the \"flag of liberty\" for the Sacred Band. He fought on the Wallachian front during the Greek War of Independence, and was probably present for the defeat at Drăgășani. He escaped the country and moved between various European countries, earning protection from the Earl of Guilford, before returning to Bucharest as a private tutor for the Ghica family. Aristia used this opportunity to teach drama and direct plays, and thus became one of the earliest contributors to Romanian theater. A trendsetter in art and fashion, he preserved his reputation even as Wallachians came to reject Greek domination. He adapted himself to their cultural Francization, publishing textbooks for learning French, and teaching both French and Demotic Greek at Saint Sava College.\n\nUnder the \"Regulamentul Organic\" regime, Aristia blended Eterist tropes and Romanian nationalism. He became a follower of Ion Heliade Rădulescu, and helped set up the Philharmonic Society, which produced a new generation of Wallachian actors—including Costache Caragiale and Ioan Curie. He contributed to the effort of modernizing the language, though his own proposals in this field were widely criticized and ultimately rejected. Aristia was made popular by his translation of Vittorio Alfieri's \"Saul\", which doubled as a nationalist manifesto, and earned accolades for his rendition of the \"Iliad\"; however, he was derided for eulogizing Prince Gheorghe Bibescu. He also contributed to cultural life in the Kingdom of Greece, where, in 1840, he published his only work of drama.\n\nAristia contributed to the Wallachian Revolution of 1848, when he served as leader of the National Guard and arrested rival conservatives. During the backlash, he was himself a prisoner of the Ottoman Empire, and was finally expelled from Wallachia. He returned in 1851, having reconciled with the conservative regime of Barbu Dimitrie Știrbei, and remained a citizen of the United Principalities. He kept out of politics for the remainder of his life, concentrating on his work at Saint Sava, and then at the University of Bucharest, and on producing another version of the \"Iliad\". Among his last published works are Bible translations, published under contract with the British and Foreign Bible Society.\n\nAristia was born in Bucharest, the Wallachian capital, in 1800. The date was pushed back to 1797 in some sources, but Aristia's relatives denied that this was accurate. At the time, Wallachia and Moldavia (the two Danubian Principalities) were autonomous entities of the Ottoman Empire; Greek cultural dominance and Hellenization, represented primarily by Phanariotes, were at their \"great acme\". Aristia's own father was Greek, and Costache himself entered Bucharest's Greek School during the reign of Prince John Caradja, a Phanariote. His teachers there included philologist Constantin Vardalah. Immersed in Greek culture, he had virtually no understanding of written Romanian until 1828.\n\nBefore graduating, Aristia debuted as an actor at \"Cișmeaua Roșie\". According to memoirist and researcher Dimitrie Papazoglu, this pioneering theater was actually managed by \"director Aristias\". At that stage, acting in Wallachia was an all-male enterprise, and Aristia appeared as a female lead, in drag. The \"Cișmeaua\" troupe was sponsored by Caradja's daughter, Lady Rallou. She was impressed by Aristia's talent, and she sent him abroad, to the Kingdom of France, where Aristia studied under François-Joseph Talma. Researcher Ioan Massoff nonetheless notes that Aristia was never a member of Talma's acting class, but only a regular spectator to his shows, and after that his imitator. \nThe Aristias rallied to the cause of Greek nationalism shortly before the Greek uprising of 1821. Costache joined Alexander Ypsilantis's secret society, the Filiki Eteria, which engineered the nationalist expedition in Moldavia and Wallachia. Aristia awaited the Eterists in Bucharest, which had been occupied by troops loyal to Tudor Vladimirescu, who led a parallel uprising of Romanians. In mid March, Greeks in Bucharest, led by Giorgakis Olympios, pledged to support Ypsilantis rather than Vladimirescu. The event was marked by a large display of Greek nationalism in downtown Bucharest, the details of which were committed to writing by Constantin D. Aricescu from his interview with Aristia. The actor carried the \"flag of liberty\", an Eterist symbol showing Constantine the Great and Helena, alongside a cross and the slogan \"In this, conquer\"; the obverse showed a phoenix rising from its ashes. The ceremony ended with the banner being planted on the Bellu gate, announced to the crowds as prefiguring the future reconquest of Byzantium. Reportedly, \"the flag that was carried by Mr. Aristia\" was later also adopted by Sava Fochianos, who deserted to Ypsilantis' Sacred Band alongside the Bucharest garrison.\n\nIn April–August, Ypsilantis' forces were encircled and crushed by the Ottoman Army. According to one account, Aristia fought alongside the Sacred Band of Wallachia in their final stand at Drăgășani, before receiving sanctuary in the Austrian Empire. He eventually settled in the Papal States, where he reportedly continued his education and became familiar with Italian theater. Performing in charity shows for destitute children, in or around 1824 he met Louis Dupré, who drew his portrait. Also at Rome, Aristia met the Earl of Guilford, and later claimed to have received his quasi-parental protection. Meanwhile, Costache's actual father had enlisted to fight for the First Hellenic Republic, and was later killed at the Siege of Missolonghi.\n\nReturning to his native Wallachia, Aristia found work as a private tutor for young members of the Ghica family—whose leader, Grigore IV Ghica, had taken the Wallachian throne in 1822. His patron, Smărăndița Ghica, also asked him to stage Neoclassical plays in Greek at her Bucharest home. Regulars included the future politician and memoirist, Ion Ghica, who was also directly tutored by Aristia. According to Ghica, Aristia reserved the title roles for himself, while Smărăndița and Scarlat Ghica had supporting roles; their costumes were improvised from bed linen and old dresses. Ghica describes his teacher as an \"epic\" and \"fiery\" character, noting in passing that Aristia was also promoting the modern Western fashion, including the tailcoat, having discarded all Ottoman clothing after 1822.\n\nThis period also witnessed the first coordination between Aristia and a Wallachian writer, Ion Heliade Rădulescu. Inspired by the latter, in 1825 Aristia produced and performed in Molière's \"George Dandin\", turning it into an anti-Phanariote manifesto. In 1825, Aristia was in British Corfu, performing in his own Greek rendition of Voltaire's \"Mahomet\". Sponsored by Guilford, he finally graduated from the Ionian Academy. Returning to Paris, Costache also completed an hymn celebrating the Hellenic Republic. It was first published by Firmin Didot in 1829.\n\nThe anti-Ottoman trend received endorsement following the Russo-Turkish War of 1828–1829, which placed Wallachia and Moldavia under a modernizing regime, defined by the \"Regulamentul Organic\" constitution. His hymn was published as a brochure by Heliade's newspaper \"Curierul Românesc\", which thus hinted at Romanian national emancipation. Aristia was initially threatened by the overwhelming prestige of French culture, which marginalized Greek influence: he reportedly lost students to the new French school, founded by Jean Alexandre Vaillant. However, he compensated by exploiting his own French literary background. He is thus credited as a contributor to Heliade's Romanian version of \"Mahomet\", which appeared in 1831. Despite his acculturation, Aristia continued to publicize the staples of \"Eterist dramatic repertoire\", which included both \"Mahomet\" and Lord Byron's \"Siege of Corinth\".\n\nFrom November 1832, headmaster Petrache Poenaru employed Aristia to teach French and Demotic Greek at Saint Sava College. He also gave informal classes in drama and had a series of student productions involving Ion Emanuel Florescu and C. A. Rosetti; during these, Rosetti \"revealed himself as a very gifted thespian\". Aristia also discovered and promoted a Bucharest-born tragedian, Ioan Tudor Curie. He continued to have an influence on fashion: most students, above all Curie and Costache Mihăileanu, imitated their teacher's every mannerism. Because of Aristia, a generation of actors \"trilled and swagged\", wore their hair long, and put on \"garish\" neckties.\n\nBy 1833, Aristia had become a regular in liberal circles, meeting with his pupil Ghica and other young intellectuals. Together with Heliade, they established a Philharmonic Society. He organized classes in acting and declamation at the Dramatic School, a branch of the Philharmonic Society. This was the first learning institution for professional acting to exist in the Balkans. From November 1, 1835, Aristia and his mentor Heliade were editors of its mouthpiece, \"Gazeta Teatrului\". That year, he also published a textbook on French grammar, reprinted in 1839 as \"Prescurtare de grammatică françozească\". It was closely based on Charles Pierre Chapsal and François-Joseph-Michel Noël's \"Nouvelle Grammaire Française\". He followed up with a series of French language courses, including a phrase book and a translation of J. Wilm's book of moral tales.\n\nHis subsequent work was a translation of Vittorio Alfieri's \"Saul\" and \"Virginia\", initially commissioned and produced by the same Society. It was never printed, but served as the basis for a show on December 1, 1836. He prepared, but never managed to print, Molière's \"Forced Marriage\". In 1837, he also published his version of Homer's \"Iliad\", which included his short biography of the author. Wallachia's ruler Alexandru II Ghica was enthusiastic about the work, and presented Aristia with congratulations, expressed for all his subjects. This is sometimes described as the first \"Iliad\" translation into Romanian, though some evidence suggests that Moldavia's Alecu Beldiman had produced another one ca. 1820.\n\n\"Saul\" was the Society's first major success: it doubled as a patriotic play, with messages that theatergoers understood to be subversively aimed at occupation by the Russian Empire. Russian envoys took offense, and the production was suspended. Its noticeable opposition to Alexandru II, and financial setbacks, put an end to the Philharmonic Society during the early months of 1837. Aristia's pupils attempted to take up similar projects, but generally failed to build themselves actual careers. An exception was Costache Caragiale, who was able to find employment at Botoșani in Moldavia. By May 1837, Aristia himself had traveled to Moldavia, accompanying Heliade on a networking trip and hoping to coordinate efforts between dissenting intellectuals from both Principalities.\n\nThe Ghica regime continued to bestow accolades upon the poet. In 1838, he was received into the boyar nobility after being created a \"Serdar\"; in January 1836, he had married the Romanian Lucsița Mărgăritescu. His father in law, \"Serdar\" Ioan Mărgăritescu, granted the couple a vineyard in Giulești and various assets worth 35,000 thaler. Curie was recalled to play the lead in \"Saul\" during December 1837, and acted with such pathos that he fainted. Doctors intervened to draw blood, prompting Heliade to remark that Curie had \"shed his blood for the honor of Romanian theater\". Although the play could go back into production from January 1838, and also taken up by Caragiale's troupe in Moldavia, Heliade and Aristia's activity was interrupted by major setbacks. Later that year, the conservative schoolteacher Ioan Maiorescu published a detailed critique of Wallachia's educational system, prompting Aristia to take up its defense. By 1839, Prince Ghica had engineered Heliade's political marginalization; the only two Heliade loyalists were Poenaru and Aristia.\n\nAround that time, Aristia and Curie went on a theatrical tour of the Kingdom of Greece. Curie opted not to return to his homeland, signing for the French Foreign Legion; he later settled in Moldavia. In 1840, a printing press in Athens put out Aristia's only original work of drama, the tragedy \"Αρμόδιος και Ἀριστογείτων\" (\"Harmodius and Aristogeiton\"). He returned to Wallachia before October 1843, and served as co-editor of Poenaru's newspaper, \"Învățătorul Satului\". This was the first publication specifically aimed at educating Wallachia's peasants, and was distributed by rural schools.\n\nThose years also witnessed his enthusiasm for political change in Wallachia: also in 1843, he published \"Prințul român\" (\"The Romanian Prince\"), which comprises encomiums for Gheorghe Bibescu, winner of the recent princely election. This was followed in 1847 by a similar work on Marițica Bibescu, published as \"Doamna Maria\" (\"Lady Maria\"). In 1845, he had also produced a third and expanded edition of his work on French grammar. He was nevertheless struggling to make ends meet. By 1847, his two Bucharest homes had been taken by his creditors, and Lucsița had prevented his access to her dowry.\n\nDespite his participation in the princely cult, Aristia was being driven into the camp opposing Bibescu's relative conservatism. He now \"totally integrated\" within the Romanian national movement, emerging as a member of the liberal conspiratorial society, \"Frăția\". Historian Mircea Birtz hypothesizes that he was also initiated into the Romanian Freemasonry, but notes that the organization itself never claimed him. According to historian Dumitru Popovici, Aristia was aware of how his non-Romanianness clashed with revolutionary ideals; like Caragiale and Cezar Bolliac, he compensated with \"grandiloquent gestures\" that would display his affinities with locals.\n\nThe poet reached his political prominence in June 1848, with the momentary victory of the Wallachian Revolution. During the original uprising, he agitated among Bucharest's citizens, reciting \"revolutionary hymns\". Following Bibescu's ouster, the Provisional Government established a National Guard, and organized a contest to select its commander. Papazoglu recalls that Aristia was the first Guard commander, elected by the Bucharest citizenry with an acclamation on the field of Filaret. Other accounts suggest that Aristia presented himself as a candidate, but lost to a more conservative figure, Scarlat Crețulescu, and was only appointed a regular member for one Bucharest's five defense committees. On July 7 (Old Style: June 25), Crețulescu resigned, freeing his seat for Aristia.\n\nAccording to Papazoglu, entire sections of the National Guard existed only on paper. Those that did exist comprised regular members of the city guilds in their work uniforms, who amused the populace with their poor military training. During his period as a revolutionary officer, Aristia himself helped carry out the clampdown on Bibescu loyalists. According to Heliade, the reactionary leader Ioan Solomon was captured by \"Constantin Aristias, a colonel in the national guard, who enjoyed the People's great confidence\". Heliade claims that Aristia saved Solomon from a near-lynching, ordering his protective imprisonment at Cernica. Another target of revolutionary vengeance was Grigore Lăcusteanu, whose memoirs recall an encounter with \"Aristia (hitherto a demented acting coach) and one Apoloni, armed to their teeth, their hats festooned with feathers.\" Lăcusteanu also claims that he easily tricked Aristia into allowing him to lodge with a friend, Constantin A. Crețulescu, instead of being moved into an actual prison. \n\nShortly after, Aristia resigned and was replaced with N. Teologu. He remained enlisted with the Guard, helping its new commander with the reorganization. According to one later record, he also served as a revolutionary Prefect of Ilfov County (which included Bucharest). In September, the Revolution took a more radical turn: at a public rally on September 18 (O. S.: September 6), \"Regulamentul Organic\" and \"Arhondologia\" (the register of titles and ranks) were publicly burned. Aristia and Bolliac participated in this event and gave \"firebrand speeches.\"\n\nThis evolution was finally curbed by a new Ottoman intervention, which ended the Revolution altogether. As leader of the occupation force, Mehmed Fuad Pasha ordered a roundup of revolutionaries. Aristia was imprisoned at Cotroceni Monastery, part of a prison population which also included Bolliac, Rosetti, Nicolae Bălcescu, Ion C. Brătianu, Ștefan Golescu, Iosafat Snagoveanu, and various others; people less implicated in the events, such as Dimitrie Ghica, were released back into society. On September 24, Fuad and Constantin Cantacuzino signed an order to banish Aristia and other rebels from Wallachia. The early leg of his deportation journey was a boat trip up the Danube. Aristia wanted to pass the time by reciting from \"Saul\", before being struck down by his Turkish guard—having \"no notion of the dramatic art\", he feared that Aristia had gone insane. According to one account, Aristia was due to be executed alongside other radicals, but got hold of the \"firman\" and was able to modify its text before it reached his would-be executioners. \n\nA committed supporter of Heliade's post-revolutionary faction, Aristia successively lived in Corona (Brașov), Paris, Istanbul, and Athens. He took Heliade's part in his conflict with fellow exile Bălcescu, accusing the latter of having squandered funds collected for the revolutionary cause. Aristia refused an offer of naturalization by Greece, and instead made ample efforts to be allowed back into Wallachia—Bibescu's brother, Barbu Dimitrie Știrbei, was by then the country's reigning Prince. By July 1850, Aristia had written several letters to both Știrbei and his Ottoman supervisors asking that he and his wife be forgiven. These letters show that he had buried two children and had one living daughter, named Aristia (or Aristeea) Aristia, as \"my only fortune in this world.\" Știrbei gave his approval, and on September 13 a decree was issued allowing him and his family to cross the border; they did so in 1851. They moved back into their home at Giulești, where they began tending to their vineyard and opened a number of sand mines. The propoerty increased from various purchases, but Aristia donated some of the plots to low-income families. \n\nAristia returned to print in 1853 with a series of moral tales, \"Săteanul creștin\" (\"The Christian Villager\"). It carried a dedication to the Princess-consort, Elisabeta Cantacuzino-Știrbei. Becoming a \"Caimacam\" (Regent) in 1856, after the Crimean War had put an end to Russian interventions, Alexandru II Ghica made Aristia a State Librarian. Aristia continued to be active during Știrbei's second reign. \"Săteanul creștin\" was followed in 1857 by a first volume from Plutarch's \"Parallel Lives\", including a biographical essay by Dominique Ricard. Also that year, after being contacted by the British and Foreign Bible Society (BFBS), Aristia began work on a Romanian Bible, for which he used the name \"K. Aristias\". He used the \"latest Greek edition\", verified against the Hebrew original. Three volumes, comprising all text between Genesis and Isaiah, was published in 1859 as \"Biblia Sacra\". In parallel, he rejected his own translation of the \"Iliad\", and produced a new version, ultimately published in 1858.\n\nIn January 1859, Wallachia was effectively merged with Moldavia into the United Principalities, as the nucleus of modern Romania. Under this new regime, Aristia was again confirmed as a teacher of French and Greek at Saint Sava. That year, he published his final original work of verse, \"Cântare\". Written from the point of view of children in an orphanage, it honored the musician and philanthropist Elisa Blaremberg. His status was declining: by the 1850s, his and Talma's style of acting were being purged from theaters by a more realistic school, whose leading exponents were Matei Millo and Mihail Pascaly. In 1860, the BFBS ended its contract with Aristia, who was demanding ever-increasing funds, and whose libertine lifestyle was viewed as distasteful by local missionaries. \n\nIn 1864, Costache and Lucsița Aristia were living on Stejar Street. They declared themselves \"of Hellenic origin, of Romanian birth, [and] of Christian Orthodox religion\". Following the transformation of Saint Sava, Aristia was assigned a chair at the new University of Bucharest, but resigned in favor of his pupil Epaminonda Francudi. In the 1870s part of his Giulești vineyard was taken over by the Romanian state. Aristia was largely inactive during the final two decades of his life. One exception was an 1867 article for \"Ateneul Român\", where he campaigned for the adaptation of Romanian poetry to classical hexameters. \n\nCompletely blind from 1872, Aristia dictated his final poem, written in memory of philanthropist Ana Davila, accidentally poisoned in 1874. From 1876, the Aristias rented a home on Sfinții Voievozi Street, west of Podul Mogoșoaiei, where he hosted a literary salon. He died in that building, on April 18, 1880, and was buried at Sfânta Vineri Cemetery. The state treasury provided 1000 lei for his \"very austere\" funeral. The poet was survived by two daughters: Aristia Aristia married in 1864 the biologist Dimitrie Ananescu; the younger Alexandrina was from 1871 the wife of Alexandru Radu Vardalah.\n\nLucsița sold off the remainder of her husband's vineyard and mines to an entrepreneur named Viting, but her inheritors litigated the matter until ca. 1940. By then, the family house had been demolished to build a hospital for the State Railways Company, though the general area was still known as \"Gropile lui Aristia\" (\"Aristia's Pits\"). His archive was mostly lost, as were most copies of \"Biblia Sacra\", but his \"Saul\" was recovered and partly published by scholar Ramiro Ortiz in 1916. By 1919, the boys' school on Bucharest's Francmasonă (or Farmazonă) Street had been renamed after the poet.\n\nAristia was widely seen as an important figure in the early modernizing stages of Romanian literature. Researcher Walter Puchner argues that Aristia was personally responsible for unifying the early traditions of modern Greek and Romanian theater. A similar point is made by comparatist Cornelia Papacostea-Danielopolu, according to whom Aristia's activity in Greece \"revived theatrical productions during the revolutionary period\", while his work with the Ghica children signified the \"origin of modern Romanian theater.\" Philologist Federico Donatiello notes that Heliade and Aristia had a \"keen interest\" in transposing the theatrical canon of the Age of Enlightenment into Romanian adaptations. Despite Aristia's Neoclassical references, literary historian George Călinescu lists him as one of Wallachia's first Romantic poets—alongside Heliade, Rosetti, Vasile Cârlova, Grigore Alexandrescu, and Grigore Pleșoianu. Theatrologist Florin Tornea also describes Aristia's acing as \"murky [and] romantic\".\n\nWhile his talents as an animator garnered praise, his lyrical work was a topic of debate and scandal. Early on, his poetry Greek raised a political issue. Writing in 1853, philologist Alexandre Timoni noted that Aristia's hymn to Greece \"lacked inspiration\", but nonetheless had a \"remarkable style.\" Dedicated to Adamantios Korais, this poem called on the great powers to intervene and rescue the country from Ottoman subjection. He produced the image of Greece as a source of civilization, a sun around which all other countries revolved as \"planets\". According to Timoni, it was an unfortunate choice of words: \"it is this new kind of sun which, for all its splendor, rotates around [the planets].\" Aristia's other work in Greek, \"Αρμόδιος και Ἀριστογείτων\", expanded upon a lyrical fragment from the work of Andreas Kalvos, and similarly alluded to Greek liberation; it was dedicated to the Eterist Georgios Leventis.\n\nAristia wrote during the modernization of the Romanian vernacular, but before the definition of standard literary language and Latin-based alphabet. In addition to being politically divisive, Aristia's version of \"Saul\" was stylistically controversial. Its language was defended with an erudite chronicle by Heliade himself, and was much treasured by the aspiring Moldavian novelist, Constantin Negruzzi. Aristia, who declared himself interested in rendering the language particular to the \"pontiffs of poetry\", innovated the Romanian lexis. \"Saul\" had a mixture of archaic terms, especially from Christian sermons, and new borrowings from the other Romance languages. At this stage, Aristia focused on accuracy and precision, and refrained from adhering to Heliade's more heavily Italienized idiom; his version of the Romanian Cyrillic alphabet was also simplified, with the removal of any superfluous characters. According to Călinescu, the end result was still somewhat prolix, and the vocabulary \"bizarre\", mainly because \"Aristia has not mastered Romanian\".\n\nLiterary historian N. Roman dismisses \"Prințul român\" as \"confusing and embarrassing verse\". In \"pompous style\", it depicted the minutiae of Bibescu's coronation, and defined Bibescu as the paragon of patriotism, on par with Theseus, Lycurgus of Sparta, Marcus Furius Camillus, and Attila. Aristia expected the book to be known and praised by his Moldavian colleagues, to whom he sent free copies. Instead, \"Prințul român\" was \"mercilessly\" panned by the celebrated Moldavian poet, Vasile Alecsandri, in an 1844 review for \"Propășirea\".\n\nThe first drafts of the \"Iliad\" in Aristia's interpretation were criticized for their coinage of composite words, yet, as scholar Gheorghe Bogdan-Duică notes, his applied talents \"did wonders\" for advancing the Romanian literary effort. His final version is viewed as \"unintelligible\" to more modern readers, \"in a language that is new, harmonious, enchanting, but is not Romanian.\" Călinescu sees Aristia's text as a \"masterpiece in extravagance\", a \"caricature-like answer\" to more professional translations by Nikolay Gnedich and Johann Heinrich Voss. It was criticized on such grounds by Heliade himself, who \"still preserved his common sense.\" \n\nAristia's later involvement in Christian literature was also touched by controversy, particularly regarding its depiction of Longinus as both a Romanian and the \"first Christian\". Scholar Mihail Kogălniceanu identified this as a \"maniacal\" exaggeration which \"does not befit a Romanian\", and which was prone to make nationalism look ridiculous. Aristia's project in Bible translation may have been inspired by Heliade's earlier attempts. According to Birtz, he refrained from following Heliade's heretical speculation, and was thus deemed palatable by the Wallachian Orthodox Church.\n"}
{"id": "27903487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27903487", "title": "Dance education", "text": "Dance education\n\nDance education is the transferring of dance performance skills and knowledge of dance to students through teaching and training, or acquiring such knowledge and skills through research.\n\nIn general, a dance education curriculum is designed to impart dance performance skills, or knowledge of dance, or both to students. Knowledge-oriented curricula may cover any of a diverse range of topics, including dance notation, human anatomy, physics, dance history, and cultural aspects of dance.\n\nA curriculum may involve the study of one or more dance genres, including formal genres such as ballet, ballroom, contemporary, jazz, Latin, and tap dance, and informal and social genres such as line, freestyle, and sequence dancing.\n\nProfessional and vocational dance education is offered by both public and private institutions. Private institutions, which are commonly known as dance schools or dance colleges, are typically focused on dance education, whereas public institutions usually cover a broad range of topics. Examples of private institutions include the Royal Ballet School and the School of American Ballet.\n\nMany public and private universities and colleges offer minor programs in dance, or major programs with academic degrees such as Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Fine Arts, and Master of Fine Arts in dance. Some public secondary education institutions offer comprehensive dance education curricula. For example, Jefferson High School (Portland, Oregon) offers concentrated vocational dance education in conjunction with its pre-professional dance company, The Jefferson Dancers.\n\n"}
{"id": "17405822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17405822", "title": "Education Finance and Policy", "text": "Education Finance and Policy\n\nEducation Finance and Policy is a peer-reviewed academic journal addressing public policy developments affecting educational institutions. Topics covered by the journal include school accountability, education standards, teacher compensation, instructional policy, higher education productivity and finance, and special education. \"Education Finance and Policy\" was founded in 2005 and is published online and in hard copy by the MIT Press and the American Education Finance Association. It is also indexed with EconLit.\n\n"}
{"id": "18112706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18112706", "title": "Education in Anguilla", "text": "Education in Anguilla\n\nEducation in Anguilla is compulsory between the ages of 5 and 17. In 1998, the gross primary enrollment rate was 100.7 percent, and the net primary enrollment rate was 98.9 percent. The government has collaborated with UNESCO to develop an Education for All plan that aims to raise educational achievement levels, improve access to quality special education services and provide human resource training for teachers and education managers.\n\nThere is a single library, the Edison L. Hughes Education & Library Complex of the Anguilla Public Library.\n\nArea churches operate the preschools. There are six government primary schools, one government secondary school, and two private schools.\n\nGovernment primary schools:\n the government primary schools had about 1,460 students in total.\n\nThe government secondary school is Albena Lake Hodge Comprehensive School in The Valley.\n\nPrivate schools:\n\nA branch of the Saint James School of Medicine was established in 2011 in Anguilla. It is a private, for-profit medical school headquartered in Park Ridge, Illinois.\n\n"}
{"id": "734698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=734698", "title": "Education in East Germany", "text": "Education in East Germany\n\nEducation in the German Democratic Republic (East Germany) was a high priority for the communist government, and was compulsory for 10 years from age six onwards.\n\nThere were state run crèches, kindergartens, polytechnic schools, extended secondary schools, vocational training and universities.\n\nAs almost all East German parents (85%) worked outside of the home, there was a significant need for childcare services. East German crèches (\"Kinderkrippen\") were for children up to age three. Crèches often were next to kindergarten buildings. There was even a time for young East German women to serve or volunteer in crèches in order to bring their own children up well.\n\nMany crèches and polytechnic schools had their own doctors and dentists on site.\n\nMany crèches were built during the post-Second World War period, when many new buildings were constructed in East Germany. They were often part of residential blocks so parents could pick their children up without having to travel long distances to and from home.\n\nMany factories and collective farms also had their own crèches.\n\nOverall, the crèches provided places for 80% of East German children, in several urban regions the coverage rate was 99%. The fee was 27.50 East German marks per child per month for full day care. Most crèches were open from 6 am to 6 pm.\n\nUnlike West Germany, East Germany accomplished large-scale education reform and introduced a dense network of high-standard education facilities, especially kindergartens. A unique characteristic of East German kindergartens was the strong educational background of these institutions, even compared to today's kindergartens in Germany. Children from age three to six learned to interact with other children, got used to a stable daily routine and were introduced to the idea of learning.\nThe children stayed together in the same group with the same group educator during the three years. The groups were called the little group (\"kleine Gruppe\") for the young children of the age of three, the middle group (\"mittlere Gruppe\") for the children of the age of four and the big group (\"große Gruppe\") for the older children of the age of five.\n\nTwo times a day there were lesson-like pre school activities (\"Beschäftigungen\") which all children had to participate in. These activities were planned by the group educator and lasted 20 minutes in the little group, 25 minutes in the middle group and 30 minutes in the big group. The contents of the activities were regulated nationwide by a uniform teaching plan and included German language and speech, children's literature, mathematics, introduction to the socialist life (visiting factories, traffic education, cultural life, introduction to important professions), introduction to natural and scientific phenomena (weather, seasons, sky, stars, rocks etc.), music, sports, artistic and constructive handicrafts and esteeming pieces of art.\n\nThere was no teaching of reading, writing or arithmetic, but the fundamental concepts were taught to develop intellectual and motor skills. For instance, introduction to set theory within the numbers up to 10, counting up to 20, handling of quantities, crafts and motor skills exercises to prepare the handwriting, the handling of pencils, scissors, fabrics and glue, and other skills.\n\nChildren were also encouraged to take an active role in the running of their kindergartens. Children often served each other meals and helped keep the kindergarten clean and tidy.\n\nThere were no fees charged for the full-day care in kindergartens and there were enough places for 94% to 99% of East German children.\n\nThe polytechnic secondary school, abbreviation POS for \"Polytechnische Oberschule\", was developed from 1957 to 1958 and established in 1959. The POS focused strongly on German language, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, astronomy, physical geography, sports, history, political education and of course, technology-related theoretical and practical work, including gardening, woodwork, metal work. Religion was not taught in school, but could be learned in the respective religious community outside of school. Instead of a comprehensive school with primary education followed by secondary education, the POS restructured the classic education process completely by establishing a systemic curriculum which expanded the concepts of secondary education into the lower classes. For instance in mathematics, handling of variables, math text problems with a multi-level solution, a fully developed embedded course in geometry, the introduction to vectors, the handling and solving of simple equations etc. were taught from the beginning of the first grade. But nevertheless other subjects like arts, music and so forth were not neglected but emphasised to be important for an all-around, gapless general education.\nOne lesson lasted 45 minutes and students went to school six days a week. On Saturdays, there were approximately four to five lessons. The Ministry of Education determined a table of lessons (\"Stundentafel\") which expressed the ideas of the curriculum by naming the subjects that were believed to be crucial for a modern general education together with the number of weekly lessons for every single subject. The table of lessons fragmented in two parts, the compulsory teaching (\"obligatorischer Unterricht\") and the elective teaching (\"fakultativer Unterricht\"). Later a third component was introduced, the optionally compulsory teaching (\"wahlweise obligatorischer Unterricht\").\n\nTogether with the introduction of the POS grading at schools was reorganized as well.\n\nSchool started early, often 7 am or 7.30 am.\n\nThe POS was designed as a reliable all-day school (\"verläßliche Tagesschule\"), which means the compulsory lessons took place in the morning and the timetable for each class was organised in a way that there should not be any free periods while classes should end at the same time every day. Therefore, by allocating sufficient ressouces to the education system, East Germany employed a high number of teachers and educators, so the average number of students per class lessened from 26 in the fifties to 19 and less in the seventies, the high number of compulsory lessons were evenly spread throughout the six schooldays of the week, there was de facto no loss of class time because of ill teachers or shortage of teachers, the compulsory teaching was finished around noon and the afternoon was free for a variety of optional activities like elective teaching, study groups, project groups, children's sports and organised afternoon care for students in the lower classes.\n\nThe beginning of the school year was September 1 unless that day was a Thursday, Friday or Saturday, then school started the following Monday. The school year always had 38 weeks of classes with 30 weeks covered by the nationwide unified curriculum.\n\nSince 1951 the learning of the Russian language as the foreign language was obligatory, because of the leading role of the Soviet Union in the Eastern bloc. Also available were English and French, but only as an additional elective foreign language (Universities required two foreign languages). The Russian lessons focused on the Cyrillic script, the writing, the reading and the grammar of the Russian language. To be able to have a substantial conversation was not an aim, but to be able to use professional and technical Russian literature. The speaking skills should reach a level of sufficient fluency to have a small conversation with a local. There were only few opportunities for student exchanges and to experience the pleasure of communicating in the other's language. Appreciated by parents were the so-called head marks (\"Kopfnoten\") which assessed behavior, industriousness, order, and cooperation. These were combined with a short teacher's essay about the student's character, success or progress, advice for future improvements - here and there from a socialistic point of view.\n\nFrom the seventh year onwards, students visited a factory, power station or farm one day per week for 4 hours, depending on their location. At any of these places, the student would work alongside regular employees.\n\nThere were annual championships on various subjects with the winners receiving prizes. The Russian language and mathematics championships were very prestigious and competitive as well as regular championships in sport, called Spartakiade [from the word Spartacus].\n\nIf a student did not enter into the EOS (to take the \"Abitur\" (similar to the A-level in England) after the 8th year of POS, s/he applied for vocational training after the 9th year (with the result of the 9th year, which was therefore often more important than the final exam). The contract was then signed during the tenth year, so that after the tenth year of polytechnical school, a student went on to 2 or 3 years (depending on subject) of vocational training. Vocational training was offered for every subject that was not taught at university, such as masonry, farming, accountancy, kindergarten teacher, nurse, mechanics, electricians, carpentry, butchery, etc.\n\nVocational training was split in practical work and theoretical learning which focused both on the studied subject of career, and ended with a certificate and a formal title.\n\nIn the latter part of the apprenticeship the student was integrated into the team where s/he would work after the apprenticeship. The vocational training could take place in the students home town, but often occurred in another city. Students lived there in an Internat (boarding school). In most cases that was the first time in the young persons life they lived \"independent\" from their parents' home for one or two years. The students were allowed to visit home on the weekends.\n\nWith a completed apprenticeship the worker/farmer was qualified to have additional training for supervisor (Meister), or technological school (Ingenieurschule). To go to university, Abitur was necessary.\n\nBig companies often trained more apprentices than they could absorb. Because after apprenticeship people went to national service, moved town, went to universities, changed jobs to work closer to home, etc. Hence companies had all age levels from 16 year olds to seniors, who then trained up the juniors before retiring.\n\nEntrance to East German Universities was very limited. To attend University education in East Germany one had to attend the erweiterte Oberschule. Access to these schools was restricted to the 2-3 best students per POS class. Entry to the EOS was after grade 8 for 4 years. At 18 years of age every youth either had finished EOS or vocational training. A special form was vocational training with abitur, which lasted 3 years after leaving the POS.\n\nEast German universities were very closely linked to both schools and to industry. The universities selected their own students from the applicants. As the school system was centralised all school certificates were comparable. No university entry exam was necessary.\n\nMostly focused on technical education, these universities were highly regarded all over the world to be of a very high standard.\n\nThere were basically two ways to get into a university: either via EOS or via apprenticeship plus abitur. For those who found their calling later in life there were Volkshochschulen (People's Colleges) for night classes and a special university preparation course in a boarding school lasting 1 year in an ABF (Arbeiter- und Bauern Fakultaet; Workers and Farmers College). While everyone could visit the VHS, access to the ABF was restricted to workers and farmers with at least 5 years working experience. This was usually organised by the HR department of the company where they worked.\n\nNational service was 18 months for males between the age of 18 and 26. Often prospective students were intimidated into serving 3 years as NCO in order to begin university early. \n\nFor popular subjects such as information technology, or prestigious subjects such as law or medicine, there were more applicants to university than places. Then several criteria were taken into account - school exam, national service time, patriotism, ideology, religious affiliation (better: atheist; worse: religious), communist party membership, etc.\nIn the mid-80s there was one important change: those who wanted to study informatics could have their national service halved to 9 months.\n"}
{"id": "44531606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44531606", "title": "Else Klink", "text": "Else Klink\n\nElse Klink (October 23, 1907 in Kabakada, Bismarck Archipelago – October 18, 1994 in Köngen, Germany) was director of the Eurythmeum Stuttgart, the first training centre for Eurythmy founded by Marie Steiner in 1923, from 1935 until 1991. In 1945 she established the Eurythmeum Stage Group, which she also led until 1991. Her work contributed centrally to establishing Eurythmy as a performing art within the culture of Europe and internationally.\n\nAs the oldest daughter of Hans August Lorenz Klink, a northern German senior colonial official, and Nawjamba Ambo, an indigenous New Guinean, Else Klink grew up on Kabakada, one of the New Guinean islands. While attending a German girls' school, Else lived with friends of her family in Freiburg im Breisgau. When her foster parents died in June 1917, she was taken in by Anna Wolffhügel, a teacher of Eurythmy. Anna's husband, Max Wolffhügel, a painter and later Waldorf teacher in Stuttgart, became leader of the Anthroposophical Branch in Freiburg in 1918 and he invited Rudolf Steiner to lecture on August 19, 1919. Rudolf Steiner recommended that the children take Eurythmy lessons from Alice Fels, who was holding classes in Freiburg.\n\nFrom 1921 to 1926, Else Klink attended the first Waldorf school at the Uhlandshöhe in Stuttgart, where her talent for Eurythmy was identified. In 1924, she began taking a reduced load of other classes and spent most of her day in Eurythmy classes with Alice Fels, then leader of the Eurythmeum that stood next door to the school.\n\nIn October 1929 she went to the Netherlands to introduce Eurythmy there. Together with Wilhelmina Stigter, Klink fought the odds of a foreign language, long-distance commuting and only a small number of interested learners. In 1930 they held a first performance, in which she asked the dramatist, director and speaker, Otto Wiemer to recite and direct. It marked the beginning of a 30-year collaboration in which he was her artistic partner and advisor, lasting until Wiemer's death in 1960. For five years she built up the Eurythmy work in the Netherlands, then became seriously ill in 1934 and was forced to leave.\n\nThen, in 1935, Marie Steiner sent her to Stuttgart to set up the Eurythmeum once again, which had been discontinued in 1930, and confirmed her as its director.\n\nStarting in 1936 the authorities of the Third Reich began to severely curtail the practice of Eurythmy. Klink tried to save her school and travelled to Berlin to negotiate. She managed to come to an agreement that the training could continue, and \"Eurythmie\" was given a sub-category under the heading of dance. However, all performing of Eurythmy was banned and the diplomas issued had to be ratified by the Reichstheaterkammer. Unobtrusively, Klink ran courses for 40 students over the next six years. When on July 8, 1941 her students had successfully completed their program and their diplomas, \"decorated\" with the required swastika, were returned on August 2, 1941, they were no longer of any value. Eurythmy had been forbidden and the school had to close.\n\nShe was then required to do three years of \"Women's War Service\" in a parachute factory. When on September 12, 1944 Stuttgart was bombed and the building of the Eurythmeum destroyed, she left the city and found asylum in the village Gundelfingen on the Swabian Alp, where she could practice in an empty barn. Realising that the Third Reich would soon be over, she convinced her pianist, Getrud Födisch and speaker, Otto Wiemer, to join her, preparing a large tone and speech repertoire for the stage. When the war ended, she and Wiemer returned on foot to Stuttgart and began holding Eurythmy lessons in the hall of the Waldorf School. On November 8, 1945 the first performance took place in a factory building, after which she received a number of requests for training and founded the Eurythmeum Stage Ensemble. As the Eurythmeum building was a mound of rubble, she moved to Köngen where she and Otto Wiemer were able to build up a stage and start a Eurythmy school in old army barracks her principal supporter, Emil Kühn, had been able to secure from the American occupation army. Fortuitously, the American commander was Captain John Fentress Gardner, an anthroposophist and well aware of the art of Eurythmy. In 1948 they founded an association for the fostering of Eurythmy. They called the provisional setting of their school \"Private Eurythmy Conservatory Köngen\", having done all this in isolation from the rest of the world.\n\nIn 1947 she was finally able to report on what had happened to Marie Steiner in Switzerland, communication having been cut off for nearly ten years. Marie Steiner, the person responsible for the anthroposophical performing arts, bestowed on her the unrestricted rights to all future activities in Eurythmy. That same year the group gave 17 performances in Wurtemberg and eight in the Ruhrgebiet with a varied program. By 1950 the number had risen to some 50 per year.\n\nIn 1959 the Eurythmeum was rebuilt next door to the Rudolf Steiner House in Stuttgart with its own financial trust, securing the means for a larger stage group and the incorporation of live orchestral music. Klink worked on the preparation of student Eurythmists and the stage group with a vision of building an organisation and repertoire that could make Eurythmy known throughout the world. In 1961 the Eurythmy premiere of Schubert's 8th Symphony (Unfinished Symphony) took place; in 1974 first performance tour in Romania and through Germany at the invitation of the Romanian Philharmonia Arad. In 1975 she was invited to the \"Festival de la Danse\" in Paris to represent Germany. 1976 and 1978 she toured again with the Romanian Philharmonia Arad through Germany following with a tour through the United States and Canada and 1979 through seven cities in Romania, including the Congressional Palace in Bucharest with its 3000 seats. By this time every performance was packed wherever she went.\n\nIn 1986 she received the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany. She continued to organise international tours, with two additional ones in America. In 1991 she handed over the direction of the Eurythmeum to a group of her co-workers and teachers. She continued to live until 1994 in the Villa Kühn in Köngen, where she died on October 18. In 1992 the Eurythmy ensemble was renamed in her honour as the Else Klink Ensemble.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36333897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36333897", "title": "Institut Français", "text": "Institut Français\n\nThe Institut Français (French capitalization, Institut français; \"French institute\") is a French public industrial and commercial organization (EPIC). Started in 1907 by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for promoting French, francophone as well as local cultures around the world, in 2011 it replaced the CulturesFrance project as the umbrella for all French cultural outreach projects, with an expanded scope of work and increased resources (Decree No. 2010-1695 of 30 December 2010, in response to the law relating to the external scope of the State adopted on 12 July 2010).\n\nChaired by Bruno Foucher, who is assisted by Anne Tallineau, Deputy General manager, and Clément Bodeur-Cremieux, Secretary General, the French Institute works closely with the French cultural network abroad consisting of more than 150 branches and nearly 1000 branches of the Alliance française around the world. The process of incorporating the cultural networks of a dozen diplomatic missions has been conducted from January 2011 to 2014 as an experiment: Cambodia, Chile, Denmark, United Arab Emirates (UAE), Georgia, Ghana, India, Kuwait, UK, Senegal, Serbia, Singapore and Syria (suspended due to the political situation in Syria.)\n\nThe government has entrusted the Institut Français with promoting French culture abroad through artistic exchanges: performing arts, visual arts, architecture, the worldwide diffusion of French books, film, technology and ideas. Accordingly, the institute has developed a new scientific program for the dissemination of culture.\n\nThe Institut Français welcomes foreign cultural missions through the organization of \"seasons\" or festivals and cooperation with the countries of the south, including ensuring the management of the funds of \"Fonds Sud Cinema\" in partnership with the National Center of Cinematography and the moving image.\n\nIt also provides training for newly formed missions and professionalization of staff of the international French cultural network.\n\nThe first French institute, the Institut français de Florence, was established in 1907 in Florence by Julien Luchaire, with the help of the Faculty of Arts of Grenoble, followed by others would play an important role in the creation of deep cultural ties between France and other country.\n\nHistorically the French institutions established in the first half of the 20th century were committed to academic institutions, while the French cultural centers, usually created later in the second half of the 20th century or the beginning of the 21st century, were created by the French government. This difference does not exist anymore and cultural centers are now adopting the name of Institut Français.\n\nSome institutions have a bi-national status, governed by a bilateral agreement between the governments, particularly in Guinea (Conakry), Guinea Bissau ( Bissau), Mozambique ( Maputo), Namibia ( Windhoek) and Niger (Jean Rouch Franco-Nigerien Cultural Centre of Niamey ).\n\nThe 143 French institutions and French cultural centers are institutions located outside France under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and charged with promoting intellectual and cultural audiovisual cooperation between professionals, to present the French, Francophone as well as local traditional and contemporary art for all audiences (to begin with, with the young audience), to promote French higher education to foreign students and teachers and offer a complete range of courses and international examinations for the French language.\n\nThey usually have, in the embassies of France which they depend on, a financially (but not legally) autonomous status. This also gives its director the status of authorising and being accountable for the budget devoted to the establishment (which is a grant from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and from its own resources) and a reserve fund not limited to the year, which enables the creation of multi-year programs.\n\nThey are funded fully or partially by their own revenues raised by teaching French as official language or as a foreign language (depending on the countries) and sponsorship (for those with a genuine ambition in terms of cultural engineering).\nMoreover, the French research institutes abroad (IFRE) depend jointly on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the CNRS.\n\nToday, French institutions and French cultural centers (RTCs) are essential levers for the development of cooperation between network professionals culture and education as well as for the promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "230647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230647", "title": "Knowledge transfer", "text": "Knowledge transfer\n\nKnowledge transfer refers to sharing or disseminating of knowledge and providing inputs to problem solving. In organizational theory, knowledge transfer is the practical problem of transferring knowledge from one part of the organization to another. Like knowledge management, knowledge transfer seeks to organize, create, capture or distribute knowledge and ensure its availability for future users. It is considered to be more than just a communication problem. If it were merely that, then a memorandum, an e-mail or a meeting would accomplish the knowledge transfer. Knowledge transfer is more complex because:\n\n\nThe subject has been taken up under the title of knowledge management since the 1990s. The term has also been applied to the transfer of knowledge being transferred at the international level.\n\nIn business, knowledge transfer now has become a common topic in Mergers and acquisitions. It focuses on transferring technological platform, market experience, managerial expertise, advance corporate culture, and other intellectual capital that can improve the companies' competence. Since technical skills and knowledge are very important assets for firms' competence in the global competition, unsuccessful knowledge transfer will have a negative impact to the corporations and leads to the expensive and time-consuming M&A not creating values to the firms.\n\nArgote & Ingram (2000) define knowledge transfer as \"the process through which one unit (e.g., group, department, or division) is affected by the experience of another\" (p. 151). They further point out the transfer of organizational knowledge (i.e., routine or best practices) can be observed through changes in the knowledge or performance of recipient units. The transfer of organizational knowledge, such as best practices, can be quite difficult to achieve.\n\nSzulanski's doctoral dissertation (\"Exploring internal stickiness: Impediments to the transfer of best practice within the firm\") proposed that knowledge transfer within a firm is inhibited by factors other than a lack of incentive. How well knowledge about best practices remains broadly accessible within a firm depends upon the nature of that knowledge, from where (or whom) it comes, who gets it, and the organizational context within which any transfer occurs. \"Stickiness\" is a metaphor that comes from the difficulty of circulating fluid around an oil refinery (including effects of the fluid's native viscosity). It is worth noting that his analysis does not apply to scientific theories, where a different set of dynamics and rewards apply.\n\nThree related concepts are \"knowledge utilization\", \"research utilization\" and \"implementation\", which are used in the health sciences to describe the process of bringing a new idea, practice or technology into consistent and appropriate use in a clinical setting. The study of knowledge utilization/implementation (KU/I) is a direct outgrowth of the movement toward evidence-based medicine and research concluding that health care practices with demonstrated efficacy are not consistently used in practice settings.\n\nKnowledge transfer within organisations and between nations also raises ethical considerations particularly where there is an imbalance in power relationships (e.g. employer and employee) or in the levels of relative need for knowledge resources (e.g. developed and developing worlds).\n\nKnowledge transfer includes, but encompasses more than, technology transfer.\n\nTwo kinds of knowledge transfer mechanisms have been noticed in practice: Personalization and Codification. Personalization refers to the one-to-one transfer of [knowledge] between two entities in person. A very good example of this is the act of teaching a person how to ride a bicycle. On the other hand, codification refers to the act of converting knowledge into knowledge artifacts such as documents, images and videos that are consumed by the knowledge recipients asynchronously.\n\nPersonalized knowledge transfer results in better assimilation of knowledge by the recipient when knowledge tacitness is higher and/or when information content in a knowledge object is high . On the other hand, codification is driven by the need to transfer knowledge to large number of people and results in better knowledge reuse. Entropy of the knowledge objects can provide a measure of their information content or tacitness.\n\nWith the move of advanced economies from a resource-based to a knowledge-based production, many national governments have increasingly recognized \"knowledge\" and \"innovation\" as significant driving forces of economic growth, social development, and job creation. In this context the promotion of 'knowledge transfer' has increasingly become a subject of public and economic policy. However, the long list of changing global, national and regional government programmes indicates the tension between the need to conduct 'free' research – that is motivated by interest and by private sector 'short term' objectives - and research for public interests and general common good.\n\nThe underlying assumption that there is a potential for increased collaboration between industry and universities is also underlined in much of the current innovation literature. In particular the Open Innovation approach to developing business value is explicitly based on an assumption that Universities are a \"vital source for accessing external ideas\". Moreover, Universities have been deemed to be \"the great, largely unknown, and certainly underexploited, resource contributing to the creation of wealth and economic competitiveness.\"\n\nUniversities and other public sector research organisations (PSROs) have accumulated much practical experience over the years in the transfer of knowledge \"across\" the divide between the domains of publicly produced knowledge and the private exploitation of it. Many colleges and PSROs have developed processes and policies to discover, protect and exploit intellectual property (IP) rights, and to ensure that IP is successfully transferred to private corporations, or vested in new companies formed for the purposes of exploitation. Routes to commercialization of IP produced by PSROs and colleges include licensing, joint venture, new company formation and royalty-based assignments.\n\nOrganisations such as AUTM in the US, the Institute of Knowledge Transfer in the UK, SNITTS in Sweden and the Association of European Science and Technology Transfer Professionals in Europe have provided a conduit for knowledge transfer professionals across the public and private sectors to identify best practice and develop effective tools and techniques for the management of PSRO/college produced IP. On-line Communities of Practice for knowledge transfer practitioners are also emerging to facilitate connectivity (such as The Global Innovation Network and the knowledge Pool).\n\nBusiness-University Collaboration was the subject of the Lambert Review in the UK in 2003.\n\nIn the knowledge-based economy, learning becomes extremely important in determining the fate of individuals, firms and national economies.\n\nKnowledge transfer can also be achieved through investment programme, both intentionally and unintentionally in the form of skills, technology, and ‘tacit knowledge’ including management and organisational practices. For example, foreign investment in African countries have shown to provide some knowledge transfer.\n\nBy knowledge transfer in landscape ecology, means a group of activities that increase the understanding of landscape ecology with the goal of encouraging application of this knowledge. Five factors will influence knowledge transfer from the view of forest landscape ecology: the generation of research capacity, the potential for application, the users of the knowledge, the infrastructure capacity, and the process by which knowledge is transferred (Turner, 2006).\n\nKnowledge is a dominant feature in our post-industrial society, and knowledge workers are important in many enterprises. Blackler expands on a categorization of knowledge types that were suggested by Collins (1993):\n\n\nWhat complicates knowledge transfer? There are many factors, including:\nEverett Rogers pioneered diffusion of innovations theory, presenting a research-based model for how and why individuals and social networks adopt new ideas, practices and products. In anthropology, the concept of diffusion also explores the spread of ideas among cultures.\n\n\n\nKnowledge transfer is often used as a synonym for training. Furthermore, information should not be confused with knowledge, nor is it, strictly speaking, possible to \"transfer\" experiential knowledge to other people. Information might be thought of as facts or understood data; however, knowledge has to do with flexible and adaptable skills—a person's unique ability to wield and apply information. This fluency of application is in part what differentiates information from knowledge. Knowledge tends to be both tacit and personal; the knowledge one person has is difficult to quantify, store, and retrieve for someone else to use.\n\nKnowledge transfer (KT) and knowledge sharing (KS) are sometimes used interchangeably or are considered to share common features. Since some KM researchers assume that these two concepts are rather similar and have overlapping content, there is often confusion, especially among researchers and practitioners, about what a certain concept means. For this reason, terms such as KM and KT get used incorrectly without any respect to their real meaning and these meanings can change from paper to paper.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3616215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3616215", "title": "Legitimate peripheral participation", "text": "Legitimate peripheral participation\n\nLegitimate peripheral participation (LPP) describes how newcomers become experienced members and eventually old timers of a community of practice or collaborative project . LPP identifies learning as a contextual social phenomenon, achieved through participation in a community practice. According to LPP, newcomers become members of a community initially by participating in simple and low-risk tasks that are nonetheless productive and necessary and further the goals of the community. Through peripheral activities, novices become acquainted with the tasks, vocabulary, and organizing principles of the community's practitioners.\n\nGradually, as newcomers become old timers and gain a recognized level of mastery, their participation takes forms that are more and more central to the functioning of the community. LPP suggests that membership in a community of practice is mediated by the possible forms of participation to which newcomers have access, both physically and socially. In the case of a mentor-mentee relationship between older timers and newcomers, the old timer has both the power to confer legitimacy to the newcomer, and to control the newcomer's level of access to different community practices and experiences. If newcomers can directly observe the practices of experts, they understand the broader context into which their own efforts fit. Conversely LPP suggests that newcomers who are separated from the experts have limited access to their tools and community and therefore have limited growth. As participation increases, situations arise that allow the participant to assess how well they are contributing through their efforts, thus legitimate peripheral participation provides a means for self-evaluation .\n\nLPP is not reserved for descriptions of membership in formal organizations or professions whose practices are highly defined. For example, O'Donovan and Kirk suggest that young people's participation in sport can be compared to a Community of Practice related to physical education.\n\nIn his later work on communities of practice Wenger abandoned the concept of legitimate peripheral participation and introduced the idea of a duality instead, however the term is still widely used in relation to situated learning.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9042750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9042750", "title": "List of Boston Public characters", "text": "List of Boston Public characters\n\nThis site includes the list of all cast members that appeared on FOX drama series \"Boston Public\".\n\nSteven Harper, played by Chi McBride, is the tough and level-headed principal with a heart of gold who constantly struggles with the hang-ups and problems of his employees and students, from Harry Senate's firing off a gun in his classroom to Milton Buttle's affair with a student in Season 1, and Danny Hanson and Marla Hendricks' bickering (and eventual fist-fighting) in Seasons 2 and 3. Throughout the series, Steven remained the most consistent character on the show, and its strongest presence and focal point. Considered one of the most important characters in the show, he was consistently the school's leader, handling teachers and students with problems; much of his character revolved around his pride in the teaching profession and his loyalty to the kids and the faculty.\n\nLittle is known about Steven's past, but there are suggestions that he was a rebellious youth during his teenage years. He mentions in one episode that he crashed a car into a tree while drunk, and reveals in another episode that, when he was 14, he and some friends robbed a convenience store, but when one of his teachers found out and didn't report him to the police, Steven began to turn his life around. This, years later, allowed Steven to admire, more or less, teachers who stopped at nothing to help their students. It is also mentioned that Steven played football in high school.\n\nSteven was married to a woman named Louanna, but they divorced. During Season 2, Brooke, Steven's rebellious, liberal activist teenage daughter, gets transferred to Winslow High after being expelled from her private school when an animal rights protest goes wrong. Steven manages to build a relationship with Brooke and his estranged ex-wife, who later goes on to date another man. By the end of Season 3, Brooke had been written out of the series, as she had graduated and was accepted to Harvard University. Once the show's fourth and final season began, Steven embarked on a relationship with Marilyn Sudor, which caused some friction between him and Scott Guber, who had become attracted to Marylin.\n\nSteven appeared in a 2005 episode of \"Boston Legal\" titled \"Let Sales Ring\", when a student sued Winslow High for censoring a news network (that was clearly Fox News Channel, though never explicitly identified as such). He also appeared on Boston Legal's parent show, The Practice.\n\nLauren Davis, played by Jessalyn Gilsig (Seasons 1-2), was one of the two social studies teachers in Season 1. She earned the nickname \"The Nun\" because of her strait-laced ways. By Season 2, when the ostensibly hipper Ronnie Cooke appeared, Lauren's character changed, making her what her colleagues called a \"prima donna perfectionist.\" In Season 1, Steven felt that she was being racist because she was tougher on her African-American students, an accusation she was willing to consider in order to save Harvey from being fired.\n\nLauren briefly dated Harry, but broke up with him, in what was Season 1's biggest romance. Later, she began dating Daniel Evans, an alumnus who was found to be a stalker. She carried a gun to protect herself and was suspended for a summer session.\n\nDuring Season 2, Lauren was shocked when some of her students were hospitalized because they were so stressed out about her work assignments. Scott had a crush on Lauren, a relationship that never seemed to go anywhere until right before Lauren was written out of the show.\n\nWhen the third season premiered, Gilsig had left the show, and it was mentioned that Lauren had left Winslow High for a job at a private school.\n\nMarla Hendricks, played by Loretta Devine, was a social studies teacher who suffered from severe bipolar manic depression, the effects of which were mainly only seen in Season 1. She had to take pills to make it through a stressful day, which seemed to be just about every day.\n\nMarla was occasionally depicted as a vocally religious woman, encouraging students to pray on school grounds and running a gospel choir. She was also frequently the one to give lectures to other faculty members, parents or students about the financial and emotional challenges facing teachers, along with other topical issues such as bullying, multiculturalism, and the usage of the word \"nigger/nigga\" by white people.\n\nOn the other hand, on many occasions, Marla was depicted, like Danny and Harvey, as someone who did not think before she spoke. She was vocal and no-nonsense, and often insulted teachers, students and even Steven when they needed it, or sometimes just because she needed it. Scott once accused her of being too emotional on too many different issues to the point it diluted her potency as an advocate. Marla's bold personality kept her from advancing into administration when she insulted the concept of standardized testing during a job interview for vice principal. In Season 3, Marla had a brief relationship with a political advocate played by Vern Troyer.\n\nIn Season 4, Marla decided to have a baby, and asked Steven if he would consider donating his sperm. When Steven refused, she continued to try to get pregnant but failed, suffering a miscarriage, but later got the chance of experiencing motherhood when she took in a troubled student named Rainy.\n\nOverall, Marla was considered an excellent and compassionate teacher, adept at reaching kids and parents. Like the other faculty members, her personal foibles sometimes got in her way, but she was, overall, there for the kids and her colleagues.\n\nScott Guber, played by Anthony Heald, is the vice principal who was forced to play the disciplinary \"bad cop\" to both the students and faculty. As someone who grew up bullied because his peers mistakenly thought he was gay, Scott treated bigotry and bullying as serious a crime as cutting class or cheating on an exam. On the other hand, some episodes had him seriously bullying teachers with a condescending, managerial tone that caused them to dislike him. In fact, the students saw him as so tough they labeled him \"The Nazi\" in spite of the fact that Scott is Jewish. However, Scott's dedication to Winslow High and its students was eventually noted in the first-season finale when the kids gave him a special award.\n\nIt is strongly indicated that Scott's father died several years ago; his single mother, Miriam, appears in Season 3 and goes out on a date with Harvey. Scott also has an older brother named George, who is a high-priced lawyer; he became estranged from his brother when George set Scott up on a date with a masseuse who turned out to be a call girl.\n\nScott's ongoing goal was to one day become a principal himself, a goal he pursued in Season 1, which was also devoted to his growing dislike for being the \"bad guy\" to Steven's \"good guy.\" He was disappointed to receive an unfavorable recommendation from Steven, who said he wasn't ready and was too autocratic to be a principal. Over the next seasons, Scott and Steven would sometimes wrangle over the boundaries between their two jobs, but their friendship was key to the both of them and to the show.\n\nScott's love of classical music, composing and conducting was a staple of the character's off-duty time and occasionally allowed for storylines. His romantic life, unlike Steven's, was often fodder for storylines on the show. In Season 1, Scott pursued Lauren to the point she called it harassment, and later asked Marilyn Sudor out, leaving Lauren and Marilyn to conclude that he asked out any woman who was nice to him. This tendency came to a head in Season 2 when Scott began an ill-advised relationship with the duplicitous Meredith Peters who, in Season 1, locked her son Jeremy in the basement. Jeremy returned the favor, and she escaped only by chainsaw, severing her hand in the process and gaining the nickname \"Hook Lady.\" The relationship was filled with ups and downs. Scott's attempts to get on Jeremy's good side were occasionally chronicled, including his sensitivity to Jeremy's bisexuality. Both characters basically disappeared after Scott separated from the erratic and pathological Meredith late in Season 2.\n\nAt the end of Season 2, Scott took up with Lauren, but as she didn't come back for Season 3, we never learned how that relationship ended. By the end of Season 3, however, Scott had increased his level of friendship with Marilyn through dancing lessons, and by Season 4, he was pursuing her. Marilyn rejected his advances, as she was seeing Steven. Weeks later, Scott found love in Violet Montgomery, a former adult film actress turned free spirit who shared his taste in music and agreed to date him exclusively.\n\nMarilyn Sudor, played by Sharon Leal, was the music instructor and an English teacher. One of the most attractive teachers in the school, Marilyn was often the listed as the teacher the \"boys most wanted to sleep with\" in a yearly student poll.\n\nStudent storylines had her involved with Tyronn Anderson (a gang member whom Harry was covering for), Jeremy Peters (who was being locked in the basement by his mother), and Aisha (a young talented singer who needed to break up with her abusive boyfriend). Marilyn admitted in Season 3 that she too had been in an abusive relationship with an ex-husband who showed up for an annulment in Season 4.\n\nRomantically, Marilyn joined with Scott to take some dancing lessons, but was quick to assert that they were going to just be friends. She dated a basketball coach who turned out to be in coaching to advance his college coaching chances. In the final season, she began dating Steven, and their romance became public after a student faced suspension for kissing Marilyn at a scholarship awards ceremony threatened to go before the school board because he felt that he was suspended for kissing the principal's girlfriend; eventually, Steven agreed to reduce the student's punishment so that it would not cause him to lose his scholarship or hurt his college application process.\n\nMarilyn was also involved in many of the musical numbers the show employed, singing at school concerts, doing a singing trio with Louisa and Marla, and working with young musicians. She was known for being by-the-book, compassionate, and straightforward, but also rather enigmatic and sort of a utility player a lot of the time.\n\nHarvey Lipschultz, played by Fyvush Finkel, was a history teacher. Harvey was a somewhat stereotypical elderly Jewish man. He was not a fan of political correctness, and his character seemed to switch from being a well-meaning old man that once met with the school's football team to ask them not to discriminate against a player who was rumored to be gay, while other times he came off as an Archie Bunker-type bigot or a simple comical buffoon of a bygone era.\n\nAs a young man, Harvey served in World War II. On the night before he left to go to Europe, he had a one-night stand with an African-American \"lady of the evening\" who later gave birth to a son named Lester who, at the age of sixty, was able to track down Harvey and introduce him to his family, including Lester's children and grandchildren. After the war, Harvey came home and married a woman named Helen, and remained faithful to her until she died, although she did have an affair. He frequently reflected back on Helen, who died shortly before the series began. In Season 3, a stock dip erased Harvey's life savings.\n\nOften threatening to retire and also threatened with being fired, Harvey was able to continue working after he agreed to attend racial sensitivity classes in Season 1, and in Season 3, was barely saved from retirement by some last-minute budget restructuring.\n\nRonnie Cooke, played by Jeri Ryan (Seasons 2-4), was a college friend of Harry's, a successful and wealthy corporate lawyer who decided that her true calling in life was to teach at a public high school. As a lawyer, Ronnie often acted as a legal advocate for students in what some argued were completely unrealistic and \"off-topic\" situations. She handled at least two murder-related trials (one for Steven, one for some students). Other times, the stories fit the school: One of her first actions as a teacher was to help Danny organize his students to sue Harvey for emotional abuse, and also helped students get out of various legal jams.\n\nRonnie briefly dated Harry until he left the show early in Season 3. She then began an on-and-off relationship with Zach Fischer, and accepted a position from Dave Fields, the mayor's liaison, to be Winslow High's new assistant principal after she impressed the school board with her testing techniques. This made Marla, the other candidate for the job, jealous, and angered Scott, who saw Ronnie as a glory-hound putting her own political interests above the needs of the students. Zach became jealous of the mayor's liaison, who clearly liked Ronnie. Eventually, Ronnie and Scott came to an understanding, and were able to avoid budget cuts by cutting all funding on varsity sports. Marla moved on, and Zach became a Buddhist. By Season 4, Ronnie has stepped down from her position as vice principal and became the school guidance counselor.\n\nDaniel 'Danny' Hanson, played by Michael Rapaport (Seasons 2-4), was some kind of humanities teacher who was introduced at the beginning of Season 2. He came from a working-class Irish-Catholic home, and had a populist political philosophy and a certain ambivalence about religion, declaring he didn't believe in God during the fourth season. This was due to him being sexually molested by his priest, Father Bill Egan, when he was a child. Danny also had a conservative side when it came to race, and didn't like the \"sacred cow\" status some racial issues were given. Later in Season 2, he began a debate about the word \"nigger\" in Winslow High. Marla correctly suggested that Danny's main flaw wasn't being controversial, but raising questions that he didn't have any helpful solutions to. Danny and Marla fought a lot (including one fist-fight early in Season 3), but also admitted they had a lot in common.\n\nLike Marla, Danny's hot-headed attitude got him into trouble in both his professional and personal life. To name a few examples, when he walked in on his fiancé having sex with another man, Danny threw a phone at the man. Later, he sent letters to the parents of overweight students advising them to watch their children's junk food intake over the summer; one of the students punched him for that.\n\nOn the upside, Danny helped students with various issues, including a kid who had been molested by the same priest who hurt Danny, and a 12-year-old genius. He also had a special relationship with overachieving Debbie Nixon in Season 2, which came under scrutiny but turned out to be a healthy teacher/student mentorship.\n\nIn the series' third season, Danny began dating Claire Ellison, whom he eventually married, and gained custody of Allison, his 5-year-old niece, while Joanie, his sister, was in rehab for drug addiction. By Season 4, the marriage was faltering, and Joanie came back for Allison (which is rather legally dubious as they had legally adopted her). The series left Danny and Claire willing to work on their marriage while Allison went to live with her mom.\n\nHarry Senate, played by Nicky Katt (episodes 1-49), was perhaps the most popular of \"Boston Public\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s characters. A teacher who was assigned to teach in the infamous \"Dungeon\" after Marla walks out on the class in the pilot episode when dealing with the disruptive students there overwhelmed her, Harry specialized in using his own dark side to reach kids on the edge.\n\nPossessed of a sarcastic sense of humor, Harry was infamous for deploying unusual (and often dangerous) methods to try and reach his students, such as firing a gun off in the Dungeon in an effort to teach the unruly students there a lesson in respect, agreeing to become the faculty sponsor for a student branch of the National Rifle Association only to later deliver a disparaging speech against the organization (which he linked to an American glorification of gun violence), and starting up a \"Suicide Club\" to get kids to open up about their suicidal feelings.\n\nIn an early Season 1 storyline, Harry was kissed by a student, Dana Poole, who later blackmailed him. He almost lost his job for this and his other radical antics, one being withholding knowledge that a student, Tyronn Anderson, had killed a rival gang member in self-defense. However, Harry's great compassion and ability to persuade his students to never give up and do the right thing ultimately saved his job, though he continued to come into conflict with Scott and Steven over his controversial methods.\n\nHarry began a relationship with Lauren. The two initially seemed happy until Lauren began to feel that Harry wasn't really opening up to her; they subsequently broke up shortly after Harry confided in Lauren that he knew Tyronn killed someone. Harry's more serious relationship was with Ronnie Cooke in Seasons 2 and 3. Ronnie had initially been brought in by Harry to talk about her job as a big-time lawyer, but she was so impressed by Harry's handling of students that she signed up as a teacher.\n\nIn the second-season finale, Harry was stabbed by a former student and almost died. It took the near-death of Harry Senate for the rest of the faculty to realize how much they had come to love Harry as more than a colleague, but also as a close friend. Initially, Harry was supposed to die from his wounds; this was David E. Kelley's way of writing Nicky Katt out of the show so that he could pursue a movie career. When Katt became available again, but for only a part of the next season, Kelley and his writers allowed Harry to survive the attack, only to suffer from a slow mental breakdown that would ultimately provide Katt with a very different exit from the show.\n\nA combination of post-traumatic stress (as a result of the stabbing) and his inability to \"save\" some of his most troubled students prompted Harry's breakdown as he displayed increasingly unpredictable behavior, such as taking off for Florida on an unapproved leave of absence, harboring a teenage prostitute and her young son, yelling at his students for not completing their homework, and getting rough with Ronnie while making love with her. Given the choice of being fired or taking a sabbatical, Harry was dismayed, but realized that his current mental state was affecting his unique ability as a teacher. He chose to take a leave of absence to get himself together, promising that he would someday return. As he walked out of the building, Harry gave newly arrived teacher Kimberly Woods some good advice.\n\nKelley admitted that Harry's choice to take a leave of absence was a way of allowing for his eventual return should Katt become available again; the show's premature cancellation prevented the possibility.\n\nIn the third season, three new teachers were hired. The first two were Zach Fischer (Jon Abrahams) and Colin Flynn (Joey McIntyre). Zach seemed to be a replacement for Harry, except with no mysterious personal demons. He didn't deal with the same on-edge kids, but was very well liked by students who dubbed him \"Fish.\" He soon began to date Ronnie until they broke up and he became a Buddhist (despite being Jewish). Colin had a brief affair with Patricia Emerson, the mother of Becky Emerson (who had a crush on him herself), but broke it off when a jealous Becky threatened to reveal the affair in a poem she was going to read in public.\n\nThe third character was Kimberly Woods (Michelle Monaghan), a young and somewhat naive woman in a \"Teach for America\" program whose class discussion on affirmative action results in racial violence that ended up putting Steven on trial for murder. Kimberly was later forced to leave Winslow High after an obsessed lesbian student stalked and threatened to kill her. Zach and Colin disappeared from the show after the third season with no explanation as to what happened to them.\n\nIn the fourth and final season, three new characters came onto the show. The first was Carmen Torres (Natalia Baron), a 21-year-old Spanish-fluent physics teacher who would clash with Steven over his insistence that she not speak and teach Spanish in the classroom. (The storyline never brought up the controversial reality that Massachusetts schools have a state-mandated English-only policy.) Carmen started a brief relationship with Jake (Milo Ventimiglia), an undercover cop who was posing as a \"bad boy\" teenager in order to bring down a student who was selling drugs; Jake was murdered when the drug bust went wrong. In the meantime, she helped Jenn Cardell (Lyndsy Fonseca), a student who also liked Jake and had a drinking problem. Carmen revealed her own drinking problem, but little was made of it. She also revealed her mother committed suicide. Carmen disappears in the middle of the final season with no explanation.\n\nThere were some minor faculty members that served to comment on the current administration and teacher techniques and status.\n\n\nMinor characters in the series were primarily (but not always) students who were introduced to make a comment on society in general.\n\n"}
{"id": "27429537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27429537", "title": "List of learning management systems", "text": "List of learning management systems\n\nThe following is a list of learning management systems (LMS).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36899619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36899619", "title": "List of the oldest schools in Sri Lanka", "text": "List of the oldest schools in Sri Lanka\n\nThe following is a list of the oldest schools in Sri Lanka that are still functioning.\n\n"}
{"id": "41878020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41878020", "title": "Marion Freschl", "text": "Marion Freschl\n\nMarion Freschl (née Szekely) (January 16, 1896 - November 23, 1984, New York City) was an American operatic contralto and voice teacher of Hungarian descent. A member of the voice faculties at the Curtis Institute of Music and the Juilliard School, she taught several highly successful singers, including Marian Anderson, Joan La Barbara, Brenda Lewis, Joanna Simon, Shirley Verrett, and Camilla Williams.\n\nBoth Freschl and her brother, baritone and voice teacher Rudolph Szekely, were trained at the Franz Liszt Academy of Music and began their careers as resident artists at the Hungarian State Opera House. She went on to sing leading roles at opera houses in Germany, Austria and Scandinavia before immigrating to the United States in 1941. In the 1920s she was active with the Berlin State Opera.\n"}
{"id": "53514915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53514915", "title": "Mary Godfrey", "text": "Mary Godfrey\n\nMary Emmeline Godfrey (3 July 1913 - 30 April 2007) was an artist and art educator who became the first African-American faculty member at Penn State University. She was hired in 1957 and served as an assistant professor of art education until her retirement in 1979.\n\nShe gained a bachelor of fine arts from the Pratt Institute and a master's degree from Columbia University and worked as the assistant state supervisor of art education for the Virginia Department of Education. In 1957, Dr. Viktor Lowenfeld, head of the newly formed Department of Art Education, College of Education, at The Pennsylvania State University, hired Godfrey as assistant professor of art education. She was the first full-time African American faculty member hired at Penn State. She served for 22 years, teaching courses in elementary and secondary art education, supervision, the history of art education, and introduction to crafts. She researched the design of art classrooms, studying Pennsylvania art education laboratories, art rooms, and facilities for junior high schools. Her artwork was exhibited in both Pennsylvania and Virginia.\n\n"}
{"id": "27033933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27033933", "title": "Megan Andelloux", "text": "Megan Andelloux\n\nMegan Andelloux is a certified sexologist and sexuality educator, accredited through The American Association of Sexuality Educators, Counselors and Therapists (AASECT) and The American College of Sexologists (ACS).\n\nA former member of the Pentecostal church, Assembly of God, she has been a sexuality educator since 1998, originally working with Planned Parenthood, later as Director of the Sexuality Learning and Resource Center and now serves as the Director of the non-profit Center for Sexual Pleasure and Health (CSPH) in Pawtucket, Rhode Island. Andelloux is known for advocating that sexual pleasure is an integral part of overall sexual health, which she calls the \"female pleasure principle\".\n\nAndelloux has been an invited speaker at various colleges and universities, including Boston University Medical School, Brandeis University, Clark University, Wesleyan University, Brown University, Vanderbilt University, Harvard University, the Rhode Island School of Design, Tufts University, the University of Tennessee, and Yale University, as well as numerous other institutions such as the Center for Sex and Culture, and WholeDC.\n\nShe is also an author of a chapter for the book \"We Got Issues!\", a feminist response to cultural attitudes on feminism, as well as once writing for the sex worker magazine, $pread.\n\nIn late 2009 and early 2010, Andelloux's attempts to open The CSPH, her non-profit sexuality education center, became the center of a controversy pitting her against anti-prostitution and anti-trafficking activist Donna M. Hughes.\n\nAlthough The CSPH was slated to open on September 26, 2009, Pawtucket Mayor James E. Doyle had \"serious concerns about the Center for Sexual Pleasure and Health locating on Main Street\" after he and the rest of the Pawtucket City Council received an e-mail one week prior to the scheduled opening. Although originally reported as being sent from an anonymous \"concerned citizen\", Lynn Comella later claimed that the e-mail had been sent by Professor Donna M. Hughes from University of Rhode Island.\n\nThe e-mail read, \"Hello, A center for 'sexual rights' and 'sexual pleasure' is opening in Pawtucket\". Rumors circulated that The CSPH would actually function as a brothel, an abortion clinic, and a havenhouse for sex trafficking. Andelloux said the CSPH would be a place where adults can talk openly about sex, and that opposition was founded on \"a basic fear of talking openly about sexuality\".\n\nUnder threat of arrest, Andelloux relocated the CSPH's premier event, which featured speeches such as the keynote by Carol Queen, from her leased space in The Grant Building to a nearby performance space. The Pawtucket City Council cited educational zoning restrictions as cause for their opposition. Despite the presence of other \"educational\" businesses that were already operating in the Grant Building, including a chess academy, Director of Administration Harvey E. Goulet denied Anelloux's application for a special permit, which drew criticism from the American Civil Liberties Union because Goulet was quoted as objecting to \"this type of business\" as \"not really something we feel is appropriate for our city\". Rhode Island ACLU executive director Steven Brown said that Goulet's comments made clear \"the city's intent is to suppress the speech that would otherwise occur at the Center. Such content-based discrimination raises serious constitutional concerns.\"\n\nIn early 2010, the Zoning Board seemed to agree when, after many expressed regret to Ms. Andelloux for the prior tangle, the members cleared The CSPH to finally open. The Center for Sexual Pleasure and Health opened on February 2, 2010.\n\nIn December 2013, the CSPH attained status as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization making the organization tax-exempt and eligible to apply for government and foundation grants. Furthermore, any donations made to The CSPH are now tax-deductible.\n\n"}
{"id": "4481784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4481784", "title": "Neil R. Grabois", "text": "Neil R. Grabois\n\nNeil R. Grabois (born 1935) is a mathematician and a former university administrator. He held positions as the dean, provost, and chair of the department of mathematical sciences of Williams College; as the thirteenth President of Colgate University, from 1988 to 1999; as Vice President at the Carnegie Corporation in New York; and as the dean of the Milano School of International Affairs, Management, and Urban Policy at The New School, where he served from 2010 until his departure in 2013.\n\nHe received his doctorate from the University of Pennsylvania after attending Swarthmore College. He graduated from Stuyvesant High School in 1953. Grabois currently sits on the boards of Project Pericles, Swarthmore College, The Jewish Foundation for the Education of Women and the Michael Wolk Heart Foundation. He is an adjunct faculty member of Teacher's College at Columbia University.\n\nHe and his wife Miriam have two children and one grandchild.\n"}
{"id": "28169960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28169960", "title": "OPAR L'Orientale Open Archive", "text": "OPAR L'Orientale Open Archive\n\nOPAR L'Orientale Open Archive is the institutional repository of the University of Naples \"L'Orientale\", designed according to the Berlin Declaration on Open Access to Knowledge in Science and Humanities and the Messina Declaration ratified by CRUI in 2004.\nOPAR L'Orientale Open Archive is a digital repository, accessible to all. Registered users can deposit different items: articles, technical reports, Ph.D. theses, books, working papers and preprints, articles already appeared in journals, conference papers and chapters from books already published, training aid, dataset and more.\n\nSince 2001, the Budapest Open Access Initiative promotes the free availability or research articles in all academic fields and concerns a growing number of individuals and organizations from around the world who represent researchers, universities, laboratories, libraries, foundations, journals, publishers, learned societies, and kindred open-access initiatives.\n\n"}
{"id": "44942426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44942426", "title": "OpenOLAT", "text": "OpenOLAT\n\nOpenOLAT is a web-based learning management system for teaching, education, assessment and communication. The name OpenOLAT stands for Open Online Learning And Training, highlighting its open source and online nature. OpenOLAT is open source software and is being developed by frentix GmbH since 2011. OpenOLAT is based on the LMS OLAT developed by the University of Zurich.\n\nOpenOLAT originated from the open source project OLAT. In 2011, the University of Zurich initiated a massive refactoring project with the goal of redesigning the complete code base and switching to the Mercurial version control system. With the start of the refactoring, repository access for contributors from the OLAT community was revoked, making further contributions impossible. Since then, the OLAT developers practice open source only in the form of publishing finished source code, but lack any kind of community involvement.\nBecause of these changes to OLAT, the OpenOLAT fork was initiated in 2011. OpenOLAT is an alternative to OLAT that follows an open development process and encourages community involvement. The initiator of this new project is frentix GmbH, a spin-off of the University of Zurich, which was founded by one of the founders of OLAT and which provided commercial services for OLAT up to 2011. Since frentix was founded in 2006, the company has contributed major features to the OLAT code base and was responsible for a large part of the bug fixing.\n\nFor commercial customers, frentix provided OLATpro until the end of 2011, which contained features that were not a part of the public release. With the inception of OpenOLAT, many of the frentix features from the pro OLATpro release were ported to the public OpenOLAT open source release.\n\nIn release 8.2, the group management system was significantly improved. Release 8.3 added the OpenMeetings integration, and release 8.4 brought major changes to the chat infrastructure while also improving the performance and stability of the whole system.\n\nRelease 9.0 replaced the JavaScript framework ExtJS with the more light-weight jQuery, for which the whole JavaScript layer was refactored. In addition, the question pool was introduced, which allows collaborative creation and sharing of test questions.\n\nThe most recent release, version 10.0, includes a complete redesign of all visual aspects of OpenOLAT. The introduction of a responsive design paradigm based on Bootstrap makes OpenOLAT ready for mobile devices and small screen sizes. Also, the learning resources were split up into spearate areas for learners and authors, making them more intuitive and easier to use.\n\nOpenOLAT offers a lot of features for learners and teachers. A set of building blocks allow teachers to create courses using a variety of didactic methods while incorporating communication, collaboration and assessment. More learning resources and tools are available outside of the course system. Learning resources can also be made available to non-registered users, so-called guests. Using different booking methods, courses can also be made available at a cost.\n\nOpenOLAT contains many elements typical for learning management systems:\n\n\nThe course system is the central element in OpenOLAT. It is separated into areas for learners and authors. Users with author roles can create and manage courses and learning resources in the authoring environment. Using the various learning resources, many different learning scenarios can be represented in the integrated course editor, including areas for cooperation and collaboration. Learning resources can be created or imported, and can be integrated into one or even multiple courses by creating a reference. Changing a referenced learning resource changes it in all places where is used.\n\nTests in OpenOLAT are used to quiz participants and to prepare them for final exams. Tests can be created and managed in the authoring environment or directly in the course editor. They can either be imported or created using the built-in QTI test editor. OpenOLAT supports the IMS-QTI format, version 1.2. The questionnaire learning resource is useful for surveys. With the assessment tool and the test statistics, tests and questionnaires can be evaluated.\nThe assessment mode for courses allows authors to create exam settings in which tests and assessments are carried out in safe mode during a fixed time span. Adding IP addresses to a configuratioen enhances security. An assessment can be carried out in kiosk by adding the use of the Safe Exam Browser.\n\nThrough the role based authorization system in OpenOLAT, coaches can assigned to courses, groups, or individual users. Social tools like blogs, forums, wikis, podcasts, shared folders, mail, and chat enable communication and collaboration between OpenOLAT users. Groups can be used for projects independently from courses, and can be created by learners themselves, depending on the system configuration.\n\nOpenOLAT supports different visibility and access rules to courses and other learning resources based on user roles and groups. The OpenOLAT Portal is the personalizable start page for users.\n\nVisibility and access modifiers can be made dependent on time, groups, or previous achievements. So-called expert rules allow fine-grained control over which users have access to which learning resources. This enables different configurations of a single course for different users. Rules can be applied to whole courses or individually to each learning resource in a course.\n\nOpenOLAT has a customizable portal page, that users can personalize and adjust to their liking. Several portlets can be individually displayed and configured. Further personal tools and settings are found in the extendable personal menu.\n\nInstead of the portal, different pages or courses can be set up as start pages. Start pages can be assigned to different users or user groups depending on their roles or attributes, such as field of study or institution. Additionally, each user can choose to override this setting with their own start page.\n\nOpenOLAT has its own authoring environment, in which courses, learning resources and course elements are combined into elearning courses. This environment allows easy management of all courses and learning resources. Courses have their own course editor for course-specific resource management and configuration. Courses are shared among OpenOLAT instances in a zip file.\n\n\nOpenOLAT contains its own content packaging and test editors, which create IMS content packages and QTI tests. CPs and tests created in OpenOLAT can be easily exported and imported into other LMS, that also support these standardized formats.\n\nSystem administrators manage OpenOLAT in the administration tab. There, the default language can be set, the layout can be changed, quota and versioning settings can be adjusted, and many other settings can be changed to adapt the system to a variety of use cases.\n\nIn addition to the features contained in the public release, frentix offers some custom features to its customers.\n\n\nOpenOLAT is written in Java on top of the Servlet interfaces and runs on Windows, Mac OS X and Linux environments, typically on an Tomcat installation. It is developed and distributed under an Apache 2.0 open source license. UTF-8 support is built in, and well-known databases like MySQL and Postgres are supported. SSL is used to secure all data transactions with OpenOLAT.\n\nDue to historical reasons, OpenOLAT uses its own component-based MVC application framework. Hibernate is used as a database abstraction layer, Spring is used for configuration, Maven is used to support the build process, and Mercurial is used as revision control system. The user interface is written in HTML, CSS and JavaScript, and the built-in Ajax mechanism allows only those parts of the page that have changed to be refreshed.\n\nBecause OpenOLAT is still a young LMS, there is not yet any independent literature. However, basic principles are shared with OLAT and therefore its literature can still be relevant to OpenOLAT. Since OpenOLAT was forked from OLAT 7.1, literature from before the fork is at least still partially valid for OpenOLAT.\n\n"}
{"id": "9400783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9400783", "title": "Otis–Lennon School Ability Test", "text": "Otis–Lennon School Ability Test\n\nThe Otis–Lennon School Ability Test (OLSAT), published by the successor of Harcourt Assessment—Pearson Education, Inc., a subsidiary of Pearson PLC—is, according to the publisher, a test of abstract thinking and reasoning ability of children pre-K to 18. The Otis-Lennon is a group-administered (except preschool), multiple choice, taken with pencil and paper, measures verbal, quantitative, and spatial reasoning ability. The test yields verbal and nonverbal scores, from which a total score is derived, called a School Ability Index (SAI). The SAI is a normalized standard score with a mean of 100 and a standard deviation of 16. With the exception of pre-K, the test is administered in groups.\n\nThe test has twenty-one subtests that are organized into five areas—verbal comprehension, verbal reasoning, pictorial reasoning, figural reasoning, and quantitative reasoning—each with equal numbers of verbal and non-verbal items:\n\nThe number of questions and the time limit varies accordingly:\nThe Verbal section consists of Verbal Comprehension and Verbal Reasoning questions. The Verbal Comprehension questions are made up of four types of questions: Following Directions, Antonyms, Sentence Completion, and Sentence Arrangement. This section is used to evaluate a child's ability to observe and comprehend relationships between words, to build sentences, and to understand different definitions of words based on context. There are seven types of Verbal Reasoning questions: Aural Reasoning, Arithmetic Reasoning, Logical Selection, Word/Letter Matrix, Verbal Analogies, Verbal Classification, and Inference. This section assesses a child's ability to determine relationships between words, to observe similarities and differences, and to apply conclusions in different scenarios.\n\nThe Nonverbal section consists of three sections: Pictorial Reasoning, Figural Reasoning, and Quantitative Reasoning. In the Pictorial Reasoning section, there are three types of questions: Picture Classification, Picture Analogies, and Picture Series. This section evaluates a child's ability to reason using different images and illustrations, to find similarities and differences, and to comprehend and continue progressions.\n\nThe Figural Reasoning category is made up of four question types: Figural Classification, Figural Analogies, Pattern Matrix, and Figural Series. This section is used to assess a child's ability to utilize geometric shapes and figures in order to determine relationships, comprehend and continue progressions, and compare and contrast different figures. There are three different types of questions on the Quantitative Reasoning section: Number Series, Numeric Inference, and Number Matrix. This section assesses a child's ability to determine relationships with numbers as well as figure out and utilize computational rules.\n\nOLSAT score reports are received via mail approximately two months following the test. The OLSAT results are reported as the raw score; the School Ability Index (SAI), which compares the results to others of the same age group; and the percentile rank, which also ranks the result with others of the same age group.\n\nThere are seven different levels of the OLSAT designed for use from kindergarten to 12th grade. Each level of the OLSAT corresponds to a grade. For example, children in the 2nd grade generally take the OLSAT Level C. Some OLSAT levels correspond to more than one grade (e.g. the OLSAT Level A is administered to students in both pre-k and kindergarten). See the table below for each grade's corresponding test level. The OLSAT serves several purposes: it provides a marker for measuring individual year-to-year progress; some teachers may find it helpful for inferring individual educational needs; and for some school systems, it serves as an economical way to widely assess gifted and talented candidates in the early years.\n\nThe Level A OLSAT, the publisher’s lowest level, is designed to assess school abilities of kindergartners (up to a level of \"above average\"), but it assesses areas that are not universally taught \"(i.e.,\" it does not assess reading and math abilities). Some educators use the Level A test to assess preschoolers, but, for three-year-olds, require only 40 of the 60 questions. For four-year-olds, all 60 questions are given. Scoring is measured against peers in age groups of 3-month bands. For example, children born October 4 through January 4 are compared with each other and children born January 4 through April 4 with each other and so on.\n\nIn 2012 the New York City Department of Education (NYC DOE) adjusted its criteria for inferring gifted and talented needs of students in kindergarten through the third grade. Citing a disproportionate number of students scoring in the 99th percentile — the far right tail of the distribution curve — the NYC DOE replaced the Bracken (BSRA) with the Naglieri Nonverbal Ability Test (NNAT), and changed the weighting, lowering the OLSAT from two-thirds to one-third and giving the NNAT two-thirds.\n\nA local news source reported that many parents were unhappy about the decrease in the weighting of the OLSAT and the implementation of the NNAT. The objective, according to the NYC DOE, was to combat the advantages of children receiving pretest tutoring. The NYC DOE avers that the OLSAT is more preppable and the NNAT is less preppable.\n\nPrior to September 2006, the New York City public schools had long used the Stanford Binet for G&T screening. But after a competitive bidding process, the NYC DOE awarded a five-year, $5.3 million contract to Harcourt Assessment to provide testing materials for its pre-kindergarten through 2nd grade gifted and talented admissions, to provide professional development for teachers and administrators, and to provide parent informational materials. Under the contract, Harcourt will develop and implement the scoring methodology and closely track scoring trends to ensure proper test administration.\n\nThe name Otis-Lennon reflects the surnames of two people: (i) the \"pre-OLSAT\" developer of the original test, Arthur Sinton Otis, Ph.D. (who died before OLSAT was published) and (ii) the test editor and publishing executive, Roger Thomas Lennon, Ph.D., who adopted and marketed Otis' concepts as a \"school ability test\".\n\nOtis (28 July 1886 – 1 January 1964) is best known for the multiple choice intelligence tests he developed for the U.S. Army. As a doctoral student under Lewis Terman in 1917 he developed the group-administered tests titled the Army Alpha (for literates) and the Army Beta (for illiterates). Otis developed it to improve cost and time efficiency as compared to one developed by Alfred Binet (1857–1911), which was individually administered. Given in multiple-choice format and administered in groups, 1.7 million World War I recruits took the Army Alpha test. The results were published in 1921 and included the relative performance of recruits of different national origins.\n\nSome historians credit Fredrick James Kelly, Ph.D.,(1880–1959) of the University of Kansas, for inventing the multiple choice format (also known as Multiple Choice Questions or MCQ) in 1914. However, Otis was the first to use it on a large scale in the Army Alpha test.\n\nOtis was also a major contributor as a test editor for the World Book Company, which later became part of Harcourt Brace Jovanovich. World Book Company is not related to World Book, Inc., the Chicago-based encyclopedia publisher. The OLSAT was first published by Harcourt in 1979.\n\nLennon (1916–1986) was an executive and head of the testing division of Harcourt Brace Jovanovich as well as a chairman of one of its subsidiaries, The Psychological Corporation. Later he became a senior vice president of the publishing house. He retired in 1981 as associate to the chairman.\n\nAccuracy\n\nTest environment\n\nTest format for preschoolers\n\nPreparing for the test\n\n"}
{"id": "3699777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3699777", "title": "Persian studies", "text": "Persian studies\n\nPersian studies is the study of the Persian language and its literature specifically. It is differentiated from Iranian studies which is a broader, more interdisciplinary subject that focuses more on the histories and cultures of all Iranian peoples. \n\nThe study of language in Iran reaches back many centuries before Islam. The Avestan alphabet, developed during the Sassanid Empire, was derived from the Pahlavi alphabet and remained one of the most phonologically sophisticated alphabets until the modern period. The Zoroastrian liturgies until that point had been orally transmitted, and the ability to set these ancient texts in writing helped to preserve them. Even earlier than that, however, the invention of the Old Persian syllabary, whose shapes were adapted from preexisting cuneiform systems demonstrates that Iranian peoples could think critically, logically, and imaginatively about their language. \n\nThe coming of Islam announced the end of the world of Antiquity and the replacement of Zoroastrianism with Islam as the most important faith of the Iranian plateau. Iran became part of the great Islamic community, the Ummah, and saw the rise of Arabic as the new language of literature and learning. Iranian-born grammarians, rhetoricians, scientists, philosophers, theologians, contributed to the intellectual vitality of this new and vibrant civilization alongside other Muslims from other nationalities. Among the most prominent are:\n\n\nMany regions of this Arab Empire saw the almost total replacement the indigenous language by Arabic: the pre-Islamic languages of Syria, Iraq, Egypt, and North Africa exist only in isolated communities and have been largely replaced by Arabic. Not so in Iran, where the Persian language continued, albeit with an infusion of Arabic vocabulary, and thrived as the courtly language of the Islamic Orient. In fact it was in the Eastern reaches of the Caliphate, far from the seat of Arab power in Baghdad, where New Persian reemerged as a literary and courtly language.\n\nPersian was the \"lingua franca\" of a wide area, not limited to Iran. The first Europeans to encounter the Persian language were the envoys and diplomats of early modern European nations sent first to Ottoman Turkey and then to other places. The earliest motivation for the study of Persian was to win converts to Christianity.\n\n\nGrammars and dictionaries of the Persian language were first composed in the 17th century during which efforts were made to understand the \"Persian of the people.\" Later on, Persian as it was actually used declined in importance as Classical Persian literature was introduced to the continent.\n\n\nDuring this century, Europeans discovered the rich store of Classical Persian literature, and study of the Persian language meant study of the language as it was used in these works. The first edition of the Gulistan of Sa'di was published in 1654 CE. As British trade with the Indian subcontinent increased, the focus of learning Persian shifted to the \"colonial\" Persian of India.\n\n\nDuring this period of intense interest in the Orient, Persian proved to be one of the most important languages for the incipient field of Comparative Linguistics. Many scholars in prior centuries had commented on the similarities between Germanic and Iranian languages, but in the 19th century, scholars for the first time postulated a common ancestor to languages like Sanskrit, Persian, and European languages which has since come to be called the Proto-Indo-European language. \n\nAs important was the deciphering of Old Persian, the language of dozens of inscriptions which still stand in Iran. Sir Henry Rawlinson first discovered that the language of these inscriptions was an ancient form of the Persian language. Since these inscriptions often included inscriptions in other Cuneiform scripts, this decipherment became like a Rosetta Stone for the languages of ancient Mesopotamia. All that we know of the languages and histories of the empires of Babylonia, Assyria, Sumer, Elam, and so on is indirectly indebted to knowledge of the Persian language.\n\nDuring the Qajar dynasty, Iranians first encountered Europeans in the context of the rise of the West. Napoleon's expedition to Egypt in 1798 CE was the first European intrusion into the Muslim Middle East and prefigured many more disruptions for the peoples of this region, especially Iran. Iran lost territory in several wars with Russia and Britain. Iran's economy suffered greatly as European sea lanes bypassed the legendary Silk Road which had always been a pillar of Iran's economy. New industrial processes of production made traditional ways of living impossible for Iranians. As in many other countries during this time like Japan, China, and Turkey, a nationalist reaction occurred in Iran as Iranians realized the importance of modernizing as quickly as possible to fight off the encroachment of the Western powers. It was at this point that modern educational institutions in Western tradition were first opened in Iran. Iran would never be the same, and the study of language there merged with the tradition in Europe.\n\n\nLibrary guides:\n"}
{"id": "35378691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35378691", "title": "R. S. Subbalakshmi", "text": "R. S. Subbalakshmi\n\nSister R. S. Subbalakshmi (sometimes spelled Subbulakshmi or Subhalakshmi) (18 August 1886 – 20 December 1969), was a social reformer and educationist in India.\n\nSubbalakshmi was born at Mylapore in Madras as the first daughter of Visalakshi and R. V. Subramania Iyer (a civil engineer. Her father, R.V. Subramania Iyer was employed in the Public Works Department of the Madras Presidency). They belonged to an orthodox Tamil Brahmin family from the Thanjavur district. Subbalakshmi was ranked first in the public examination in the Chingleput District, for the fourth standard of the Madras Presidency at the age of nine. She was married while very young, as was customary, but her husband died soon after. In April 1911, she became the first Hindu woman to graduate from the Madras Presidency and she did this with First Class Honors from Presidency College, Madras.\n\nIn 1912, she founded the Sarada Ladies Union to provide a meeting ground and platform for housewives and other ladies to promote consciousness among them regarding social problems and to encourage them to educate themselves and the Sarada Illam or Widow's Home, which rehabilitated and educated child widows in Madras. Later, in 1927, she established the Sarada Vidyalaya under the aegis of the Sarada Ladies Union. \nIn 1922 she inaugurated the Lady Willingdon Training College and Practice School and was its first principal. She also established the Srividya Kalanilayam, a school for adult women at Mylapore in 1942, and while she was the president of the Mylapore Ladies Club, she formed the Mylapore Ladies Club School Society, in 1956, which was then renamed as the Vidya Mandir School, in Mylapore. In addition, she was involved in setting up a social welfare center for women and children in Madambakkam village. near Tambaram, in 1954.\n\nThe government of the British Raj honoured her with the Kaisar-i-Hind Gold Medal for Public Service in 1920, and in 1958, after independence of India, the Indian Government awarded her the Padma Shri.\n\nWhile she was in government service as Headmistress of the Lady Willingdon Training College and Superintendent of the Ice House Hostel, Subbalakshmi was prohibited from joining the Women's Indian Association. To keep her school running Subbalakshmi compromised on her beliefs and efforts against child marriage.Nevertheless, using her fluency in Tamil, she made efforts to abolish child marriage and to encourage education of girls. The historic, first conference, of the then newly established All India Women's Conference, called the \"All India Women's Conference on Educational Reform\", was held at the Fergusson College, Poona in January 1927. Subbalakshmi was one of the fifty eight prominent delegates attending this meeting. She actively supported the Sarada Child Marriage Restraint Act, passed in 1930, and appeared before the Joshi committee which formulated the Sarda Act instrumental in raising the marriageable age of girls to fourteen and boys to sixteen. After retirement, she was involved in the activities of the Women's Indian Association, through which she befriended Annie Besant and others. She served as a nominated member of the Madras Legislative Council from 1952 to 1956.\n\nSubbulakshmi died on 20 December 1969 on an Ekadashi Day.\n"}
{"id": "1046243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1046243", "title": "Reciprocity (cultural anthropology)", "text": "Reciprocity (cultural anthropology)\n\nIn cultural anthropology, reciprocity refers to the non-market exchange of goods or labour ranging from direct barter (immediate exchange) to forms of gift exchange where a return is eventually expected (delayed exchange) as in the exchange of birthday gifts. It is thus distinct from the true gift, where no return is expected. Reciprocity is said to be the basis of most non-market exchange. David Graeber argues, \"as currently used, 'reciprocity' can mean almost anything. It is very close to meaningless.\"\n\nWhen the exchange is immediate, as in barter, it does not create a social relationship. When the exchange is delayed, it creates both a relationship as well as an obligation for a return (i.e. debt). Hence, some forms of reciprocity can establish hierarchy if the debt is not repaid. The failure to make a return may end a relationship between equals. Reciprocal exchanges can also have a political effect through the creation of multiple obligations and the establishment of leadership, as in the gift exchanges (Moka) between Big Men in Melanesia. Some forms of reciprocity are thus closely related to redistribution, where goods and services are collected by a central figure for eventual distribution to followers.\n\nMarshall Sahlins, a well-known American cultural anthropologist, identified three main types of reciprocity (generalized, balanced and negative) in the book \"Stone Age Economics\" (1972). Reciprocity was also the general principal used by Claude Lévi-Strauss to explain the \"Elementary Structures of Kinship\" (1949), in one of the most influential works on kinship theory in the post-war period.\n\nAnnette Weiner argued that the \"norm of reciprocity\" is deeply implicated in the development of Western economic theory. Both John Locke and Adam Smith used the idea of reciprocity to justify a free market without state intervention. Reciprocity was used, on the one hand, to legitimize the idea of a self-regulating market; and to argue how individual vice was transformed into social good on the other. Western economic theorists starting with the eighteenth century Scots economists Sir James Steuart and Smith differentiated pre-modern natural (or self-subsistent) economies from civilized economies marked by a division of labour that necessitated exchange. Like early sociologist Émile Durkheim, they viewed natural economies as characterized by mechanical solidarity (like so many peas in a pod) whereas the civilized division of labour made producers mutually dependent upon one another resulting in organic solidarity. These oppositions solidified by the late nineteenth century in the evolutionary idea of primitive communism marked by mechanical solidarity as the antithesis and alter ego of Western \"Homo economicus\". It is this armchair anthropology opposition that originally informed modern anthropological debate when Malinowski sought to overturn the opposition and argue that archaic societies are equally regulated by the norm of reciprocity and maximizing behaviour.\n\nThe concept was key to the debate between early anthropologists Bronislaw Malinowski and Marcel Mauss on the meaning of \"Kula exchange\" in the Trobriand Islands off Papua New Guinea during the First World War. Malinowski used Kula exchange to demonstrate the apparently random gift-giving was in fact a key political process by which non-state political leadership spanning a vast archipelago was established. Gift-giving, he argued, was not altruistic (as it supposedly is in our society) but politically motivated for individual gain. Marcel Mauss theorized the impetus for a return as \"the spirit of the gift,\" an idea that has provoked a long debate in economic anthropology on what motivated the reciprocal exchange. Claude Lévi-Strauss, drawing on Mauss, argued there were three spheres of exchange governed by reciprocity: language (exchange of words), kinship (exchange of women), and economics (exchange of things). He thus claimed all human relationships are based on the norm of reciprocity. This claim has been disputed by anthropologists Jonathan Parry, Annette Weiner, and David Graeber amongst others.\n\nMarshall Sahlins has emphasized that non-market exchange is constrained by social relationships. That is, exchange in non-market societies is less about acquiring the means of production (whether land or tools) and more about the redistribution of finished goods throughout a community. These social relationships are largely kinship based. His discussion of types of reciprocity is located within what he calls the \"domestic mode of production.\" His typology of reciprocity thus refers to \"cultures lacking a political state, and it applies only insofar as economy and social relations have not been modified by the historic penetration of states.\" Paul Sillitoe has extended the analysis of reciprocity in these conditions, arguing that the type of reciprocity found will depend upon which sphere of production is being examined. The production of subsistence goods is under the control of domestic units and hence marked by generalized reciprocity. Wealth objects – by their nature from outside – are competitively exchanged to acquire status, but no one is able to control their production and hence centralize power.\n\nIn these circumstances, reciprocal exchange can be divided in two types: dyadic back-and-forth exchange (reciprocity), and pooling (redistribution). Pooling is a system of reciprocities. It is a \"within\" group relationship, whereas reciprocity is a \"between\" relationship. Pooling establishes a centre, whereas reciprocity inevitably establishes two distinct parties with their own interests. While the most basic form of pooling is that of food within the family, it is also the basis for sustained community efforts under a political leader.\n\nReciprocity, in contrast, is a dyadic exchange covering a range of possibilities, depending on individual interests. These interests will vary according to the social distance of the parties. A range of kinds of reciprocity can thus be sketched out, according to Sahlins:\n\n\nThis typology of reciprocal exchange was developed by Sahlins in relation to the domestic mode of production (i.e. 'stone age economics') and hence should be contrasted with the 19th century armchair conceptions of 'primitive communism.' Within this same domestic mode of production, the degree of social distance – kinship in particular – affects the kind of reciprocity. Since kinship is the major way in which these societies are organized, nonkin (strangers) are viewed negatively. A general model of reciprocity must recognize that the closeness of the kin tie will vary according to the type of kinship system. In so far as kinship also determines residence, kinship closeness may also translate into spatial closeness. Hence one finds generalized reciprocity within the household-kinship group, balanced reciprocity within a spatial community, and negative reciprocity with outsiders (i.e. outside the community). The kind of reciprocity reflects the moral nature of the social relationship, hence morality is not universal, but dependent on social distance. Sahlins' model thus views reciprocity as socially, morally and economically structured and \"the structure is that of kinship-tribal groups\" not a universalizing moral ethic.\n\nWith rank comes privileges. However, in traditional societies \"social inequality is more the organization of economic equality. Often, in fact, high rank is only secured or sustained by o'ercrowing generosity.\" Rank is usually generational, with elders having seniority, but still held by the bounds of close kinship. Generalized reciprocity by such elders may be a \"starting mechanism\" for more general hierarchy, by placing many in the giver's debt. This leads to the question, \"when does reciprocity give way to redistribution.\" Sahlins argues that chiefly redistribution is not different in principle and nothing but a highly organized form of kinship-rank reciprocity.\n\nDavid Graeber argues, in contrast, that balanced gift exchange and market exchange have more in common than normally assumed. Since both are balanced, the social relationship created through the sense of debt and obligation is constantly in danger of being ended by the return gift/exchange. He thinks it better to contrast\n\n\nThe alliance theory (or general theory of exchanges) is the name given to the structural method of studying kinship relations. It finds its origins in Claude Lévi-Strauss's \"Elementary Structures of Kinship\" (1949). According to Levi-Strauss, the universal prohibition of incest pushes human groups towards exogamy where certain categories of kin are forbidden to marry. The incest taboo is thus a negative prescription; without it, nothing would push men to go searching for women outside of their inner kinship circle, or vice versa. In a process akin to the division of labour which makes exchange necessary, one's daughter or sister is offered to someone outside a family circle, and starts a circle of exchange of women: in return, the giver is entitled to a woman from the other's intimate kinship group. Thus the negative prescriptions of the prohibition have positive counterparts. The idea of the alliance theory is thus of a reciprocal or a generalized exchange which founds affinity, just as economic exchange due to the division of labour resulted in organic solidarity. This global phenomena takes the form of a \"circulation of women\" which links together the various social groups in one whole: society. Lévi-Strauss emphasizes this a system of generalized exchange based on indirect reciprocity. A generalized system does not involve a direct or balanced dyadic exchange and hence presupposes an expansion of trust.\n\n"}
{"id": "17903600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17903600", "title": "Republic Polytechnic Library", "text": "Republic Polytechnic Library\n\nThe Republic Polytechnic Library [共和理工学院图书馆] serves the Republic Polytechnic and is located on the campus in Woodlands, Singapore. The library started its operations on June 18, 2003 from a temporary site in Tanglin Road. It relocated to the Woodlands campus site in February 2006. The current library was opened on the April 10, 2006, with of space.\n\nThe library was designed jointly by Japanese architect Fumihiko Maki and DP Architects. The library is situated at the heart of the Agora, a public space for the interaction and the exchange of information and ideas. In support of Republic Polytechnic’s pedagogical approach based on problem-based learning, the library spaces are flexible, adaptable, and less structured so that spontaneous activities can occur throughout.\n\nThe library started out in the Tanglin Campus, opening on the June 18, 2003, and was an actively used library for 3 years. It provided of space and was designed by the National Library Board with an aim of being trendy and inviting to teenagers. During these 3 years between 2003 and 2006, the library hosted more than 30 local music groups in a local music awareness programme created by Bob Tan of the Centre of Culture and Communication. It relocated to the Woodlands campus site in April 2006. The current library was opened on the April 10, 2006 with of space. It is currently managed by Cybrarian Ventures Pte Ltd, a wholly owned company of the National Library Board (NLB) of Singapore.\n\n"}
{"id": "41839486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41839486", "title": "Sadie Allison", "text": "Sadie Allison\n\nSadie Allison is Founder and CEO of Tickle Kitty, Inc., and author of how-to sex-help books. \nAs a self-proclaimed authority on human sexuality since 2001, her mission is to empower women and men to embrace a deeper enjoyment of their sexuality through education, inspiration and motivation.\n\nAllison earned her B.A. in French from San Diego State University, and completed studies at the Institute for Advanced Study of Human Sexuality in San Francisco. She is also a member of the American Association of Sex Educators, Counselors & Therapists (AASECT).\n\nAllison has appeared on \"The Tyra Banks Show\", E!, BetterTV, FOX, Discovery Health, Playboy TV, Dr. Drew's \"Loveline\", Howard Stern and \"The Bob & Tom Show\", and has been quoted in Cosmopolitan, Redbook, Men's Health, WebMD. She delivered a TEDx talk called “Fearless Giving–Turning Sexual Passion into Action”, sharing her concept for changing the world through fearless giving.\n\nAllison's books include \"Tickle His Pickle–Your Hands-On Guide to Penis Pleasing\", \"Ride ‘Em Cowgirl! Sex Position Secrets for Better Bucking\", \"Toygasms! The Insider's Guide To Sex Toys And Techniques\", \"Tickle Your Fancy: A Woman's Guide To Sexual Self-Pleasure\", \"Tickle My Tush: Mild-to-Wild Analplay Adventures for Everybooty\", and \"The Mystery of the Undercover Clitoris–Orgasmic Fingertip Touching Every Woman Craves\". This book, which is available in print and electronic form, is a sex education guide for men and women in the form of an \"illustrated guide cloaked as a detective mystery\". Each has won the Independent Publisher's Best Sexuality Book Award (IPPY), and together they’ve sold more than two million copies.\n\n"}
{"id": "23264998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23264998", "title": "Stiftung Lesen", "text": "Stiftung Lesen\n\nStiftung Lesen (Reading Foundation) is a non-profit organization based in Mainz, Germany under the patronage of Joachim Gauck. Stiftung Lesen acts as a stakeholder for reading promotion on a national and international level. It contributes to reading promotion and reading education through programmes, scientific research, and political recommendations.\nTo create a basis for the development of reading skills, and to enhance the overall level of literacy, Stiftung Lesen established adequate and accessible programmes for every member of society – regardless of financial, cultural or social background.\n\nIn 2006 Stiftung Lesen established its own Institute for Research on Reading and Media in order to align its projects with the latest scientific findings. The institute is tasked with conducting scientific research on the use of media, reading and reading socialisation, the supervision and evaluation of the foundation’s projects and the organisation of conferences on topics concerning literacy and media research (including reading in the digital age), publishing some of its reports for the German government.\n\nStiftung Lesen acts as an advocate for reading and media competency in Germany to ensure that every child and adult in Germany develops crucial reading and media skills, and enjoys reading. Stiftung Lesen’s initiatives and programmes as well as pilot and research projects complement and build on each other. The programmes support early infant development in the family and nurseries when the basis of reading competency is laid.\n. Older children and teenagers are reached through projects in- and outside school, covering their future development. In addition to the children benefitting directly, actors chaperoning the children’s development such as parents, childcare workers, teachers, booksellers and librarians are integrated in the programmes. To promote its activities the foundation has partnered with such well-known organizations as \"Die Zeit\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1170988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1170988", "title": "Student financial aid (United States)", "text": "Student financial aid (United States)\n\nStudent financial aid in the United States is funding that is available exclusively to students attending a post-secondary educational institution in the United States. This funding is to assist in covering the many costs incurred in the pursuit of post-secondary education. Financial aid is available from federal, state, educational institutions, and private agencies (foundations), and can be awarded in the forms of grants, education loans, work-study and scholarships. In order to apply for federal financial aid, students must first complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).\n\nIn the United States, grants come from a wide range of government departments, colleges, universities or public and private trusts. Grant eligibility is typically determined by financial need and academic merit. The application process is set by the agency providing the funds and often relies on data submitted via the FAFSA.\n\nWhile the terms \"grant\" and \"scholarship\" are frequently used interchangeably, there is a difference. Scholarships may have a financial need component but rely on other criteria as well. Some private need-based awards are confusingly called scholarships, and require the results of a FAFSA (the family's EFC). However, scholarships are often merit-based, while grants tend to be need-based.\n\nSome examples of grants commonly applied for in the U.S.: \n\nAn education loan is taken out by the student (or parent) in order to pay for educational expenses. Unlike scholarships and grants, this money must be repaid with interest. Educational loan options include federal student loans, federal parent loans, private loans, and consolidation loans.\n\nFederal student loans are loans directly to the student; the student is responsible for repayment of the loan. These loans typically have low interest rates and do not require a credit check or any other sort of collateral. Student loans provide a wide variety of deferment plans, as well as extended repayment terms, making it easier for students to select payment methods that reflect their financial situation. There are federal loan programs that consider financial need.\n\nDirect subsidized loans are the most sought, as they have few requirements other than enrollment and demonstration of financial need. However, the amount you may borrow is determined by your school and may not exceed your financial need, which is based on the EFC from your FAFSA. You are not required to begin repaying these loans for as long as you are in school at least half-time. They also offer a six-month grace period, meaning you do not begin repaying them until six months after you leave school. These loans also offer a deferment period in some cases.\n\nDirect Unsubsidized Loans are available to all undergraduate and graduate students, with no requirement to demonstrate financial need. Your school will determine how much you are allowed to borrow based on your cost of attendance and adjust for any other financial aid you are receiving. However, you are responsible for paying the interest on these loans even during school. If you choose not to pay interest while enrolled, your interest will accrue and be added to the principal amount of your loan.\n\nFederal parent loans are a federally funded loan option if the student is dependent on his or her parents. Parent loans allow parents to take out student loans, the repayment of which will be their responsibility. The parents use these loans to pay for educational expenses on behalf of the student. For undergraduate students there is the parent loan for undergraduate students or PLUS Loan. This loan allows parents to borrow up to the total cost of attendance, minus any other financial aid the student receives. Eligibility will be determined upon review of the parent's credit history.\n\nPrivate student loans are offered by private lenders (financial institutions). These loans typically have much higher interest rates, have fewer repayment/deferment options, cannot be discharged through bankruptcy, and are not supervised by any agency.\n\nConsolidation loans combine two or more student and/or parent loans into one loan. They are an option for those who find themselves struggling with multiple student loan payments. Consolidation loans are available for most federal loan types, and some private lenders offer private consolidation loans for private education loans.\n\nThe Federal Work-Study Program is a form of financial aid. Work-study jobs allow students to get campus jobs, when possible within their field of interest, and are more flexible than off-campus part-time jobs because they are designed to accommodate student schedules.\n\nWhile the terms \"grant\" and \"scholarship\" are frequently used interchangeably, there is a difference. Scholarships may have a financial need component but rely on other criteria as well. Some private need-based awards are confusingly called scholarships, and require the results of a FAFSA (the family's EFC). However, scholarships are often merit-based, while grants tend to be need-based.\n\nScholarships, similar to grants, do not need to be repaid. Scholarships come from state, educational institutions, and private agencies. Scholarships can be awarded based on merit, financial need, student characteristics (such as gender, race, religion, family and medical history, and the like), creativity, career field, college, athletic ability, among other categories.\n\nThere are search engines available to find scholarships such as Peterson’s, Unigo, Fastweb, Cappex, Chegg, The College Board, Niche (formerly known as College Prowler), Scholarships.com, Collegenet.com, and Scholarship Monkey.\n\nTo qualify for need-based aid a student must have a significant amount of financial need, which is determined by the federal government based on the FAFSA. Using the information submitted on the FAFSA, the U.S. Department of Education calculates a figure called the Expected Family Contribution (EFC). If the EFC is less than the cost of attending a college, the student has financial need (as the term is used in the U.S. financial aid system).\n\nSome well-to-do colleges have need-based aid of their own to distribute, in addition to federal and state aid (if any). These colleges require, in addition to the FAFSA, the CSS Profile financial form, which goes into greater detail.\n\nNeed-based financial aid is awarded on the basis of the financial need of the student. The Free Application for Federal Student Aid application (FAFSA) is generally used for determining federal, state, and institutional need-based aid eligibility. At private institutions, a supplemental application may be necessary for institutional need-based aid.\n\nA recent trend shows that what is purely need-based aid is not entirely clear. According to the National Postsecondary Aid Survey (NPSAS), SAT scores affect the size of institutional need-based financial aid. If a student has a high SAT score and a low family income, they will receive larger institutional need-based grants than a student with a low family income that has low SAT scores. In 1996, public higher education institutions gave students with high SAT scores and a low family income $1,255 in need-based grants. However, only $565 in need-based grants were given to students with low SAT scores who had low family incomes. The lower a student’s SAT score, the smaller the amount of need-based grants a student received no matter what their family income level was. The same trend holds true for higher education private institutions. In 1996, private institutions gave students with high SAT scores and a low family income $7,123 versus $2,382 for students with low SAT scores and a low family income. Thus, “institutional need-based awards are less sensitive to need and more sensitive to ‘academic merit’ than the principles of needs analysis would lead us to expect.” It has been found that increasing an SAT score in the range of 100-200 points can result in hundreds of dollars more in institutional grants and on average substantially more if one is attending a private institution.\n\nWhile providing financial information to the government is a reasonable expectation to calculate a student’s financial need, it does not necessarily follow that colleges should have access to this information. Providing that information to schools may be problematic because schools learn about students’ other sources of funding and may adjust their financial aid packages accordingly. There is an asymmetric information problem since schools have full knowledge of their customers' ability to pay while students and their families have little information about costs that colleges face to provide their services. That is, when planning for the next academic year, a school will know its current and projected costs as well as each student’s ability to pay after receiving state and federal grants. According to the Center for College Affordability and Productivity (CCAP), “If the federal or state authorities increase financial support per student, the institution has the opportunity to capture part or all of that increased ability to pay by reducing institutional grants and/or raising their charges for tuition, fees, room, or board.” Importantly, it also notes that “the exception to this general pattern is modest aid targeted at only low-income students, like the Pell grant.” The center uses data about net proceeds (tuition plus room, board and other fees) as a percentage of median income to show that financial aid practices have not been effective in decreasing prices in an effort to increase access. Net proceeds at public four-year institutions rose from 15% to 20% of median income from 1987 to 2008. In that same time, productivity has declined in the form of lighter teaching loads for professors and increased expenditures on administrative staff.\n\nNon-need based loans are available for students and families who cannot afford to pay the entire cost of college. These loans are directed toward those individuals and families who did not qualify for need-based loans due to the amount of their personal assets. There is usually a higher interest rate associated with non-need based loans. Because these loans are not need-based, the U.S. government does not pay the interest for the student while enrolled in school; they are often referred to as unsubsidized loans. The Unsubsidized Stafford Loan and Grad PLUS loan are non-need based loans available for both undergraduate and graduate students who do not qualify for need-based financial aid.\n\nEven though these loans are not subsidized, interest rates are set by Congress, the programs are closely supervised, and they provide many protections that private loans rarely offer.\n\nThere are also non-need based grants and scholarships that consider merit rather than financial need. These awards are granted by the college or university as well as outside organizations. Merit-based scholarships are typically awarded for outstanding academic achievements and maximum SAT or ACT scores. However, some scholarships may be awarded due to special talents like athletic scholarships, leadership potential, and other personal characteristics. In order to be considered for such awards some institutions require an additional application process while others automatically consider all admitted students for their merit-based scholarships.\n\nWith the yearly rising cost of tuition, room and board, and fees among schools across the nation, low-income students are finding it harder to pay for their education. In an attempt to help students meet the high, costly demands of college, schools have increased merit-based grants, for students with outstanding academic position, involvement in organizations, or high athletic talent. The issue is that these reasons for awarding scholarships take away from low-income students who often do not meet these merit standards. In other words, funds for merit-based scholarships are taking away from the already small amount of federal aid available to low-income students who simply cannot pay for college without some kind of financial aid.\n\nIn recent years, government has responded to the financial crisis students are facing and therefore passed legislation that boosted the value of grants for low-income students and trimmed subsidies for private education lenders. Schools have also taken action for the sake of students. Harvard University, a well-known costly but wealthy institution that had previously cut tuition for students whose families earned less than $60,000 a year, proceeded to cut costs by nearly fifty percent for those students whose families earned between $120,000 and $180,000 a year. Institutions will consider students' financial needs as well as their academic merit standing when applying for financial aid. Merit-based aid and need-based aid have been linked together for many financial aid scholarships. This relationship is beneficial as it underlies that one form of financial aid, particularly merit-based, is not completely taking over need-based aid. Statistics do show results of studies performed from 1992-2000 that the increase in financial aid awarded was based entirely on merit. However, when viewing numbers of both merit-based and need-based aid closely, the differences are not significant.\n\nThe following types of federal financial aid are available to graduate and professional students. Aid for these students is primarily loans.\n\nGraduate students may also be eligible for these financial aid programs:\n\nThere is little financial aid available for foreign students, with the unique exception of Canadian and Mexican students. A majority of aid is awarded as grants, scholarships, and loans that come through public and private sources which restrict their awards to American citizens. That being said there is financial aid still available for international students.\n\nThere are colleges and universities that offer aid to international students. To find out if the school in question offers such assistance inquire of the financial aid office of the institution. Some schools offer grants, loans and jobs, and give anywhere from 15 to 150 awards to foreign students. For example, schools such as Harvard, Princeton, University of Pennsylvania, University of Miami, Ithaca College, Cornell University, Johns Hopkins, University of Chicago, and University of Oregon all offer packages to foreign students. Graduate students may have more luck with financial aid. This is because graduate and teaching assistantships are offered on the basis of academic achievement, regardless of citizenship. Although International students are not eligible for the US government aid programs like the Pell Grant, SEOG Grant, Stafford Loan, Perkins Loan, PLUS Loan, and Federal Work study, many schools will ask international students to submit a FAFSA so that they may use the data for assessing financial need.\n\nThere is also assistance a student can seek from their native country. Canadian students attending colleges in the USA may obtain loans through the Canadian government’s Ministry of Skills, Training, and Labour. Alternative loans Canadian international students may apply for are the Canadian Higher Education Loan Program, Global Student Loan Corporation (GLSC), and International Student Loan Program (ISLP). Financial Aid for European Students can be looked by using Noopolis, a database in Italy run by CNR (the Italian equivalent of the US’s National Science Foundation). It has information regarding financial aid for Italian citizens to study abroad. There are also U.S. Educational Advising Centers throughout the world that assist prospective students by answering the questions they have about studying in the United States.\n\nPost-secondary institutions post a Cost of Attendance or Price of Attendance, also known as a \"sticker price.\" However, that price is not how much an institution will cost an individual student. To make higher education costs more transparent before a student actually applies to college, federal law requires all post-secondary institutions receiving Title IV funds (federal funds for student aid) to post net price calculators on their websites by October 29, 2011.\n\nAs defined in The Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008, the net price calculator’s purpose is: \n“…to help current and prospective students, families, and other consumers estimate the individual net price of an institution of higher education for a student. The net price calculator shall be developed in a manner that enables current and prospective students, families, and consumers to determine an estimate of a current or prospective student’s individual net price at a particular institution.”\n\nThe law defines estimated net price as the difference between an institution’s average total Price of Attendance (the sum of tuition and fees, room and board, books and supplies, and other expenses including personal expenses and transportation for a first-time, full-time undergraduate students who receive aid) and the institution’s median need- and merit-based grant aid awarded.\nElise Miller, program director for the U.S. Department of Education's Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS) stated the idea behind the requirement: \"We just want to break down the myth of sticker price and get beyond it. This is to give students some indication that they will not necessarily be paying that full price.\"\n\nThe template was developed based on the suggestions of an IPEDS’ Technical Review Panel (TRP), which met on January 27–28, 2009, and included 58 individuals representing federal and state governments, post-secondary institutions from all sectors, association representatives, and template contractors. Mary Sapp, Ph.D., assistant vice president for planning and institutional research at the University of Miami, served as the panel’s chair. She described the mandate’s goal as “to provide prospective and current undergraduate students with some insight into the difference between an institution’s sticker price and the price they will end up paying.”\nTo meet the requirement, post-secondary institutions may choose between a basic template developed by the U.S. Department of Education or an alternative net price calculator that offers at least the minimum elements the law requires. A recent report issued by the Institute for College Access and Success, \"“Adding it all up 2012: are net price calculators easy to find, use and compare?”, found key issues with the implementation of the net price calculator requirement. In “Adding it all up,” the authors state, “this report takes a more in-depth look at the net price calculators from 50 randomly selected colleges. While we found some positive practices that were not evident at the time of our previous report, net price calculators are still not reliably easy for prospective college students and their families to find, use, and compare”.\n\nAfter the requirement came into effect, the free website CollegeAbacus.org began creating a system that would allow students to enter the personal information once, and then use and compare net-prices of multiple schools. The Gates Foundation's College Knowledge Challenge announced College Abacus as one its winners in January 2013; the $100,000 grant from the Gates Foundation will enable College Abacus to expand from its beta version with 2500+ schools to a fully comprehensive version with all the colleges and universities in the United States.\n\nIn 2001, Princeton University became the first university in the United States to eliminate loans from its financial aid packages. Since then, many other schools have followed in eliminating some or all loans from their financial aid programs. Many of these programs are aimed at students whose parents earn less than a certain income — the figures vary by college or university. These new initiatives were designed to attract more students and applicants from lower socioeconomic backgrounds, reduce student debt loads, and provide the offering institutions with an advantage over their rivals in attracting commitments from accepted students. Most students prefer no-loan financial aid as a way to relieve the amount of debt they are in after college\n\nThe following colleges and universities offer such no-loan financial aid packages as of March 2008:\n\nSome universities have opted to have a \"loan cap\" program, which is a maximum loan — either per year or for the four years combined — designed to reduce the cost of attendance for low-income and middle-class students. The following schools have a loan cap program:\nIn a study on the correlation between the price of higher education and enrollment rates, Donald Heller finds that the amount of financial aid available for students is a strong factor in enrollment rates.\n\nDifferent factors have different effects on financial aid:\n\n\nNeed-blind admissions do not consider a student’s financial need. In a time when colleges are low on financial funds, it is difficult to maintain need-blind admissions because schools cannot meet the full need of the poor students that they admit.\n\nThere are different levels of need-blind admissions. Few institutions are fully need-blind. Others are not need-blind for students who apply after certain deadlines, international students, and students from a waitlist. Some institutions are moving away from need-blind admissions so that they can fulfill the full need of the students that are admitted. Meeting the full-need will probably increase the funds for financial aid. For example, Wesleyan University is only need-blind if it has enough money to satisfy the full need of admitted students.\n\nMost national governments provide student financial aid to students attending a university, even and especially in countries where education is free. Several of these countries even provide financial aid to students in secondary schools, especially but not only if they don't live with their parents. See student financial aid for a list of articles on such countries.\n\nProposed changes to government-financed student financial aid have engendered considerable debate in many countries, such as Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, the Netherlands, and Scandinavian countries. The heavy reliance on private subsidies seen in the United States is not common, although this may be changing.\n\nIn Germany, the main source of financial aid is provided by the Bundesausbildungsförderungsgesetz, colloquially known as BAFöG.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13762065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13762065", "title": "TELECOM Lille 1", "text": "TELECOM Lille 1\n\nTELECOM Lille (formerly ENIC) was a French public grande école (engineering school). \n\nTELECOM Lille was located on the campus of University of Lille in Villeneuve d'Ascq near Lille. TELECOM Lille was part of Institut Mines-Télécom.\n\nIn 2018, TELECOM Lille merges with the École des Mines-Télécom de Lille-Douai (IMT).\nFounded in 1990, ENIC (École Nouvelle d'Ingénieurs en Communication, Novel School In Communication) was created to answer the growing need for engineers having both technical and management skills. From the beginning, the school was built around a dual education system, in which professional internships are part of the school curriculum. This is still an essential aspect of the school training today.\n\nIn the years 2000, a new apprenticeship curriculum was created for students willing to spend half of their time in a company and the other half at school. The school has also developed a strong expertise in e-learning. The TuttelVisio and TuttelNet platforms have trained dozens of engineers every year since 2000.\n\nIn 2001, in order to reflect its membership to the world of Telecommunication and Information science, the school adopted the transitional name ENIC TELECOM Lille eventually adopting, on 22 December 2002, its official name, TELECOM Lille. Until 2006, the engineering degree was delivered jointly by Lille University of Science and Technology and Institut national des télécommunications. Since then, TELECOM Lille delivers the engineering degree in its own name.\n\nWith regards to the selection of students who successfully received their scientific high school diploma and wish to enroll the school initial curriculum, TELECOM Lille1 relies on the GEIPI (Groupement d'écoles d'ingénieurs publiques à parcours intégré) entrance examination, a joint entrance examination between several public engineering schools. However, the school operates its own screening process when it comes to the selection of students who wish to enroll the school apprenticeship curriculum or continuing training curriculum.\n\nStudies at TELECOM Lille encompass a wide range of fields related to Telecommunication such as Electronics, Computer science, Networking, Information Systems, Multimedia but also Human sciences, Management, Project management and two compulsory foreign languages (usually English and, Spanish or German). Depending on their background, students can enroll one of several curricula.\n\nThe initial curriculum (Formation Initiale, FI) is a five-year training which targets high school students who successfully passed their scientific high school diploma. It is split into the core curriculum and the engineering curriculum. The core curriculum, which lasts for two years, allows student to acquire the required knowledge in Mathematics, Physics, Electronics, Computer science and Economics. The engineering curriculum, which last for three years, is composed of three semesters that are common to all students as well as two scientific majors and one management major which students can choose. Several professional internships are required throughout the curriculum. During those five years, students may take one year off in order to study or do an internship abroad.\n\nThe apprenticeship curriculum is a three-year training which targets students who already have a two-year degree such as DUT or BTS. Students are apprentice and spend half of their time in a company and the other half at school.\n\nThe continuing training curriculum (Formation continue, FP) targets people who already have a two-year degree or more and who have at least three years of professional experience. The intensive training is followed full-time and can last from two to three years, depending on whether the \"level upgrading\" course was followed or not.\n\nThis curriculum is similar to the previous one. However, courses are followed using the e-learning technology TuTelNet (TTN).\n\nDepending on their curriculum, students can choose one or two scientific majors, in addition to one management major.\n\n\n\nThe teaching staff at TELECOM Lille is composed of professors and assistant professors (\"maîtres de conférences\") from Lille University of Science and Technology as well as professors from Telecom & Management SudParis or TELECOM Lille . The school also often calls upon the services of professional experts in their field.\n\nOfficial websites:\n\nOther :\n"}
{"id": "35252981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35252981", "title": "The Accreditation Institution", "text": "The Accreditation Institution\n\nThe Danish Accreditation Institution was established by Danish law as an independent institution in 2007. The institution consists of two entities; the Accreditation Council, which serves as the decision-making authority, and Accreditation Institution, which serves as the accreditation operator. The Council makes decisions on the accreditation of all higher education study programmes in Denmark, both new and existing.\n\nAs the decision-making authority, the Council is an independent unit in the Accreditation Institution. The chairman and members of the Council must between them possess knowledge and experience on quality assurance, higher education, research and labour market conditions for graduates. \n\nThe decisions of the Accreditation Council fall under the auspices of the following ministries:\n\nThe Council has nine members. At least one member must have international experience and one must be a student. Women and men are equally represented. The Council's decisions are made public in Danish on www.akkr.dk.\n\nThe Council's decisions are based on recommendations from the two accreditation operators, the Accreditation Institution and EVA.\n\nThe Accreditation Institution is the accreditation operator for bachelor, master's and professional master's programmes. The Accreditation Institution is an independent government institution made up of three secretariats and a management team. \n\nThe Professional Secretariat facilitates the accreditation of all Danish university study programmes. This involves preparation of a rotation plan for the study programmes, setting-up and preparation of expert panels to assess the study programmes, organising university visits and authoring the concluding reports. \n\nThe Council Secretariat prepares the Council's meetings and facilitates its contact and dialogue with stakeholders in different areas. These include the operators ACE Denmark and EVA as well as professional organisations, universities, student organisations, public authorities and the political environment, e.g. in the Danish Parliament. \n\nThe Administrative Unit reports to the director and undertakes assignments relating to communication, law, finance and general service functions.\n\nEVA is the accreditation operator of professional bachelor, academy profession and diploma programmes as well as the specialisation courses (adult education and continuing training). In addition, EVA undertakes evaluations, development activities and studies of early childhood education, primary and lower secondary education, upper secondary education, higher education and adult education.\n\nThe accreditation method involves a direct assessment of whether a study programme or an institution meets a number of predefined quality criteria. Accreditation is characterised by resulting in an authoritative approval/non-approval of a study programme or an institution. As a further result of the authoritative approval, the subject may obtain special rights such as the right to offer new study programmes and degrees.\n\nDanish accreditation involves both existing study programmes and new study programmes which must be accredited before they may be set up.\n\nIn Denmark, the quality and relevance of a study programme are assessed on the basis of five predefined criteria.\n\nAccreditation may result in three different decisions:\n\nThe accreditation method is based on the European standards and guidelines for quality assurance, the so-called ESGs. The ESGs were approved at the Bologna Ministerial Meeting in 2005 in Bergen, which set up a separate focus on professionalisation of quality assurance within higher education. The standards contain requirements for the universities, for external quality assurance and for external quality assurance institutions such as the Accreditation Institution and EVA. The Accreditation Institution and EVA are both members of ENQA, the European Association of Quality Assurance Agencies. The Accreditation Institution has also been included in the European Register for Quality Assurance Agencies, EQAR.\n\n"}
{"id": "4243579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4243579", "title": "The Bedford Reader", "text": "The Bedford Reader\n\nThe Bedford Reader is a college composition textbook published by the Bedford/St. Martin's publishing company. It is edited by X. J. Kennedy, Dorothy M. Kennedy, and Jane E. Aaron. It is widely used in freshman composition courses at colleges across the United States.\n\nThe eleventh edition of the book is composed of over seventy essays, one short story, and one poem. It is divided into eleven sections by the various methods of development: narration, description, example, comparison and contrast, analysis, process analysis, classification, cause and effect, definition, argument and persuasion, along with a section on mixing the methods.\n\nNumerous essays and stories by noted authors are included in \"The Bedford Reader\". These include:\n\n\nThe text quickly became a standard in college composition courses across the country. Because of the diversity of works and authors, \"The Bedford Reader\" has become popular among Advanced Placement English teachers, specifically those teaching to the AP English Language and Composition test.\n\n"}
{"id": "55485920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55485920", "title": "UNESCO Prize for Girls’ and Women’s Education", "text": "UNESCO Prize for Girls’ and Women’s Education\n\nThe UNESCO Prize for Girls’ and Women’s Education is an award, recognizing outstanding contributions to the advancement of female education. Supported by the Government of the People’s Republic of China, the Prize is conferred annually to two laureates. The prize awards USD 50,000 to each laureate to further their work in the area of girls’ and women’s education. Laureates are nominated by Member States, in consultation with their National Commissions, as well as non-governmental organizations in official partnership with UNESCO. They are recognized by UNESCO's Director General.\n\nGender equality in education is a basic right and a prerequisite to build inclusive societies. Although notable progress has been made over the last 20 years, 16 million girls will never set foot in a classroom.\n\nEstablished in 2015 by UNESCO’s Executive Board, the UNESCO Prize rewards activities that are innovative, and/or have far reaching sustainable impact in advancing girls’ and women’s education. It is the first UNESCO Prize of this nature and showcases successful projects that improve and promote the educational prospects of girls and women.\n\nThe Prize contributes to the attainment of the 2030 Sustainable Development agenda, particularly SDG goals 4 on education and 5 on gender equality. It also supports UNESCO’s global priorities included in the Medium-term Strategy 2014-2021 and the Gender Equality Action Plan 2014-2021 (GEAP II).\n\nNominations are made by Governments of UNESCO Members States via their Permanent Delegation to UNESCO, and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in official partnership with UNESCO. \n\nNominations are assessed by an international Jury on the basis of a comprehensive selection criteria including (1) impact, (2) innovation and (3) sustainability. The selection of laureates is made by the UNESCO Director-General based on the recommendation of the International Jury.\n\nThe two laureates of the first edition of the Prize were selected in 2016 by the Director-General of UNESCO, Irina Bokova, on the basis of recommendations by an International Jury of experts. The two outstanding projects selected in 2016 were the Female Students Network Trust from Zimbabwe and the Directorate of Early Childhood Education Development from Indonesia, who received their award at an official ceremony in June 2016.\n\nThe 2017 laureates included The Development and Education Programme for Daughters and Communities Center in the Greater Mekong Sub-Region (DEPDC/GMS) from Thailand and The Mini Academy of Science and Technology (MaCTec) from Peru. Both received their awards on the sidelines of the 9th BRICS Summit.\n\nThe 2018 laureates are the Misr El Kheir Foundation in Egypt and the Women’s Centre of Jamaica Foundation in Jamaica. Both have been awarded during a ceremony at UNESCO Headquarters on the International Day of the Girl 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "356844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=356844", "title": "University of Jena", "text": "University of Jena\n\nFriedrich Schiller University Jena (FSU; , shortened form \"Uni Jena\") is a public research university located in Jena, Thuringia, Germany.\n\nThe university was established in 1558 and is counted among the ten oldest universities in Germany. It is affiliated with six Nobel Prize winners, most recently in 2000 when Jena graduate Herbert Kroemer won the Nobel Prize for physics. It was renamed after the poet Friedrich Schiller who was teaching as professor of philosophy when Jena attracted some of the most influential minds at the turn of the 19th century. With Karl Leonhard Reinhold, Johann Gottlieb Fichte, G. W. F. Hegel, F. W. J. Schelling and Friedrich von Schlegel on its teaching staff, the university has been at the centre of the emergence of German idealism and early Romanticism.\n\n, the university has around 19,000 students enrolled and 375 professors. Its current president, , was elected in 2014 for a six-year term.\n\nElector John Frederick of Saxony first thought of a plan to establish a university at Jena upon Saale in 1547 while he was being held captive by emperor Charles V. The plan was put into motion by his three sons and, after having obtained a charter from the Emperor Ferdinand I, the university was established on 2 February 1558. The university, jointly maintained by the Saxon Duchies who derived from partitioning of John Frederick's duchy, was thus named Ducal Pan-Saxon University () or Salana (after the river Saale).\n\nPrior to the 20th century, University enrollment peaked in the 18th century. The university's reputation peaked under the auspices of Duke Charles Augustus, Goethe's patron (1787–1806), when Gottlieb Fichte, G. W. F. Hegel, Friedrich Schelling, Friedrich von Schlegel and Friedrich Schiller were on its teaching staff.\n\nFounded as a home for the new religious opinions of the sixteenth century, it has since been one of the most politically radical universities in Germany. Jena was noted among other German universities at the time for allowing students to duel and to have a passion for \"Freiheit\", which were popularly regarded as the necessary characteristics of German student life. The University of Jena has preserved a historical detention room or Karzer with famous caricatures by Swiss painter Martin Disteli.\n\nIn the latter 19th century, the department of zoology taught evolutionary theory, with Carl Gegenbaur, Ernst Haeckel and others publishing detailed theories at the time of Darwin's \"Origin of Species\" (1858). The later fame of Ernst Haeckel eclipsed Darwin in some European countries, as the term \"Haeckelism\" was more common than Darwinism. \n\nIn 1905, Jena had 1,100 students enrolled and its teaching staff (including \"Privatdozenten\") numbered 112. Amongst its numerous auxiliaries then were the library, with 200,000 volumes; the observatory; the meteorological institute; the botanical garden; the seminaries of theology, philology, and education; and the well-equipped clinical, anatomical, and physical institutes.\n\nAfter the end of the Saxon duchies in 1918, and their merger with further principalities into the Free State of Thuringia in 1920, the university was renamed as the Thuringian State University (Thüringische Landesuniversität) in 1921. In 1934 the university was renamed again, receiving its present name of Friedrich Schiller University. During the 20th century, the cooperation between Zeiss corporation and the university brought new prosperity and attention to Jena, resulting in a dramatic increase in funding and enrollment.\n\nDuring the Third Reich, staunch Nazis moved into leading positions at the university. The racial researcher and SS-Hauptscharführer Karl Astel was appointed professor in 1933, bypassing traditional qualifications and process; he later became rector of the University in 1939. Also in 1933, many professors had to leave the university as a consequence of the Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service. Student fraternities - in particular the Burschenschaften - were dissolved and incorporated into the Nazi student federation. The Nazi student federation enjoyed before the transfer of power and won great support among the student body elections in January 1933, achieving 49.3% of the vote, which represents the second best result. Between the Jena connections and the NS students wide-ranging human and ideological connections were recorded.\n\nWhen the Allied air raids to Jena in February and March struck in 1945, the University Library, the University main building and several clinics in the Bachstraße received total or significant physical damage. Completely destroyed were the Botanical Garden, the psychological and the physiological institute and three chemical Institutes. An important event for the National Socialist period was the investigation of the pediatrician Yusuf Ibrahim. A Senate Commission noted the participation of the physician to the \"euthanasia\" murders of physically or mentally disabled children.\n\nIn the 20th century the university was promoted through cooperation with Carl Zeiss (company) and also became thereby a mass university. In 1905 the university had 1,100 students and 112 university teachers, so this figure has since been almost twenty-fold. The Thuringian State University is the only comprehensive university of the Free State.\n\nSince 1995, there is a university association with the Martin Luther University of Halle-Wittenberg and the University of Leipzig. The aim is firstly to give the students the opportunity to visit with relatively few problems at the partner universities and events in order to broaden the range of subjects and topics. Currently e. g. has joined a cooperation in teaching in the field of bioinformatics. In addition, the cooperation provides the university management the opportunity to share experiences with their regular meetings and initiate common projects. So z. B. went from the successful bid to the German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv) from the University network. The co-operation continues at other levels: for example in a joint mentoring program for female postdocs or in the central German archives network. And last but not least, there are common sports activities.\n\nSince October 2014, the pharmacologist Walter Rosenthal is the president of the University; Chancellor is since 2007 the mathematician Klaus Bartholmé.\n\nThe university is organised into the following ten schools:\n\nResearch at Friedrich Schiller University traditionally focusses on both humanities and sciences. In addition to the faculties the following \"Collaborative Research Centres\" (German \"Sonderforschungsbereich\", short: \"SFB\") operate at the university:\n\n\nIn 2006 the research center, Jena Center - History of the 20th century, was founded. In 2007 the graduate school \"Jena School for Microbial Communication\" (JSMC) was established within the German Universities Excellence Initiative. In 2008 the Center for Molecular Biomedicine (CMB) and the interdisciplinary research center Laboratory of the Enlightenment were developed as research institutions. 2014 the \"Center of Advanced Research\" (ZAF) was established.\n\nJena University is one of the founder of The German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig, that was founded in 2013. It is a research centre of the German Research Foundation (DFG).\n\nFriedrich Schiller University is the only German University with a chair for gravitational theory and one for Caucasus Studies.\n\nAmong the collections which are open to the public are the Phyletic Museum, an institution which is unique in Europe for illustrating the history of evolution, the Ernst-Haeckel-Memorialmuseum, the Mineralogical Collection which traces its roots back to Goethe and the second oldest Botanical Garden of Middle Europe. The Schiller Gardenhouse and the Goethe Memorial at the Botanical Garden are reminders of the two towering geniuses of Jena. Both buildings are also open to the public.\n\nOriental Collections / Papyrus Collection\nArchaeological Collections\nNatural Sciences and Natural History\nMineralogy & Geology\nHistory of Sciences\nMedicine\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6623659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6623659", "title": "University of Technology, Jamaica", "text": "University of Technology, Jamaica\n\nThe University of Technology, Jamaica (UTech, Ja.), formerly the College of Arts, Science and Technology, is a public university in Jamaica.\n\nThe university was founded as the Jamaica Institute of Technology in 1958. The following year it was incorporated as the College of Arts, Science and Technology (CAST), and was formally recognised by an Act of Parliament in 1964. It was granted degree awarding powers in 1986 and a governing council and academic board were established. The college gained university status, under its current name, on 1 September 1995, and permanent provision for the university was made by the University of Technology, Jamaica Act 27, which became law on 29 June 1999.\n\nFrom just over 50 students and four programmes in 1958, UTech, Ja has grown to become Jamaica's premier national institution with a student population of over 12,000. It now offers more than 90 programmes at the certificate, diploma and degree levels through its five faculties and three colleges.\n\nThe University of Technology offers courses across eight colleges and faculties:\n\n\nDegrees of the university are either currently accredited or have been granted Candidacy for Accreditation status by the University Council of Jamaica. BArch and MArch degrees are additionally accredited by the Commonwealth Association of Architects.\n\nThe University of Technology, Jamaica currently has four campuses:\n\n\nThis institution offers over 100 programmes in various colleges and faculties. These are the College of Business and Management, the College of Health Sciences, the Colleges of Oral Health Sciences, the Faculty of the Built Environment, the Faculty of Science and Sport, the Faculty of Engineering and Computing, the Faculty of Education and Liberal Studies, and the Faculty of Law. The UTech Academy offers pre-university and all pre-graduate courses and programmes.\n\nCourses are offered at the certificate, diploma, undergraduate, and post-graduate degree levels.\n\nThe College of Business and Management comprises the Schools of Business Administration and Hospitality and Tourism Management, the Joan Duncan School of Ethics, Entrepreneurship and Leadership, and the UTech/JIM School of Advanced Management.\n\nComprises the School of Allied Health and Nursing, the School of Pharmacy, School of Public Health and Health Technology and the Institute of Health and Medical Sciences.\n\nConsists of the School of Natural and Applied Sciences, School of Mathematics and Statistics, Caribbean School of Sport Sciences and Centre of Science-based Research, Entrepreneurship and Continuing Studies.\n\nConsists of the School of Building and Land Management and the Caribbean School of Architecture, the only architectural school in the English-speaking Caribbean.\n\nThe Schools of Computing and Information Technology and Engineering fall within the Faculty of Engineering and Computing.\n\nContains the programmes of the School of Humanities and Social Sciences and the School of Technical and Vocational Education.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13376145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13376145", "title": "University of Wales Act 1902", "text": "University of Wales Act 1902\n\nThe University of Wales Act 1902 (2 Edw. 7 c. 14) was an Act of Parliament of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, given the royal assent on 22 July 1902.\n\nIt provided that if any office was stipulated as being open to graduates of the universities of Oxford, Cambridge, London, or the Victoria University, or any legal exemption was provided to graduates of those universities, then these privileges would likewise extend to the graduates of the University of Wales holding equivalent degrees.\n\nThe Act was repealed by the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1998\n"}
{"id": "42324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42324", "title": "Whole language", "text": "Whole language\n\nWhole language describes a literacy philosophy which emphasizes that children should focus on meaning and strategy instruction. It is often contrasted with phonics-based methods of teaching reading and writing which emphasize instruction for decoding and spelling. However, from whole language practitioners' perspective, this view is erroneous and sets up a false dichotomy.\n\nWhole language practitioners teach to develop a knowledge of language including the graphophonic, syntactic, semantic and pragmatic aspects of language. Within a whole language perspective, language is treated as a complete meaning-making system, the parts of which function in relational ways.\n\nCritics of whole language claim that it is just a \"latest embodiment of the anti-phonics side of the phonics-vs-anti-phonics war existing in some form in the U.S. since the 1830’s\", which keeps changing the terminology from \"whole-word\", \"look-say\", \"sight words\", \"meaning-emphasis\" to \"language experience\", \"eclectic\", \"psycholinguistics\", and now to \"whole language\" or \"literature-based\". It has drawn criticism by those who advocate \"back to basics\" pedagogy or reading instruction because whole language is based on a limited body of scientific research.\n\nWhole language is an educational philosophy that is complex to describe, particularly because it is informed by multiple research fields including but not limited to education, linguistics, psychology, sociology, and anthropology (see also Language Experience Approach). It can be viewed as being founded on the educational philosophy of John Amos Comenius in the early 18th century. Several strands run through most descriptions of whole language:\n\nSub-lexical reading involves teaching reading by associating characters or groups of characters with sounds or by using phonics learning and teaching methodology. Sometimes argued to be in competition with whole language methods.\n\nLexical reading involves acquiring words or phrases without attention to the characters or groups of characters that compose them or by using Whole language learning and teaching methodology. Sometimes argued to be in competition with phonics methods, and that the whole language approach tends to impair learning how to spell.\n\nThe idea of \"whole\" language has its basis in a range of theories of learning related to the epistemologies called \"holism\". Holism is based upon the belief that it is not possible to understand learning of any kind by analyzing small chunks of the learning system. Holism was very much a response to behaviorism, which emphasized that the world could be understood by experimenting with stimuli and responses. Holists considered this a reductionist perspective that did not recognize that \"the whole is greater than the sum of its parts.\" Analyzing individual behaviors, holists argued, could never tell us how the entire human mind worked. This is—in simplified terms—the theoretical basis for the term \"whole language.\"\n\nAn important element for most teachers is also the principle that education and learning are driven by engagement and engagement with reading is triggered through quality content. This dates back to the theories of John Amos Comenius, who first pushed for education to move away from dull rote learning. This is also reflects a fundamental element of the concern voiced by many educators over the use of pure phonics and the positivist view that you can accurately measure the development of reading sub-skills.\n\nGregory Shafer, a professor of English at Mott Community College, claimed that \"the seeds\" of the whole language movement were \"firmly rooted\" in the theories of linguist Noam Chomsky. In 1967, Ken Goodman had an idea about reading, which he considered similar to Chomsky's, and he wrote a widely cited article calling \"Reading: A psycholinguistic guessing game\". Goodman set out to determine whether the views of Chomsky could serve as psychological models of the reading process. He chided educators for attempting to apply what he saw as unnecessary orthographic order to a process that relied on holistic examination of words. Whether Goodman was indeed inspired by Chomsky, neither Chomsky himself nor his followers have ever accepted Goodman's views.\n\nGoodman thought that there are four \"cueing systems\" for reading, four things that readers have to guess what word comes next:\n\nThe \"graph\" part of the word \"graphophonemic\" means the shape or symbol of the graphic input, i.e., the text. According to Goodman, these systems work together to help readers guess the right word. He emphasized that pronouncing individual words will involve the use of all three systems (letter clues, meaning clues from context, and syntactical structure of the sentence).\n\nThe graphophonemic cues are related to the sounds we hear (the phonological system including individual letters and letter combinations), the letters of the alphabet, and the conventions of spelling, punctuation and print. Students who are emerging readers use these cues considerably. However, in the English language there is a very imprecise relationship between written symbols and sound symbols. Sometimes the relationships and their patterns do not work, as in the example of \"great\" and \"head\". Proficient readers and writers draw on their prior experiences with text and the other cueing systems, as well as the phonological system, as their reading and writing develops. Ken Goodman writes that, \"The cue systems are used simultaneously and interdependently. What constitutes useful graphic information depends on how much syntactic and semantic information is available. Within high contextual constraints an initial consonant may be all that is needed to identify an element and make possible the prediction of an ensuing sequence or the confirmation of prior predictions.\" He continues with, \"Reading requires not so much skills as strategies that make it possible to select the most productive cues.\" He believes that reading involves the interrelationship of all the language systems. Readers sample and make judgments about which cues from each system will provide the most useful information in making predictions that will get them to meaning.\nGoodman provides a partial list of the various systems readers use as they interact with text. Within the graphophonemic system there are:\n\n\nThe semantic cuing system is the one in which meaning is constructed. \"So focused is reading on making sense that the visual input, the perceptions we form, and the syntactic patterns we assign are all directed by our meaning construction.\" The key component of the semantic system is context. A reader must be able to attach meaning to words and have some prior knowledge to use as a context for understanding the word. They must be able to relate the newly learned word to prior knowledge through personal associations with text and the structure of text.\n\nThe semantic system is developed from the beginning through early interactions with adults. At first, this usually involves labeling (e.g. This is a dog). Then labeling becomes more detailed (e.g., It is a Labrador dog. Its coat is black.) The child learns that there is a set of \"dog attributes\" and that within the category \"dog\", there are subsets of \"dog\" (e.g. long-hair, short-hair). The development of this system and the development of the important concepts that relate to the system are largely accomplished as children begin to explore language independently. As children speak about what they’ve done and play out their experiences, they are making personal associations between their experiences and language. This is critical to success in later literacy practices such as reading comprehension and writing. The meaning people bring to the reading is available to them through every cuing system, but it’s particularly influential as we move from our sense of the syntactic patterns to the semantic structures.\n\nTo support the reader in developing the semantic system, ask, \"Does that make sense\"?\n\nThe syntactic system, according to Goodman and Watson, includes the interrelation of words and sentences within connected text. In the English language, syntactic relations include word order, tense, number, and gender. The syntactic system is also concerned with word parts that change the meaning of a word, called morphemes. For example, adding the suffix \"less\" or adding \"s\" to the end of a word changes its meaning or tense. As speakers of English, people know where to place subjects, which pronoun to use and where adjectives occur. Individual word meaning is determined by the place of the word in the sentence and the particular semantic or syntactic role it occupies.\nFor example:\n\nThe syntactic system is usually in place when children begin school. Immersed in language, children begin to recognize that phrases and sentences are usually ordered in certain ways. This notion of ordering is the development of syntax. Like all the cueing systems, syntax provides the possibility of correct prediction when trying to make sense or meaning of written language. Goodman notes the cues found in the flow of language are:\n\n\nTo support a reader in developing the syntactic system, ask, \"Can we say it that way? Does that sound right?\"\n\nThe pragmatic system is also involved in the construction of meaning while reading. This brings into play the socio-cultural knowledge of the reader. It provides information about the purposes and needs the reader has while reading. Yetta Goodman and Dorothy Watson state that, \"Language has different meaning depending on the reason for use, the circumstances in which the language is used, and the ideas writers and readers have about the contextual relations with the language users. Language cannot exist outside a sociocultural context, which includes the prior knowledge of the language user. For example, shopping lists, menus, reports and plays are arranged uniquely and are dependent on the message, the intent, the audience, and the context.\"\n\nBy the time children begin school, they may have developed an inferred understanding of some of the pragmatics of a particular situation. For example, turn taking in conversation, reading poetry or a shopping list. \"While different materials may share common semantic, syntactic, and graphophonic features, each genre has its own organization and each requires certain experiences by the reader.\"\n\nTo support the reader in developing the pragmatic system ask, \"What is the purpose and function of this literacy event?\"\n\nGoodman performed a study where children first read words individually, and then read the same words in connected text. He found that the children did better when they read the words in connected text. Later replications of the experiment failed to find effects, however, when children did not read the same words in connected text immediately after reading them individually, as they had in Goodman's experiment.\n\nGoodman's theory has been criticized by other researchers who favor a phonics-based approach, and present research to support their viewpoint. Critics argue that good readers use decoding as their primary approach to reading, and use context to confirm that what they have read makes sense.\n\nGoodman's argument was compelling to educators as a way of thinking about beginning reading and literacy more broadly. This led to the idea that reading and writing were ideas that should be considered as wholes, learned by experience and exposure more than analysis and didactic instruction. This largely accounts for the focus on time spent reading, especially independent reading. Many classrooms (whole language or otherwise) include silent reading time, sometimes called DEAR (\"Drop Everything And Read\") time or SSR (sustained silent reading). Some versions of this independent reading time include a structured role for the teacher, especially Reader's Workshop. Despite the popularity of the extension of Chomsky's linguistic ideas to literacy, there is some neurological and experimental research that has concluded that reading, unlike language, is not a pre-programmed human skill. It must be learned. Dr. Sally Shaywitz, a neurologist at Yale University, is credited with much of the research on the neurological structures of reading.\n\nBecause of this holistic emphasis, whole language is contrasted with skill-based areas of instruction, especially phonics and synthetic phonics. Phonics instruction is a commonly used technique for teaching students to read. Phonics instruction tends to emphasize attention to the individual components of words, for example, the phonemes /k/, /æ/, and /t/ are represented by the graphemes \"c\", \"a\", and \"t\". Because they do not focus exclusively on the individual parts, tending to focus on the relationship of parts to and within the larger context, whole language proponents do not favor some types of phonics instruction. Whole language advocates state that they do teach, and believe in, phonics, especially a type of phonics known as embedded phonics. In embedded phonics, letters are taught during other lessons focused on meaning and the phonics component is considered a \"mini lesson\". Instruction in embedded phonics typically emphasizes the consonants and the short vowels, as well as letter combinations called rimes or phonograms. The use of this embedded phonics model is called a \"whole-part-whole\" approach because, consistent with holistic thinking, students read the text for meaning first (whole), then examine features of the phonics system (part) and finally use their new knowledge while reading the text again (whole). Reading Recovery is a program that uses holistic practices with struggling readers.\n\nThis mixed approach is a development from the practice employed in the 70s and 80s when virtually no phonics was included in the curriculum at all. Theorists such as Ken Goodman and Frank Smith at that time advocated a \"guessing game\" approach, entirely based on context and whole word analysis.\n\nMost whole language advocates now see that children go through stages of spelling development as they develop, use and gain control over written language. Early literacy research conducted by Piagetian researcher, Emilia Ferreiro and published in her landmark book, \"Literacy Before Schooling\", has been replicated by University of Alabama professor, Maryann Manning. Based on this research \"invented spelling\" is another \"whole-part-whole\" approach: children learn to read by writing in a meaningful context, e.g. by writing letters to others. To write a word they have to decompose its spoken form into sounds and then to translate them into letters, e.g. \"k\", \"a\", \"t\" for the phonemes /k/, /æ/, and /t/. Empirical studies show that later orthographic development is fostered rather than hindered by these invented spellings – as long as children from the beginning are confronted with \"book spellings\", too.\n\nAfter its introduction by Goodman, whole language rose in popularity dramatically. It became a major educational paradigm of the late 1980s and the 1990s. Despite its popularity during this period, educators who believed that skill instruction was important for students' learning and some researchers in education were skeptical of whole language claims and said so loudly. What followed were the \"Reading Wars\" of the 1980s and 1990s between advocates of phonics and those of Whole Language methodology, which in turn led to several attempts to catalog research on the efficacy of phonics and whole language. This was a further turning of the wheel of conflict over how to teach reading that had been running for the whole century. \n\nCongress commissioned reading expert Marilyn Jager Adams to write a definitive book on the topic. She determined that phonics was important but suggested that some elements of the whole language approach were helpful. Two large-scale efforts, in 1998 by the United States National Research Council's Commission on Preventing Reading Difficulties in Young Children and in 2000 by the United States National Reading Panel, catalogued the most important elements of a reading program. While proponents of whole language find the latter to be controversial, both panels found that phonics instruction of varying kinds, especially analytic and Synthetic Phonics, contributed positively to students' ability to read words on tests of reading words in isolation. Both panels also found that embedded phonics and no phonics contributed to lower rates of achievement for most populations of students when measured on test of reading words in isolation. The Panel recommended an approach it described as \"scientifically-based reading research\" (SBRR), that cited 5 elements essential to effective reading instruction, one of which was explicit, Systematic Phonics instruction (phonological awareness, reading comprehension, vocabulary, and fluency were the other 4).\n\nIn December 2005 the Australian Government endorsed the teaching of synthetic phonics, and discredited the whole language approach (\"on its own\"). Its Department of Education, Science and Training published a National Inquiry into the Teaching of Literacy. The report states \"The evidence is clear, whether from research, good practice observed in schools, advice from submissions to the Inquiry, consultations, or from Committee members’ own individual experiences, that direct systematic instruction in phonics during the early years of schooling is an essential foundation for teaching children to read.\" Pg 11. See Synthetic phonics#Acceptance in Australia\n\nIn 2006 the U.K. Department for Education and Skills undertook a review of early reading that came out in favor of Synthetic phonics. Subsequently, in March 2011 the U.K. Department of Education released its White paper entitled \"The Importance of Teaching\" that supported systematic synthetic phonics as the best method for teaching reading.\n\nDespite these results, many whole language advocates continue to argue that their approach, including embedded phonics, has been shown to improve student achievement. Whole language advocates sometimes criticize advocates of skill instruction as \"reductionist\" and describe the use of phonics as \"word calling\" because it does not involve the use of meaning. The United States National Reading Panel is criticized especially harshly by some in the whole language community for failing to include qualitative research designs that showed benefits for embedded phonics (the panel only considered experiments and quasi-experiments). On the other hand, some parents and teachers have objected to the de-emphasis on phonics in whole language-based curricula such as Reading Recovery and advocated their removal from schools.\n\nIn 1996 the California Department of Education lead the way in returning to the teaching of phonics. By 2014 the department had clear guidelines for teaching children in phonemic awareness, phonics, and segmenting and blending. The New York Public School System followed; and by 2015 had abandoned Whole Language, Embedded Phonics and Balanced Literacy in favor of systematic phonics.\n\nNeuroscientists have also weighed into the debate, some of them demonstrating that the whole word method is much slower and uses the wrong brain area for reading.\n\nWhile rancor continues, much of whole language's emphasis on quality literature, cultural diversity, and reading in groups and to students is widely supported by the educational community due to its benefits of increased comprehension. The importance of motivation, long a central focus of whole language approaches, has gained more attention in the broader educational community in the last few years. Prominent critic of whole language Louisa Cook Moats has argued, however, that the foci on quality literature, diversity, reading groups, and motivation are not the sole property of whole language. She, and others, contend these components of instruction are supported by educators of diverse educational perspectives. As one report states \"Reading materials must be carefully chosen so as to be at the right reading level. Phonics instruction cannot stand alone\". Moats contends that the principles essential to Whole Language, and those that render it ineffective and unfit for reading education are a) children learn to read from exposure to print, b) the hostility to drilling in phonics and other forms of direct instruction, and c) the tendency to endorse the use of context-clues and guess-work to decipher a word rather than phonemic decoding. In these and certain other tenets lie the essence and the error of Whole Language. Emphases on cultural diversity and quality literature is neither limited to Whole Language nor fundamental to it.\n\nSince 1996 \"balanced literacy\" has been suggested as an integrative approach, portrayed by its advocates as taking the best elements of both whole language and code-emphasizing phonics, something advocated by Adams in 1990. In 1996 the California Department of Education described the balanced approach as \"one which combines the language and literature-rich activities associated with whole language with explicit teaching of the skills needed to decode words-for all children.\" The New York Public School system adopted balanced literacy as its literacy curriculum in 2003 ; however in 2015 it began a process to revise its English Language Arts Learning Standards. The new standards call for teaching involving \"reading or literacy experiences\" as well as phonemic awareness from prekindergarten to grade 1 and phonics and word recognition from grade 1 to grade 4. Critics of balance literacy have suggested that the term is just the disingenuous recasting of the very same whole language with obfuscating new terminology. Equally vociferously, the whole language advocates have criticized the United States National Reading Panel. Allington used the term \"big brother\" to describe the government's role in the reading debate.\n\nNo Child Left Behind has brought a resurgence of interest in phonics. Its \"Reading First\" program addresses the reading deficiency in elementary students and requires that students must be explicitly and systematically taught five skills: phonemic awareness, phonics, vocabulary, comprehension, fluency. During the 2000s whole language receded to marginal status, and continues to fade.\n\nProminent proponents of whole language include Kenneth Goodman, Frank Smith, Carolyn Burke, Jerome Harste, Yetta Goodman, Dorothy Watson, Regie Routman, Stephen Krashen, and Richard Allington.\n\nWidely known whole language critics include Rudolf Flesch, Louisa Cook Moats, G. Reid Lyon, James Kauffman, Phillip Gough, Keith Stanovich, Diane McGuinness, Steven Pinker, David C. Geary, Douglas Carnine, Edward Kame'enui, Jerry Silbert, Lynn Melby Gordon, Diane Ravitch, and Jeanne Chall.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3224306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3224306", "title": "Young Enterprise", "text": "Young Enterprise\n\nYoung Enterprise is a not-for-profit business and enterprise education charity in England & Wales. It is made up of three organisations, Young Enterprise, Young Enterprise Scotland and Young Enterprise Northern Ireland, the latter two operating individually under a licence agreement to the former. Young Enterprise's mission statement is \"to inspire and equip young people to learn and succeed through enterprise.\"\n\nSir Walter Salomon founded Young Enterprise in the 1962/1963 academic year, based on the American Junior Achievement programme. By the 1973/1974 academic year, there were twenty-two area boards across the UK running Young Enterprise programmes. In 1977, the European Federation of Young Enterprise was formed, with the UK, France and Belgium amongst the founding members. This was then renamed in 2002 to 'Junior Achievement/ Young Enterprise Europe'.\n\nIn the 1980s, the Company Competition began to take on the form it has today. Young Enterprise companies would submit reports to judges who selected the best from each region. The six regional winners were then invited to attend the National Finals in London, where they would deliver a presentation. Midland Bank (now HSBC) also took on the Chairmanship of Young Enterprise in 1988.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Young Enterprise became less centralised. On August 26, 1991, Young Enterprise Scotland became an independent charity operating under licence from the main UK organisation. Similarly, Young Enterprise Northern Ireland was formed in August 1997. Wales followed suit, with its own organisation in October 1999. Aside from decentralising its operation, Young Enterprise also introduced new programmes during the 1990s. Project Business was launched in 1995, International Trading and Entrepreneurship Masterclass in 1997, and a Graduate Programme in 1998.\n\nIn the 2000s, Young Enterprise continued to launch new programmes and reorganise its regional structure. The Primary Programme, originally run in Northern Ireland, was introduced the rest of the UK in 2000. In 2002, the charity's structure was finalised, with 12 autonomous regional organisations throughout the country. 2003 saw the introduction of a further two programmes, Learn to Earn and Enterprise in Action. Young Enterprise's ninth programme, Personal Economics, then launched in 2005.\n\nYoung Enterprise currently runs a number of programmes for different age groups and durations. These are split up into company-based programmes and classroom-based programmes.\n\nIn the 2005/2006 academic year, 45,872 students ran 3,783 companies, making up 14.1% of the activity that year.\n\nAimed at ages 15–19 and run during the course of an academic year, this is the core programme run by Young Enterprise. Students form a business and elect a board of directors from among themselves, raise share capital, then create, sell, and market products, attempting to generate profits. While the amount of capital they have to work with is not enormous, significant profits can be produced. One company, Force-7, made a net profit of £5,215 on revenues of £27,442 from £420 initial shareholder capital. Business advisors, volunteers arranged by Young Enterprise, are allocated to their business to mentor students. Another Company, BENSevent, a company that offered youth between the ages of 15 to 18 in the northwest region of Skåne, Sweden, entertainment events of high quality had a revenue of £21 200 with a profit of £4 000 with £20 initial shareholder capital. The two most popular Young Enterprise companies are Company 4 Music and Bloom, according to Facebook statistics.\n\nThere is also a multi-layered competition element to find the best overall companies and departments at local, regional and national level. Candidate business have to create a trade stand and a presentation based on their specific businesses history and their product performance in the marketplace.\n\nAt each of these events - local, regional and national level - judges mark each businesses' efforts and present awards that often include Best Presentation, Best Innovation, and Best Trade Stand. Success in these awards counts towards the likelihood of a Young Enterprise company being presented with the Best Overall Company award at each level.\n\nThis programme, aimed at ages 15–19+, takes place over 1 or 2 academic years. Students who have experienced difficulties with their learning form a company and work together, meeting every week. Each company is supported by a volunteer from business who works with the students to mentor and advise them.\n\nMassively updated and relaunched in September as the Start-up Programme the former Graduate Programme has more features and is now completely age appropriate.\nTargeted at students in higher education, this programme runs for a full academic year. Participants set up and run their own company, whilst being mentored by a volunteer business advisor assigned by Young Enterprise.\n\nIn the 2005/2006 academic year, 244,000 students took part in 5,562 classroom-based programmes, making up 75.1% of the activity that year.\n\nAimed at ages 4–11, this programme is subdivided into 6 modules for each year of primary education, with 5 sessions in each module.\n\nThis programme, aimed at ages 12–15, revolves around students designing, planning, building and promoting a model for a prototype product. An interactive business context is then simulated over the Internet. The Enterprise in Action programme is run over 2 days or over a 7-week period.\n\nAimed at ages 13–15, this programme comprises six sessions, run over a six-week period or as a one-day seminar. It is designed to show students the link between their education and their future success.\n\nRuns over five one-hour weekly sessions or as a one-day or two-day seminar, this programme is aimed at ages 12–15 and introduces the concepts of personal finance, credit and debt, savings, investments and budgeting.\n\nAimed at ages 13–15, this six session programme is presented over 6 weeks or as a 1-day seminar. It is designed to give participating students an activity-based insight into economic and business life.\n\nThis full or half-day seminar is aimed at ages 15+ and is designed to inspire students through talks given by entrepreneurs.\n\nOnly available in Northern Ireland, this programme is aimed at ages 14–16 and focuses on personal development.\n\nTypically, students who have participated in Young Enterprise will have a better understanding of entrepreneurship and business than their peers. Research conducted by FreshMinds found that students who complete the Company Programme typically earn between £40,000 and £45,000 after they reach the age of 30. In contrast, their classmates who did not take part in the programme, earn £26,000 to £30,000. Nearly 60% of those who had been on the Company Programme said they had a \"good understanding\" of career options when they left school, while 46% of those who did not take part did. It was also found that Young Enterprise alumni are twice as likely to start up their own company than their peers.\n\n"}
