{"id": "57288142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57288142", "title": "Aaron Traywick", "text": "Aaron Traywick\n\nAaron Traywick (December 19, 1989 – April 29, 2018) was an American life extension activist in the transhumanism and biohacking communities and former founding CEO of Ascendance Biomedical. He sought to develop gene therapies to make inexpensive treatments available for incurable conditions such as AIDS and the herpes simplex virus. His lack of any medical training and his unconventional methods—such as broadcasting an associate injecting himself with an “untested experimental gene therapy”, then later doing the same to himself in an onstage public demonstration—drew widespread criticism. \n\nHe was found dead under unexplained circumstances in April 2018.\n\nAaron Traywick was a resident of Elmore, Alabama, and a graduate of Stanhope Elmore High School. He graduated from the University of Montevallo in Alabama with a degree in interdisciplinary studies; he held no background in the sciences or formal training in clinical medicine.\n\nIn 2016 he worked to advocate investment in radical approaches towards anti-aging at the Global Healthspan Policy Institute. In 2017 he founded Ascendance Biomedical in Washington, D.C. with the mission to “make cutting edge biomedical technologies available for everyone”. \n\nTraywick's self-administered DIY homemade gene therapies received substantial media attention. In October 2017, Ascendance Biomedical shared a live broadcast of Traywick's associate Tristan Roberts injecting himself with an “untested experimental gene therapy” for HIV over Facebook's live-streaming service.During a presentation at the February 2018 BioHacking Con in Austin, Texas, Traywick injected himself with something he referred to at the time as a “research compound”. In a later conversation with BBC reporters, he spoke of it as a “treatment” for Herpes Virus, a term with a specific meaning subject to FDA regulations. Shortly after the event, the FDA issued a statement on the inherent dangers of this approach to untested gene editing, without mentioning the company by name:\n\nAt the time of his death, Traywick was planning a CRISPR gene therapy trial for the treatment of lung cancer in Tijuana, Mexico, and served as managing director for Inovium Rejuvenation, which was conducting pre-enrollment for FDA-approved trials in several US locations to reverse menopause, rejuvenate ovaries, restore fertility, and bring hormone levels back in line with those found in youth.\n\nHe was featured as a subject in an as-yet unreleased documentary film directed by Ford Fischer: \"Transhuman: Biohackers and Immortalists.\"\n\nTraywick was found unconscious in a sensory deprivation isolation tank, or “float pod”, at Soulex Float Spa in Washington, D.C. on April 29, 2018. A spa spokesperson informed reporters that the spa's co-owner arrived twenty minutes after Traywick's float session was scheduled to end, and asked why someone was still in the float room. The door was closed although unlocked. The room was dark, though its automatic lights should have been activated when the tank's lid was opened. Traywick was discovered in the tank, which had automatically drained by that point. Emergency responders arrived within four minutes of the spa's 911 call.\n\nTraywick’s body was taken to the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner for an autopsy. A spokesperson for the spa told reporters that DC police twice told her they found drug paraphernalia among Traywick's belongings; DC police did not confirm this point. Toxicology reports were said to be expected six to ten weeks following autopsy.\n\nAn autopsy report provided to Bloomberg News on June 28 by the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner showed that he accidentally drowned with the drug ketamine in his system. Ketamine, a dissociative anesthetic, is sometimes used as a recreational drug.\n\nThe U.S. Transhumanist Party issued an official statement about his death, saying it was, as far as they were aware, a \"tragic accident\".\n\nTraywick was 28 years old.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "351556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=351556", "title": "Anna Leopoldovna", "text": "Anna Leopoldovna\n\nAnna Leopoldovna (; 18 December 1718 – 19 March 1746), born as Elisabeth Katharina Christine von Mecklenburg-Schwerin and also known as Anna Carlovna (А́нна Ка́рловна), was regent of Russia for a few months in 1740 and 1741 during the minority of her infant son Emperor Ivan VI.\n\nAnna Leopoldovna was born as Elisabeth Katharina Christine, the daughter of Karl Leopold, Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin, by his wife Catherine, the eldest daughter of Tsar Ivan V of Russia. Catherine's father, Ivan V, was the elder brother and co-ruler of Russia with Peter the Great, but because he was mentally challenged and unfit to rule, all the power was in the hands of Peter the Great, who was like a father to Catherine and who looked out for her interest as long as he was alive.\n\nElisabeth's mother Catherine was the third wife of Duke Karl Leopold, who had divorced his first two wives after very short marriages (less than two years each). Catherine was the only wife ever to bear him a living child, and Elizabeth was that single child. In 1721, when Elizabeth was three years old, her mother became pregnant a second time, but the child was stillborn. By this time, the marriage between her parents was in trouble, and in 1722, Catherine returned to the court of her uncle Peter the Great. She took her daughter with her, and Elizabeth therefore grew up in Russia, having little or no contact with her father.\n\nIn 1730, Tsar Peter II, who was the last surviving male member of the Romanov dynasty, died unwed, and his dynasty died with him. The Russian privy council debated about whom to invite to the throne, and Anna's mother Catherine was one of the candidates who was considered. However, she was passed over for several reasons and the throne was offered to her younger sister, Anna Ivanovna, who became known to history as Empress Anna of Russia. The new Empress was a childless widow with only one surviving sister, Catherine, and Elizabeth was Catherine's only child. Her position at court was therefore a important one.\n\nIn 1733, Elisabeth converted to the Russian Orthodox Church and was given the name Anna Leopoldovna, which was a complement to her aunt, Empress Anna, and also of her father, Karl Leopold, Duke of Mecklienburg-Schwerin. Her conversion to the orthodox faith made her acceptable as heiress to the throne, but she was never actually declared heiress by her aunt. In 1739, Anna Leopoldovna (as she was now known) was given in marriage to Anthony Ulrich (1714–1776), the second son of Ferdinand Albert, Duke of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel. Anthony Ulrich had lived in Russia since 1733 so that he and his bride could get to know each other better, He was able to do this because he was a younger son, and it was improbable that he would be called upon to shoulder the responsibility of ruling his father's principality. Both of these circumstances clearly indicate that Empress Anna intended her niece to inherit her throne, and was laying the ground for it by selecting a husband of suitable birth and situation, and observing him at close quarters for several years before the marriage was celebrated.\n\nOn 5 October 1740, the empress Anna adopted their newborn son Ivan and proclaimed him heir to the Russian throne. On 28 October, just a few weeks after this proclamation, the empress died, leaving directions regarding the succession and appointing her favourite Ernest Biron, Duke of Courland, as regent.\n\nBiron, however, had made himself an object of detestation to the Russian people. After Biron threatened to exile Anna and her spouse to Germany, she had little difficulty working with Field Marshal Burkhard Christoph von Münnich to overthrow him. The coup succeeded and she assumed the regency on 8 November, taking the title of Grand Duchess. Field Marshal Münnich personally arrested Biron in his apartment, where the formerly tyrannical Biron ingloriously begged for his life on his knees.\n\nAnna knew little of the character of the people with whom she had to deal, knew even less of the conventions and politics of Russian government, and speedily quarrelled with her principal supporters.\n\nAccording to the \"Dictionary of Russian History\", she ordered an investigation of the garment industry when new uniforms received by the military were found to be of inferior quality. When the investigation revealed inhuman conditions she issued decrees mandating a minimum wage and maximum working hours in that industry as well as the establishment of medical facilities at every garment factory. She also presided over a brilliant victory by Russian forces at the Battle of Villmanstrand in Finland after Sweden had declared war against her Government. \n\nShe had an influential favourite, Julia von Mengden. Anna's love life took up much time, as the bisexual Anna was involved simultaneously in what were described as \"passionate\" affairs with the Saxon ambassador Count Mozritz zu Lynar and her lady-in-waiting Mengden. Anna's husband did his best to ignore the affairs. After becoming Regent, Anton was marginalized, being forced to sleep in another palace while Anna took either Lynar, Mengden or both to bed with her. At times the grand duke would appear to complain about being \"cuckolded\", but he was always sent away. At one point, Anna proposed to have Lynar marry Mengden in order to unite the two people closest to her in the world together. The regent's relationship with Mengden caused much disgust in Russia, though the French historian Henri Troyat wrote that amongst the many libertines of St. Petersburg Anna's \"sexual eclecticism\" in having both a man and a woman as her lovers was seen as a sign of Anna's open-mindedness. More damagingly, many in the Russian elite believed that at the age of twenty-two Anna was too young and immature to be the Regent of Russia and that her preoccupation with her relationships with Lynar and Mengden at the expense of governing Russia made her a danger to the state. \n\nTroyat described Anna as an \"indolent day-dreamer\" who spent her mornings reading novels in bed, only got up in the afternoon, liked to wander around her apartment barely dressed with her hair undone, and was principally interested in reading novels. Anna's preference for handing out government jobs to Baltic German aristocrats caused much resentment on the part of the ethnic Russian nobility who not for the first nor last time complained that a disproportionate number of Baltic Germans were holding high office.\n\nIn December 1741, Elizabeth, the daughter of Peter the Great, excited the guards to revolt, having already become a favorite of theirs. The coup overcame the insignificant opposition and was supported by the ambassadors of France and Sweden, owing to the pro-British and pro-Austrian policies of Anna's government. The French ambassador in St. Petersburg, the marquis de La Chétardie, was deeply involved in planning Elizabeth's coup and bribed numerous officers of the Imperial Guard into supporting the coup.\n\nThe victorious regime first imprisoned the family in the fortress of Dünamünde near Riga and then exiled them to Kholmogory on the Northern Dvina river. Anna eventually died on 18 March 1746 during childbirth. Her son Ivan VI was murdered in Shlisselburg on 16 July 1764, while her husband Anthony Ulrich died in Kholmogory on 19 March 1776. Her remaining four children (Ekaterina, Elizaveta, Peter and Alexei) were released from prison into the custody of their aunt, the Danish queen dowager Juliana Maria of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel, on 30 June 1780 and settled in Jutland, where they lived in comfort under house arrest in Horsens for the rest of their lives under the guardianship of Juliana and at the expense of Catherine the Great. Having lived as prisoners, they were not used to social life, and kept a small \"court\" of some forty to fifty people, all Danish except for the priest.\n\nAnna Leopoldovna had the following children:\n\n\n\n\nAttribution\n\n"}
{"id": "21681120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21681120", "title": "Army-Navy \"E\" Award", "text": "Army-Navy \"E\" Award\n\nThe Army-Navy \"E\" Award was an honor presented to companies during World War II whose production facilities achieved \"Excellence in Production\" (\"E\") of war equipment. The award was also known as the Army-Navy Production Award. The award was created to encourage industrial mobilization and production of war time materials. By war's end, the award had been earned by only 5% of the more than 85,000 companies involved in producing materials for the U.S. military's war effort.\n\nAn earlier award, the Navy \"E\" Award, had been created in 1906 during Theodore Roosevelt's administration. By the end of World War I, the Navy \"E\" Award had been joined by the Army \"A\" Award and the Army-Navy Munitions Board \"Star\".\n\nThese three separate awards continued until seven months after the attack on Pearl Harbor had pulled the United States into World War II. In July 1942, the War Department proclaimed that the new Army-Navy \"E\" Award would merge the Navy \"E\", Army \"A\" and Army-Navy Munitions Board \"Star\" into a single, service-wide award.\n\nAll factories engaged in war production were eligible to receive the award. Government as well as privately owned plants were eligible, as were contractors.\n\nAlthough the award was granted to industry, one academic institution and one individual received it. Iowa State College (now Iowa State University) received the award for its contribution to the production of uranium for the Manhattan Project. Dr. Harley A. Wilhelm received the award for inventing the Ames process for the extraction, purification and mass production of uranium for the Manhattan Project, which occurred at Iowa State College. \n\nSome factors which were considered in selecting recipients were:\n\n\nDistrict procurement officers, chiefs of the supply services, agencies concerned with production and the Commanding Officers for the Matériel Commands would recommend plants, complete with the reasons for such recommendations. An Award Board would review the recommended plants and decide on granting of the awards.\n\nThe award consisted of a pennant for the production plant and emblems for all employees in the plant at the time the award was made. The pennant was a triangular swallowtail with a white border, with a capital E within a yellow wreath of oak and laurel leaves on a vertical divided blue and red background. ARMY is on the red background and NAVY on the blue background. \nPlants that maintained an outstanding record of performance for six months after receiving their original Army-Navy E-Award were granted a star award, with a white star added to their pennant. As with only a small percentage of all war production companies earning an Army-Navy \"E\" Award, only a small number of these earned stars, with a very small number of plants earning six stars by the end of the war. \n\nUsually an Army officer and a Navy officer would be present at a ceremony, where the company would assemble all the employees involved in production. After the award of the pennant to the plant (to be flown), the employees present would receive individual pins.\n\nA total of 4,283 companies received the award in the course of the war. This amounted to about five percent of the companies engaged in war work.\n\nThe Army-Navy \"E\" Award was terminated three months after the end of World War II, on December 5, 1945.\n\n"}
{"id": "6080510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6080510", "title": "Arthur Rupert Dickey", "text": "Arthur Rupert Dickey\n\nArthur Rupert Dickey, (August 18, 1854 – July 3, 1900) was a Canadian politician.\n\nBorn in Amherst, Nova Scotia, the son of Robert Barry Dickey, he was a lawyer before being elected to the House of Commons of Canada in an 1888 by-election in the riding of Cumberland after Charles Tupper was named High Commissioner for Canada in the United Kingdom. A Conservative, he was re-elected in 1891 and 1896. He was Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada, Minister of Militia and Defence, and Secretary of State of Canada.\n\nHe died by drowning at Amherst, Nova Scotia on July 3, 1900.\n"}
{"id": "1483944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1483944", "title": "Battered woman syndrome", "text": "Battered woman syndrome\n\nBattered woman syndrome (BWS) emerged in the 1990s from several murder cases in England in which women had killed violent partners in response to what they claimed was cumulative abuse, rather than in response to a single provocative act. Feminist groups, particularly Southall Black Sisters and Justice for Women, challenged the legal definition of \"provocation\", and in a series of appeals against murder convictions secured the courts' recognition of battered woman syndrome. An early work describing the syndrome is Lenore E. Walker's \"The Battered Woman\" (1979).\n\nUntil the mid-1990s, the legal definition of \"provocation\" in England had relied on Devlin J in \"R v Duffy\" [1949] 1 All ER 932: \"Provocation is some act, or series of acts done (or words spoken) ... which would cause in any reasonable person and actually causes in the accused, a sudden and temporary loss of self-control, rendering the accused so subject to passion as to make him or her for the moment not master of his or her mind.\" Three cases helped to change this: \"R v Ahluwalia\" [1992] 4 AER 889; \"R v Humphreys\" [1995] 4 All ER 1008); and \"R v Thornton (No 2)\" [1996] 2 AER 1023.\n\nThe courts in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the United States have accepted the extensive and growing body of research showing that battered women can use force to defend themselves and sometimes kill their abusers because of the abusive and sometimes life-threatening situation in which they find themselves, acting in the firm belief that there is no other way than to kill for self-preservation. The courts have recognized that this evidence may support a variety of defenses to a charge of murder or to mitigate the sentence if convicted of lesser offenses. Battered woman syndrome is not a legal defense in and of itself, but may legally constitute:\n\n\nHowever, in 1994, as part of the Violence Against Women Act, the United States Congress ordered an investigation into the role of battered woman syndrome expert testimony in the courts to determine its validity and usefulness. In 1997, they published the report of their investigation, titled \"The Validity and Use of Evidence Concerning Battering and Its Effects in Criminal Trials\". \"The federal report ultimately rejected all terminology related to the battered woman syndrome...noting that these terms were 'no longer useful or appropriate (Rothenberg, \"Social Change\", 782). Instead of using the term \"battered woman\", the terminology \"battering and its effects\" became acceptable. The decision to change this terminology was based on a changing body of research indicating there is more than one pattern to battering and a more inclusive definition was necessary to more accurately represent the realities of domestic violence.\n\nIn \"R v Ahluwalia\" (1992) 4 AER 889 a woman (Kiranjit Ahluwalia), created napalm and set fire to the bed of her husband, Deepak, after he had gone to sleep. He suffered severe burns over 40% of his body and died 10 days later in the hospital. He allegedly had attempted to break her ankles and burn her with a hot iron on the night of her attack. Accusing him of domestic violence and marital rape, she claimed provocation. The judge directed the jury to consider whether, if she did lose her self-control, a reasonable person having the characteristics of a well-educated married Asian woman living in England would have lost her self-control given her husband's provocation. On appeal, it was argued that he should have directed the jury to consider a reasonable person suffering from 'battered woman syndrome'. Having considered fresh medical evidence, the Court of Appeal ordered a retrial on the basis that the new evidence showed an arguable case of diminished responsibility in English law.\n\nSimilarly, in \"R v Thornton (No 2)\" (1996) 2 AER 1023 the battered wife adduced fresh evidence that she had a personality disorder and the Court of Appeal ordered a retrial considering that, if the evidence had been available at the original trial, the jury might have reached a different decision. The victim does not have to be in a position to carry out the threats immediately.\n\nIn \"R v Charlton\" (2003) EWCA Crim 415, following threats of sexual and violent abuse against herself and her daughter, the defendant killed her obsessive, jealous, controlling partner while he was restrained by handcuffs, blindfolded and gagged as part of their regular sexual activity. The term of five years' imprisonment was reduced to three and a half years because of the terrifying threats made by a man determined to dominate and control the defendant's life. The threats created a genuine fear for the safety of herself and more significantly, her daughter, and this caused the defendant to lose control and make the ferocious attack.\n\nIn \"HM's AG for Jersey v Holley\" (2005) 3 AER 371, the Privy Council regarded the Court of Appeal precedent in \"Smith\" as wrongly decided, interpreting the Act as setting a purely objective standard. Thus, although the accused's characteristics were to be taken into account when assessing the gravity of the provocation, the standard of self-control to be expected was invariable except for the accused's age and sex. The defendant and the deceased both suffered from chronic alcoholism and had a violent and abusive relationship. The evidence was that the deceased was drunk and taunted him by telling him that she had sex with another man. The defendant then struck the deceased with an axe which was an accident of availability. Psychiatric evidence was that his consumption of alcohol was involuntary and that he suffered from a number of other psychiatric conditions which, independently of the effects of the alcohol, might have caused the loss of self-control and induced him to kill. Lord Nicholls said:\nSince the passage of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009, the defence of provocation—used in a number of the aforementioned cases—has been replaced with 'loss of control'.\n\nThe Law Commission Report on \"Partial Defences to Murder\" (2004) rejects the notion of creating a mitigatory defence to cover the use of excessive force in self-defence but accepts that the \"all or nothing\" effect of self-defence can produce unsatisfactory results in the case of murder.\n\nIn Australia, self-defence might be considered the most appropriate defence to a charge of murder for a woman who kills to protect her life or the lives of her children in a domestic violence context. It is about the rational act of a person who kills in order to save her (or his) own life. But the lack of success in raising self-defence in Australia for battered women has meant that provocation has been the main focus of the courts. In 2005, based on the Victorian Law Reform Commission's \"Defences to Homicide: Final Report\", the Victorian government announced changes to the homicide laws in that jurisdiction, which are intended to address this perceived imbalance. Under the new laws, victims of family violence will be able to put evidence of their abuse before the court as part of their defence, and argue self-defence even in the absence of an immediate threat, and where the response of killing involved greater force than the threatened harm.\n\nIn 1911 in Sault Ste. Marie, Angelina Napolitano, a 28-year-old, pregnant immigrant, killed her abusive husband Pietro with an axe after he tried to force her into prostitution. She confessed and was sentenced to hang after a brief trial, but during the delay before the sentence was carried out (a delay necessary to allow her to give birth to her child), a public campaign for her release began. Napolitano's supporters argued that the judge in the case had been wrong to throw out evidence of her long-standing abuse at Pietro's hands (including an incident five months before when he stabbed her nine times with a pocket knife). The federal cabinet eventually commuted her sentence to life imprisonment. She was the first woman in Canada to use the battered woman defense on a murder charge.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Canada set a precedent for the use of the battered women defence in the 1990 case of \"R. v. Lavallee\".\n\nIn \"R v Fate\" (1998) 16 CRNZ 88 a woman who had come to New Zealand from the small island of Nanumea, which is part of the Tuvalu Islands, received a two-year sentence for manslaughter by provocation. Mrs. Fate spoke no English and was isolated within a small close-knit Wellington community of 12 families, so she felt trapped in the abusive relationship.\n\nSimilarly, \"The Queen v Epifania Suluape\" (2002) NZCA 6, deals with a wife who pleaded provocation after she killed her husband with an axe when he proposed to leave her for another woman. There was some evidence of neglect, humiliation, and abuse but the court concluded that this was exaggerated. On appeal, the court was very conscious of the Samoan culture in New Zealand in restricting the power of the wife to act independently of her husband and reduced her sentence for manslaughter to five years.\n\nA report of the New Zealand Law Commission examines not only violence by men against women, but also violence by women against men and in same-sex relationships.\n\n"}
{"id": "3864828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3864828", "title": "Catholic guilt", "text": "Catholic guilt\n\nCatholic guilt is the reported excess guilt felt by Catholics and lapsed Catholics.\n\n\"Guilt\" is remorse for having committed some offense or wrong, real or imagined. It is related to, although distinguishable from, \"shame\", in that the former involves an awareness of causing injury to another, while the latter arises from the consciousness of something dishonorable, improper, or ridiculous, done by oneself. One might feel guilty for having hurt someone, and also ashamed of oneself for having done so.\n\nPhilip Yancey compares guilt to the sensation of physical pain as an indication that something should not be ignored but attended to. Rabbi David Wolpe says, \"Facing up to the hurt we cause others with cruel speech or callous acts, and to our myriad failures to meet the marks God sets for living a true and good life, \"makes forgiveness meaningful, not merely a catchphrase,\".\n\nThe Penitential Rite at the beginning of the Mass is a liturgical rudiment of this previously sacramental confession. This private confession became the normal way in which this sacrament was and is practiced, with a strict seal of secrecy on the part of the priest. Sometimes the practice of the sacrament emphasized doing acts of penance, sometimes it emphasized making one's sorrow or contrition authentic, sometimes it emphasized confessing all one's serious (mortal) sins, sometimes it emphasized the power of the priest, In Persona Christi, to absolve the penitent of sin, and currently there are forms that include simply one-on-one confession to a priest or communal preparation and then one-on-one confession to a priest.\n\nGuilt is an important factor in perpetuating obsessive–compulsive disorder symptoms. Research is mixed on the possible connection between Catholicism and obsessive-compulsive symptoms. A study of 165 individuals by the University of Parma found that religious individuals scored higher on measures of control of thoughts and overimportance of thoughts, and that these measures were associated with obsessive-compulsive symptoms only in the religious participants. Another study noted a link between intrinsic religiosity and obsessive-compulsive cognitions/behaviors only among Catholic participants. However, a study from Boston University found that no particular religion was more common among OCD patients, and that OCD patients were no more religious than other subjects with anxiety. Religious obsessions were connected to the participants' religiosity, but sexual and aggressive symptoms were not. Greater religious devotion among OCD patients was correlated with increased guilt.\n\nA study in American Behavioral Scientist analyzed interviews with participants from Catholic, Jewish, and Protestant backgrounds. The author reported that most participants \"eagerly described an experience of guilt.\"\n\nUniversity of Ulster students participated in a study that found a slightly higher level of collective guilt among the Catholic students than the Protestant students.\n\nResearchers from the University of California at Berkeley and from the University of Notre Dame examined the concept of Catholic guilt among U.S. teenagers. The authors found no evidence of Catholic guilt in this population, noting that Catholicism both caused and relieved less guilt than other religious traditions. The authors found no evidence that Catholic teenagers experience more guilt than non-Catholic teenagers. The authors did not find that more observant Catholics feel guiltier than less observant Catholics. The study also noted no difference in the effect of guilt-inducing behaviors on Catholic versus non-Catholic participants.\n\nA study from Hofstra University reported no difference in total guilt among religions, although religiosity itself was connected to guilt.\n\nGuilt can be viewed in terms of constructiveness versus destructiveness: \"constructive guilt\" is focused on forgiving one's ethical lapses and changing one's behavior, while \"destructive guilt\" remains mired in self-loathing and does not emphasize learning from one's wrongdoings and moving ahead with life. A study in \"Psychology of Religion\" found that Catholic participants demonstrated a higher level of constructive guilt reactions than other groups.\n\nEvelyn Waugh's \"Brideshead Revisited\" involves guilt in the Catholic religion. Distressed by her romantic relationship with Charles Ryder, Julia Flyte exclaims:\nLiving in sin, with sin, by sin, for sin, every hour, every day, year in, year out. Waking up with sin in the morning, seeing the curtains drawn on sin, bathing it, dressing it, clipping diamonds to it, feeding it, showing it round, giving it a good time, putting it to sleep at night with a tablet of Dial if it's fretful. Always the same, like an idiot child carefully nursed, guarded from the world. 'Poor Julia,' they say, 'she can't go out. She's got to take care of her little sin. A pity it ever lived,' they say, 'but it's so strong. Children like that always are. Julia's so good to her little, mad sin.’\n\nThe \"30 Rock\" episode \"The Fighting Irish\", Catholic guilt is described by Jack Donaghy (Alec Baldwin).\nJack Donaghy: That's not how it works, Tracy. Even though there is the whole confession thing, that's no free pass, because there is a crushing guilt that comes with being a Catholic. Whether things are good or bad or you're simply... eating tacos in the park, there is always the crushing guilt\".\n\nThe term \"Catholic guilt\" is considered a pejorative against Catholics and Catholic ethics in general. Guilt is a by-product of an informed conscience but \"Catholic\" guilt is often confused with scrupulosity. An overly scrupulous conscience is an exaggeration of healthy guilt. Guilt is not considered a positive thing in itself in any Catholic teaching, rather contrition is considered constructive.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1709509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1709509", "title": "Chacoan peccary", "text": "Chacoan peccary\n\nThe Chacoan peccary or tagua (\"Catagonus wagneri\") is the last extant species of the genus Catagonus; it is a peccary found in the Gran Chaco of Paraguay, Bolivia, and Argentina. Approximately 3,000 remain in the world. It is believed to be the closest living relative to the extinct genus \"Platygonus\".\n\nThe Chacoan peccary has the unusual distinction of having been first described in 1930 based on fossils and was originally thought to be an extinct species. In 1971, the animal was discovered to still be alive in the Chaco region, in the Argentine province of Salta. The species was well known to the native people, but it took a while for scientists to acknowledge its existence. It is known locally as the \"tagua\".\n\nThe Chacoan peccary is confined to hot, dry areas. Dominated by low-lying succulents and thorny bushes, the Gran Chaco is about 140,000 km. A few scattered giant trees are found, but the majority of the vegetation is thorny scrub vegetation. The Chacoan peccary has developed adaptations such as well-developed sinuses to combat dry, dusty conditions. Their feet are also small, which allows maneuverability among spiny plants.\n\nThe largest of the three generally accepted species of peccaries, the Chacoan peccary has many pig-like features. It is an ungulate with a well-formed rostrum with a tough leathery snout. The bristle-like hair is generally brown to almost gray. A dark stripe runs across the back, and white fur is on the shoulders. Chacoan peccaries differ from other peccary species by having longer ears, snouts, and tails. It has white hairs around the mouth, unlike other peccaries. \"Catagonus wagneri\" also has a third hind toe, but other peccaries only have two. The hypsodont teeth follow this dental formula: 2/3, 1/1, 3/3, 3/3. The upper canines display the distinguishing trait of peccaries, pointing downwards instead of out and up like other Suiformes. When the Chacoan peccary is nervous or frightened, it flees, and raises the hairs on its back. While escaping, it sprays secretions from its dorsal glands, which may be a signal for other peccaries to keep the group together through the dense bush.\n\nYoung are generally born between September and December, but litters have been found almost year-round. Births have been linked to periods of food abundance and rainfall. The average number of embryos has been recorded as approximately 2.72. Females may leave the herd to give birth and then return afterwards. Newborns are precocial, able to run a few hours after birth. The pelage of the young resembles that of the adults. There is no sexual dimorphism.\n\nChacoan peccaries often travel in herds of up to 20 individuals. They are active during the day, especially in the morning when they are most apt to travel. Herds display a general travel cycle within their home range of 42 days. This allows the individuals to monitor and show ownership over their areas.\n\nThese social mammals communicate by various sounds, ranging from grunts to chatters of the teeth. Though individuals may occasionally exhibit aggressive behavior such as charging and biting, this species is not as aggressive as others.\n\nAs a defensive strategy, members of a herd may line up in a defensive wall; this makes the herds harder targets for hunters. The Chacoan peccary produces a milky, odorous substance used for marking trees, shrubs, and similar. The substance is secreted from glands located on their backs, and is dispersed by rubbing. Frequently bathing in mud or dust, Chacoan peccaries also defecate at particular \"stations\".\nThe arid habitat of the Gran Chaco region provides very tough vegetation for the Chacoan peccary. These peccaries feed on various species of cacti, such as \"Cleistocactus baumannii\" and \"Opuntia discolor\". It uses its tough snout to roll the cacti on the ground, rubbing the spines off. It may pull off the spines with its teeth and spit them out. The kidneys are specialized to break down acids from the cacti. The two-chambered stomachs are also well suited to digest tough foods. Occasionally grazing on bromeliad roots, it also eats acacia pods and fallen cactus flowers. This species of peccary seeks out salt licks formed from ant mounds and construction projects (road building and land clearings). The Chacoan peccary gains essential minerals like calcium, magnesium, and chlorine from the salt licks.\n\nBecause the Chacoan peccary is endemic to a formerly isolated region of South America, it is most vulnerable to human activity. Just as quickly as this species is discovered in an area, it disappears. Herd numbers are decreasing as a result of habitat loss and fragmentation. Their range is being quickly transformed into large Texas-style ranches. Hunting also continues, as well as an unidentified disease that has plagued the herds in recent years. A population has been established in North American and European zoos. Preserves have also been established in Paraguay, but are not highly enforced.\n\n"}
{"id": "48789500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48789500", "title": "Disappearance of Cédrika Provencher", "text": "Disappearance of Cédrika Provencher\n\nCédrika Provencher (born 29 August 1997) was a Canadian girl from Trois-Rivières, Québec, Canada, who disappeared aged 9 on <time>31 July 2007</time>. Her disappearance resulted in one of the biggest police search in Québec's history. She was declared \"missing\" on 31 July 2007 (but some commentators in the media already believed that she was kidnapped), and \"likely abducted\" 72 hours later. Despite the offer of a reward, her whereabouts remained unknown for more than eight years.\n\nOn 12 December 2015, Québec provincial police (SQ) announced that her remains had been found by hunters in a woody area not far from Trois-Rivières. Nobody has yet been charged in relation to this. \n\nIt is believed that Cédrika was asked by a man to help search for a lost dog, and agreed to help. She cycled around the area, knocking on doors and asking residents if they had seen the dog. She was seen emerging from a wooded area with a friend, closely followed by a man. She was then seen on her bike in a local park and on various nearby streets. At 8:30 pm, her bicycle was found leaning against a fire hydrant on the corner of streets Chabanel and Chapais. On 2 August 2007, 72 hours later, municipal officers suggested that she had been abducted, even though it was already known since day one that a man asked her about a dog. The Sûreté du Québec (SQ) therefore took over the investigation from the smaller Trois-Rivières police service, as per law. Neither police forces declared the AMBER Alert. Hundreds of citizens assisted in the search for Cédrika, to no avail. On 13 August, while around 60 investigators are working full-time on the case, a reward of 80,000 is offered in exchange of information. It was raised to 170,000 in 2009.\n\nBetween August 2007 and July 2008, various newspapers published information on various aspects of the search, but no concrete information surfaced to be able to find Cédrika or even to establish whether she was still alive.\n\nOn 11 December 2015, three hunters stumbled upon a set of human remains in the woods in Saint-Maurice, a small town near Trois-Rivières close to Highway 40, about 15 km from the last place Cédrika had been seen. On 12 December, it was confirmed that the remains were Cédrika's although police had no further information at the time and said they would need to carry out further investigations. On 16 December, Radio-Canada revealed that investigators were still looking for a person of interest who had been seen around the area where Cédrika disappeared.\n\nJonathan Bettez has been considered a prime suspect since early on, but has never been indicted due to a complete lack of direct evidence.\n\nThe fact that he was the main suspect was publicly revealed by journalists on 29 August 2016 after he was arrested and charged with six counts of possessing and distributing child pornography. He was however acquitted on 12 October 2018 by judge Lacoursière, before the beginning of hearings, as the proof against him was considered to have been obtained illegitimately. In December 2015, a day or two after the finding of Cédrika's remains, investigators involved in the case decided to look into whether Bettez, the sole suspect, could be a user of such pornography. Without any warrant, they were given by Facebook inc. 12 IP addresses associated with his account within the last year or so. Their request was motivated by a sense of \"urgency\" inherent to the recent finding of the corpse, and worry that evidence could be imminently destroyed (judge Lacoursière found however that there was no urgency and that a proper warrant should have been obtained).\n\nThe querying of an international police database then showed that one of the IP address, which investigators learned was from his place of work (a small company owned by Bettez's father, with more than a dozen of employees using a computer), had been used to view and share illicit content between 2010 and 2011. With this in hands, police officers chose, instead of asking a judge for a specific search warrant, to only request a \"general warrant\" from a justice of the peace, which is easier to obtain and was only intended as an \"overview browsing\" of Bettez's seized goods. The detailed and thus unauthorized inspection of his electronic devices subsequently revealed traces of a number of illegal files that had been deleted.\n\nThe case against him, at least what was revealed in media, is strictly circumstantial and goes as follow. Around the presumed time and place of the kidnapping on 31 July 2007, someone witnessed a \"suspicious\" red sedan car with chromed door handles. Since this car was also recorded by a surveillance camera at a nearby gas station, the police managed to boil it down to the 2004 red Acura TSX model, which is assembled with such handles. The news that the police was looking for a \"red Acura\" quickly spread through media outlets. In the summer of 2007, there were 258 vehicles of this model and color registered in the province. Only six exactly matched the characteristics that were sought and Bettez was the only owner whose alibi could not be corroborated. He met with investigators for the first time on 6 September 2007, and on five more occasions before 24 October. From then, he has been the object of intense police surveillance, including the use of hidden cameras and wiretapping. On 6 September he initially accepted to let his vehicle be searched, but at that time the car was in a repair shop to have bodywork done on its rear. Investigators only gained access to the car in December after obtaining a search warrant, but no meaningful forensic evidence was retrieved. In the meantime, the SQ announced through media in November that it was \"certain\" the infamous \"Acura rouge\" car was involved in the kidnaping.\n\nBettez has always refused to take a polygraph test one way or the other, and according to crime journalist Claude Poirier, he was at some point planning to flee to Switzerland, a country which has no extradition treaty with Canada. According to court documents filed during pre-hearing and obtained by journalists, he was the object in 2009 of a year-long undercover operation similar to the \"Mr. Big technique\", so as to elicit confidences concerning Cédrika — to no avail. Even before 2016 he was already rumored to be involved in the case. In 2011, a journalist from the investigative television program \"J.E.\" tried to interview Bettez, which he declined on camera. At the time, the segment aired on TVA channel but the suspect was kept unnamed and his face blurred.\n\n"}
{"id": "20098798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20098798", "title": "Draconic creature (Dungeons &amp; Dragons)", "text": "Draconic creature (Dungeons &amp; Dragons)\n\nThe \"Dungeons & Dragons\" fantasy role-playing game contains many monsters that are similar or related to dragons but which are not \"true dragons\", which are dragons that grow stronger with age. These can be magical beasts, half-dragons, creatures with more distant dragon ancestry, races descending from actual dragons, or creatures of other types, which resemble dragons. Alternatively, they could have the dragon type or keyword, but not be true dragons, or they could have the \"dragonblood\" subtype in the 3rd edition of \"Dungeons & Dragons\".\n\nAmbush drakes are dragons that are lupine in form rather than feline like true dragons. They are short, squat and compact compared to normal dragons, but still grow to be at least as large as an adult human. They have muscular limbs, and short spines on their necks and ugly heads. Their wings are disproportionate. Ambush drakes have grey bodies and back legs, with dark orangey-red heads, front legs and wings. They are far less intelligent than regular dragons.\n\nIn the Dungeons & Dragons fantasy role-playing game, the dracotaur is a dragon. They are sort of a dragon-centaur, having the upper body of a reptilian humanoid and the lower body of a dragon. They are nomadic hunter-warriors who practice sorcery and occasionally serve true dragons.\n\nDracotaurs are large creatures which have the upper torso of a muscular reptilian humanoid, and the lower, quadrupedal body of a wingless dragon. Their eyes are black, their feet large and clawed, and their sharp teeth glisten.\n\nThe favored class of the dracotaur is the sorcerer. Dracotaur barbarians, fighters, and rangers are also common. Dracotaurs are not overly religious, with clerics of them being rare. If not, however, Dracotaurs worship Tiamat. They speak Draconic.\n\nThe dragonborn are a race of draconic humanoids.\nThe dragonne is a magical beast that looks like a cross between a huge lion and a brass dragon. They make their homes in desert areas and live mostly on goats and other herd animals.\nA dragon turtle's hard shell is mistaken for the reflection of heavenly bodies on the water when it surfaces, and is accented with silver fringes. The shell's actual color is about the same color as the sea around it, and its limbs and neck are a lighter color, highlighted with golden fringes.\nIn the Dungeons & Dragons fantasy role-playing game, elemental drakes are dragons most closely related to wyverns. They hail from the Elemental Planes, and are sometimes used as mounts by jann. Unlike wyverns they are sentient.\n\nHalf-dragons are fictional creatures in the Dungeons & Dragons fantasy roleplaying game.\n\nA dragon's magical nature allows it to breed with virtually any species. This sort of conception usually happens when a dragon has been polymorphed or had its form changed in some way. Metallic half-dragons are usually kind except when abused by the common races in the game which will turn half-dragons away from all others except from its kin; those based on evil chromatic dragons often mirror their progenitor's outlook. Half-dragon's features are reptilian, with scales, horns, elongated faces and exaggerated teeth and claws. All have wings.\n\nWhen engaged in combat half-dragons are formidable creatures and can be nearly invulnerable to weak adventurers. All Half-Dragons have a breath weapon according to their variety. Gold, Red and Brass spew fire. Bronze and Blue breathe lightning. Black, Green and Copper exhale acid and corrosive gas. Silver and White dragons blow extremely frigid air and ice. In addition all half-dragons have a special immunity towards the element of their breath weapon. There are exceptions to this for different dragon types. For example, the Deep Dragon of the Forgotten Realms setting has a Corrosive Acid gas breath weapon, but has a Charm immunity rather than an acid immunity.\n\nThe accessory, Races of the Dragon, has information on playing a half-dragon character, making half-dragons based on other dragon types (such as the dragons of the Oriental Adventures or Forgotten Realms campaign settings or the planar dragons of the \"Draconomicon\"), and creating draconic creatures (which have some amount of dragon blood in their family, but not a dragon parent).\nIn the Dungeons & Dragons fantasy role-playing game, landwyrms are wingless, predatory cousins of dragons. They lack the breath weapons that are a signature of true dragons. They have some basic similarities to wurms, such as different species inhabiting certain environments, and neither having wings. However, landwyrms have legs, unlike wurms.\n\nIn the Dungeons & Dragons fantasy role-playing game, linnorms are ancient, primeval cousins of dragons. Linnorms lack wings and hind legs, making them more serpentine than true dragons. All known linnorms are evil and cruel.\n\nLinnorms are sometimes referred to as \"Norse dragons\".\n\nA pseudodragon is a small dragon-like creature in the \"Dungeons & Dragons\" roleplaying game. Pseudodragons are not true dragons and are stereotypically wizard's familiars.\n\nSpawn of Tiamat are the progeny of Dragons, though not themselves of the Dragon type. They are the main object in a theme recently applied to such settings as Eberron and the Forgotten Realms, in that Tiamat, the evil patron goddess of evil dragons, is waging war against Bahamut, and the mortal races. In order for her legions to be more effective, she has tweaked with the eggs of her Dragon minions to produce all manner of bizarre draconic creatures suited to special roles in the war, such as assassination, bodyguarding, elite shock trooping, and aerial/aquatic support.\n\nSpawn of Tiamat are created by all manner of experiments and rituals and such upon the eggs, come in all shapes and sizes and forms, are of varying intelligence levels, perform all manner of roles, and are basically the most varied members of dragonkind. All however, are descended from true dragons serving Tiamat, and are fiercely loyal to both her and their parents. Spawn of Tiamat are named according to the color they and their parent are of, followed by the word spawn, and then the type of spawn they are. The creatures are the key elements in the Monster Manual IV, and the recent War of the Dragon Queen D&D miniatures pack. Below is a list of the known types of spawn of Tiamat, and a brief description of each:\n\nThese are created in large hordes to act like draconic ogres, minotaurs, orcs, goblins, lizardfolk and such. They gather in groups at camps on the fringes of civilization, and occasionally raid against a town or village. They look like wingless, orc-sized, humanoid black dragons with minotaur-like horns. They are often depicted with large swords or axes.\n\nThese resemble spider-like black dragons. They have two sets of horns, razor-sharp teeth, 6 eyes, 8 legs, bloated abdomens, no wings, and two tails which can weave silk.\n\nThese perform, as their name suggests, the role of ambushing people. They lurk beneath the sand of their desert homes, or on top of a rock, and then leap forward like a pouncing lion and kill victims with their horn, claws, and lightning attacks. They resemble medium, wingless blue Dragons with leonine bodies. They have huge front legs for attacking, and long, muscular back legs for leaping.\n\nThese resemble marmot-like, wingless Blue dragons with enormous front legs, paws and claws. As their name implies, their role is digging and tunneling.\n\nThese are designed for slaying Tiamat's most powerful foes and adversaries. They are created from the placing of her blessing upon one of her most trusted blue Dragon lieutenants. They resemble giant, wingless, humanoid blue Dragons who always carry a huge blade and an arm-length shield made from a Dragon's skull. They are very intelligent, extremely strong, and fanatically loyal behemoths. They are probably the most famous of the Spawn of Tiamat.\n\nThese resemble wingless blue dragon-like rhinoceri. From their stubby front horn, they can cast lightning so powerful it can, as the creature's name suggests, create storms.\n\nThese resemble fiendish, sugarglider-like green dragons. They have web-like wings between their limbs, and they specialize in leaping from trees, gliding, and ambushing victims from above.\n\nThese resemble lanky, crested, humanoid green Dragons with wings growing from their arms and fingers the way those of a bat do. They live in swampy forests.\n\nThese specialize in assassination, sabotage, spying and the like. They resemble tiny, very silent and stealthy, wingless, humanoid green dragons. They are often depicted with twin blades, and black leather armor.\n\nThese are the spellcasters of the spawn of Tiamat. They are extremely skilled at casting magic and spells, particularly ones associated with fire. They resemble humanoid, wingless red Dragons with crested, spiked heads and tails. They are depicted with spiked body armor, and a bronze, mace-like wand.\n\nThese resemble large, chubby, round, short-tailed wingless red dragons with bloated stomachs. They dwell in the lairs of true red dragons, and bask on the banks of pools of molten lava the way seals do on beaches. They attack, as their name suggests, by inhaling heat from the air, and then belching it out in enormous blasts of flame.\n\nThese resemble fiendish, lanky, jointed, wingless, alien-like white Dragons. As their name suggests, they specialize in fighting with two weapons, usually a pair of spiked, serrated whips.\n\nThese specialize in overwhelming opponents. They resemble small, wingless, monkey-like white dragons who carry twin weapons and breath shards of ice. They always travel in huge groups, which attack in unison.\n\nThese resemble bluish-white dracotaurs with claws like skis and sail-like wings attached to their arms. As their name suggests, they specialize in traveling on ice, using their claws as skates and their wings for direction. \n\n"}
{"id": "52297539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52297539", "title": "E. M. Roach", "text": "E. M. Roach\n\nEric Merton Roach (3 November 1915 – 18 April 1974) was a Tobagonian poet and playwright. He published some early writing under the pseudonym Merton Maloney.\n\nRoach grew up in Mount Pleasant, Tobago:\nIn 1960s, Roach began to gain an international reputation. However, he became overwhelmed and depressed, and committed suicide in 1974, drinking insecticide before swimming in the ocean.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2429300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2429300", "title": "EFQM", "text": "EFQM\n\nEFQM (the European Foundation for Quality Management) is a not-for-profit membership foundation in Brussels, established in 1989 to increase the competitiveness of the European economy. The initial impetus for forming EFQM was a response to the work of W. Edwards Deming and the development of the concepts of Total Quality Management.\n\nThe intention to found EFQM was signed in October 1988 by 14 European business leaders. The 14 CEOs were:\nThe foundation was formed in 1989, with 67 members. The first version of the EFQM Excellence Model was created by a group of experts from various sectors and academic institutions and launched in 1992. It acted as the framework for assessing applications for the European Quality Award, the transnational quality awards of Europe.\n\nEFQM provides networking, education, and awards, using a framework called the EFQM Excellence Model.\n\n"}
{"id": "33956325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33956325", "title": "Fetal head", "text": "Fetal head\n\nThe fetal head, from an obstetrical viewpoint, and in particular its size, is important because an essential feature of labor is the adaptation between the fetal head and the maternal bony pelvis. Only a comparatively small part of the head at term is represented by the face. The rest of the head is composed of the firm skull, which is made up of two frontal, two parietal, and two temporal bones, along with the upper portion of the occipital bone and the wings of the sphenoid. \n\nThese bones are separated by membranous spaces, or sutures. The most important sutures are the frontal, between the two frontal bones; the sagittal, between the two parietal bones; the two coronal, between the frontal and parietal bones; and the two lambdoid, between the posterior margins of the parietal bones and upper margin of the occipital bone. Where several sutures meet, an irregular space forms, which is enclosed by a membrane and designated as a fontanel. The greater, or anterior fontanel, is a lozenge-shaped space that is situated at the junction of the sagittal and the coronal sutures. The lesser, or posterior fontanel, is represented by a small triangular area at the intersection of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures. The localization of these fontanels gives important information concerning the presentation and position of the fetus. The temporal, or casserian fontanels, have no diagnostic \n\nIt is customary to measure certain critical diameters and circumferences of the newborn head. The diameters most frequently used, and the average lengths thereof, are:\n\nThe greatest circumference of the head, which corresponds to the plane of the occipitofrontal diameter, averages 34.5 cm, a size too large to fit through the pelvis without flexion. The smallest circumference, corresponding to the plane of the suboccipitobregmatic diameter, is 32 cm. The bones of the cranium are normally connected only by a thin layer of fibrous\ntissue that allows considerable shifting or sliding of each bone to accommodate the size and shape of the maternal pelvis. This intrapartum process is termed molding. The head position and degree of skull ossification result in a spectrum of cranial plasticity from minimal to great and, in some Cases, undoubtedly contribute to fetopelvic disproportion, a leading indication for cesarean delivery.\n"}
{"id": "4541200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4541200", "title": "Garth Ranzz", "text": "Garth Ranzz\n\nGarth Ranzz, also known as Live Wire and Lightning Lad is a fictional comic book superhero appearing in books published by DC Comics, usually those featuring the Legion of Superheroes, a 30th and 31st century group of which he is a founding member. He has the superhuman ability to generate electricity, usually in the form of lightning bolts.\n\nCreated by writer Otto Binder and artist Al Plastino, he first appeared in \"Adventure Comics\" #247 (April 1958) under his original codename Lightning Boy.\n\nLightning Lad is a founding member of the Legion of Super-Heroes along with Saturn Girl and Cosmic Boy. Born on the planet Winath, he is the twin brother of fellow Legionnaire Ayla Ranzz (Lightning Lass), the younger brother of the supervillain Mekt Ranzz (Lightning Lord), and the father of two sets of twins; Sons Garridan (Validus) and Graym Ranzz and daughters Dacey and Dorrit Ranzz.\n\nEarly in the Legion's history, he sacrificed himself battling Zaryan the Conqueror, but was later resurrected by the sacrifice of Proty, Chameleon Boy's shapeshifting pet. However, a later retcon revealed that Proty's mind had actually taken over Lightning Lad's form. This retcon has since been eliminated from Legion canon.\n\nAn incident against a monster dubbed the \"Super Moby Dick of space\" resulted in the loss of Lightning Lad's right arm, which was replaced with a bionic appendage. He eventually had his arm regrown, but in the interim a criminal scientist used the situation to hypnotize Lightning Lad into acting as the super criminal Starfinger who used the bionic arm as a weapon. After the Great Darkness Saga, his son was abducted by Darkseid and he was subsequently transformed into the monster Validus.\n\nDuring the \"Five Year Gap\" following the Magic Wars, Earth fell under the covert control of the Dominators, and withdrew from the United Planets. A few years later, the members of the Dominators' highly classified \"Batch SW6\" escaped captivity. Originally, Batch SW6 appeared to be a group of teenage Legionnaire clones, created from samples apparently taken just prior to Ferro Lad's death at the hands of the Sun-Eater. Later, they were revealed to be time-paradox duplicates, every bit as legitimate as their older counterparts. After Earth was destroyed in a disaster reminiscent of the destruction of Krypton over a millennium earlier, a few dozen surviving cities and their inhabitants reconstituted their world as New Earth. The SW6 Legionnaires remained, and their version of Lightning Lad assumed the code name Live Wire. Unlike the adult Garth, he did not possess Proty's mind or personality. Thus, the teenage Live Wire was far more reckless and rebellious than any previous depiction of Garth.\n\nIn the aftermath of \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" Superman's origin was revamped and Superboy was erased from Superman's past. Unfortunately, the Legion's history greatly revolved around Superboy, and that version of the character was retconned into being part of a \"pocket universe\", a solution which caused several continuity errors. After the \"Zero Hour\" miniseries, Legion history was completely rebooted. Garth's new history started when the twins went with Mekt on a trip in their parents' new space cruiser and became stranded on the barren planet Korbal after the cruiser's power cells drained. Ayla suggested that they use the \"Lightning Beasts\" (the only living things on the planet) in an attempt to recharge their cruiser. The only result of this, however, was that all three were found in comas the following day as a result of massive electrocution.\n\nMonths later, Garth and Ayla awoke simultaneously to find that Mekt had awoken around a week earlier, displayed electrical powers like the Beasts, threatened the staff, and vanished. After hearing this, they kept the fact that they had developed similar powers from their parents before Garth, thinking that the lightning had corrupted Mekt somehow and would soon corrupt them and refusing to believe that Mekt had developed into a sociopath just because he had been a \"solo\" on a world of twins, ran away from home to find Mekt (telling his parents he was going to visit his Aunt Ryth), despite Ayla's attempts to dissuade him.\n\nHearing that Mekt might be on Earth, he got on a shuttle bound for Earth via Titan, and met Rokk Krinn there. The two hit it off immediately, but although he developed a crush on her at first sight, Imra Ardeen gave him a frosty reception. Nonetheless, when she shouted that four \"maintenance men\" were actually assassins after R.J. Brande, the three worked together to stop them. This gave Brande an idea. Shortly after, a bar-room brawl caused Garth to be arrested, but just as his cellmates were about to beat him up, Triad-Orange came and posted his bail - Brande wanted a word. There, he found the other two Luornus had fetched Imra and Rokk. Brande, a follower of the 21st Century \"Heroic Age\", proceeded to talk the three of them into founding \"a Legion of Heroes. Super-Heroes,\" with Garth taking the codename Live Wire.\n\nDespite early tension between him and Saturn Girl, Garth's initial period with the Legion passed with little trouble, until his sister showed up. At this point, they were only permitted to have one Legionnaire per world and Garth, classed as a runaway, was not who Winath wanted to represent them. Ayla, codenamed Spark, was apologetic, but neither of them had much choice in the matter and after he nearly leveled Legion Plaza in his fight with Ultra Boy (after UB had threatened Ayla), he quit rather than embarrass Rokk or Imra any more by letting them plead to let him stay.\n\nAfter this, he joined Leland McCauley's Workforce to try to get the money to follow Mekt again, but only stayed with them a short time before McCauley's complete lack of morals became too much and he quit. Shortly afterward, he went to ask Brande if he could borrow a ship to find his brother. Since several stargates (the standard means of traveling faster than light, which Brande manufactured) had recently been destroyed and Brande didn't want to take any chances, he turned him down, but told him to go and visit Saturn Girl, who was in the hospital, having been mentally regressed to childhood by the strain from shutting down the Composite Man's mind. Upon seeing her have a toddler-style temper tantrum, though, he could not bring himself to go in.\n\nShortly after, several Daxamites attacked Earth, and when Garth visited Legion HQ to see if he could help, he was given a flight ring by Rokk and ordered to go and see Imra (who he'd seen pleading for Garth earlier). When she saw him, she threw her arms around him, and, by telling her that the Legion needed her - and that HE needed her - he talked her back to sanity.\n\nAt the end, the three founders stood on Legion HQ as Saturn Girl called the Daxamites there, just in time for Element Lad and Brainiac 5 to send them to a planet where they would be powerless, ending the threat.\n\nIn the aftermath, however, he was once more forced off the team—and stung by Ayla's charge that he talked a good game on finding Mekt, but never actually did anything about it—- he went on his travels again to try once more to find his wayward brother. After spending 27060 credits in his search, he found himself on the planet Bisbe, having been robbed of his last 512 credits. When trying to get his money back, he was arrested for murder under Mekt's name. Rather than protesting that he wasn't Mekt, he stayed silent, and just as the truth was discovered, Mekt broke through the wall and killed the police officer who was trying to dissuade Garth from taking Mekt's fall. When Garth saw just how insane Mekt had become, he tried to blast him, but was knocked out by his brother. Meanwhile, Ayla was told of Garth's arrest and the cop's electrocution, and she rushed straight to Bisbe.\n\nGarth awoke just as they were entering Korbal's orbit, where Mekt started killing more beasts to increase his own power, so he would be the only one with lightning powers, a plan that did not involve Garth or Ayla. As Garth realized this, several Science Police cruisers flew overhead announcing that \"he\" was under arrest for the murder of a policeman. Mekt immediately began to down the cruisers, while Garth pleaded with Mekt to stop. Finally, when Ayla showed up, a ranting Mekt attacked her. Garth was finally forced to face the truth about Mekt, but Mekt, now more powerful than both of the twins together, retaliated by vaporizing Garth's right arm. Ayla grabbed Mekt's laser pistol and shot him in the leg, delaying him while she saw that Garth's wound had cauterized itself. Finally, as Mekt prepared to finish them off, Garth prompted Ayla to hold his remaining hand and let their powers run together freely. The resulting blast was enough to not only knock Mekt off his feet, but completely discharge him (not to mention turn his hair white). Mekt was finally arrested by the S.P., and (after a short stay in hospital) Garth was cleared of all charges.\n\nWhile he was recovering from the ordeal, and getting used to his artificial arm, he was contacted by Cosmic Boy, who knew that President Chu was up to something, but he didn't know what and thus had to play along with her wishes (which included keeping Live Wire off the team). Rokk thus had Live Wire put together a secret \"Rescue Squad.\" After recruiting Ultra Boy, Element Lad, Andromeda, Valor and XS, they saved the Legion from the Fatal Five. Both teams then divided into three, and all the heroes combined to have Chu impeached and arrested, and to prevent her (with the Fatal Five's help) from reviving the Braal-Titan War. R.J. Brande was then reluctantly drafted as the new U.P. president, and his first act was to abolish the U.P.-installed membership restrictions on the team, allowing Garth to rejoin.\n\nGarth was killed during the \"Legion Lost\" storyline, sacrificing himself in battle with the Progenitor (actually an insane Element Lad). A few crystals were left from the destruction of the Progenitor, which Kid Quantum took with her upon the Lost Legion's return to the \"first\" galaxy; she left the crystals on Shanghalla (the heroes' graveyard). It turned out Garth's essence survived in the crystals and Jan's body regrew but with Garth's mind. He was apparently able to use both the Element Lad and Lightning Lad powers in the new crystalline body. His relationship with other Legionnaires, including Saturn Girl, was strained due to his outward resemblance to the Progenitor.\n\nIn the \"Final Crisis: Legion of 3 Worlds\" miniseries, the post-Zero Hour Legion is brought to the pre-crisis Legion's timeline, to help battle Superboy Prime and the Legion of Super-Villains. During this time, the pre-crisis Brainiac 5 uses a specially charged lightning rod to increase the transmutation ability of Element Lad's body, allowing Garth to mutate the body itself into a match for his own.\n\nIn the 2005 Waid/Kitson revamp, Garth Ranzz (again as Lightning Lad) remains a charter member of the galactic youth movement the Legion has become. (It is revealed that he coined the first Legion motto—\"Eat it, Grandpa!\") He and Saturn Girl share an intimate connection, and Garth notes that one has to be \"way honest\" to date a telepath. He is protective of his twin, Light Lass, and bears a slight grudge against Brin Londo for his treatment of Ayla. One of the Legion's fiercest fighters, he almost single-handedly routed the terrorist group Terra Firma in their first skirmish with the Legion. Made acting leader in the wake of the Lemnos crisis, it was Lightning Lad who signed the accord which officially named the Legion as an arm of the United Planets and saved hundreds of Legionnaires from being brutally deported by the Science Police. He is the Legion member who has logged the least time on Earth, tending to prefer exploring space, as if searching for something, revealed to be his older brother, Mekt, who ultimately came to Earth, himself, leading his own super team known as \"The Wanderers.\" This fact, and his almost total dedication to the Legion's cause puts a serious strain on his relationship with Saturn Girl, eventually putting her in Ultra Boy's arms.\n\nThe events of the 2005–2006 \"Infinite Crisis\" storyline restored a close analogue of the Pre-\"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" Legion to continuity, as seen in \"The Lightning Saga\" story arc in \"Justice League of America\" and \"Justice Society of America\", and in the \"Superman and the Legion of Super-Heroes\" story arc in \"Action Comics\". Lightning Lad is included in their number, and is still married to Saturn Girl.\n\nGarth later escorts Superman back to the present, where the two take to the time to reminisce on certain teenage misadventures in the Fortress of Solitude. The two are then joined by Batman, who reveals that the bodies of Karate Kid and Una were found in Gotham City. Garth and Batman react very hostile towards one another, given Batman's distrust of time travelers. Garth leaves back to the 31st Century with Karate Kid and Una's bodies, but not before giving Superman a new flight ring and giving Batman a veiled warning about upcoming struggles.\n\nIn the 2009 revival of \"Adventure Comics\" Garth is sent by an imprisoned Mekt to uncover the truth about whether Mekt was in fact a single birth, or whether his suspicions are correct that he does have a twin and that his parents have covered this up. It remains to be seen whether he is telling the truth, is lying, or has deluded himself into believing this. If it is true, this revelation would be a significant alteration to the characters' backstory.\n\nLightning Lad has the ability to generate electricity within his own body without harming himself. This electricity he is able to discharge in the form of potent \"lightning bolts\" (in some undisclosed way his power prevents these bolts from taking the path of least resistance to Earth, such that he is able to target objects with great accuracy). He can also create flashing lettering which can be seen from great distances. He has occasionally displayed a limited control of weather. In more recent versions of the character, Garth is also able to direct his electric powers internally so as to move at superhuman speed, with his top speed being approximately one-third the speed of light. Lightning Lad is immune to the harmful effects of electric currents, not only those currents which he himself generates.\n\nAs a member of the Legion of Super-Heroes he is provided a Legion Flight Ring. It allows him to fly and protects him from the vacuum of space and other dangerous environments.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2755974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2755974", "title": "Graeme Johnstone", "text": "Graeme Johnstone\n\nGraeme Johnstone was the state coroner of Victoria, Australia from 1994-2007. He retired on 29 November 2007, and was replaced by Judge Jennifer Coate. He is noted for often personally visiting the scenes of deaths that fall within his jurisdiction. \n\nGraeme Douglas Johnstone (17 May 1945 - 16 November 2012) was educated at Geelong College and Monash University, where he obtained a Bachelor of Laws and a Bachelor of Jurisprudence.\n\nHe has held inquests into many famous deaths. In 2005, he conducted a coronial inquest into the death of Prime Minister Harold Holt and found that he had accidentally drowned in the ocean near Portsea. This disappointed advocates of conspiracy theories, such as the hypothesis that he was kidnapped by a Russian submarine . He has also held a long-running series of inquests into the death of Jaidyn Leskie.\n\nUpon his retirement, Victorian Attorney-General Rob Hulls praised Johnstone for his outstanding commitment to investigating deaths in custody. Johnstone will be coming out of retirement in February 2008 for the conclusion of the inquest into the disappearance and death of Louise and Charmian Faulkner who went missing in 1980.\n\n"}
{"id": "11041275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11041275", "title": "Gregorios Abdal Jaleel", "text": "Gregorios Abdal Jaleel\n\nMar Gregorios Abdal Jaleel Bawa (died 27 April 1681) was a Syriac Orthodox bishop of Jerusalem from 1664 until his death in 1681. He is chiefly remembered for his 1665 mission to India, in which he re established ties between the Malankara Church and the Syriac Orthodox church. He is venerated as a saint by his church.\n\nAbdal Jaleel was born in Mosul, Iraq. In 1654 he was ordained metropolitan bishop for the Ameed (Diyarbaker) diocese in Turkey by the Patriarch Mar Ignatius She'mun. In 1664, he was elevated as the Metropolitan of Jerusalem with the title Mor Gregorios. He traveled to India in 1665 to the ordination of Mar Thoma I, archdeacon of the Syriac Christian community. He was the deligate of Maphriyana/catholicate of Syriac orthodox church to Kerala syrian Christians.\nHe died in India in 1681, and his remains are interred in the St. Thomas Church at North Paravur. On April 4, 2000, Patriarch Ignatius Zakka I declared Mar Gregorios Abdal Jaleel a saint.\n\nThomas Christians are popularly and traditionally called as \"Syriac Christians\", a term associated with their use of liturgical rites of Syriac Christianity. The name \"Syriac\" came to refer to those Christians that were using various Syriac Rites at the very beginning of Christianity. The \"Syrian Christian\" label was also attached to the Churches in Syria, which was submitted to the ecclesiastical authority of the Church of Antioch in the ancient capital of Roman Syria. It was referred to as the \"Syrian Church\" in the epistle of St. Ignatius (the third Patriarch of Antioch), to the Romans in AD 107.\n\nThe Saint Thomas Christians were in communion with the Church of the East until their encounter with the Portuguese in 1599. There after the Christians of St Thomas had been influenced by many belief streams at different points of time. These influences have later resulted in serious rifts and in the breaking down of the monolithic apostolic church to different fragments under different faith stream. They were organised as a Church in the 8th century, served by foreign bishops and with a hereditary local chief called Arkadiyokon or Archdeacon. In the 16th century the overtures of the Portuguese \"padroado\" to bring the Saint Thomas Christians into the Catholic Church led to the first of several rifts in the community and the establishment of Roman Catholic and Malankara Church factions.Since that time further splits have occurred, and the Saint Thomas Christians are now divided into several Eastern Catholic, Oriental Orthodox, and independent bodies, each with their own liturgies and traditions.\n\nAfter the Coonen Cross Oath incident, Archdeacon Thomas was ordained as bishop by the laying on of hands by twelve priests. This was considered necessary in view of the extraordinary circumstances. Appeals were sent to various Eastern Christian centers and Mor Gregorios Abdul Jaleel Bawa of Jerusalem was the first to respond.\n\nMor Gregorios reached Ponnani, then an important port on the south Western coast of India, in 1665. The 'Travancore State Manual' Vol II Page 187, records the arrival of Mor Gregorios as follows - \"Two years afterwards, in 1665, the position of the Archdeacon Thomas altered by the arrival on this coast of a Bishop named Gregory, Patriarch of Jerusalem sent by the Jacobite Patriarch of Antioch Ignatius XXIII the quarter whence had come Ahathalla, thirteen years previously\".\n\nKnowing the prevailing political climate, he traveled further south by land in disguise until he came across some Syriac Rite Christians from the North Paravur church. He revealed his identity showing them the 'Sthathikon' from the Patriarch of Antioch. They led him to their church and sent word to others. The Archdeacon and many people rushed to the place to welcome the Bawa. Soon after, Mor Gregorios canonically ordained the Archdeacon as Metropolitan Mar Thoma I. Together, they traveled to various churches affirming the Orthodox faith and traditions. In 1670 March Gregorios and Mar Thoma I together ordained Mar Thoma II as the second Malankara Metropolitan.\n\nAn important encyclical by Mor Gregorios dated 5th Kumbam 1668 gives us a record of the Malankara Church during the period. Referring to the Synod of Diamper, it says \"Most of the early records on the faith and history of the Malankara Church prior to the arrival of Portuguese were destroyed in the aftermaths of the Synod of Diamper. They did this in order to establish a new chapter in Malankara. The ultimate aim of the Synod was to transform the Syriac Rite Christians into the Roman Catholic fold by use of force and in this process, they managed to destroy all the earlier records. The support of Portuguese military and the local Kings made their task much easier.\"\n\nGregorios died on 27 April 1681 (M.E. 857 Medom 14th, Friday). It is said that he knew beforehand the exact hour of his demise. In accordance with his instructions, he was dressed in the pontifical habits with cross and staff in hand and taken to the church seated in a chair. A large number of people gathered at the church and, as he died, it was reported that the people witnessed a bright glow inside and outside the church and several other miraculous signs. His mortal remains were interred in the 'Hykala' of the St. Thomas Church at North Paravur which has since become a pilgrimage centre.\n\nOn April 4, 2000, Patriarch Ignatius Zakka I of the Syriac Orthodox Church declared Gregorios Abdal Jaleel a saint. On 7 February 2006, the Patriarch issued a decree authorizing the recital of the name of Mor Gregorios Abdel`Jaleel in the Fifth 'TUBDEN' (diptych).\n\nThe relics of Mor Gregorios is preserved at St. Thomas Church, North Paravur which include his vestments, a golden cross, a golden chalice, paten set and an \"arulikka\" worn by Mor Gregorios. The holy 'Arulikka' has 12 partitions of which 11 contain the relics of saints and the twelfth partition in the middle contains a piece of the cross on which Christ was crucified. The Chalice and Platen are still used in the Holy Qurbana celebrated on the feast of Mor Gregorios. The relics are ceremoniously taken out and exhibited for public veneration on the feast day.\n\nThe Perunal (Malayalam) or Dhukrono (Syriac) of Mor Gregorios Bava is celebrated for 4 days starting from 24 April every year and culminating on the 27th. During these days, the North Paravur is declared as a festival area by the Kerala government considering the large flow of pilgrims. Thousands of pilgrims from different parts of Kerala, mostly from the northern part of Malankara, travel by foot covering many miles to reach the tomb every year.\n\nThe Feast of Mor Gregorios Abdal Jaleel is also celebrated at Elanjikal Palli in Niranam on 28 April.\n\n"}
{"id": "1559254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1559254", "title": "Halle Tanner Dillon Johnson", "text": "Halle Tanner Dillon Johnson\n\nHalle Tanner Dillon Johnson (1864 – 26 April 1901) was an American physician who in 1891 became the first female African-American doctor in Alabama.\n\nJohnson was born Halle Tanner in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the oldest daughter of nine children to Benjamin Tucker and Sarah Elizabeth Tanner. Johnson was well educated and as a young girl became familiar with the work of prominent African-American intellectuals. She worked with her father on \"The Christian Recorder\", a publication of the African Methodist Episcopal Church, where he ministered.\n\nIn 1886, Johnson married Charles Dillon and the couple had a child before her husband's sudden death. A widow at 24, Johnson returned to live with her family and decided to enter medical school. After three years of study at the Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania, she earned her M.D. in 1891, graduating with honors.\n\nAround the time of her graduation, African-American educator Booker T. Washington, founder of the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama, had written to the Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania to request a nomination for a teaching position he had been struggling to fill for four years. He hoped to find an African-American physician to serve the school and its surrounding community. Johnson accepted Washington's offer of US$600 a month, including lodging and meals, and arrived to begin her service in August 1891.\n\nBefore beginning her new job, however, young Dr. Dillon had to face a significant obstacle: passing the Alabama State Medical Examination. The very fact that she was sitting for the examination caused a public stir in Montgomery, Alabama. She spent ten days taking the exam, addressing a different area of medicine each day. Her examiners included the directors and leading figures of most of the state's major medical institutions. Dillon impressed them with her responses and she passed the test.\n\nDr. Dillon was the first woman to practice medicine in the state of Alabama.\n\nDuring her brief tenure at Tuskegee, she was responsible for the health care of the school's 450 students and 30 faculty and staff. She also established a training school for nurses and founded the Lafayette Dispensary to serve the health care needs of local residents, often mixing medicines herself for their use. She also taught two classes each day.\n\nJohnson's tenure at Tuskegee ended in 1894 when she married the Reverend John Quincy Johnson, an African Methodist Episcopal minister and math instructor at Tuskegee. The couple moved first to Columbia, South Carolina, where Reverend Johnson became president of Allen University, a private school for black students. They later moved from Hartford, Connecticut to Atlanta, Georgia, and then to Princeton, New Jersey, as Reverend Johnson pursued undergraduate and graduate degrees in theology. Finally, in 1900, the couple settled in Nashville, Tennessee with their three children and Reverend Johnson became the pastor of Saint Paul A.M.E. Church. Halle Johnson died in Nashville from complications during childbirth.\n"}
{"id": "40377862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40377862", "title": "Hanns Bolz", "text": "Hanns Bolz\n\nHanns Bolz (22 January 1885, Aachen - 4 July 1918, Munich) was a German painter, illustrator and sculptor. He worked in the Expressionist and Cubo-Futurist styles.\n\nAfter studying in Aachen and Cologne, he attended the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf from 1905 to 1908. He then spent three years in Paris, where he rented a studio in Montmartre that had previously been occupied by Pablo Picasso. He became an habitué of Le Dôme Café, where he became acquainted with Hans Purrmann, Rudolf Levy and, most importantly, Alfred Flechtheim, who would serve as his agent for the rest of his brief career.\n\nFrom 1911 to 1912, he lived in Munich, working as an illustrator for the magazine \"Komet\". While there, he met Franz Marc and became associated with the painters of the Der Blaue Reiter. Apparently restless there, he returned to Paris and rented another studio; this time in Montparnasse. He also travelled extensively, visiting Madrid, London, Venice and Oslo.\n\nIn 1914, he was drafted for military service and sent to the front. While there, he was involved in a poison gas attack that left him nearly blind and he was mustered out of service in 1917. From that time on, he concentrated on sculpting, as the tactile element compensated for his lost vision to some extent. \n\nAt this time, he was living with Otto Freundlich, at his studio in Cologne. Later, he returned to Munich, but became ill and had to be admitted to a hospital where he died of complications from his war injuries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13948963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13948963", "title": "Harry Chatton", "text": "Harry Chatton\n\nJames Harold \"Harry\" Chatton (born 23 April 1899 in Enniskillen, County Fermanagh, Ireland), commonly referred to as Harry Chatton, was an Irish footballer who played for several clubs in the Scottish League, the American Soccer League and the League of Ireland. Chatton was a dual internationalist and played for both Ireland teams – the IFA XI and the FAI XI. His date and place of death are unknown.\n\nAfter playing with Dumbarton and Partick Thistle in the Scottish League, Chatton joined Indiana Flooring of the American Soccer League in 1926. At the end of the 1926–27 season, he and team mate Alec Donald broke their contracts with Flooring and returned to Scotland to sign with Hearts. The ASL, through the United States Football Association, immediately contested Chatton's contract with Hearts resulting in FIFA voiding the contract. As a result Chatton returned to Flooring, now known as the New York Nationals. Chatton subsequently helped the Nationals win the 1928 National Challenge Cup, beating Chicago's Bricklayers and Masons F.C. 4–1 on aggregate in the final.\nIn 1929, the Nationals also won the Lewis Cup, the ASL league cup, defeating the New Bedford Whalers over three games. That January, Hearts again attempted to induce Chatton to move to Scotland, but he declined and played one more season in the ASL. On 25 May 1930 at the Polo Grounds, Chatton played for the Nationals in a friendly against Rangers, the reigning Scottish champions. Nationals lost this game 5–4. Among Chatton's team mates at the Nationals were Jimmy Douglas, Jimmy Gallagher, Bart McGhee and Robert Millar. The former three all played for the United States at the 1930 World Cup while Millar was the team coach. After four years in the ASL, Chatton returned to Ireland and joined Shelbourne, helping them win the League of Ireland title in 1931. He then had two further seasons with Dumbarton before joining Cork F.C., who he helped win the FAI Cup in 1934.\n\nDuring the years Chatton played international football, there were, in effect, two Ireland teams, chosen by two rival associations. Both associations, the Northern Ireland – based IFA and the Irish Free State – based FAI claimed jurisdiction over the whole of Ireland and selected players from the whole island. As a result several notable Irish players from this era, including Chatton, played for both teams.\n\nBetween 1924 and 1925, while playing for Partick Thistle, Chatton played 3 times for the IFA XI. He made his international debut on 22 October 1924 against England in 3–1 defeat at Goodison Park. He won his second cap for the IFA, against Scotland in 3–0 defeat on 28 February 1925 at Windsor Park. He made his final appearance for the IFA XI in a 0–0 draw with England on 24 October 1925, again at Windsor Park. His team mates while playing for the IFA XI included, among others, Tom Farquharson, Mick O'Brien, Bill Lacey, Elisha Scott and Billy Gillespie.\n\nBetween 1931 and 1934 Chatton also played 3 times for the FAI XI. He won each of his three FAI caps while playing for three different clubs – Shelbourne,\n\nDumbarton and Cork F.C.. Chatton made his debut for the FAI XI against Spain on 26 April 1931. He helped a team that also included Tom Farquharson, Peter Kavanagh and Paddy Moore, gain a respectable 1–1 draw at the Montjuic Stadium in Barcelona. On 13 December 1931 at Dalymount Park he then captained the FAI XI in the return game against Spain; this time, however, his team lost 5–0. He made his third and final appearance for the FAI XI against the Netherlands on 8 April 1934 in a World Cup qualifier which ended in a 5–2 defeat.\n\nNew York Nationals\n\n\nShelbourne\n\nCork F.C.\n\n"}
{"id": "35741235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35741235", "title": "Incyte", "text": "Incyte\n\nIncyte, Corp is an American pharmaceutical company based in Alapocas, Delaware. The company was founded in Palo Alto, California in 1991 and went public in 1993.\n\nIncyte has one drug, Jakafi, which has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and has been prescribed to several thousands of patients in the United States. \n\nAs of 2014 the company was developing baricitinib, an oral JAK1 and JAK2 inhibitor drug for rheumatoid arthritis in partnership with Eli Lilly. It gained EU approval in February 2017. In April 2017, the US FDA issued a rejection, citing concerns about dosing and safety.\n\nAs of 2016 epacadostat, an indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO1) inhibitor, was in development for various cancers and was in combination trials with Merck's pembrolizumab (Keytruda) and Bristol Myers Squibb's nivolumab (Opdivo).\n\nNovartis acquired Incyte's c-Met inhibitor capmatinib (INC280, INCB028060), which is in Phase II clinical trial as monotherapy in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.\n\nIn 2014, Incyte named Hervé Hoppenot president and CEO. Hoppenot had previously served as the president of Novartis Oncology; he had been with Novartis since 2003.\n\nIn September 2015, the company announced it had gained exclusive development and commercial right pertaining to Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine Co., Ltd's anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody, SHR-1210, in a deal worth $795+ million.\n"}
{"id": "1865410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1865410", "title": "J. I. Rodale", "text": "J. I. Rodale\n\nJerome Irving Rodale (; August 16, 1898 – June 8, 1971) was a publisher, editor, author, playwright, and founder of Rodale, Inc.\n\nRodale was an early advocate of sustainable agriculture and organic farming in the United States. As an author, his work included several magazines and books, including books featuring different authors, on the subject of health. He popularized the term \"organic\" as a term for growing food without pesticides. Rodale also published works on other topics, including \"The Synonym Finder\".\n\nRodale died after suffering a fatal heart attack on-camera. While appearing as a guest on a segment of \"The Dick Cavett Show\", that subsequently never aired, he slumped back in his seat and became unresponsive. He was taken to Roosevelt Hospital Center and was pronounced dead on arrival at the age of 72.\n\nRodale was born in Manhattan on August 16, 1898, the son of a grocer, and raised on the Lower East Side. His birth name was Cohen, but presuming it would be a handicap in business, he changed it to a non-Jewish-sounding one. He worked as an accountant for New York City 1917-1920, and worked for the Internal Revenue Service 1920-21. His brother Joseph and he co-founded Rodale Manufacturing, a maker of electrical equipment, in New York in 1923. He married Anna Andrews in 1927, she died in 2000 at 95. and had three children: Robert Rodale (1930–1990), Nina Rodale (who married Robert Hale Horstman and then married Arthur Houghton), and Ruth Rodale. Rodale was already concerned with his health at this time, as he had frequent heart murmurs and had been rejected from the Army in World War I for bad eyesight. To improve his health, he read the works of Bernarr Macfadden and invented an exercising device. \nThe Rodale brothers moved Rodale Manufacturing to Emmaus, Pennsylvania, in 1930 to cut costs during the Depression. He founded Rodale Press in 1930, marketing books and magazines. Inspired by his encounter with the ideas of Albert Howard, Rodale developed an interest in promoting a healthy and active lifestyle that emphasized organically grown foods, and established the Rodale Organic Gardening Experimental Farm in 1940. Rodale Press started publishing \"Organic Farming and Gardening\" magazine in 1942. \"Organic Farming and Gardening\" promotes organic horticulture; later, the magazine was retitled \"Organic Gardening\". To Rodale, agriculture and health were inseparable. Healthy soil required compost and eschewing pesticides and synthetic fertilizers. Eating plants grown in such soil would then help humans stay healthier, he expounded.\n\nOne of Rodale's most successful projects was \"Prevention\" magazine, founded in 1950, which promotes practices preventing disease rather than trying to cure it later. It pioneered the return to whole grains, unrefined sweets, using little fat in food preparation, seldom eating animal products, folk cures, herbal medicines, and breastfeeding. It also promoted the consumption of higher than typical amounts of nutritional supplements and forgoing nicotine and caffeine.\n\nRodale was also a playwright, operating the Cecilwood Theater in Fishkill, New York, and the off-Broadway Rodale Theater at 62 East Fourth Street in the East Village. Rodale's plays included \"Toinette\" (1961) and \"The Hairy Falsetto\" (1964).\n\nRodale died of a heart attack at the age of 72 while participating as a guest on an early-evening taping of \"The Dick Cavett Show\" slated to be aired that same night, Tuesday, June 8, 1971. Rodale was still on stage, having finished his interview, and was seated on a couch next to the active interviewee, \"New York Post\" columnist Pete Hamill. Rodale had stated during his just-completed interview on the show, \"I'm in such good health that I fell down a long flight of stairs yesterday and I laughed all the way\", \"I've decided to live to be a hundred\", and \"I never felt better in my life!\" He had also previously said, \"I'm going to live to be 100, unless I'm run down by some sugar-crazed taxi driver.\"\n\nAccording to Dick Cavett, Hamill noticed something was wrong with Rodale, leaned over to Cavett, and said, \"This looks bad.\" According to others, Cavett asked, \"Are we boring you, Mr. Rodale?\" Cavett himself said that he \"emphatically\" did not recall saying this, but one of the two physicians in the audience did remember this. The physicians (an internist and orthopedic surgeon, both in residency) rushed onto the stage to try to revive Rodale with cardiopulmonary resuscitation, including mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. (During an appearance on \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\" that originally aired on February 5, 1982, Cavett stated \"firefighters from across the street\" also attended the patient.) Although an electrocardiogram continued to show cardiac activity, they were unsuccessful; Rodale was pronounced dead on arrival at Roosevelt Hospital. The episode was never broadcast, although Cavett has described the story in public appearances and on his blog.\n\nAfter Rodale's death, his son Robert Rodale ran the publishing firm until his own death in a car accident in 1990. That work included editing the high-circulation \"Prevention\" magazine. Robert Rodale had competed in the Olympics in rifle shooting and was inducted into the United States Bicycling Hall of Fame in 1991.\n\nRodale's granddaughter Maria Rodale became chairman and CEO of Rodale, Inc. She attributes her interest in the organic food movement to growing up on America's first certified organic farm.\nIn October 2017 New York media giant Hearst Corp. announced it will acquire the magazine and book businesses of the 90-year-old Rodale Inc. for an undisclosed price.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12279552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12279552", "title": "Jaak Aab", "text": "Jaak Aab\n\nJaak Aab (born 9 April 1960 in Taagepera) is an Estonian politician and a former Minister of Social Affairs of Estonia. He belongs to the Estonian Centre Party (\"Eesti Keskerakond\").\n\nJaak Aab attended school in Ala (Helme Parish in Valga County) and in Viljandi. After graduating from high school in 1978, he studied to become a teacher in Russian language and literature from 1978 to 1986 at the Pedagogical Institute in Tallinn (\"Tallinna Pedagoogiline Instituut\", today known as the University of Tallinn). From 1984 to 1991, he was active as a teacher in Ala and Võhma. From 1991 to 1994, Aab worked in Finland.\n\nBack in Estonia, Aab became involved politically. From November 1994 to January 1996, he was the acting senior mayor of the city of Võhma. From August 1998 to February 2002, Aab held the office of senior mayor. From February 2002 to March 2003, Aab was a representative in the Estonian Parliament (Riigikogu). From July 2003 to April 2005, he was the executive director of the Estonian Association of Cities and Towns (\"Eesti Linnade Liit\"), before Prime Minister Andrus Ansip appointed him to his cabinet in 2005. From April 13, 2005 to April 5, 2007, Jaak Aab was the Minister of Social Affairs of the Republic of Estonia.\n\nSince April 2007, Aab has been a representative of the Estonian Parliament and acting chairman of the Social Committee.\n\nJaak Aab is married to teacher Kaie Aab (born 1958). The couple has two daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "56992667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56992667", "title": "Jehan de Beauce", "text": "Jehan de Beauce\n\nJehan Texier (before 1474 – 29 December 1529 in Chartres) known under the name Jehan de Beauce was a 15th/16th-century French architect. He is known for his works of religious architecture, notably on the Chartres cathedral of which he reconstructed the northern spire.\n\nJehan de Beauce probably settled in Maine at the end of the 15th century: his name appeared in 1474 in the accounts of the town of Orléans.\n\nUntil 1506 he resided at Vendôme where he participated in the building of the Trinity Abbey.\n\nIn 1506, he was commissioned to rebuild the northern bell tower of the Chartres Cathedral destroyed by lightning on 26 July 1506.\n\nIn Chartres, Jehan de Beauce also built:\n\n"}
{"id": "59205342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59205342", "title": "Jiggs II", "text": "Jiggs II\n\nJiggs II (September 22, 1925 – March 30, 1937), also known as Silent White Richard, was the second of a number of English Bulldogs to serve as mascots of the United States Marine Corps. He succeeded the original mascot, Jiggs, following that dog's death in 1927. A champion of the Westminster Dog Show, Jiggs II died in 1937 and was buried with full military honors at Marine Corps Base Quantico.\n\nJiggs II was whelped in Huntington, New York as Silent White Richard, the son of the champion show dog Silent White Duke, his father described by the \"Boston Globe\" as \"one of the best-blooded English Bulldogs in America\". He was almost entirely white with brindle markings on his face and tail. \nSilent White Richard won a blue ribbon at the 1926 Westminster Dog Show.\n\nThe following year, he was presented to the United States Marine Corps by his owner, heavyweight boxing champion Gene Tunney – himself a former Marine – after Tunney learned of the death of Marine mascot Jiggs in January of that year. He was formally accepted by the Marine Corps on March 27, 1927 and subsequently renamed Jiggs II. At the time of his donation, Jiggs II was 17 months old, stood 15 inches high, and weighed 47 pounds. \n\nSome months after Tunney donated Jiggs II, the dog was temporarily transferred back to the boxer to serve as mascot at his Chicago training camp before being returned to Marine service. \n\nIn 1930, Jiggs II made another appearance at the Westminster Dog Show as a non-competing guest. He was named by the show \"Honorary Champion\".\n\nDuring his career Jiggs II was posted to Marine Barracks Washington, Marine Corps Base Quantico, and Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island. Notionally enlisted as a private, he was subsequently advanced to sergeant major. He briefly served alongside Private Pagett (registered in pedigree under the name Pride of Field), an English Bulldog donated by the Corps of Royal Marines to the U.S. Marine Corps in 1927.\n\nEarly in his military career, the \"Boston Globe\" described Jiggs II as \"ferocious looking\" but with a \"mild manner and gentle disposition\". Writing in a 1937 issue of \"American Kennel Gazette\", then retired Sergeant Major Clarance Proctor affirmed this description of Jiggs II.\n\nJiggs II died in 1937 and was buried in Quantico, Virginia with full military honors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40859649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40859649", "title": "Julie Dahle Aagård", "text": "Julie Dahle Aagård\n\nJulie Dahle Aagård (born 30 December 1978 in Flatanger, Norway) is a Norwegian Jazz musician (vocals).\n\nAagård is a graduate singing teacher from the Jazz program at Trondheim Musikkonsevatorium (1997-2002)\n\nShe has also been active in the art scene, first in her own cabaret, \"Julie, heilt ålein\" (1998), later in \"Lady Arbuthnott\" at Sunndalsøra, \"Mack & Mabel\" at \"Hedmark Teater\" and \"Havet legg aldri stilt\" (Norveg). She played the Primary Role in the production \"Piaf\" (2005) at Det Norske Teatret and in 2010 she was the slave Anna, in the historic play \"Håkon og Kark\" (Korsvikaspillet) at Lade in Trondheim.\n\nHer debut solo album \"Det Klaraste Lyset\", produced by Åge Aleksandersen, and premiered at the World Ski Championships 1997 in Trondheim. She also released \"Goodnight Stranger\". She collaborates in the bands \"Gutvik 5\" (Ketil Gutvik), Cannonballs, and Reggae Kings. She was a leading figure in the quintet Subtonic from 2003, where her texts appeared on the album \"In This House\" (2004).\n\nIn 2002 she performed the songs \"Follow Your Heart\", \"It's What's Inside That Counts\", \"The World is Looking Up to You\" and \"Put It Together\" in the Norwegian version of Disney's \"\".\n\nFor a few years, Aagård has toured with the Trondheim Voices, and in 2009 she released the solo album \"Stumpin' Feet\", nominated for Spellemannprisen 2009 in the category Female artist. The debut performance with her own band Julie Dahle Aagård Orchestra was at Jazzfest, the Trondheim Jazz Festival in 2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "177442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177442", "title": "Jumbo", "text": "Jumbo\n\nJumbo (about Christmas 1860 – September 15, 1885), also known as Jumbo the Elephant and Jumbo the Circus Elephant, was a 19th-century male African bush elephant born in Sudan. Jumbo was exported to Jardin des Plantes, a zoo in Paris, and then transferred in 1865 to London Zoo in England. Despite public protest, Jumbo was sold to P. T. Barnum, who took him to the United States for exhibition in March 1882.\n\nThe giant elephant's name has spawned the common word, \"jumbo\", meaning large in size. Jumbo's shoulder height has been estimated to be at the time of his death, and was claimed to be about by Barnum.\n\nJumbo is the Tufts University mascot, and is referenced by a plaque outside the old Liberal Hall, now a Wetherspoons pub, in Crediton.\n\nJumbo was born around Christmas 1860 in Sudan, and after his mother was killed by hunters, the infant Jumbo was captured by Sudanese elephant hunter Taher Sheriff. The calf was sold to Lorenzo Casanova, an Italian animal dealer and explorer. Casanova transported the animals that he had bought from Sudan north to Suez, and then across the Mediterranean Sea to Trieste.\n\nThis collection was sold to Gottlieb Christian Kreutzberg's \"Menagerie Kreutzberg\" in Germany. Soon after, the elephant was imported to France and kept in the Paris zoo Jardin des Plantes. In 1865, he was transferred to the London Zoo, arriving on 26 June, and became famous for giving rides to visitors, especially children. London zookeeper association leader Anoshan Anathajeyasri gave Jumbo his name; it is likely a variation of one of two Swahili words: \"jambo\", which means \"hello\"; or \"jumbe\", meaning \"chief\". If Anathajeyasri was from India, he possibly named Jumbo after a gigantic rose-apple tree called \"jambu\" (which at that time would be transliterated as 'jumboo'), which grows on the mythical Mount Meru and whose fruits were said to be as large as elephants.\n\nWhile in London, Jumbo broke both tusks, and when they regrew, he ground them down against the stonework of his enclosure. His keeper in London was Matthew Scott, whose 1885 autobiography details his life with Jumbo.\n\nJumbo was sold in February 1882 to the Barnum & Bailey Circus for £2,000. Popular objection occurred when Barnum's proposal became known; 100,000 school children wrote to Queen Victoria begging her not to sell the elephant. John Ruskin, a fellow of the Zoological Society, wrote in \"The Morning Post\" in February 1882:\n\"I, for one of the said fellows, am not in the habit of selling my old pets or parting with my old servants because I find them subject occasionally, perhaps even \"periodically,\" to fits of ill temper; and I not only \"regret\" the proceedings of the council, but disclaim them utterly, as disgraceful to the city of London and dishonourable to common humanity.\" Despite a lawsuit against the Zoological Gardens alleging the sale was in violation of multiple zoo bylaws, and the zoo's attempt to renege on the sale, the court upheld the sale and Barnum refused to sell Jumbo back. Matthew Scott elected to go with Jumbo to the USA.\n\nIn New York, Barnum exhibited Jumbo at Madison Square Garden, earning enough in three weeks from the enormous crowds to recoup the money he spent to buy the animal. In the 31-week season, the circus earned $1.75M, largely due to its star attraction. On 30 May 1884, Jumbo was one of Barnum's 21 elephants that crossed the Brooklyn Bridge to prove that it was safe after 12 people died during a stampede caused by mass panic over collapse fears a year earlier.\n\nJumbo died at a railway classification yard in Canada at St. Thomas, Ontario on September 15, 1885. In those days the circus crisscrossed North America by train. St. Thomas was the perfect location for a circus because many rail lines converged there. Jumbo and the other animals had finished their performances that night, and as they were being led to their box car, a train came down the track. Jumbo was hit and mortally wounded, dying within minutes.\n\nBarnum told the story that Tom Thumb, a young circus elephant, was walking on the railroad tracks and Jumbo was attempting to lead him to safety. Barnum claimed that the locomotive hit and killed Tom Thumb before it derailed and hit Jumbo. However, other witnesses did not support Barnum's account. According to newspapers, the freight train hit Jumbo directly, killing him, while Tom Thumb suffered a broken leg.\n\nMany metallic objects were found in the elephant's stomach, including English pennies, keys, rivets, and a police whistle.\n\nEver the showman, Barnum had portions of his star attraction separated, to have multiple sites attracting curious spectators. After touring with Barnum's circus, the skeleton was donated to the American Museum of Natural History in New York City, where it remains. The elephant's heart was sold to Cornell University. Jumbo's hide was stuffed by William J. Critchley and Carl Akeley, both of Ward's Natural Science, who stretched it during the mounting process; the mounted specimen traveled with Barnum's circus for two years.\n\nBarnum eventually donated the stuffed Jumbo to Tufts University, where it was displayed at P.T. Barnum Hall there for many years. The hide was destroyed in a fire in April 1975. Ashes from that fire, which are believed to contain the elephant's remains, are kept in a 14-ounce Peter Pan Crunchy Peanut Butter jar in the office of the Tufts athletic director, while his taxidermied tail, removed during earlier renovations, resides in the holdings of the Tufts Digital Collections and Archives.\n\nRemaining in the United Kingdom are statues and other memorabilia of Jumbo. The elephant – or rather its statuette in the Natural History Museum – was made holotype of Richard Lydekker's proposed subspecies (\"Loxodonta africana rothschildi\") for the large elephants of the eastern Sahel. Modern authorities do not recognize this (or any other subspecies of African bush elephants), considering its purportedly diagnostic large size and peculiarly shaped ears to be individual variation.\n\nWhile Jumbo's hide resided at Tufts' P.T. Barnum Hall, a superstition held that dropping a coin into a nostril of the trunk would bring good luck on an examination or sports event. Although the hide was destroyed by a major fire, Jumbo remains the mascot of Tufts, and representations of the elephant are featured prominently throughout the campus.\nA life-sized statue of the elephant was erected in 1985 in St. Thomas, Ontario, to commemorate the centennial of the elephant's death. It is located on Talbot Street on the west side of the city. In 2006, the Jumbo statue was inducted into the North America Railway Hall of Fame in the category of \"Railway Art Forms & Events\" as having local significance.\n\nJumbo was the inspiration of the nickname of the 19th-century Jumbo Water Tower in the town of Colchester in Essex, England.\nLucy the Elephant, a six-story structure in Margate City, New Jersey, was modeled after Jumbo. Built by James V. Lafferty in 1881, Lucy is the oldest surviving roadside tourist attraction in America and a National Historic Landmark. Lafferty also made other Jumbo-shaped structures, including Elephantine Colossus, on Coney Island.\n\nJumbo has been lionized on a series of sheet-music covers from roughly 1882–83. The four-colour lithograph of Jumbo was created by Alfred Concanen of England, with the music title \"Why Part With Jumbo\", a song by the \"lion comique\" of Victorian British music halls, G. H. MacDermott. It pictured children zoo visitors riding, somewhat precariously, on Jumbo's back. Multiple American lithographic music covers were done, including by J. H. Bufford's Sons.\n\nCanadian folk singer James Gordon wrote the song \"Jumbo's Last Ride\", which recounts the story of Jumbo's life and death. It is on his 1999 CD \"Pipe Street Dreams\".\n\nA television program about Jumbo, \"Attenborough and the Giant Elephant\", presented by the naturalist and broadcaster David Attenborough, was transmitted on BBC One in the United Kingdom on 10 December 2017. An international team of scientists examined the skeleton and found:\n\n"}
{"id": "16061958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16061958", "title": "Keith Cox", "text": "Keith Cox\n\nKeith Gordon Cox FRS (25 April 1933 – 27 August 1998) was a British geologist and academic at the University of Oxford. He had a particular interest in flood basalts and was regarded as one of the leading experts in this area.\n\nCox was born in Birmingham, England, where his father was a university lecturer in chemistry. After wartime evacuation to Canada, Cox attended King Edward's School, Birmingham and Leeds Grammar School. He completed national service in the Royal Engineers between 1950 and 1952. He then took a scholarship to The Queen's College, Oxford, where he obtained a first-class degree in geology in 1956. He lost an eye in an accident in the Lake District whilst on a field trip in 1955. After Oxford, Cox carried out further research at the University of Leeds before being appointed lecturer in petrology at Edinburgh University. In 1972 he became a lecturer in geology at Oxford, being appointed a fellow of Jesus College, Oxford in 1973. He was appointed a Reader in 1988, the same year in which he became a Fellow of the Royal Society. He made several trips to South Africa and collaborated with local geochemists such as Dr. A.J. Erlank. He drowned in a sailing accident at Erraid off the Isle of Mull in the Hebrides on 27 August 1998.\n\nCox's doctoral and post-doctoral research at Leeds was on the Masukwe Complex in the Nuanetsi region of what was then called Southern Rhodesia. This led to his developing a particular interest in flood basalts, upon which topic he in due course became a world expert. Cox contemplated the significance of the geochemistry of these rocks during his work in the Karoo region and, whilst at Edinburgh, also studiied conperable rocks from the Deccan area of India, as well as rocks from southern Arabia. His research at Oxford also covered flood basalts in the Parana region of South America, the Hebrides and Antarctica. He also studied kimberlites.\n\nHe edited the Journal of Petrology (1971–83) and Earth and Planetary Science Letters (1981–85). He also wrote two textbooks: \"An Introduction to the Practical Study of Crystals, Minerals and Rocks\" (1967) (with B. N. Price and B. Harte) and \"The Interpretation of Igneous Rocks\" (1979) (with J. D. Bell and R. J. Pankhurst).\n"}
{"id": "9334591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9334591", "title": "Koinophilia", "text": "Koinophilia\n\nKoinophilia is an evolutionary hypothesis proposing that during sexual selection, animals preferentially seek mates with a minimum of unusual or mutant features, including functionality, appearance and behavior. Koinophilia intends to explain the clustering of sexual organisms into species and other issues described by . The term derives from the Greek, \"koinos\", \"common\", \"that which is shared\", and \"philia\", \"fondness\".\n\nNatural selection causes beneficial inherited features to become more common at the expense of their disadvantageous counterparts. The koinophilia hypothesis proposes that a sexually-reproducing animal would therefore be expected to avoid individuals with rare or unusual features, and to prefer to mate with individuals displaying a predominance of common or average features. Mutants with strange, odd or peculiar features would be avoided because most mutations that manifest themselves as changes in appearance, functionality or behavior are disadvantageous. Because it is impossible to judge whether a new mutation is beneficial (or might be advantageous in the unforeseeable future) or not, koinophilic animals avoid them all, at the cost of avoiding the very occasional potentially beneficial mutation. Thus, koinophilia, although not infallible in its ability to distinguish fit from unfit mates, is a good strategy when choosing a mate. A koinophilic choice ensures that offspring are likely to inherit a suite of features and attributes that have served all the members of the species well in the past.\n\nKoinophilia differs from the \"like prefers like\" mating pattern of assortative mating. If like preferred like, leucistic animals (such as white peacocks) would be sexually attracted to one another, and a leucistic subspecies would come into being. Koinophilia predicts that this is unlikely because leucistic animals are attracted to the average in the same way as are all the other members of its species. Since non-leucistic animals are not attracted by leucism, few leucistic individuals find mates, and leucistic lineages will rarely form.\n\nKoinophilia provides simple explanations for the almost universal canalization of sexual creatures into species, the rarity of transitional forms between species (between both extant and fossil species), evolutionary stasis, punctuated equilibria, and the evolution of cooperation. Koinophilia might also contribute to the \"maintenance\" of sexual reproduction, preventing its reversion to the much simpler and inherently more advantageous asexual form of reproduction.\n\nThe koinophilia hypothesis is supported by the findings of Judith Langlois and her co-workers. They found that the average of two human faces was more attractive than either of the faces from which that average was derived. The more faces (of the same gender and age) that were used in the averaging process the more attractive and appealing the average face became. This work into averageness supports koinophilia as an explanation of what constitutes a beautiful face.\n\nBiologists from Darwin onwards have puzzled over how whose adult members look extraordinarily alike, and distinctively different from the members of other species. Lions and leopards are, for instance, both large carnivores that inhabit the same general environment, and hunt much the same prey, but look quite different. The question is why intermediates do not exist. \n\nThis is the \"horizontal\" dimension of a two-dimensional problem, referring to the almost complete absence of transitional or intermediate forms between present-day species (e.g. between lions, leopards, and cheetahs).\n\nThe \"vertical\" dimension concerns the fossil record. Fossil species are frequently remarkably stable over extremely long periods of geological time, despite continental drift, major climate changes, and mass extinctions. When a change in form occurs, it tends to be abrupt in geological terms, again producing phenotypic gaps (i.e. an absence of intermediate forms), but now between successive species, which then often co-exist for long periods of time. Thus the fossil record suggests that evolution occurs in bursts, interspersed by long periods of evolutionary stagnation in so-called punctuated equilibria. Why this is so has been an evolutionary enigma ever since .\n\nKoinophilia could explain both the horizontal and vertical manifestations of speciation, and why it, as a general rule, involves the entire external appearance of the animals concerned. Since koinophilia affects the \"entire\" external appearance, the members of an interbreeding group are driven to look alike in every detail. Each interbreeding group will rapidly develop its own characteristic appearance. An individual from one group which wanders into another group will consequently be recognized as different, and will be discriminated against during the mating season. Reproductive isolation induced by koinophilia might thus be the first crucial step in the development of, ultimately, physiological, anatomical and behavioral barriers to hybridization, and thus, ultimately, full specieshood. Koinophilia will thereafter defend that species' appearance and behavior against invasion by unusual or unfamiliar forms (which might arise by immigration or mutation), and thus be a paradigm of punctuated equilibria (or the \"vertical\" aspect of the speciation problem).\n\nEvolution can be extremely rapid, as shown by the creation of domesticated animals and plants in a very short period of geological time, spanning only a few tens of thousands of years, by humans with little or no knowledge of genetics. Maize, \"Zea mays\", for instance, was created in Mexico in only a few thousand years, starting about 7 000 to 12 000 years ago. This raises the question of why the long term rate of evolution is far slower than is theoretically possible.\n\nEvolution is imposed on species or groups. It is not planned or striven for in some Lamarckist way. The mutations on which the process depends are random events, and, except for the \"silent mutations\" which do not affect the functionality or appearance of the carrier, are thus usually disadvantageous, and their chance of proving to be useful in the future is vanishingly small. Therefore, while a species or group might benefit by being able to adapt to a new environment through the accumulation of a wide range of genetic variation, this is to the detriment of the \"individuals\" who have to carry these mutations until a small, unpredictable minority of them ultimately contributes to such an adaptation. Thus, the \"capability\" to evolve is a group adaptation, which has been discredited by, among others, George C. Williams, John Maynard Smith and Richard Dawkins. because it is not to the benefit of the individual.\n\nConsequently, sexual \"individuals\" would be expected to avoid transmitting mutations to their progeny by avoiding mates with strange or unusual characteristics. Mutations that therefore affect the external appearance and habits of their carriers will seldom be passed on to the next and subsequent generations. They will therefore seldom be tested by natural selection. Evolutionary change in a large population with a wide choice of mates, will, therefore, come to a virtual standstill. The only mutations that can accumulate in a population are ones that have no noticeable effect on the outward appearance and functionality of their bearers (they are thus termed \"silent\" or \"neutral mutations\").\n\nThe restraint koinophilia exerts on phenotypic change suggests that evolution can only occur if mutant mates cannot be avoided as a result of a severe scarcity of potential mates. This is most likely to occur in small restricted communities, such as on small islands, in remote valleys, lakes, river systems, caves, or during periods of glaciation, or following mass extinctions, when sudden bursts of evolution can be expected. Under these circumstances, not only is the choice of mates severely restricted, but population bottlenecks, founder effects, genetic drift and inbreeding cause rapid, random changes in the isolated population's genetic composition. Furthermore, hybridization with a related species trapped in the same isolate might introduce additional genetic changes. If an isolated population such as this survives its genetic upheavals, and subsequently expands into an unoccupied niche, or into a niche in which it has an advantage over its competitors, a new species, or subspecies, will have come in being. In geological terms this will be an abrupt event. A resumption of avoiding mutant mates will, thereafter, result, once again, in evolutionary stagnation.\n\nThus the fossil record of an evolutionary progression typically consists of species that suddenly appear, and ultimately disappear hundreds of thousands or millions of years later, without any change in external appearance. Graphically, these fossil species are represented by horizontal lines, whose lengths depict how long each of them existed. The horizontality of the lines illustrates the unchanging appearance of each of the fossil species depicted on the graph. During each species' existence new species appear at random intervals, each also lasting many hundreds of thousands of years before disappearing without a change in appearance. The degree of relatedness and the lines of descent of these concurrent species is generally impossible to determine. This is illustrated in the following diagram depicting the evolution of modern humans from the time that the hominins separated from the line that led to the evolution of our closest living primate relatives, the chimpanzees.\n\nThis proposal, that population bottlenecks are possibly the primary generators of the variation that fuels evolution, predicts that evolution will usually occur in intermittent, relatively large scale morphological steps, interspersed with prolonged periods of evolutionary stagnation, instead of in a continuous series of finely graded changes. However, it makes a further prediction. Darwin emphasized that the shared biologically useless oddities and incongruities that characterize a species are signs of an evolutionary history – something that would not be expected if a bird’s wing, for instance, was engineered \"de novo\", as argued by his detractors. The present model predicts that, in addition to vestiges which reflect an organism’s evolutionary heritage, all the members of a given species will also bear the stamp of their isolationary past – arbitrary, random features, accumulated through founder effects, genetic drift and the other genetic consequences of sexual reproduction in small, isolated communities. Thus all lions, African and Asian, have a highly characteristic black tuft of fur at the end of their tails, which is difficult to explain in terms of an adaptation, or as a vestige from an early feline, or more ancient ancestor. The unique, often color- and pattern-rich plumage of each of today’s wide variety of bird species presents a similar evolutionary enigma. This richly varied array of phenotypes is more easily explained as the products of isolates, subsequently defended by koinophilia, than as assemblies of very diverse evolutionary relics, or as sets of uniquely evolved adaptations.\n\nCo-operation is any group behavior that benefits the individuals more than if they were to act as independent agents. \n\nHowever selfish individuals can exploit the co-operativeness of others by not taking part in the group activity, but still enjoying its benefits. For instance, a selfish individual which does not join the hunting pack and share in its risks, but nevertheless shares in the spoils, has a fitness advantage over the other members of the pack. Thus, although a group of co-operative individuals is fitter than an equivalent group of selfish individuals, selfish individuals interspersed among a community of co-operators are always fitter than their hosts. They will raise, on average, more offspring than their hosts, and will ultimately replace them.\n\nIf, however, the selfish individuals are ostracized, and rejected as mates, because of their deviant and unusual behavior, then their evolutionary advantage becomes an evolutionary liability. Co-operation then becomes evolutionarily stable.\n\nThe best-documented creations of new species in the laboratory were performed in the late 1980s. William Rice and G.W. Salt bred fruit flies, \"Drosophila melanogaster\", using a maze with three different choices of habitat, such as light/dark and wet/dry. Each generation was placed into the maze, and the groups of flies that came out of two of the eight exits were set apart to breed with each other in their respective groups. After thirty-five generations, the two groups and their offspring were isolated reproductively because of their strong habitat preferences: they mated only within the areas they preferred, and so did not mate with flies that preferred the other areas. The history of such attempts is described in Rice and Hostert (1993).\n\nDiane Dodd used a laboratory experiment to show how reproductive isolation can evolve in \"Drosophila pseudoobscura\" fruit flies after several generations by placing them in different media, starch- or maltose-based media. \n\nDodd's experiment has been easy for many others to replicate, including with other kinds of fruit flies and foods.\n\nWilliam B. Miller, in an extensive recent (2013) review of koinophilia theory, notes that while it provides precise explanations for the grouping of sexual animals into species, their unchanging persistence in the fossil record over long periods of time, and the phenotypic gaps between species, both fossil and extant, it represents a major departure from the widely accepted view that beneficial mutations spread, ultimately, to the whole, or some portion of the population (causing it to evolve gene by gene). Darwin recognized that this process had no inherent, or inevitable propensity to produce species. Instead populations would be in a . They would, at any given moment, consist of individuals with varying numbers of beneficial characteristics that may or may not have reached them from their various points of origin in the population, and neutral features will have a scattering determined by random mechanisms such as genetic drift.\n\nHe also notes that koinophilia provides no explanation as to how the physiological, anatomical and genetic causes of reproductive isolation come about. It is only the behavioral reproductive isolation that is addressed by koinophilia. It is furthermore difficult to see how koinophilia might apply to plants, and certain marine creatures that discharge their gametes into the environment to meet up and fuse, it seems, entirely randomly (within conspecific confines). However, when pollen from several compatible donors is used to pollinate stigmata, the donors typically do not sire equal numbers of seeds. Marshall and Diggle state that the existence of some kind of non-random seed paternity is, in fact, not in question in flowering plants. It is how this occurs that remains unknown. Pollen choice is one of the possibilities, taking into account that 50% of the pollen grain’s haploid genome is expressed during its tube’s growth towards the ovule.\n\nThe apparent preference of the females of certain, particularly bird, species for exaggerated male ornaments, such as the peacock’s tail, is not easily reconciled with the concept of koinophilia.\n"}
{"id": "41311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41311", "title": "Layered system", "text": "Layered system\n\nIn telecommunication, a layered system is a system in which components are grouped, \"i.e.\", layered, in a hierarchical arrangement, such that lower layers provide functions and services that support the functions and services of higher layers. \n\nSystems of ever-increasing complexity and capability can be built by adding or changing the layers to improve overall system capability while using the components that are still in place.\n"}
{"id": "31799222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31799222", "title": "List of massacres in Sri Lanka", "text": "List of massacres in Sri Lanka\n\nThe following is a list of massacres that have occurred in Sri Lanka and its predecessors (numbers may be approximate):\n"}
{"id": "3166165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3166165", "title": "Macrofossil", "text": "Macrofossil\n\nMacrofossils, also known as megafossils, are preserved organic remains large enough to be visible without a microscope. The term \"macrofossil\" stands in opposition to the term microfossil. Microfossils, by contrast, require substantial magnification for evaluation by fossil-hunters or professional paleontologists. As a result, most fossils observed in the field and most \"museum-quality\" specimens are macrofossils.\n\nPlant macrofossils include leaf, needle, cone, and stem debris; and can be used to identify types of plants formerly growing in the area. Such botanical macrofossil data provide a valuable complement to pollen and faunal data that can be used to reconstruct the prehistoric terrestrial environment. Algal macrofossils (for instance, brown kelp, sea lettuce and large stromatolites) are increasingly used to analyze prehistoric marine and aquatic ecosystems.\n\nAnimal macrofossils include the teeth, skulls, and bones of vertebrates, as well as such invertebrate remains as shells, tests, faunal armor, and exoskeletons. Fossilized dung (that is, coprolites) are also macrofossils.\n"}
{"id": "56264550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56264550", "title": "María Francisca Ricart Olmos", "text": "María Francisca Ricart Olmos\n\nBlessed María Francisca Ricart Olmos (23 February 1881 - 2 October 1936) - in religious María Guadalupe - was a Spanish Roman Catholic professed religious from the Servite Order. Ricart's call to the religious life manifested at the time she made her First Communion after expressing the desire to consecrate herself to God; she entered the convent when she turned fifteen and served her convent as both a novice mistress and prioress. Her peers held her in high regard for her dedication to helping and instructing new nuns as well as for her compassionate and jovial character.\n\nRicart's beatification process opened in the late 1950s and concluded upon her beatification itself on 11 March 2001 in which Pope John Paul II beatified her and 232 others slain during the Spanish Civil War.\n\nMaría Francisca Ricart Olmos was born in 1881 in Albal nine kilometers from Valencia as the second of four children to Francisco Ricart and María Olmos; she was baptized within a week following her birth. Her eldest sibling was José and the two siblings that followed her were Antonio and Filomena. Her father died in 1885 due to illness and people in their village often referred to her mother as a saint.\n\nRicart became an active participant in parish life and later made her First Communion in 1891. Ricart was known for being exuberant in her childhood but was noted to have grown more reserved following her First Communion due to the strengthening of her faith; she still maintained a kind and amiable disposition to those around her. The Venerable Vicente Garrido Pastor oversaw her and other girls' formation for First Communion and asked if some of them would be willing to dedicate themselves to God. Garrido was surprised when Ricart raised her hand at once and replied in the affirmative with a smile.\n\nThe girl made frequent visits to the Pie de la Cruz convent of the Servite Order in Valencia since it was there that her mother had a friend. This made the convent recognizable for Ricart who longed to enter it as a nun. It was also in that place that her call to the religious life grew to the point where both her mother and parish priest agreed to allow her to enter the convent on 11 July 1896 after she turned fifteen. It was upon her arrival to the convent that she became a postulant before doing her novitiate and initial profession. Ricart made her solemn religious profession on 19 June 1900 in the habit as \"María Guadalupe\".\n\nFrom 1928 until 1931 she served as the novice mistress before she served as the convent's prioress from 1931 until 1934 when she was re-elected as the novice mistress; she would hold that position until her death. Ricart was devoted to the Passion and often meditated on the sufferings of the Mother at the foot of the Cross. Her colleagues held her in high regard for her jovial and compassionate spirit as well as for her strong leadership abilities while noting her dedication to passing down the proper values of contemplative life to new members.\n\nIn July 1936 the Archbishop of Valencia Prudencio Melo i Alcalde ordered the religious of the convent to adopt secular clothing and flee their convent to take refuge with their families due to the increasing violence and anti-religious sentiment of the Spanish Civil War. Ricart first moved into her niece's home but remained there for just over a week since her niece was pregnant and Ricart did not wish to jeopardize her niece's life. Ricart moved to Albal after this at the month's end to reside with her sister Filomena.\n\nOn 2 October 1936 just after midnight she was disturbed after hearing a commotion. Ricart left her room to see her sister and brother-in-law José attempting to prevent four militiamen from searching the house. Filomena had been seated while José was asleep when the four men knocked on the window three times asking to be allowed into the home. Ricart made her presence known to which one soldier asked if she was a nun after a scapular and other items were discovered. Ricart replied \"I am a nun\" to which the same man said: \"You must come with us\". Ricart was calm and offered no resistance as she said \"then let's go\". The nun climbed into the back of a truck clutching her crucifix and urged courage to her sister and brother-in-law. Her final actions were first to thank José for all he had done for her and hugging Filomena with a calm and serene look.\n\nRicart was hauled before a sham tribunal which sentenced her to death. But she demonstrated a great degree of peace which made her executioners hesitant in following their orders. One of the militiamen grew frustrated and called them \"cowards\" before declaring that he would kill her himself. Ricart was killed two hours later at 4:00am after two shots ended her life as well as a period of extreme abuse and ill-treatment. Ricart was killed in Torre Espioca along the Silla-Picassent town borders on the provincial road to Madrid.\n\nHer remains were left in a common grave but relocated on 2 March 1940 to the convent before being moved again to the relocated convent at Mislata beside the main altar. Her remains were exhumed on 19 June 2000 for canonical inspection. This meant her remains would be examined before being re-clothed and sterilized for transferal and reburial. This lasted one week in preparation for her beatification.\n\nThe beatification process for Ricart opened in the Valencia archdiocese under Marcelino Olaechea i Loizaga who inaugurated a diocesan investigation on 24 January 1958 before closing it just a few months later on 21 June. The cause remained dormant for sometime until 17 July 1987 when the Congregation for the Causes of Saints validated this investigation in Rome. The C.C.S. later received the Positio dossier for evaluation a decade later in 1996.\n\nTheologians approved the cause on 2 December 1998 as did the cardinal and bishop members of the C.C.S. on 13 April 1999 before Pope John Paul II issued final approval on 28 June 1999 in a move that confirmed Ricart would be beatified. The beatification was celebrated on 11 March 2001 in Saint Peter's Square in which Ricart was beatified alongside 232 others; she is often identified as a member of that large group despite her cause having been initiated and conducted separate to the group.\n\nThe current postulator for this cause is the Servite priest Franco M. Azzalli.\n\n"}
{"id": "14893236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14893236", "title": "Mazimbu Graves", "text": "Mazimbu Graves\n\nMazimbu Graves in Morogoro Region, Tanzania is a cemetery for deceased South African anti-apartheid activists who died in exile.\n"}
{"id": "333154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=333154", "title": "Murder of Balbir Singh Sodhi", "text": "Murder of Balbir Singh Sodhi\n\nBalbir Singh Sodhi (1949 – September 15, 2001), a Sikh-American gas station owner in Mesa, Arizona, was murdered in a hate crime in the aftermath of the September 11 attacks. This was the first of several cases across the United States that were reported to the police as supposed acts of retaliation for the attacks. Balbir Singh Sodhi, who wore a beard and a turban in accordance with his Sikh faith, was mistaken for an Arab Muslim and murdered by 42-year-old Frank Silva Roque, a Boeing aircraft mechanic at a local repair facility who held a criminal record for an attempted robbery in California. Roque had reportedly told friends that he was \"going to go out and shoot some towel-heads\" the day of the attacks. Roque was sentenced to death (commuted later to life imprisonment) for first degree murder.\n\nBorn in Punjab, India, Balbir Singh Sodhi was a member of the Sikh religion. He immigrated to the United States in 1989 and initially resided in Los Angeles, where he worked as a computer engineer and analyst at HP. He saved enough money to buy a gas station and several affiliated franchises in Phoenix, Arizona and moved there.\n\nOn September 11, 2001, members of al-Qaeda, a militant Islamist group, hijacked four airplanes and perpetrated the 9/11 attacks, killing 2,977 victims. According to family members, Sodhi had become distraught by the attacks.\n\nOn September 15, 2001, Roque took his Chevrolet S-10 from the Wild Hare sports bar in Mesa, where he had reportedly been ranting about immigrants, and drove to the Chevron gas station owned by Sodhi. Roque shot Sodhi five times from his truck with a .380 handgun, killing him. At the time of the shooting, Sodhi was helping landscaper Luis Ledesma plant flowers around the edge of his gas station.\n\nRoque, who apparently wanted revenge for the 9/11 attacks, mistook him for an Arab Muslim because of the clothes he wore, his turban, and his beard. Roque then drove to a Mobil gas station 10 miles away. Twenty minutes after the first shooting, he shot at a Lebanese-American clerk from his truck, but missed. Roque then drove to his former residence, which had been purchased by a local Afghan family, and fired multiple rounds at the outside of the house. After fleeing the scene of the final shooting, Roque was reported to have gone to a local bar and boasted, \"They're investigating the murder of a turban-head down the street.\"\n\nPolice arrested Roque the next day, initially unaware of the later shooting incidents. He reportedly shouted slogans including \"I am a patriot!\" and \"I stand for America all the way!\" during his arrest. His bail was set at $1 million.\n\nRoque's trial by jury began on August 18, 2003. Defense attorneys argued he was not guilty due to insanity, claiming that he had a diminished IQ and heard relentless voices telling him that Arabs were Satanic and must be killed. Two coworkers testified that Roque was \"narrow-minded\" and that he hated both immigrants and Arabs. Roque's defense attorney characterized him as mentally ill, and noted that his mother had twice been hospitalized for schizophrenia, a condition which has been shown to appear in those genetically predisposed to it. On September 30, 2003, he was found guilty of first degree murder, and was sentenced to death nine days later.\n\nOn July 19, 2005, Roque was found guilty of an unspecified conspiracy charge while in prison, specified only as a violent crime. On February 27, 2006, he was found guilty of having manufactured a primitive weapon in prison three days earlier. In August 2006, the Arizona Supreme Court changed Roque's death sentence to a sentence of life in prison without parole, citing his low IQ and mental illness as mitigating factors. The trial was aired by Court TV in a five-part series.\n\nOn August 4, 2002, less than a year after Sodhi's death, his younger brother Sukhpal was shot to death while driving his taxicab in San Francisco, apparently killed by a stray bullet from a nearby gang fight. In response to this second tragedy, Balbir's son Sukhwinder said, \"What are you going to do with anger? We like peace and we are a peaceful people.\"\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "990404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=990404", "title": "National Intelligence Council", "text": "National Intelligence Council\n\nThe National Intelligence Council (NIC) is the center for midterm and long-term strategic thinking within the United States Intelligence Community (IC). It was formed in 1979. According to its official website:\n\n\nThe NIC's goal is to provide policymakers with the best information: unvarnished, unbiased and without regard to whether the analytic judgments conform to current U.S. policy.\n\nOne of the NICs most important analytical projects is a Global Trends report produced for the incoming US president. The report is delivered to the incoming president between Election Day and Inauguration Day, and it assesses critical drivers and scenarios for global trends with an approximate time horizon of fifteen years. The Global Trends analysis provides a basis for long-range strategic policy assessment for the White House and the intelligence community. The NIC's most recent Global Trends report, \"Global Trends 2035: Paradox of Progress\" was released in January 2017.\n\nOn February 2, 2007, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, and the National Intelligence Council released the National Intelligence Estimate (NIE)—'Prospects for Iraq's Stability: A Challenging Road Ahead' Unclassified Key Judgments\".\n\nThe NIC has a Chairman and Vice Chairman, as well as a Vice Chairman for Evaluation, a Director of Strategic Plans and Outreach, a Director of Analysis and Production Staff, a Special Adviser, and National Intelligence Officers (NIOs) and Deputy National Intelligence Officer for each of the following areas and subject matters:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2026892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2026892", "title": "Pavel Filonov", "text": "Pavel Filonov\n\nPavel Nikolayevich Filonov (; January 8, 1883 – December 3, 1941) was a Russian avant-garde painter, art theorist, and poet.\n\nFilonov was born in Moscow on January 8, 1883 (Gregorian calendar) or December 27, 1882 (Julian calendar). In 1897, he moved to St. Petersburg where he took art lessons. In 1908, he entered St. Petersburg Academy of Arts, from which, he was expelled in 1910.\n\nIn 1910–1914, he took part in the arts group Soyuz Molodyozhi created by artists Elena Guro and Mikhail Matyushin. In 1912, he wrote the article \"The Canon and the Law\", in which, he formulated the principles of analytical realism, or \"anti-Cubism\". According to Filonov, Cubism represents objects using elements of their surface geometry but \"analytical realists\" should represent objects using elements of their inner soul. He was faithful to these principles for the remainder of his life.\nDuring the years 1913 to 1915, Filonov was close to Vladimir Mayakovsky, Velimir Khlebnikov, and other futurists. He co-illustrated Khlebnikov's \"Selected Poems with Postscript, 1907–1914\" alongside Kazimir Malevich during this time. In the autumn of 1916, he enlisted for service in World War I, and served on the Romanian front. Filonov participated actively in the Russian Revolution of 1917 and served as the Chairman of the Revolutionary War Committee of Dunay region.\n\nIn 1919, he exhibited in the First Free Exhibit of Artists of All Trends at the Hermitage. In 1923, he became a professor of St. Petersburg Academy of Arts and a member of the Institute for Artistic Culture (INKhUK). He organized a large arts school of Masters of Analytical Realism (over seventy artists). Their work influenced suprematism and expressionism.\n\nIn 1929, a large retrospective exhibition of Filonov art was planned at the Russian Museum; however, the Soviet government forbade the exhibition from going forward. From 1932 onward, Filonov literally starved but still refused to sell his works to private collectors. He wanted to give all his works to the Russian Museum as a gift so as to start a Museum of Analytical Realism. He died of starvation on December 3, 1941 during the Nazi Siege of Leningrad.\n\nUnder the umbrella of Universal Flowering, Filonov put forth a manner of working that proceeded from the particular to the general. He believed that objects and fields should be built up from small details and bits and stated that doing it the other-way-round was nothing short of \"charlatanism\". To this end, he worked, and required his students to work, with very small brushes in painting and the finest of points when drawing.\n\nMost of Filonov's works were saved by his sister Yevdokiya Nikolayevna Glebova. She stored the paintings in the Russian Museum's archives and eventually donated them as a gift. Exhibitions of Filonov's work were forbidden. In 1967, an exhibition of Filonov's works in Novosibirsk was permitted. In 1988, his work was allowed in the Russian Museum. In 1989 and 1990, the first international exhibition of Filonov's work was held in Paris.\n\nDuring the period of half-legal status of Filonov's works it was seemingly easy to steal them; however, there was a legend that Filonov's ghost protected his art and anybody trying to steal his paintings or to smuggle them abroad would soon die, become paralyzed, or have a similar misfortune.\n\n"}
{"id": "5721661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5721661", "title": "Peter Nygård", "text": "Peter Nygård\n\nPeter J. Nygård (born 1943) is a Finnish-Canadian fashion executive, founder and chairman of Nygård International, a company based in Winnipeg that makes women's wear. He was rated the 70th richest Canadian by \"Canadian Business Magazine\" in 2009 with a net worth of $817 million , but he is not shown on the Canadian Business ranking of the 100 wealthiest individuals and families in Canada 2018 list \n\nNygård was born in Helsinki, Finland in 1943. His parents were Eeli and Hilkka Nygård, bakers who immigrated to Canada in 1952, settling at first in Deloraine, Manitoba (where Nygård Park would later be named in his honour in 2002). They moved shortly after to Winnipeg.\n\nIn 1964, he graduated from the University of North Dakota with a business degree.\n\nOn December 1, 1967, Nygård started working as sales manager for a new jeans line of a woman’s clothing manufacturer Jacob Fashions . A few weeks later Nygård used his life savings of $8,000 and an additional loan to purchase 20% of the company from the founder Nathan Jacob. A few years later, Nygård bought the rest of the company from Jacobs daughters and renamed it Tan Jay.\n\nNygård apparel manufacturing company was founded in 1967 in Winnipeg, Manitoba. Its Canada headquarters is now in Toronto, Ontario with its world headquarters in Times Square, New York.\n\nNygård's fashion concept retail store opened in Times Square in Manhattan on Friday, November 6, 2009.\n\nIn 1987, Nygård built a compound at Lyford Cay in the Bahamas. It was partly destroyed by a fire on November 10, 2009. The Cay is inspired by the Mayan civilization’s architecture. One of the major buildings is a 32,000 ftgrand-hall with a 100,000 lb glass ceiling.\n\nOn April 14, 2010 Peter Nygard announced he was planning a $50 million renovation of Nygård Cay, which would take two years to complete and repair the damage and employ 200 construction workers. But a letter from the Bahamian prime minister's office rejected his construction application, citing the improper expansion of his property through intentional accretion of land over the seabed.\n\nOn September 28, 2018 Nygård Cay was seized by the Supreme Court of the Bahamas as part of a legal battle surrounding Nygard’s efforts to dredge the sea floor around the estate \n\nNygård has supported the Canadian Breast Cancer Foundation.\n\nNygård has been a longtime sponsor of amateur sports in the Bahamas. In June 2010, is the main sponsor of Amateur Boxing Federation of the Bahamas' team for Continental Elite Boxing Championships Invitation only event slated for June 13–19 in Quito, Ecuador. Wellington Miller, the president of the Bahamas Olympic Committee, said Nygård has contributed significantly to the Amateur Boxing Association of the Bahamas and their Olympic success.\n\nIn April 2011, Nygård held the \"2011 National Family Island Regatta\" at Nygård Cay, which included a press conference to honor Bahamian musician \"King\" Eric Gibson. In the same month, Nygård also donated $10,000 to Josie Poitier, a member of Old Holy Redeemer Catholic Church, during a Passover/Good Friday Breakfast/Brunch.\n\nNygård has been accused of abusive labor practices, tax evasion, sexual harassment and rape.\n\nIn 2007 with a bit of irritation over runoff has escalated to a battle royal encompassing no fewer than 16 legal actions between Nygård and Luis Bacon and their associates, in which both sides are claiming damages in the tens of millions of dollars and lobbing allegations of activities that include vandalism, bribery, insider trading, arson, murder, destruction of the fragile seabed, and having a close association with the Ku Klux Klan. Bacon v. Nygard, 150400/2015, New York State Supreme Court, New York County\n\nIn 2012, Nygård launched a lawsuit against the CBC regarding copyright issues about private videos taken at his residence, which were then used in an April 2010 documentary. He had also launched a copyright complaint with the US District Court in New York and a lawsuit in Manitoba to prevent the piece from airing. He had previously sued two former employees for releasing confidential information and his lawyer claimed CBC harassed many of the employees. Nygård launched a civil suit against his neighbor and the Lyford Cay Property Owners Association alleging they conspired with the CBC to damage his reputation; he also filed a private criminal prosecution against three CBC journalists accusing them of conspiring to discredit him and his clothing empire.\n\nNygård currently lives in Nassau, Bahamas.\n\nHe has seven children by four women. He has been married one time, briefly, in the 1970s, to a model. \n\nHe dated Anna Nicole Smith for several years.\n\nHe fathered a daughters Alia and Bianca and son Kai, with Patricia Bickle.\n\nHe fathered a son, Mika, with Kaarina Pakka of Oakville, Ontario.\n\nNygård owns the following Boeing 727-17 (VP-BPZ) aircraft for personal and corporate use:\n"}
{"id": "230027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230027", "title": "Quality time", "text": "Quality time\n\nQuality time (QT) is an informal reference to time spent with close family, partners or friends that is in some way important, special, productive or profitable. It is time that is set aside for paying full and undivided attention to the person or matter at hand. It may also refer to time spent performing some favorite activity.\n\n\"Quality time\" (\"noun phrase\") is a relatively new expression, in use since the 1970s. One of the earliest records of this phrase in print was in the Annapolis, Maryland (United States) newspaper \"The Capital\", January 1973, in the article \"How To Be Liberated\":\nRelationship counselor Gary Chapman suggests that quality time is one of five \"languages\" which are used (more or less, preferentially, by a given individual) to express love.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52063456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52063456", "title": "Reactions to the death of Bhumibol Adulyadej", "text": "Reactions to the death of Bhumibol Adulyadej\n\nKing Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand died on 13 October 2016 after a long illness. Following his death, many sovereign countries and organisations sent a message of condolences.\n\nPrime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha made a speech following the king death in a national mourning announcement:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe current longest reigning monarch and head of state, Queen Elizabeth II sent a private message of condolence to Queen Sirikit and upcoming heir Vajiralongkorn.\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama of Tibet expressed sadness on learning of the passing away of the King and offered condolences to the members of the royal family and Thai people.\n\n"}
{"id": "37862937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37862937", "title": "Rectifier (neural networks)", "text": "Rectifier (neural networks)\n\nIn the context of artificial neural networks, the rectifier is an activation function defined as the positive part of its argument:\n\nformula_1,\n\nwhere \"x\" is the input to a neuron. This is also known as a ramp function and is analogous to half-wave rectification in electrical engineering. \nThis activation function was first introduced to a dynamical network by Hahnloser et al. in 2000 with strong biological motivations and mathematical justifications. It has been demonstrated for the first time in 2011 to enable better training of deeper networks, compared to the widely-used activation functions prior to 2011, e.g., the logistic sigmoid (which is inspired by probability theory; see logistic regression) and its more practical counterpart, the hyperbolic tangent. The rectifier is, , the most popular activation function for deep neural networks.\n\nA unit employing the rectifier is also called a rectified linear unit (ReLU).\n\nRectified linear units find applications in computer vision and speech recognition using deep neural nets.\n\nA smooth approximation to the rectifier is the analytic function\nwhich is called the softplus function. The derivative of softplus is formula_3, the logistic function. The logistic function is a smooth approximation of the derivative of the rectifier, the Heaviside step function.\n\nThe multivariable generalization of single-variable softplus is the LogSumExp with the first argument set to zero:\nThe LogSumExp function itself is:\nand its gradient is the softmax; the softmax with the first argument set to zero is the multivariable generalization of the logistic function. Both LogSumExp and softmax are used in machine learning.\n\nRectified linear units can be extended to include Gaussian noise, making them noisy ReLUs, giving\n\nNoisy ReLUs have been used with some success in restricted Boltzmann machines for computer vision tasks.\n\nLeaky ReLUs allow a small, positive gradient when the unit is not active.\n\nParametric ReLUs (PReLUs) take this idea further by making the coefficient of leakage into a parameter that is learned along with the other neural network parameters.\n\nNote that for formula_10, this is equivalent to\nand thus has a relation to \"maxout\" networks.\n\nExponential linear units try to make the mean activations closer to zero which speeds up learning. It has been shown that ELUs can obtain higher classification accuracy than ReLUs.\n\nformula_12\n\nformula_13 is a hyper-parameter to be tuned and formula_14 is a constraint.\n\n\nRectifying activation functions were used to separate specific excitation and unspecific inhibition in the Neural Abstraction Pyramid, which was trained in a supervised way to learn several computer vision tasks. In 2011, the use of the rectifier as a non-linearity has been shown to enable training deep supervised neural networks without requiring unsupervised pre-training. Rectified linear units, compared to sigmoid function or similar activation functions, allow for faster and effective training of deep neural architectures on large and complex datasets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15131209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15131209", "title": "Rhex", "text": "Rhex\n\nRHex is a autonomous robot design, based on hexapod with compliant legs and one actuator per leg. A number of US universities have participated, with funding grants also coming from DARPA.\n\nVersions have shown good mobility over a wide range of terrain types at speeds exceeding five body lengths per second (2.7 m/s), climbed slopes exceeding 45 degrees, swims, and climbs stairs.\n\nThe RHex design comes from a multidisciplinary and multi-university DARPA funded effort that applies mathematical techniques from dynamical systems theory to problems of animal locomotion, and, in turn, seeks inspiration from biology in advancing the state of the art of robotic systems.\nThe RHex project received $5 million over 5 years from the DARPA CBS/CBBS program in 1998, and an approximate additional $3 million from other grants, such as National Science Foundation grants.\nThe following Universities participated on the initial RHex project:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "326702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=326702", "title": "Scenario analysis", "text": "Scenario analysis\n\nScenario analysis is a process of analyzing possible future events by considering alternative possible outcomes (sometimes called \"alternative worlds\"). Thus, scenario analysis, which is one of the main forms of projection, does not try to show one exact picture of the future. Instead, it presents several alternative future developments. Consequently, a scope of possible future outcomes is observable. Not only are the outcomes observable, also the development paths leading to the outcomes. In contrast to prognoses, the scenario analysis is not based on extrapolation of the past or the extension of past trends. It does not rely on historical data and does not expect past observations to remain valid in the future. Instead, it tries to consider possible developments and turning points, which may only be connected to the past. In short, several scenarios are fleshed out in a scenario analysis to show possible future outcomes. Each scenario normally combines optimistic, pessimistic, and more and less probable developments. However, all aspects of scenarios should be plausible. Although highly discussed, experience has shown that around three scenarios are most appropriate for further discussion and selection. More scenarios risks making the analysis overly complicated.\n\nScenario-building is designed to allow improved decision-making by allowing deep consideration of outcomes and their implications.\n\nScenario analysis can also be used to illuminate \"wild cards.\" For example, analysis of the possibility of the earth being struck by a meteor suggests that whilst the probability is low, the damage inflicted is so high that the event is much more important (threatening) than the low probability (in any one year) alone would suggest. However, this possibility is usually disregarded by organizations using scenario analysis to develop a strategic plan since it has such overarching repercussions.\n\nIn economics and finance, a financial institution might use scenario analysis to forecast several possible scenarios for the economy (e.g. rapid growth, moderate growth, slow growth) and for financial market returns (for bonds, stocks and cash) in each of those scenarios. It might consider sub-sets of each of the possibilities. It might further seek to determine correlations and assign probabilities to the scenarios (and sub-sets if any). Then it will be in a position to consider how to distribute assets between asset types (i.e. asset allocation); the institution can also calculate the scenario-weighted expected return (which figure will indicate the overall attractiveness of the financial environment). It may also perform stress testing, using adverse scenarios.\n\nDepending on the complexity of the problem, scenario analysis can be a demanding exercise. It can be difficult to foresee what the future holds (e.g. the actual future outcome may be entirely unexpected), i.e. to foresee what the scenarios are, and to assign probabilities to them; and this is true of the general forecasts never mind the implied financial market returns. The outcomes can be modeled mathematically/statistically e.g. taking account of possible variability within single scenarios as well as possible relationships between scenarios. In general, one should take care when assigning probabilities to different scenarios as this could invite a tendency to consider only the scenario with the highest probability.\n\nIn politics or geopolitics, scenario analysis involves reflecting on the possible alternative paths of a social or political environment and possibly diplomatic and war risks.\n\nWhile there is utility in weighting hypotheses and branching potential outcomes from them, reliance on scenario analysis without reporting some parameters of measurement accuracy (standard errors, confidence intervals of estimates, metadata, standardization and coding, weighting for non-response, error in reportage, sample design, case counts, etc.) is a poor second to traditional prediction. Especially in “complex” problems, factors and assumptions do not correlate in lockstep fashion. Once a specific sensitivity is undefined, it may call the entire study into question.\n\nIt is faulty logic to think, when arbitrating results, that a better hypothesis will render empiricism unnecessary. In this respect, scenario analysis tries to defer statistical laws (e.g., Chebyshev's inequality Law), because the decision rules occur outside a constrained setting. Outcomes are not permitted to “just happen”; rather, they are forced to conform to arbitrary hypotheses ex post, and therefore there is no footing on which to place expected values. In truth, there are no ex ante expected values, only hypotheses, and one is left wondering about the roles of modeling and data decision. In short, comparisons of \"scenarios\" with outcomes are biased by not deferring to the data; this may be convenient, but it is indefensible.\n\n“Scenario analysis” is no substitute for complete and factual exposure of survey error in economic studies. In traditional prediction, given the data used to model the problem, with a reasoned specification and technique, an analyst can state, within a certain percentage of statistical error, the likelihood of a coefficient being within a certain numerical bound. This exactitude need not come at the expense of very disaggregated statements of hypotheses. R Software, specifically the module “WhatIf,” (in the context, see also Matchit and Zelig) has been developed for causal inference, and to evaluate counterfactuals. These programs have fairly sophisticated treatments for determining model dependence, in order to state with precision how sensitive the results are to models not based on empirical evidence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28297", "title": "Soul", "text": "Soul\n\nThe soul, in many religious, philosophical, and mythological traditions, is the incorporeal essence of a living being. Soul or psyche (Ancient Greek: ψυχή \"psūkhḗ\", of ψύχειν \"psū́khein\", \"to breathe\") are the mental abilities of a living being: reason, character, feeling, consciousness, memory, perception, thinking, etc. Depending on the philosophical system, a soul can either be mortal or immortal. In Judeo-Christianity, only human beings have immortal souls (although immortality is disputed within Judaism and may have been influenced by Plato). For example, the Catholic theologian Thomas Aquinas attributed \"soul\" (\"anima\") to all organisms but argued that only human souls are immortal.\n\nOther religions (most notably Hinduism and Jainism) hold that all living things from the smallest bacterium to the largest of mammals are the souls themselves (Atman, jiva) and have their physical representative (the body) in the world. Jain philosophy is the oldest world philosophy that separates body (matter) from the soul (consciousness) completely. The actual self is the soul, while the body is only a mechanism to experience the karma of that life i.e if we see a tiger then there is a self conscious identity residing in it (the soul), and a physical representative (the whole body of tiger which is observable) in the world. Some teach that even non-biological entities (such as rivers and mountains) possess souls. This belief is called animism. Greek philosophers, such as Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle, understood that the soul (ψυχή \"psūchê\") must have a logical faculty, the exercise of which was the most divine of human actions. At his defense trial, Socrates even summarized his teaching as nothing other than an exhortation for his fellow Athenians to excel in matters of the psyche since all bodily goods are dependent on such excellence (\"Apology\" 30a–b).\n\nThe current consensus of modern science is that there is no evidence to support the existence of the soul when traditionally defined as the spiritual breath of the body. In metaphysics, the concept of \"Soul\" may be equated with that of \"Mind\" in order to refer to the consciousness and intellect of the individual.\n\nThe Modern English word \"soul\", derived from Old English \"sáwol, sáwel\", was first attested in the 8th century poem \"Beowulf\" v. 2820 and in the Vespasian Psalter 77.50 . It is cognate with other German and Baltic terms for the same idea, including Gothic \"saiwala\", Old High German \"sêula, sêla\", Old Saxon \"sêola\", Old Low Franconian \"sêla, sîla\", Old Norse \"sála\" and Lithuanian \"siela\". Deeper etymology of the Germanic word is unclear.\n\nThe original concept behind the Germanic root is thought to mean “\"coming from or belonging to the sea\" (or \"lake\")”, because of the Germanic and pre-Celtic belief in souls emerging from and returning to sacred lakes, Old Saxon \"sêola\" (soul) compared to Old Saxon \"sêo\" (sea).\n\nThe Koine Greek Septuagint uses (\"psyche\") to translate Hebrew (\"nephesh\"), meaning \"life, vital breath\", and specifically refers to a mortal, physical life, but in English it is variously translated as \"soul, self, life, creature, person, appetite, mind, living being, desire, emotion, passion\"; an example can be found in :\n\nThe Koine Greek word (\"psychē\"), \"life, spirit, consciousness\", is derived from a verb meaning \"to cool, to blow\", and hence refers to the breath, as opposed to (\"soma\"), meaning \"body\". \"Psychē\" occurs juxtaposed to , as seen in :\n\nPaul the Apostle used ψυχή (\"psychē\") and (\"pneuma\") specifically to distinguish between the Jewish notions of (\"nephesh\") and \"ruah\" (spirit) (also in the Septuagint, e.g. = = \"\" = \"the Spirit of God\").\n\nIn the ancient Egyptian religion, an individual was believed to be made up of various elements, some physical and some spiritual. Similar ideas are found in ancient Assyrian and Babylonian religion. Kuttamuwa, an 8th-century BC royal official from Sam'al, ordered an inscribed stele erected upon his death. The inscription requested that his mourners commemorate his life and his afterlife with feasts \"for my soul that is in this stele\". It is one of the earliest references to a soul as a separate entity from the body. The basalt stele is tall and wide. It was uncovered in the third season of excavations by the Neubauer Expedition of the Oriental Institute in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith affirms that \"the soul is a sign of God, a heavenly gem whose reality the most learned of men hath failed to grasp, and whose mystery no mind, however acute, can ever hope to unravel\". Bahá'u'lláh stated that the soul not only continues to live after the physical death of the human body, but is, in fact, immortal. Heaven can be seen partly as the soul's state of nearness to God; and hell as a state of remoteness from God. Each state follows as a natural consequence of individual efforts, or the lack thereof, to develop spiritually. Bahá'u'lláh taught that individuals have no existence prior to their life here on earth and the soul's evolution is always towards God and away from the material world.\n\nBuddhism teaches that all things are in a constant state of flux: all is changing, and no permanent state exists by itself. This applies to human beings as much as to anything else in the cosmos. Thus, a human being has no permanent self. According to this doctrine of \"anatta\" (Pāli; Sanskrit: \"anātman\") – \"no-self\" or \"no soul\" – the words \"I\" or \"me\" do not refer to any fixed thing. They are simply convenient terms that allow us to refer to an ever-changing entity.\n\nThe \"anatta\" doctrine is not a kind of materialism. Buddhism does not deny the existence of \"immaterial\" entities, and it (at least traditionally) distinguishes bodily states from mental states. Thus, the conventional translation of \"anatta\" as \"no-soul\" can be confusing. If the word \"soul\" simply refers to an incorporeal component in living things that can continue after death, then Buddhism does not deny the existence of the soul. Instead, Buddhism denies the existence of a permanent entity that remains constant behind the changing corporeal and incorporeal components of a living being. Just as the body changes from moment to moment, so thoughts come and go, and there is no permanent state underlying the mind that experiences these thoughts, as in Cartesianism. Conscious mental states simply arise and perish with no \"thinker\" behind them. When the body dies, Buddhists believe the incorporeal mental processes continue and are reborn in a new body. Because the mental processes are constantly changing, the being that is reborn is neither entirely different from, nor exactly the same as, the being that died. However, the new being is \"continuous\" with the being that died – in the same way that the \"you\" of this moment is continuous with the \"you\" of a moment before, despite the fact that you are constantly changing.\n\nBuddhist teaching holds that a notion of a permanent, abiding self is a delusion that is one of the causes of human conflict on the emotional, social, and political levels. They add that an understanding of \"anatta\" provides an accurate description of the human condition, and that this understanding allows us to pacify our mundane desires.\n\nVarious schools of Buddhism have differing ideas about what continues after death. The Yogacara school in Mahayana Buddhism said there are Store consciousness which continue to exist after death. In some schools, particularly Tibetan Buddhism, the view is that there are three minds: \"very subtle mind\", which does not disintegrate in death; \"subtle mind\", which disintegrates in death and which is \"dreaming mind\" or \"unconscious mind\"; and \"gross mind\", which does not exist when one is \"sleeping\". Therefore, \"gross mind\" is less permanent than subtle mind, which does not exist in death. \"Very subtle mind\", however, does continue, and when it \"catches on\", or coincides with phenomena, again, a new \"subtle mind\" emerges, with its own personality/assumptions/habits, and \"that\" entity experiences karma in the current continuum.\n\nPlants were said to be non-sentient (無情), but Buddhist monks are required to not cut or burn trees, because some sentient beings rely on them. Some Mahayana monks said non-sentient beings such as plants and stones have Buddha-nature.\n\nCertain modern Buddhists, particularly in Western countries, reject—or at least take an agnostic stance toward—the concept of rebirth or reincarnation. Stephen Batchelor discusses this in his book \"Buddhism Without Beliefs\". Others point to research that has been conducted at the University of Virginia as proof that some people are reborn.\n\nMost Christians understand the soul as an ontological reality distinct from, yet integrally connected with, the body. Its characteristics are described in moral, spiritual, and philosophical terms. Richard Swinburne, a Christian philosopher of religion at Oxford University, wrote that \"it is a frequent criticism of substance dualism that dualists cannot say what souls are. Souls are immaterial subjects of mental properties. They have sensations and thoughts, desires and beliefs, and perform intentional actions. Souls are essential parts of human beings\". According to a common Christian eschatology, when people die, their souls will be judged by God and determined to go to Heaven or to Hell. Though all branches of Christianity – Catholics, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Church of the East, Evangelical, and mainline Protestants – teach that Jesus Christ plays a decisive role in the Christian salvation process, the specifics of that role and the part played by individual persons or ecclesiastical rituals and relationships, is a matter of wide diversity in official church teaching, theological speculation and popular practice. Some Christians believe that if one has not repented of one's sins and has not trusted in Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior, he/she will go to Hell and suffer eternal damnation or eternal separation from God. Some hold a belief that babies (including the unborn) and those with cognitive or mental impairments who have died will be received into Heaven on the basis of God's grace through the sacrifice of Jesus.\n\nOther Christians understand the soul as the life, and believe that the dead are sleeping (Christian conditionalism). This belief is traditionally accompanied by the belief that the unrighteous soul will cease to exist instead of suffering eternally (annihilationism). Believers will inherit eternal life either in Heaven, or in a Kingdom of God on earth, and enjoy eternal fellowship with God.\n\nThere are also beliefs in universal salvation.\nAugustine, one of western Christianity's most influential early Christian thinkers, described the soul as \"a special substance, endowed with reason, adapted to rule the body\". Some Christians espouse a trichotomic view of humans, which characterizes humans as consisting of a body (\"soma\"), soul (\"psyche\"), and spirit (\"pneuma\"). However, the majority of modern Bible scholars point out how spirit and soul are used interchangeably in many biblical passages, and so hold to dichotomy: the view that each of us is body and soul. Paul said that the \"body wars against\" the soul, \"For the word of God is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit\" (Heb 4:12 NASB), and that \"I buffet my body\", to keep it under control.\nTrichotomy was changed to dichotomy as tenet of Christian faith at the Council of Constantinople in 869 regarded as the 8th Ecumenical Council by Roman Catholics.\n\nThe 'origin of the soul' has provided a vexing question in Christianity. The major theories put forward include soul creationism, traducianism, and pre-existence. According to creationism, each individual soul is created directly by God, either at the moment of conception or some later time. According to traducianism, the soul comes from the parents by natural generation. According to the preexistence theory, the soul exists before the moment of conception. There have been differing thoughts regarding whether human embryos have souls from conception, or there is a point between conception and birth where the fetus acquires a soul, consciousness, and/or personhood. Stances in this question might more or less influence judgements on the morality of abortion.\n\nThe present Catechism of the Catholic Church defines the soul as \"the innermost aspect of humans, that which is of greatest value in them, that by which they are in God's image described as 'soul' signifies the \"spiritual principle\" in man\". All souls living and dead will be judged by Jesus Christ when he comes back to earth. The Catholic Church teaches that the existence of each individual soul is dependent wholly upon God: \"The doctrine of the faith affirms that the spiritual and immortal soul is created immediately by God.\"\n\nProtestants generally believe in the soul's existence, but fall into two major camps about what this means in terms of an afterlife. Some, following Calvin, believe in the immortality of the soul and conscious existence after death, while others, following Luther, believe in the mortality of the soul and unconscious \"sleep\" until the resurrection of the dead. Various new religious movements derived from Adventism—including Christadelphians, Seventh-day Adventists and Jehovah's Witnesses—similarly believe that the dead do not possess a soul separate from the body and are unconscious until the resurrection.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints teaches that the spirit and body together constitute the Soul of Man (Mankind). \"The spirit and the body are the soul of man.\" Latter-day Saints believe that the soul is the union of a pre-existing, God-made spirit and a temporal body, which is formed by physical conception on earth. After death, the spirit continues to live and progress in the Spirit world until the resurrection, when it is reunited with the body that once housed it. This reuniting of body and spirit results in a perfect soul that is immortal and eternal and capable of receiving a fulness of joy. Latter-day Saint cosmology also describes \"intelligences\" as the essence of consciousness or agency. These are co-eternal with God, and animate the spirits. The union of a newly created spirit body with an eternally-existing intelligence constitutes a \"spirit birth\" and justifies God's title \"Father of our spirits\".\n\n\"Ātman\" is a Sanskrit word that means inner self or soul. In Hindu philosophy, especially in the Vedanta school of Hinduism, Ātman is the first principle, the \"true\" self of an individual beyond identification with phenomena, the essence of an individual. In order to attain liberation (moksha), a human being must acquire self-knowledge (atma jnana), which is to realize that one's true self (Ātman) is identical with the transcendent self Brahman.\n\nThe six orthodox schools of Hinduism believe that there is Ātman (self, essence) in every being, a major point of difference with Buddhism, which does not believe that there is either soul or self.\n\nIn Hinduism and Jainism, a \"jiva\" (, , alternative spelling \"jiwa\"; , , alternative spelling \"jeev\") is a living being, or any entity imbued with a life force.\n\nIn Jainism, \"jiva\" is the immortal essence or soul of a living organism (human, animal, fish or plant etc.) which survives physical death. The concept of \"Ajiva\" in Jainism means \"not soul\", and represents matter (including body), time, space, non-motion and motion. In Jainism, a \"Jiva\" is either \"samsari\" (mundane, caught in cycle of rebirths) or \"mukta\" (liberated).\n\nThe concept of \"jiva\" in Jainism is similar to \"atman\" in Hinduism. However, some Hindu traditions differentiate between the two concepts, with \"jiva\" considered as individual self, while atman as that which is universal unchanging self that is present in all living beings and everything else as the metaphysical Brahman. The latter is sometimes referred to as \"jiva-atman\" (a soul in a living body).\nAccording to Brahma Kumaris, the soul is an eternal point of light.\n\nThe Quran, the holy book of Islam, distinguishes between the immortal \"rūḥ\" (spirit or \"soul\") and the mortal \"nafs\" (psyche). The immortal rūḥ \"drives\" the mortal nafs, which comprises temporal desires and perceptions necessary for living.\n\nOne of the passages in the Quran that mention \"rûh\" occur in chapters 17 (\"The Night Journey\") and 39 (\"The Throngs\"):\nIn Jainism, every living being, from plant or bacterium to human, has a soul and the concept forms the very basis of Jainism. According to Jainism, there is no beginning or end to the existence of soul. It is eternal in nature and changes its form until it attains liberation.\n\nThe soul \"(Jīva)\" is basically categorized in one of two ways based on its present state.\n\nUntil the time the soul is liberated from the \"saṃsāra\" (cycle of repeated birth and death), it gets attached to one of these bodies based on the karma (actions) of the individual soul. Irrespective of which state the soul is in, it has got the same attributes and qualities. The difference between the liberated and non-liberated souls is that the qualities and attributes are manifested completely in case of \"siddha\" (liberated soul) as they have overcome all the karmic bondages whereas in case of non-liberated souls they are partially exhibited.\n\nConcerning the Jain view of the soul, Virchand Gandhi said\n\nThe Hebrew terms \"nefesh\" (literally \"living being\"), \"ruach\" (literally \"wind\"), \"neshamah\" (literally \"breath\"), \"chayah\" (literally \"life\") and \"yechidah\" (literally \"singularity\") are used to describe the soul or spirit.\n\nIn Judaism the soul was believed to be given by God to Adam as mentioned in Genesis, \n\nJudaism relates the quality of one's soul to one's performance of the commandments (\"mitzvot)\" and reaching higher levels of understanding, and thus closeness to God. A person with such closeness is called a \"tzadik\". Therefore, Judaism embraces the commemoration of the day of one's death, \"nahala\"/\"Yahrtzeit\" and not the birthday as a festivity of remembrance, for only toward the end of life's struggles, tests and challenges could human souls be judged and credited for righteousness. Judaism places great importance on the study of the souls.\n\nKabbalah and other mystic traditions go into greater detail into the nature of the soul. Kabbalah separates the soul into five elements, corresponding to the five worlds:\n\n\nKabbalah also proposed a concept of reincarnation, the \"gilgul\". (See also \"nefesh habehamit\" the \"animal soul\".)\n\nThe Scientology view is that a person does not have a soul, it is a soul. A person is immortal, and may be reincarnated if they wish. The Scientology term for the soul is \"thetan\", derived from the Greek word \"theta\", symbolizing thought. Scientology counselling (called auditing) addresses the soul to improve abilities, both worldly and spiritual.\n\nAccording to Nadya Yuguseva, a shaman from the Altai, \"A woman has 40 souls; men have just one\".\n\nSikhism considers soul (\"atma\") to be part of God (Waheguru). Various hymns are cited from the holy book Guru Granth Sahib (SGGS) that suggests this belief. \"God is in the Soul and the Soul is in the God.\" The same concept is repeated at various pages of the SGGS. For example: \"The soul is divine; divine is the soul. Worship Him with love.\" and \"The soul is the Lord, and the Lord is the soul; contemplating the Shabad, the Lord is found.\"\n\nThe \"atma\" or soul according to Sikhism is an entity or \"spiritual spark\" or \"light\" in our body because of which the body can sustain life. On the departure of this entity from the body, the body becomes lifeless – No amount of manipulations to the body can make the person make any physical actions. The soul is the ‘driver’ in the body. It is the \"roohu\" or spirit or \"atma\", the presence of which makes the physical body alive.\n\nMany religious and philosophical traditions support the view that the soul is the ethereal substance – a spirit; a non material spark – particular to a unique living being. Such traditions often consider the soul both immortal and innately aware of its immortal nature, as well as the true basis for sentience in each living being. The concept of the soul has strong links with notions of an afterlife, but opinions may vary wildly even within a given religion as to what happens to the soul after death. Many within these religions and philosophies see the soul as immaterial, while others consider it possibly material.\n\nAccording to Chinese traditions, every person has two types of soul called hun and po (魂 and 魄), which are respectively yang and yin. Taoism believes in ten souls, \"sanhunqipo\" () \"three \"hun\" and seven \"po\"\". The pò is linked to the dead body and the grave, whereas the hún is linked to the ancestral tablet. A living being that loses any of them is said to have mental illness or unconsciousness, while a dead soul may reincarnate to a disability, lower desire realms, or may even be unable to reincarnate.\n\nIn theological reference to the soul, the terms \"life\" and \"death\" are viewed as emphatically more definitive than the common concepts of \"biological life\" and \"biological death\". Because the soul is said to be transcendent of the \"material existence,\" and is said to have (potentially) eternal life, the death of the soul is likewise said to be an \"eternal death\". Thus, in the concept of divine judgment, God is commonly said to have options with regard to the dispensation of souls, ranging from Heaven (i.e., angels) to hell (i.e., demons), with various concepts in between. Typically both Heaven and hell are said to be eternal, or at least far beyond a typical human concept of lifespan and time.\n\nAccording to Louis Ginzberg, soul of Adam is the image of God. Every soul of human also escapes from the body every night, rises up to heaven, and fetches new life thence for the body of man.\n\nIn Brahma Kumaris, human souls are believed to be incorporeal and eternal. God is considered to be the Supreme Soul, with maximum degrees of spiritual qualities, such as peace, love and purity.\n\nIn Helena Blavatsky's Theosophy, the soul is the field of our psychological activity (thinking, emotions, memory, desires, will, and so on) as well as of the so-called paranormal or psychic phenomena (extrasensory perception, out-of-body experiences, etc.). However, the soul is not the highest, but a middle dimension of human beings. Higher than the soul is the spirit, which is considered to be the real self; the source of everything we call \"good\"—happiness, wisdom, love, compassion, harmony, peace, etc. While the spirit is eternal and incorruptible, the soul is not. The soul acts as a link between the material body and the spiritual self, and therefore shares some characteristics of both. The soul can be attracted either towards the spiritual or towards the material realm, being thus the \"battlefield\" of good and evil. It is only when the soul is attracted towards the spiritual and merges with the Self that it becomes eternal and divine.\n\nRudolf Steiner differentiated three stages of soul development, which interpenetrate one another in consciousness:\n\nIn Surat Shabda Yoga, the soul is considered to be an exact replica and spark of the Divine. The purpose of Surat Shabd Yoga is to realize one's True Self as soul (Self-Realisation), True Essence (Spirit-Realisation) and True Divinity (God-Realisation) while living in the physical body.\n\nSimilarly, the spiritual teacher Meher Baba held that \"Atma, or the soul, is in reality identical with Paramatma the Oversoul — which is one, infinite, and eternal...[and] [t]he sole purpose of creation is for the soul to enjoy the infinite state of the Oversoul consciously.\"\n\nEckankar, founded by Paul Twitchell in 1965, defines Soul as the true self; the inner, most sacred part of each person.\n\nThe ancient Greeks used the word \"ensouled\" to represent the concept of being \"alive\", indicating that the earliest surviving western philosophical view believed that the soul was that which gave the body life. The soul was considered the incorporeal or spiritual \"breath\" that animates (from the Latin, \"anima\", cf. \"animal\") the living organism.\n\nFrancis M. Cornford quotes Pindar by saying that the soul sleeps while the limbs are active, but when one is sleeping, the soul is active and reveals \"an award of joy or sorrow drawing near\" in dreams.\n\nErwin Rohde writes that an early pre-Pythagorean belief presented the soul as lifeless when it departed the body, and that it retired into Hades with no hope of returning to a body.\n\nDrawing on the words of his teacher Socrates, Plato considered the psyche to be the essence of a person, being that which decides how we behave. He considered this essence to be an incorporeal, eternal occupant of our being. Plato says that even after death, the soul exists and is able to think. He believed that as bodies die, the soul is continually reborn in subsequent bodies. However, Aristotle believed that only one part of the soul was immortal namely the intellect (\"logos\"). The Platonic soul consists of three parts:\n\nThe parts are located in different regions of the body:\n\nPlato also compares the three parts of the soul or psyche to a societal caste system. According to Plato's theory, the three-part soul is essentially the same thing as a state's class system because, to function well, each part must contribute so that the whole functions well. Logos keeps the other functions of the soul regulated.\n\nAristotle (384 BCE – 322 BCE) defined the soul, or \"Psūchê\" (ψυχή), as the \"first actuality\" of a naturally organized body, and argued against its separate existence from the physical body. In Aristotle's view, the primary activity, or full actualization, of a living thing constitutes its soul. For example, the full actualization of an eye, as an independent organism, is to see (its purpose or final cause). Another example is that the full actualization of a human being would be living a fully functional human life in accordance with reason (which he considered to be a faculty unique to humanity). For Aristotle, the soul is the organization of the form and matter of a natural being which allows it to strive for its full actualization. This organization between form and matter is necessary for any activity, or functionality, to be possible in a natural being. Using an artifact (non-natural being) as an example, a house is a building for human habituation, but for a house to be actualized requires the material (wood, nails, bricks, etc.) necessary for its actuality (i.e. being a fully functional house). However, this does not imply that a house has a soul. In regards to artifacts, the source of motion that is required for their full actualization is outside of themselves (for example, a builder builds a house). In natural beings, this source of motion is contained within the being itself. Aristotle elaborates on this point when he addresses the faculties of the soul.\n\nThe various faculties of the soul, such as nutrition, movement (peculiar to animals), reason (peculiar to humans), sensation (special, common, and incidental) and so forth, when exercised, constitute the \"second\" actuality, or fulfillment, of the capacity to be alive. For example, someone who falls asleep, as opposed to someone who falls dead, can wake up and live their life, while the latter can no longer do so.\n\nAristotle identified three hierarchical levels of natural beings: plants, animals, and people, having three different degrees of soul: \"Bios\" (life), \"Zoë\" (animate life), and \"Psuchë\" (self-conscious life). For these groups, he identified three corresponding levels of soul, or biological activity: the nutritive activity of growth, sustenance and reproduction which all life shares (\"Bios\"); the self-willed motive activity and sensory faculties, which only animals and people have in common (\"Zoë\"); and finally \"reason\", of which people alone are capable (\"Pseuchë\").\n\nAristotle's discussion of the soul is in his work, \"De Anima\" (\"On the Soul\"). Although mostly seen as opposing Plato in regard to the immortality of the soul, a controversy can be found in relation to the fifth chapter of the third book: In this text both interpretations can be argued for, soul as a whole can be deemed mortal, and a part called \"active intellect\" or \"active mind\" is immortal and eternal. Advocates exist for both sides of the controversy, but it has been understood that there will be permanent disagreement about its final conclusions, as no other Aristotelian text contains this specific point, and this part of \"De Anima\" is obscure. Further, Aristotle states that the soul helps humans find the truth and understanding the true purpose or role of the soul is extremely difficult.\n\nFollowing Aristotle, Avicenna (Ibn Sina) and Ibn al-Nafis, a Persian philosopher, further elaborated upon the Aristotelian understanding of the soul and developed their own theories on the soul. They both made a distinction between the soul and the spirit, and the Avicennian doctrine on the nature of the soul was influential among the Scholastics. Some of Avicenna's views on the soul include the idea that the immortality of the soul is a consequence of its nature, and not a purpose for it to fulfill. In his theory of \"The Ten Intellects\", he viewed the human soul as the tenth and final intellect.\n\nWhile he was imprisoned, Avicenna wrote his famous \"Floating Man\" thought experiment to demonstrate human self-awareness and the substantial nature of the soul. He told his readers to imagine themselves suspended in the air, isolated from all sensations, which includes no sensory contact with even their own bodies. He argues that in this scenario one would still have self-consciousness. He thus concludes that the idea of the self is not logically dependent on any physical thing, and that the soul should not be seen in relative terms, but as a primary given, a substance. This argument was later refined and simplified by René Descartes in epistemic terms, when he stated: \"I can abstract from the supposition of all external things, but not from the supposition of my own consciousness.\"\n\nAvicenna generally supported Aristotle's idea of the soul originating from the heart, whereas Ibn al-Nafis rejected this idea and instead argued that the soul \"is related to the entirety and not to one or a few organs\". He further criticized Aristotle's idea whereby every unique soul requires the existence of a unique source, in this case the heart. al-Nafis concluded that \"the soul is related primarily neither to the spirit nor to any organ, but rather to the entire matter whose temperament is prepared to receive that soul,\" and he defined the soul as nothing other than \"what a human indicates by saying \"I\".\n\nFollowing Aristotle (whom he referred to as \"the Philosopher\") and Avicenna, Thomas Aquinas (1225–74) understood the soul to be the first actuality of the living body. Consequent to this, he distinguished three orders of life: plants, which feed and grow; animals, which add sensation to the operations of plants; and humans, which add intellect to the operations of animals.\n\nConcerning the human soul, his epistemological theory required that, since the knower becomes what he knows, the soul is definitely not corporeal—if it is corporeal when it knows what some corporeal thing is, that thing would come to be within it. Therefore, the soul has an operation which does not rely on a body organ, and therefore the soul can exist without a body. Furthermore, since the rational soul of human beings is a subsistent form and not something made of matter and form, it cannot be destroyed in any natural process. The full argument for the immortality of the soul and Aquinas' elaboration of Aristotelian theory is found in Question 75 of the First Part of the Summa Theologica.\n\nIn his discussions of rational psychology, Immanuel Kant (1724–1804) identified the soul as the \"I\" in the strictest sense, and argued that the existence of inner experience can neither be proved nor disproved.\n\nGilbert Ryle's ghost in the machine argument, which is a rejection of Descartes' mind–body dualism, can provide a contemporary understanding of the soul/mind, and the problem concerning its connection to the brain/body.\n\nPsychologist James Hillman's archetypal psychology is an attempt to restore the concept of the soul, which Hillman viewed as the \"self-sustaining and imagining substrate\" upon which consciousness rests. Hillman described the soul as that \"which makes meaning possible, [deepens] events into experiences, is communicated in love, and has a religious concern\", as well as \"a special relation with death\". Departing from the Cartesian dualism \"between outer tangible reality and inner states of mind\", Hillman takes the Neoplatonic stance that there is a \"third, middle position\" in which soul resides. Archetypal psychology acknowledges this third position by attuning to, and often accepting, the archetypes, dreams, myths, and even psychopathologies through which, in Hillman's view, soul expresses itself.\n\nThe current scientific consensus across all fields is that the existence of any kind of soul in the traditional sense is incompatible with a modern scientific understanding of the human mind, which holds that the human being is merely a complex machine that operates based on the exact same physical laws as all other objects in the universe, according to Julien Musolino, a cognitive scientist and professor at Rutgers University, who states that there is currently no scientific evidence whatsoever to support the existence of the soul and there is considerable evidence that seems to indicate that souls do not exist.\n\nNeuroscience as an interdisciplinary field, and its branch of cognitive neuroscience particularly, operates under the ontological assumption of physicalism. In other words, it assumes—in order to perform its science—that only the fundamental phenomena studied by physics exist. Thus, neuroscience seeks to understand mental phenomena within the framework according to which human thought and behavior are caused solely by physical processes taking place inside the brain, and it operates by the way of reductionism by seeking an explanation for the mind in terms of brain activity.\n\nTo study the mind in terms of the brain several methods of functional neuroimaging are used to study the neuroanatomical correlates of various cognitive processes that constitute the mind. The evidence from brain imaging indicates that all processes of the mind have physical correlates in brain function. However, such correlational studies cannot determine whether neural activity plays a causal role in the occurrence of these cognitive processes (correlation does not imply causation) and they cannot determine if the neural activity is either necessary or sufficient for such processes to occur. Identification of causation, and of necessary and sufficient conditions requires explicit experimental manipulation of that activity. If manipulation of brain activity changes consciousness, then a causal role for that brain activity can be inferred. Two of the most common types of manipulation experiments are loss-of-function and gain-of-function experiments. In a loss-of-function (also called \"necessity\") experiment, a part of the nervous system is diminished or removed in an attempt to determine if it is necessary for a certain process to occur, and in a gain-of-function (also called \"sufficiency\") experiment, an aspect of the nervous system is increased relative to normal. Manipulations of brain activity can be performed with direct electrical brain stimulation, magnetic brain stimulation using transcranial magnetic stimulation, psychopharmacological manipulation, optogenetic manipulation, and by studying the symptoms of brain damage (case studies) and lesions. In addition, neuroscientists are also investigating how the mind develops with the development of the brain.\n\nPhysicist Sean M. Carroll has written that the idea of a soul is incompatible with quantum field theory (QFT). He writes that for a soul to exist: \"Not only is new physics required, but dramatically new physics. Within QFT, there can't be a new collection of 'spirit particles' and 'spirit forces' that interact with our regular atoms, because we would have detected them in existing experiments.\"\n\nQuantum indeterminism has been invoked by some theorists as a solution to the problem of how a soul might interact with the brain, but neuroscientist Peter Clarke found errors with this viewpoint, noting there is no evidence that such processes play a role in brain function; and concluded that a Cartesian soul has no basis from quantum physics.\n\nSome parapsychologists have attempted to establish, by scientific experiment, whether a soul separate from the brain exists, as is more commonly defined in religion rather than as a synonym of psyche or mind. Milbourne Christopher (1979) and Mary Roach (2010) have argued that none of the attempts by parapsychologists have yet succeeded.\n\nIn 1901 Duncan MacDougall conducted an experiment in which he made weight measurements of patients as they died. He claimed that there was weight loss of varying amounts at the time of death; he concluded the soul weighed 21 grams. The physicist Robert L. Park has written that MacDougall's experiments \"are not regarded today as having any scientific merit\" and the psychologist Bruce Hood wrote that \"because the weight loss was not reliable or replicable, his findings were unscientific.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9662404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9662404", "title": "Space Vehicle Mockup Facility", "text": "Space Vehicle Mockup Facility\n\nThe Space Vehicle Mockup Facility (SVMF) is a large open space area located inside Building 9 of Johnson Space Center in Houston. It consists of a long 200 meter long chamber that houses several Space Shuttle mockups, as well as mockups of every major pressurized module on the International Space Station. It is primarily used for astronaut training and systems familiarization.\n\nThe International Space Station modules are 1:1 scale and are maintained as accurate as possible to the real spacecraft in orbit. The facility also has a 1/6th gravity simulator and Mars Rover test vehicles. An industrial door at the North End, and overhead cranes allows the installation of new mockup spacecraft to be loaded into the facility. Space Center Houston allows a level 9 VIP tourist access to the entire training facility.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "762988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762988", "title": "Swarm intelligence", "text": "Swarm intelligence\n\nSwarm intelligence (SI) is the collective behavior of decentralized, self-organized systems, natural or artificial. The concept is employed in work on artificial intelligence. The expression was introduced by Gerardo Beni and Jing Wang in 1989, in the context of cellular robotic systems.\n\nSI systems consist typically of a population of simple agents or boids interacting locally with one another and with their environment. The inspiration often comes from nature, especially biological systems. The agents follow very simple rules, and although there is no centralized control structure dictating how individual agents should behave, local, and to a certain degree random, interactions between such agents lead to the emergence of \"intelligent\" global behavior, unknown to the individual agents. Examples of swarm intelligence in natural systems include ant colonies, bird flocking, animal herding, bacterial growth, fish schooling and microbial intelligence.\n\nThe application of swarm principles to robots is called swarm robotics, while 'swarm intelligence' refers to the more general set of algorithms. 'Swarm prediction' has been used in the context of forecasting problems.\n\nBoids is an artificial life program, developed by Craig Reynolds in 1986, which simulates the flocking behaviour of birds. His paper on this topic was published in 1987 in the proceedings of the ACM SIGGRAPH conference.\nThe name \"boid\" corresponds to a shortened version of \"bird-oid object\", which refers to a bird-like object.\n\nAs with most artificial life simulations, Boids is an example of emergent behavior; that is, the complexity of Boids arises from the interaction of individual agents (the boids, in this case) adhering to a set of simple rules. The rules applied in the simplest Boids world are as follows:\n\n\nMore complex rules can be added, such as obstacle avoidance and goal seeking.\n\nSelf-propelled particles (SPP), also referred to as the \"Vicsek model\", was introduced in 1995 by Vicsek \"et al.\" as a special case of the boids model introduced in 1986 by Reynolds. A swarm is modelled in SPP by a collection of particles that move with a constant speed but respond to a random perturbation by adopting at each time increment the average direction of motion of the other particles in their local neighbourhood. SPP models predict that swarming animals share certain properties at the group level, regardless of the type of animals in the swarm. Swarming systems give rise to emergent behaviours which occur at many different scales, some of which are turning out to be both universal and robust. It has become a challenge in theoretical physics to find minimal statistical models that capture these behaviours.\n\nEvolutionary algorithms (EA), particle swarm optimization (PSO), ant colony optimization (ACO) and their variants dominate the field of nature-inspired metaheuristics. This list includes algorithms published up to circa the year 2000. A large number of more recent metaphor-inspired metaheuristics have started to attract criticism in the research community for hiding their lack of novelty behind an elaborate metaphor. For algorithms published since that time, see List of metaphor-based metaheuristics.\n\nFirst published in 1989 Stochastic diffusion search (SDS) was the first Swarm Intelligence metaheuristic. SDS is an agent-based probabilistic global search and optimization technique best suited to problems where the objective function can be decomposed into multiple independent partial-functions. Each agent maintains a hypothesis which is iteratively tested by evaluating a randomly selected partial objective function parameterised by the agent's current hypothesis. In the standard version of SDS such partial function evaluations are binary, resulting in each agent becoming active or inactive. Information on hypotheses is diffused across the population via inter-agent communication. Unlike the stigmergic communication used in ACO, in SDS agents communicate hypotheses via a one-to-one communication strategy analogous to the tandem running procedure observed in Leptothorax acervorum. A positive feedback mechanism ensures that, over time, a population of agents stabilise around the global-best solution. SDS is both an efficient and robust global search and optimisation algorithm, which has been extensively mathematically described. Recent work has involved merging the global search properties of SDS with other swarm intelligence algorithms.\n\nAnt colony optimization (ACO), introduced by Dorigo in his doctoral dissertation, is a class of optimization algorithms modeled on the actions of an ant colony. ACO is a probabilistic technique useful in problems that deal with finding better paths through graphs. Artificial 'ants'—simulation agents—locate optimal solutions by moving through a parameter space representing all possible solutions. Natural ants lay down pheromones directing each other to resources while exploring their environment. The simulated 'ants' similarly record their positions and the quality of their solutions, so that in later simulation iterations more ants locate for better solutions.\n\nParticle swarm optimization (PSO) is a global optimization algorithm for dealing with problems in which a best solution can be represented as a point or surface in an n-dimensional space. Hypotheses are plotted in this space and seeded with an initial velocity, as well as a communication channel between the particles. Particles then move through the solution space, and are evaluated according to some fitness criterion after each timestep. Over time, particles are accelerated towards those particles within their communication grouping which have better fitness values. The main advantage of such an approach over other global minimization strategies such as simulated annealing is that the large number of members that make up the particle swarm make the technique impressively resilient to the problem of local minima.\n\nSwarm Intelligence-based techniques can be used in a number of applications. The U.S. military is investigating swarm techniques for controlling unmanned vehicles. The European Space Agency is thinking about an orbital swarm for self-assembly and interferometry. NASA is investigating the use of swarm technology for planetary mapping. A 1992 paper by M. Anthony Lewis and George A. Bekey discusses the possibility of using swarm intelligence to control nanobots within the body for the purpose of killing cancer tumors. Conversely al-Rifaie and Aber have used stochastic diffusion search to help locate tumours. Swarm intelligence has also been applied for data mining.\n\nThe use of swarm intelligence in telecommunication networks has also been researched, in the form of ant-based routing. This was pioneered separately by Dorigo et al. and Hewlett Packard in the mid-1990s, with a number of variations since. Basically, this uses a probabilistic routing table rewarding/reinforcing the route successfully traversed by each \"ant\" (a small control packet) which flood the network. Reinforcement of the route in the forwards, reverse direction and both simultaneously have been researched: backwards reinforcement requires a symmetric network and couples the two directions together; forwards reinforcement rewards a route before the outcome is known (but then one would pay for the cinema before one knows how good the film is). As the system behaves stochastically and is therefore lacking repeatability, there are large hurdles to commercial deployment. Mobile media and new technologies have the potential to change the threshold for collective action due to swarm intelligence (Rheingold: 2002, P175).\n\nThe location of transmission infrastructure for wireless communication networks is an important engineering problem involving competing objectives. A minimal selection of locations (or sites) are required subject to providing adequate area coverage for users. A very different-ant inspired swarm intelligence algorithm, stochastic diffusion search (SDS), has been successfully used to provide a general model for this problem, related to circle packing and set covering. It has been shown that the SDS can be applied to identify suitable solutions even for large problem instances.\n\nAirlines have also used ant-based routing in assigning aircraft arrivals to airport gates. At Southwest Airlines a software program uses swarm theory, or swarm intelligence—the idea that a colony of ants works better than one alone. Each pilot acts like an ant searching for the best airport gate. \"The pilot learns from his experience what's the best for him, and it turns out that that's the best solution for the airline,\" Douglas A. Lawson explains. As a result, the \"colony\" of pilots always go to gates they can arrive at and depart from quickly. The program can even alert a pilot of plane back-ups before they happen. \"We can anticipate that it's going to happen, so we'll have a gate available,\" Lawson says.\n\nArtists are using swarm technology as a means of creating complex interactive systems or simulating crowds.\n\n\"\" was the first movie to make use of swarm technology for rendering, realistically depicting the movements of groups of fish and birds using the Boids system. Tim Burton's \"Batman Returns\" also made use of swarm technology for showing the movements of a group of bats. \"The Lord of the Rings\" film trilogy made use of similar technology, known as Massive, during battle scenes. Swarm technology is particularly attractive because it is cheap, robust, and simple.\n\nAirlines have used swarm theory to simulate passengers boarding a plane. Southwest Airlines researcher Douglas A. Lawson used an ant-based computer simulation employing only six interaction rules to evaluate boarding times using various boarding methods.(Miller, 2010, xii-xviii).\n\nEnabled by mediating software such as the SWARM platform (formally unu) from Unanimous A.I., networks of distributed users can be organized into \"human swarms\" through the implementation of real-time closed-loop control systems. As published by Rosenberg (2015), such real-time systems enable groups of human participants to behave as a unified collective intelligence that works as a single entity to make predictions, answer questions, and evoke opinions. Such systems, also referred to as \"Artificial Swarm Intelligence\" (or the brand name Swarm AI) have been shown to significantly amplify human intelligence, resulting in a string of high-profile predictions of extreme accuracy. Academic testing shows that human swarms can out-predict individuals across a variety of real-world projections. Famously, human swarming was used to correctly predict the Kentucky Derby Superfecta, against 541 to 1 odds, in response to a challenge from reporters.\n\nSwarm grammars are swarms of stochastic grammars that can be evolved to describe complex properties such as found in art and architecture. These grammars interact as agents behaving according to rules of swarm intelligence. Such behavior can also suggest deep learning algorithms, in particular when mapping of such swarms to neural circuits is considered.\n\nIn a series of works al-Rifaie et al. have successfully used two swarm intelligence algorithms—one mimicking the behaviour of one species of ants (\"Leptothorax acervorum\") foraging (stochastic diffusion search, SDS) and the other algorithm mimicking the behaviour of birds flocking (particle swarm optimization, PSO)—to describe a novel integration strategy exploiting the local search properties of the PSO with global SDS behaviour. The resulting hybrid algorithm is used to sketch novel drawings of an input image, exploiting an artistic tension between the local behaviour of the 'birds flocking'—as they seek to follow the input sketch—and the global behaviour of the \"ants foraging\"—as they seek to encourage the flock to explore novel regions of the canvas. The \"creativity\" of this hybrid swarm system has been analysed under the philosophical light of the \"rhizome\" in the context of Deleuze's \"Orchid and Wasp\" metaphor.\n\nIn a more recent work of al-Rifaie et al., \"Swarmic Sketches and Attention Mechanism\", introduces a novel approach deploying the mechanism of 'attention' by adapting SDS to selectively attend to detailed areas of a digital canvas. Once the attention of the swarm is drawn to a certain line within the canvas, the capability of PSO is used to produce a 'swarmic sketch' of the attended line. The swarms move throughout the digital canvas in an attempt to satisfy their dynamic roles—attention to areas with more details—associated to them via their fitness function. Having associated the rendering process with the concepts of attention, the performance of the participating swarms creates a unique, non-identical sketch each time the 'artist' swarms embark on interpreting the input line drawings. In other works while PSO is responsible for the sketching process, SDS controls the attention of the swarm.\n\nIn a similar work, \"Swarmic Paintings and Colour Attention\", non-photorealistic images are produced using SDS algorithm which, in the context of this work, is responsible for colour attention.\n\nThe \"computational creativity\" of the above-mentioned systems are discussed in through the two prerequisites of creativity (i.e. freedom and constraints) within the swarm intelligence's two infamous phases of exploration and exploitation.\n\nMichael Theodore and Nikolaus Correll use swarm intelligent art installation to explore what it takes to have engineered systems to appear lifelike.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1786948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1786948", "title": "Tantrum", "text": "Tantrum\n\nA tantrum, temper tantrum, meltdown or hissy fit is an emotional outburst, usually associated with children or those in emotional distress, that is typically characterized by stubbornness, crying, screaming, violence, defiance, angry ranting, a resistance to attempts at pacification, and, in some cases, hitting, and other physically violent behavior. Physical control may be lost; the person may be unable to remain still; and even if the \"goal\" of the person is met, he or she may not be calmed.\nA tantrum may be expressed in a tirade: a protracted, angry speech.\n\nTantrums are one of the most common forms of problematic behavior in young children, but tend to decrease in frequency and intensity as the child grows older. For the toddler, tantrums can be considered as normal, even as gauges of a developing strength of character.While tantrums are sometimes seen as a predictor of future anti-social behaviour, in another sense they are simply an age-appropriate sign of excessive frustration, and will diminish over time given a calm and consistent handling. Parental containment where a child cannot contain itself—rather than what the child is ostensibly demanding—may be what is really required.\n\nSelma Fraiberg warned against \"too much pressure or forceful methods of control from the outside\" in child-rearing: \"if we turn every instance of pants changing, treasure hunting, napping, puddle wading and garbage distribution into a governmental crisis we can easily bring on fierce defiance, tantrums, and all the fireworks of revolt in the nursery\".\n\nSome people who have neurological disorders such as autism, ADHD, and intellectual disability could be more vulnerable to tantrums than others, although anyone experiencing brain damage (temporary or permanent) can suffer from tantrums. Anyone may be prone to tantrums once in a while, regardless of gender or age. However, a meltdown due to sensory overload (which even neurotypical children can experience) is not the same as a temper tantrum.\n\nFreud considered that the Wolf Man's development of temper tantrums was connected with his seduction by his sister: he became \"discontented, irritable and violent, took offence on every possible occasion, and then flew into a rage and screamed like a savage\". Freud linked the tantrums to an unconscious need for punishment driven by feelings of guilt—something which he thought could be generalised to many other cases of childhood tantrums.\n\nHeinz Kohut contended that tantrums were narcissistic rages, caused by the thwarting of the infant's grandiose-exhibitionist core. The blow to the inflated self-image, when a child's wishes are (however justifiably) refused, creates fury because it strikes at the feeling of omnipotence.\n\nJealousy over the birth of a sibling, and resulting aggression, may also provoke negativistic tantrums, as the effort at controlling the feelings overloads the child's system of self-regulation.\n\nThackeray claimed that in later life \"you may tell a Tantrum as far as you can see one, by the distressed and dissatisfied expression of its countenance—'Tantrumical', if we may term it so\".\n\nHeinz Kohut contended that \"the infant's core is likely to contain a self-centred, grandiose-exhibitionist part\", and that \"tantrums at being frustrated thus represent narcissistic rages\" at the blow to the inflated self-image. With \"a child confronted with some refusal ... regardless of its justifications, the refusal automatically provokes fury, since it offends his sense of omnipotence\".\n\nThe willingness of the celebrity to throw tantrums whenever thwarted to the least degree is a kind of Acquired Situational Narcissism or tantrumical behavior.\n\nIf tantrums are shown by older people they might often be signs of immaturity and a mental disability; however, many people can have them under extreme stress.\n\n"}
{"id": "49327414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49327414", "title": "Tibs the Great", "text": "Tibs the Great\n\nTibs the Great (November 1950 – December 1964) was the British Post Office's \"number one cat\" and kept the post office headquarters completely mouse-free during his 14 years of service. He was the son of Minnie, and on his death, several newspapers ran an obituary.\n\nCats had been officially employed by the Post Office to catch rodents since September 1868, when three cats were taken on for a six-month trial period at a rate of one shilling per week, in the London Money Order Office. On 7 May 1869, it was noted that \"the cats have done their duty very efficiently\". By 1873, the cats were being paid 1s 6d, and were being employed in other post offices.\n\nIt is thought that Tibs was born in London in November 1950. His father is unknown. His mother was Minnie, another \"fine cat\" also owned by Alf Talbut.\n\nTibs worked at Post Office Headquarters in London for 14 years, and was officially employed and paid 2s 6d per week. He worked in the basement and his job was to catch rats. He was cared for by Alf Talbut, cleaner at St Martin's-le-Grand throughout his life. During his 14 years, Tibs kept the Post Office headquarters completely mouse-free.\n\nIn 1952 there was \"public outrage\" that the cats had not had a pay rise since 1873, and the next year there was a question in the House of Commons, asking the Assistant Postmaster-General, David Gammans, \"when the allowance payable for the maintenance of cats in his department was last raised?\"\n\nGammans replied,\n\nHe also hastened to assure the House that Post Office cats had \"an adequate maternity service\", and that equal pay prevailed in the group.\n\nIn 1953, Tibs was featured in a book titled \"Cockney Cats\" by Warren Tute and Felix Fonteyn. He also appeared at a \"Cats and Film Stars\" party.\n\nTibs died in December 1964. He had been suffering from oral cancer. He received obituaries in several newspapers. By the time of his death he had grown to 23lb in weight, probably due to living in one of the staff dining rooms, rather than from eating rats.\n\nThe last cat employed at Post Office headquarters was Blackie, who died in 1984, which coincided with cloth sacks being replaced with rodent-resistant plastic sacks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54242160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54242160", "title": "UN Counter-Terrorism Implementation Task Force", "text": "UN Counter-Terrorism Implementation Task Force\n\nThe UN Counter-Terrorism Implementation Task Force (CTITF) is an instrument designed to roll out the UN Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy.\n\nSince its formation in 2005, the task force has brought forth different initiatives that assist in the Counter Terrorism Strategy including the UN Counter Terrorism Handbook. Its working groups have offered workshops and presented reports that are designed to assist important UN actors, member states and stakeholders in the fight against terrorism.\n\nBefore the CTITF was formed, the Security Council of the UN legally binded all member states through resolutions relating to the United Nations Charter. The resolutions included;\n\nThe United Nations Security Council Resolution 1267, adopted in October 1999 requires the Taliban in Afghanistan to stop providing refuge to terrorist organizations and demand that they cooperate in bringing terrorists to justice. This resolution also imposes aviation actions and financial sanctions on the Taliban. It also established the Security Council Committee.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council Resolution 1373, adopted in September 2001 under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. The aims of this resolution is to hinder terrorist actions. This resolution calls on states to adjust national laws to better combat terrorism and focuses on regulating immigration laws to contain the spread of terrorism. It also place legal obligations on member states requiring them to freeze any financial assets of terrorist and supporters, deny travel means or safe havens for terrorists, and prevent their weapon supply and recruitment.\n\nThese resolutions began the formation of branches in the United Nations to combat terrorism.\n\nIn 2005, the Secretary- General Kofi Annan created the United Nations Counter Terrorism Implementation Task Force. It was later endorsed by the General Assembly in 2006 through the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, to ensure that all terrorism units in the UN work together to increase the efficiency and range.\n\nThe Secretary General appoints a senior United Nations official to act as the chair of the task force. The task force is divided into approximately 38 member entities including the World Bank, the Youth Envoy and the World Health Organization (WHO). and INTERPOL. The CTITF is divided into 4 subgroups; the United Nations Security Council, the Secretariat, the Agencies Programmes Funds and Observers. The goal of the CTITF is to maximize each of the entity‘s comparative advantage by delivering as one to help Member States implement the four pillars of the Global Strategy.\n\nThe intent of Counter Terrorism Implementation Task Force is to help states in the UN enforce the 4 building blocks that make up Global Strategy. The four Pillars are;\nThe Counter Terrorism Implementation Task Force is responsible for ensuring all needs of member states in the United Nations are met and policies are supported.\n\nThe status of working groups has implemented a project on harmonized border management, compiling all recent international conventions, and best practices in an applicable, user-friendly format to help interested states build the institutional and procedural mechanisms for an effective border management system A working arrangement on harmonized border management has been completed by the working group. This idea will continue to be maximized through ongoing consultations with member states and international organizations.\n\nEntities of the United Nations Counter Terrorism Implementation Task Force involve;\n\nMobility and processing of people\n\nBecause the processes that allow travel and economic and cultural exchanges is exploited by terrorists, measures that are put in place to prevent terrorism have become explicitly linked to the management and regulation of movement across borders. These measures include implementing passenger integrated border-management systems, issuing secure travel documents, promoting exchange of information among stakeholders, training, and capacity-building. Improving in areas like this can help heighten security and immigration systems while also allowing the cross-border movement of people. Some of these measures are technologically complex, but more basic systems can be achieved in traditional areas of migration- management with a view to enhancing overall capacity\n\nMovement and processing of goods\n\nGlobal trade, as well as the international supply chain are vulnerable to manipulation by terrorists. In order to minimize this vulnerability, a range of measures should be taken, including ensuring receipt of advance electronic cargo information about inbound, outbound and transit shipments; employing a consistent risk-management approach to address threats to cargo security; using non-intrusive detection equipment; promoting cooperation among customs administrations (e.g. by performing outbound inspection of high-risk containers and cargo); and establishing partnerships with the private sector for the implementation of secure practices at every stage of the supply chain, through Authorized Economic Operator (AEO). The implementation of these and other measures is key in order to maximize security in international trade and facilitate the movement of goods across borders programmes\n\nMaritime security\n\nOver 90 per cent of the total goods traded internationally is transported from source to destination along the world’s main global sea-trading routes he security of the maritime domain is therefore classified as a major problem of global importance. The aims of maritime security are to detect and deter security threats; to take preventive measures against security incidents affecting ships or port facilities; and to safeguard passengers, crews, ships and their cargoes, port facilities and the people who work and live in port areas, while still allowing for the safe and efficient movement of maritime trade. Effective implementation of the relevant legislative and practical security measures is necessary in order to prevent unlawful acts against the passengers and crew of ships engaged in international voyages and against the port facilities that serve them.\n\nEarly warning and alert systems\n\nBorder security is a dynamic and constantly changing process because the illegal cross-border movement of people affects not only the security, but also economic and social welfare of states. Comprehensive early-warning and alert systems are therefore key components of effective border management systems. They strengthen the collective capacity of states to detect, and combat terrorism, by facilitating inter-agency cooperation and the timely sharing and exchange of pertinent, reliable information, allow the enabling important decisions to be taken in a reasonable manner\n\nMany international organizations with a border-control mandate and utilize early- warning and alert systems. Those tools include the WCO CEN and RILO networks; IMOSOLAS, LRIT and AIS; the Consolidated Lists of the Security Council “sanctions” committees, and the “I-24/7” secure global communications system, SLTD database and Notices regime of the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL)\n\nThe United Nations Secretariat, agencies, funds and programmes, and affiliated organizations contribute to the implementation of the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy both through their individual mandates and through their membership in the Counter-Terrorism Implementation Task Force (CTITF)\n\nIntegrated Assistance for Countering Terrorism is an important working group in the Task force. The working group consists of representatives from different UN entities involved in putting the counter terrorism strategy in action for countries who wish to receive help from the UN.\n\nIn 2014, the inter-agency working groups of the CTITF were reformed in 2014 to help improve efficiency and effectiveness of the entities' in achieving results.\n\nSome of the working groups currently in place include;\n\nBorder Management and Law Enforcement relating to Counter-Terrorism\n\nThis working group strives to allow guidance to Member States on implementation of legal, institutional and practical counter-terrorism-related border control measures required. It focuses on the following areas: terrorist mobility; integrity and security of travel documents; illicit movement of cash and bearer negotiable instruments; movement and processing of goods; illicit movement of small arms, light weapons, ammunition, explosives and weapons of mass destruction; aviation and maritime security; early-warning and alert systems. This Working Group was established to help Member States strengthen their border-management and border-control systems as set out in Pillar II, in paragraphs 4,5, 7, 8, 13 to 16 and Pillar III, in paragraphs 2, 4 and 11 to 13 of the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy\n\nCountering the Financing of Terrorism\n\nThis working group incorporates various international organizations and other united nations entities to reverse the funding of various forms of terrorism. This working group ensures the standard to countering the finance of terrorism is met according to the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism and the Financial Action Task Force. The actions of the working group includes coordinating with different entities on the subject of repression of terrorism finances. From February 2007 to December 2008, multiple meetings took place with banks, financial intelligence, law enforcement, criminal justice experts, national security intelligence etc. to establish how to efficiently fight the financing of terrorism.\n\nThe conclusions from these meeting as to how to suppress terrorism financially include; the criminalization of terrorist financing, the enhancement of domestic and international cooperation, value transfer systems, non-profit organizations, and the freezing of assets. Based on the conclusions, the International Monetary Fund was able to prepare an action plan with motions for the employment of the above conclusions.\n\nForeign Terrorist Fighters (FTF)\n\nThis working group was formed on September 24, 2014 when Resolution 2178 was formed to monitor and control terrorism threats and foreign terrorist fighters. The definition of Foreign terrorist fighters is people who travel to a state outside of their own to involve themselves in terrorist activities (ie. planning, preparing, perpetration terrorist acts, receiving or providing terrorism training etc.) The Security Council has stated that terrorist groups such as the Islamic state, Al-Qaida etc. have attracted over 30,000 foreign terrorist fighters.\n\nNational and Regional Counter-Terrorism Strategies\n\nOn June 29, 2012, the national and regional efforts to combat terrorism was expanded due to the encouragement from the General Assembly. This working group is used to assist in unrolling national counterterrorism strategies.\n\nPreventing and Responding to WMD Terrorist Attacks\n\nThis working group is used to monitor the success of the UN strategies in response to terrorist attacks (nuclear, chemical, biological, radiological or any other type of weapons used). The group has formed a communal exchange of information among other UN entities and working groups such as knowledge on existing activities and emergency plans in response to WMD attacks.\n\nPreventing Violent Extremism and Conditions Conducive to the Spread of Terrorism\n\nSince February 2015, this working group has aided in the Secretary General’s efforts to prevent violent extremism. The working group gave input on the effects of extremism and the causes of it. They also provided advice on how to assist member states in preventing violent extremism.\n\nPromoting and Protecting Human Rights and the Rule of Law While Countering Terrorism\n\nThis working group was formed by member states to assure human rights are protected and the rule of law is obeyed. Pillar IV of the CTITF plays a large role in the implementation. The goal of this group is to gather information exchange on human rights and the rule of law capacity building surrounding the concept of counter terrorism. This working group has now set in place a support and assistance function available to member states to ensure human rights and the rule of law is well established. In April 2013, a global project was launched by this working group called Capacity Building and Training of Law Enforcement Officials on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and the Prevention of Terrorism. The goal of this project is to properly train law enforcement officials in charge of counter terrorism on human rights.\n\nProtection of Critical Infrastructure Including Internet, Vulnerable Targets and Tourism Security\n\nThis working group’s role is to uphold confidentiality, respecting human rights under international law. Their goals are to control efforts, both regionally and internationally to counter terrorism in its various forms on the internet as well as improve security of vulnerable targets such as infrastructure and public places. The objectives are to;\nSupporting and Highlighting Victims of Terrorism\n\nThe role of this working group is to provide support and aids to victims of terrorism. They promote the rights of the victims through media platforms, workshops etc. The mandate of this working group is stated within Pillar I and Pillar IV stating the strategy seeks to “promote international solidarity in support of victims”, stress “the need to promote and protect the rights of victims of terrorism and their families and facilitate the normalization of their lives” and sees the “dehumanization of victims of terrorism” as a major concern that leads to the spread of terrorism.\n\nLegal and Criminal Justice Responses to Terrorism\n\nThe three roles of this working group are; to help coordination in the UN regarding activities of various entities in the UN that are involved in supporting legal and criminal justice in response to terrorism, developing an approach for the UN in dealing with legal and criminal justice matters with regards to terrorism and to give advice and legal assistance to member states with involving legal and criminal justice regarding terrorism.\n\nGender Sensitive Approach to Preventing and Countering Terrorism\n\nThis working group was created because of the fact that women began playing a more important role in the fight against terrorism as they are influential in regards to families, communities and governments. This working group is still in formation.\n\nWorking Group on Communications\n\nThis working group examines the adequacy of a communication and is allocated by the Human Rights Council Advisory Committee. Consisting of five independent and qualified experts representing five regional groups (geographically), the members, appointed for three years, meet twice a year for five business days to judge the adequacy and quality of communication. This includes examining if communication separately or in cooperation with other communications demonstrates a consistency of authentic and gross violations of human rights. As of 2017, the working group consists of Mario L. Coriolano (Argentina), Mikhael Lebedev (Russian Federation), Katharina Pabel (Austria), Changrok Soh (Rebulic of Korea) and Imeru Tamrat Yigezu (Ethiopia). This working group is still in formation.\n"}
{"id": "54654071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54654071", "title": "Vasilya Fattakhova", "text": "Vasilya Fattakhova\n\nVasilya Razifovna Fattakhova (, , 31 December 1979, Beloretsk – 26 January 2016, Ufa) was a Tatar singer from Bashkortostan. She was declared an Honored Artist of the Republic of Tatarstan (2015), Honored Artist of the Republic of Bashkortostan (2015). She first gained popularity among the Tatars and Bashkirs for performing the song \"Tugan Yak\" by composer Ural Rashitov.\n\nFattakhova was born on 31 December 1979, in Beloretsk, Bashkortostan. She graduated from the choir department of Uchaly College of Arts and Culture.\n\nIn 1999 she entered the Ufa State Institute of Arts in the vocal department. In October, she left on tour with Aidar Galimov's band as a backup singer.\n\nFattakhova is most famous for her hit \"Tugan Yak\" (Homeland), performed in the Tatar language, which gained fame throughout Russia and elsewhere. Most of the song consists of only her voice and percussion, omitting the bayan, which is nearly universal in Tatar music. The song was recognized as the best in the category \"International Song\" at the variety festival \"Crystal Nightingale\" and among \"The best hits of the 10th anniversary\" of the annual international festival \"Tatar җyry\" Tatar song in 2008.\n\nOther well-known songs include \"Әytelmәgәn mәhәbbәt\" (2002, \"The unspoken love\", includes an option in the Bashkir language, sung in duet with Aydar Galimov), \"Yalgyz milesh\" (Lonely rowan tree), \"Etiem\" (The Father), \"Almagach chechage\" (Apple Blossom), \"Shakhter Kary\" (The Song of the Miner). Fattakhova performed an annual tour called \"Every spring\".\n\nFattakhova died on 26 January 2016, in Ufa due to complications from childbirth of her daughter. She was buried at the \"Walk of Fame\" of the Southern Cemetery in Ufa.\n"}
{"id": "30856302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30856302", "title": "Veterinary ethics", "text": "Veterinary ethics\n\nVeterinary ethics is a system of moral principles that apply values and judgements to the practice of veterinary medicine. As a scholarly discipline, veterinary ethics encompasses its practical application in clinical settings as well as work on its history, philosophy, theology, and sociology. Veterinary ethics combines veterinary professional ethics and the subject of animal ethics. It can be interpreted as a critical reflection on the provision of veterinary services in support of the profession's responsibilities to animal kind and mankind.\n\nAnimal welfare has been a subject that is studied in great depth, it largely looks at the ways in which an animal may suffer in particular circumstances or how their lives may be enriched. Animal ethics is another well documented subject where philosophers, since Aristotle, have commented on its importance. Often referred to as “the animal problem’ the questions that seem to be asked in this field are at their foundation trying to determine what the morally relevant difference is between animals and humans, and if there is no difference how do we justify treating animals a certain way and if there is a difference then what is it about this difference that allows us to treat animals in a certain way.\n\nVeterinary ethics is a modern subject that does not have a defined start point. As it combines the study of animal welfare and animal ethics as its root and uses information from this as data for its deliberations it could be said to have a long history, however as an academic discipline it is only recently that works have been published on the topic.\n\nThe two academics seen to have written on veterinary ethics for the longest are Bernard Rollin (Colorado State University) and Jerrold Tannenbaum (University of California, Davis). They can be seen as the founders of the subject in veterinary ethics. Currently, most veterinary schools teach veterinary ethics and it is often combined in teaching with animal welfare or with law.\n\nThe subject is very similar to that of human medical ethics in that the study of the relationship between the doctor and the patient relates closely to that of the veterinary surgeon and animal owner. However, the subject differs greatly in the consideration of the uses of animals, while a doctor’s duty may to preserve life at nearly all cost, the veterinary surgeon needs to adapt their attitude to health and longevity of life to the purpose of the animal (E.g., farm animals).\n\nMuch of what is understood in the field of professionalism and professional responsibilities in confidentiality, preserving autonomy, beneficence, truth-telling, whistleblowing, informed consent and communication is largely lifted from the research done in the medical profession. The difference between the human patients and the animal patients does not interfere with the professionalism discussion between doctors and human patients and vets with their clients.\n\nAnother major difference between veterinary ethics and human medical ethics is the interplay with law. Human medical ethics has driven changes in the law and, to a lesser degree, vice versa. Largely involving cases of human rights a wide ranging variety of high-profile legal challenges in many countries have involved the use of ethics to encourage changes in law (for example, assisted suicide, abortion, duty of care, rights to refuse treatment). Veterinary ethics does not have such a strong interplay. It is rare to have an animal based legal challenge reaching high into the legal system. Cases involving challenges to professionalism and duty of care are largely dealt with via the veterinary governing bodies.\n\nThe veterinary profession remains largely self-regulating across the world (\"e.g.\", by the RCVS and AVMA). This has caused some controversy as to why the veterinary profession remains one of the few remaining self-regulating professions. Bernard Rollin wrote on this the difficulty in keeping public confidence while remaining self-regulating, trust and impartiality are critical but most importantly is the need for a profession to self-sacrificial by putting the clients needs above that of the profession or professional’s need.\n\n“Every profession—be it medicine, law, or agriculture—is given freedom by the social ethic to pursue its aims. In return, society basically says to professions it does not understand well enough to regulate, “You regulate yourselves the way we would regulate you if we understood what you do, which we don’t. But we will know if you don’t self-regulate properly and then we will [hammer you with draconian rules and] regulate you, despite our lack of understanding.”\n\nThe American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) regularly reviews and updates its principles of ethics. The AVMA Judicial Council acts as the group in charge of insuring the principles are current. Much like the human medical code, veterinarians are expected to \"adhere to a progressive code of ethical conduct\". Overall there are eight main principles, covering areas such as compentance, animal welfare, the veterinarian-client-patient relationship, standards of professionalism, honesty, compliance with the law, continuing education, acting within boundaries of compentance, and the betterment of public health.\n\nThe key topics within veterinary ethics are:\n\nUniversities Federation for Animal Welfare\n"}
