{"id": "16424568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16424568", "title": "1957 Angara", "text": "1957 Angara\n\n1957 Angara, provisional designation , is a stony Eoan asteroid from the outer regions of the asteroid belt, approximately 18 kilometers in diameter. It was discovered on 1 April 1970, by Soviet astronomer Lyudmila Chernykh at the Crimean Astrophysical Observatory in Nauchnyj, and named after the Siberian Angara River.\n\n\"Angara\" is a member of the Eos family, well known for mostly being of a silicaceous composition. It orbits the Sun in the outer main-belt at a distance of 2.8–3.2 AU once every 5 years and 3 months (1,906 days). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.06 and an inclination of 11° with respect to the ecliptic. A first precovery was taken at Goethe Link Observatory in 1956, extending the body's observation arc by 14 years prior to its official discovery observation at Nauchnyj.\n\nIn December 1983, a rotational lightcurve of \"Angara\" was obtained from photometric observations by American astronomer Richard Binzel . Lightcurve analysis gave a well-define rotation period of 3.67 hours with a brightness amplitude of 0.52 magnitude, indicative of a non-spheroidal shape (). Binzel also classified the body as a stony S-type asteroid.\n\nAccording to the surveys carried out by the Japanese Akari satellite and NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer with its subsequent NEOWISE mission, \"Angara\" measures between 17.907 and 30.41 kilometers in diameter and its surface has an albedo between 0.055 and 0.1438. The \"Collaborative Asteroid Lightcurve Link\" assumes a standard albedo for stony Eoan asteroids of 0.14 – taken from the family's largest member and namesake, 221 Eos – and derives a diameter of 18.38 kilometers with an absolute magnitude of 11.43.\n\nThis minor planet was named for the over 1000-mile long Siberian Angara River that drains Lake Baikal. The approved naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center before November 1977 ().\n\n"}
{"id": "20926160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20926160", "title": "2nd meridian east", "text": "2nd meridian east\n\nThe meridian 2° east of Greenwich is a line of longitude that extends from the North Pole across the Arctic Ocean, the Atlantic Ocean, Europe, Africa, the Southern Ocean, and Antarctica to the South Pole.\n\nThe 2nd meridian east forms a great circle with the 178th meridian west.\n\nStarting at the North Pole and heading south to the South Pole, the 2nd meridian east passes through:\n"}
{"id": "43571361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43571361", "title": "3rd Field Artillery Regiment, RCA", "text": "3rd Field Artillery Regiment, RCA\n\nThe 3rd Field Artillery Regiment, RCA is a Canadian Army Reserve artillery regiment based in Saint John, New Brunswick. It is part of the 5th Canadian Division's 37 Canadian Brigade Group.\n\nThe Loyal Company of Artillery of the City of Saint John was formed on May 4, 1793 after passed its first \"Militia Act\" in 1792 in response to the outbreak of the French Revolutionary Wars. Since that historic founding The Loyal Company of Artillery formed the core of a body of militia artillery that has existed in the province right up to the present day in the form of 3rd Field Artillery Regiment, Royal Canadian Artillery. For much of the 20th century the Regiment proudly carried \"The Loyal Company\" designation as part of its title, perpetuating the connection to Canada's oldest artillery unit.The Loyal Company was the first of several militia artillery companies, renamed batteriesin the later nineteenth century, formed in for the defence of the colony's mainport and border towns from outside threat.\n\nWar of 1812\n\nThe threat of war with the United States proved real enough in 1812 that New Brunswick militia artillery detachments were activated as part of the 1st and 2nd Battalions of the to man newly built shore batteries in overlooking the Passamaquoddy Bay and the coast of disputed territory in what is now the State of. Throughout the War of 1812 other detachments of militia artillerymen built and manned defences alongside British regular gunners around .\n\nThe New Brunswick Regiment of Artillery\n\nSaint John's importance as the key all-season port of entry into British North America and then meant that the city garrison was always armed and provisioned for defense from the sea. Artillery was central to that defense, making the garrison a logical focal point for the training and equipping of 's militia artillery from across the province. In 1838 militia artillery companies throughout the province were unified as the New Brunswick Regiment of Artillery. The core and headquarters of this force was the original Loyal Company and the gun batteries defending the harbour. Indeed, the NB Regiment of Artillery was formed to man those vital defenses when the British regular artillery garrison marched west in response to the Rebellions of 1837 and 1838 in Upper and . That same year, the Regiment was called on to dispatch a troop of artillery to during the border dispute known as the War of 1838-39. Despite funding shortages, the Regiment continued to maintain a high standard of readiness and artillery skill-at-arms largely due to a continuation of the same volunteer spirit that inspired the Loyal Company of Artillery. That readiness was apparent in 1866 during the Fenian Raids when the Regiment manned the gun batteries around and along the border at . A decade later, they once again stood guard at the nation's coastal defenses during the 1878 war scare with . They also came to the aid of the civil powers during the Saint John Great Fire of 1877 using their specialist skills in handling high explosives to blow down walls for a fire break. These dramatic highlights as well as more routine mustering for summer training camps and ceremonial occasions established the Regiment of Artillery as a proud and well-known element of 's defence forces. The province of New Brunswick and the City of Saint John recognized the many contributions of this regiment when it celebrated the founding of the Loyal Company with a grand centennial ball in May 1893.\n\n20th Century Defending at Home and Abroad\n\nIn 1895, as part of a wave of Canadian defense modernization and national organization, the unit was first identified with its modern numerical designation and named the 3rd (New Brunswick) Regiment of Canadian Garrison Artillery. It counted among its members Lieutenant-Colonel C.W. Drury, considered to be the father of 's modern artillery. Drury commanded The Canadian Brigade of Artillery during the South African War, which included a troop of gunners from the Regiment's 89th Battery in Woodstock . LCol Drury was himself the son of LCol Richard Hayne, the Regiment's first commanding officer at the time of formation in 1838. So began the new 20th century reputation for excellence not only for manning defenses at home but also for raising well-trained artillerymen for overseas service.\n\nThe Great War, 1914-1918\n\nThe day after war broke out in August 1914 the Regiment barged its 4.7inch heavy guns to protect the mouth of the Saint John harbour . For the duration of the war, the Regiment stood on guard against the very real threat of German cruisers and submarines on Canada's east coast. The unit's heavy guns and experienced artillerymen also served to train thousands of volunteers from New Brunswick and eastern Canada for service in the Canadian Corps Heavy Artillery formed in 1916 in . The Regiment also contributed personnel to the 2nd Divisional Ammunition Column and the 1st Canadian Heavy Battery, among them future commanding officers LCol \"Harry\" Harrison and Major Cyrus Inches.\n\nThe Guns of Vimy, Passchendaele and the 100 Days\n\nIn 1916 volunteers from the Regiment travelled overseas as 4th and 6th Canadian Siege Batteries, firing their first shots in anger during the Battle of the Somme of the . There they perfected new techniques of long range counter-battery bombardment. The Canadian Corps Heavy Artillery, including 4th and 6th Siege Batteries gathered together for the first time with the whole of the Canadian Corps in the spring of 1917. That April they fired what has gone down in history as one of the most successful counter-battery bombardments in history, neutralizing over 80 percent of the German artillery and paving the way for Canadian infantrymen to take Vimy Ridge. From Vimy, 4th and 6th Canadian Siege Batteries were joined in 1918 by 3rd Brigade, Canadian Garrison Artillery, made up mostly of New Brunswick and Maritime gunners trained in Saint John. The Regiment became the core of the Canadian Corps Heavy Artillery during the Great War. New Brunswick heavy gunners supported the Corps in the difficult fighting for the final 100 Days Campaign. Our batteries played an especially important role in the dramatic Canadian victory at the Canal du Nord and Cambrai in September 1918. At the end of the Great War, surviving veterans came home to what became known as 3rd (New Brunswick) Coast Brigade, Royal Canadian Artillery, (The Loyal Company of Artillery). Many veterans stayed active in the interwar militia, keeping alive the specialized skill set of long range artillery.\n\nThe Second World War, 1939-1945\n\nIn 1939 3rd (New Brunswick) Coast Brigade, RCA, (The Loyal Company of Artillery) mobilized to prepare and man new heavy coastal gun batteries constructed around Saint John. The threat of German surface raiders and submarines was even greater in the Second World War than in the first, requiring much of the Regiment's attention. However, the requirements for trained artillerymen for overseas service led to the despatch of four batteries from the regiment. 89th Battery from Woodstock mustered as field artillery while 90th and 104th Batteries from Fredericton assembled as anti-tank units. All three were despatched to Italy, taking part in the Canadian victory at the Hitler Line that opened the liberation of Rome . 105th from Saint John also went overseas as an anti-tank unit, landing in Normandy and taking part in the climactic Battle of the Falaise Gap and The Battle of the Scheldt .\n\n1945-2012\n\nThe close of the Second World War ended direct threats to Canada's east coast by sea. The new threat to Canadian security in the early Cold War era came from Soviet bombers carrying nuclear weapons. In response the Regiment was re-organized as a medium anti-aircraft unit. The threat of aircraft gave way to ballistic missiles, and the Canadian Army once again organized for forward conventional defence in Europe as a leading member of the Treaty Organization. In that context, in 1962 the Regiment evolved into its present role as the 3rd Field Artillery Regiment (The Loyal Company), Royal Canadian Artillery. Since then the Regiment has continued in its same function since the Loyal Company was formed in 1793; to maintain a reserve force of trained artillerymen to defend at home and abroad. In recent decades, the most visible form of that mission has been to provide gunners and officers to augment regular force Royal Canadian Artillery batteries deployed for overseas service on peace-keeping, peace-enforcement and stability operations. In the last four decades hundreds of 3rd Field Artillery Regiment gunners have served in, Cyprus the Golan Heights, the Former Yugoslavia, Somolia, and most recently. the South Sudan A mission of particular pride was in support of the Canadian Forces's efforts in Afghanistan, where the requirement for Canadian soldiers with artillery and observer skills once again became paramount.The Loyal Company title was officially shorn as the Regiment's post-nominal title on 20 November 1975, apparently as part of the wider policy of separating the unified Canadian Forces from traditions and customs associated with . Nevertheless, the unit continues to perpetuate the link its 1793 foundation. After a loud appeal the Canadian Government restored the Loyal Company to the regiment's official name in 2012. Members of this regiment stand ready by their guns at your service. \n\n\n\nMembers of the regiment fought with the Canadian Task Forces that served in Afghanistan from 2002-2014.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "8238707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8238707", "title": "A70 road", "text": "A70 road\n\nThe A70 road is a major road in Scotland, United Kingdom . It runs a total of from Edinburgh to Ayr. It begins as Dalry Road at the Haymarket, Edinburgh junction with the A8, passing near but not through Lanark and ending as Miller Road in Ayr. Between Edinburgh city centre and Lanark it passes through the Edinburgh suburbs of Slateford, Juniper Green, Currie and Balerno; then Carnwath (where the A70 joins the A721 for three miles), Carstairs (where the two roads separate again), and Ravenstruther, while between Lanark and Ayr it passes through Hyndford Bridge, Rigside, Douglas, Muirkirk, Smallburn, Cumnock, Ochiltree, and Coylton.\n\nThe Scots name of the road is the \"Lang Whang\", a whang in the Scots tongue being a narrow strip of leather, usually a long leather bootlace. Much of the road is over elevated, desolate moorland; it ascends several times on its course to heights over 1000 feet above sea level. Because the wind enjoys an easy and uninterrupted passage over its length, in winter the road is frequently closed by snow, even by modest snowfalls. The road passes elevated farmland and grouse moor and presents extensive views over central Scotland to the north.\n\nAccording to tradition, Robert Burns stopped at the formerly thatched Wee Bush Inn in Carnwath on his way to Edinburgh: quite a likely event since the road is the most direct link between the Scottish capital and Burn's native Ayrshire. As the story has it, all Burns could think of to engrave on the inn window (a habit for which he had a reputation) was, \"Lang Whang, Lang Whang, Lang bloody Whang\", which neatly sums up the prospect for anybody facing the walk, ride or cycle along it, especially in winter. It was one of the roads along which the murderers Burke and Hare brought the cadavers of their victims for the Edinburgh Medical College to dissect.\n\nThe Collins 2012 Big Road Atlas shows the A70 as one of the five most dangerous roads in Scotland, based on the number of serious and fatal accidents between 2007 and 2009 in proportion to traffic. There are many extremely dangerous sections: particular blackspots are the crown of Auchinoon Brae on the approach to Harperigg Reservoir and the right angled bends at the east end of the reservoir. Any of the undulating and winding terrain between Balerno and Carnwath where oncoming cars can be concealed by dips in the road can be considered dangerous and there is barely a half-mile stretch of the Lang Whang between Balerno and Carnwath which has not witnessed a fatal accident over the past twenty years.\n\nThe A70 is purportedly the scene of one of Scotland's best-known UFO incidents, now known as 'the A70 incident'. Two men, Garry Wood and Colin Wright, were travelling one evening in 1992 from the outskirts of Edinburgh to the village of Tarbrax. Something evidently caused them to be delayed, for they arrived at their destination much later than expected. Several months later the pair underwent hypnotic regression and claimed to recall that they had been abducted, examined and communicated with by alien creatures.\n\nFrom Little Vantage on the A70 near Harperrig Reservoir, a footpath (called Thieves Road) heads south across the upper reaches of the Water of Leith and continues across moorland to a pass over the Pentland Hills called Cauldstane Slap and on to West Linton. This was part of a much longer drove road used in past centuries for transporting cattle south from the central belt and northern Scotland to Peebles and ultimately to the English markets, and for moving sheep north from West Linton market.\n"}
{"id": "38778799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38778799", "title": "Application of Islamic law by country", "text": "Application of Islamic law by country\n\nSince the early Islamic states of the eighth and ninth centuries, Islamic law (known in Arabic as sharia) always existed alongside other normative systems.\n\nWithin sharia, some crimes are known as \"hudud\", for which there are specific penalties specified by Islam. For example, according to some interpretations, adultery is punished by stoning, fornication and the consumption of alcohol by lashing, and theft by the amputation of limbs. Many predominately Muslim countries have not adopted \"hudud\" penalties in their criminal justice systems. The harshest penalties are enforced with varying levels of consistency, and although most Muslim-majority countries adopt various aspects of sharia, some countries may only adopt a few aspects, whereas others apply the entire sharia code. The use of flogging is more common compared to punishments like amputations.\n\nThe adoption and demand for sharia in the legal system of nations with significant Muslim-minorities is an active topic of international debate. Introducing sharia as the law of the land in Muslim-majority nations has been described as \"a longstanding goal for Islamist movements\", and attempts to introduce or expand sharia have been accompanied by controversy, violence, and even warfare. Most countries of the world do not recognize sharia; however, some that do recognize sharia use it as the basis for divorce, inheritance and other personal affairs of their Islamic population. And in countries where Islam is the predominant religion, sharia is fully instituted, including laws governing punishment for sin against Allah and Islam – not just divorce, inheritance and personal affairs.\n\nSharia law in this article means the moral code and religious law of Islam. It includes criminal, civil, personal, economic and all aspects of law as revealed in Quran and Hadiths; in its strictest and most historically coherent definition, sharia is considered the infallible law of Allah. The primary sources of sharia are the precepts set forth in the Quranic verses (ayahs), and the example set by the Islamic prophet Muhammad in the Sunnah. The scope of sharia includes Islamic law as interpreted by Islamic judges (qadis) with varying responsibilities for the religious leaders. For questions not directly addressed in the primary sources, sharia includes consensus of the religious scholars (\"ulama\") thought to embody the consensus of the Muslim Community (\"ijma\").\n\nThe legal systems of Muslim countries may be grouped as: mixed systems, classical sharia systems, and secular systems.\n\nClassical sharia systems are those where sharia plays a dominant role and is present in most areas of a nation's legal system. Iran, Saudi Arabia and Sudan are examples of classical sharia systems.\n\nSecular systems are those where sharia plays no role in the nation's legal system. Turkey is an example of a Muslim-majority nation with a secular system.\n\nMixed systems are those where sharia is not dominant, but plays a significant role in one or more areas of the nation's legal system. This is observed in majority of Muslim nations.\n\nArticle 222 of the Family Code of 1984 specifies sharia as the residuary source of laws. The sharia-derived family code treats women as minors under the legal guardianship of a husband or male relative.\n\nIt has a civil law system with influences from customary law.\n\nIt has a civil law system.\n\nIt has a mixed legal system of English common law, French civil law, and customary law.\n\nAfter gaining independence from France, Chad retained the French legal system.\n\nThe legal system is based on both Sharia and remnants of the French legal code. According to the article 229-7 of the Penal Code, any Muslim who makes use of products forbidden by Islamic law can be punished by imprisonment of up to six months.\n\nIt has a civil law system.\n\nThe Family Code is mainly derived from Islamic law and regulates personal status matters such as marriage, divorce, child custody and inheritance. Sharia does not apply to criminal law.\n\nArticle 2 of Egypt's 2014 Constitution declares the principles of Islamic sharia to be the main source of legislation. Egypt's law and enforcement system are in flux since its 2011 Revolution; however, the declaration of Sharia's primacy in Article 2 is a potential ground for unconstitutionality of any secular laws in Egyptian legal code. Sharia courts and qadis are run and licensed by the Ministry of Justice. The personal status law that regulates matters such as marriage, divorce and child custody is governed by sharia. In a family court, a woman’s testimony is worth half of a man’s testimony.\n\nSharia courts entertain cases dealing with marriage, inheritance and family of Muslims.\n\nSharia courts have jurisdiction on cases regarding marriage, divorce, maintenance, guardianship of minors (only if both parties are Muslims). Also included are cases concerning waqfs, gifts, succession, or wills, provided that donor is a Muslim or deceased was a Muslim at time of death.\n\nIt has a mixed legal system of French civil law and customary law.\n\nArticle 7 of the constitution identifies sharia as source of law in matters of personal status and inheritance among members of communities to which it applies.\n\nGhana is a secular state. Any other laws inconsistent with the national constitution are deemed null and void. No religious laws are applied in civil or criminal cases .\n\nIt has a mixed legal system of civil law and customary law.\n\nIt has a civil law system.\n\nIslamic law is applied by Kadhis' Courts where \"all the parties profess the Muslim religion\". Under article 170, section 5 of the constitution, the jurisdiction of Kadhis’ court is limited to matters relating to \"personal status, marriage, divorce or inheritance in proceedings in which all the parties profess the Muslim religion and submit to the jurisdiction of the Kadhi’s courts\".\n\nQaddafi merged civil and sharia courts in 1973. Civil courts now employ sharia judges who sit in regular courts of appeal and specialise in sharia appellate cases. The personal status laws are derived from Islamic law.\n\nIt has a civil law system influenced by customary law. In urban areas, positive law is common. In rural areas the customary law usually dominates. Local rural versions of sharia are the predominant sources for customary law. Article 25 in Title II of Mali's constitution declares it to be a secular state.\n\nThe Penal Code contains Sharia crimes such as heresy, apostasy, atheism, refusal to pray, adultery and alcohol consumption. Punishments include lapidation, amputation and flagellation.\n\nMuslim Personal Laws apply to Muslims. Polygamy is legal but the government will not officially recognize a polygamous marriage.\n\nIn 1956, a Code of Personal Status (Mudawana) was issued, based on dominant Maliki school of Sharia jurisprudence. Regional Sharia courts also hear personal status cases on appeal. In matters of family law, a woman’s testimony is worth only half of that of a man. With 2003 reforms of its criminal law, Article 222 of its new criminal code is derived from Islamic law; Articles 220–221, 268–272 of its criminal law similarly codify those activities as crimes that are prohibited under Sharia. Morocco adopted a new constitution in 2011; Article 41 of this constitution granted sole power to the Superior Council of the Ulemas to guide its laws through Fatwas from principles, precepts and designs of Islam.\n\nPaula Rainha states that, \"Mozambique’s legal system can be considered civil law based (at least the formal legal system) and legislation is the primary source of law.\"\n\nIt has not adopted any elements of Islamic law.\n\nSharia states: Until 1999, Islamic law applied primarily to civil matters, but twelve of Nigeria’s thirty-six states have since extended Sharia to criminal matters. Sharia courts can order amputations, and a few have been carried out. The twelve sharia states are Zamfara, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Niger, Sokoto and Yobe.\n\nBorno, Gombe and Yobe have not yet begun to apply their Sharia Penal Codes.\n\nThe rest of Nigeria has a mixed legal system of English common law and traditional law.\n\nThe legal system of Senegal is based on French civil law. The 1972 Family Code (\"Code de la famille\") is secular in nature. Islamic law is allowed by article 571 of the Family Code only in the case of intestate successions, and only if the person had demonstrated in life a wish that his succession would be regulated by Islamic law. Most succession cases are decided under this provision. There has been growing political attempts to introduce more sharia regulations.\n\nIt has a common law system influenced by customary law.\n\nSharia was adopted in 2009. Article 2 of Somali 2012 Constitution states no law can be enacted that is not compliant with the general principles and objectives of Sharia. Sharia currently influences all aspects of \"Xeer\" as well as Somalia's formal legal system.\n\nSharia has been declared the chief source of all legislation in Sudan's 1968, 1973 and 1998 Constitutions. In 2005, Sudan adopted an interim national constitution; it removed some references to Sharia, but included Sharia-derived criminal, civil and personal legal codes, as well as Sharia-mandated hudud punishments. The Criminal Act of 1991 prescribes punishments which include forty lashes for drinking alcohol, amputation of the right hand for theft of a certain value and stoning for adultery. However, there is no record of either any amputation or stoning ever having taken place in Sudan.\n\nIslamic law is applicable to Muslims under the Judicature and Applications of Laws Act, empowering courts to apply Islamic law to matters of succession in communities that generally follow Islamic law in matters of personal status and inheritance. Unlike mainland Tanzania, Zanzibar retains Islamic courts.\n\nIt has a customary law system.\n\nTunisia has a long secular tradition with a legal system based on French civil law. The Law of Personal Status, considered a reference in secular family law across the Arab world, bans polygamy and extrajudicial divorce. Sharia courts were abolished in 1956. Secular inheritance laws are indirectly based on Islamic jurisprudence, with religion never being mentioned in the Code of Personal Status; these laws accord to women half the share of property due to men.\n\nArticle 129 (1) (d) of the constitution allows the parliament to establish by law \"Qadhi’s courts for marriage, divorce, inheritance of property and guardianship\".\n\nSharia law is explicitly banned in Quebec, Canada, upheld by a unanimous vote against it in 2005 by the National Assembly of Quebec, while the province of Ontario allows family law disputes to be arbitrated only under Ontario law. \n\nThe country has a common law system.\n\nThe country has a civil law system.\n\nIn the United States, various states have outlawed sharia, or passed some form of ballot measure which \"prohibits the states courts from considering foreign, international or religious law.\" these include Alabama, Arizona, Kansas, Louisiana, North Carolina, South Dakota and Tennessee.\n\nCriminal law in Afghanistan continues to be governed in large part by Islamic law. The Criminal Law of September 1976 codifies sharia, and retains punishments such as the stoning to death of adulterers. However virtually all courts, including the Supreme Court of Afghanistan, rely on Islamic law directly.\n\nThe government is declared to be secular in the constitution.\n\nArticle 2 of Bahrain's 2002 Constitution as originally adopted, as well as after February 2012 amendment, declares Islamic Sharia is a chief source of legislation. Four tiers of ordinary courts have jurisdiction over cases related to civil, administrative and criminal matters, with Court of Cassation the highest civil court in Bahrain; in all matters, the judges are required to resort to Sharia in case legislation is silent or unclear. Sharia courts handle personal status laws. A personal status law was codified in 2009 to regulate personal status matters. It applies only to Sunni Muslims; there is no codified personal status law for Shiites. In a Shari’a court a Muslim woman's testimony is worth half of that of a Muslim man.\n\nMarriage, divorce, alimony and property inheritance are regulated by Sharia for Muslims. The Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act, 1937 (XXVI of 1937) applies to Muslims in all matters relating to Family Affairs. Islamic family law is applied through the regular court system. There are no limitations on interfaith marriages.\n\nSharia courts decide personal status cases or cases relating to religious offences. Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah declared in 2011 his wish to establish Islamic criminal law as soon as possible. A new penal code enacted in May 2014 will eventually prescribe sharia punishments, including the severing of limbs for property crimes and death by stoning for adultery and homosexuality.\n\nThe Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act 1937 directs the application of Muslim Personal Law to Muslims in a number of different areas, mainly related to family law.\n\nAceh is the only part of Indonesia to apply Sharia in full. Islamic courts in Aceh had long handled cases of marriage, divorce and inheritance. After special autonomy legislation was passed in 2001, the reach of courts extend to criminal justice. Offences such as being alone with an unrelated member of the opposite gender, gambling and breaking Islamic dress rules can be punished with a public caning. In 2014, the provincial government of Aceh extended sharia's reach, enacting and enforcing sharia to apply it to non-Muslims as well.\n\nIn other parts of Indonesia, religious courts have jurisdiction over civil cases between Muslim spouses on matters concerning marriage, divorce, reconciliation, and alimony. The competence of religious courts is not exclusive, and parties can apply to District Courts for adjudication on basis of Roman Dutch law or local adat. Suharto’s New Order expanded the reach of Islamic law, first with the 1974 Marriage Act, which assigned jurisdiction over the marriage and divorce of Muslims to the Islamic courts (), and with the 1989 Religious Judicature Act, which elevated Islamic courts by making them a parallel legal system, equal to state courts and gave them jurisdiction over inheritance (\"wasiyyah\"), gifts (\"hibah\") and religious endowments. Muslim litigants could originally choose whether to have inheritance questions decided by the Islamic courts or by the civil courts, but a 2006 amendment eliminated this possibility; the same amendment gave Islamic courts new jurisdiction over property disputes, including financial and economic matters. Muslims seeking a divorce must also file their claim in Islamic courts. The Compilation of Islamic Law 1991 () regulates marriage, inheritance, and charitable trusts (wakaf). Islamic law falls outside the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. Since 2006, a number of districts have issued local ordinances based on sharia.\n\nArticle 167 of the constitution states that all judicial rulings must be based upon \"authoritative Islamic sources and authentic fatwa\". Book 2 of the Islamic Penal Code of Iran is entirely devoted to hudud punishments. Iranian application of sharia has been seen by scholars as highly flexible and directly contradicting traditional interpretations of the sharia.\n\nArticle 1 of Civil Code identifies Islamic law as a main source of legislation. The 1958 Code, made polygamy extremely difficult, granted child custody to the mother in case of divorce, prohibited repudiation and marriage under the age of 16. In 1995, Iraq introduced Sharia punishment for certain types of criminal offenses. Iraq's legal system is based on French civil law as well as Sunni and Jafari (Shi’ite) interpretations of Sharia. Article 41 of the constitution allows for personal status matters (such as marriage, divorce and inheritance) to be governed by the rules of each religious group. The article has not yet been put into effect, and a unified personal status law remains in place that builds on the 1959 personal status code.\n\nIslamic law is one of the sources of legislation for Muslim citizens. Islamic law is binding on personal law issues for Muslim citizens.\n\nJordan has Sharia courts and civil courts. Sharia courts have jurisdiction over personal status laws, cases concerning Diya (blood money in cases of crime where both parties are Muslims, or one is and both the Muslim and non-Muslim consent to Sharia court's jurisdiction), and matters pertaining to Islamic Waqfs. The Family Law in force is the Personal Status Law of 1976, which is based on Islamic law . In Sharia courts, the testimony of two women is equal to that of one man.\n\nIslamic law was in force up until early 1920. The 1995 constitution is not based on sharia.\n\nArticle 2 of Kuwait's constitution identifies Islamic Sharia as a main source of legislation. According to the United Nations, Kuwait's legal system is a mix of British common law, French civil law, Egyptian civil law and Islamic law. The sharia-based personal status law for Sunnis is based on the Maliki fiqh and for Shiites, their own school of Islam regulates personal status. Before a family court the testimony of a woman is worth half of that of a man. Kuwait blocks internet content prohibited by Sharia.\n\nIt has a civil law system. However converting a Muslim is a crime.\n\nLebanon's legal system is based on a combination of Civil Law, Islamic law and Ottoman laws. There are eighteen official religions in Lebanon, each with its own family law and religious courts. For the application of personal status laws, there are three separate sections: Sunni, Shia and non-Muslim. The Law of 16 July 1962 declares that Islamic law governs personal status laws of Muslims, with Sunni and Ja'afari Shia jurisdiction of Islamic law.\n\nSchedule 9 of Malaysian constitution recognizes Islamic law as a state subject; in other words, the states of Malaysia have the power to enact and enforce sharia. Islamic criminal law statutes have been passed at the state level in Terengganu, Kelantan and Perlis, but as of 2014 none of these laws have been implemented, as they contravene the Federal Constitution. In 2007, Malaysia's Federal court ruled that apostasy matter lay \"within the exclusive jurisdiction of Sharia Courts\". Malaysian Muslims can be sentenced to caning for such offences as drinking beer, and adultery. Several sharia crimes, such as \"khalwat\" (close proximity of unmarried man and woman) are punishable only in Sharia courts of Malaysia. Publishing an Islamic book that is different from official Malaysian version, without permission, is a crime in some states. Other sharia-based criminal laws were enacted with \"Syariah Criminal Offences (Federal Territory) Act of 1997\". Muslims are bound by Sharia on personal matters, while members of other faiths follow civil law. Muslims are required to follow Islamic law in family, property and religious matters. In 1988 the constitution was amended to state that civil courts cannot hear matters that fall within the jurisdiction of Sharia courts.\n\nArticle 15 of the Act Number 1/81 (Penal Code) allows for hudud punishments. Article 156 of the constitution states that law includes the norms and provisions of sharia.\n\nIn Myanmar, sharia has been applied for personal status issues since colonial times, under section 13 of Burma Law Act, 1898. Court precedents also decided that Waqf matters are to be decided under Islamic law. The 1952 Myanmar Muslim Dissolution of Marriage Act states that a Muslim woman has the right to divorce her husband with appropriate cause. Matters relating to sharia family law are decided by civil courts.\n\nIslamic Sharia is the basis for legislation in Oman per Article 2 of its Constitution, and promulgated as Sultani Decree 101/1996. The Personal Statute (Family) Law issued by Royal Decree 97/32 codified provisions of Sharia. Sharia Court Departments within the civil court system are responsible for personal status matters. A 2008 law stipulates that the testimonies of men and women before a court are equal. Oman's criminal law is based on a combination of Sharia and English common law. Omani commercial law is largely based on Sharia; Article 5 of its Law of Commerce defaults to primacy of Sharia in cases of confusion, silence or conflict.\n\nUntil 1978 Islamic law was largely restricted to personal status issues. Zia ul Haq introduced Sharia courts and made far reaching changes in the criminal justice system. Articles 203a to 203j of the constitution establish a sharia court with the power to judge any law or government actions to be against Islam, and to review court cases for adherence to Islamic law. The penal code includes elements of sharia. Under article 5, section 2 of the Ordinance No. VII of 1979, whoever is guilty of zina, \"if he or she is a muhsan, be stoned to death at a public place; or if he or she is not a muhsan, be punished, at a public place, with whipping numbering one hundred stripes\". Under a 2006 law, rape cases can be heard under civil as well as Islamic law.\n\nThere are sharia trial and circuit trial courts in Mindanao, which is home to the country's significant Filipino Muslim minority. Sharia District Courts (SDCs) and Sharia Circuit Courts (SCCs) were created in 1977 through Presidential Decree 1083, which is also known as the Code of Muslim Personal Laws. Islamic law only applies to civil cases involving all Muslims nationwide. Cases are handled in the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao and a couple of Mindanao provinces that are not part of ARMM by both sharia district and circuit courts, organised into five sharia districts. Outside these areas, sharia-related cases are processed in civil courts under a session from the five sharia districts. All other cases, including criminal ones, are dealt with by local civil courts.\n\nSharia is the main source of Qatari legislation according to Qatar's Constitution. Islamic law is applied to laws pertaining to family law, inheritance, and several criminal acts (including adultery, robbery and murder). In some cases in Sharia-based family courts, a female's testimony is worth half a man's and in some cases a female witness is not accepted at all. Flogging is used in Qatar as a punishment for alcohol consumption or illicit sexual relations. Article 88 of Qatar's criminal code declares the punishment for adultery is 100 lashes. Adultery is punishable by death when a Muslim woman and a non-Muslim man are involved. In 2006, a Filipino woman was sentenced to 100 lashes for adultery. In 2012, six expatriates were sentenced to floggings of either 40 or 100 lashes. More recently in April 2013, a Muslim expatriate was sentenced to 40 lashes for alcohol consumption. In June 2014, a Muslim expatriate was sentenced to 40 lashes for consuming alcohol and driving under the influence. Judicial corporal punishment is common in Qatar due to the Hanbali interpretation of Islamic law. Article 1 of the Law No. 11 Of 2004 (Penal Code) allows for the application of \"Sharia provisions\" for the crimes of theft, adultery, defamation, drinking alcohol and apostasy if either the suspect or the victim is a Muslim.\n\nSaudi criminal law is based totally on sharia. No codified personal status law exists, which means that judges in courts rule based on their own interpretations of sharia. See Legal system of Saudi Arabia\n\nSharia courts may hear and determine actions in which all parties are Muslims or in which parties involved were married under Muslim law. Court has jurisdiction over cases related to marriage, divorce, betrothal, nullity of marriage, judicial separation, division of property on divorce, payment of dowry, maintenance, and muta.\n\nPrivate matters of Muslims are governed by Muslim Law, including marriage, divorce custody and maintenance. Muslim law principles have been codified in the Act No. 13 of 1951 Marriage and Divorce (Muslim) Act; Act No. 10 of 1931 Muslim Intestate Succession Ordinance and Act No. 51 of 1956 Muslim Mosques and Charitable Trusts or Wakfs Act.\n\nArticle 3 of the 1973 Syrian constitution declares Islamic jurisprudence one of Syria's main sources of legislation. The Personal Status Law 59 of 1953 (amended by Law 34 of 1975) is essentially a codified Islamic law. The Code of Personal Status is applied to Muslims by Sharia courts. In Sharia courts, a woman's testimony is worth only half of a man's.\n\nThe government is declared to be secular in the constitution. However converting a Muslim is a crime.\n\nIn Yala, Narathiwat, Pattani and Songkhla provinces, Islamic law is allowed for settling family and inheritance issues under a 1946 law.\n\nThe remaining provinces of Thailand have a civil law system with common law influences.\n\nAs part of Atatürk's Reforms, sharia was abolished in April 1924, with the \"Law Regarding the Abolition of Islamic Law Courts and Amendments Regarding the Court Organization\".\n\nArticle 11 of the constitution declares that religious groups are separate from the state and the state educational system. But the legal system is civil law with Islamic influences Also converting a Muslim is a crime.\n\nThe court system comprises Sharia courts and civil courts. Judicial corporal punishment is a legal form of punishment in UAE due to the Sharia courts. Flogging is used in UAE as a punishment for criminal offences such as adultery, premarital sex and prostitution. In most emirates, floggings of Muslims are frequent, especially for adultery, prostitution and drunkenness, with sentences ranging from 80 to 200 lashes. Between 2007 and 2013, many people were sentenced to 100 lashes. Moreover, in 2010 and 2012, several Muslims were sentenced to 80 lashes for alcohol consumption. Under UAE law, premarital sex is punishable by 100 lashes. \n\nStoning is a legal form of judicial punishment in UAE. In 2006, an expatriate was sentenced to death by stoning for committing adultery. Between 2009 and 2013, several people were sentenced to death by stoning. In May 2014, an Asian housemaid was sentenced to death by stoning in Abu Dhabi. Islamic law dictates the personal status law, which regulate matters such as marriage, divorce and child custody. The Sharia-based personal status law is applied to Muslims and sometimes non-Muslims. \n\nNon-Muslim expatriates are liable to Sharia rulings on marriage, divorce and child custody. Sharia courts have exclusive jurisdiction to hear family disputes, including matters involving divorce, inheritances, child custody, child abuse and guardianship of minors. Sharia courts may also hear appeals of certain criminal cases including rape, robbery, and related crimes. \n\nApostasy is a crime punishable by death in the UAE. UAE incorporates hudud crimes of Sharia into its Penal Code – apostasy being one of them. Article 1 and Article 66 of UAE's Penal Code requires hudud crimes to be punished with the death penalty, therefore apostasy is punishable by death in the UAE. Emirati women must receive permission from male guardian to remarry. The requirement is derived from Sharia, and has been federal law since 2005. \n\nIn all emirates, it is illegal for Muslim women to marry non-Muslims. In the UAE, a marriage union between a Muslim woman and non-Muslim man is punishable by law, since it is considered a form of \"fornication\".\n\nDubai and Ras Al Khaimah are not part of the federal judicial system.\n\nIt has a civil law system. However converting a Muslim is a crime.\n\nLaw 20/1992 regulates personal status. The constitution mentions sharia. Penal law provides for application of hadd penalties for certain crimes, although the extent of implementation is unclear. Article 263 of the 1994 penal code states that \"the adulterer and adulteress without suspicion or coercion are punished with whipping by one hundred strokes as a penalty if not married. [...] If the adulterer or the adulteress are married, they are punished by stoning them to death.\"\n\nIt has a civil law system.\n\nUnder certain conditions, Sharia rules on domestic relations are recognized by German courts based on private international law if no party has German citizenship. The outcome must not violate the principles of the German legal system according to the ordre public.\n\nMuslim populations of Western Thrace are subjected to Sharia, in issues related to family law, in the terms of the Treaty of Sevres. At November, 2017, the Greek government announced plans to reduce the power of islamic law, making sure that its use is optional.\n\nWestern Thrace: Under the 1923 Treaty of Lausanne, Sharia regulates marriage, divorce, custody of children and inheritance for Muslims who reside in Western Thrace; the treaty also allows for the establishment of auqaf. Muslim can alternatively choose a civil marriage and take their cases to civil court. The question of the use of Sharia in Greece is the subject of recent judicial review.\n\nRest of Greece: In other parts of Greece, all people are subjected exclusively to the provisions of the civil code, regardless of their religion.\n\nEngland and Wales: Sharia councils, which have no legal status and no legal jurisdiction, are consulted by many Muslims as a source of religious guidance and as an instance granting religious divorces.\n\nThe Egyptian personal status law of 1954 is applied. The personal status law is based on Islamic law and regulates matters related to inheritance, marriage, divorce and child custody. Shari’a courts hear cases related to personal status. The testimony of a woman is worth only half of that of a man in cases related to marriage, divorce and child custody.\n\nCivil law system.\n\nIt has a secular legal system with heavy influence of modern-day Turkish laws. Info about whether civil or common law applies remains very vague.\n\nLocal qadis (sharia judges) have jurisdiction over personal status and family law issues.\n\nIslamic and customary law apply.\n\n"}
{"id": "6183649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6183649", "title": "Charles Vélain", "text": "Charles Vélain\n\nCharles Vélain (16 May 1845 – 6 June 1925) was a French geologist and geographer. He was born in Château-Thierry.\n\nCharles Vélain's route to the field of geology was an unusual one. He was a student of pharmacy. He studied geology later at the Sorbonne. He was part of several explorations, during which he studied various geological factors that would later bring him fame. Vélain's major contributions in the field of geology were in petrography and physical geography. He was an authority on volcanism. His works in this particular field earned him numerous accolades such as the price-Delalande Guérineau of the French Academy of Sciences in 1877.\n\nCharles Vélain also enjoyed a successful career as a scholar. He worked as a lecturer for several years. He also authored several scientific papers and articles. He wrote mostly on geology, petrology and physical geography, with volcanoes remaining his subject of interest and expertise. Some of his works include 'Volcanoes' (Paris, 1884), 'The Earthquakes' (Paris, 1887), and 'Petrology conferences' (Paris, 1889).\n\nThe contributions of Charles Vélain were commemorated in 1963 by naming a peak in the Rally du Baty Peninsula as Mount Velain.\n"}
{"id": "15974732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15974732", "title": "Costa Chica of Guerrero", "text": "Costa Chica of Guerrero\n\nThe Costa Chica of Guerrero (Spanish for “small coast of Guerrero\") is an area along the south coast of the state of Guerrero, Mexico, extending from just south of Acapulco to the Oaxaca border. Geographically, it consists of part of the Sierra Madre del Sur, a strip of rolling hills that lowers to coastal plains to the Pacific Ocean. Various rivers here form large estuaries and lagoons that host various species of commercial fish. \n\nThis area is paired with the Costa Chica of Oaxaca as both have significant populations of Afro-Mexicans, who settled in the area as escaped slaves. The Afro-Mexican presence in Guerrero is strongest in this region, especially in the coastal municipalities from Marquelia to Cuajinicuilapa. Another important ethnic group is the Amuzgo, who are by far the largest indigenous ethnicity in the region, in the municipalities of Xochistlahuaca, Tlacoachistlahuaca and Ometepec. The Amuzgo, especially in Xochistlahuca, still wear traditional clothing and speak the Amuzgo language. Many women still weave cloth on backstrap looms. The region is one of the poorest in Mexico, with an economy based on subsistence agriculture and fishing, with some commerce, especially along Highway 200, which parallels the coast.\n\nThe Costa Chica of Guerrero is a coastal region beginning just southeast of Acapulco, and ending at the Oaxaca state border to the south. It is culturally paired with the Costa Chica of Oaxaca as both have significant populations of Afro-Mexicans, who often also have indigenous ancestry. \n\nThe Costa Chica is one of the seven regions of the state along with Zona Norte, Tierra Caliente, Centro, La Montaña, Acapulco and Costa Grande. The largest metropolitan area of the region is San Marcos . There are fifteen municipalities in the region:Ayutla, Azoyú, Copala, Cuautepec, Florencio Villarreal, Igualapa, Ometepec, San Luis Acatlán, San Marcos, Tecoanapa, Tlacoachistlahuaca, Xochistlahuaca, Cuajinicuilapa, Marquelia and Juchitán.\n\nMost of the terrain is dominated by the Sierra Madre del Sur as it parallels the coast. Between the mountains and the ocean is a narrow strip of hilly land called the Lomérios de la Vertiente del Pacífico and coastal plains called the Planicies Costeras. The region is filled with winding rivers which empty into the Pacific. The vegetation is deciduous low height tropical forest that loses most of its leaves during the dry season from November to May. Oceanside municipalities include San Marcos, Florencio Villarreal, Copala, Marquelia and Cuajinicuilapa. The three main lagoons are Tecomate, Chautengo and Tres Palos. The largest bay is the Bay of Puerto Marques next to Acapulco.\n\nThe area has a hot climate that reaches an average high temperature of 32C. The dry season extends from November to May and a rainy season from June to October. The area is prone to cyclones from June to October. In 1997, Hurricane Pauline devastated the Costa Chica in both Guerrero and Oaxaca with winds reaching between 166 and 200km /hr. The toll was 120 dead, and 8,700 other victims. The region was left with partially destroyed roads with left a number of communities physically isolated for days.\n\nThe Costa Chica (of both Guerrero and Oaxaca) is one of two zones in Mexico with significant Afro-Mexican populations, with the other being in the state of Veracruz. While Afro-Mexicans are found in most parts of the Costa Chica, the highest concentrations in Guerrero are found between Marquelia and Cuajicuilapa. Members of this group in the region are often identified by skin color. Some consider the classification to be racism, while others identify as primarily Afro-Mexican. Many also have indigenous or mestizo ancestry. While Africans are described as the “third root,” along with indigenous and Spanish people as part of Mexico heritage, this has often been \"forgotten” in the description of the “mestizaje” identity of Mexico, which stresses the mixture of European and indigenous peoples.\n\nAfter the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire, disease, war and overwork all but wiped out the native population. In a number of areas, the Spanish brought in African slaves to replace the lost labor. The first African slave brought to Mexico accompanied Hernán Cortés in 1519. During the colonial period, there was a significant African slave population. Large quantities of slaves were imported starting in the mid-1500s and by 16th and 17th centuries; about half of Mexico City’s population has at least some African heritage, as Mexico was the second-largest slave importer in the Americas, after Brazil. The first Africans brought to the Pacific coast arrived to Acapulco brought by Spanish galleons. Many later arrivals included escaped black slaves, called “\"cimarrones\"” who found refuge in the area. However, most local stories about how Africans arrived to the area have to do with local shipwrecks, whether it was a slave ship or not. All end with the idea that they found freedom and refuge in the communities along the coast. Due to the isolation of the area and their desire to keep their freedom, little was written about their history.\nThe historic Afro-Mexican communities were known for building round mud huts with thatched roofs, the design of which can be traced back to what are now Ghana and the Ivory Coast. Few of these traditional structures remain; over time, the people adopted local customs. Today, Afro-Mexican culture does not have its own language or dress. It is sometimes distinguished by body language and vocabulary, as well as a shared heritage. \n\nThe culture was featured in a documentary called \"Santa Negritud\" by La Maga Films sponsored by Susana Harp . The history and culture of these people is also the focus of a museum in Cuajinicuilapa, called the Museo de las Culturas Afromestizas .\n\nIndigenous peoples of the area include the Amuzgo, Mixtec, Tlapanec and Chatino. The Amuzgo are the most numerous by far, followed by the Mixtec, who are mostly found in Tlacoachistlahuaca. Historically the indigenous peoples associated the African slaves with the Spanish. The colonists sometimes used the slaves to execute indigenous people. Most indigenous and Afro Mexicans live in separate communities or separate neighborhoods of the same community. However, the separation is not absolute, as there have been marriages between indigenous and Afro Mexicans.\n\nThe Amuzgo live in the border region of Guerrero and Oaxaca, near the Pacific Coast. Municipalities with the largest Amuzgo population in order are Xochistlahuaca, Tlacoachistlahuaca, Ometepec in Guerrero and San Pedro Amuzgos in Oaxaca. Census figures put the Amuzgo speaking population at about 35,000, but ethnic studies put the number at about 50,000, with about eighty percent living in the state of Guerrero. The Amuzgo language belongs to the Oto manguean family, in the Mixtec sub family. \n\nThe origin of the Amuzgo is unknown. One theory states that the group migrated to its current location from the north from the area of the Pánuco River. Another states that they migrated from South America. Amuzgo folklore states that they came from islands in the sea. The Amuzgo also populated the coast but Mixtec expansion, the Spanish conquest, and later African migration pushed them into the mountains. One interpretation of the name “Amuzgo” is from Nahuatl, meaning “place of books,” probably indicating that the region had administrative functions. The name of the language in Amuzgo is \"ñomnda\" (word of water). The name of the people is \"nnánncue\" (people in the middle).\n\nThere is important traditional textile production among the Amuzgos, along with ceramics, leather, cheese and piloncillo. Most surplus products are sold in Ometepec. Traditional weaving is done on a backstrap loom, and girls learn the process starting from when they are about six or seven years old. The most traditional garments are made from a local cotton called coyuche, which is grown, cleaned, spun, dyed then woven. The most notable and time consuming garment is the women’s huipil, which has at time, very complicated designs woven into it. A number of Amuzgo weavers have been recognized for their work including Florentina López de Jesús. Many Amuzgos in Guerrero still wear traditional garments, with men wearing loose white cotton pants and shirt and the women wearing a huipil and dress. However, those made with commercial cloth is becoming more common.\n\nArcheological excavation in the region has been spotty with only preliminary evaluation starting from the 1930s, so information on the pre Hispanic history of this area is limited. Sites have been identified in the municipalities of Azoyú, Juchitán, Marquelia, Ometepec, San Luis Acatlán and Tecoanapa. Highland sites include Piedra Labrada, Los Zapotales, La Mira, Arcelia del Progreso and Yoloxóchitl all above 650 meters above sea level. Hill sites include Capulín Chocolate, El Pericón, Tecuantepec, El Limón, Horcasitas, Chinantla, San Luis Acatlán and Zoyatlán. Those by the ocean are generally near the mouths of rivers and include Las Arenillas and El Alto. Horcasitas and San Luis Acatlán are notable because they are built on natural elevations to avoid seasonal flooding from the San Luis River. \n\nArcelia del Progreso, Marquelia and Yoloxóchitl show Olmec influence. Much of the region was part of a Mixtec province called Ayacatla, which had its capital in Igualapa. In addition to the four found today, there were other indigenous groups, such as the Yopenahuatlec in what is now Marquelia, but they disappeared over the colonial period as the indigenous population markedly declined.\n\nDuring the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire, Pedro de Alvarado conquered the area in 1522, founding the town of Acatlán the same year. In 1531, a Tlapanec uprising forced most of the Spanish residents to flee. During the rest of the 16th century, much of the indigenous population was decimated, primarily due to new infectious diseases carried by colonists; they also suffered from war and overwork. In Xochistlahuaca there were about 20,000 indigenous in 1522 but by 1582, only 200 survived.\nThe area was developed by colonists in the 16th century for ranching, and they imported slaves to help with the labor. They exported meat, hides and wool. Soon after, the area became inhabited by Africans and Afro-Mexicans. During the colonial period, the Spanish imported a total of about 200,000 African slaves from West Africa to Mexico over three centuries. Most were landed at Veracruz. Working on sugar plantations, in mines and in ranching, slaves who escaped migrated to the isolated Costa Chica region, where they found refuge. \n\nSpanish landholders gave them protection in return for cheap labor, mostly tending cattle and curing leather. Over time, there was significant interracial mixing among Europeans, indigenous and Africans. Colonial authorities required slaves to convert to Catholicism. But, in smaller communities such as San Nicolas and Colorado, many Afro-Mexicans continued to use traditional magical practices to cure illness and resolve problems, often combining them with Catholic practice. Xochistlahuaca became an administrative and religious center in 1563, which it was during the height of the Mixtec people. It has remained an important religious center to this day. \n\nIn 1813, José María Morelos y Pavón came through the region, entering from Oaxaca to take the area during the Mexican War of Independence on his way to Acapulco. At the end of the war, the region became part of the Capitanía General del Sur, with Vicente Guerrero, an Afro-Mexican, as its head. In 1824, the Ometepec area was part of the state of Puebla .\n\nIn 1878, the Casa Miller was founded in Cuajinicuilapa, which transformed the economy of the area. The enterprise consisted of a soap factory, the raising of cattle and the growing of cotton, on a total of about 125,000 hectares. Products were shipped from Tecoanapa to market. \n\nDuring the colonial period, the Amuzgo and other indigenous had their land taken from them and were forced to pay rent where they lived. They began to fight to take the land back in 1920, which resulted in the establishment of an Amuzgo ejido in 1933. Land redistribution in ejidos occurred in the 1930s. This ejido was recognized as the municipality of Xochistlahuaca in 1934.\n\nHighway 200, built through the region in the early 1960s, stimulated commercial development in the area, as it opened up transportation connections with other areas. With ease of travel, new residents were attracted to the region. Population growth precipitated the need to subdivide areas into new municipalities. Marquelia was made a municipality in 2002 and Juchitán became one in 2004.\n\nThe last major earthquake in the region occurred on 20 March 2012, and was 7.4 on the Richter scale. It was centered near Ometepec and was the strongest since the 1985 quake. It was preceded by at least 16 quakes of over 5.0 in the same spring. Municipalities in the region that suffered damage include Ometepec, Xochistlahuaca, Copala, Cruz Grande and Marquelia. Most of the serious damage from this quake occurred in the Costa Chica region, with over 900 homes made inhabitable.\n\nFrom the late 20th century to the present, crime has been a problem for the region. There has been a growing problem with drug trafficking, despite the increased presence of military and federal police. Most municipalities do not have the resources to police the very rural, mostly indigenous areas. Communities have developed various citizen patrols and justice systems, which mostly mete out community service as punishment. Most of these have been legally recognized by local authorities.\n\nDengue and rotovirus are relatively common health problems in the region, as in the rest of the state.\n\nThe Costa Chica has one of Mexico's unique music and dance traditions. Many of the songs and dances reflect the interethnic conflicts of the region over the centuries. One notable music and dance style is called “chilena,” characterized by a stomping dance with erotic movements with participants carrying handkerchiefs, part of Afro-Mexican culture. The songs have themes such as love, the environment, animals, politicians and religion. Another genre is called “artesa,” a type of fandango, which is performed in front of a type of an elongated wooden box fitted with a bull’s head. It is also called \"El Torito,\" which involves the use of a bull-shaped frame on the center dancer with others around him. While the music plays, various couple step up onto the box to dance on it with vigor. The dance has been interpreted as a way to gain a kind of vengeance as the bull-box represents the Spanish. \n\nAnother important folk dance is called \"Los Diablos\" (The Devils), which is performed by a group of men in masks with long beards. The dancers are “encouraged” by assistants wielding leather whips. This is performed on 31 October in preparation for the national holiday of the Day of the Dead. These devils represent the underworld. Other traditional dances of the region include 'La Tortuga,' 'Los Doce Pares de Francia' and 'La Conquista.' These dances feature characters such as Hernán Cortés, Cuauhtémoc, Moctezuma and even Charlemagne and Turkish horsemen.\n\nThe region has an active corrido or ballad tradition. One type of corrido simultaneously glorifies and chastises “hombres bragado” (“ballsy men”) who risk their lives, often with violence, to defend local notions of honor and glory.\n\nMagical practices, such as the use of amulets and more to cure sickness and other problems, are still found. These practices can be found particularly in very rural Afro-Mexican communities, such as San Nicolas and Colorado. Afro-mestiza culture does not have its own language and dress but it is distinguished by body language and vocabulary as well as a shared heritage. There have been efforts to strengthen and promote the African-descended culture of the Costa Chica. One of these is the establishment of the Museo de las Culturas Afromestizas .\n\nAs of 2000, about a quarter of the population of the Costa Chica region was illiterate. The municipality of Cuajinicuilapa having the highest rate at 30%. The government has worked for twenty years to try to improve education in the region.\n\nThe Costa Chica is characterized by high indices of socio-economic marginalization; it is one of the poorest regions in the state of Guerrero. Xochistlahuaca is the 4th-poorest municipality in Guerrero and the 16th-poorest in Mexico. Only 16% of homes have running water and drainage, and only 15% use gas for cooking. Only three percent of the population has access to government health care. Since the late 20th century, more men have migrated out of the region to find work, mostly in tourism centers in Guerrero, such as Acapulco, and some other states in Mexico. There is also some migration to the US, such as California, Chicago and North Carolina.\n\nThe main economic activities are agriculture, livestock and fishing, with corn being the most important crop, grown by households for their own consumption. One cash crop is hibiscus, which is sold locally and nationally, and another is sesame seed. Other common crops are coconut, mango, and some watermelon. In Xochistlahuaca and Tlacoachistlahuaca, the economy is based on agriculture. There is a small but growing commercialization of dairy products such as cheese to outside municipalities. Commerce in this area has been helped by the 1995 construction of highway linking Xochistlahuaca and Tlacoachistlahuaca with the regional commercial center of Ometepec. Marquelia has large expanses of coconut groves, whose fruit is mostly used to produce soap and oil.\n\nThere are fifteen main fishing communities, which capture various ocean and lagoon/estuary species. Thirteen of these are completely dependent on fishing, with San Marcos and Marquelia having other economic activities, such as commerce and services. Fishing communities are divided among those that principally fish in open ocean and those that fish in lagoons. Each community has at least one fishing cooperative. The fishing communities include San José Guatemala, Boca del Río, Colonia Juan Nepmuceno Álvarez, Barra de Copala, Marquilia, Playa La Bocana, Barra de Teconapa, Punta Maldonado, Nuevo Tecomulapa, Las Ramaditas, San Marcos, Pico del Monte and Las Peñas. The two locations with the most fishing activity area Barra de Tecoanapa and Punta Maldonado. \n\nTraditional fishermen on the Guerrero coast earn little and are marginalized socially and economically. But they also are exposed to global pressures on the fishing industry in both marketing their catch and fishing rights offshore. The growing tourism industry threatens commercial fishermen. Fishermen supplement what they make by fishing with agriculture (mostly corn) and some livestock. Despite this, it is still a valuable economic activity for the communities that depend on it. Between 2000 and 2003, 1,229 tons of fish and other ocean specimens were captured off the Costa Chica, with a value of just under 2 million dollars. Given the length of the coastline, this is considered low. Major species include huachinango (Lutjanus peru), rock oysters (Crossostrea virginensis), lisa (Mugel sp), bandera (Ariidae), jurel (Caranx caninus), pargo (lutjanus argentiventris) and others.\n\nSeventy percent of the fishermen belong to cooperatives. Fishermen work for themselves, selling to intermediaries. Fishing is limited to the ocean close to shore due to the small fiberglass motorboats used. Most fish is shipped to Acapulco, with lesser amounts to Chilpancingo, Tecpan, Chilapa and Tlapa.\n\nMost municipalities of the region are joined by Federal Highway 200, stretching from Acapulco to Pinotepa Nacional in Oaxaca. Most economic development, especially commerce, has taken place along this highway as well, mostly among mestizo inhabitants. Most other roads in the area are in poor condition, either because they are deteriorated or unpaved. During the rainy season, they can be impassable.\n\nSan Marcos, which is along Highway 200, is the region’s most important commercial center. It is followed by Ometepec.\n\nWhile the Costa Chica is generally unknown to tourists, the state government has worked to promote it. It has sunk cement blocks designed to allow the growth of coral to form artificial reefs and accompanying fish and shellfish. The reefs are intended to attract recreational divers. They also serve as breeding areas for the huauchinango fish, which is important for the Costa Chica. The artificial reefs have been placed off various points of the state: in the Costa Chica, about 300 have been placed in Marquelia and Copala. At Playa Ventura, the blocks also serve to break waves making the surf here gentler for swimmers. In the past the beaches of this area were considered dangerous for tourists but this is no longer the case. \n\nGenerally tourist facilities are very basic and rustic. Food service, generally under palapas, open-air restaurants with thatched roofs, is common, but accommodations are sparse. One change to encourage tourism was to replace many speed bumps on Highway 200 and other major roads with devices that make the car vibrate instead to control speed. These roads are now also regularly patrolled by the Mexican federal police, which has been trying to control an increased incidence of highway robbery.\nChautengo is a large lagoon in the Cruz Grande municipality. Most economic activity is based on fishing, but there are some palapas and food service at the Pico del Monte beach, which is next to where the lagoon opens to the sea. La Bocana is a long beach facing open ocean with a small navigable estuary where the Marquelia River empties into the Pacific Ocean. The area is filled with palapa restaurants as the beach is popular with locals. La Peñitas has two small bays facing the ocean, and one mostly closed off and protected by a strip of land. Accommodations in small bungalows is available along with restaurants. Barra de Tecoanapa is next to the mouth of the Quetzala River. It has beaches facing the ocean. Playa Ventura is in the municipality of Marquelia. This is a small bay facing open ocean with a long beach and medium waves. Unlike other beaches in the area, this is relatively developed with houses, restaurants and hotels made of cinderblock and concrete, painted in bright colors. Hotel services are basic and camping is permitted.\n\nPunta Maldonado is in the Cuajinicuilapa municipality. This is a small bay home to a fishing village. There is a couple of restaurants and two very modest hotels. The waves are gentle to moderate depending on the beach. This beach borders the state of Oaxaca. In Punta Maldonado, men go out to sea at night to fish, with women taking the catch to market in the morning. The area also produces rock lobsters just a few meters off shore. The small lighthouse is close to the Guerrero/Oaxaca border.\n\nNear Punta Maldonado is Tierra Colorada, which is dedicated to the growing of sesame seed and hibiscus. It lies on the Santo Domingo lagoon, which has a wide variety of fish and birds among its mangroves. Near this is the Barro del Pío, which attracts fishermen in certain seasons. The structures in this area are inhabited only during these seasons.\n"}
{"id": "44478866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44478866", "title": "Dolores-Guayaquil Megashear", "text": "Dolores-Guayaquil Megashear\n\nThe Dolores-Guayaquil Megashear () is a first-order shear zone and fault zone in Northern South America. The megashear runs from the Gulf of Guayaquil in southwestern Ecuador, through Colombia, to Dolores in Venezuela.\n\n"}
{"id": "45582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45582", "title": "Duchy of Schleswig", "text": "Duchy of Schleswig\n\nThe Duchy of Schleswig (; ; Low German: \"Sleswig\"; North Frisian: \"Slaswik\") was a duchy in Southern Jutland (\"Sønderjylland\") covering the area between about 60 km north and 70 km south of the current border between Germany and Denmark. The territory has been divided between the two countries since 1920, with Northern Schleswig in Denmark and Southern Schleswig in Germany. The region is also called Sleswick in English.\n\nThe area's traditional significance lies in the transfer of goods between the North Sea and the Baltic Sea, connecting the trade route through Russia with the trade routes along the Rhine and the Atlantic coast (see also Kiel Canal).\n\nRoman sources place the homeland of the tribe of Jutes north of the river Eider and that of the Angles south of it. The Angles in turn bordered the neighbouring Saxons. By the early Middle Ages, the region was inhabited by three groups:\n\nDuring the 14th century, the population on Schwansen began to speak Low German alongside Danish, but otherwise the ethno-linguistic borders remained remarkably stable until around 1800, with the exception of the population in the towns that became increasingly German from the 14th century onwards.\n\nDuring the early Viking Age, Haithabu – Scandinavia's biggest trading centre – was located in this region, which is also the location of the interlocking fortifications known as the \"Danewerk\" or \"Danevirke\". Its construction, and in particular its great expansion around 737, has been interpreted as an indication of the emergence of a unified Danish state. In May 1931, scientists of the National Museum of Denmark announced that they had unearthed eighteen Viking graves with the remains of eighteen men in them. The discovery came during excavations in Schleswig. The skeletons indicated that the men were bigger proportioned than twentieth-century Danish men. Each of the graves was laid out from east to west. Researchers surmised that the bodies were entombed in wooden coffins originally, but only the iron nails remained. Towards the end of the Early Middle Ages, Schleswig formed part of the historical Lands of Denmark as Denmark unified out of a number of petty chiefdoms in the 8th to 10th centuries in the wake of Viking expansion.\n\nThe southern boundary of Denmark in the region of the Eider River and the Danevirke was a source of continuous dispute. The Treaty of Heiligen was signed in 811 between the Danish King Hemming and Charlemagne, by which the border was established at the Eider. During the 10th century, there were several wars between East Francia and Denmark. In 1027, Conrad II and Canute the Great again fixed their mutual border at the Eider.\n\nIn 1115, King Niels created his nephew Canute Lavard – a son of his predecessor Eric I – Earl of Schleswig, a title used for only a short time before the recipient began to style himself Duke.\n\nIn the 1230s, Southern Jutland (the Duchy of Slesvig) was allotted as an appanage to Abel Valdemarsen, Canute's great-grandson, a younger son of Valdemar II of Denmark. Abel, having wrested the Danish throne to himself for a brief period, left his duchy to his sons and their successors, who pressed claims to the throne of Denmark for much of the next century, so that the Danish kings were at odds with their cousins, the dukes of Slesvig. Feuds and marital alliances brought the Abel dynasty into a close connection with the German Duchy of Holstein by the 15th century. The latter was a fief subordinate to the Holy Roman Empire, while Schleswig remained a Danish fief. These dual loyalties were to become a main root of the dispute between the German states and Denmark in the 19th century, when the ideas of romantic nationalism and the nation-state gained popular support.\n\nThe title of Duke of Schleswig was inherited in 1460 by the hereditary kings of Norway, who were also regularly elected kings of Denmark simultaneously, and their sons (unlike Denmark, which was not hereditary). This was an anomaly – a king holding a ducal title of which he as king was the fount and liege lord. The title and anomaly survived presumably because it was already co-regally held by the king's sons. Between 1544 and 1713/20, the ducal reign had become a condominium, with the royal House of Oldenburg and its cadet branch House of Holstein-Gottorp jointly holding the stake. A third branch in the condominium, the short-lived House of Haderslev, was already extinct in 1580 by the time of John the Elder.\n\nFollowing the Protestant Reformation, when Latin was replaced as the medium of church service by the vernacular languages, the diocese of Schleswig was divided and an autonomous archdeaconry of Haderslev created. On the west coast, the Danish diocese of Ribe ended about 5 km north of the present border. This created a new cultural dividing line in the duchy because German was used for church services and teaching in the diocese of Schleswig and Danish was used in the diocese of Ribe and the archdeaconry of Haderslev. This line corresponds remarkably closely with the present border.\n\nIn the 17th century a series of wars between Denmark and Sweden—which Denmark lost—devastated the region economically. However, the nobility responded with a new agricultural system that restored prosperity. In the period 1600 to 1800 the region experienced the growth of manorialism of the sort common in the rye-growing regions of eastern Germany. The manors were large holdings with the work done by feudal peasant farmers. They specialized in high quality dairy products. Feudal lordship was combined with technical modernization, and the distinction between unfree labour and paid work was often vague. The feudal system was gradually abolished in the late 18th century, starting with the crown lands in 1765 and later the estates of the nobility. In 1805 all serfdom was abolished and land tenure reforms allowed former peasants to own their own farms.\n\nFrom around 1800 to 1840, the Danish-speaking population on the Angeln peninsula between Schleswig and Flensburg began to switch to Low German and in the same period many North Frisians also switched to Low German. This linguistic change created a new de facto dividing line between German and Danish speakers north of Tønder and south of Flensburg.\nFrom around 1830, large segments of the population began to identify with either German or Danish nationality and mobilized politically. In Denmark, the National Liberal Party used the Schleswig Question as part of their agitation and demanded that the Duchy be incorporated into the Danish kingdom under the slogan \"Denmark to the Eider\". This caused a conflict between Denmark and the German states over Schleswig and Holstein, which led to the Schleswig-Holstein Question of the 19th century. When the National Liberals came to power in Denmark in 1848, it provoked an uprising of ethnic Germans who supported Schleswig's ties with Holstein. This led to the First War of Schleswig. Denmark was victorious and the Prussian troops were ordered to pull out of Schleswig and Holstein following the London Protocol of 1852.\n\nDenmark again attempted to integrate Schleswig by creating a new common constitution (the so-called November Constitution) for Denmark and Schleswig in 1863, but the German Confederation, led by Prussia and Austria, defeated the Danes in the Second War of Schleswig the following year. Prussia and Austria then assumed administration of Schleswig and Holstein respectively under the Gastein Convention of 14 August 1865. However, tensions between the two powers culminated in the Austro-Prussian War of 1866. In the Peace of Prague, the victorious Prussians annexed both Schleswig and Holstein, creating the province of Schleswig-Holstein. Provision for the cession of northern Schleswig to Denmark was made pending a popular vote in favour of this. In 1878, however, Austria went back on this provision, and Denmark recognized in a Treaty of 1907 with Germany that, by the agreement between Austria and Prussia, the frontier between Prussia and Denmark had finally been settled.\n\nThe Treaty of Versailles provided for plebiscites to determine the ownership of the region. Thus, two referenda were held in 1920, resulting in the partition of the region. Northern Schleswig voted by a majority of 75% to join Denmark, whereas Central Schleswig voted by a majority of 80% to remain part of Germany. In Southern Schleswig, no referendum was held, as the likely outcome was apparent. The name Southern Schleswig is now used for all of German Schleswig. This decision left substantial minorities on both sides of the new border.\n\nFollowing the Second World War, a substantial part of the German population in Southern Schleswig changed their nationality and declared themselves as Danish. This change was caused by a number of factors, most importantly the German defeat and an influx of a large number of refugees from eastern Germany, whose culture and appearance differed from the local Germans, who were mostly descendants of Danish families who had changed their nationality in the 19th century. The change created a temporary Danish majority in the region and a demand for a new referendum from the Danish population in South Schleswig and some Danish politicians, including prime minister Knud Kristensen. However, the majority in the Danish parliament refused to support a referendum in South Schleswig, fearing that the \"new Danes\" were not genuine in their change of nationality. This proved to be the case and, from 1948 the Danish population began to shrink again. By the early 1950s, it had nevertheless stabilised at a level four times higher than the pre-war number.\n\nIn the Copenhagen-Bonn declaration of 1955, West Germany (later Germany as a whole) and Denmark promised to uphold the rights of each other's minority population. Today, both parts co-operate as a Euroregion, despite a national border dividing the former duchy. As Denmark and Germany are both part of the Schengen Area, there are no controls at the border.\n\nIn the 19th century, there was a naming dispute concerning the use of \"Schleswig\" or \"Slesvig\" and \"Sønderjylland\" (Southern Jutland). Originally the duchy was called \"Sønderjylland\" (Southern Jutland) but in the late 14th century the name of the city Slesvig (now Schleswig) started to be used for the whole territory. The term \"Sønderjylland\" was hardly used between the 16th and 19th centuries, and in this period the name \"Schleswig\" had no special political connotations. But around 1830, some Danes started to re-introduce the archaic term Sønderjylland to emphasize the area's history before its association with Holstein and its connection with the rest of Jutland. Its revival and widespread use in the 19th century therefore had a clear Danish nationalist connotation of laying a claim to the territory and objecting to the German claims. \"Olsen's Map\", published by the Danish cartographer Olsen in the 1830s, used this term, arousing a storm of protests by the duchy's German inhabitants. Even though many Danish nationalists, such as the National Liberal ideologue and agitator Orla Lehmann, used the name \"Schleswig\", it began to assume a clear German nationalist character in the mid 19th century – especially when included in the combined term \"Schleswig-Holstein\". A central element of the German nationalistic claim was the insistence on Schleswig and Holstein being a single, indivisible entity. Since Holstein was legally part of the German Confederation, and ethnically entirely German with no Danish population, use of that name implied that both provinces should belong to Germany and that their connection with Denmark should be weakened or altogether severed. \n\nAfter the German conquest in 1864, the term Sønderjylland became increasingly dominant among the Danish population, even though most Danes still had no objection to the use of \"Schleswig\" as such (it is etymologically of Danish origin) and many of them still used it themselves in its Danish version \"Slesvig\". An example is the founding of De Nordslesvigske Landboforeninger (The North Schleswig Farmers Association). In 1866 Schleswig and Holstein were legally merged into the Prussian province of Schleswig-Holstein. \nThe naming dispute was resolved with the 1920 plebiscites and partition, each side applying its preferred name to the part of the territory remaining in its possession – though both terms can, in principle, still refer to the entire region. Northern Schleswig was, after the 1920 plebiscites, officially named the Southern Jutland districts (\"de sønderjyske landsdele\"), while Southern Schleswig then remained a part of the Prussian province, which became the German state of Schleswig-Holstein in 1946.\n\n"}
{"id": "2222853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2222853", "title": "East Australian Current", "text": "East Australian Current\n\nThe East Australian Current (EAC) is the southward western boundary current that is formed from the South Equatorial Current (SEC) crossing the Coral Sea and reaching the eastern coast of Australia. At around 15° S near the Australian coast the SEC divides forming the southward flow of the EAC. It is the largest ocean current close to the shores of Australia. The EAC reaches a maximum velocity at 30° S where its flow can reach 90 cm/s. As it flows southward it splits from the coast at around 31° to 32° S. By the time it reaches 33° S it begins to undergo a southward meander while another portion of the transport turns back northward in a tight recirculation. At this location the EAC reaches its maximum transport of nearly 35 Sv (35 billion liters per second). The majority of the EAC flow that does not recirculate will move eastward into the Tasman Front crossing the Tasman Sea just north of the cape of New Zealand. The remaining will flow south on the EAC Extension until it reaches the Antarctic Circumpolar Current. The Tasman Front transport is estimated at 13 Sv. The eastward movement of the EAC through the Tasman Front and reattaching to the coastline of New Zealand forms the East Auckland Current. The EAC also acts to transport tropical marine fauna to habitats in sub-tropical regions along the south east Australian coast.\n\nThe EAC is a surface current driven by winds over the South Pacific. During different parts of the year these winds control how the current behaves. The EAC starts on the west edge of the South Pacific gyre where it collects warm, nutrient poor water. As it skirts along the East Coast of Australia it carries a large amount of warm tropical water from the equator southward. This process is part of what allows the Great Barrier Reef to thrive, it keeps the east coast of Australia around 18 °C year round instead of dropping to 12 °C in the winter.\n\nThe current is very low in nutrients, however, it remains important for the marine ecosystem. The EAC removes heat from the tropics and releases it to the mid-latitude water and atmosphere. It does this by producing warm core eddies, which allow the Tasman Seas to have a large biodiversity. The most southern tip of the EAC can produce these Eddies by wind currents. As instabilities in the current develop due to a westward Tasman Front, the meander pinches off to form eddies at a rate of once or twice per year.\n\nThe EAC has nutrient poor water, however it does cause upwelling in places along the coast line. The Eddies produced cause an increase in vertical mixing within the Tasman Sea. The process of producing, moving, and destroying eddies causes the thermocline layer to mix with the surface layer, bringing some nutrients up to the surface. The EAC and its eddies frequently flow onto the continental shelf and inshore, influencing circulation patterns and increasing mixing. Eddies aren’t the only way the EAC brings nutrients to the surface. Features along the coast push the current further off shore and if there is a strong northerly wind, it will push the current even further off shore, allowing deep water to rise up the coast, bringing nutrients up to the surface.\n\nThe EAC experiences seasonally variations. It tends to be strongest in the summer, with an amplitude flow around 36.3 Sv. It is its weakest during the winter months flowing at a rate around 27.4 Sv. Over the past 50–60 years the EAC has shifted. The south Tasman Sea has become warmer and saltier from 1944-2002. This has resulted in the current strengthening and extending southward. This shift in the EAC flow past Tasmania is controlled the Southern Hemisphere subtropical ocean circulation. This trend is thought to be caused by changes in wind patterns due to ozone depletion over Australia. There is a strong consensus with climate models that this trend will continue to intensify and accelerate over the next 100 years. The current is predicted to increase greater than 20%, thanks to the increase in South Pacific winds.\n\nIn the 2003 Disney/Pixar animated film \"Finding Nemo\", the EAC is portrayed as a superhighway that fish and sea turtles use to travel down the east coast of Australia. The characters Marlin and Dory join a group of sea turtles in using the EAC to help them travel to Sydney Harbour. The basic premise of this storyline is correct. Every summer, thousands of fish are swept from the Great Barrier Reef to Sydney Harbour and further south , however, the Current is not nearly as rapid as depicted in the film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45542926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45542926", "title": "Evidence-based conservation", "text": "Evidence-based conservation\n\nEvidence-based conservation is the application of evidence in conservation management actions and policy making. It is defined as systematically assessing scientific information from published, peer-reviewed publications and texts, practitioners' experiences, independent expert assessment, and local and indigenous knowledge on a specific conservation topic. This includes assessing the current effectiveness of different management interventions, threats and emerging problems and economic factors.\n\nEvidence-based conservation was organized based on the observations that decision making in conservation was based on intuition and/ or practitioner experience often disregarding other forms of evidence of successes and failures (e.g. scientific information). This has led to costly and poor outcomes. Evidence-based conservation provides access to information that will support decision making through an evidence-based framework of “what works” in conservation \n\nEvidence based approach to conservation is based on evidence-based practice which started in medicine and later spread to nursing, education, psychology and other fields. Evidence for evidence based conservation is broadly produced and published in three forms: systematic reviews, synopsis and summaries.\n\nA systematic review consists of a non-subjective assessment of available data and evidence related to a management. Synthesizing results from different studies over different time periods, locations or sample sizes can reduce the bias present in individual studies. Systematic reviews differ from traditional reviews by being easily understood, peer reviewed and repeatable. Detailed protocols remain available for conducting a thorough, unbiased systematic review.\n\nPart of implementing an evidence-based conservation analysis requires generating a synopsis. This refers to the brief description of a single study or a systematic review. Synopses form the building blocks of summaries when collated across specific themes.\n\nA summary is broader than a synopsis and refers to the standardized description of results extracted from several studies or systematic reviews on a particular topic. Summaries are regularly updated as more information becomes available and are ideally generated through a rigorous review process.\n\nEvidence-based conservation is inspired by evidence-based medicine. Evidence-based conservation was first noted in the literature in 2000. Over the last decade, the methodology for generating systematic reviews (e.g. protocols, systematic maps) have been improved and standardized. In addition, several collaborative networks have been formed and two journals have been launched. The Collaboration for Environmental Evidence has a journal titled Environmental Evidence dedicated to the publication of systematic reviews, review protocols and systematic maps on impacts of human activity and the effectiveness of management interventions. It currently has centres located in Australia, Sweden, South Africa, Canada, France and the UK. The Conservation Evidence group has a journal titled Conservation Evidence that was launched in 2004 to document the effectiveness of conservation interventions. Conservation Evidence is a web-based database repository that systematizes and provides access to conservation efforts, programs, and research on the biodiversity and the environment based on high quality, reviewed publications. \n\nSince evidence-based conservation is based on the primary data on interventions, it is as good as the available data. Even when data are available, some authors have noted that evidence-based conservation may not be routinely used in decision making for management and conservation policy. Often there may be a disconnect between the science that is produced and the management interventions taken. Three reasons have been suggested for this in the literature: \n\nEvidence-based conservation has also been criticised in the past for ignoring traditional forms of knowledge and experience. However, the steps of evidence-based conservation can be designed to take traditional forms of knowledge also into consideration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "74263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74263", "title": "Frame of reference", "text": "Frame of reference\n\nIn physics, a frame of reference (or reference frame) consists of an abstract coordinate system and the set of physical reference points that uniquely fix (locate and orient) the coordinate system and standardize measurements.\n\nIn n dimensions, n+1 reference points are sufficient to fully define a reference frame. Using rectangular (Cartesian) coordinates, a reference frame may be defined with a reference point at the origin and a reference point at one unit distance along each of the n coordinate axes.\n\nIn Einsteinian relativity, reference frames are used to specify the relationship between a moving observer and the phenomenon or phenomena under observation. In this context, the phrase often becomes \"observational frame of reference\" (or \"observational reference frame\"), which implies that the observer is at rest in the frame, although not necessarily located at its origin. A relativistic reference frame includes (or implies) the coordinate time, which does not correspond across different frames moving relatively to each other. The situation thus differs from Galilean relativity, where all possible coordinate times are essentially equivalent.\n\nThe need to distinguish between the various meanings of \"frame of reference\" has led to a variety of terms. For example, sometimes the type of coordinate system is attached as a modifier, as in \"Cartesian frame of reference\". Sometimes the state of motion is emphasized, as in \"rotating frame of reference\". Sometimes the way it transforms to frames considered as related is emphasized as in \"Galilean frame of reference\". Sometimes frames are distinguished by the scale of their observations, as in \"macroscopic\" and \"microscopic frames of reference\".\n\nIn this article, the term \"observational frame of reference\" is used when emphasis is upon the \"state of motion\" rather than upon the coordinate choice or the character of the observations or observational apparatus. In this sense, an observational frame of reference allows study of the effect of motion upon an entire family of coordinate systems that could be attached to this frame. On the other hand, a \"coordinate system\" may be employed for many purposes where the state of motion is not the primary concern. For example, a coordinate system may be adopted to take advantage of the symmetry of a system. In a still broader perspective, the formulation of many problems in physics employs \"generalized coordinates\", \"normal modes\" or \"eigenvectors\", which are only indirectly related to space and time. It seems useful to divorce the various aspects of a reference frame for the discussion below. We therefore take observational frames of reference, coordinate systems, and observational equipment as independent concepts, separated as below:\n\n\n\nHere is a quotation applicable to moving observational frames formula_1 and various associated Euclidean three-space coordinate systems [\"R\", \"R′\", \"etc.\"]:\nand this on the utility of separating the notions of formula_1 and [\"R\", \"R′\", \"etc.\"]:\n\nand this, also on the distinction between formula_1 and [\"R\", \"R′\", \"etc.\"]:\n\nand from J. D. Norton:\n\nThe discussion is taken beyond simple space-time coordinate systems by Brading and Castellani. Extension to coordinate systems using generalized coordinates underlies the Hamiltonian and Lagrangian formulations of quantum field theory, classical relativistic mechanics, and quantum gravity.\n\nAlthough the term \"coordinate system\" is often used (particularly by physicists) in a nontechnical sense, the term \"coordinate system\" does have a precise meaning in mathematics, and sometimes that is what the physicist means as well.\n\nA coordinate system in mathematics is a facet of geometry or of algebra, in particular, a property of manifolds (for example, in physics, configuration spaces or phase spaces). The coordinates of a point r in an \"n\"-dimensional space are simply an ordered set of \"n\" numbers: \nIn a general Banach space, these numbers could be (for example) coefficients in a functional expansion like a Fourier series. In a physical problem, they could be spacetime coordinates or normal mode amplitudes. In a robot design, they could be angles of relative rotations, linear displacements, or deformations of joints. Here we will suppose these coordinates can be related to a Cartesian coordinate system by a set of functions:\n\nwhere \"x\", \"y\", \"z\", \"etc.\" are the \"n\" Cartesian coordinates of the point. Given these functions, coordinate surfaces are defined by the relations:\nThe intersection of these surfaces define coordinate lines. At any selected point, tangents to the intersecting coordinate lines at that point define a set of basis vectors {e, e, …, e} at that point. That is:\n\nwhich can be normalized to be of unit length. For more detail see curvilinear coordinates.\n\nCoordinate surfaces, coordinate lines, and basis vectors are components of a coordinate system. If the basis vectors are orthogonal at every point, the coordinate system is an orthogonal coordinate system.\n\nAn important aspect of a coordinate system is its metric tensor \"g\", which determines the arc length \"ds\" in the coordinate system in terms of its coordinates:\n\nwhere repeated indices are summed over.\n\nAs is apparent from these remarks, a coordinate system is a mathematical construct, part of an axiomatic system. There is no necessary connection between coordinate systems and physical motion (or any other aspect of reality). However, coordinate systems can include time as a coordinate, and can be used to describe motion. Thus, Lorentz transformations and Galilean transformations may be viewed as coordinate transformations.\n\nGeneral and specific topics of coordinate systems can be pursued following the See also links below.\n\nAn observational frame of reference, often referred to as a \"physical frame of reference\", a \"frame of reference\", or simply a \"frame\", is a physical concept related to an observer and the observer's state of motion. Here we adopt the view expressed by Kumar and Barve: an observational frame of reference is characterized \"only by its state of motion\". However, there is lack of unanimity on this point. In special relativity, the distinction is sometimes made between an \"observer\" and a \"frame\". According to this view, a \"frame\" is an \"observer\" plus a coordinate lattice constructed to be an orthonormal right-handed set of spacelike vectors perpendicular to a timelike vector. See Doran. This restricted view is not used here, and is not universally adopted even in discussions of relativity. In general relativity the use of general coordinate systems is common (see, for example, the Schwarzschild solution for the gravitational field outside an isolated sphere).\n\nThere are two types of observational reference frame: inertial and non-inertial. An inertial frame of reference is defined as one in which all laws of physics take on their simplest form. In special relativity these frames are related by Lorentz transformations, which are parametrized by rapidity. In Newtonian mechanics, a more restricted definition requires only that Newton's first law holds true; that is, a Newtonian inertial frame is one in which a free particle travels in a straight line at constant speed, or is at rest. These frames are related by Galilean transformations. These relativistic and Newtonian transformations are expressed in spaces of general dimension in terms of representations of the Poincaré group and of the Galilean group.\n\nIn contrast to the inertial frame, a non-inertial frame of reference is one in which fictitious forces must be invoked to explain observations. An example is an observational frame of reference centered at a point on the Earth's surface. This frame of reference orbits around the center of the Earth, which introduces the fictitious forces known as the Coriolis force, centrifugal force, and gravitational force. (All of these forces including gravity disappear in a truly inertial reference frame, which is one of free-fall.)\n\nA further aspect of a frame of reference is the role of the measurement apparatus (for example, clocks and rods) attached to the frame (see Norton quote above). This question is not addressed in this article, and is of particular interest in quantum mechanics, where the relation between observer and measurement is still under discussion (see measurement problem).\n\nIn physics experiments, the frame of reference in which the laboratory measurement devices are at rest is usually referred to as the laboratory frame or simply \"lab frame.\" An example would be the frame in which the detectors for a particle accelerator are at rest. The lab frame in some experiments is an inertial frame, but it is not required to be (for example the laboratory on the surface of the Earth in many physics experiments is not inertial). In particle physics experiments, it is often useful to transform energies and momenta of particles from the lab frame where they are measured, to the center of momentum frame \"COM frame\" in which calculations are sometimes simplified, since potentially all kinetic energy still present in the COM frame may be used for making new particles.\n\nIn this connection it may be noted that the clocks and rods often used to describe observers' measurement equipment in thought, in practice are replaced by a much more complicated and indirect metrology that is connected to the nature of the vacuum, and uses atomic clocks that operate according to the standard model and that must be corrected for gravitational time dilation. (See second, meter and kilogram).\n\nIn fact, Einstein felt that clocks and rods were merely expedient measuring devices and they should be replaced by more fundamental entities based upon, for example, atoms and molecules.\n\n\nConsider a situation common in everyday life. Two cars travel along a road, both moving at constant velocities. See Figure 1. At some particular moment, they are separated by 200 metres. The car in front is travelling at 22 metres per second and the car behind is travelling at 30 metres per second. If we want to find out how long it will take the second car to catch up with the first, there are three obvious \"frames of reference\" that we could choose.\n\nFirst, we could observe the two cars from the side of the road. We define our \"frame of reference\" \"S\" as follows. We stand on the side of the road and start a stop-clock at the exact moment that the second car passes us, which happens to be when they are a distance \"d\" = 200 m apart. Since neither of the cars is accelerating, we can determine their positions by the following formulas, where formula_12 is the position in meters of car one after time \"t\" in seconds and formula_13 is the position of car two after time \"t\".\n\nNotice that these formulas predict at \"t\" = 0 s the first car is 200 m down the road and the second car is right beside us, as expected. We want to find the time at which formula_15. Therefore, we set formula_15 and solve for formula_17, that is:\n\nAlternatively, we could choose a frame of reference \"S′\" situated in the first car. In this case, the first car is stationary and the second car is approaching from behind at a speed of . In order to catch up to the first car, it will take a time of , that is, 25 seconds, as before. Note how much easier the problem becomes by choosing a suitable frame of reference. The third possible frame of reference would be attached to the second car. That example resembles the case just discussed, except the second car is stationary and the first car moves backward towards it at 8 m / s.\n\nIt would have been possible to choose a rotating, accelerating frame of reference, moving in a complicated manner, but this would have served to complicate the problem unnecessarily. It is also necessary to note that one is able to convert measurements made in one coordinate system to another. For example, suppose that your watch is running five minutes fast compared to the local standard time. If you know that this is the case, when somebody asks you what time it is, you are able to deduct five minutes from the time displayed on your watch in order to obtain the correct time. The measurements that an observer makes about a system depend therefore on the observer's frame of reference (you might say that the bus arrived at 5 past three, when in fact it arrived at three).\n\nFor a simple example involving only the orientation of two observers, consider two people standing, facing each other on either side of a north-south street. See Figure 2. A car drives past them heading south. For the person facing east, the car was moving towards the right. However, for the person facing west, the car was moving toward the left. This discrepancy is because the two people used two different frames of reference from which to investigate this system.\n\nFor a more complex example involving observers in relative motion, consider Alfred, who is standing on the side of a road watching a car drive past him from left to right. In his frame of reference, Alfred defines the spot where he is standing as the origin, the road as the x-axis and the direction in front of him as the positive y-axis. To him, the car moves along the \"x\" axis with some velocity \"v\" in the positive x-direction. Alfred's frame of reference is considered an inertial frame of reference because he is not accelerating (ignoring effects such as Earth's rotation and gravity).\n\nNow consider Betsy, the person driving the car. Betsy, in choosing her frame of reference, defines her location as the origin, the direction to her right as the positive \"x\"-axis, and the direction in front of her as the positive \"y\"-axis. In this frame of reference, it is Betsy who is stationary and the world around her that is moving – for instance, as she drives past Alfred, she observes him moving with velocity \"v\" in the negative \"y\"-direction. If she is driving north, then north is the positive \"y\"-direction; if she turns east, east becomes the positive \"y\"-direction.\n\nFinally, as an example of non-inertial observers, assume Candace is accelerating her car. As she passes by him, Alfred measures her acceleration and finds it to be \"a\" in the negative x-direction. Assuming Candace's acceleration is constant, what acceleration does Betsy measure? If Betsy's velocity \"v\" is constant, she is in an inertial frame of reference, and she will find the acceleration to be the same as Alfred in her frame of reference, \"a\" in the negative \"y\"-direction. However, if she is accelerating at rate \"A\" in the negative \"y\"-direction (in other words, slowing down), she will find Candace's acceleration to be \"a′\" = \"a\" − \"A\" in the negative \"y\"-direction - a smaller value than Alfred has measured. Similarly, if she is accelerating at rate \"A\" in the positive y-direction (speeding up), she will observe Candace's acceleration as \"a′\" = \"a\" + \"A\" in the negative \"y\"-direction – a larger value than Alfred's measurement.\n\nFrames of reference are especially important in special relativity, because when a frame of reference is moving at some significant fraction of the speed of light, then the flow of time in that frame does not necessarily apply in another frame. The speed of light is considered to be the only true constant between moving frames of reference.\n\nIt is important to note some assumptions made above about the various inertial frames of reference. Newton, for instance, employed universal time, as explained by the following example. Suppose that you own two clocks, which both tick at exactly the same rate. You synchronize them so that they both display exactly the same time. The two clocks are now separated and one clock is on a fast moving train, traveling at constant velocity towards the other. According to Newton, these two clocks will still tick at the same rate and will both show the same time. Newton says that the rate of time as measured in one frame of reference should be the same as the rate of time in another. That is, there exists a \"universal\" time and all other times in all other frames of reference will run at the same rate as this universal time irrespective of their position and velocity. This concept of time and simultaneity was later generalized by Einstein in his special theory of relativity (1905) where he developed transformations between inertial frames of reference based upon the universal nature of physical laws and their economy of expression (Lorentz transformations).\n\nIt is also important to note that the definition of inertial reference frame can be extended beyond three-dimensional Euclidean space. Newton's assumed a Euclidean space, but general relativity uses a more general geometry. As an example of why this is important, let us consider the geometry of an ellipsoid. In this geometry, a \"free\" particle is defined as one at rest or traveling at constant speed on a geodesic path. Two free particles may begin at the same point on the surface, traveling with the same constant speed in different directions. After a length of time, the two particles collide at the opposite side of the ellipsoid. Both \"free\" particles traveled with a constant speed, satisfying the definition that no forces were acting. No acceleration occurred and so Newton's first law held true. This means that the particles were in inertial frames of reference. Since no forces were acting, it was the geometry of the situation which caused the two particles to meet each other again. In a similar way, it is now common to describe that we exist in a four-dimensional geometry known as spacetime. In this picture, the curvature of this 4D space is responsible for the way in which two bodies with mass are drawn together even if no forces are acting. This curvature of spacetime replaces the force known as gravity in Newtonian mechanics and special relativity.\n\nHere the relation between inertial and non-inertial observational frames of reference is considered. The basic difference between these frames is the need in non-inertial frames for fictitious forces, as described below.\n\nAn accelerated frame of reference is often delineated as being the \"primed\" frame, and all variables that are dependent on that frame are notated with primes, e.g. \"x′\", \"y′\", \"a′\".\n\nThe vector from the origin of an inertial reference frame to the origin of an accelerated reference frame is commonly notated as R. Given a point of interest that exists in both frames, the vector from the inertial origin to the point is called r, and the vector from the accelerated origin to the point is called r′.\nFrom the geometry of the situation, we get\nTaking the first and second derivatives of this with respect to time, we obtain\nwhere V and A are the velocity and acceleration of the accelerated system with respect to the inertial system and v and a are the velocity and acceleration of the point of interest with respect to the inertial frame.\n\nThese equations allow transformations between the two coordinate systems; for example, we can now write Newton's second law as\n\nWhen there is accelerated motion due to a force being exerted there is manifestation of inertia. If an electric car designed to recharge its battery system when decelerating is switched to braking, the batteries are recharged, illustrating the physical strength of manifestation of inertia. However, the manifestation of inertia does not prevent acceleration (or deceleration), for manifestation of inertia occurs in response to change in velocity due to a force. Seen from the perspective of a rotating frame of reference the manifestation of inertia appears to exert a force (either in centrifugal direction, or in a direction orthogonal to an object's motion, the Coriolis effect).\n\nA common sort of accelerated reference frame is a frame that is both rotating and translating (an example is a frame of reference attached to a CD which is playing while the player is carried). This arrangement leads to the equation (see Fictitious force for a derivation):\n\nor, to solve for the acceleration in the accelerated frame,\n\nMultiplying through by the mass \"m\" gives\nwhere\n\n\n"}
{"id": "868950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=868950", "title": "ISO 3166-2:GR", "text": "ISO 3166-2:GR\n\nISO 3166-2:GR is the entry for Greece in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Greece, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for two levels of subdivisions:\n\nThe departments (also called prefectures) were abolished in 2011, and were replaced approximately by regional units. The regional units were deleted from the entry in 2016.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Greece. The second part is either of the following:\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\nThe following changes to the entry are listed on ISO's online catalogue, the Online Browsing Platform:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19024430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19024430", "title": "Index of South Korea-related articles", "text": "Index of South Korea-related articles\n\nThis page list topics related to South Korea.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "238040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238040", "title": "Ingria", "text": "Ingria\n\nHistorical Ingria ( or '; , \"Ingriya\", , \"Izhora\", or , \"Ingermanlandiya\"; ; or ') is the geographical area located along the southern shore of the Gulf of Finland, bordered by Lake Ladoga on the Karelian Isthmus in the north and by the River Narva on the border with Estonia in the west.\n\nThe Orthodox Izhorians, along with the Votes, are the indigenous people of historical Ingria. With the consolidation of the Kievan Rus and the expansion of the Republic of Novgorod north, the indigenous Ingrians became Greek Orthodox. Ingria became a province of Sweden in the Treaty of Stolbovo in 1617 that ended the Ingrian War, fought between Sweden and Russia. After the Swedish conquest of the area in 1617 the Ingrian Finns, descendants of 17th-century Lutheran emigrants from present-day Finland, became the majority in Ingria. In 1710, following a Russian conquest, Ingria was designated as the Province of St. Petersburg. In the Treaty of Nystad (1721), Sweden formally ceded Ingria to Russia. In 1927 the Soviet authorities designated the area as Leningrad Province. Deportations of the Ingrian Finns started in late 1920s, and Russification was nearly complete by the 1940s. , Ingria forms the northwestern anchor of Russia—its \"window\" on the Baltic Sea—with Saint Petersburg as its centre.\n\nIngria as a whole never formed a separate state (compare however North Ingria); the Ingrians, understood as the inhabitants of Ingria regardless of ethnicity, can hardly be said to have been a nation, although the Soviet Union recognized their \"nationality\"; as an ethnic group, the Ingrians proper, Izhorians, are close to extinction together with their language. This notwithstanding, many people still recognize their Ingrian heritage.\n\nHistoric Ingria covers approximately the same area as the Gatchinsky, Kingiseppsky, Kirovsky, Lomonosovsky, Tosnensky, Volosovsky and Vsevolozhsky districts of modern Leningrad Oblast as well as the city of Saint Petersburg.\n\nIn the Viking era (late Iron Age), from the 750s onwards, Ladoga served as a bridgehead on the Varangian trade route to Eastern Europe. A Varangian aristocracy developed that would ultimately rule over Novgorod and Kievan Rus'. In the 860s, the warring Finnic and Slavic tribes rebelled under Vadim the Bold, but later asked the Varangians under Rurik to return and to put an end to the recurring conflicts between them.\n\nThe Swedes referred to the ancient Novgorodian land of Vod as \"Ingermanland\", Latinized to \"Ingria\". Folk etymology traces its name to Ingegerd Olofsdotter, the daughter of the Swedish king Olof Skötkonung (995–1022). Upon her marriage to Yaroslav I the Wise, Grand Prince of Novgorod and Kiev, in 1019, she received the lands around Ladoga as a marriage gift. They were administered by Swedish jarls, such as Ragnvald Ulfsson, under the sovereignty of the Novgorod Republic.\n\nIn the 12th century, Western Ingria was absorbed by the Republic. There followed centuries of frequent wars, chiefly between Novgorod and Sweden, and occasionally involving Denmark and Teutonic Knights as well. The Teutonic Knights established a stronghold in the town of Narva, followed by the Russian castle Ivangorod on the opposite side of the Narva River in 1492.\n\nAlthough Sweden and Novgorod had fought for the Ingrian lands more or less since the Great Schism of 1054, the first actual attempt to establish Swedish dominion in Ingria appears to date from the early 14th century, when Sweden first founded the settlement of Viborg in Karelia and then the fortress Landskrona (built in 1299 or 1300) at the confluence of the Ohta and Neva rivers. However, Novgorod re-conquered Landskrona in 1301 and destroyed it. Ingria eventually became a Swedish dominion in the 1580s, but the Treaty of Teusina (1595) returned it to Russia in 1595. Russia in its turn ceded Ingria to Sweden in the Treaty of Stolbova (1617) after the Ingrian War of 1610-1617. Sweden's interest in the territory was mainly strategic: the area served as a buffer zone against Russian attacks on the Karelian Isthmus and on present-day Finland, then the eastern half of the Swedish realm; and Russian Baltic trade had to pass through Swedish territory. The townships of Ivangorod, Jama (now Kingisepp), Caporie (now Koporye) and Nöteborg (now Shlisselburg) became the centres of the four Ingrian counties (slottslän), and consisted of citadels, in the vicinity of which were small boroughs called \"hakelverk\" - before the wars of the 1650s mainly inhabited by Russian townspeople. The degree to which Ingria became the destination for Swedish deportees has often been exaggerated.\n\nIngria remained sparsely populated. In 1664 the total population amounted to 15,000. Swedish attempts to introduce Lutheranism, which accelerated after an initial period of relative religious tolerance,\nmet with repugnance on the part of the majority of the Orthodox peasantry, who were obliged to attend Lutheran services; converts were promised grants and tax reductions, but Lutheran gains were mostly due to voluntary resettlements by Finns from Savonia and Finnish Karelia (mostly from Äyräpää).\nThe proportion of Lutheran Finns in Ingria (Ingrian Finns) comprised 41.1% in 1656, 53.2% in 1661, 55.2% in 1666, 56.9% in 1671 and 73.8% in 1695, the remainder being Russians, Izhorians and Votes. Ingermanland was to a considerable extent enfiefed to noble military and state officials, who brought their own Lutheran servants and workmen. However, a small number of Russian Orthodox churches remained in use until the very end of the Swedish dominion, and the forceful conversion of ethnic Russian Orthodox forbidden by law.\n\nNyen became the main trading centre of Ingria, especially after Ivangorod dwindled, and in 1642 it was made the administrative centre of the province. In 1656 a Russian attack badly damaged the town, and the administrative centre moved to Narva.\n\nIn the early 18th century the area was reconquered by Russia in the Great Northern War after having been in Swedish possession for about 100 years. Near the location of the Swedish town Nyen, close to the Neva river's estuary at the Gulf of Finland, the new Russian capital Saint Petersburg was founded in 1703.\n\nPeter the Great raised Ingria to the status of a duchy with Prince Menshikov as its first (and last) duke. In 1708, Ingria was designated a governorate (Ingermanland Governorate in 1708–1710, Saint Petersburg Governorate in 1710–1914, Petrograd Governorate in 1914–1924, Leningrad Governorate in 1924–1927).\n\nIn 1870, printing started of the first Finnish-language newspaper in Ingria, \"Pietarin Sanomat\". Before that Ingria received newspapers mostly from Viborg. The first public library was opened in 1850 in Tyrö. The largest of the libraries, situated in Skuoritsa, had more than 2,000 volumes in the second half of the 19th century. In 1899 the first song festival in Ingria was held in Puutosti (Skuoritsa).\n\nBy 1897 (year of the Russian Empire Census) the number of Ingrian Finns had grown to 130,413, and by 1917 it had exceeded 140,000 (45,000 in Northern Ingria, 52,000 in Central (Eastern) Ingria and 30,000 in Western Ingria, the rest in Petrograd).\n\nFrom 1868 Estonians began to migrate to Ingria as well. In 1897 the number of\nEstonians inhabiting the Saint Petersburg Governorate reached 64,116 (12,238 of them in Saint Petersburg itself); by 1926 it had increased to 66,333 (15,847 of them in Leningrad).\n\nAs to Izhorians, in 1834 there were 17,800 of them, in 1897—21,000, in 1926—26,137. About 1000 Ingrians lived in the area ceded to Estonia under the Peace Treaty of Tartu (1920).\n\nUnder the Russian-Estonian Peace Treaty of Tartu of 1920, a small part of West Ingria became part of the Republic of Estonia. In contrast to other parts of Ingria, Finnish culture blossomed in this area. This was to a large extent due to the work of Leander Reijo (also Reijonen or Reiju) from Kullankylä on the new border between Estonia and the Soviet Union, who was called \"The King of Ingria\" by the Finnish press. Finnish schools and a Finnish newspaper were started. A church was built in Kallivieri in 1920 and by 1928 the parish had 1,300 people.\n\nIn 1945, after the Second World War, Estonian Ingria, then in the Soviet Union, became part of the Russian SFSR. Since Estonia reclaimed its independence in 1991, this territory has been disputed. As Russia does not recognize the Peace Treaty of Tartu, the area currently remains under Russian control.\n\nAfter the 1917 Bolshevik revolution in Russia, the Republic of North Ingria (\"Pohjois Inkeri\") declared its independence from Russia with the support of Finland and with the aim of incorporation into Finland. It ruled parts of Ingria from 1919 until 1920. With the Russian-Finnish Peace Treaty of Tartu it was re-integrated into Russia, but enjoyed a certain degree of autonomy.\n\nAt its height in the 1920s, there were about 300 Finnish language schools and 10 Finnish language newspapers in Ingria.\n\nThe First All-Union Census of the Soviet Union in 1926 recorded 114,831 Leningrad Finns, as Ingrian Finns were called. The 1926 census also showed that the Russian population of central Ingria outnumbered the Finnic peoples living there, but Ingrian Finns formed the majority in the districts along the Finnish border.\n\nIn the early 1930s the Izhorian language was taught in the schools of the Soikinsky Peninsula and the area around the mouth of the Luga River.\n\nIn 1928 collectivization of agriculture started in Ingria. To facilitate it, in 1929–1931, 18,000 people (4320 families), kulaks (independent peasants) from North Ingria, were deported to East Karelia, the Kola Peninsula as well as Kazakhstan and Central Asia.\n\nThe situation for the Ingrian Finns deteriorated further when in the fall of 1934 the Forbidden Border Zone along the western border of the Soviet Union was established, where entrance was forbidden without special permission issued by the NKVD. It was officially only 7.5 km deep initially, but along the Estonian border it extended to as much as 90 km. The zone was to be free of Finnic and some other peoples, who were considered politically unreliable. On 25 March 1935, Genrikh Yagoda authorized a large-scale deportation targeting Estonian, Latvian and Finnish kulaks and lishentsy residing in the border regions near Leningrad. About 7,000 people (2,000 families) were deported from Ingria to Kazakhstan, Central Asia and the Ural region. In May and June 1936 the entire Finnish population of the parishes of Valkeasaari, Lempaala, Vuole and Miikkulainen near the Finnish border, 20,000 people, were resettled to the areas around Cherepovets and Siberia in the next wave of deportations. In Ingria they were replaced with people from other parts of the Soviet Union, mostly Russians but also Ukrainians and Tatars.\n\nIn 1937 Lutheran churches and Finnish and Izhorian schools in Ingria were closed down and publications and radio broadcasting in Finnish and Izhorian were suspended.\n\nBoth Ingrian Finnish and Izhorian populations all but disappeared from Ingria during the Soviet period. 63,000 fled to Finland during World War II, and were required back by Stalin after the war. Most became victims of Soviet population transfers and many were executed as \"enemies of the people\". The remainder, including some post-Stalin returnees (it was not until 1956 that some of the deported were allowed to return to their villages), were outnumbered by Russian immigration.\n\nThe 1959 census recorded 1,062 Izhorians; in 1979 that number had fallen to 748, only 315 of them around the mouth of the Luga River and on the Soikinsky Peninsula. According to the Soviet census of 1989, there were 829 Izhorians, 449 of them in Russia (including other parts of the country) and 228 in Estonia.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, surviving Ingrian Finns and their Russified descendants have been allowed to emigrate to Finland. This has led to the birth of a sizable Russophone minority in Finland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55470619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55470619", "title": "Kutanja, Croatia", "text": "Kutanja, Croatia\n\nKutanja is a village in Croatia, under the Slunj township, in Karlovac County.\n"}
{"id": "29971067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29971067", "title": "Lakepa", "text": "Lakepa\n\nLakepa is one of the fourteen villages of Niue. Its population at the 2001 census was 88, and 51 in 2011.\n"}
{"id": "5644559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5644559", "title": "List of Colombian flags", "text": "List of Colombian flags\n\nThis is a list of flags used in Colombia. For more information about the national flag, visit the article \"Flag of Colombia\".\n\n"}
{"id": "14547162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14547162", "title": "List of Croatian mottos", "text": "List of Croatian mottos\n\nThis is a list of Croatian mottos. Croatia does not have an official motto.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32043050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32043050", "title": "List of North American metropolitan areas by population", "text": "List of North American metropolitan areas by population\n\nThis is a list of the fifty most populous metropolitan areas in North America as of 2015, the most recent year for which official census results, estimates or projections are available for every major metropolitan area in North America. Where available, it uses official definitions of metropolitan areas based on the concept of a single urban core and its immediate surroundings, as opposed to polycentric conurbations. Figures refer to mid-2015 populations except in the case of Mexican metropolitan areas, whose figures derive from the 2015 Intercensal Survey conducted by INEGI with a reference date of 15 March 2015. Havana has no official definition of its metropolitan area; the population within its city limits is given instead.\n\nSources: \n\n"}
{"id": "3334307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3334307", "title": "List of Rhodesian flags", "text": "List of Rhodesian flags\n\nThis is a list of flags used in Southern Rhodesia between 1890 and 1964 and Rhodesia between 1964 and 1979. The evolution of Southern Rhodesia from a British South African Company concern, to a British Colony, then to a member of a Federal Government, then to a self-declared state is evident by the different flags used.\n\nFor flags after these dates see Flags of Zimbabwe.\n"}
{"id": "25483239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25483239", "title": "List of United States rockets", "text": "List of United States rockets\n\nList of various rockets used by NASA and other American entities.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34736358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34736358", "title": "List of World Heritage sites in Armenia", "text": "List of World Heritage sites in Armenia\n\nThe United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Heritage sites are places of importance to cultural or natural heritage as described in the UNESCO World Heritage Convention, established in 1972. Following the breakup of Soviet Union, Armenia succeeded the convention on 5 September 1993.\n\n, Armenia has three sites on the list, with additional four on the tentative list (the official list of sites that may be considered for future submission). All three sites on the list are listed as cultural sites, as determined by the organization's selection criteria.\nUNESCO lists sites under ten criteria; each entry must meet at least one of the criteria. Criteria i through vi are cultural, whereas vii through x are natural.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38954284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38954284", "title": "List of countries by intentional death rate", "text": "List of countries by intentional death rate\n\nThe following list of intentional death rates by country has been obtained by adding the suicide rate from the World Health Organization to homicide rate from the UNODC United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) Study, in both cases as they appear at Wikipedia. Intentional deaths include homicide (intentional injury death of another) and suicide (intentional injury death of self).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39508311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39508311", "title": "List of museums in the Falkland Islands", "text": "List of museums in the Falkland Islands\n\nThis is a list of museums in the Falkland Islands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13389712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13389712", "title": "List of political parties in the Collectivity of Saint Martin", "text": "List of political parties in the Collectivity of Saint Martin\n\nPolitical parties in Saint-Martin lists political parties in Saint-Martin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3133837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3133837", "title": "M'zab", "text": "M'zab\n\nThe M'zab or Mzab, (Mozabite \"Aghlan\", ), is a natural region of the northern Sahara Desert in Ghardaïa Province, Algeria. It is located south of Algiers and there are approximately 360,000 inhabitants (2005 estimate).\n\nThe Mzab is a limestone plateau, centred on the Wad Mzab (\"Oued Mzab\") valley.\n\nThe Mozabites (\"At Mzab\") are a branch of a large Berber tribe, the Iznaten, which lived in large areas of middle southern Algeria. Many Tifinagh letters and symbols are engraved around the Mzab Valley.\n\nAfter the Muslim conquest of the Maghreb, the Mozabites became Muslims of the Mu'tazili school. After the fall of the Rostemid state, the Rostemid royal family with some of their citizens chose the Mzab Valley as their refuge. However, the Rostemids were Ibadi and sent a preacher (Abu Bakr an-Nafusi) who successfully converted the indigenous Mozabites.\n\nFrance occupied Algeria in 1830 and removed it from Ottoman domination. The M'zab was annexed to France only in 1882 and reverted to Algerian indigenous rule in summer 1962 upon its national independence. Ghardaia (Taghardait) is the main town and capital of the M'zab, while el-Ateuf (Tajnint) is the oldest settlement in the region. Beni Isguene (AT'isgen) is the most sacred Berber Islamic town. It prohibits all non-M'zabites from various sections of this town and all foreigners from spending the night within its walls. Melika (AT'mlichet) is populated by a kabily town named Mlikch which is untell now located near Bouira city, and it contains spacious cemeteries and a historical Mosque in the center of the K'sar, while Bounoura (AT'bounour) is a historical K'sar which contain Azwil palm grove, while El-Guerrara (Igraren) and Berriane (Iberguen) have been part of the M'zab since the 17th century.\n\nThere are five \"qsur\" \"walled villages\" (\"ksour\") located on rocky outcrops along the Wəd Mzab collectively known as \"the Pentapolis\". They are Ghardaïa \"Tagherdayt\", the principal settlement today; Beni Isguen \"At Isjen\" (Arabic: بني يزقن); Melika \"At Mlishet\"; Bounoura \"At Bunur\"; and El Atteuf \"Tajnint\". Adding the more recent settlements of Bérianne and El Guerrara, the \"Mzab Heptapolis\" is completed.\n\nThe combination of the functional purism of the Ibāḍī faith with the oasian way of life has led to a strict organization of land and space. Each citadel has a fortress-like mosque, whose minaret served as a watchtower. Houses of standard size and type were constructed in concentric circles around the mosque. The architecture of the M'zab settlements was designed for egalitarian communal living, with respect for family privacy. The Mzab building style is of Libyan-Phoenician type, more specifically of Berber style and has been replicated in other parts of the Sahara.\n\nIn the summer, the Mzabites migrated to 'summer citadels' centred on palm grove oases. This is one of the major oasis groups of the Sahara Desert, and is bounded by arid country known as chebka, crossed by dry river beds.\n\nThe Mzab Valley was listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1982, as an intact example of traditional human habitat perfectly adapted to the environment.\n\nThe insular nature of the Ibāḍiyya has preserved the area, and Ibāḍī Σezzaba continue to dominate the social life of the area. A federal council, \"Majlis Ammi Said\", unites representatives of the seven settlements as well as Ouargla, an ancient town located 200 km South-East of the Mzab valley. This council forms a federative body for religious, social and, increasingly, cultural matters. This religious federal council represents an “Islamic type of government” unique today.\n\nNumerous details of Ibāḍiyya social life are ruled by this Islamic government, such as the weight of gold given as a dowry to a woman (maximum 60 grams) to the length of wedding celebrations (three days). The council makes decisions on details such as dowries, celebrations, dress. It used to impose punishments including exile, and a form of \"tabriyya\" \"quarantine\", where the offender may not interact with his fellow citizens. However, with economic, social and political integration to Algeria, these sanctions are less effective, and tend to have more impact on women.\n\nThe local language of the Mzab is Mozabite (Tumẓabt), a branch of the Zenati group of Berber languages.\n\nGhardaya is also one of the four large military and administrative territories into which southern Algeria is divided.\n\nThe Mzabis are Ibadis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1763466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1763466", "title": "Møllehøj", "text": "Møllehøj\n\nMøllehøj is the highest \"natural\" point in Denmark at . \n\nMøllehøj is in the Ejerbjerge hills in Skanderborg municipality, very close to Ejer Bavnehøj. The summit is marked with a millstone, a remnant of Ejer mill which was situated on the hill from 1838 to 1917. The mill had eight sides and had an onion-shaped roof.\n\nNew measurements made in February 2005 showed that Møllehøj was higher than both Yding Skovhøj (172.66 m including a Bronze Age burial mound on its summit, 170.77 m without) in Horsens municipality or Ejer Bavnehøj which had both been thought higher. These two high points' natural heights are however respectively 9 and 51 cm lower than Møllehøj. It was officially recognised as Denmark's highest point in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "51718692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51718692", "title": "Nairobi–Malaba Road", "text": "Nairobi–Malaba Road\n\nThe Nairobi–Malaba Road, also Nairobi–Uganda Road or A104 Road (Kenya) is a major highway in Kenya, the largest economy in the East African Community. The road connects Nairobi, the capital and largest city in Kenya, with the border town of Malaba at the international border with Uganda.\n\nThe road starts in the city of Nairobi and takes a general north-westerly direction through Naivasha, Nakuru, Eldoret and Bungoma, to end at Malaba, a distance of approximately The coordinates of this road in the city of Eldoret, Uasin Gishu County are: 0°30'23.0\"N, 35°17'57.0\"E (Latitude:0.506389; Longitude:35.299167).\n\nThis road, together with the Nairobi–Mombasa Road, are part of \"The Great North Road\", which connects the landlocked countries of Burundi, Eastern DR Congo, Rwanda, Uganda and South Sudan to the Kenyan coast at Mombasa, on the Indian Ocean.\n\nDue to the volume of traffic, and the concentration of heavy-duty transport vehicles, the route is accident-prone, accounting for a large number of injuries and fatalities in the region. In 2013 alone, 3,179 people lost their lives in traffic accidents on the combined Mombasa–Malaba Road.\n\nThis road has the following major intersections, listed from east towards the west.\n\n\nThe following towns, listed from east towards west, are located along the highway:\n\n"}
{"id": "448247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=448247", "title": "Nampula", "text": "Nampula\n\nNampula is the capital city of Nampula Province in northeastern Mozambique. Also known as \"The Capital of the North\", Nampula is the centre of business in northern Mozambique. It has a few western-style hotels, restaurants and shopping centres. It also has a small international airport connecting to Nairobi in Kenya and Johannesburg in South Africa, and is a transport hub for local transport in northern Mozambique.\n\nWith a population of 743,125 (2017 census), it is the third largest city in Mozambique after Maputo and Matola. Nampula is also home to the Mozambique National Ethnographic Museum, several markets, cathedrals, mosques, universities and schools: both government and private. The city is also fairly diverse, with the native eMakhuwa population being the largest group but with a visible Indian, European, Chinese, and Lebanese population. \n\nThe name \"Nampula\" is said to be derived to the eMakhuwa word \"Whampula\", which according to legend refers to a tribal leader of the area in the past. \n\nNampula is divided into seven administrative zones, which are also subdivided into localities, as follows:\n\nEver since the establishment of the city, Nampula has had numerous mayors:\n\nNampula's dominant religions are Christianity and Islam. A small community of Hindus are also present in the city. Its Cathedral of Our Lady of Fatima is the archiepisciopal see of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Nampula.\n\nAbel Xavier, a Portuguese football player, and Carlos Queiroz, a Portuguese football manager formerly in charge of Real Madrid, were also from Nampula, at that time a city of the Portuguese Overseas Province of Mozambique.\n\nThe city is home to the Faculty of Health Science, Universidade Lurio. In 2009 a course in optometry was launched, the first of its kind in Mozambique. The course is supported through the Mozambique Eyecare Project. The other partners include the Dublin Institute of Technology, University of Ulster and Brien Holden Vision Institute.\n\nThere is a Portuguese international school, Escola Lusófona de Nampula. as well as four international English-medium schools, with the most notable being Stella Maris International School. \n\n\nThe city of Nampula lies in the centre of the province of Nampula and is surrounded by plains and rocky outcrops. The city lies amongst rolling hills and mountains, typical of the interior of northern Mozambique.\n"}
{"id": "1275913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1275913", "title": "National Council of Examiners for Engineering and Surveying", "text": "National Council of Examiners for Engineering and Surveying\n\nThe National Council of Examiners for Engineering and Surveying (NCEES) is an American non-profit organization dedicated to advancing professional licensure for engineers and surveyors. The Council’s members are the engineering and surveying licensure boards from all 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. These boards are divided into four geographic zones: Central, Northeast, Southern, Western. It is headquartered in Seneca, South Carolina, across Lake Hartwell from Clemson University.\n\nNCEES develops and scores the FE, PE, and SE exams for engineering licensure. The FE exam is generally the first step in the process to becoming a professional licensed engineer (P.E.). It is designed for recent graduates and students who are close to finishing an undergraduate engineering degree from an EAC/ABET- accredited program. The PE exam is designed to test for a minimum level of competency in a particular engineering discipline. It is designed for engineers who have gained a minimum of four years of work experience in their chosen engineering discipline. The SE exam is designed for engineers who practice in jurisdictions that license structural engineers separately from other professional engineers.\n\n\nNCEES also prepares examinations for land surveyor licensing in the United States. These exams consist of:\n\nThe NCEES Records program is designed for currently licensed engineers and surveyors who are looking for an easier and faster way to complete the licensure process in multiple jurisdictions, including all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. An established NCEES Record will include most—if not all—of the materials one needs to apply for comity licensure in additional states and territories.\n\nNCEES Credentials Evaluations is a service for state licensing boards and applicants. It is designed primarily for candidates who have earned their degrees outside the United States and are pursuing licensure through one of the member licensing boards of NCEES. \n\nNCEES exam preparation materials include questions that have been used on past exams and questions written to give examinees extra practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "2695016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2695016", "title": "Nepal Standard Time", "text": "Nepal Standard Time\n\nNepal Standard Time (NPT) is the time zone for Nepal. With a time offset from Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) of all over Nepal, it is one of only three time zones with a 45-minute offset from UTC. (The others are Chatham Island Standard Time, with an offset of , and the unofficial Australian Central Western Time, with an offset of .)\n\nNPT is an approximation of Kathmandu mean time, which is 5:41:16 ahead of UTC. The standard meridian passes through the peak of Gaurishankar mountain about 100 km east of Kathmandu.\n\n"}
{"id": "42370446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42370446", "title": "Ness Award", "text": "Ness Award\n\nThe Ness Award is an annual award of the Royal Geographical Society to travellers, particularly those who have successfully popularised Geography and the wider understanding of our world and its environments. It was established in 1953 and named after Mrs Patrick Ness (1881–1962), an intrepid and well-to-do traveller throughout Africa and the first female Fellow of the Society.\n\nMrs Patrick Ness was born Elizabeth Wilhelmina Miller in Brighton in 1881 and married Patrick Powell Ness in 1903. She accompanied her husband to Kenya before the First World War and then returned alone in 1920, when she made several epic journeys across the African and Asian continents. In 1923 she crossed the Syrian Desert, in 1927 she travelled from Khartoum to Nairobi and on via the Congo to the Cape, the first European woman to travel on Lake Kivu. She later wrote a book of her adventures entitled \"Two Thousand Miles in Two Continents\" \n\nSource: RGS\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51146366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51146366", "title": "Oka-Don Lowland", "text": "Oka-Don Lowland\n\nThe Oka-Don Lowlands () (also: Oka-Don Plain), is a flat plain in European Russia bounded on the north by the Oka River (and the Meshchera Lowlands), on the south by the Don River, on the west by the Central Russian Upland, and on the east by the Volga Upland. The area is part of the larger East European Plain. The terrain is flat, with altitude averaging 160 meters above sea level, and the rivers meander on broad floodplains. Agricultural use of the plain is high, mostly for grain growing - wheat, barley and rye. The plain provides a flat route south-north route of transportation, situated between uplands. Until a line of forts was built across the territory by the Russian government in the 1640s (the ), the plain was a route for Tatar invasion from the south.\n\nThe plain is about 250 km west-east, and 500 km north-south. The central and southern parts are sometimes called the \"Tambov plain\", and are mostly contained in Tambov Oblast. The lowlands also includes portions of Lipetsk Oblast on the west, Ryazan Oblast to the north, Penza Oblast to the east, and Voronezh Oblast to the south. The soil includes widespread chernozym (\"black earth\"), with more podzolic (\"under-ash\") soils towards the north and some sandy regions in the south.\n\nBecause it is flat, the major rivers meander on broad floodplains. The main river in the north is the Tsna, which runs north through the city of Tambov and into the Moksha River, a right tributary of the Oka in the Volga basin. In the south, the plain narrows along the Khopyor River, flowing south into the Don River, and the Medevista, which is also in the Don Basin. The floodplains can be up to 20 km in width, with up to three terraces.\n\nIn modern times, the plain is heavily developed for agriculture. The primary grains are wheat, barley and rye, with 'industrial' crops such as sunflower seeds, sugar beets, and potatoes. Before modern development, the plain was forb meadow-steppe, with forest groves of pine, oak, and black alder along the river banks. The Oka-Don lowlands include two federal-level nature reserves: the Voronina Nature Reserve in the southeast, and the Voronina Nature Reserve, both featuring forest-steppe habitat along rivers. \n"}
{"id": "16285612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16285612", "title": "Outline of Poland", "text": "Outline of Poland\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Poland:\n\nThe Republic of Poland is a sovereign country located in Central Europe. Poland is bordered by Germany to the west; the Czech Republic and Slovakia to the south; Ukraine, Belarus and Lithuania to the east; and the Baltic Sea and Kaliningrad Oblast, a Russian exclave, to the north. The total area of Poland is 312,679 km² (120,728 sq mi), making it the 69th largest country in the world and 9th in Europe. Poland has a population of over 38.5 million people, which makes it the 33rd most populous country in the world.\n\nThe establishment of a Polish state is often identified with the adoption of Christianity by its ruler Mieszko I in 966 (see Baptism of Poland), when the state covered territory similar to that of present-day Poland. Poland became a kingdom in 1025, and in 1569 it cemented a long association with the Grand Duchy of Lithuania by uniting to form the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. The Commonwealth collapsed in 1795, and its territory was partitioned among Prussia, Russia, and Austria. Poland regained its independence in 1918 after World War I but lost it again in World War II, occupied by Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union. Poland lost over six million citizens in World War II, and emerged several years later as a socialist republic within the Eastern Bloc under strong Soviet influence. In 1989 communist rule was overthrown and Poland became what is constitutionally known as the \"Third Polish Republic\". Poland is a unitary state made up of sixteen voivodeships (). Poland is also a member of the European Union, NATO and OECD.\n\n\nGeography of Poland\n\nMain: Environment of Poland\n\n\nRegions of Poland\n\nList of ecoregions in Poland\nAdministrative divisions of Poland\n\nProvinces of Poland\n\nMunicipalities of Poland\n\nDemographics of Poland\n\n\nGovernment of Poland\n\n\n\nCourt system of Poland\n\nForeign relations of Poland\n\nThe Republic of Poland is a member of:\n\nLaw of Poland\n\nMilitary of Poland\n\nLocal government in Poland\n\n\nHistory of Poland\n\nCulture of Poland\n\n\nSports in Poland\n\nEconomy of Poland\n\nTransport in Poland\n\nEducation in Poland\n\nHealth in Poland\n\nPoland\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16285883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16285883", "title": "Outline of Venezuela", "text": "Outline of Venezuela\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Venezuela:\n\nVenezuela – sovereign country located in northern South America. Venezuela comprises a continental mainland and numerous islands located off the Venezuelan coastline in the Caribbean Sea. The country borders Guyana to the east, Brazil to the south, and Colombia to the west. Trinidad and Tobago, Grenada, St. Lucia, Barbados, Curaçao, Bonaire, Aruba, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and the Leeward Antilles lie just north, off the Venezuelan coast. Falling within the tropics, Venezuela sits close to the equator, in the Northern Hemisphere. A former Spanish colony, which has been an independent republic since 1821, Venezuela holds territorial disputes with Guyana, largely concerning the Essequibo area, and with Colombia concerning the Gulf of Venezuela. In 1895, after the dispute over the Guyana border flared up, it was submitted to a neutral commission, which in 1899 decided it mostly in Guyana's favour. Today, the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is known widely for its petroleum industry, the environmental diversity of its territory, and its natural features. Venezuela is considered to be among the world's 17 most biodiverse countries.\n\n\nGeography of Venezuela\n\nEnvironment of Venezuela\n\n\nRegions of Venezuela\n\nList of ecoregions in Venezuela\n\nAdministrative divisions of Venezuela\n\nProvinces of Venezuela\n\nDistricts of Venezuela\n\nMunicipalities of Venezuela\n\nDemographics of Venezuela\n\nPolitics of Venezuela\n\nGovernment of Venezuela\nVenezuela's government has five branches.\n\n\n\nCourt system of Venezuela\n\n\n\nForeign relations of Venezuela\n\nThe Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is a member of:\n\nLaw of Venezuela\n\nMilitary of Venezuela\n\nLocal government in Venezuela\n\nHistory of Venezuela\n\n\n\n\nCulture of Venezuela\n\n\nSports in Venezuela\n\nEconomy of Venezuela\n\nEducation in Venezuela\n\nVenezuela\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1870337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1870337", "title": "Parish (administrative division)", "text": "Parish (administrative division)\n\nA parish is an administrative division used by several countries. In Ireland and all parts of the British Isles except Scotland and Wales it is known as a civil parish to distinguish it from the ecclesiastical parish.\n\nThe table below lists countries which use this administrative division:\n\n"}
{"id": "56591054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56591054", "title": "Patricia Daley", "text": "Patricia Daley\n\nPatricia O. Daley is a Jamaican human geographer and academic, specialising in forced migration, political ecology, and Africa. She is Professor of Human Geography of Africa at the University of Oxford and a Fellow of Jesus College, Oxford. \n\nDaley was born and brought up in rural Jamaica. At the age of 12, she emigrated to England. She attended school in Hackney, London, and as a teenager lived in the Pembury Estate. \n\nDaley was the first of her family to attend university, and studied at Middlesex Polytechnic, graduating with a Bachelor of Science (BSc) degree. She then undertook postgraduate studies at Goldsmith's College and the School of Oriental and African Studies, both part of the University of London, graduating with a Master of Arts degree and a Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE). She then moved to the University of Oxford to study for a Doctor of Philosophy (DPhil) degree. She completed her doctorate in 1989 with a thesis titled \"Refugees and underdevelopment in Africa: the case of Barundi refugees in Tanzania\".\n\nDaley previously taught at Dartmouth College, and Loughborough University. In 1996, she moved to the University of Oxford, where she was appointed University Lecturer in Human Geography and joined Pembroke College, Oxford. She is the first black woman to be appointed a lecturer at Oxford. She is now a Fellow of Jesus College, Oxford. She served Jesus College as Tutor for Women from 1998 to 2004, and as Tutor for Admissions from 1999 to 2002. She was the University Assessor for the 2015/2016 academic year. She was awarded a Title of Distinction as Professor of the Human Geography of Africa in September 2016.\n\nIn 2017, Daley was one 24 notable individuals chosen by the University of Oxford to have their portrait painted and displayed at the university: this was done in order to bring more diversity to the otherwise \"dead white males\" that hung in its walls.\n"}
{"id": "41816267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41816267", "title": "Seven Natural Wonders of Africa", "text": "Seven Natural Wonders of Africa\n\nThe Seven Natural Wonders of Africa was a competition where the seven were selected by voting on February 11, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "320832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=320832", "title": "Shōnan", "text": "Shōnan\n\nThe name \"Shonan\" of this Japanese region already existed in the 17th century, relative to Shigitatsu-an, according to Ōiso Town. \n\nDuring the 1880s, when the custom of swimming in the ocean was introduced into Japan, the \"Shonan\" region became a resort area for the politicians and rich people from Tokyo.\n\nIn postwar times, the Shōnan region gained prominence in Ishihara Shintaro's prize-winning 1955 novel, \"Taiyō no Kisetsu\" (\"Season of the Sun\"). The novel, which was also made into a popular movie, portrayed the hedonistic lifestyle of young sun-worshippers from elite families (\"taiyo-zoku\", the \"sun-tribe\"), who hung out on Shōnan beaches. Lying as it does on the edge of the Tokyo-Yokohama metropolitan area, the Shōnan region is nowadays a leading resort area, oriented to surfing, sailboating, and other water sports.\n\nThere are two theories in the etymology of Shōnan (). One is that Kanagawa Prefecture where the Shōnan region is located was until the first half of the19th century called Sagami-no-kuni () or Sōshū (相州) (as that phrase remaining in the Sagami River and Sagami Bay), and that Shōnan was in the south () of Sōshū (the water sign \"氵\" of the Kanji radicals having been added to \"相\" to make it more poetic). The other is that Shōnan comes from Xiangnan Prefecture (湘南県) of the old Province/Country of Changsha ( in southern China.\n\nIn the latter theory, the region's name, Shōnan, derives from a supposedly scenic region in Hunan, China, encapsulated in the phrase 瀟湘湖南 (Chinese pinyin: \"xiāo xiāng hú nán\"; Japanese: \"shōshō konan\"). This phrase refers to a beautiful area centered on the Xiao River (瀟江) and the Xiang River (湘江) south of the Yangtze River in Hunan. Often praised in Chinese poetry of the Xiaoxiang genre, the scenery of this area became a stylized popular subject of paintings in both medieval China and Japan, particularly as to the graphic and poetic series known as the \"Eight Views of Xiaoxiang\". In Japan, the scenery of the Shōnan area was thought to be similar to the scenery around the Xiao and Xiang rivers in Hunan, China; hence the term \"Shōnan\" (Chinese pinyin: \"xiāng nán\", another name for the southern Hunan region) came to be applied to the area around Enoshima in Japan.\n\nBesides the similarity in scenery, the two areas both had flood-basin lakes. The lake in China, which still exists, is Lake Dongting. Among others, the lake is fed by the Xiang and Xiao rivers (the Xiao is a tributary of the Xiang). In Japan, the corresponding flood-basin lake (which no longer exists but was mentioned in the \"Enoshima Engi\") was probably located along the course of the Kashio River, which flows into Sagami Bay (via the Katase River) at Enoshima.\n"}
{"id": "39309221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39309221", "title": "Stade Lomipeau", "text": "Stade Lomipeau\n\nStade Lomipeau is a stadium in Mata-Utu, Wallis Island, Wallis and Futuna.\n"}
{"id": "54978131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54978131", "title": "Steig", "text": "Steig\n\nA steig (Low German: \"Stieg\") is a German term that originally meant a narrow footpath over hills or mountains that could not be negotiated by horse-drawn vehicles. Today the term occurs in German-speaking countries as a synonym for all kinds of footpaths, e.g., \"Bürgersteig\", a term for \"pavement\" in Austria or Switzerland. The term \"steig\" and its dialectical variations is commonly found in many placenames.\n\n\"Steige\" in hill or mountain areas, often run over exposed, rocky terrain and are therefore more uneven than normal footpaths. They should only be attempted with mountaineering boots or high sports shoes, which extend above the ankles (to reduce the risk of going over on one's ankle).\n\nOn hiking maps and large-scale topographical maps (typically 1:50,000 scale) in Germany, Austria and Switzerland, \"steige\" and \"klettersteige\" are usually portrayed by short dashes or dotted lines, while wider tracks are often indicated by longer dashes (cart tracks may also be portrayed by dots and dashes).\n\nPopular climbing mountains often have several \"steige\" on each side (see e.g. the Rax, Hochkönig or Zugspitze). Regional books, websites, climbing and hiking guides give more detailed information on the routes and elevations, the opening times of mountain huts and the duration of walks. They may also identify and describe potential emergency exit routes. \n\nNarrow or steep paths through a gorge or leading to other tourist attractions such as old mines, nature trails, waterfalls etc. are called \"steige\". Those that are especially popular are almost always secured with ropes, steps, ladders or small footbridges.\n\nThe suffix \"-steig\" or \"-stieg\" is often used nowadays in the names of major long distance paths of tourist significance. German examples include:\n\n"}
{"id": "24018367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24018367", "title": "Stewart McPherson (geographer)", "text": "Stewart McPherson (geographer)\n\nStewart Robin McPherson (born May 1983) is a British geographer, field biologist, nature photographer, and writer.\n\nMcPherson graduated in geography at the University of Durham in England, and studied briefly at the University of Tübingen in Germany, and Yale University in the United States. On graduation in 2006 he founded Redfern Natural History Productions in Poole, Dorset to conduct natural history research, publishing, filming and eco-tours.\n\nMcPherson is the author of around 20 volumes published by his own company and concerned with natural history, largely focusing on carnivorous plants. He has co-discovered a number of species (including the much publicised \"Nepenthes  attenboroughii\") and has formally described around 35 carnivorous plant taxa. \n\nHe is a member of the IUCN SSC Carnivorous Plant Specialist Group. He documented each species in full detail in its natural habitat, taking seven years with many expeditions in the tropics of Southeast Asia, Africa and South America. Over time he has transitioned into TV presenter and natural history writer.\n\nHe set up \"Ark of Life\" to conserve species on the brink of extinction, initially carnivorous plant groups.\n\nMcPherson has appeared in several documentaries, including a conservation documentary on the lost world \"tepui\" sandstone plateaux of southern Venezuela and the borderlands of northern Brazil and western Guyana. A 2011 documentary \"Mountain with No Name\" was set on Palawan in the Philippines, where he discovered new species of flesh eating plants on a previously unexplored mountain. An earlier 2010 film documented the discovery of \"Nepenthes leonardoi\".\n\nHis most recent series for the BBC was \"Britain's Treasure Islands\", a series of three episodes in which he visits all of Britain's 14 overseas territories, travelling 70,000 km in the process. Working with cameraman Simon Vacher, he discussed the natural history of each location and history of British settlement. The series was focused on the natural history of the UK Overseas Territories, particular the most impressive wildlife populations and migrations. In British Antarctica and South Georgia he retraced the expedition of Ernest Shackleton, and made a rare visit to the Chagos Archipelago and Pitcairn Island. The series was filmed in 2012, 2013 and 2014, broadcast on BBC Four in 2016 and repeated in 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27677686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27677686", "title": "The thrown stones", "text": "The thrown stones\n\nThe shape of the so-called “thrown stones” has caught the curiosity of many travelers going to Rome. About a kilometer from the town of Bolsena, which leads to Montefiascone along the Cassia, you can observe a columnar basalt rock formation: naturally-formed prisms of volcanic rock.\n\nThe “thrown stones” the popular term, which is commonly referred to these particular rocks, was coined by the locals in an attempt to understand what seemed like an inexplicable phenomenon. People imagined that the volcano, that is now replaced by Lake Bolsena, had thrown stones during an eruption and that they had driven into the ground.\n\nThe morphology of this basaltic wall is due to the intense volcanic activity that affected the area one million years ago and in particular to the magma that came in contact with water, which has taken the form of a pentagonal or hexagonal rock column. In some cases the so-called \"heads\" of the basalts are not smooth, but have a rough surface due to melt conformations called \"volcanic\".\n\nA legend tells that the ancient gods had built the temple in a sacred place near the lake, which had prevented the priests from celebrating the rites and sacrifices in the unlucky days. But some priests didn't adhere to the divine. Thus the temple was violated. The fury of the gods was very violent and a series of lightning was thrown on the temple and the village nearby. But a brave girl, in order to save innocent people, reached the lake because she wanted to sink and die. The Almighty moved by the sacrifice of the girl, saved her from a lightning turning himself into a stone this way she didn’t drown. The God, overcome by compassion, calmed its fury and turned every bolt launched on the temple into a series of stones stuck into the ground. The quiet came back then but the rites were celebrated following rigorous rules. The temple was destroyed and never rebuilt. The girl was recognized by all as the only Vestal of God and retired in a sacred cave located near the lake waters.\n\nLa Tuscia \n\nVelza Forum \n\nComune di Bolsena \n"}
{"id": "55574339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55574339", "title": "Timeline of Goma", "text": "Timeline of Goma\n\nThe following is a of the history of the city of Goma, Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13630888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13630888", "title": "Urbanization in China", "text": "Urbanization in China\n\nUrbanisation in China increased in speed following the initiation of the reform and opening policy. By the end of 2017, 59.4% of the total population lived in urban areas, a dramatic increase from 26% in 1990.\n\nBy 2010, the OECD, based on Functional Urban Area (FUA), estimates there are currently 17 megacities in China.\n\nChina's increase in urbanization was one of the several functions of the surpluses produced from the agricultural sectors in Chinese (farming and pastoral dependency). This judgment is based on (1) the fact that not until the end of the Qing Period did Chinese begin importing moderate quantities of foodstuffs from the outside world to help feed its population; and (2) the fact that the handicraft sector never challenged agricultural dominance in the economy despite a symbiotic relationship between them.\n\nBy the same token, urbanization rarely exceeded ten percent of the total population although large urban centers were established. For example, during the Song, the northern capital Kaifeng (of the Northern Song) and southern capital Hangzhou (of the Southern Song) had 1.4 million and one million inhabitants, respectively. In addition, it was common that urban residents also had one foot in the rural sector due to private landholding property rights.\n\nUrban population grew steadily at around 3%-20% from 1950 to 1965. Urban population experienced a 'great jump' in 1958-1961 during the \"Great Leap Forward\" in conjunction with the massive industrialization effort. During the Cultural Revolution years of 1965-1975, urban population growth dropped as a result of 'rustication'. From 1962 to 1978, it is estimated that almost 18 million urban youth moved to the countryside.\n\nHowever, after reforms were launched at the end of 1978, urban population growth began to accelerate. The inflow of foreign direct investment created massive employment opportunities, which fostered urban population growth. In the 1990s, urban population growth started to slow. This reflected a slower increase in employment growth following the restructuring of the state-owned enterprises (SOE).\n\nThe majority of China's people live in the eastern segment of the country, the traditional China proper. Most are peasants living, as did their forebears, in the low-lying hills and central plains that stretch from the highlands eastward and southward to the sea. Agriculture predominates in this vast area, generally favored by a temperate or subtropical climate. The meticulously tilled fields are evidence in part of the government's continuing concern over farm output and the food supply.\n\nAlthough migration to urban areas has been restricted since the late 1950s, as of the end of 1985 about 33 percent of the population was urban. An urban and industrial corridor formed a broad arc stretching from Harbin in the northeast through the Beijing area and south to China's largest city, the industrial metropolitan complex of Shanghai.\n\nThe uneven pattern of internal development and settlement, so strongly weighted toward the eastern part of the country, doubtless will change relatively little even with developing interest in exploiting the mineral-rich and agriculturally productive portions of the vast northwest and southwest regions. The adverse terrain and climate of most of those regions have historically discouraged dense population.\n\nIn 1987 China had a total of twenty-nine provincial-level administrative units directly under the central government in Beijing. In addition to the twenty-one provinces (\"sheng\"), there were five autonomous regions (\"zizhiqu\") for minority nationalities, and three special municipalities (\"shi\")--the three largest cities, Shanghai, Beijing, and Tianjin. (The establishment of Hainan Island as a provincial-level unit separate from Guangdong Province was scheduled in 1988.) A 1979 change in provincial-level administrative boundaries in the northeast region restored Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region to its original size (it had been reduced by a third in 1969) at the expense of Heilongjiang, Jilin, and Liaoning provinces. Urban areas were further subdivided into lower-level administrative units beginning with municipalities and extending down to the neighborhood level.\n\nThe pace of urbanization in China from 1949 to 1982 was relatively slow because of both rapid growth of the rural population and tight restrictions on rural-urban migration for most of that period. According to the 1953 and 1982 censuses, the urban population as a percentage of total population increased from 13.3 to 20.6 percent during that period. From 1982 to 1986, however, the urban population increased dramatically to 37 percent of the total population. This large jump resulted from a combination of factors. One was the migration of large numbers of surplus agricultural workers, displaced by the agricultural responsibility system, from rural to urban areas. Another was a 1984 decision to broaden the criteria for classifying an area as a city or town. During 1984, the number of towns meeting the new urban criteria increased more than twofold, and the urban town population doubled. In the mid-1980s, demographers expected the proportion of the population living in cities and towns to be around 50 percent by the start of the 21st century. This urban growth was expected to result primarily from the increase in the number of small- and medium-sized cities and towns rather than from an expansion of existing large cities.\n\nChina's statistics regarding urban population sometimes can be misleading because of the various criteria used to calculate urban population. In the 1953 census, urban essentially referred to settlements with populations of more than 2,500, in which more than 50 percent of the labor force were involved in nonagricultural pursuits. The 1964 census raised the cut-off to 3,000 and the requirement for nonagricultural labor to 70 percent. The 1982 census used the 3,000/70 percent minimum but introduced criteria of 2,500 to 3,000 and 85 percent as well. Also, in calculating urban population, the 1982 census made a radical change by including the agricultural population residing within the city boundaries. This explains the dramatic jump in urban population from the 138.7 million reported for year-end 1981 to the 206.6 million counted by the 1982 census. In 1984 the urban guidelines were further loosened, allowing for lower minimum population totals and nonagricultural percentages. The criteria varied among provincial-level units.\n\nAlthough country urban population—382 million, or 37 percent of the total population in the mid-1980s—was relatively low by comparison with developed nations, the number of people living in urban areas in China was greater than the total population of any country in the world except India. The four Chinese cities with the largest populations in 1985 were Shanghai, with 7 million; Beijing, with 5.9 million; Tianjin, with 5.4 million; and Shenyang, with 4.2 million. The disproportionate distribution of population in large cities occurred as a result of the government's emphasis after 1949 on the development of large cities over smaller urban areas. In 1985 the 22 most populous cities in China had a total population of 47.5 million, or about 12 percent of China's total urban population. The number of cities with populations of at least 100,000 increased from 200 in 1976 to 342 in 1986.\n\nIn 1987, China was committed to a three-part strategy to control urban growth: strictly limiting the size of big cities (those of 500,000 or more people); developing medium-sized cities (200,000 to 500,000); and encouraging the growth of small cities (100,000 to 200,000). The government also encouraged the development of small market and commune centers that were not then officially designated as urban places, hoping that they eventually would be transformed into towns and small cities. For more on this understudied dimension of China's urbanisation see the special issue of China Perspectives (September 2013) edited by Ben Hillman and Jon Unger of the Australian National University. The big and medium-sized cities were viewed as centers of heavy and light industry, and small cities and towns were looked on as possible locations for handicraft and workshop activities, using labor provided mainly from rural overflow. The urbanization of small and medium-sized towns has created different challenges for ethnically diverse areas, leading in some cases to an ethnic stratification of labor and greater potential for ethnic conflict.\n\nIn 2005, China had 286 cities. Most of China's cities have a population of one million and below. Shanghai is the largest city in China, with a population of 19 million, followed by Beijing with a population of 17.4 million. These are the two mega-cities in China.\n\nFrom 2010 to 2025, it is estimated by the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development that 300 million Chinese now living in rural areas will move into cities. The fast pace of urbanization will create at least one trillion yuan in annual investment opportunities in building water supply, waste treatment, heating and other public utilities in the cities. The Chinese government is also demolishing rural villages and building new cities and towns to relocate villagers to. It ultimately aims to integrate about 70% of China's population, about 900 million people, into cities by 2025.\n\nAccording to Professor Lu Dadao, president of the Geographical Society of China (GSC), China's urbanization took 22 years to increase to 39.1% from 17.9%. It took Britain 120 years, the US 80 years, and Japan more than 30 years to accomplish this.\n\nAs shown in the table (right), China's urban population growth is higher than that of Asia as well as the world.\n\nChina's urbanization rate in 2005 was higher than that of Asia and roughly on par with the levels in East and South-East Asia. However, the country still has a long way to go in catching up with the western developed countries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7375831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7375831", "title": "Voyages of Christopher Columbus", "text": "Voyages of Christopher Columbus\n\nIn 1492, a Spanish-based transatlantic maritime expedition led by Italian explorer Christopher Columbus encountered the Americas, continents which were largely unknown in Europe and were outside the Old World political and economic system. The four voyages of Columbus began the Spanish colonization of the Americas.\n\nFor a long time it was generally believed that Columbus and his crew had been the first Europeans to make landfall in the Americas. In fact they were not the first explorers from Europe to reach the Americas, having been preceded by the Viking expedition led by Leif Erikson in the 11th century; however, Columbus's voyages were the ones that led to ongoing European contact with the Americas, inaugurating a period of exploration, conquest, and colonization whose effects and consequences persist to the present.\n\nColumbus was an Italian-born navigator sailing for the Crown of Castile in search of a westward route to Asia, to access the sources of spices and other oriental goods. This led instead to a discovery of the New World between Europe and Asia. Columbus made a total of four voyages to the Americas between 1492 and 1502, setting the stage for the European exploration and colonization of the Americas, ultimately leading to the Columbian Exchange.\n\nAt the time of the Columbus voyages, the Americas were inhabited by the Indigenous Americans, the descendants of Paleo-Indians who crossed Beringia from Asia to North America beginning around 20,000 years ago. Columbus's voyages led to the widespread knowledge that a new continent existed west of Europe and east of Asia. This breakthrough in geographical science led to the exploration and colonization of the New World by Spain and other European sea powers, and is sometimes cited as the start of the modern era.\n\nSpain, Portugal, and other European kingdoms sent expeditions and established colonies throughout the New World, converted the native inhabitants to Christianity, and built large trade networks across the Atlantic, which introduced new plants, animals, and food crops to both continents. The search for a westward route to Asia continued in 1513 when Vasco Nuñez de Balboa crossed the narrow Isthmus of Panama to become the first European to sight the Pacific Ocean. The search was completed in 1521, when the Castilian (\"Spanish\") Magellan expedition sailed across the Pacific and reached Southeast Asia.\n\nPortugal had been the main European power interested in pursuing trade routes overseas. Their next-door neighbors, Castile (predecessor of Spain) had been somewhat slower to begin exploring the Atlantic because of the bigger land area it had to re-conquer (the \"Reconquista\") from the Moors. It was not until the late 15th century, following the dynastic union of the Crowns of Castile and Aragon and the completion of the \"Reconquista\", that the unified crowns of what would become Spain (although countries still legally existing) emerged and became fully committed to looking for new trade routes and colonies overseas. In 1492 the joint rulers conquered the Moorish kingdom of Granada, which had been providing Castile with African goods through tribute. Columbus had previously failed to convince King John II of Portugal to fund his exploration of a western route, but the new king and queen of the re-conquered Spain decided to fund Columbus's expedition in hopes of bypassing Portugal's lock on Africa and the Indian Ocean, reaching Asia by traveling west.\n\nHe proposed the king equip three sturdy ships and grant Columbus one year's time to sail out west into the Atlantic, search for a western route to India, and return. Columbus also requested he be made \"Great Admiral of the Ocean Sea\" (Atlantic Ocean), appointed governor of any and all lands he discovered, and be given one-tenth of all revenue from those lands. The king submitted the proposal to his experts, who rejected it after several years. It was their considered opinion that Columbus's estimation of a travel distance of was, in fact, far too short.\n\nIn 1488 Columbus appealed to the court of Portugal, receiving a new invitation for an audience with King John II. This also proved unsuccessful, in part because not long afterwards Bartolomeu Dias returned to Portugal following a successful rounding of the southern tip of Africa. With an eastern sea route now under its control, Portugal was no longer interested in trailblazing a western trade route to Asia crossing unknown seas. Columbus traveled from Portugal to Castile to convince the Catholic Monarchs of Castile and Aragon to finance the expedition.\n\nKing Ferdinand II of Aragon married Queen Isabella I of Castile in 1469, uniting the two largest kingdoms into what would later be the Spanish Crown. They were known jointly as the Catholic Monarchs, and ruled their kingdoms independently, but had common internal and foreign policies.\n\nColumbus was granted an audience with them; on May 1, 1489, he presented his plans to Queen Isabella, who referred them to a committee. They pronounced the idea impractical, and advised the monarchs not to support the proposed venture.\n\nHowever, to expand the Spanish empire and Catholicism in the name of Spanish Kings, and to assure a better market position in trading, the Queen gave Columbus an annual allowance of 12,000 \"maravedis\" and part of the newly conquered lands.\n\nAfter continually lobbying at the royal court and enduring two years of negotiations, Columbus finally succeeded in January 1492. Queen Isabella's forces had just conquered the Moorish Emirate of Granada, the last Muslim stronghold of Al-Andalus on the Iberian peninsula, for Castile. Isabella and Ferdinand received Columbus in the \"Alcázar\" (castle) in Córdoba to support his plans.\n\nThe monarchs left it to the royal treasurer to shift funds among various royal accounts on behalf of the enterprise. Columbus was to be made \"Admiral of the Seas\" and would receive a portion of all profits. The terms were unusually generous but, as his son later wrote, the monarchs were not confident of his return.\n\nAccording to Columbus's contract made for the expedition commission by Queen Isabella for Castile, if Columbus claimed any new islands or mainland for the Crown, he would receive many high rewards. In terms of power, he would be given the rank of Admiral of the Ocean Sea and appointed Viceroy and Governor of the newly colonised lands. He had the right to nominate three people, from whom the sovereigns would choose one, for any office in the new lands. He would be entitled to ten per cent of all the revenues from the new lands in perpetuity.\n\nEurope had long enjoyed a safe land passage to China and India—sources of valued goods such as silk, spices, and opiates—under the hegemony of the Mongol Empire (the Pax Mongolica, or \"Mongol peace\"). With the Fall of Constantinople to the Turkish Ottoman Empire in 1453, the land route to Asia became more difficult. In response to this the Columbus brothers had, by the 1480s, developed a plan to travel to the Indies, then construed roughly as all of southern and eastern Asia, by sailing directly west across what was believed to be the singular \"Ocean Sea,\" the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nWashington Irving's 1828 biography of Columbus popularized the idea that Columbus had difficulty obtaining support for his plan because Europeans thought the Earth was flat. In fact, the primitive maritime navigation of the time relied on the stars and the curvature of the spherical Earth. The knowledge that the Earth was spherical was widespread, and the means of calculating its diameter using an astrolabe was known to both scholars and navigators.\n\nA spherical Earth had been the general opinion of Ancient Greek science, and this view continued through the Middle Ages (for example, Bede mentions it in \"The Reckoning of Time\"). In fact Eratosthenes had measured the diameter of the Earth with good precision in the 2nd century BC. Where Columbus did differ from the generally accepted view of his time was in his incorrect arguments that assumed a significantly smaller diameter for the Earth, claiming that Asia could be easily reached by sailing west across the Atlantic. Most scholars accepted Ptolemy's correct assessment that the terrestrial landmass (for Europeans of the time, comprising Eurasia and Africa) occupied 180 degrees of the terrestrial sphere, and dismissed Columbus's claim that the Earth was much smaller, and that Asia was only a few thousand nautical miles to the west of Europe. Columbus's error was attributed to his insufficient experience in navigation at sea.\n\nColumbus believed the incorrect calculations of Marinus of Tyre, putting the landmass at 225 degrees, leaving only 135 degrees of water. Moreover, Columbus believed that one degree represented a shorter distance on the Earth's surface than was actually the case – he read maps as if the distances were calculated in Italian miles (about 1,480 meters). Accepting the length of a degree to be 56⅔ miles, from the writings of Alfraganus, he therefore calculated the circumference of the Earth as at most, and the distance from the Canary Islands to Japan as 3,000 Italian miles (). Columbus did not realize Alfraganus used the much longer Arabic mile (about 1,830 m).\n\nThe true circumference of the Earth is about , a figure first established approximately by Eratosthenes in the 2nd century BC, and the distance from the Canary Islands to Japan . No ship that was readily available in the 15th century could carry enough food and fresh water for such a journey. Most European sailors and navigators concluded, probably correctly, that sailors undertaking a westward voyage from Europe to Asia non-stop would die of thirst, scurvy or starvation long before reaching their destination. Spain, however, having just completed the expensive Reconquista, was desperate for a competitive edge over other European countries in trade with the East Indies. Columbus promised such an advantage.\n\nEuropeans generally assumed that the aquatic expanse between Europe and Asia was uninterrupted. While hints of North America, Vinland, were already surfacing in Europe, historians agree that Columbus calculated too short a distance from the Canary Islands to Japan by the standards of his peers.\n\nThere was a further element of key importance in the plans of Columbus, a closely held fact discovered by or otherwise learned by Columbus: the Trade Winds. A brisk westward wind from the east, commonly called an \"easterly\", propelled \"Santa María\", \"La Niña\", and \"La Pinta\" for five weeks from the Canary Islands off Africa. To return to Spain eastward against this prevailing wind would have required several months of an arduous sailing technique upwind, called beating, during which food and drinkable water would have been utterly exhausted. Columbus returned home by following prevailing winds northeastward from the southern zone of the North Atlantic to the middle latitudes of the North Atlantic, where prevailing winds are eastward (westerly) to the coastlines of Western Europe, where the winds curve southward towards the Iberian Peninsula. So he used the North Atlantic's great circular wind pattern, clockwise in direction, in both legs of his voyage.\n\nAt 8:00 on the morning of 3 August 1492, Columbus departed from Castilian Palos de la Frontera (on the river Saltes, at the confluence of the rivers Rio Tinto and Rio Odiel). Columbus and his crew embarked on a voyage to find a shorter route to India and the Orient with three medium-sized ships, the \"Niña\" (real name \"Santa Clara\"), the \"Pinta\", and the \"Santa Maria\". The ships were the property of Juan de la Cosa and the Pinzón brothers (Martín Alonso Pinzón and Vicente Yáñez Pinzón), but the monarchs forced the Palos de la Frontera inhabitants to contribute to the expedition as well.\n\nThree days into the journey, on 6 August 1492, the rudder of the \"Pinta\" broke. The owners of the ship, Gomez Rascon and Christoval Quintero, were suspected of sabotage, as they and their ship had been pressed into service against their will. The crew was able to secure the rudder with ropes until they could reach the Canary Islands, where they arrived on 9 August 1492. Here the \"Pinta\" was repaired and the \"Niña\"s lateen sails were re-rigged to standard square sails. While securing provisions from the island of La Gomera, Columbus received word that three Portuguese caravels had been seen hovering near the island of El Hierro with the supposed intention of capturing him. However, on September 6, 1492 the westward voyage began without incident. The ships departed San Sebastián de la Gomera for what turned out to be a six-week long voyage across the Atlantic.\n\nAs described in the abstract of his log made by Bartolome de Las Casas, on the outward bound voyage Columbus recorded two sets of distances. Las Casas originally interpreted that he reported the shorter distances to his crew so they would not worry about sailing too far from Spain. However, according to Oliver Dunn and James Kelley, this was a misunderstanding by Las Casas. Columbus did report two distances each day but one was in measurements he normally used, the other in the Portuguese maritime leagues used by his crew.\n\nOn 13 September 1492, Columbus observed that the needle of his compass no longer pointed to the North Star. The needle instead had varied a half point to the northwest, and continued to vary further as the journey progressed. Columbus at first made no mention of this, knowing his crew to be prone to panic with their destination unknown, but after several days his pilots took notice with much anxiety. Allegedly the crew grew so homesick and fearful that they threatened to sail back to Spain. Columbus reasoned that the needle did not point to the North Star, but to some invisible point on the Earth. His reputation as an astronomer held weight with the crew, and his theory alleviated their alarm. It was once believed that Columbus had discovered magnetic declination, but it was later shown that the phenomenon was already known, both in Europe and in China.\n\nAfter twenty-nine days out of sight of land, on 7 October 1492, the crew spotted \"[i]mmense flocks of birds\", some of which his sailors trapped and determined to be \"field\" birds (probably Eskimo curlews and American golden plovers). Columbus changed course to follow their flight.\n\nLand was first sighted at 2 a.m. on October 12, 1492, by a sailor named Rodrigo de Triana (also known as Juan Rodriguez Bermejo) aboard \"La Pinta\". Columbus would later assert that he had first seen the land and, thus, earned the reward of 10,000 maravedís. Columbus called the island San Salvador, in the present-day Bahamas or Turks and Caicos; the indigenous residents had named it Guanahani. Exactly which island in the Bahamas or Turks and Caicos this corresponds to is an unresolved topic; prime candidates are Samana Cay, Plana Cays, Grand Turk, Cat Island or San Salvador Island (\"Watlings Island\" named San Salvador in 1925 in the belief that it was Columbus's San Salvador).\nThe indigenous people he encountered in their homelands were peaceful and friendly. At the time of the European discovery of most of the islands of the Caribbean, three major indigenous peoples lived on the islands: the Taíno in the Greater Antilles, the Bahamas, and the Leeward Islands; the Island Caribs (Kalina) and Galibi in the Windward Islands and Guadeloupe; and the Ciboney (a Taíno people) and Guanahatabey of central and western Cuba, respectively. The Taínos are subdivided into Classic Taínos, who occupied Hispaniola and Puerto Rico; Western Taínos, who occupied Cuba, Jamaica, and the Bahamian archipelago; and the Eastern Taínos, who occupied the Leeward Islands. Trinidad was inhabited by both Carib-speaking and Arawak-speaking groups. Most of modern Central America was part of the Mesoamerican civilization. The Amerindian societies of Mesoamerica occupied the land ranging from central Mexico in the north to Costa Rica in the south. The cultures of Panama traded with both Mesoamerica and South America and can be considered transitional between those two cultural areas.\n\nColumbus proceeded to observe the people and their cultural lifestyle. He also explored the northeast coast of Cuba, landing on 28 October 1492, and the north-western coast of Hispaniola, present day Haiti, by 5 December 1492. Here, the \"Santa Maria\" ran aground on Christmas Day, December 25, 1492, and had to be abandoned. Columbus was received by the native cacique Guacanagari, who gave him permission to leave some of his men behind. Columbus founded the settlement, \"La Navidad\", leaving behind 39 men.\n\nOn 15 January 1493, he set sail for home aboard the \"Niña\".\n\nWhile returning to Spain, the \"Niña\" and \"Pinta\" encountered the roughest storm of their journey, and, on the night of 13 February, lost contact with each other. All hands on the \"Niña\" vowed, if they were spared, to make a pilgrimage to the nearest church of Our Lady wherever they first made land. On the morning of February 15, land was spotted. Columbus believed they were approaching the Azore Islands, but other members of the crew felt that they were considerably north of the islands. Columbus turned out to be right. On the night of February 17, the \"Niña\" laid anchor at Santa Maria Island, but the cable broke on sharp rocks, forcing Columbus to stay offshore until the morning, when a safer location was found to drop anchor nearby. A few sailors took a boat to the island, where they were told by several islanders of a still safer place to land, so the Niña moved once again. At this spot, Columbus took on board several islanders who had gathered onshore with food, and told them that his crew wished to come ashore to fulfill their vow. The islanders told him that a small shrine dedicated to Our Lady was nearby. Columbus sent half of the crew members to the island to fulfill their vow, but he and the rest of the crew stayed on the Niña, planning to send the other half to the island upon the return of the first crew members. While the first crew members were saying their prayers at the shrine, they were taken prisoner by the islanders, under orders from the island's captain, João de Castanheira, ostensibly out of fear that the men were pirates. The boat that the crew members had taken to the island was then commandeered by Castanheira, which he took with several armed men to the \"Niña\", in an attempt to arrest Columbus. During a verbal battle across the bows of both craft, during which Columbus did not grant permission for him to come aboard, Castanheira announced that he did not believe or care who Columbus said that he was, especially if he was indeed from Spain. Castanheira returned to the island. However, after another two days, Castanheira released the prisoners, having been unable to get confessions from them, and having been unable to capture his real target, Columbus. There are later claims that Columbus was also captured, but this is not backed up by Columbus's log book.\n\nLeaving the island of Santa Maria in the Azores on 23 February, Columbus headed for Castilian Spain, but another storm forced him into Lisbon. He anchored next to the king's harbor patrol ship on March 4, 1493, where he was told a fleet of 100 caravels had been lost in the storm. Astoundingly, both the \"Niña\" and the \"Pinta\" had been spared. Not finding King John II of Portugal in Lisbon, Columbus wrote a letter to him and waited for the king's reply. After receiving the letter, the king agreed to meet with Columbus in \"Vale do Paraíso\" despite poor relations between Portugal and Castile at the time. Upon learning of Columbus's discoveries, the Portuguese king informed him that he believed the voyage to be in violation of the 1479 Treaty of Alcáçovas. After spending more than a week in Portugal, Columbus set sail for Spain. Word of his finding new lands rapidly spread throughout Europe. After the voyage, Columbus met with Spanish monarchs Ferdinand and Isabella in Barcelona on 15 March 1493 to report his findings. The \"Monument a Colom\" in that city commemorates the event.\n\nColumbus and his remaining crew came home to a hero's welcome when they returned to Spain. He showed off what he had brought back from his voyage to the monarchs, including a few small samples of gold, pearls, gold jewelry stolen from natives, a few natives he had kidnapped, flowers, and a hammock. He gave the monarchs a few of the gold nuggets, gold jewelry, and pearls, as well as the previously unknown tobacco plant, the pineapple fruit, the turkey, and the hammock. The monarchs invited Columbus to dine with them. A taster even tasted the food from each of his dishes before he ate to \"make sure it was not poisoned.\" He was given his own footmen to open doors for him and to serve him at the table. Columbus was even rewarded with his own coat of arms. He did not bring any of the coveted East Indies spices, such as the exceedingly expensive black pepper, ginger or cloves. In his log, he wrote \"there is also plenty of 'ají', which is their pepper, which is more valuable than black pepper, and all the people eat nothing else, it being very wholesome\". The word \"ají\" is still used in South American Spanish for chili peppers.\n\nColumbus's letter on the first voyage to the royal court in Madrid was extravagant. He insisted he had reached Asia (it was Cuba) and an island off the coast of China (Hispaniola). His descriptions were part fact, part fiction: \"Hispaniola is a miracle. Mountains and hills, plains and pastures, are both fertile and beautiful ... the harbors are unbelievably good and there are many wide rivers of which the majority contain gold. ... There are many spices, and great mines of gold and other metals...\"\n\nAfter Columbus's return, Pope Alexander VI issued a bull which divided the \"newly discovered\" lands outside Europe between Spain and Portugal along a north–south meridian 958 leagues west of the Cape Verde islands (off the coast of Africa in the mid-Atlantic), thus granting Spain all land discovered by Columbus. This division was never accepted by the rulers of England or France. (See also the Treaty of Tordesillas that followed the papal decree.)\n\nBefore he left Spain on his second voyage, Columbus had been directed by Ferdinand and Isabella to maintain friendly, even loving, relations with the natives. He set sail from Cádiz, Spain, on September 24, 1493.\n\nThe fleet for the second voyage was much larger: two naos and 15 caravels. The two naos were the flagship \"Marigalante\" and the \"Gallega\"; the caravels were the \"Fraila\", \"San Juan\", \"Colina\", \"Gallarda\", \"Gutierre\", \"Bonial\", \"Rodriga\", \"Triana\", \"Vieja\", \"Prieta\", \"Gorda\", \"Cardera\", and \"Quintera\". The \"Niña\" returned for this expedition, which also included a ship named \"Pinta\" probably identical to that from the first expedition. In addition, the expedition saw the construction of the first ship in the Americas, the \"Santa Cruz\" or \"India\".\n\nOn November 3, 1493, Christopher Columbus landed on a rugged shore on an island that he named Dominica. On the same day, he landed at Marie-Galante, which he named Santa María la Galante. After sailing past Les Saintes (Todos los Santos), he arrived at Guadeloupe (Santa María de Guadalupe), which he explored between November 4 and November 10, 1493. The exact course of his voyage through the Lesser Antilles is debated, but it seems likely that he turned north, sighting and naming many islands including Santa María de Montserrat (Montserrat), Santa María la Antigua (Antigua), Santa María la Redonda (Saint Martin), and Santa Cruz (Saint Croix). He also sighted and named the island chain of the Santa Úrsula y las Once Mil Vírgenes (the Virgin Islands), and named the islands of Virgen Gorda. He continued to the Greater Antilles, and landed on the island of San Juan Bautista, present day Puerto Rico, on November 19, 1493. His men rescued two boys who had just been castrated by their captors.\n\nOn November 22, he returned to Hispaniola, where he found his men at La Navidad had fallen into dispute with natives in the interior and had been killed, but he did not accuse Chief Guacanagari, his ally, of any wrongdoing. Another Chief, named Caonabo in Jaragua, was charged. Columbus established a new settlement at La Isabela, on the north coast of Hispaniola, where gold had first been found, but it was a poor location and the settlement was short-lived. He spent some time exploring the interior of the island for gold. Finding some, he established a small fort in the interior.\n\nHe left Hispaniola on April 24, 1494, and arrived at the island of Juana (Cuba) (which he had discovered and named during his first voyage) on April 30 and Discovery Bay, Jamaica on May 5. He explored the south coast of Juana, which he believed to be a peninsula of China rather than an island, and several nearby islands including La Evangelista (the Isle of Youth), before returning to Hispaniola on August 20. After staying for a time on the western end of present-day Haiti he finally returned to Spain.\n\nDuring the second voyage, Columbus sent a letter to the monarchs proposing to enslave some of the Americas' people, specifically from the Carib tribe, on the grounds of their independence-minded aggressiveness and their status as enemies of the Taíno tribe. Although his petition was refused by the Crown, in February 1495, Columbus disobeyed the Queen and took 1,600 people from the Arawak tribe who were then taken by the Carib as captives and slaves. No room was available for about 400 of the kidnapped Arawak leading to their release. The long-term consequence for the Arawaks of contact with Europeans was that thousands of people were almost entirely exterminated by disease, infighting and economic despair.\n\nThe many voyages of discovery did not pay for themselves, and there was no funding for pure science in the Renaissance. Columbus had planned for Queen Isabella to set up trading posts with the cities of the Far East made famous by Marco Polo, but whose Silk Road and eastern maritime routes had been blockaded to her crown's trade. Of course, Columbus would never find Cathay (China) or Zipangu (Japan), and there was no longer any Great Khan for trade treaties.\n\nSlavery was practiced widely at that time amongst many peoples of the world, including some Native Americans. For the Portuguese—from whom Columbus received most of his maritime training—the profits from enslaving people had resulted in the first \"financial return\" on a 75-year investment in Africa.\n\nColumbus enslaved five hundred and sixty people. The slaves were shipped to Spain; 200 died during the route back to Spain, and half of the remainder were ill when they arrived. After legal proceedings in the \"Cortes\", some survivors were ordered released and to be returned to their \"las Americas\" homeland, whereas others were used by Queen Isabella as galley slaves. Columbus, desperate to repay his investors, failed to realize that Isabella and Ferdinand did not plan to follow or allow Portuguese slavery policy in this respect. Rounding up the slaves led to the first major battle between the Spanish and the native peoples in their homeland, called by Europeans \"the New World\".\n\nColumbus was eager to pay back dividends to those who had invested in his promise to fill his ships with gold. And since so many of the slaves died in captivity, he developed a plan while in the Province of Cicao on Hispaniola. Columbus imposed a tribute system, similar to that of the still-unknown Aztec Empire tribute on the mainland. All Cicaoan indigenous residents above 14 years of age were required to find and deliver a specific quota of gold every three months. Upon their doing so, they would receive copper tokens that they wore around their necks. Any Indian found without a copper token had their hands cut off and subsequently bled to death. Since there were no gold mines on the island, the Indians had no chance of meeting Columbus' quota and thousands are reported to have committed suicide.\n\nDespite or because of such extreme enforcement, Columbus did not obtain much gold, and many new foreign \"settlers\" were unhappy with the climate and disillusioned about their chances of getting rich quickly. A classic gold rush had been set off that would have tragic consequences for the Caribbean's indigenous people and cultures. Anthropologists have shown there was more intermarriage and assimilation than previously believed (see the Black Legend). Columbus allowed settlers to return to their homeland with any Indian women with whom they had started families, or to Queen Isabella's fury, had kidnapped and owned as slaves.\n\nAccording to the abstract of Columbus's journal made by Bartolomé de Las Casas, the objective of the third voyage was to verify the existence of a continent that King John II of Portugal suggested was located to the southwest of the Cape Verde Islands. King John reportedly knew of the existence of such a mainland because \"canoes had been found which set out from the coast of Guinea [West Africa] and sailed to the west with merchandise.\"\n\nOn May 30, 1498, Columbus left the port of Sanlúcar, Spain with a fleet of six ships, sending three directly to the West Indies while leading the other three: the \"Santa María de Guía\", the \"Vaqueños\", and the \"Correo\" to the Portuguese Porto Santo Island, his wife's native homeland. He then sailed to the island of Madeira and spent some time there with the Portuguese captain João Gonçalves da Câmara before sailing to the Canary Islands and Cape Verde. The ships found King John's hypothesized continent, which is South America, when they sighted the land of Trinidad on 31 July approaching from the southeast. The fleet sailed along the southern coast and entered Dragon's Mouth, anchoring near Soldado Rock where they made contact with a group of native Amerindians in canoes. Columbus then landed on Trinidad at Icacos Point (which he named \"Punta de Arenal\") on 2 August.\n\nFrom August 4 through August 12, 1498, he explored the Gulf of Paria which separates Trinidad from mainland Venezuela. He then explored the mainland of South America, including the Orinoco River. He also sailed to the islands of Chacachacare and Margarita Island and sighted and named islands Bella Forma (Tobago) and Concepcion (Grenada). He described the new lands as belonging to a previously unknown new continent, but he pictured it hanging from China, bulging out to make the earth pear-shaped.\n\nDuring Columbus's term as Viceroy and Governor of the Indies, he had been accused of governing tyrannically, called \"the tyrant of the Caribbean\". Columbus was physically and mentally exhausted; his body was wracked by arthritis and his eyes by ophthalmia. In October 1499, he sent two ships to Spain, asking the Cortes Generales of Castile to appoint a royal commissioner to help him govern.\n\nThe Cortes appointed Francisco de Bobadilla, a member of the Order of Calatrava; however, his authority stretched far beyond what Columbus had requested. Bobadilla was given complete control as governor from 1500 until he was killed in a hurricane in 1502. Arriving in Santo Domingo while Columbus was away, Bobadilla immediately received many serious complaints about all three Columbus brothers: Christopher, Bartolomé, and Diego. The testimonies of 23 people who had seen or heard about the treatment meted out by Columbus and his brothers—had originally been lost for centuries, but was rediscovered in 2005 in the Spanish archives in Valladolid. It contained an account of Columbus's seven-year reign as the first Governor of the Indies Consuelo Varela, a Spanish historian, states: \"Even those who loved him [Columbus] had to admit the atrocities that had taken place.\"\n\nAs a result of these testimonies and without being allowed a word in his own defense, Columbus upon his return, had manacles placed on his wrists and chains placed on his ankles and was cast into prison to await return to Spain. He was 49 years old.\n\nColumbus was arrested in 1500 and supplanted from his posts. A number of returned settlers and friars lobbied against Columbus at the Spanish court, accusing him of mismanagement. Francisco de Bobadilla arrived on August 23, 1500 and detained Columbus and his brothers and had them shipped home. On October 1, 1500, Columbus and his two brothers, likewise in chains, were sent back to Spanish Aragon. Once in Cádiz, a grieving Columbus wrote to a friend at court:\n\nIt is now seventeen years since I came to serve these princes with the Enterprise of the Indies. They made me pass eight of them in discussion, and at the end rejected it as a thing of jest. Nevertheless I persisted therein... Over there I have placed under their sovereignty more land than there is in Africa and Europe, and more than 1,700 islands... In seven years I, by the divine will, made that conquest. At a time when I was entitled to expect rewards and retirement, I was incontinently arrested and sent home loaded with chains... The accusation was brought out of malice on the basis of charges made by civilians who had revolted and wished to take possession on the land...\n\nI beg your graces, with the zeal of faithful Christians in whom their Highnesses have confidence, to read all my papers, and to consider how I, who came from so far to serve these princes... now at the end of my days have been despoiled of my honor and my property without cause, wherein is neither justice nor mercy.\n\nColumbus and his brothers were jailed for six weeks before the busy King Ferdinand ordered them released. Not long thereafter, the king and queen summoned the Columbus brothers to their presence at the Alhambra palace in Granada. There the royal couple heard the brothers' pleas; restored their freedom and their wealth; and, after much persuasion, agreed to fund Columbus's fourth voyage. But the door was firmly shut on Christopher Columbus's role as governor. From that point forward, Nicolás de Ovando y Cáceres was to be the new Governor of the Indies.\n\nAlthough he regained his freedom, he did not regain his prestige and lost all his titles including the governorship. As an added insult, the Portuguese had won the race to the East Indies: Vasco da Gama returned in September 1499 from a trip to India, having sailed east around Africa.\n\nOn March 14, 1502 Columbus made a fourth voyage with strict orders from the king and queen which instructed him not to stop at Hispaniola, but only to search for a westward passage to the Indian Ocean mainland. Accompanied by his stepbrother Bartolomeo, Diego Mendez, and his son Fernando, he left Cádiz, Spain on May 12, 1502, with his flagship, \"Capitana\", as well as the \"Gallega\", \"Vizcaína,\" and \"Santiago de Palos\". He sailed to Arzila on the Moroccan coast to rescue the Portuguese soldiers who he heard were under siege by the Moors. On June 15, 1502, they landed at Carbet on the island of Martinique (Martinica). A hurricane was brewing, so he continued on, hoping to find shelter on Hispaniola. He arrived at Santo Domingo on June 29, 1502, but was denied port, and the new governor refused to listen to his storm prediction. Instead, while Columbus's ships sheltered at the mouth of the Jaina River, the first Spanish treasure fleet sailed into the hurricane. The only ship to reach Spain had Columbus's money and belongings on it, and all of his former enemies (and a few friends) had drowned, including Francisco de Bobadilla, who had sent Columbus back to Spain in chains two years earlier.\n\nAfter a brief stop at Jamaica, he sailed to Central America, arriving at Guanaja (Isla de Pinos) in the Bay Islands off the coast of Honduras on July 30, 1502. Here Bartolomeo found native merchants and a large canoe, which was described as \"long as a galley\" and was filled with cargo. On August 14, 1502, he landed on the mainland of the Americas at Puerto Castilla, near Trujillo, Honduras. He spent two months exploring the coasts of Honduras, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica, before arriving in Almirante Bay, Panama on October 16, 1502.\n\nIn Panamá, he learned from the Ngobe of gold and a strait to another ocean. After some exploration, he established a garrison at the mouth of Belén River in January 1503.\n\nBy April 6, the garrison he had established captured the local leader El Quibían, who had demanded they not go down the Belén River. El Quibían escaped, and returned with an army to attack and repel the Spanish, damaging some of the ships so that one vessel had to be abandoned. Columbus left for Hispaniola on April 16, but sustained more damage in a storm off the coast of Cuba. Unable to travel any farther, the ships were beached in St. Ann's Bay, Jamaica, on June 25, 1503.\nFor a year Columbus and his men remained stranded on Jamaica. A Spaniard, Diego Mendez, and some natives paddled a canoe to get help from Hispaniola. The island's governor, Nicolás de Ovando y Cáceres, detested Columbus and obstructed all efforts to rescue him and his men. In the meantime, Columbus mesmerized the natives by correctly predicting a lunar eclipse for February 29, 1504, using the \"Ephemeris\" of the German astronomer Regiomontanus.\n\nHelp finally arrived, from the governor, on June 29, 1504, and Columbus and his men arrived in Sanlúcar de Barrameda, Castile, on November 7, 1504. Columbus died in Valladolid, Spain, on May 20, 1506, at around the age of 54, probably of the effects of chronic reactive arthritis perhaps acquired secondarily to food poisoning.\n\nAfter his death, Columbus's sons, Diego and Fernando, took legal action to enforce their father's contract. Many of the allegations against Columbus and his tyrannical governorship were initiated by the Crown during these lengthy court cases, known as the \"Pleitos Colombinos\". The family had some success in their first litigation, as a judgment of 1511 confirmed Diego's position as Viceroy, but reduced his powers. Diego resumed litigation in 1512 lasting until 1536, and further disputes continued until 1790.\n\nThe success of Columbus's first voyage touched off a series of westward explorations by European seafaring states. These states sought to exploit the New World's riches; build trade networks and colonies; and built the Indian reductions (settlements) to relocate, use the labor of, and attempt Christian conversions of the native people.\n\nWith the Age of Discovery starting in the 15th century, Europeans explored the world by ocean, searching for particular trade goods, humans to enslave, and trading locations and ports. The most desired trading goods were gold, silver and spices. Columbus did not reach Asia but rather found what was to the Europeans a New World, the Americas. For the Catholic monarchies of Spain and Portugal, a division of influence became necessary to avoid conflict. This was resolved by Papal intervention in 1494 when the Treaty of Tordesillas purported to divide the world between the two powers. The Portuguese were to receive everything outside of Europe east of a line that ran 270 leagues west of the Cape Verde Islands, thought to include the continents of Africa and Asia, but none of the New World. The Spanish received everything west of this line, territory that was still almost completely unknown, and proved to be primarily the vast majority of the continents of the Americas and the Islands of the Pacific Ocean. This arrangement was somewhat subverted in 1500, when the Portuguese navigator Pedro Álvares Cabral arrived at a point on the eastern coast of South America, and realized that it was on the Portuguese side of the dividing line between the two empires. This would lead to the Portuguese colonization of what is now Brazil.\n\nColumbus and other Iberian explorers were initially disappointed with their discoveries—unlike Africa or Asia, the Caribbean islanders had little to trade with the Castillo ships. The islands thus became the focus of colonization efforts. It was not until the continent itself was explored that Spain found the wealth it had sought in the form of abundant gold. In the Americas the Spanish found a number of empires that were as large and populous as those in Europe. However, small bodies of Spanish conquistadors, with large armies of indigenous groups, managed to conquer these states. The most notable amongst the conquered states were the Aztec Empire in modern Mexico (conquered in 1521) and the Inca Empire in modern Peru (conquered in 1532). During this time, pandemics of European disease such as smallpox devastated the indigenous populations. Once Spanish sovereignty was established, the Spanish focused on the extraction and export of gold and silver.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "227584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227584", "title": "Wildlife garden", "text": "Wildlife garden\n\nA wildlife garden (or wild garden) is an environment created by a gardener that serves as a sustainable haven for surrounding wildlife. Wildlife gardens contain a variety of habitats that cater to native and local plants, birds, amphibians, reptiles, insects, mammals and so on. Establishing a garden that emulates the environment before the residence was built, and/or renders the garden similar to intact wild areas nearby, will allow natural systems to interact and establish an equilibrium, ultimately minimizing the need for gardener maintenance and intervention. Wildlife gardens can also play an essential role in biological pest control, and also promote biodiversity, native plantings, and generally benefit the wider environment.\n\nBuilding a successful garden suitable for local wildlife is best accomplished through the use of multiple three-dimensional habitats with diverse structures that provide places for animals to nest and hide. Wildlife gardens may contain a range of habitats, including: \nLog piles – Preferably located in a shady area, a pile of logs is a sanctuary for insects and other invertebrates, as well as reptiles and amphibians. The organic structure is a shelter for both protection and breeding. In addition to logs, garden debris may also be added around the garden to be used as a natural mulch, fertilizer, weed control, soil amendment, and habitat for arthropod predators.\nBird feeding stations and bird houses – A place for birds to eat and take shelter will increase the number of birds in the garden, which play a key role in biological pest control. Not only will food and shelter increase the survival rate of birds, but it will also ensure that they are healthy enough for a successful breeding season. \nBug boxes and bee hotels – Bundles of hollow stems (elderberry, Joe-Pye weed, bamboo) can be hung up as an alternate place of shelter and breeding for beneficial insects, such as the Mason bee, which are valuable pollinators.\nSources of water – A water feature, such as a pond, has the potential to support a large biodiversity of wildlife. To maximize the amount of wildlife attracted to the water feature, it should consist of ranging depths. Shallow areas are used by birds to drink and by insects and amphibians to lay eggs. Deeper areas provide habitat for aquatic insects and a place for amphibians, or even fish to swim. \nPollinators – Flowers rich in nectar will attract bees and butterflies into the garden, which is of particular importance given the dramatic reduction in pollinator populations in the US, Europe and elsewhere. Wildflower meadows are an alternative option for lawns in the garden and will serve as a sanctuary for pollinators. However, pollinating plants should not be confused with plants suitable for butterfly breeding.\nPlant diversity – The garden should include a range of plant types to act as different habitats. A balance between ground cover, shrub, understory, and canopy species will allow different sized wildlife shelters that fit their individual needs. It is particularly important to use species that are native to the area or state, as native plants will reliably attract more insects and other invertebrates than foreign (non-native) plants; the increased number and variety of insects are valuable for their own sake and as an attraction for birds.\n\nAlthough some exotics may also be included, as discussed in the previous section, wild gardens usually mostly feature a variety of native species. Generally, these will be a part of the pre-existing natural ecology of an area, making them easier to grow than most exotic species. Choosing native plants comes with an array of benefits for both plant and animal diversity, especially the ability to support native insect and fungal populations.\nOrnamental plants on the market tend to lean toward “pest-free” plants, making it hard for native insects to adapt, and ultimately reducing their food supply. Decreases in insect populations due to excessive ornamental planting will discourage bird populations from inhabiting the area.\n\nInvasive species can always prove problematic in the garden due to the absence of natural predators and their ability to reproduce rapidly. Without any measures of control, invasive species can easily overtake native species in the garden. Addressing invasive plants can be done a variety of ways; however, to ensure the least amount of damage to the surrounding ecosystem, this is best done by cutting down the plant, followed by painting its stem with an herbicide, such as Roundup. The debris from the invasive species can be piled and used as a home for smaller critters. In Australia, it has been found that invasive species such as Lantana (\"Lantana camara\") can also provide refuge for bird species such as the superb fairywren (\"Malurus cyaneus\") and silvereye (\"Zosterops lateralis\"), in the absence of native plant equivalents. Careful thought about how to balance invasive species management with what is best for urban biodiversity is needed for the best outcome in your garden.\n\nWildlife gardens in the Netherlands are called \"heemtuinen\". The first was created in 1925: Thijsse's Hof (Garden of Thijsse) in Bloemendaal, near Haarlem. It was gifted to Jac. P. Thijsse on the occasion of his 60th anniversary, and still exists today. The garden gives a display of about 800 plants native to the dune region of South Kennemerland, in which the garden is situated. It is said to be one of the oldest wildlife gardens of its sort in the world.\n\nNowadays some 25 wildlife gardens exist in the Netherlands.\n\n\n"}
