{"id": "7923255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7923255", "title": "Andreas Hykade", "text": "Andreas Hykade\n\nAndreas Hykade (born 1968 in Altötting, Bavaria) is an animation director from Germany. Before studying at the Academy of Fine Arts in Stuttgart from 1988 to 1990, he attended König-Karlmann-Gymnasium Altötting. He worked as an animator in London in 1991, then studied animation at the Filmakademie Baden-Württemberg until 1995. Since then he works as animation director, partly at \"Studio Filmbilder\" in Stuttgart, and as the Professor for Animation at the Filmakademie Baden-Württemberg.\n\nHykade's trademark style is based on very simple characters which move in smooth animation. Sometimes, like in the two music videos for Gigi D'Agostino, there's just a line over a flat color, much like the classical \"La Linea\"-character of Osvaldo Cavandoli (to which they are a loving homage). Often his characters feature single strokes as arms and legs, in this Hykade is similar to German comic artist .\n\n\"We Lived in Grass\" (1995) is a student film and Hykade's first part of The Country Trilogy. The set of the film is a place just two streets away from the end of the world. The film is told from the point of view of a little boy. \"All women is whore and all men is soldier,\" the father of the boy says. \"So go into Grass and kill a tiger for the best tits you can find.\" As the father gets testicular cancer, a journey into Grass for the young hero begins. We lived in Grass won numerous awards including the German short film Price.\n\"Ring of Fire\" (2000) is the second part of The Country Trilogy. It is set in a bright and shining bazaar of sexual desires. The film is describing an archaic Machomyth and the desire of two cowboys to break with this myth. \"Ring of Fire\" won countless awards including the Grand Price at the Ottawa Animation Festival.\n\nIn 1995, Hykade, along with Gil Alkabetz and Film Bilder, were commissioned to do a series of network ID's and commercials for Nickelodeon UK.\n\n\"The Runt\" (2006) is Hykade's third and final part of The Country Trilogy. The once dead father of \"We Lived in Grass\" returns. \"I give you the runt,\" he says. \"But you take care of it and you kill it next year.\" With \"The Runt\", Hykade finished what he calls his early work.\n\nAt present, Hykade is working at his first feature-length film. During a live talk at the Bradford Animation Festival on 17 November 2006, he revealed that the film would revolve around the life of Jesus. Hykade did not reveal exactly how he would treat the project, but mentioned his admiration for the films \"Monty Python's Life of Brian\", \"The Last Temptation of Christ\" and \"Jesus Christ Superstar\".\n\nSince 2008, Hykade has taught animation at Harvard University.\n\n\nWhilst creating \"We Lived in Grass\" (1995) at the Filmakademie Baden-Württemberg, he met Philip Hunt. Hunt was employed as the animator in residence working on the award-winning short, \"Ah Pook is Here\". Hunt enlisted the help of the entire Academy staff, all apart from Hykade who continued producing his graduation piece.\n\nHowever, Hunt asserts that whilst Andreas escaped a role on the film, he was a motivational force in making AH POOK happen - if only for his good humour and support when the project was at its hardest. Hunt recently interviewed 'Hugi' on stage at the Bradford animation festival where a retrospective of Hykade's work was shown.\n\n"}
{"id": "44000786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44000786", "title": "Campus Explorer", "text": "Campus Explorer\n\nSince 2007, Campus Explorer, Inc., has helped higher education institutions recruit and enroll more than 100,000 students. A recipient of the Deloitte Fast 500 (seventh-fastest-growing Internet company in the U.S.), Campus Explorer continues to grow and bring innovative recruitment products and services to the higher-education industry.In November of 2018, Campus Explorer announced its corporate rebrand to Archer Education. \n\nEarly Funding\n\nIn the Summer of 2007, Campus Explorer raised a $1.65 million Series A investment from Rincon Venture Partners and O’Connor Ventures. In the first quarter of 2009, Campus Explorer reached more than 1 million visitors, which was up 55% from the end of 2008, setting the stage for $2.25 million in a Series B funding round led by investors OCA Ventures, Origin Ventures and Rincon Venture Partners. In 2010, Campus Explorer raised $5 million in a Series C funding round. The funding came from investors Vicente Capital Partners, OCA Ventures and Origin Ventures.\n\nAcclaim\n\nIn 2011, the Los Angeles winners of the Deloitte Fast 500 list of fastest-growing companies were announced, and Campus Explorer was awarded the \"Technology Rising Stars\" award with 1,497% revenue growth.\n\nBy 2013, Campus Explorer ranked the seventh fastest-growing Internet company in the United States. Campus Explorer grew 5,636% between 2008 and 2012.\n"}
{"id": "33871953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33871953", "title": "Comenius programme", "text": "Comenius programme\n\nThe Comenius programme is a European Union educational project. It concerns school-level education, and is part of the EU's Erasmus + 2014-2020 Programme. It aims \"to help young people and educational staff better understand the range of European cultures, languages and values\". \n\nIts name derives from the 17th-century Czech educator John Amos Comenius.\n\nThe program is focussed on several areas: \n\nThe goal of the program is to have participation of more than three million students and teachers in international activities, thus improving mobility of students and teachers in the EU.\n\n"}
{"id": "693567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=693567", "title": "Continuing education", "text": "Continuing education\n\nContinuing education (similar to further education in the United Kingdom and Ireland) is an all-encompassing term within a broad list of post-secondary learning activities and programs. The term is used mainly in the United States and Canada.\n\nRecognized forms of post-secondary learning activities within the domain include: degree credit courses by non-traditional students, non-degree career training, college remediation, workforce training, and formal personal enrichment courses (both on-campus and online).\n\nGeneral continuing education is similar to adult education, at least in being intended for adult learners, especially those beyond traditional undergraduate college or university age.\n\nFrequently, in the United States and Canada continuing education courses are delivered through a division or school of continuing education of a college or university known sometimes as the university extension or extension school. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development argued, however, that continuing education should be \"'fully integrated into institutional life rather than being often regarded as a separate and distinctive operation employing different staff' if it is to feed into mainstream programmes and be given the due recognition deserved by this type of provision\".\n\nGeorgetown University, Michigan State University, and the University of Denver have benefited from non-credit programs as it relates to strengthening partnerships with corporations and government agencies, helping to inform and shape the curriculum for degree programs, and generating revenue to support the academic enterprise.\n\nThe Chautauqua Institution, originally the Chautauqua Lake Sunday School Assembly, was founded in 1874 \"as an educational experiment in out-of-school, vacation learning. It was successful and broadened almost immediately beyond courses for Sunday school teachers to include academic subjects, music, art and physical education.\"\n\nCornell University was among higher education institutions that began offering university-based continuing education, primarily to teachers, through extension courses in the 1870s. As noted in the \"Cornell Era\" of February 16, 1877, the university offered a \"Tour of the Great Lakes\" program for \"teachers and others\" under the direction of Professor Theodore B. Comstock, head of Cornell's department of geology.\n\nThe University of Wisconsin–Madison began its continuing education program in 1907. The New School for Social Research, founded in 1919, was initially devoted to adult education. In 1969, Empire State College, a unit of the State University of New York, was the first institution in the US to exclusively focus on providing higher education to adult learners. In 1976 the University of Florida created its own Division of Continuing Education and most courses were offered on evenings or weekends to accommodate the schedules of working students.\n\nWithin the domain of continuing education, professional continuing education is a specific learning activity generally characterized by the issuance of a certificate or continuing education units (CEU) for the purpose of documenting attendance at a designated seminar or course of instruction. Licensing bodies in a number of fields (such as teaching and healthcare) impose continuing education requirements on members who hold licenses to continue practicing a particular profession. These requirements are intended to encourage professionals to expand their foundations of knowledge and stay up-to-date on new developments.\n\nDepending on the field, these requirements may be satisfied through college or university coursework, extension courses or conferences and seminars attendance. Although individual professions may have different standards, the most widely accepted standard, developed by the International Association for Continuing Education & Training, is that ten contact hours equals one Continuing Education Unit. Not all professionals use the CEU convention. For example, the American Psychological Association accredits sponsors of continuing education and uses simply a CE approach. In contrast to the CEU, the CE credit is typically one CE credit for each hour of contact.\n\nIn the spring of 2009, Eduventures, a higher education consulting firm, released the results of a study that illustrated that the recession had made a significant impact on the views of prospective continuing education students. A survey of 1,500 adults who planned to enroll in a course or program within the next two years determined that while nearly half of respondents believed that the value of education had risen due to the recession, over two-thirds said the state of the economy had affected their plans to pursue continuing education.\n\nThe World Bank's 2019 World Development Report on the future of work explains that flexible learning opportunities at universities and adult learning programs that allow workers to retrain and retool are vital in order for labor markets to adjust to the future of work.\n\nThe method of delivery of continuing education can include traditional types of classroom lectures and laboratories. However, many continuing education programs make heavy use of distance education, which not only includes independent study, but can also include videotaped material, broadcast programming or online education which has more recently dominated the distance learning community.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50353492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50353492", "title": "Early Learning House", "text": "Early Learning House\n\nEarly Learning House is a collection of four main educational video games and two compilations for the Windows and Macintosh platforms, developed by Theatrix Interactive, Inc. and published by Edmark software. Each different game focuses on a particular major learning category with selectable skill settings for preschooler, kindergarten and elementary learners. Millie's Math House (1992) on mathematics, Bailey's Book House (1993) on language, Sammy's Science House (1994) on science, and Trudy's Time and Place House (1995) on history and geography. A spin-off, Stanley's Sticker Stories (1996), sees players create animated storybooks with the series' characters. Millie & Bailey Preschool and Millie & Bailey Kindergarten each contain the combined activities from two of the four software products. In addition the programs can be configured by an adult mode to suit students with special needs. Most of the activities in every game have two modes, one to allow learners to explore and try it out for themselves and the other for learners to follow specific tasks set by the game characters. Learners also have the option to print pictures of creative activities and record sounds in phonics activities. Later the games were re-developed by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Learning Technology and re-published by The Learning Company with newer graphics and additional activities.\n\nERAC created an agreement with IBM Canada's K-12 Division, with support from the British Columbia Ministry of Education, to provide The Edmark House Series software to British Canadian schools and districts for free. Enhanced versions of the products were announced on September 25, 1995, which included new activities, added difficulty levels, and a Dear Parents Video Presentation.\n\nThe purpose of the series is to \"provide students with a positive environment to explore early learning concepts\".\n\nMillie's Math House was released on October 1992 (Enhanced in August 1995) and stars the cow Millie. It primarily focuses on counting, quantities and simple figures divided into nine different activities (seven in earlier versions and six in first versions). Bailey's Book House was released on June 1993, and stars the cat Bailey. It primarily focuses on reading, playing with words and phonics divided into nine different activities (seven in earlier versions and five in first version). Sammy's Science House was released on June 1994, and stars the snake Sammy. It primarily focuses on biology, experiments and matter divided into seven different activities (five in earlier versions). The Windows 95 version of the game was shipped July 31, 1995. Trudy's Time and Place House was released on September 1995, and stars the crocodile Trudy. It primarily focuses on geography, simulation and time divided into seven different activities (five in earlier versions). Edmark also released software with two house series combined together which included half of the respective software's activities: Millie & Bailey Preschool and Millie & Bailey Kindergarten.\n\nThe New York Times deemed \"Edmark\" an \"impressive series\", adding that \"all four programs are a lot of fun\".\n\nA reviewer from SuperKids said Millie's Math House was an \"excellent introductory math program for pre-schoolers\" that was both educational and fun, while adding that the sound and graphics were adequate. A reviewer from TechWithKids thought the title was \"well thought out\" and offered a \"supportive\" environment within which the player could learn, noting that it was suitable for both the classroom and home.\n\nA reviewer from SuperKids said Bailey's Book House was a \"classic\" and a \"must-have\" within the early learning genre. Charles Law of \"PC Alamode\" \"Magazine\" said the game was \"multifaceted\", and thought it would help young learners \"catch up and keep up\".\n\nIn Jill Fain Lehman's article \"A Review of Kids' Software for Children with ASD\", she deemed the activity Sorting Station from Sammy's Science House a \"very good classification game\". Ellen Adams wrote that the title offered an \"excellent\" introduction to science for young children, and thought that the game's entertainment was heightened due to the \"constant encouragement\". Childhood Education said the game was an \"inviting exploration program\" and \"excellent introduction\" to the subject matter.\n\n\"MacUser\" gave \"Trudy's Time and Place House\" a perfect 5 out of 5 score, and named it one of 1996's top 50 CD-ROMs.\n\nThe Early Learning House games had earned 40 awards around the time of their creation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1449639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1449639", "title": "Education International", "text": "Education International\n\nEducation International (EI) is a global union federation (GUF) of teachers' trade unions consisting of 401 member organizations in 172 countries and territories that represents over 30 million education personnel from pre-school through university. This makes it the world's largest sectoral global union federation.\n\nEducation International is the voice of teachers and other education employees around the globe. It promotes the principle that quality education, funded publicly, should be available to every student in every country regardless of race. Education International advocates for equity in society by working to combat xenophobia and racism, and challenging discrimination on the grounds of gender, sexual orientation, socio-economic status, and racial or ethnic origin or characteristics. In addition, Education International assists the development of independent democratic organizations to represent teachers and other education employees that represent and promote the interests of teachers and other education employees on the international level. The organization also works with other global federations of unions to promote and achieve solidarity in education.\n\nPrior to the 1950s, teacher and other education unions played little role in international trade union federations. In 1912, the International Committee of National Federations of Teachers in Public Secondary Schools was established in Belgium. Internationally, it was known as FIPESO, an acronym derived from its French name: The Federation Internationale des Professeurs de l'Enseignement Secondaire Officiel. In 1923, the National Education Association (NEA) founded the World Federation of Education Associations (WFEA) in San Francisco. Then in 1926, the International Federation of Teachers' Associations (IFTA) was formed. The same year, the International Trade Secretariat of Teachers (ITST), a grouping of teachers' unions affiliated with the International Federation of Trade Unions (IFTU), was established. But few of these organizations obtained membership of any size, joined the International Labour Organization (ILO), or proved influential. Many were international in name only, with membership usually coming from a few European nations. Except for the WFEA (which was dominated by the NEA), most ceased to function during World War II.\n\nA significant reorganization of the international trade union movement occurred in the wake of the second world war. The World Federation of Trade Unions (WFTU) was founded in October 1945 to bring together trade unions across the world in a single international organization. But a number of conservative Western labor federations, notably the American Federation of Labor (AFL), felt that trade unions from Communist countries were government-dominated. Their inclusion, it was feared, would lead to domination of the WFTU by the Soviet Union. In 1949, the AFL and other trade unions formed the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU), an international organization which rejected communist or communist-led trade unions.\n\nInternational education trade centers also underwent a reorganization. The WFEA broadened its membership and was renamed the World Organization of the Teaching Profession (WOTP) in 1946. The same year, the ITST affiliated with the WFTU. But the split over communism in the WFTU affected the international education secretariats as well. In 1948, several socialist and communist teachers' unions formed the World Federation of Teachers Unions (known as FISE from its French title, Fédération Internationale Syndicale de l'Enseignement) in Budapest. Most non-communist national teachers' unions refused to join FISE. IFTA, FIPESO and FISE formed a liaison group, the Joint Committee of International Teachers' Federations, the same year. But the American-dominated WOTP refused to join. In 1951, following the split in the WFTU and the creation of the anti-communist ICFTU, two new international education secretariats were created. WOTP, FIPESO and the IFTA formed the World Confederation of Organizations of the Teaching Profession (WCOTP). The AFL (primary backer of the ICFTU) and its teacher union (the American Federation of Teachers) pushed the ICFTU to form its own international secretariat to compete with the much more liberal WCOTP. The conservative and determinedly anti-communist International Federation of Free Teachers' Unions (IFFTU) was created the same year as the WCOTP. FISE, meanwhile, affiliated with the WFTU.\n\nThe IFFTU remained the much smaller organization until the mid-1970s. Although both the WCOTP and IFFTU gained members through the next 25 years, by 1976 the IFFTU represented unions with only 2.3 million members while the WCOTP represented unions with more than 20 million members. The WCOTP worked closely with the United Nations, UNESCO and the ILO to study the problems of teachers throughout the world, and focused much of its attention on Africa and Asia. For the first 15 years of its existence, the WCOTP worked heavily on a draft UNESCO instrument which would create a consensus on the status, salaries, and protections teachers should have. The final document, \"Recommendation Concerning the Status of Teachers,\" was adopted by UNESCO on October 5, 1966.\n\nThe IFFTU and WCOTP remained strong rivals, each organization's policies and actions often reflecting the rivalry between the NEA and AFT (which were their respective secretariat's largest members). But the surge in growth in AFT membership in the 1960s and 1970s significantly improved the membership figures of the IFFTU. A turn away from radical political views by a number of European, African and Asian education unions led a number of national organizations to disaffiliate from the WCOTP and join the IFFTU.\n\nOn January 26, 1993, the WCOTP and IFFTU merged at a convention in Stockholm to form Education International. The stronger membership of the IFFTU at WCOTP expense led both organizations to see merger as a resolution to continuing conflict and competition, and merger was strongly advocated by AFT president Albert Shanker. The collapse of Soviet bloc communist also helped to remove lingering political differences between the two groups (as well as the reason for the IFFTU's existence). Merger was first proposed in 1985, talks became serious in 1988, and merger achieved five years later. Shanker was elected EI's founding president.\n\nEducation International is a democratic organization which is governed by a World Congress. Any national organization composed predominantly of teachers and/or education employees may belong. Each member is entitled to at least one delegate (up to a maximum of 50 delegates) for every 10,000 members or fraction thereof. Voting rights are more expansive than delegates, however. Each member with up to 5,000 members receives one vote, but organizations with more than 5,000 members receive an additional vote for every 5,000 members. There is no cap on the number of votes a member organization may cast. For large organizations (such as those in the United States, Canada and Europe), this means each delegate may cast tens or even hundreds of votes. A World Congress composed of delegates meets every three years, at a place set by the Executive Board. The World Congress elects the President, Vice Presidents, General Secretary and members of the Executive Board; determines the policies and program of the organization; and adopts the budget and sets membership fees.\n\nAn Executive Board governs the organization between meetings of the World Congress. In addition to the President and five Vice-Presidents, the Executive Board has two additional Board members elected from each region, nine at-large members, and the General Secretary. At least one member from each region must be a woman. The term of office for a Board member is three years (the time between World Congresses), and members are limited to two consecutive terms. The Board meets at least once a year.\n\nThere are seven officers of EI. The President is the primary officer and spokesperson for the organization. The General Secretary is the primary executive officer, and has day-to-day oversight of EI. The EI constitution establishes five geographical regions, and each region is represented by a Vice-President. At least three of the six non-executive offices (e.g., President and Vice-Presidents) must be women. The officers and General Secretary must meet at least once a year, between Executive Board meetings.\n\nEI's daily operations are overseen by a Secretariat. The Secretariat is run by a Deputy General Secretary appointed by the Executive Board in consultation with the General Secretary. The EI Secretariat is located in Brussels, Belgium. The regional offices are located in the following:\n\nThe EI constitution also establishes largely autonomous regional structures to carry out work appropriate for each geographic region. Each regional body adopts its own constitution and by-laws (although these must be in accordance with the EI constitution), holds its own congresses and meetings, establishes dues and budgets, and carries out programs.\n\nEI is affiliated with the International Trade Union Confederation and enjoys formal associate relations with UNESCO, including the International Bureau of Education (IBE), and has consultative status with the UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC).\n\nEducation International’s principal aims are:\n\n\nThe Education International has campaigned for the release of the leader of Bahrain's teachers' union, Mahdi 'Issa Mahdi Abu Dheeb. The campaign is hosted on LabourStart.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2675092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2675092", "title": "Education in Belgium", "text": "Education in Belgium\n\nEducation in Belgium is regulated and for the most part financed by one of the three communities: Flemish, French and German-speaking. Each community has its own school system, with small differences among them. The federal government plays a very small role: it decides directly the age for mandatory schooling and indirectly the financing of the communities.\n\nThe schools can be divided in three groups (; ):\nThe latter is the largest group, both in number of schools and in number of pupils.\n\nEducation in Belgium is compulsory between the ages of 6 and 18 or until one graduates from secondary school.\n\nIn the past there were conflicts between state schools and Catholic schools, and disputes regarding whether the latter should be funded by the government (see first and second School Wars). The 1958 School Pact was an agreement by the three large political parties to end these conflicts.\n\nThe 1981 state reform transferred some matters from the federal Belgian level to the communities. In 1988, the majority of educational matters were transferred. Nowadays, very few general matters are regulated on a national level. The current ministries for education are the Flemish Government, the Government of the French Community and the Government of the German-speaking Community for each community respectively. Brussels, being bilingual French-Dutch, has schools provided by both the Flemish and French-speaking community. Municipalities with language facilities often have schools provided by two communities (Dutch-French or German-French) as well.\n\nThe different stages of education are the same in all communities:\n\nFree pre-primary schooling (; ; ) is provided to every child from the age of 2 years 6 months. In most schools the child can start in school as soon as they reach this age, so class size for the youngest children grows during the year. In the Flemish region, start dates are limited to 6 per year, after a school holiday period and the first school day in February.\n\nThe aim of pre-school is to develop, in a playful way, children's cognitive skills, their capacity to express themselves and communicate, their creativity and independence. There are no formal lessons or assessments, and everything is taught through a framework of play.\n\nAlthough it is not compulsory, more than 90% of all children in the age category attend pre-school.\n\nMost pre-schools are attached to a particular primary school. Preschools and primary schools often share buildings and other facilities. Some schools offer special pre-primary education for children with disabilities or other special needs.\n\nPrimary school (; ; ) consists of six years and the subjects taught are generally the same at all schools. Primary schooling is free and age is the only entrance requirement.\n\nPrimary education is divided into three cycles (; ):\n\nEducation in primary schools is rather traditional: it concentrates on reading, writing and basic mathematics, but also touches already a very broad range of topics (biology, music, religion, history, etc.). School usually starts about 8:30 and finishes around 15:30. A lunch time break is usually provided from 12:00 to 13:30. Wednesday afternoon, Saturday and Sunday are free. While morning lessons often concentrate on reading, writing and basic mathematics, lessons in the afternoon are usually about other topics like biology, music, religion, history or \"do it yourself\" activities.\n\nFlemish schools in Brussels and some municipalities near the language border, must offer French lessons starting from the first or the second year. Most other Flemish schools offer French education in the third cycle. Some of the latter schools offer non-mandatory French lessons already in the second cycle. Primary schools in the French Community must teach another language, which is generally Dutch or English, depending on the school. Primary schools in the German Community have obligatory French lessons.\n\nThere are also some private schools set up to serve various international communities in Belgium (e.g. children of seafarers or European diplomats), mainly around the larger cities. Some schools offer special primary education for children with disabilities or other special needs.\n\nWhen graduating from primary school around the age of 12, students enter secondary education. Here they have to choose a course that they want to follow, depending on their skill level and interests.\n\nSecondary education consists of three cycles (; ; ):\nThe Belgian secondary education grants the pupils more choice as they enter a higher cycle. The first cycle provides a broad general basis, with only a few options to choose from (such as Latin, additional mathematics and technology). This should enable students to orient themselves in the most suitable way towards the many different courses available in the second and third stages. The second and third cycle are much more specific in each of the possible directions. While the youngest pupils may choose at the most two or four hours per week, the oldest pupils have the opportunity to choose between different \"menus\": like Mathematics and Science, Economics and Languages or Latin and Greek. They are then able to shape the largest part of the time they spend at school. However, some core lessons are compulsory like the first language and sport, etc. This mix between compulsory and optional lessons grouped in menus, makes it possible to keep class structures even for the oldest students.\n\nSecondary school is divided into four general types. Each type consists of a set of different directions that may vary from school to school. The general types are as follows:\n\nStudents with disabilities can follow Special Secondary Education (; BuSO; ), of different types.\n\nHigher education in Belgium is organized by the two main communities, the Flemish Community and the French Community. German speakers typically enroll in institutions in the French Community or in Germany.\n\nFlanders' higher education in separated between Universities (5 universities, \"universiteiten\") and University Colleges (\"hogescholen\"). The French Community organises higher education in Universities (6 universities), but makes a difference between the two types of schools that make up University Colleges : \"Hautes écoles\" and \"Écoles supérieures des Arts\" (a limited number of artistic institutions allowed to process selection of incoming students).\n\nIn Belgium anybody with a qualifying diploma of secondary education is free to enroll at any institute of higher education of their choosing. The 4 major exceptions to this rule are those wanting to pursue a degree in:\n\nThe registration fee for any university or college is fixed by the government of the French-speaking or the Dutch-speaking community, and indexed yearly. Depending on whether the student is eligible and applies for financial aid, there are 3 prices:\n\n\nThe financial aid awarded by the community governments depends on the income of the student's family, and other familial circumstances, but is never more than approximately €5,000 per year. The aid is not at all based on the student's results, however, students who fail too many classes can lose their financial aid.\n\nPrior to the adoption of the Bologna process, the Belgian higher education system had the following degrees:\n\n\nA University education was not considered finished until the licentiate diploma is obtained. Occasionally it was possible to switch specializations after obtaining the candidate diploma. For example, a student with a mathematics candidate diploma was often allowed to start in the third year of computer science class. Sometimes a graduate diploma was also accepted as an equivalent to a candidate diploma (with additional courses if necessary), allowing for 2 or 3 more years of education at a University.\n\nSince the adoption of the Bologna process in most European countries, the higher education system in Belgium follows the Bachelor/Master system:\n\n\nAfter obtaining a Master's degree, talented students can pursue research projects leading to a doctorate degree. PhDs are only awarded by Universities, but theses can be written at University Colleges or Art Schools, in collaboration with and published by a University.\n\nIn the 2003 PISA-study of secondary school students by the OECD, the Belgian students scored relatively highly. The results of the Dutch-speaking students were significantly higher than the scores of the German-speaking students which were in turn significantly higher than the French-speaking students.\n\nThe United Nations Education Index, which is measured by the adult literacy rate and the combined primary, secondary, and tertiary gross enrolment ratio, ranks Belgium on the 18th place in the world as of 2011. A 2007 study found that violence experienced by teachers in francophone Belgium was a significant factor in decisions to leave the teaching profession.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37584311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37584311", "title": "Eight dimensional e-learning framework", "text": "Eight dimensional e-learning framework\n\nBadrul Khan's eight-dimensional e-learning framework is a detailed self-assessment instrument for institutions to organize their evaluation of educational technology (e-learning) readiness and opportunities for growth. The framework provides a structure for systematically reviewing initiatives and programs, so that desired learning outcomes are achieved. The framework is composed of eight dimensions, each reviewed by practical checklists of 50 - 70 questions. The checklist does not include a scoring system, but serves as an instrument that verifies that each area is cultivated.\n\nPublic and private educational institutions, corporations and government agencies have been transferring their courses and professional development training from traditional, on site instruction to web-based instruction. The programs are systematically assessed by frameworks that guide design, development and implementation of online programs.\n\nSeveral successful educational technology (e-learning) frameworks have been developed, including:\n\nAligning organizational training goals and plans towards a design framework can benefit the stakeholders (i.e., administrators, designers, developers, and users), as well as improve the overall success and effectiveness of the program. Existing educational technology programs hoping to streamline, modernize, or reform current practices and systems can utilize one of the aforementioned frameworks to ensure success.\n\nKhan's framework was developed as a response to questions from readers requesting to see exemplars of effective Web-based instruction as defined in \"Web-Based Instruction\" (1997). The framework does not constitute a model because it does not prescribe a specific process for developing educational technology environments. However, it does take into consideration the design, development, delivery, and evaluation of web-based and hybrid instruction and can provide guidance in:\n\n\nThe framework consists of eight dimensions, sometimes referred to as factors. Each dimension represents a category of issues that need to be considered in order to create successful experiences. The framework offers a practical and detailed checklist to serve as a self-assessment instrument for institutions to evaluate their educational technology readiness or their opportunities for growth.\n\nThe pedagogical dimension addresses issues such as content analysis, audience analysis, goal analysis, design, and methods and strategies which assess the principles and methods of instruction (i.e., teaching and learning). It addresses how the content of a course is designed; identifies the learner's needs; and how the learning objectives will be achieved. This dimension also addresses the delivery method for the course activities and the appropriateness of the online environment for achieving the learning goals of its intended audience. When strictly face-to-face or online approaches are not feasible, the pedagogical dimension addresses the issues that enable stakeholders to prescribe alternatives, including a blended learning approach that combines elements of on-site and online instruction.\n\nThe technological dimension assesses the hardware, software, and infrastructure planning. It also addresses issues pertaining to the selection of the most suitable learning management system (LMS) and communication tools (i.e., audio and video conferencing platforms) for achieving the institution's learning goals and objectives. Technical requirements such as the server capacities, bandwidth, security, backups, and other infrastructure issues are also addressed.\n\nThe interface design dimension addresses issues five sub-dimensions that pertain to the overall look and feel of an educational technology course or program: web design, content design, navigation, accessibility, and usability testing. For online learners the user interface is the first thing they see when they login to a course. The first impression students get from a course or program is often based on the site's user interface appearance and ease of use.\n\nThe evaluation dimension addresses the assessment of learners; evaluation of the instruction and learning environment; assessment of content development processes and of the persons involved in the design process (i.e., the planning team, design team, production team, and evaluation team); review of instructional design processes (i.e., planning, design, development and evaluation); and evaluation of e-learning at the program and institutional levels.\n\nThe management dimension addresses the continuation, updating, and upkeep of the learning environment. This continuation may be used to determine whether the educational technology atmosphere is performing adequately, and whether the instruction is meeting its intent. This dimension also addresses issues of quality control, budgeting, staffing, security, and scheduling.\n\nThe resource support dimension considers all of the technical and human resources support required to create meaningful and successful online learning environments. Examples of the support services include web-based and telephone technical support, digital libraries, online tutorials, newsletters, journals, podcasts, glossaries, FAQs, and career counseling services.\n\nThe ethical dimension addresses issues pertaining to social and political influence, diversity, bias, the digital divide, information accessibility, etiquette, and legal issues. Legal issues include privacy, plagiarism and copyright issues.\n\nThe institutional dimension addresses three sub-dimensions: issues of administrative affairs, academic affairs and student services related to educational technology. Administrative affairs issues relate to admissions, financial aid, registration and payment, informational technology services, graduation, and grades. Academic Affairs refers to accreditation, policy, instructional quality, faculty and support staff, and class size. Student services is a wide field that covers everything from counseling and library support to book store, internships, and alumni affairs. Before a fully online program is launched, each of the aforementioned issues must be addressed for a smooth implementation. Online students should not be required to set foot on campus to participate in or take advantage of student services.\n\n"}
{"id": "22460781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22460781", "title": "European Council for Business Education", "text": "European Council for Business Education\n\nThe European Council for Business Education (ECBE) was founded in 1991 as an independent, not-for-profit organisation headquartered in Belgium. The aim of ECBE is to accredit schools of business from across Europe to ensure excellence in business education and teaching. ECBE's accreditation process is based upon self and peer evaluation, aimed to ensure the continual improvement of educational quality. ECBE is overseen by a Board of Directors elected from the accredited members. A separate Board of Commissioners, independent of the Board of Directors are selected to oversee the application of procedures and the awarding of accreditation. ECBE is a registered affiliate of the European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education (ENQA). and Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) International Quality Group (IQG) \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18568409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18568409", "title": "Eye Level Learning", "text": "Eye Level Learning\n\nEye Level Learning, formerly known as E.nopi, offers supplementary educational programs from Daekyo. The name \"Eye Level Learning\" is used internationally whilst in South Korea, where Daekyo is headquartered, it is named \"Noonnoppi\" () meaning \"eye level\".\n\nEstablished in 1976, Daekyo provides a systematic learning method developed by Dr. Young Joong Kang. The program consists of Eye Level Math, which includes Basic and Critical Thinking Math, Eye Level English which includes four main concepts (reading, writing, speaking, and listening) and Eye Level Korean.\n\nEye Level has centers and student enrollment throughout North America and Asia. More than 2.5 million children in 25 countries have benefited from the Eye Level program. Eye Level Learning centers are located around the world. Eye Level Franchise provides its franchisees with thorough training and comprehensive ongoing support.\n\nEye Level Math has two main sections: Basic Thinking Math and Critical Thinking Math. In Basic Thinking Math, students focus on the arithmetic part of mathematics (addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division). In Critical Thinking Math, students focus on patterns and relationships, geometry, problem solving, measurement and reasoning. Students are assigned to their levels based on test results, not by their grade levels. The \"eye level\" name means to look at the problem from the children's level. A teacher should get down to the child's level and see the problem to better assist them in solving it. \n\nEye Level English focuses on four main fundamental skills: Reading, Listening, Writing, and Speaking. Within the program, students have the ability to reinforce their English skills with such activities as Active Listening, writing prompts, and phonics.\n\nEye Level Chinese (Only in China) is reviewed by Beijing University. It focuses on listening, speaking, reading and writing. They learn about Chinese characters by role-playing, songs, games and other engaging activities.\n\nEye Level works through the No Child Left Behind Act. Eye Level offers tutoring known as Supplemental Education Services. Eye Level is an approved provider in the following U.S. states: California, Connecticut, Illinois, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Texas.\n\n"}
{"id": "57494207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57494207", "title": "Flourish of approval", "text": "Flourish of approval\n\nA flourish of approval or \"krul\" is a mostly Dutch symbol used for grading schoolwork or to show that one has seen and agreed with a paragraph. The \"krul\" first appeared in the early 19th century together with the rising bureaucracy in the Netherlands. Historians believe that the symbol is derived from a hastily written 'g' which would stand for good (\"goed\") or seen (\"gezien\"). The symbol is rarely used outside of the Netherlands apart from (former) Dutch colonies like Indonesia, South Africa, the Netherlands Antilles and Suriname.\n\nDespite its wide usage throughout the country and its former colonies there is no unicode symbol for this. \n"}
{"id": "40790874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40790874", "title": "Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender Round Table", "text": "Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender Round Table\n\nThe Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender Round Table (GLBTRT) is part of the American Library Association and is dedicated to serving and meeting the information needs of LGBT individuals. The Round Table also serves library professionals who are LGBT. One of the core values of the ALA is to reflect the diversity of the United States by \"providing a full spectrum of resources and services to the communities [they] serve.\"\n\nThe GLBTRT provides an online toolkit for library professionals who want to promote or display LGBT materials. The toolkit also explains how to deal with complaints from the public.\n\nIn 1970, the GLBTRT was formed. It was originally called the Task Force on Gay Liberation, and it was formed within the American Library Association. It is the oldest LGBT professional organization in the United States. Barbara Gittings became its coordinator in 1971.\n\nIn the early 1970s, the GLBTRT (then called the Task Force on Gay Liberation) campaigned to have books about the gay liberation movement at the Library of Congress reclassified from HQ 71–471 (\"Abnormal Sexual Relations, Including Sexual Crimes\"). In 1972, after receiving a letter requesting the reclassification, the Library of Congress agreed to make the shift, reclassifying those books into a newly created category, HQ 76.5 (\"Homosexuality, Lesbianism—Gay Liberation Movement, Homophile Movement\").\n\nIn 1971 the GLBTRT created the first award for GLBT books, the Stonewall Book Award, which celebrates books of exceptional merit that relate to LGBT issues. \"Patience and Sarah\" by Alma Routsong (pen name Isabel Miller) was the first winner.\n\nIn 1992, American Libraries published a photo of the GLBTRT (then called the Gay and Lesbian Task Force) on the cover of its July/August issue, drawing both criticism and praise from the library world. Some commenters called the cover \"in poor taste\" and accused American Libraries of \"glorifying homosexuality,\" while others were supportive of the move. Christine Williams, who wrote an essay about the controversy surrounding the cover, concluded that in the mid-90s, the library world was \"not an especially welcoming place to gays and lesbians.\"\n\nIn 2010, the GLBTRT announced a new committee, the Over the Rainbow Committee. This committee annually compiles a bibliography of books that show the GLBT community in a favorable light and reflects the interests of adults. The bibliographies provide guidance to libraries in the selection of positive GLBT materials.The bibliographies are split by age with the Rainbow Book List providing material for children and teens, and the Over the Rainbow Book List supplying titles for adults.\n\nIn 2015, ALA's Office for Diversity, Literacy, and Outreach Services and the GLBTRT assumed oversight of GBLT Book month which occurs annually in June. Their efforts to increase visibility of GLBT material included promoting the Rainbow Books and the Over the Rainbow Books lists, marketing on social media using a specific hashtag, and providing resources for libraries to participate in GLBT Book month.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30104686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30104686", "title": "Gifted Education Resource Institute, Purdue University", "text": "Gifted Education Resource Institute, Purdue University\n\nThe Gifted Education Resource Institute (GERI) is a multidimensional center dedicated to the study, discovery, and development of human potential. It was founded by John F. Feldhusen in 1977 and is situated in the College of Education, Purdue University in West Lafayette, Indiana. GERI’s mission is holistic development of giftedness, creativity, and talent among individuals throughout their lifespan. This is accomplished through enrichment programs for talented youth, graduate programs for future scholars and leaders, professional development and coursework for educators, and ongoing research on the psychology of giftedness, creativity, and talent development.\nGERI faculty and staff work with P-12 educators in developing and improving services for gifted, creative, and talented children, as well as training school teachers and administrators in gifted education. In addition, GERI has developed several programs for talented youth. The Super Saturday program, a six-week enrichment program, was created in the spring of 1976. In 1977, GERI began Summer Residential Camps, aimed at providing a preview of college life to talented students. \n\nThe talent development programs at GERI help talented students explore their areas of interest in a college atmosphere where they study topics typically not offered in school. Together, students learn challenging content and create meaningful projects in which they apply their learning in new and relevant ways. Participation in GERI programs provides students in-depth and clear understanding of the fields they might like to pursue. Many students attend GERI Talent Development Programs for multiple years.\n\nEvery summer, for over 34 years, GERI has engaged gifted, creative, and talented students from across the country and around the world in residential camps designed to stimulate their imagination and expand their abilities. Students who have completed grades 5 through 12 live in campus residence halls, take challenging courses, and participate in engaging recreational activities. \nGERI offers three programs each summer. \nThe application process includes:\n\nThe Super Summer and Super Saturday programs are two enrichment programs designed to meet the needs of academically, creatively, and artistically gifted students from Pre-Kindergarten (age 4) through grade 8. The courses include science, technology, engineering, mathematics, visual and performing arts, as well as original interdisciplinary studies. Super Saturday is offered both fall and spring semesters for six Saturdays, and Super Summer is offered week days during the summer for two, one-week sessions. \nResearch on these programs found that students had positive experiences, learned new, above-grade-level concepts, and participated in interactive learning.\n\nThe internationally recognized Ph.D. and master's degree programs in gifted, creative, and talented studies attract students from across the country and around the world. Working closely with faculty scholars as mentors, students prepare for productive leadership roles in research, teaching, and program development. Funding may be available to support exceptional students pursuing full-time Ph.D. study.\n\nThe accredited licensure program is available online and on campus for teachers interested in adding a high-ability license to their Indiana teaching credentials or as a certificate in gifted, creative, and talented studies for educators in other states and countries. In this program, educators develop the knowledge and skills to meet the cognitive, affective, and social needs of gifted, creative and talented learners. They learn to how to develop and differentiate curriculum and instruction; and they prepare for leadership and teaching roles in working with and developing programs for gifted, creative, and talented students\n\nThe faculty and graduate students at GERI engage in cutting-edge research that informs and influences theory and practice. Some examples include: \n\nFaculty and staff conduct professional development related to their research using online, on-site, and campus-based delivery methods, engaging educators from across the United States and from schools worldwide.\n\nGERI official website, Purdue University\n\nJack Kent Cooke Foundation\n\nNational Association for Gifted Children\n"}
{"id": "1572443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1572443", "title": "Higher Certificate", "text": "Higher Certificate\n\nThe Higher Certificate (\"Ardteastas\" in Irish) is a third level education award at level 6 on the National Framework of Qualifications in the Republic of Ireland.The Higher Certificate is awarded by various Institutes of Technology. A Higher Certificate academic programme is two years of full-time study. Students can complete an additional (add-on) year to obtain the Ordinary Bachelors degree (level 7 on the National Framework of Qualifications), and may then complete a further add-on year to obtain the Honours Bachelors degree (level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications). The Higher Certificate is, in effect, two years of a four year undergraduate degree. The Higher Certificate should not be confused with the Advanced Certificate which is a two year Post-Leaving Certificate (PLC) program of further education, typically delivered by community colleges, and is also awarded at level 6 on the National Framework of Qualifications and can be used to gain entry to a third level undergraduate program.\n\n"}
{"id": "38320285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38320285", "title": "History of the English language (education)", "text": "History of the English language (education)\n\nIn English-language education, History of the English language (HEL) is a commonly required class for students in English studies and Education, though in the nineteenth and early twentieth century it was often required of all US college students.\n\nSince HEL is often the only linguistics class required of English majors and Education students, it usually includes a basic introduction to linguistic concepts and theories (on phonetics, dialects, language families, etc.) as well as the historical stages of English--Old English, Middle English, Early Modern English, and Modern English.\n\nAmong the topics which may be taught in HEL are the following: origin and development of the language; vocabulary and etymology; meaning and expression; the role of reference books and dictionaries; varieties of spoken English.\n\nThe need for HEL, as perceived by college professors and (English) department heads, was found to vary widely in a poll of department heads done in 1952. The poll asked heads to comment on the selection of language courses they'd require an MA candidate who applies for a teaching position to have taken; of 46 heads, 20 marked HEL, more than any other option (including advanced grammar, Old English, Chaucer, etc.). The author of the study noted that at the time no graduate courses in language study were required for the MA programs at many notable institutions, including Cornell, Johns Hopkins, Ohio State, and Penn State. The occasional passionate plea is made to promote HEL—J. E. Graves notes in a 1956 article in \"College English\" that proper courses in HEL are necessary for any future English teacher, and bemoans the perceived shoving aside of \"language study in high school with non-rigorous semantics and 'learning situations.'\" One such plea came in 1961 from Albert C. Baugh, professor of English at the University of Pennsylvania and author of \"A History of the English Language\", who \"justified\" HEL by arguing that it teaches skills necessary for teachers of literature who often have students read older texts (Baugh cites Shakespeare throughout), including etymology (and the history of word changes), pronunciation and accentuation, and grammar and idiom.\n\nMany, though by no means all, scholars of education suggest the importance of HEL. Marcia Henry, taking the Orton-Gillingham approach for dyslexic children as a structural starting point, argues that teaching the subject aids students in decoding and spelling.\n\nIn the field of English education, a field now often referred to as English Language Arts in which HEL is often required, the position of history of the English language is tenuous: it is not universally acknowledged that elementary and high-school students need to be taught anything about the subject. James Ney, a linguist at Arizona State University, argues that the shift in contemporary linguistics toward transformational grammar has taken attention away from historical linguistics. Ney's study of high-school textbooks suggested that history of English only takes up a minute amount of coverage; if it is there at all, it pertains to etymology and dictionary usage. Though some curriculum proposals (some of which very ambitious; Ney singles out the 1968 Atlanta Regional Curriculum Project) did promote a more rigorous study of the subject in elementary and high school, no discernible impact seems to have been made on actual school curricula.\n\n"}
{"id": "35128723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35128723", "title": "Institute of Public Administration and Management", "text": "Institute of Public Administration and Management\n\nThe Institute of Public Administration and Management (IPAM) is an institute of the University of Sierra Leone. It operates like other constituent colleges of the University of Sierra Leone, under the authority of the University Senate and the University Court. IPAM is in the centre of Freetown at AJ Momoh Street, Tower Hill, close to the British Council, Statistics Sierra Leone, the West African Examination Council (WAEC) and the National Fire Force headquarters. The institute has four departments offering a range of business, information technology, finance and public administration courses to the public.\n\nThe establishment of IPAM can be traced to 1970. It came as a result of a government white paper on education which proposed the closure of the Civil Service Training College. The responsibility for the training of middle- and upper-level staff was transferred to Fourah Bay College and that of the clerical cadre to the Freetown Technical Institute.\n\nSubsequent review by the World Bank suggested the need for a more specialised establishment in public administration and management. Discussions between the World Bank and the government of Sierra Leone resulted in the decision to establish the Institute of Public Administration and Management as an institute of the University of Sierra Leone.\n\nFunds were made available under the Second IDA Education Project for construction of suitable accommodation for the institute. The building on the site of the then Civil Service Training College was occupied in June 1980 and the institute started work in the 1980/81 academic year. \n\nThe institute is managed by a dean of campus (formerly director) who reports directly to the vice-chancellor and principal of the University of Sierra Leone. A management team comprises the dean of campus, assistant dean of campus, deputy registrar and all heads of departments (administrative and academic).\n\nThe main functions of the institute include:\n\n"}
{"id": "7655960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7655960", "title": "International Association for Jazz Education", "text": "International Association for Jazz Education\n\nInternational Association for Jazz Education (IAJE), formerly a not-for-profit corporation based in Manhattan, Kansas, was a volunteer-run organization that, among other things, allocated student scholarships through its approved festivals program. Its annual conference was a gathering point for professional artists as well as jazz enthusiasts. Many considered IAJE to be a foundation of the jazz community, and its many programs to be a cornerstone of jazz education.\n\nIAJE was first incorporated as a non-profit on August 18, 1989, having developed from the International Association of Jazz Educators (since 1971) and the U.S. National Association of Jazz Education (since 1968). The association organized more than 7,000 teachers, musicians, producers, and others interested in jazz, from more than thirty countries. They organized a yearly conference, which included numerous musical presentations.\n\nIAJE filed for bankruptcy April 2008, and ceased as a corporation March 15, 2009. The bankruptcy filing was necessitated, in part, because of financial problems stemming from a lack of donations, and losses – notably from the small turnout at the Toronto conference of 2008.\n\nEach year the IAJE leadership selected recipients for the Jazz Education Hall of Fame from nominations received from the IAJE membership. The purpose of the Hall of Fame was to honor those individuals whose musical contributions and dedication to jazz education created new directions and curricular innovations for jazz education worldwide.\nCelebrated Humanitarian Award recipients included drummer Ed Thigpen 2007 and producer George Avakian 2008.\n\nThe final Jazz Ambassador Award was given to Tom Smith in 2008.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48161618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48161618", "title": "Karen Burns (academic)", "text": "Karen Burns (academic)\n\nKaren Burns (born 1962) is an architectural historian and theorist based in Melbourne, Australia. She is currently a senior lecturer in architecture at the Melbourne School of Design, University of Melbourne.\n\nBorn in January 1962, Burns grew up in the Melbourne suburb of Beaumaris. Her feminist activism first found expression in 1978 when she worked as a volunteer at a newly established refuge for women and children escaping family violence.\n\nBurns studied English literature and art history at Monash University, the latter with Patrick McCaughey and Conrad Hamann. She was Hamann’s first honours student. Burns graduated with a Bachelor of Arts (hons) in 1984 and a Master of Arts in 1987. She began studying architecture at RMIT University in 1986, and began editing the magazine \"Transition\" the same year. Her PhD, \"Urban Tourism, 1851-53: sightseeing, representation and \"The Stones of Venice\"\" was completed in 1999 at the School of Fine Arts, Classical Studies and Archaeology, University of Melbourne.\n\nBurns has held academic positions at a number of universities in Melbourne. She began her academic career at RMIT University (1986–1995) and then joined the Department of English and Cultural Studies and Department of Fine Arts, Classics and Archaeology, University of Melbourne (1997–1999, 2001). She spent three years at the Centre for Ideas, Victorian College of the Arts (2002–2004), of which she was Acting Director in 2002–2003. She joined the new Department of Architecture at Monash University in 2008 and was later appointed as a Senior Lecturer in Architecture at the Melbourne School of Design, University of Melbourne, a position she still holds.\n\nHer academic research focuses on three principal areas: Australian frontier housing and problems of interpretation, late-twentieth-century feminist architectural history and theory, and alliances between architects, aesthetics and manufacturers in mid-nineteenth-century Britain. In relation to the last topic she is working on a book titled \"Object Lessons: Demonstrating Victorian Design Reform, 1835–1870.\"\n\nBurns was an active researcher on the Australian Research Council funded project Equity and Diversity in the Australian Architectural Profession: women, work and leadership (2011-2014), which was led by Naomi Stead of the University of Queensland. One of its key outcomes was . Burns was instrumental in establishing this organisation with colleagues from the research project, and was responsible for coining the name Parlour. This can be understood in the context of her long engagement in feminist and social activism in architecture.\n\nBurns' has given invited keynote presentations at three conferences: \"Fabulations,\" the Annual Conference of SAHANZ, University of Tasmania, July 2012; \"Interstices\", University of Tasmania, November 2011; Whirlwinds Symposium, \"Sexuate Subjects: Politics, Poetics and Ethics\", Bartlett School of Architecture, University College London, December 2010. She has presented her research work at many more conferences and symposia and is an active member of the academic community.\n\nBurns has played important roles in a range of publications, both scholarly and professional, as editor, contributor and advisor.\n\nShe was editor of \"\", an influential quarterly journal published by RMIT University, from July 1986 – December 1991. This saw her edit 17 issues of the publication. From 1987, this was an editorial partnership with Harriet Edquist. Highlights of the journal over this period include:\nTransition was also a vehicle for exhibitions and competitions, including:\n\nBurns edited four issues of this publication, which is the journal of the Art Association of Australia & New Zealand between 2004 and 2006.\n\nBurns also sits on the editorial boards of a number of academic journals: \"Fabrications\" (journal of SAHANZ), \"Interstices\", \"Ultima Thule\" and \"Architectural Theory Review.\". She has been a contributing editor to \"Architecture Australia\".\n\nArchitectural criticism by Burns has been published in a range of professional journals including Architecture Australia, Architectural Review Australia, Monument and Landscape Architecture Australia.\n\nBurns has a long history of involvement with feminist activism and social justice issues in architecture. She is a founding member of the Melbourne-based organisation E1027: Women in Architecture (1990) – established with Harriet Edquist and others. In 1991 the organisation had 80 members, including architects Maggie Edmond, Anne Cunningham, Ann Keddie, Mary Ruth Sindrey, Val Austin, Suzanne Dance, Eli Giannini, Mardi Butcher, Jill Garner and Anna Ely. Members also included women artists such as Kathy Temin, Sarah Curtis, Lauren Berkowitz and Jan Nelson.\n\nIn 1991 Burns curated the exhibition \"Insight Out\" with Anna Horne. This took the form of architectural installations at 200 Gertrude Street and five other outdoor sites in Fitzroy, Melbourne. The exhibition examined urban change, gentrification, housing stress and historical memory.\n\nIn 2013 Burns played a key role in establishing Parlour: women, equity, architecture, with Justine Clark, Naomi Stead and others. Developed as a \"space to speak\" for women in architecture, this provides research, resources and informed opinion about gender equity and architecture. Writing by Burns on Parlour includes:\n\nParlour also ran the 2012 symposium, Transform: Altering the Future of Architecture, which was co-convened by Burns with colleagues Justine Clark and Naomi Stead and hosted by the University of Melbourne.\n\n\nBurns has curated a number of exhibitions. These include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30328215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30328215", "title": "Kate Loder", "text": "Kate Loder\n\nKate Fanny Loder, later Lady Thompson, (21 August 1825 – 30 August 1904) was an English composer and pianist.\n\nKate Loder was born on 21 August 1825, on Bathwick Street, Bathwick, within Bath, Somerset where the Loder family were prominent musicians. Her father was the flautist George Loder. According to \"Grove\", her mother was a piano teacher born Fanny Philpot, who was the sister of the pianist Lucy Anderson. Kate was also the sister of conductor and composer George Loder, and the cousin of composer Edward Loder.\n\nHowever, genealogical research suggests Kate's mother was Frances Elizabeth Mary Kirkham (1802–50), daughter of Thomas Bulman Kirkham (1778–1845) and Marianne Beville Moore (c.1781 – 1810). Frances Kirkham's step-mother was Jane Harriett Philpot (1802–63), second wife to Thomas Bulman Kirkham and sister of the Lucy Philpot who married the violinist George Frederick Anderson, becoming Lucy Anderson.\nKater Loder studied at the Royal Academy of Music in London. Her performance of Mendelssohn's G minor piano concerto at the Hanover-square Rooms on 27 May 1843, when she was aged 17, may have been her public debut. The following year, in 1844, aged just 18, she became the first female professor of harmony at the Royal Academy. On 16 December 1851 at St Marylebone Church, Westminster, she married Sir Henry Thompson and soon afterwards, at her husband's insistence, gave up her public performing career. She remained active in music, continuing to compose, and taught pupils including Sarah Louisa Kilpack who nowadays is better known as an artist.\n\nOn 10 July 1871, the first British performance of the \"German Requiem\" of Johannes Brahms took place privately at Loder's home in Wimpole Street, London. It was performed using a version for piano duet accompaniment which became known as the \"London Version\" () of the Requiem. Brahms based it on an 1866 arrangement for piano of his first, six-movement version of the Requiem. The pianists were Kate Loder and Cipriani Potter (who was then 79 years old; he died that September).\n\nShe died on 30 August 1904 at Headley Rectory, Headley, Surrey.\n\nSelected works include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2458216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2458216", "title": "Low-residency program", "text": "Low-residency program\n\nA low-residency program (or limited residency program) is a form of education, normally at the university level, which involves some amount of distance education and brief on-campus or specific-site residencies—residencies may be one weekend or several weeks. These programs are most frequently offered by colleges and universities that also teach standard full-time courses on campus. There are numerous Master's degree programs in a wide range of content areas; one of the most popular limited residency degree programs is the Master of Fine Arts in creative writing. The first such program was developed by Evalyn Bates and launched in 1963 at Goddard College in Plainfield, Vermont.\n\nThere are low-residency MFA programs in creative writing, visual arts, photography, and painting. Other graduate programs that can earn a student a degree include Master of Arts, Master of Science, Master of Business Administration, and Master of Accounting. A few schools offer limited residency undergraduate options: Goddard College, Prescott College, Lesley University, New Hampshire Institute of Art, and Union Institute & University. \n\nPrograms vary, but an intensive, low-residency model requires students to come to campus every six months for 1-2 weeks, during which time students engage in a variety of activities and lectures during the day, and create detailed study plans. During the non-residency semester periods, students study independently, sending in \"packets\" to their faculty mentors every month or so. The content of the packets varies with each individual, but focuses on research, writing, and reflection related to each student's individualized study plan. A few schools, such as Western State Colorado University, actually conduct live online classes via Skype each week during the non-residency periods as well as having instructors reading students' work and provide written feedback weekly.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18004084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18004084", "title": "Luigi Sturzo Institute", "text": "Luigi Sturzo Institute\n\nLuigi Sturzo Institute was founded in 1951 by Luigi Sturzo\n\nof the Partito Popolare (Italian Popular Party). The mission of The Luigi Sturzo Institute is to endorse research in the historical sciences, sociology, political and economical fields by providing vast documentation in the archive library, facilitate canvassers, issue publications and maintain various alliances with other national and international institutes. \nLocated in Palazzo Baldassini, the institute’s remarkable building was constructed by architect Antonio da Sangallo il Giovane in 1515. The interior walls are decorated with frescos from various artists including several who attended La Scuola di Raffaelo. \nWithin the edifice, the institute organizes and preserves archives containing documentation specified around the validation of the Roman Catholic Movement. In the library, other documentation is assembled, more specifically around the social sciences as well as modern and contemporary history. \nOngoing research in the institute extends to the fields of psychology, politics, history, jurisprudence and economics. The conducted research is integrated with seminars organized by the institute to share the new information and provide information in areas of interest. \n\nThe formation sector provides courses for graduates that teach the work specifics of several jobs in the cultural organization career based on the common European model.\n\nThe diffusion and verifications of scientific results are dispersed predominantly by our publications, one of which is our journal, \"Sociologia\", published every four months, which discusses historical and social sciences. \n\nThe institute develops numerous of its activities in collaboration with other national and international institutes.\n"}
{"id": "43364227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43364227", "title": "Mahinder Watsa", "text": "Mahinder Watsa\n\nMahinder Watsa is an Indian sexologist who is well known for his sex columns in newspapers and magazines and his contributions to promote sex education in India.\n\nMahinder Watsa's father was a military physician. Watsa is Punjabi. When he was around 7 years old, his family spent some time in Rangoon.\n\nDuring his time at a medical college in Mumbai, Watsa stayed with friends of his family. Through them, he met his future wife, Promila. Despite coming from different backgrounds and castes (he is Punjabi, she was originally from Sindh), and going against a tradition of arranged marriages, the two wed after being friends for a number of years. The couple had a son and lived for a while in the 1950s in the United Kingdom, during which time Watsa worked as a hospital houseman and registrar. The family returned to India after his father fell ill and Watsa found work in for Glaxo as a medical officer, while simultaneously running a private practice as a gynecologist and obstetrician.\n\nWatsa began a career as a columnist in the 1960s when, in his late 30s, he was asked to start writing a medical advice column for a women's magazine. He continued authoring health columns for several women's magazines, such as Femina, Flair, and Trend, into the 1970s until he encountered resistance from an editor who insisted upon censoring queries about sexual health. Watsa however maintained his writing through numerous alternative outlets including men's magazines (such as 'Fantasy') and, later, websites.\n\nOne of the readers of the Femina column had filed an obscenity lawsuit claiming that the publishers were fabricating the letters to increase readership. The editor, Sathya Saran, managed to convince the judge to drop the case by delivering a sack of unopened letters to him.\n\nThrough his work as a columnist he became aware of the lack of sex education in India. In 1974, while working as a consultant for the Family Planning Association of India (FPAI), Watsa proposed that a sexual counselling and education program should be introduced. Despite oppositions, FPAI accepted his advice and started India's first sex education, counselling and therapy centre. In 1976, he organised India's first workshop on human sexuality and family life. The workshop was also addressed by Ashok Row Kavi, a notable LGBT rights activist in India. In the early 1980s, Watsa left his practice to work full-time in counselling and education.\n\nIn 2005, aged 80, Watsa began writing a column called \"Ask the Sexpert\" for the newspaper Mumbai Mirror, which is noted for its witty replies to queries. The newspaper has subsequently been threatened with lawsuits and accusations of obscenity. Suchitra Dalvie, a gynaecologist, conducted a study by analysing more than 500 letters sent to the column. According to her, the study revealed a lack of sex education even among urban and relatively well-educated Indians. In August 2014, his editor estimated that he has received more 40,000 queries for the column.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3359558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3359558", "title": "Markos Mamalakis", "text": "Markos Mamalakis\n\nMarkos Mamalakis (Greek: Μάρκος Μαμαλάκης; born October 30, 1932) is a Greek economist specialising in development economics, particularly in Latin America.\n\nBorn in Salonika, he graduated from the Experimental High School of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki in 1950, then attended the Law School of the University and received a B.A. in Law, with the distinction \"summa cum laude\" in 1955. He did graduate work at Ludwig Maximilians University of Munich from 1955 to 1957, and University of California, Berkeley from 1957 to 1962, where he received his M.A. (1959), and Ph.D. (1962) with a dissertation entitled \"Inflation and Growth: An Asset Preference Analysis. With a Case Study of the Chilean Inflation\". He has taught or been a visiting scholar at the University of California, Berkeley; University of Western Ontario; Universidad de Chile; Yale; University of Göttingen; Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars; Inter-American Development Bank; and the University of Giessen.\n\nHe is a professor of economics at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee.\n\nHe was one of the first to argue that there is no \"magic bullet\" to development, but that development solutions must take into account the effects and circumstances of the location. He has published widely on macroeconomics in developing economies and welfare and sector effects. He argued for the fruitfulness of a mesoeconomic analysis of social interactions, rather than a strictly microeconomic or macroecomic approach.\n\nMarkos is a father of twelve and grandfather of thirty-seven. He and his wife celebrated their 50th wedding anniversary on January 31, 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "3406801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3406801", "title": "Mermaid Theatre", "text": "Mermaid Theatre\n\nThe Mermaid Theatre was a theatre encompassing the site of Puddle Dock and Curriers' Alley at Blackfriars in the City of London, and the first built in the City since the time of Shakespeare. It was, importantly, also one of the first new theatres to abandon the traditional stage layout; instead a single tier of seats surrounded the stage on three sides.\n\nThe 20th-century theatre was the life's work of actor Bernard Miles with his wife, Josephine Wilson. His original Mermaid Theatre was a large barn at his house in the St. John's Wood area of London. This seated 200 people, and during 1951 and 1952 was used for concerts, plays and a celebrated opera production of \"Dido and Aeneas\" with Kirsten Flagstad, Maggie Teyte and Thomas Hemsley, conducted by Geraint Jones, which was recorded by HMV. For the third season in 1953 the Mermaid Theatre was moved to the Royal Exchange.\n\nMiles was encouraged to build a permanent theatre and, raising money from public subscriptions, and his revenues from publicity spots for the Egg Marketing Board; he oversaw the creation of the new building on land formerly occupied by a warehouse. This site was close to the location of an abortive attempt, in the Jacobean era, to build a theatre (named Porter's Hall) for the amalgamation of the Children of the Queen's Revels and Lady Elizabeth's Men. This project, undertaken by Philip Rosseter with distant backing from Henslowe and Alleyn, was ended because of complaints from the neighbourhood's residents.\n\nThe new Mermaid Theatre opened in 1959 with a successful production of \"Lock Up Your Daughters\" and it was the venue for many other very successful productions, such as \"Cowardy Custard\" (often cited as responsible for the revival of interest in Noël Coward's works) and including an annual staging of \"Treasure Island\", with Miles reprising his role of Long John Silver, which he also played in a television version. The Mermaid Theatre also ran the Molecule Club, educating children about science.\n\nIn July 1961 the poet and author Sylvia Plath read her poem \"Tulips\" at the Poetry at the Mermaid Festival, sponsored by the Arts Council of Great Britain. The programme notes that there were twelve commissioned poets at the festival, one of whom was Plath's husband, Ted Hughes.\n\nOther notable productions include the 1978 première of \"Whose Life Is It Anyway?\", with Tom Conti and Rona Anderson.. The Royal Shakespeare Company sometimes transferred Stratford productions to the Mermaid, including a residency during 1987 which saw the staging of seven plays.\n\nGomba Holdings, a property company owned by Ugandan Asian businessman Abdul Shamji and his family, which claimed to have interests in the Garrick and Duchess theatres as well as Wembley Stadium, bought the theatre in the mid-1980s in the hope of redeveloping the Puddle Dock site. Bernard Miles' tenure as honorary artistic advisor was abruptly terminated and the theatre's importance declined. In 1989 Abdul Shamji was sentenced to 15-months in prison over his involvement in the Johnson Matthey bank collapse. Josephine Wilson died in 1990 and Bernard (by then Lord) Miles died in 1991, financially destitute.\n\nMarc Sinden was appointed artistic director in 1993, opening the Bernard Miles Studio as a second performance area, but left the next year. Actor Roy Marsden and Vanessa Ford took over the running of the theatre for a few months prior to its eventual closure and the termination of the Shamji family's ownership.\n\nAfter a further change of ownership the theatre was slated for demolition in 2002 as part of redevelopment plans. Already it had fallen into disuse, the buildings being used more often as a conference centre than a theatre. A preservation campaign by actors and other supporters attempted to reverse the decision. In April 2003 Ken Livingstone, the Mayor of London, ordered the council to block the demolition. As of March 2005 new plans had been submitted for the redevelopment of the site. Nothing materialised and the building continued to operate primarily as a conference centre. The BBC Concert Orchestra used it for occasional concerts, and the BBC recorded a popular weekly radio show, \"Friday Night is Music Night\" that showcased musicians such as the violinist Nigel Kennedy and singer Josh Groban. In 2006, music duo Pet Shop Boys played a mid-length set accompanied by the BBC Concert Orchestra and special guests including Robbie Williams, Francis Barber and Rufus Wainwright which was musically directed by Trevor Horn. The show was documented on the audio release entitled Concrete.\n\nIn September 2008 the Corporation of London City Planning Committee, against the advice of the Theatres Trust and noted actors, producers and artistic directors, granted a certificate that stripped the former playhouse of its theatre status. The move may save the developer £6 million worth of Section 106 funding which it had previously agreed to pay in lieu if it closed the 600-seat Mermaid; the company could be released from the obligation because no theatrical productions have taken place for more than ten years. The existing plans would see the Puddle Dock building converted into a conference centre and fitness suite, plus offices, a nightclub and retail and restaurant space. Campaigners were concerned that the entire building might be demolished. The former chairman of the Save London's Theatres Campaign, John Levitt, called the decision “a tragedy” and “sheer meanness”.\n\nIn 2018 the Mermaid Theatre still exists as a conference centre called The Mermaid London.\n\n"}
{"id": "42247480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42247480", "title": "Mini World (Japanese magazine)", "text": "Mini World (Japanese magazine)\n\nMini World was an English-language Japanese magazine which ran from 1988 to 2001. The magazine had a vocabulary level of 2,000 words, equivalent to English standards of the third year of Middle School in Japan.\n"}
{"id": "15920762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15920762", "title": "Mnemosyne (software)", "text": "Mnemosyne (software)\n\nMnemosyne (named for the Greek goddess of memory, Mnemosyne) is a line of spaced repetition software developed from 2003 until the present.\n\n\nEach day, the software displays each card that is scheduled for repetition. The user then grades their recollection of the card's answer on a scale of 0-5. The software then schedules the next repetition of the card in accordance with the user's rating of that particular card and the database of cards as a whole. This produces an active, rather than passive, review process.\n\nMnemosyne is written in Python, which allows for its use on Microsoft Windows, Linux, and . A client program for review on Android devices is also available but needs to be synchronized by the desktop program. Users of the software usually make their own database of cards, although pre-made Mnemosyne databases are available, and it is possible to import SuperMemo collections and text files. SQLite is used by the program to store files.\n\nMnemosyne collects data from volunteering users, and is a research project on long-term memory.\n\nAn August 2009 version of the dataset was made available via BitTorrent; a January 2014 version is available for download. Otherwise, the latest version is available from the author, Peter Bienstman, upon request.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30663747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30663747", "title": "Nicasio Jiménez", "text": "Nicasio Jiménez\n\nNicasio Jiménez (born 12 March 1849, d. 1891) was a Cuban violin-cellist. He was the son of violinist Jose Julian Jiménez and brother of pianist and composer Lico Jiménez. His sisters Inés and Arcadia Jiménez were singers. His grandfather Francisco Nicasio Jiménez was an orchestra and band leader.\n\nNicasio Gregorio Jiménez was born in Trinidad, Cuba, Las Villas province. Jiménez studied music as a child with his father and traveled to Germany with his father and brother in 1867 to study music at the Leipzig Conservatory. He became noted as a cellist and took a position as Professor of Violincello at the Conservatory of Tours.\n\nWith his father and brother, Nicasio formed one of the first all black ensembles, billed as \"Das Negertrio\", and successfully toured in Europe, the Americas and in Cuba as a soloist and with the ensemble, playing mostly 19th-century Romantic compositions.\n"}
{"id": "30262369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30262369", "title": "Philippine Registry of Cultural Property", "text": "Philippine Registry of Cultural Property\n\nThe Philippine Registry of Cultural Property, abbreviated as PRECUP is a national registry of the Philippine Government used to consolidate in one record all cultural property that are deemed important to the cultural heritage, tangible and intangible, of the Philippines. In June 11, 2018, the entries in the newly-updated PRECUP was at 3,921. Additionally, 1,259 out of 1,715 LGUs (provincial, municipal/city-levels), or 73 percent of LGUs have established local cultural inventories (LCI).\n\nThis registry was established by the National Cultural Heritage Act of 2009 (Republic Act No. 10066) Section 14 which says \"All cultural property of the country deemed important to cultural heritage shall be registered in the Philippine Registry of Cultural Property.\"\n\nThe National Commission for Culture and the Arts is mandated to establish and maintain the registry, through the appropriate cultural agencies and local government units, within three years from the effectivity of the act. As stated in Section 14 of said legislation, the guidelines in the registration of cultural property are as follows:\n\nIt was clarified that by its enactment, Republic Act No. 10066 does not transfer ownership of the properties, identified as part of the Philippines' cultural heritage, to the state.\n\nThe highest cultural properties under the PRECUP are \"UNESCO inscriptions\", followed by \"National Cultural Treasures\" and \"Important Cultural Properties\". In resolution 2017-330 released in December 19, 2017 entitled \"Guidelines governing PRECUP\", the properties that can be included in the PRECUP are as follow:\n\n\nCultural properties are registered through the combined effort of Cultural Agencies including the National Museum, the National Historical Commission of the Philippines, the National Archives, and the National Library of the Philippines as well as of Local Government Units (LGUs). They shall work together in updating the PRECUP.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9167791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9167791", "title": "Pre-university course", "text": "Pre-university course\n\nThe pre-university course or pre-degree course, popularly abbreviated to PUC or PDC, is an intermediate course (which is known as 10+2) of two years' duration, conducted by state education institutions or boards in India. This pre-university course is also known as the Plus-two or Intermediate course. A person desiring admission to an Indian university must pass this course, which can be considered as a degree bridge course to prepare students for university education.\n\nAdmission to this course is based on marks obtained for the Secondary School Leaving Certificate, awarded after successful completion of five years of primary school, followed by five years of secondary school. The Indian education system follows a 10+2+3 (4 or 5) pattern, so that a bachelor's degree requires a minimum of 10 years of school, plus two years of PUC, plus either three, four or five years at university. Colleges offering a pre-university course are known as PU Colleges or Junior colleges in India.\n\nFor example, the state of Karnataka conducts examinations at the end of the second year of the PUC for university admissions. This has three program streams with options focusing on science, commerce and arts, respectively. Students desiring to study professional programs in Karnataka must pass the science stream of this exam and qualify through the Common Entrance Test of the state. Recently, the Karnataka PUC Board made the first-year PUC exams public, to filter out low-scoring students and improve overall average scores. Only about 40% of students usually pass the exam, and only about 1.5% score above 85% overall.\n\nStudents who have completed the PUC in the science stream can enroll in specialist degree courses in nursing, pharmacy, agriculture, engineering or medicine. They can also enroll for a pure-sciences B.Sc.. Admission to these courses depends upon marks scored in PUC exams conducted by the institutes or by the state board.\n\nStudents who succeed in the commerce stream may enroll in a graduate Bachelor of Commerce or Bachelor of Business Management degree program at an Indian university.\n\nThose who have passed the arts-stream PUC can opt to study for a Bachelor of Arts (B.A) or Diploma in Education (DEd), Bachelor of Social Work (BSW), or may be admitted to vocational programs in fashion design — offered by the National Institute of Fashion Design (NIFT) — or apparel and knitwear manufacturing.\n\n"}
{"id": "15677992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15677992", "title": "Project Euler", "text": "Project Euler\n\nProject Euler (named after Leonhard Euler) is a website dedicated to a series of computational problems intended to be solved with computer programs. The project attracts adults and students interested in mathematics and computer programming. Since its creation in 2001 by Colin Hughes, Project Euler has gained notability and popularity worldwide. It includes over 600 problems, with a new one added once every two weeks. Problems are of varying difficulty but each is solvable in less than a minute of CPU time using an efficient algorithm on a modestly powered computer. Project Euler has about 800,000 users, from all over the world, who have solved at least one problem.\n\nA forum specific to each question may be viewed after the user has correctly answered the given question. Problems can be sorted on ID, number solved and difficulty. Participants can track their progress through achievement levels based on the number of problems solved. A new level is reached for every 25 problems solved. Special awards exist for solving special combinations of problems, for instance there is an award for solving fifty prime numbered problems. A special \"Eulerians\" level exists to track achievement based on the fastest fifty solvers of recent problems so that newer members can compete without solving older problems.\n\nThe first Project Euler problem is\nIf we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of these multiples is 23.\n\nFind the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below 1000.\nThough this problem is much simpler than the typical problem, it serves to illustrate the potential difference that an efficient algorithm makes. The brute-force algorithm examines every natural number less than 1000 and keeps a running sum of those meeting the criteria. This method is simple to implement, as shown by the following pseudocode:\n\nFor harder problems, it becomes increasingly important to find an efficient algorithm. For this problem, we can reduce 1000 operations to a few by using the inclusion–exclusion principle and a closed-form summation formula.\n\nHere, formula_2 denotes the sum of multiples of formula_3 below formula_4.\nIn big O notation, the brute-force algorithm is O(\"n\") and the efficient algorithm is O(1) (assuming constant time arithmetic operations).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3311255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3311255", "title": "Reading Is Fundamental", "text": "Reading Is Fundamental\n\nReading Is Fundamental, Inc. (RIF) is the largest non-profit children's literacy organization in the United States. RIF is committed to a literate America by inspiring a passion for reading among all children, providing quality content and resources to make an impact, and engaging communities in the solution to give every child the fundamentals for success. RIF is the leading champion for children’s literacy, empowering millions of children to read, learn, and grow.\n\nWhile reading to children at a school in Washington, D.C. Margaret McNamara, wife of the United States Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara, was surprised to learn that many of the students did not have any books of their own. That experience in 1966 led to the formation of Reading Is Fundamental (RIF), a nonprofit children's literacy organization dedicated to making reading a fun and beneficial part of everyday life. In the first year, 41,000 D.C. school children received 200,000 books. With the help of a grant from the Ford Foundation in 1967, the RIF bookmobile was launched, expanding reach and impact outside of the classroom. Following the success RIF had in Washington, the Ford Foundation increased RIF's grant to $285,000 in August 1968, enabling RIF to launch ten model programs across the country. From these early beginnings, RIF evolved into a national motivating force for literacy.\n\nIn 2001, Carol Rasco, the former senior adviser to United States Secretary of Education Richard Riley, became the president and CEO of RIF. The communications department encouraged her to start blogging to help the organization attain its goals of improving its reach. In 2011, Congress approved and President Barack Obama signed a bill that cut all federal funding for RIF. During the budget cuts, several newspapers across the United States published Rasco's commentary on the situation.\n\nIn 2015, RIF celebrated its 50th anniversary and released the results of Read for Success, a two-year research study funded by a grant from the Department of Education. Read for Success is centered around motivating children to read by providing access to high-quality classroom book collections, summer books for students to choose and own, enriching STEAM-themed classroom activities, professional development for teachers and parent engagement.\n\nRasco left in 2016, succeeded by Alicia Levi.\n\nTo date, RIF has given 412 million books to more than 40 million children.\n\nRIF has 400,000 volunteers across all U.S. states and territories provide 4.5 million children with 15 million books and a growing number of literacy resources each year. RIF's largest priority is providing books and companion literacy resources for underprivileged children from birth to age 10.\n\nRIF's flagship program is Books for Ownership (formerly known as the National Book Program), which also supplies children with free paperback books. By 1989 the RIF had distributed 100 million books.\n\n"}
{"id": "646512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=646512", "title": "Royal Irish Academy", "text": "Royal Irish Academy\n\nThe Royal Irish Academy (RIA; ), based in Dublin, is an all-Ireland, independent academic body that promotes study and excellence in the sciences, humanities and social sciences. It is one of Ireland's premier learned societies and cultural institutions, and currently has around 501 members including Honorary Members, elected in recognition of their academic achievements. The Academy was established in 1785 and granted a royal charter in 1786.\n\nUntil the late 19th century the Royal Irish Academy was also the owner of the main national collection of Irish antiquities. It presented its collection of archaeological artefacts and similar items, which included such famous pieces as the Tara Brooch, the Cross of Cong and the Ardagh Chalice to what is now the National Museum of Ireland, but retains its very significant collection of manuscripts including the famous Cathach of Colmcille, the Book of the Dun Cow (c. 1100), the later medieval Leabhar Breac, the Book of Ballymote, and the Annals of the Four Masters.\n\nThe Academy has issued the following mission statement:\nThe Royal Irish Academy, the academy for the sciences and humanities for the whole of Ireland, will vigorously promote excellence in scholarship, recognise achievements in learning, direct research programmes and undertake its own research projects, particularly in areas relating to Ireland and its heritage.\n\nIt will reflect upon, advise on and contribute to, public debate and public policy formation on issues of major interest in science, technology and culture.\n\nIt will continue to offer an independent forum to Irish scholars, it will provide a network of support for scholarly disciplines through its network of academy committees, it will maintain and enhance its unique library, it will publish scholarly papers and it will represent the world of Irish learning internationally.\n\nElection to Membership of the Royal Irish Academy is a public recognition of academic excellence and is sometimes held to be the highest academic honour in Ireland. Those elected are entitled to use the designation \"MRIA\" after their name. The criterion for election to Membership is a significant contribution to scholarly research as shown in the candidate's published academic work. However some of those elected to membership are not academics at all but receive the accolade in recognition of other contributions to society - these include former public servants, philanthropists, leaders in political and business life, and others (see Notable Members below). \n\nTo be elected, a candidate has to be proposed and recommended by five Members, and selection is made by a rotating committee of existing Members, their names not made known outside the Academy. Presently, twenty Members are elected each year, equally divided between the sciences and humanities. Membership is open only to those resident in Ireland. \n\nHonorary Membership can be awarded to persons who have made outstanding contribution to their academic discipline, but who are normally resident outside the island of Ireland. At least two existing Members must propose and recommend a candidate for Honorary Membership. Honorary members are entitled to use the designation \"Hon. MRIA\" after their name.\n\nThe Academy is one of the longest-established publishers in Ireland, beginning in 1787. The Academy currently publishes six journals: \"Ériu\", \"Irish Studies in International Affairs\", \"Mathematical Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy\", \"Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy Section C\", \"Irish Journal of Earth Sciences\" and \"Biology and Environment\" . The Academy's research projects also regularly publish the \"Irish Historic Towns Atlas\" series, the \"Documents on Irish Foreign Policy\", \"Foclóir na nua-Ghaeilge\", the \"Dictionary of Medieval Latin from Celtic Sources\", and the \"New Survey of Clare Island\". In 2014 the Academy published (in association with Yale University Press) the five-volume \"Art and Architecture of Ireland\".\n\nThe Academy is committed to publishing work which not only influences scholarship, but also the wider community, for example \"Flashes of Brilliance\" by Dick Ahlstrom, and \"Judging Dev\" by Diarmaid Ferriter. Both of these publications have been accompanied by either a television or a radio series.\n\nDuring the 1950s the Academy began forming national committees, each relating to a specific discipline. Today the main focus of the Academy committees is to serve as a strategic vehicle for the disciplines they represent, and to act as a national forum, providing input into policy, research priorities and issues of public concern, such as climate change. They also organise public outreach activities, such as lectures and public interviews, and award grants for research and travel. The Academy committees are made up of both Members and non-Members, including representatives from universities, research institutions, government agencies and, where appropriate, industry.\n\nScience Committees: Climate Change and Environmental Sciences; Engineering and Computer Sciences; Geosciences and Geographical Sciences; Life and Medical Sciences; Physical, Chemical and Mathematical Sciences\n\nHumanities and Social Sciences Committees: Ethical, Political, Legal and Philosophical Studies; Historical Studies; Social Sciences; Study of Languages, Literature, Culture and Communication; Coiste Léann na Gaeilge, Litríocht na Gaeilge agus na gCultúr Ceilteach\n\nIn 1852 the Royal Irish Academy moved from 114 Grafton Street to its current premises at 19 Dawson Street, Dublin 2, known as \"Academy House\". Built in c.1750, the building has some fine decorative plasterwork and a handsome meeting room designed in 1854 by Frederick Clarendon and now used for conferences, exhibitions and public talks. Academy House was home to many of Ireland's finest national treasures, including the Ardagh Chalice and the Tara Brooch, until 1890 when the Academy transferred its collections to the newly established National Museum of Ireland.\n\nThe Academy Library holds the largest collection of Old Irish manuscripts in the world. It is an important research centre for studies covering Irish history, language, archaeology and the history of Irish science. The Library is home to the sixth-century Latin psalter, the \"Cathach\", reputedly copied by St Columcille. The Library also holds the personal library of Thomas Moore and the philological collection of Osborn J. Bergin.\n\n\"See also \"\n\nThe Academy manages a number of high-profile research projects in the sciences and humanities. Past projects have included The Digital Humanities Observatory (DHO), New Survey of Clare Island(NSCI) and The Origins of the Irish Constitution (OIC).\n\nCurrent projects\n\n\nThe President and Council are responsible for the Academy's general government and regulation. They are elected annually at the Stated Meeting on 16 March. The President normally serves a three-year term of office. The membership of Council is drawn from the Sciences and Humanities sections. Council formulates policies, and recommends candidates for membership.\n\nThe Executive Committee supports the Council in supervising the day-to-day business of the Academy. The members of the Executive Committee are the President, Senior Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer, Secretaries of Science and PL&A (Polite Literature & Antiquities, i.e. Humanities), Executive Secretary, Secretary for International Relations, and a staff representative.\n\nThe Royal Irish Academy became a prescribed body under the terms of the Freedom of Information Act 1997 and the Freedom of Information Act (Amendment) 2003, on 31 May 2006.\n\nThe Academy’s premier award is its Cunningham Medal, which was established in 1796 at the bequest of barrister Timothy Cunningham of Gray's Inn.\n\nAfter a period of uncertainty and experimentation regarding the terms and conditions of the award, it was agreed in 1848 that the medals would be open to the authors of works or essays in the areas of Science, Polite Literature and Antiquities, published in Ireland or about Irish subjects.\n\nThe Medal is awarded every three years to Members of the Academy in recognition of \"outstanding contributions to scholarship and the objectives of the Academy\" \n\nSee also \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52929155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52929155", "title": "Sabina Escola Parque do Conhecimento", "text": "Sabina Escola Parque do Conhecimento\n\nThe Sabina School Park of Knowledge () is a science museum in Santo André, São Paulo, Brazil. Other planetaria in Greater São Paulo include Professor Aristóteles Orsini Planetarium and Carmo Planetarium.\n\nThe school was created by the Municipal Government of Santo André to provide scientific support to the municipal school network. Originally conceived in 2001, the construction of the building and the initial acquisition of the contents was completed in mid-2006. It was inaugurated on 11 February 2007. The building was designed by Paulo Mendes da Rocha. It is in an area of , with the building covering .\n\nThe main pavilion covers .\n\nThe planetarium, named after Johannes Kepler, is a -diameter dome containing 247 seats and 13 wheelchair spaces. It uses a Carl Zeiss AG Starmaster SB to project over 6,000 stars, along with two digital projectors covering the entire dome. The planetarium and digital theatre covers . Shows last around 30 minutes. It is open to the public on weekends and holidays.\n"}
{"id": "19230778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19230778", "title": "Savivo", "text": "Savivo\n\nSavivo is a Danish e-learning company based in Copenhagen. The company was founded in 2006, and is known for their educational games, which has millions of users around the world.\n\nSavivo started out developing content for web browsers, and has since embraced smartphones and tablets running on Android and iOS.\n\nSavivo was founded in 2006 by company CEO Stephan Stephensen. The name itself reflects the philosophy of the company. Savivo is a portmanteau of the words savvy and vivo, the Spanish word for life.\n\nThe company's first project was the first educational game, Mingoville English, which purpose is to help children learn English. Mingoville English was designed and developed as part of a project initiated by Denmark’s IT Center for Education and Research under the auspices of the Danish Ministry of Education.\n\nIn 2008 Savivo developed SkoleMat, a series of math games. SkoleMat is designed to cover the entire Danish Folkeskole from pre-school up to lower secondary education. In 2012 the first part of SkoleMat, called Mondiso which covers first to third grade, was released in English.\n\nIn 2009 the Portuguese government appointed Savivo to integrate Mingoville English on half a million of Intel’s Classmate PCs in Portugal. 1.000 Classmate PCs were also sent to Botswana.<br>\nThe same year, Savivo joined the Chilean government’s \"Chile habla Ingles\" campaign, to combat English illiteracy in Chile. Within two weeks of the campaign, more than 200,000 Chileans signed up for Mingoville English.\n\nIn 2011, Savivo approached all major telephone companies in Denmark, e.g. TDC, Telenor, 3 and Telia to enable their Math app for mobile phones to be streamed for free to all school children in Denmark.\n\nIn 2012, Savivo entered a partnership with the Danish publishing house Gyldendal, a partnership where the two companies will develop new digital learning content and gain a larger presence abroad.\n\nIn 2013, Savivo saw international success. The iPad version of Mingoville Preschool was well received in China, where it held the first place in the highly competitive Chinese app market.<br>\nIn the beginning of September, Mingoville Preschool started a similar rise to the top in Latin America. The app occupied the top 3 positions in iTunes' education category in a number of countries, e.g. Argentina, Venezuela and Colombia.\n\nWith a background in business, Stephan Stephensen's first foray into e-learning was a program designed to teach refugees Danish. He is responsible for the company's learning philosophy and proponent of e- and m-learning in all their incarnations. The potential of m-learning in various areas of the world, like Africa, is something he continues to explore.\n\nSavivo utilizes various teaching approaches in their apps. Besides using gamification elements to increase the time children play the games, Savivo is a proponent for learning through play. Savivo's approach is structured and uses both dialogue and visual elements to stimulate learning.\n\nAccording to a report created by a series of consultants and Copenhagen Municipality, students feel challenged by Mingoville English and think they learn more English from playing the game. The strong focus on dialogue between child and game are used to explain topics and subjects in a dynamic way.\n\nMingoville English is Savivo's biggest program, with over 2.000.000 users around the world. It combines a set of 10 missions, totaling hundreds of English exercises and games, with a virtual world where children can talk and play together. In the virtual world, the safety of the children is guaranteed thanks to Savivo's Safe Chat-system, which only allows pre-approved words to be used.\n\nMingoville English features voice acting with voice actors from both North America, Australia and the UK. Native voice actors ensure that the children are exposed to as authentic an English experience as possible. Mingoville English was developed with the assistance of English teachers and the program has a comprehensive system for handling lesson plans, homework and grading.\n\nWhile Mingoville English is the flagship of Savivo, the universe and activities have spun off several other games and apps. Most notably the Mingoville Preschool app, which shortly after release climbed the Chinese App Store and claimed the first place.\n\nThough Mingoville English was developed for web browsers, a new and enhanced version of Mingoville English is being developed for both web, iOS and Android.\n\nMingoville Fun Clock is an app designed to teach children how to tell time. Mingoville Fun Clock features voice actors in English, Chinese, French, Italian, Spanish, German, Dutch, Danish, Swedish and Norwegian.\n\nMingoville Preschool is designed to introduce children aged 4–8 to their first English words and phrases. The activities included in Mingoville Preschool range from variations of memory games to word puzzles.\n\nMingoville Storytelling is a storytelling app, in which children are encouraged to listen to stories set in the Mingoville universe, retell them and finally write their own stories using any of the unlocked pictures and their own voice.\n\nSkoleMat comprises three parts, \"Mondiso\", \"Hexaville\" and \"Pitropolis\". Each part has a unique theme to engage the children and which ties into the exercises.\n\nMondiso, which is for students ages 6–8 years, introduces children to basic math such as addition, subtraction and multiplication. The game is set on the island of Mondiso, which is inhabited by strange and colorful monsters.\n\nMondiso is available in both Danish and English.\n\nHexaville covers the curriculum for ages 10–13 and teach children about geometry, equations and coordinates. Hexaville takes place at a Harry Potter-inspired school with witches, ghosts and magic.\n\nHexaville is only available in Danish.\n\nPitropolis, for the 13- to 16-year-old, expands of the two previous parts and teaches about economy, Pythagoras and fractions. In Pitropolis the player follow the young people Alex and Monica, and their everyday lives.\n\nPitropolis is only available in Danish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35103783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35103783", "title": "Secondary education in Cyprus", "text": "Secondary education in Cyprus\n\nGeneral Secondary Education in Cyprus is a six-year educational program for students between the ages of 12 and 18. The Upper cycle of the Public Secondary General Education offers a three-year program for older students between the ages of 15 and 18.\n\nIt is made up of the Gymnasium (school) (Lower Secondary School), where the main concentration is a general humanistic education. Education is compulsory until the age of 15. From there students attend the Lykeio/Lyceum (Upper Secondary School), a more flexible educational system which offers various specializations depending on the inclinations, skills and interests of the students. Technical and vocational tracks are available.\n\nThe school year runs from September 10 to May 20. Students attend classes Monday through Friday, from 7:30 AM to 1:35 PM. Breaks occur at 9:00 a.m. for 15 minutes, at 10:45 a.m. for 25 minutes and at 12:40 p.m. for 10 minutes. Periods are 45 minutes in length and students have 35 periods each week.\n\nSchool Holidays are October 1, October 28, December 23 until January 6, January 30, March 25, April 1, May 1, Good Monday (the Friday after Easter Week), Holy Spirit, Green Monday and the Summer holidays from June to September.\n\n\nThe Unified Lyceum Program \"Action – Creativity – Social Contribution\" (ACS) is organized by the school and is approved by the Ministry of Education and Culture. The program is compulsory for all students and is a prerequisite to successful completion of each grade and for obtaining a school leaving certificate. The activities that have been organized by schools so far, are now regulated, enriched and upgraded through this program.\n\nUniforms are compulsory. The uniform consists of grey trousers or jeans for boys, grey skirts or jeans for girls and white, black or grey T-shirts. A special uniform is required for PE classes.\n\nSecondary education in Cyprus is free for all students.\n\nPrivate lessons in Cyprus are very common. Almost all students prepare for external exams, usually GCE A´ and O´ Levels through private tuition, to ensure access to foreign universities, especially in the UK. Many students, especially in Lyceum, take private lessons for difficult subjects.\n\nAccess to Public Tertiary Institutions in Cyprus and Greece can be achieved through the National Entrance exams, while the School Leaving Certificate can ensure access to private tertiary institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "37742485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37742485", "title": "Sigfrid Gauch", "text": "Sigfrid Gauch\n\nSigfrid Gauch (born 9 March 1945) is a German writer. He lives in Mainz.\n\nGauch is the son of Hermann Gauch, a Nazi official and member of the SS. He was born in Offenbach-Hundheim in the last few weeks of the Second World War. His parents separated when he was a young boy. He studied at the Universities of Heidelberg and Mainz.\n\nHe worked as a school teacher, teaching German, philosophy and ethics at the \"Integrierte Gesamtschule\" in Mainz. He was awarded a doctorate from the University of Mainz in 1985 for a dissertation on \"Overt and covert spellings in literary Jacobinism\". It was later published as \"Friedrich Joseph Emerich – ein deutscher Jakobiner. Studien zu Leben und Werk\".\n\nIn the 1970s Gauch published essays and poetry. He made his name with his book \"Vaterspuren\" (Traces of My Father) in 1979, an influential memoir that began what later became a genre of literature about children of Nazi parents attempting to come to terms with their family's past. He later published \"Fundsachen. Die Quellen zum Roman Vaterspuren\", a collection of primary source material related to the book. His novels \"Winterhafen\" (2010) and \"Schattenbilder\" (2012) explore the same issues through fiction.\n\nIn addition to his novels, short stories and poetry collections Gauch has co-edited numerous anthologies, especially with regard to literature from Rhineland-Palatinate, including, from 1994, the \"Rheinland-pfälzisches Jahrbuch für Literatur\" (Rhineland-Palatinate Yearbook of literature) published by Brandes & Apsel. Since 2002 this has come out under the title \"Jahrbuch für Literatur\" (Yearbook for Literature). Since 2004 he has edited the Edition Schrittmacher series of books, of which 30 volumes have been published.\n"}
{"id": "803561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=803561", "title": "SimPark", "text": "SimPark\n\nSimPark is a 1996 video game by Maxis. The object of the game is to cultivate and manage a successful park. Similar to \"SimTown\", it is targeted more towards children than the average player. \"SimPark\" attempts to show the importance of ecological balance. It could well be considered a 'lite' version of \"\".\n\nPlayers have to quickly learn how doing (or not doing) various things will affect how their park grows. For instance, if certain flower types aren't planted, the park won't attract bees. If the bees aren't flying around the park, then pollination won't occur, which is an important aspect of keeping the park growing. On top of properly managing the plant and animal population, players are also required to identify the park's plants and animals.\n\nPlayers often receive in-game email, such as their boss telling them to make the park more diverse, or their virtual mother telling about life back at home (e.g.: \"I baked you a cake...\" etc.) Occasionally, the Boss's pet frog Rizzo will make an appearance on the screen to give the player advice, or nag about the way they're handling things.\n\nThe park can experience disasters, including:\n\nThe option of using a microphone feature allows you to click on park-goers and listen to what they have to say. Some of the more memorable quotes include, \"My socks don't match,\" \"I didn't brush my teeth this morning,\" \"Eddie! Oh Eddie! Where are you?\" and \"My favourite book is \"Wind in the Willows.\"\n"}
{"id": "3088217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3088217", "title": "Song Yoo-geun", "text": "Song Yoo-geun\n\nSong Yoo-geun (born November 27, 1997) is a South Korean ex-graduate school student, who has been enrolled in the Korean University of Science and Technology (UST) from 2008 to 2017. He is broadly known as 'Genius Boy' in South Korea since 2004. \n\nIn October 2015, his first paper, written with his advisor, Dr. Park Seok-jae, entitled \"Axisymmetric, Nonstationary Black Hole Magnetospheres: Revisited\" appeared in the \"Astrophysical Journal\" (ApJ). As UST requires one published paper in a journal listed in the Science Citation Index as a graduation requirement, this article, along with his Ph.D. defense titled \"Astrophysical Applications of General Relativity\" qualified him to apply for a Ph.D. degree to be conferred in February 2016. This would have made him the youngest-ever Korean to earn a Ph.D. degree. However, the paper was soon retracted due to plagiarizing a 2002 book chapter.\n\nSong Yoo-geun left a prodigy school he attended in 2003. Six months of his independent study enabled him to solve pre-calculus problems. In August 2004, at age 6, he passed \"Craftsman Information Processing\" (정보처리기능사) certification examination. In November of the same year, his parents tried to enroll him at a local elementary school (Shim Seok Elementary School; 심석초등학교) as a sixth grader. While Song did not perform well, obtaining a score of 12% on his math exam, his parents maintained that Song was neither used to, or interested in, calculating equations that lacked meaning. Although the school allowed this at first, it later reversed its decision, citing administrative difficulties. Song's parents took the elementary school to court, where the court ruled that the school's decision was unlawful in April 2005, allowing Song to study there as a sixth grader.\n\nAs Korean students must enroll in middle school within 30 days of the beginning of the school year, Song could not enroll in middle school even after winning the lawsuit. Song's parents decided to opt for a Korean equivalent of the GED. Song passed the test, which gave him the right to enroll in high school in May 2005. He then went on to pass the test that certified him as a high school graduate in August 2005. Thus, Song finished the twelve-year curriculum spanning elementary school – middle school – high school in nine months, setting a new record.\n\nIn October 2005, he applied and was accepted to Inha University through its early decision plans, which allows exceptional students to bypass the Korean equivalent of SATs at age 7, being the youngest university student ever. During his interview with Inha University, Song demonstrated his understanding of the Schrödinger equation, a partial differential equation which is of central importance to quantum mechanics theory. Considering his young age, Inha University formed a committee of seven, named \"Song Yoo-Geun Committee,\" including professors and his mother, who gave him private lessons instead of the usual classroom style lectures. Inha University also provided Song with his own lab, and a residence space, so that he can stay with his parents, at his parents' request. His first semester GPA was 3.8/4.5, approximately equivalent to a B+. However, In December 2008, mere two years after he has begun his studies, he decided to withdraw from Inha University, since he felt \"difficult to study within the framework that the professor has arbitrarily decided for themselves.\" He said, \"I want to study string theory or big bang theory, but I cannot do that as an undergraduate student.\"Of the 140 credits required for graduation, Song received 53 credits from Inha University, and 113 credits from an on-line degree institution. On this, Inha University said, that it \"respects Song's decisions.\" To fulfill total credit hours to apply for a graduate school, he achieved Bachelor's degree using Credit Bank System.\n\nUniversity of Science & Technology (UST) as a master's student in February 2009, with the intention of studying astronomy. Like Inha University, UST formed a committee of professors, titled \"Song Yoo-Geun Project,\" and Song was given private lessons in lieu of classroom lectures. The topics of the lectures varied from quantum field theory, nuclear physics, astronomy, and topology. The university set aside 100 million Korean won (approximately $80,000 USD) for Song's classes and research. In February 2010, UST announced that Song was accepted to its combined master's and Ph.D. program, with the goal of obtaining a Ph.D. in 2012.\n\nHe studied under the guidance of Dr. Park Seok-jae, whose specialized area is black hole modeling. He passed his candidacy exam in November 2014, by a presentation entitled \"Gromov-Witten Invariants on Real Hypersurfaces of Kähler Manifold,\" and declared his intention to become a mathematician to the press. However, he again changed his mind to study black hole.\n\nDuring a press conference in 2005, after he was admitted to Inha University, he brought a machine that purifies air, and gave a demonstration of it. The press and the Inha University officials reported that Song claimed it to be a machine that he invented himself, to thank the Korean citizens for their support, it became known later that the machine was in fact designed by a small company. According to CEO of JC Technologies, Song's father told him that being able to show off the machine in front of the press will help with its sales, and he had borrowed it from the company. Song's father quickly admitted this misunderstanding, saying that \"Song has ambitions to study air purification methods using photosynthesis, so he just did a demonstration. There may have been parts where we were misunderstood, as this was our first large-scale press conference.\"\n\nIn 2015, \"The Astrophysical Journal\" (ApJ) retracted Song's paper due to plagiarism issue. ApJ noticed that the paper plagiarized a 2002 book chapter, which was originally a proceeding paper of Song's advisor, Dr. Park Seok-jae.\n\nDr. Park first denied the plagiarism controversy towards Song, insisting he will \"resign his position if any part of his paper is found unoriginal.\" He also argued that Song's work on partial differential equation is totally of Song's, which is worth to be a \"meaningful contribution as a doctoral student.\" Against the argument that several parts of Song's paper is appeared to overlap Dr. Park's proceeding in 2002, Dr. Park said that the proceeding is conventionally not considered as an 'official' paper, so citing the proceeding paper is not a requirement nor an offence against academic integrity or research ethics.\n\nIn November, UST finally decided to take a disciplinary action to Song, punishing him for an offence.\n\nIn August 2018, UST officially announced that Song was disqualified in the final defense and he failed to have the Ph.D. degree. \n\n"}
{"id": "2442443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2442443", "title": "Training bus", "text": "Training bus\n\nA training bus is a special kind of bus or coach that is used by bus operators for training the driving skills of bus drivers. It is also used to train the driving skill of a person who is learning to become a bus driver. Driving a training bus on the road is an important part of driving training, as it is the most practical to train one's driving skill.\n\nA training bus is usually a bus that has been retired from the passenger-serving fleet. Some bus companies may like to repaint the bus with a special livery for training bus after the bus is retired from the passenger-serving fleet, which is usually white or a plainer version of the company's regular livery. Some bus companies may also remove most of the facilities (such as passenger seats) from a training bus, so that those facilities can be installed onto some newer buses. On a training bus, there is usually another seat for the driving instructor (trainer) next to the driver's seat. This allows the instructor to monitor how trainee is driving and give appropriate instruction when necessary.\n\nThe use of training buses for practical training is especially popular among the . In Hong Kong, training buses are known in Chinese as \"訓練巴士\" (pinyin: Xùn liàn bā Shì). Training buses used in Hong Kong, such as those used at Kowloon Motor Bus, are typically buses that are older buses and retired from its main bus fleet, therefore only used for training purposes and not for passenger services. However, for route training and other service or safety improvement trainings, in-service buses may be used.\n\nIn contrast, other jurisdictions may use active-service buses for training; this will be at non-peak service times when more buses are available. The head sign may be set to read 'TRAINING', and a sign mounted at the rear as well.\n\nThe Toronto Transit Commission uses training buses on regular routes or roads with sign display the bus as a training bus for real life training for new drivers. The bus will not be in service and will only stop briefly at select bus stops.\n\n"}
{"id": "35892240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35892240", "title": "Transfer admissions in the United States", "text": "Transfer admissions in the United States\n\nTransfer admissions in the United States refers to college students changing universities during their college years. While estimates of transfer activity vary considerably, the consensus view is that it is substantial and increasing, although media coverage of student transfers is generally less than coverage of the high school to college transition. A common transfer path is students moving from two-year community colleges to four-year institutions, although there is also considerable movement between four-year institutions. Reasons for transferring include unhappiness with campus life, cost, and course and degree selection. There are no standardized rules nationwide for transfers, and requirements vary by college. However, many states have taken steps to make the transition easier and less problematic, particularly from community colleges to four-year schools within the state, by various methods including school-to-school credit arrangements called articulation agreements. While many state universities are constrained by budget cuts which have sometimes lessened the number of spots open to transfer students, there are reports that many private colleges are becoming more assertive in seeking transfer applicants. Nevertheless, the transfer process can be difficult, such that transfer applicants have been described as collegiate \"academic nomads\" who face various obstacles trying to make sure their credits transfer properly to their new school. Unlike admission from high school directly to college, there is less data nationwide about transfer admissions, although there are signs that this is changing.\n\nAdvisors agree that much of the advice applicable to high school applicants to college is the same for transfer applicants, such as the need for visiting schools and trying to find one which is the \"right fit\". The admissions process for transfer students is somewhat different from that for high school seniors. Transfer applicants are more often evaluated by college grades, with standardized test results being less important. The statistical chance of being accepted into a college by a transfer arrangement was 64%, a figure slightly lower than the acceptance rate for first-year college students of 69%. Transferring into elite and highly selective schools is still quite difficult.\n\nThe most common transfer pathway is from two-year community colleges to four-year colleges within a state. Students beginning their collegiate education at community colleges save \"enormously\" on tuition, since most live with their parents and many work full-time.\n\nBut there have been transfers occurring in the other direction, with students from private universities switching to state schools after two years, sometimes as a way to reduce cost. And many students switch between four-year colleges. Some students find themselves unhappy with their current college, and decide to switch for a variety of reasons, usually having to do with a program of study or a feeling about a particular school that the \"fit\" is not right, or concerns over cost. A notable example of a high profile transfer was United States President Barack Obama, who transferred from Occidental College to Columbia University during his college days.\n\nEstimates vary considerably regarding how many college students transfer. Several reports suggested about a third of college-aged students had transferred at least once during their college careers, which includes transfers from community or two-year colleges to four-year colleges, as well as transfers between four-year colleges or universities. A high estimate was that 60% of students attended more than one collegiate institution between the ages of 18 and 24, and this estimate includes 20% who transferred from one four-year institution to another one. A third estimate was that only 20% of students in four-year colleges were transfer students. A fourth estimate, from the National Center of Education Statistics, was that 2.5 million college students transferred each year. In 2009, one report was that 566,400 students at schools surveyed by \"US News\", transferred from one institution to another in that year. A report in 1999–2000 suggested that a fifth of community college students intended to transfer to four-year colleges, and an additional 24% were taking courses for personal enrichment or for transfer purposes. Another report suggested that only about a quarter of community college students followed through on their plan to transfer to a four-year college or university.\n\nTransfer students tend to be disproportionately from poorer families, according to one report. A report suggests that many transfer students have \"far more experience in the ups and downs of the working world\" and tend to bring more diversity to a college campus. A second report confirms that \"transfers graduate at a higher rate than students who just finished 12th grade\", and have \"adjusted to a more independent lifestyle.\" Demographic analysis suggests that a slight decline in high school graduates is underway since about 2009, prompting many four-year colleges to make up for the shortfall by bringing in more transfer students.\n\nTransfer students can get financial assistance in the form of merit aid. One estimate was that over three-quarters of colleges (77%) offer merit aid to transfer applicants. Merit aid often varies by college size: smaller colleges with less than 3,000 students were somewhat more likely to offer merit aid (81%) than medium-sized colleges (66%) or large schools (67%). Greater than three-quarters of schools (77%) said that they offer merit scholarships for transfer students. And there are reports that the practice of offering \"transfer scholarships\" is becoming more prominent. There are reports that there is more financial aid for transfer students in states such as New Jersey, which have increased state funds for scholarships such as the NJ STARS II program. There was a report that less selective colleges and universities were somewhat less likely than competitive colleges to award merit scholarships to incoming transfer students.\n\nOne reporter described the transfer process as problematic:\n\nOpenings for transfers vary by type of college, and can vary at a particular college year by year. One source suggested that small liberal arts colleges which have most freshmen completing all four years, tend to have few openings available; in contrast, large state universities often have many positions open, typically to accommodate graduates from two-year colleges. For example, 412 students applied for transfer admission into Amherst College and admitted about 6% of them; in contrast, the much larger Arizona State University had 11,427 transfer applicants and admitted 84% of them. One report described transfer students as \"academic nomads\" struggling to keep credit hours they have earned.\n\nTransfer students, particularly community college students, face many additional obstacles when trying to achieve their transfer goals. While attending a community college is a financially attractive choice to numerous students in the United States, studies have shown that students who enroll in community colleges are significantly less likely to complete a bachelor’s degree when compared to four-year students who started at a university as freshmen. In fact, it is estimated that only 20% of the 1992 high school class originally enrolled at a community college received a bachelor’s degree by the year 2000. Students who have a strong sense of self-efficacy, and feeling of belonging to the campus community, are more likely to persist in their studies. However, transfer students' confidence can be hindered by the stigma associated with having attended community college, which is perceived to be less academically rigorous. Another factor preventing transfer out of community colleges is the requirement of remedial courses for new students. The large need for remedial classes, especially in writing and math, has left students discouraged, as they feel they are repeating high school. In addition, the lack of quality academic counseling has been a problem. Due to the fact that many community college students attend more than one college, proper advising has been hard to come by since each school has its each course numbering system. When a student wishes to transfer to an institution out of state, the process becomes even more complicated as there may be limited articulation agreements.\n\nThe obstacles preventing two-year college students from transferring and earning a bachelor's degree may also be related to motivational and psychological issues. While work, family, and financial issues are the common factors to blame for the decline in transfer rates from community college students, research has shown that motivation to learn and succeed can make a major impact on a student's future. After examining the results from National Longitudinal Surveys, it was discovered that students entering a community college who aimed during their last few years in high school to earn a B.A. or graduate degree yielded the highest transfer rates in 1972 and 1980, the two classes of the study. While the transfer rates in this study declined, a correlation between positive educational aspirations and transfer success was noted. Additional studies have also examined the relationship of psychological and motivational factors with transfer rates. Students who have ambitious career goals are more likely to transfer, and students whose expectations don't exceed the two-year college level are less likely to transfer. Making significant progress and steps at a community college may also be a beneficial factor in maintaining motivation and overcoming the difficulties that transfer students face. Referring back to the results from the National Longitudinal Surveys, it was found that students who transferred without an Associate degree were less likely to complete a B.A. degree than those without one.\n\nOnly in the past decade has the federal government begun requiring colleges to post statistics about transfer students. As a result, there is not much readily-accessible information about historical trends about transfer students. The United States Department of Education did a tracking study in 2003 to analyze the progress of students who started at community colleges in that year, and found that of those planning to transfer to a four-year college, only 15% of them had actually done so within a three-year time interval. Record keeping and data about transfer admissions is not as complete as comparable data for freshman admissions; it varies by school. Researching transfer possibilities is generally more complex than applying to college from high school. Advisors suggest one method to get information about specific schools is to search online and use the Common Data Set:\n\nSo-called \"transfer friendly\" colleges which seek transfer applicants often have a transfer coordinator, housing arrangements for transfer students, an orientation program for transfer students, and are likely to accept most or all of a student's credits from their previous college.\n\nGenerally in the past, the uncertainty surrounding the issue of credit transfers has been a continuing headache for transfer applicants. An applicant might find out, belatedly, that coursework taken at one school would not be accepted at a second school. A general issue with transferring colleges is getting the new college to accept the coursework from the old one. Students often speak with the target college's transfer credit evaluator to get a sense of which credits will be accepted. In past years, the willingness of target colleges to approve credits was described as a \"thorny proposition\". The issue of transferring credits could be further complicated if an incoming school decided that a specific grade in the former school was insufficient for credit or if a transfer student decided to switch majors. There have been stories of students who arrived on campus with worthless transcripts:\n\nA reporter explained that community colleges do not have articulation agreements with every possible target school, and that course catalogs can not provide information about which courses will be accepted at which colleges:\n\nDespite past difficulties with transferring credits, there are numerous reports that colleges are seeking more transfer applicants. To expedite this process, many colleges are taking steps to streamline the credit-approval process and are being more open-minded about accepting credits. Some colleges have \"one-stop transfer centers\" to make final determinations about which course credits will transfer. The American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers oversees colleges and universities and determines such matters as college accreditation, and as a result, most four-year colleges accept credits from colleges that this body approves provided that the student has earned a grade of \"C\" or higher in those courses. One advisor suggested that students should \"get in touch with their target schools as early as possible to make sure their course plan will work.\" Another successful transfer strategy is for students to complete their Associate Degree which, according to one report, will \"essentially guarantee that all of their credits will transfer.\"\n\nStatistics regarding transfer admissions are becoming easier to obtain since most schools follow the Common Data Set format and post information on numerous variables on a website. However, formats vary: some schools use a spreadsheet while others use a pdf. And in some cases, the common data set information is hard to find on a college's website, or buried in a \"Fast Facts\" section. The data in the adjacent table is for selected colleges for the 2010–2011 year. It is average data only, and may change substantially from year to year, and from college to college. Click on the triangles to sort columns by school name, state, number of applicants, and percent acceptances.\n\nMost university admissions offices have an official with the designated responsibility for handling transfer admissions. Transfer students have been counselled to contact the target college's \"transfer coordinator\" or \"transfer officer\".\n\nAdmissions departments, when evaluating transfer applicants, weigh the student's grade point average at their current college to a considerable extent; it is usually the single most important factor overall. One estimate was that 90% of colleges surveyed felt that the college grade point average was \"considerably important.\" A second source confirms that post-secondary grade point average is the \"most important factor for transfer admission.\" Other factors entering into transfer evaluations may include high school grade point average (56% of colleges consider this), recommendations and quality of current college or university programs (48%), essays or writing samples (47%), and scores on standardized tests (42%). As a rule of thumb, the more time that a student has spent with his or her current college, the less another school will be interested in standardized tests taken during high school such as the ACT test or SAT test. A student who has completed two-years at a community college and earned an Associate Degree often will not be asked to supply a high school record or ACT/SAT scores unless he or she earned less than 30 credits. About a tenth of colleges (11%) consider it a negative if the transfer applicant planned to only attend the new school \"part-time\".\n\nTransfer students are usually asked to explain why they would like to transfer, particularly when changing from one four-year college to another. One report advised applicants to avoid saying anything negative about their current school but rather to focus on specific reasons for the change.\n\nAdmissions consultants Howard and Matthew Greene suggested that students should contact target schools early:\n\nTransfer applicants sometimes have difficulty adjusting to a new school. Unlike four-year students, they often have to get acclimated to the institution at a time when they are expected to make decisions about majors and courses of study, and often have to learn new procedures and routines. In addition to reduced housing options, other difficulties encountered include often having to register for courses after four-year students, so many courses are filled up before a transfer student has a chance to sign up for them. Some universities such as Rutgers University in New Jersey have a required one-credit seminar \"course\" to teach incoming transfer students about university life, including topics ranging from football games to art museums, and has 25 \"transfer mentor\" students to help them adjust to campus life.\n\nThere are reports of private colleges making more active efforts to woo community college students as an effort to \"bolster and diversify their enrollments\". Private college admissions departments are more likely to evaluate transfer applicants based on nonacademic variables such as the interview, recommendations, writing samples, and the quality of the applicant's current college. One estimate was that 40% of these schools recalculate a transfer applicant's GPA as part of the evaluation process, by using algorithms to factor in perceived course difficulty and comprehensiveness. One report suggested that private schools, while they tend to be more expensive, were a \"strong option for transfer students\" since they were often unaffected by state budget cuts and tend to have \"better counseling services.\" Private colleges often view applicants from community colleges positively since many have had a track record of finishing their four-year degrees, or what colleges term \"high persistence\", and being successful students with relatively high graduation rates. There are reports that the percentage of community college students who are transferring to private schools is increasing; in the past, the percentage was about 15% to 20%, but the figure is more likely to be higher in recent years.\n\nThere tend to be more transfers to large private institutions, such as DePaul University in Chicago which accepted 1,400 transfer students in 2009, mostly from community colleges. In New Jersey, Seton Hall University keeps track of high school students which it accepts but who then decide to enroll in a community college, and then it sends them letters and emails after a year to try to get them to transfer; in addition, Seton Hall purchases lists of students from Phi Theta Kappa, the two-year college honor society.\n\nThis is the most likely pathway for students transferring from community colleges, usually to a four-year public university within their state. About half of public universities recalculate a transfer applicant's GPA when deciding whether to admit the student. Often large public universities are well-suited to absorb many transfer applicants.\n\nHowever, there are numerous reports from states about constraints placed on incoming transfers because of budget cuts, although the general pattern is that states are working harder to ensure a smoother transition, with transfers of credit, from community colleges to four-year flagship schools. In Virginia, the University of Virginia, which has approximately 14,000 undergraduate students, had 2,434 transfer applications in 2008, and of these, admitted 958, an acceptance rate of 39%. In 2008 in Florida, the University of Florida announced reductions in its transfer class by 33% to cope with budget shortfalls. The picture is similar in Minnesota, with a report that the University of Minnesota is planning to decrease the number of transfer applicants by 8%, meaning that 300 fewer students will be able to transfer into the state's flagship college, although there is a conflicting report suggesting that enrollment at the state's university is increasing. At Maryland's Bowie State University, transfer applicants apply online, pay a fee of $40, ask their current college to send official transcripts of their coursework, and require a minimum of 24 transferable credits with a minimum grade point average of 2.0. Bowie considers applicants from two-year colleges differently from applicants elsewhere; two-year applicants can transfer a maximum of 65 credit hours, while applicants from four-year colleges can transfer a maximum of 90 credit hours. Applicants with fewer than 24 transferable credits must meet the requirements for freshman admission, which includes having their high school transcript and SAT/ACT scores sent. Large \"well-endowed\" private universities such as the University of Southern California and New York University have \"ratcheted up\" efforts to recruit community college transfers to help them improve their \"demographic mix\":\n\nA general picture is that elite colleges and universities accept very few transfer applications and are \"extremely picky\", generally because most of their enrolled students continue through all four years without changing to another school or dropping out, and there are few empty slots to fill. For example, Yale University had 751 transfer applications in 2008, and accepted only 24 of these. Harvard University has not accepted any transfer students in the last few years; Columbia accepted only 8% in 2007, and the University of Pennsylvania accepted only 16% in 2008. These schools are more likely to consider such factors as the quality of the applicant's high school and current college, as well as factors such as the applicant's state and county of residence, race and ethnicity, and alumni relations. One report suggested the essay was highly important, and that an applicant should explain why they wished to change schools. Generally, elite schools do not look favorably on students who try to \"trade up\" to a more \"prestigious bumper sticker.\" Successful transfers into elite schools have \"great grades and test scores,\" and students usually transfer from other elite schools. Some top schools such as Cornell University have articulation agreements specifying how a community college student can transfer into Cornell by taking specific courses and getting good grades in them.\n\nThe consensus view is that transferring from a two-year college to a four-year college—within one state—is smoother than transfers from one state to another. Since community and two-year college programs are often supported by government subsidies at the county or state level, and lawmakers strive to increase educational opportunities for students within their state, there have been many efforts by state legislatures and administrators in flagship universities to facilitate the switch-over from two-year to four-year colleges within each state. In addition, many state colleges standardize their requirements for incoming transfer students, which helps to expedite intrastate transfers. For example, the California State University system gives priority to community college students transferring to four-year colleges within California; one estimate was that 60% of students on its 23 different campuses were transfer students. The University of California has an arrangement to accept many students conditionally to one of its 10 undergraduate campuses if students first complete two years of community college; the plan extended these so-called \"provisional offers of admission\" to 12,700 students in the year 2000 (before the tenth campus opened). In 2010, there were reports that 33,700 students were trying to transfer into the University of California system, but that uncertain state funding issues were complicating matters. A report in 2012 suggested that \"explosive growth in the number of applications\" along with cuts in state funding had prevented the University of California, San Diego from continuing their Transfer Admission Guarantee program.\n\nGenerally, large state universities are well-suited to offer higher education to transfer applicants from within their state as well as elsewhere. The largest state university to enroll transfer students was Arizona State University, according to one report, which enrolled 5,388 transfer students in 2009. Many two-year community or county colleges have longstanding articulation agreements with the flagship universities within their states about accepting transfer applicants. Indiana has been successful in shunting students from its Ivy Tech community colleges to its four-year colleges and that successful transfers, including transfers of credits, has risen 438 percent during the past ten years. There are reports that states such as Virginia and Maryland have made efforts to build a \"transfer pipeline\" from community colleges to public universities to the extent that it was \"changing the traditional path to a four-year degree.\" Virginia has a system in which students at any of its 23 community colleges who earn an Associates Degree have a \"guaranteed transfer\" to one of the state's highly ranked colleges and universities such as Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond. Maryland has an online database so that community college students can know the transfer value of each course. In tight economic times, the path of a relatively inexpensive two-year community college followed by a somewhat more expensive two years at a four-year public university, is often a more realistic choice for cash-strapped families. Frostburg State University has worked on agreements with community colleges to make the transfer between the two schools \"smoother\". Minnesota, as well, has outlined its policy of \"transfer rights and responsibilities\" to smooth the transition. The policy insists students have a right to \"clear, accurate and current information\" about transfer policies including deadline, requirements for degrees, and course equivalencies, while at the same time insisting that students have a duty to enroll in transfer workshops, speak with advisors, and plan out their path towards degrees. In New Jersey, there were reports of many residents transferring to in-state schools in \"record numbers\" in 2009, and that many transfer students were considered to be \"prize catches\" since they had developed a track record of educational achievement at other schools in neighboring states and around the country. New Jersey's 19 community colleges serve approximately 400,000 students, and 61% of them transfer to four-year schools.\n\nIt is possible to transfer to many US universities from universities in other countries. According to the US-UK Fulbright Commission, it is up to the university departments to which the student transfers to decide how much credit courses completed at the previous university are worth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2841736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2841736", "title": "Trinity University College", "text": "Trinity University College\n\nTrinity University College () was a Church University College in Carmarthen, Wales. In 2010, it merged with the University of Wales, Lampeter to become the new University of Wales, Trinity Saint David.\n\nThe institution was founded in 1848 as the South Wales and Monmouthshire Training College.\nTrinity University College began life in 1848 as the South Wales and Monmouthshire Training College, making it the oldest teacher training college in continuous operation in Wales. The college's role was to train young men for teaching in Church primary schools. In the first year of operation, 22 students were recruited and were taught by three members of staff including the first Principal, William Reed. Walter Powell is recorded as the first student; he was 17, previously a draper and worked in a grocery store. The College required its students to follow a strict schedule which included getting up at half past six for a cold bath. Students were often recruited from humble backgrounds, and to remind them of this, the college curriculum included subjects such as gardening and woodwork. The students were expected to have a knowledge of grammar and arithmetic and received education in Latin and Greek. By 1936, the college also had an art block and a gym. The college also placed restrictions on the interaction with the local town, particularly with women and fines were issued for 'girling' (interaction with local women). The strict regime of college life was however broken for activities such as smoking and reading newspapers in the common rooms, musical concerts and entertainment. In the late Victorian era, photography became a great hobby at the college. In the inter-war era, the college gained a reputation for sports (which still exists to this day). The sports practised at the college included, badminton, tennis and hockey. The main sport however was rugby, which has a strong tradition at Trinity and many past students have gone on to become great successes in the sport.\n\nAn account of college life in the 1930s is provided by ex-student George Head, who wrote that the Old Building and the Dewi Hostel combined contained all of the teaching rooms, a gymnasium, the library, the smoking room and common rooms, the secretary offices and the 'Sick Ward' and medical facilities. Church was still at this period a large part of the college life. Interaction with women was still forbidden and punishable. Head does however speak of how fond the students were of the college and how much they took away from it. In particular he recounts the old Trinity College Anthem called \"There is a tavern in the town\"\n\nDuring the Second World War many students were expected to take 'fire watches' and serve as lookouts at night, although this job came with little danger in a town like Carmarthen. Many of the students at the college also joined the Home Guard and took part in drills. In 1938 a Broadcast room was constructed, the foundation stone being laid by the Duke of Kent.\n\nIn 1931, the College changed its name to \"Trinity College, Carmarthen\". Female students were first admitted in 1957 and in 2009, the College achieved \"university college\" status, changing its name to Trinity University College.\n\nOn 14 December 2008, it was announced that Trinity was in merger talks with Lampeter with the intention of forming a new university in Wales. The decision was taken in April 2009 for the merger to go ahead. The name for the newly merged institution would be University of Wales Trinity Saint David. The Welsh Assembly Government announced a £14.03m investment in the newly merged institution in October 2008. The merger formally took place in July 2010.\n\nTrinity College is situated on the outskirts of Carmarthen. It is in a rural setting, surrounded by fields and hills, but is within 10 minutes walk of the town centre. The University is situated around the original 'Old College' of 1848 and is a mixture of lawns and gardens surrounding modern buildings. The main bulk of the university lies at along College Road and Job's Well Road, with some buildings situated away from the main grounds. On the outskirts of the town, near the town leisure centre there is the university's outdoor weather pitch. These facilities were inherited by the new university and continue in use today.\n\nThe campus is centred on the original 1848 'Old Building' of Trinity College. It originally contained all of the original dormitories, common rooms, libraries, an original university quadrangle and teaching spaces. The building today houses several lecture theatres and smaller classrooms often used by the University's school of Justice and Social Inclusion (including Psychology) and, Theology, Religious Studies and Islamic Studies.\n\nAnother feature of the old building of Carmarthen is the Archbishop Childs' hall. Named after Derrick Greenslade Childs, who was Archbishop of Wales, Bishop of Monmouth and director of the Church in Wales. Childs was principal of Trinity from 1965 and died in 1987 shortly after his retirement. The hall is of a classical shape and is hung with framed paintings of Childs. The hall is today used as a venue for conferences, lectures and performances (it contains a grand piano). On the outside of the building, there is a carved crest of the Bishops of Wales. The name of Childs is also given to an upper room in the old building named 'Archbishop Childs room'\n\nThe original 1848 quadrangle has been modified and renamed the \"Cwad\". This comprises a collection of computer suites and study rooms as well as a coffee shop located in the \"old Library\" which serves Starbucks coffee and small meals. This area is also home to the University shop which sells daily essentials for learning.\n\nAttached to the main body of the building is the University Chapel. This space is divided into 3 areas; the main chapel, the ante-chapel and the chaplaincy lounge. The Main chapel is an extension added in 1932, it retains many of its original features such as a large pipe organ and several stained glass features. The ante-chapel is the original 1848 chapel, now dedicated to past students and lecturers who served during the First World War. It has a central font and is decorated with student artwork. Connected to this is the Chaplaincy lounge. This space serves as a comfortable relaxed meeting space for students. It also houses the chaplaincy library, a small collection of literature serving needs of the chapel and its congregation.\n\nThe Halliwell Centre was the College's main conference facility. It is named after Rev. Dr. Thomas Halliwell LL.D. M.A., a former lecturer and principal of the college. The building comprised several large lecture halls, smaller conference rooms and suites, a larger conference hall complete with bar facilities and the Halliwell Theatre, which regularly hosted shows by travelling companies and the universities acclaimed performing arts students. The facilities of the Halliwell were often used by the various schools of the college for lectures and larger seminars. Beneath the main complex were also several more lecture rooms and the drama department.\n\nThe Halliwell Centre also housed the Merlin restaurant, which was the main refectory for catered students.\n\nThis building was named after Carwyn James, a rugby player and former lecturer of the college. This facility was home to the Faculty of Education and Training. It was used to teach degrees such as primary education and its interior was designed to resemble that of a school building. On the second floor of the building, overlooking the quadrangle was the college's 'Quiet Study Facility' which allowed students a comfortable space to work in peace.\n\nThis building housed office space, music suites and practice rooms for the School of Performing Arts. Adjoining this building was the School's main workshop for the degree of theatre production and design.\n\nThe Dewi building was originally built in 1925 as the Dewi Hostel. It was an extension of the original old college and served as an extra wing for student accommodation. An account of the conditions of the hostel survives from a student living in them at the time; \"To keep oneself warm in the new wing during the Winter months was a problem for although it had a system of heating, the heat seldom reached even the second floor. To wash we depended on the rain-water caught in the roof of the building and this was always cold\". In 2010 the building was entirely refurbished primarily as office space into a modern building. It contained the university's main reception, finance office and registry as well as IT facilities which were sometimes used by the School of Business and Tourism.\n\nThe Students' Union building was the centre of student social life on the campus. Constructed in 1972 it comprised two main venues: the Attic Bar which served food and drinks and downstairs 'Unity', the main entertainment venue of the Union. This facility hosted club nights as well as other social events. The Union incorporated many societies, ranging from sports such as rugby and hockey to historical societies.\n\nThe main library of the university Campus was constructed in 1995 to accommodate the growing diversity of subjects on the campus and was located opposite the Parry Block. It was dedicated to the poet Raymond Garlick, who was a principal lecturer in Trinity's Welsh Department. It contained a total of 110,000 books along with academic journals and DVDs. It also housed public computers, printing and photocopying facilities. The first floor contained the bulk of the main collection as well as specialist collections, IT spaces and larger collections. The second floor contained quieter working spaces and the rest of the main collection.\n\nNamed after Canon Parry, a former head of the college, the Parry Block contained a variety of teaching facilities which were used largely by the University's School of Justice and Social inclusion and School of Creative Arts. These included large classrooms and smaller art studios.\n\nNamed after Norah Isaac, a former lecturer and important figure in Welsh drama, this building had a selection of classrooms and lecture suites. Degrees in English and Creative Writing were also taught in this building. It was located directly opposite the Parry Building.\n\nNamed after Robert Hunter, this building contained laboratories, classrooms and lecture halls used by the School of Sport, Health and Outdoor Education. The facility was located near the Myrddin Accommodation blocks, and was surrounded by picturesque gardens and ponds.\n\nNamed after the author Dafydd Rowlands, this building was the hub of the School of Film and Visual Media. It was used by many of the creative arts degrees and contained lecture rooms, crafting spaces and an office space for the School of Visual Media.\n\nThe students' union building at the college was constructed in 1972 for the purposes of serving the growing number of students deciding to live on campus. It was a large building, complete with a club called Unity and the Attic Bar. Trinity had several sporting and academic societies and clubs run by the union. The university college also had a Christian Union and Amnesty groups.\n\n\nThe college could accommodate 600 of its students, though many elected to live in private accommodation in town.\n\nTrinity had a long history of sport and from its very beginnings sport played an important role in students' life. Rugby was an important and strong tradition at Trinity and many of its past Alumni went on to become very successful in the sport.\n\nShortly before merger, the college had a fully equipped gymnasium and sports hall. It had a climbing wall, a swimming pool, tennis courts and an astroturf. As well as this the college had large playing fields and all-weather pitch near the town leisure centre. Sport was also studied academically through the Schools of Nutrition Health and Exercise and Sport, Health and Outdoor Education.\n\nThe campus' general workshop and costume workshops were used by students of theatre design. Venues for theatrical performances included a tiered theatre in the Halliwell Centre, a 160-seat facility with a sprung floor which could be used for dance rehearsals, Theatr Parry, and Theatr Fach (which contained a green screen and was used as a recording studio).\n\nThe college also housed workshops designed for different arts and crafts such as woodwork, fine art and ceramics. There were also modern media suites which allowed students to engage with 2D and 3D moving artwork and an Apple Mac lab equipped with dual core i-Macs, as well as Mac Pro towers to enable students to have an industry standard experience. In addition, the campus was home to the 'final cut' film studio and recording and editing studios used by Film and Media students.\n\nHistorically, Trinity College was primarily concerned with the discipline of teacher training. It had a long and constant history with the subject. This tradition continued throughout the institution's history and the college became one of the UK's chief providers of the subject. As it developed, Trinity College began to teach a wide range of subjects including:\n\n\nAfter obtaining university status, the College also began awarding postgraduate degrees.\n\nFormer students include rugby players Dewi Bebb and Barry John, singers Stuart Burrows and Rhys Meirion, Pam Evans, founder of Peace Mala and writers Gwyn Morgan and John Owen and Prof David Kitchener, Professor of Inclusion and Diversity, University of Bolton. Former lecturers include Raymond Garlick, Norah Isaac, Islwyn Ffowc Elis and Carwyn James.\n\n"}
{"id": "5233335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5233335", "title": "Tunis University", "text": "Tunis University\n\nTunis University (, ) is a university in Tunis, Tunisia. It was founded in 1960 on the basis of earlier educational establishments. \n\nThe University of Tunis is a member of the Mediterranean University Union (UNIMED) and of Agence universitaire de la Francophonie.\n\nThe university is organised into the following institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "51026047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51026047", "title": "USERN", "text": "USERN\n\nUSERN, the official acronym of universal scientific education and research network, is established in 2015 and the Basic Statute of USERN was drafted on 21 January 2015, which was revised on 20 March 2016 to be signed by a number of top scientists worldwide.\n\nUSERN organized exclusively for advancement of authentic, ethical and professional scientific research and education and consequently advancement of science for non-military purposes and public good.\n\nMaking international interdisciplinary scientific projects and providing a platform for more effective communication among young researchers and experienced scientists, all over the world, is a head of USERN's schedule.\n\nThe USERN advisory board includes top 1% scientists in all disciplines based on ESI and Nobel laureates.\n\nThe executive team is consist of interested students and graduates who are responsible for executive affairs of USERN.\n\nAt the beginning of 2016, USERN started its official activities and after the first meeting of top 1% scientists, it has started to get membership throughout the USERN website.\n\nUSERN Prize is an international award, established by USERN, which would be annually bestowed to junior scientists or researchers less than 40 years of age for any novel advancement or achievement in scientific education, research, or serving the humanity in five scientific fields including medical sciences, life sciences, formal sciences, physical sciences, and social sciences.\n\nThe international USERN congress was held for the first time in Tehran on 8 to 10 November 2016 with a new horizon for science. The congress was wrapped up on 10 November, the global day of science for peace and development with awarding the USERN international prizes to 5 global young scholars from the United States, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Iran. Science without borders, the slogan and main goal of the scientific network of USERN and its congress, was manifested in the unique organization of this conference. Dr. Nima Rezaei the founder and the head of Universal Scientific Education and Research Network (USERN) and the secretary of the first congress of USERN said: \"we are going to remove any kind of border for science, the borders among different sciences, the geographical borders and the borders among scientists with experience and young scientists.\"\n\nThe USERN congress was held as an interdisciplinary confab, with speeches delivered by scientists from the US, Europe and Asia. About 1000 participants most of whom PhD students and some undergraduate students have attended the conference. The participants’ age were ranged from 16 to 75, coming from different cities of Iran, Germany, Spain, and Iraq. Students from Medical Sciences, Biology, Chemistry, Physics and Engineering were in the greatest number compared to other areas of study.\nThis congress was attended by 14 scholars who are among the top one percent of world scholars and 20 Iranian scholars who are among the top one percent of Iranian scientists (according to ISI).\n\nThe closing day of congress and awarding the international rewards ceremony of USERN, the universal scientific education and research network prize or USERN prize will be awarded in 10 November the World Science Day for Peace and Development to 5 young scholars under 40 ages in different theoretical sciences (Mathematics and Computer), Physics sciences (Physics, Chemistry, Engineering), Environmental Sciences, Medical Sciences, and Social Sciences.\n\nFloris De Lange (Netherlands) in Social Sciences\n\nFor: Expectation sharpens the visual response\n\nAlexander Leemans (Belgium/Netherlands) in Medical Sciences\n\nFor: Processing and Visualization in Diffusion Imaging\n\nJamshid Aghaei (Iran) in Physical Sciences\n\nFor: Evaluating Technical Benefits and Risks of Renewable Energy Sources Increasing Penetration in Electrical Networks\n\nMorteza Mahmoudi (Iran/USA) in Biological Sciences\n\nFor: Defining the Biological Identity of Nanotherapeutics for High Yield Cancer Therapy\n\nLucas Joppa (USA) in Formal Sciences\n\nFor: Technology for Nature\n\nThe 2nd international USERN congress was held in Kharkiv, Ukraine on 8 to 10 November 2017.\n\nMatjaž Perc (Slovenia) in Social Sciences\n\nFor: Transitions Towards Cooperation in Human Societies\n\nLucina Qazi Uddin (USA) in Medical Sciences\n\nFor: Brain Dynamics and Flexible Behavior in Autism and Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity\n\nMaria-Magdalena Titirici (UK) in Physical Sciences\n\nFor: The Design of Efficient and Low Cost Electrocatalysts Catalysts Without the Use of Critical Metals\n\nValentina Cauda (Italy) in Biological Sciences\n\nFor: Hybrid Immune-Eluding Nanocrystals as Smart and Active Theranostic Weapons Against Cancer -TrojaNanoHorse\n\nManlio De Domenico (Italy) in Formal Sciences\n\nFor: Multilayer Structure and Dynamics of the Physical World: Modeling the Complexity of Systems of Systems \n\nSince the beginning of its establishment, and in order to promote universal scientific education and research, USERN has signed several Memorandum of Understanding (MOUs) and established several offices in scientific research centers and universities worldwide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17816068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17816068", "title": "Universidad Nacional del Sur", "text": "Universidad Nacional del Sur\n\nThe National University of South (in Spanish: \"Universidad Nacional del Sur\", UNS) is the largest national university in southern Argentina. Its motto is \"Ardua Veritatem\", which means \"through the difficulties to the truth\".\n\nThe university was founded on January 5, 1956, and absorbed what had been the Technological Institute of South (Instituto Tecnológico del Sur, ITS), a former National University of La Plata affiliate established in 1946. Located in the city of Bahía Blanca, the school became the sixteenth in Argentina's national university system .\n\nThe Instituto Tecnológico del Sur was created on October 9, 1946 by Provincial Act No. 5051, and it began its activities under the academic dependence on the National University of La Plata. In 1947, the Nation and the province Buenos Aires signed an agreement that stated that both of them would supply the funds for the operation and maintenance of the institute. On February 12, 1948, the incumbent president, Juan Domingo Perón, appointed Dr. Miguel López Francés as President of the University, who was in charge of adopting the necessary measures for the organization thereof. The official inauguration ceremony of the ITS was held on February 20, 1948. The category of university was granted in 1950, however, it was cancelled in 1952, and it depended again on the Ministry of Economy of the Nation. The first graduate of the Institute was Engineer Nereo Roberto Parro, in 1953, who was a natural of the town of Tornquist. In 1955, after the fall of Perón's government, Professor Pedro González Prieto was appointed auditor of the institute, and proceedings before the national government began for the institute to become a national university. After the studies carried out by an advisor committee appointed by the Executive Power, the creation of the Universidad Nacional del Sur was approved by decree law No. 154, dated January 5, 1956.\n\nIn 1956 Professor Vicente Fatone was appointed Auditor President. Classes at the brand new institution began on April 1 of that same year. The UNS was the seventh national university created in the country, after the universities of Córdoba (1613), La Plata (1890), Tucumán (1912), Litoral (1919), and Cuyo (1939).\n\nThe new institution organized its academic structure into Departments, instead of the traditional Schools. Departments have a smaller administrative structure and allow for knowledge flexibility and inter-disciplinarity. Thus, academic units do not have to create for their careers those courses given at other departments, so that students can take them at the corresponding departments. The first Departments were Accountancy, Economics, Physics, Geology and Geography, Mathematics, Engineering, Humanities, and Chemistry.\n\nAfter just a month of its opening, two students who had begun their careers at the Institute, Jorge Laurent and David Tomás Prieto, took the exams for the last courses, thus becoming the first graduates in the institution. The first woman to obtain her degree at the UNS was Betty Kerlleñevich, from Bahía Blanca, one of the founding students of the ITS, who also obtained a degree in engineering.\n\nThe main university complex is located at Alem 1253, where most of the Departments and laboratories operate as well as the Central Library. It is a large building that takes up more than a block and at the front there is a fountain with a sculpture by the artist Lola Mora. There are other buildings at the same premises:\n\nAt the intersection of 12 de Octubre and San Juan streets, are the buildings for the Departments of Humanities, Economics, Geography and Tourism, and Administration Sciences.\n\nIn the area known as \"Altos del Palihue\" there is another complex where the Departments of Agronomy and Law are located. There, the university has several acres of land, in which the Escuela de Agricultura y Ganadería \"Ing. Agr. Adolfo J. Zabala\" is also located.\n\nThe building located at Colon 80 originally corresponded to the headquarters of the Universidad Nacional del Sur. At present, the activities of the President's Office and its Secretariats are focused here, together with other administrative offices.\n\nAt Alem 925 is the \"Casa de la Cultura\", a colonial mansion that was formerly the center of an important villa. In this building, the General Secretariat of Communication and Culture organizes artistic and cultural activities. The University Foundation (FUNS) and Publishing House (EdiUNS) are also located there. In the buildings located at 11 de Abril 445 are the Escuela Superior de Comercio, Escuela de EGB (Initial Level, Levels 1, 2, and 3) and Escuela Normal Superior.\n\nCurrently, it includes sixteen departments: \n\n"}
{"id": "5125377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5125377", "title": "University college (Scandinavia)", "text": "University college (Scandinavia)\n\nA university college (Swedish: \"högskola\"; Norwegian: \"høyskole\", \"høgskole\" or \"høgskule\"; Danish: \"professionshøjskole\"; literally meaning \"high school\" and \"professional high school\") in Denmark, Norway and Sweden is an independent institution that provides tertiary education (bachelor and master's degrees) and quaternary education (PhD). Most of these institutions traditionally had emphasis on less academic and more vocational programmes such as teacher or nursing education as well as shorter technical education; historically, these institutions were somewhat similar to a Fachhochschule in Germany and to a Polytechnic in the United Kingdom. The term is also used for some specialized universities.\n\nToday, the distinction between university colleges and universities is of less importance in Sweden and Norway. In Denmark university colleges grant non-academic degrees, but these may in some cases give access to further education at master level at a university.\n\nThe Swedish government is the only entity that can attribute university status. However, the exact situation of Swedish university colleges varies in that respect, i.e. many them may are engaged in substantial research and grant doctoral degrees in a number of fields. The main difference between an institution with full university status and a university college lies in the larger variety of academic subjects offered at a university, and the traditional right of the university to award doctoral degrees in any field.\n\nIn Norway three separate categories of university colleges exist:\n\nThe difference between a university and a university college is that a university has received the status of university from the Norwegian government. Only the government has the authority to grant university status. In the past years, any institution that offered at least four PhD programmes has been allowed apply for university status, and in recent years several university colleges have received university status, becoming so-called \"new universities\". In 2014 the government announced that no institutions would become new universities in the near future. In 2015 the government announced new and more strict criteria.\n\nThe practical distinction between universities and university colleges has been gradually reduced through legislative reforms in 1995 and 2005, and the two types of institutions are now governed by the same law, have the same basic structure and in principle the same obligation to provide research-based education.\n\nIn Denmark, university colleges (professionshøjskoler) are similar to universities of applied sciences. Danish university colleges offer profession specific tertiary education, also known as medium higher education (MVU) and diploma courses, but do not offer university education at postgraduate level.\nThe duration of bachelor’s programmes is seven semesters and corresponds to 210 ECTS. Specific to university college programmes is that curricula always include internships and placements. This focus on professional practice as opposed to academics is what separates a bachelor's degree at university colleges from a bachelor’s from a university.\nThe difference between a university and university college degree is narrowing. Since 2012, university colleges have been awarded the right and governmental funding to carry out applied research.\nIn addition, several bachelor's degrees are articulated with master's degrees at research universities in Denmark and abroad.\nDenmark has 7 university colleges, which all have a school of health and a school of education, pedagogy, and social studies. Some also have a school of technology, a school of business, and a school of design.\nIn addition to higher educational programmes, university colleges are important suppliers of lifelong education for public and private industries.\n\nUniversity college is the most widely used official English translation in Sweden, Norway and Denmark, although some such institutions use the term university in English instead (for instance Malmö University and Södertörn University). The terminology may be confusing to foreigners as university colleges are not constituent \"colleges of another university\" as some may understand the word literally, but rather \"institutions in their own right and standing\".\n\nThe Swedish term \"högskola\" and the Norwegian term \"høyskole\", \"høgskole\" or \"høgskule\" would mean \"high school\" in a word-by-word translation. This translation is also misleading, as these institutions provide tertiary level education, not secondary education as American high schools do.\n\nSome of these university colleges do aspire a lift to full university status by the Swedish or Norwegian government, and have therefore changed their translated English name to \"university\", although they are not a university by Swedish and Norwegian law. A full university in Sweden requires extensive own research, a breadth of academic disciplines and a licence to award doctor's degrees in all fields it teaches. In Norway, university status may be conferred to an institution offering at least four PhD programmes.\n\nThe term \"högskola\", \"høyskole\",\"høgskole\" or \"høgskule\" is also used by a number of specialised universities, especially the technical universities. Some subunits of the universities in Sweden also use of the term \"högskola\" to mark their status within the larger university or for traditional reasons. For instance, several engineering faculties call themselves \"teknisk högskola\" in Swedish, like Lunds Tekniska Högskola and Linköpings Tekniska Högskola which both were originally established independently of their respective universities.\n\n"}
{"id": "36111180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36111180", "title": "University of Pedagogical Sciences", "text": "University of Pedagogical Sciences\n\nThe University of Pedagogical Sciences \"Hector Alfredo Pineda Zaldivar\" (UCPETP) (), originally named \"Héctor Alfredo Pineda Zaldívar Higher Pedagogical Institute\" (, ISPETP) is a Higher Education, post-graduate and doctoral research university located in Boyeros, Havana, Cuba. It has the mission to prepare professors capable of developing high level professionals in different areas of engineering. It works to become the national leader of scientific and technical-pedagogical excellence for the improvement of the Technical and Professional Education and for its leading role of the technical careers in the rest of the pedagogical institutions.\n\nThe creation of the university has its origin in a project of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) requested by Cuban Government. It was originally named Higher Technical Pedagogical Institute of Technical Education (ISPET) and it was installed in the Center of Students of Agricultural Sciences (CEDCA), in the municipality of Boyeros. This project was included in the United Nations Development Program (PNUD) with the specification CUB 71-511. It began in the 1972-1973 academic year with an emerging training course. It is officially created in the course 1973-1974.\n\nIn the academic year 1976-1977 with the network of Pedagogical Institutes of the MINED, the center becomes the ISPETP and works with the Faculties of: Technology, Agricultural Sciences and Economic Sciences. The licentiate degree of all the specialties was imparted in the present Superior School of Management of the Industry Ministry and in some places of the Polytechnic \"José Martí\".\n\nIn 1979 the Faculty of Mechanics was approved. From 1986 the ISPETP was made with students graduated from the related specialties and is assigned the name of Héctor Alfredo Pineda Zaldívar, outstanding educator of the center that lost his life in the fulfillment of his professional duty.\n\nIn 1987, the creation of the Center's Scientific Council was approved. In 1991 arises the Center of Studies for Technical and Professional Pedagogy (CEPROF). From 1992-1993 the faculties merged in:\n\n\nDue to the economic difficulties, faculties were created in Pedagogical Institutes in the rest of the country and the students were transferred to each of their provinces of origin.\n\nThe Institute now leads the Technical Education in the country, being responsible for the work of scientific and methodological advice. Today the institution carries out an intense academic work that extends in and out of our geographical borders, forming and training hundreds of professionals of the teaching in Professional Pedagogy.\n\nAt present, the faculties are arranged as follows:\n\n\nThis University of Pedagogical Sciences is named after one of its professors: Héctor Alfredo Pineda Zaldívar, who fell in unequal combat in the Zumbe region, in the People's Republic of Angola where he collaborated as a teacher. The person after whom ISPETP is named is unknown to the outside world.\n\nIt was originally named Higher Technical Pedagogical Institute of Technical Education (ISPET). In the academic year 1976-1977 the name changed to Instituto Superior Pedagogico para la Ensenanza Tecnica y Profesional \"Hector Pineda Zaldivar\" (ISPETP) to reflect the evolution from Technical to Technical and Professional education.\n\nSometimes, ISPETP is written as University of Pedagogical Sciences () in some English literature, such as journals, etc. It is still known as ISPETP, due to the popularity and easy pronunciation of that short name.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4074444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4074444", "title": "Use of social network websites in investigations", "text": "Use of social network websites in investigations\n\nSocial network services are increasingly being used in legal and criminal investigations. Information posted on sites such as Instagram, Orkut and Facebook has been used by police and university officials to prosecute users of said sites. In some situations, content posted on Instagram has been used in court to determine an appropriate sentence based on a defendant's attitude.\nThe U.S. DOT National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) has made federal grants available to states to train law enforcement officers to use social media sites to identify events that may result in impaired driving or consumption by minors. As of 2012, Michigan spent over $4.5 million through this program, and has trained over 100 local police officers to use social media cites to identify and target events.\n\nFacebook, a social network service, is increasingly being used by school administrations and law enforcement agencies as a source of evidence against student users. The site, a popular online destination for college students, allows users to create profile pages with personal details. In the early years of the site, these pages could be viewed by other registered users from the same school, including resident assistants, campus police, or others who signed up for the service. The user privileges and terms of service of the site have since been changed to allow users to control who has the ability to view their content.\n\nRecent disciplinary actions against students based on information made available on Facebook has spurred debate over the legality and ethics of school administrators' harvesting such information. Facebook's Terms of Use specify that \"the website is available for your personal, noncommercial use only,\" misleading some to believe that college administrators and police may not use the site for conducting investigations. However, Facebook spokespeople have made clear that Facebook is a public forum and all information published on the site should be presumed available to the general public, school administrators included. Legal experts agree that public information sources such as Facebook can be legally used in criminal or other investigations.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 2011 Vancouver Stanley Cup riot, community participation in assisting police to identify the rioters has been described as unprecedented. Police admitted to being overwhelmed by the amount of evidence provided by social media.\n\nIt has become increasingly common for colleges and universities to use Facebook to investigate underage drinking and violations of dry campus policies. Students who violate these policies may be discovered through photographs of illicit drinking behavior, membership in drinking-related groups, or party information posted on the Facebook website. Some examples of such investigations are listed below:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFacebook and other social networking sites are being used to bring bullying outside of school. Students are being targeted on the internet and even mobile devices. A new strategy to catch cyber-bullies is being implemented in Reading, Berkshire: \nIndian law addresses some of the components of cyber-bullying. However, the perpetrators are children and therefore alternatives to criminalization and other policies should be adopted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42715468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42715468", "title": "Wall of the Sun and Wall of the Moon", "text": "Wall of the Sun and Wall of the Moon\n\nThe Wall of the Sun and Wall of the Moon are a pair of murals made of ceramics and designed by the Catalan artist Joan Miró for the UNESCO building in Paris. The works were carried out by the ceramicist Josep Llorens Artigas in 1955. Initially, the walls were installed on the Place de Fontenoy in Paris, but afterwards were enclosed in a building that was constructed in order to protect them from damage caused by acid rain.\n\nJoan Miró and Josep Llorens Artigas met in 1910 at the school of art of the artist Francesc Galí (1880–1965), in Barcelona. Since the 1940s, Miró and Josep Llorens Artigas started an artistic duo that spawned objects and large ceramic murals such as one at the Unesco building in Paris or the ceramic wall of the Barcelona Airport. These works fused Miró lexicon with the essential qualities of the arts of earth and fire.\n\nIn 1955 Joan Miró was contacted by the heads of UNESCO to ask if he want to take part of the team of artists that decorated the future headquarters of the institution that is located in Paris. Once agreed, they granted the exterior walls of the building conferences, two perpendicular walls of three meters high and seven meters long and fifteen, respectively. Miró proposed to make a ceramic mural in collaboration with Llorens Artigas.\n\nIn 1956, Miró began working on the mural in his studio in Palma. The following year he went to the Caves of Altamira in with Llorens Artigas inspired to carry on the work, by seeing \"the first mural in the world\". They also visit the Colegiata y Claustro de Santa Juliana and the romanesque collection of the Museum of Art of Catalonia, the current MNAC.\n\nOnce inspired, Miró moved to Gallifa, at the workshop of Artigas, to proceed to prepare the tile mural. It took 35 batches, 25 tons of wood, 4 tons of sandstone and 200 kilos of enamel. Once finished, the pieces were transported to Paris. Although he had worked in large formats, he had never done ceramics. Beside the ceramist Josep Llorens Artigas, they failed to find technical feasibility for baking pottery in a way that allows to obtain a background textures similar to the paintings of that time. It was decided that the composition was on the subjects of \"Sun\" and \"Moon\".\n\nThe two mosaic murals were assembled \"in situ\" by a team of technicians under the direct supervision of Miró and Llorens Artigas. The works were inaugurated in 1958, as same as the building, and received rave reviews. Even one of the murals, the \"Wall of the Sun\" won the Biennial Prize of Guggenheim Foundation. Miró later return to work for UNESCO, designing the UNESCO Medal for Pablo Picasso.\n\nInitially, the walls were outdoors, but later moved inside the building to protect them from damage caused by acid rain.\n\n\n"}
