{"id": "647324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=647324", "title": "Accredited investor", "text": "Accredited investor\n\nAn accredited or sophisticated investor is an investor with a special status under financial regulation laws. The definition of an accredited investor (if any), and the consequences of being classified as such, vary between countries. Generally, accredited investors include high-net-worth individuals, banks, financial institutions and other large corporations, who have access to complex and higher-risk investments such as venture capital, hedge funds and angel investments.\n\nLaws may require that some types of financial offerings may only be made to accredited investors.\n\ns 708(8) of the Corporations Act 2001 is found in Chapter 6D (Fundraising). It defines \"sophisticated investor\" so as to exclude them from certain disclosure requirements.\n\nThat section provides for an accountant to issue a certificate stating that an individual meets the criteria prescribed in the \"Corporations Regulations 2001\", namely net assets of at least $2.5 million, or a gross income for each of the last 2 financial years of at least $250,000.\n\nThere is a second definition of \"sophisticated investor\" in s 761GA of the Corporations Act 2001 in Chapter 7 (Financial services and markets). It defines sophisticated investors so that they can be treated as wholesale (rather than retail) clients.\n\nAccording to ASIC, a person with a sophisticated investor certificate is a sophisticated investor for the purpose of Chapter 6D, and a wholesale client for the purpose of Chapter 7.\n\nOn December 17 2014, CVM issued the Instructions No. 554 and No. 555, which became effective from July 1 2015.\n\nThe definition of accredited investors under the United States SEC’s Regulation D are analogous in Brazil to the combination of two categories of investors, classified by the \"Comissão de Valores Mobiliários\" (CVM) as “\"investidor professional\"” (professional investor) and “\"investidor qualificado\"” (qualified investor) under Instruction 539, articles 9-A and 9-B.\n\nAn \"Accredited Investor\" (as defined in NI 45 106) is:\n\nNote that as of 2016, many provinces in Canada now allow non-accredited investors to invest in private markets - under specified limits.\n\nRetail clients requesting treatment as 'elective' professional clients (as defined by Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID)) must satisfy at least two of the following \"quantitative\" criteria in assessing the client's expertise, experience and knowledge:\n\n\n\ns 5 of the Securities Act (1978) defines a sophisticated investor in NZ for the purposes of subsection (2CC)(a), a person is wealthy if an independent chartered accountant certifies, no more than 12 months before the offer is made, that the chartered accountant is satisfied on reasonable grounds that the person\n(a) has net assets of at least $2,000,000; or\n(b) had an annual gross income of at least $200,000 for each of the last 2 financial years.\nThere is a further section that follows stating that an experienced investor is one who has satisfied a financial investor that they meet certain criteria.\n\nIn Singapore, Accredited Investor is defined in Section 4A(1)(a) of the Securities and Futures Act (SFA), Chapter 289.\n\n\nIn the United States, to be considered an accredited investor, one must have a net worth of at least $1,000,000, excluding the value of one's primary residence, or have income at least $200,000 each year for the last two years (or $300,000 combined income if married) and have the expectation to make the same amount this year.\nThe term \"accredited investor\" is defined in Rule 501 of Regulation D of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as:\n\n\nThe SEC has considered a change to the definition of \"accredited investor\" to create a new class of potential investors: \"accredited natural persons\". The proposed changes would stipulate that an \"accredited natural person\" must be both \"accredited investor\" under the existing standards and also own not less than $2.5 million in investments (as currently defined in the Investment Company Act for purposes of the Section 3(c)(7) exemption) on the date an investment is made. \nThe $2.5 million test will be periodically adjusted for inflation.\n\n"}
{"id": "3589008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3589008", "title": "Administrative Office of the United States Courts", "text": "Administrative Office of the United States Courts\n\nThe Administrative Office of the United States Courts (AO) is the administrative agency of the United States federal court system. It was established in 1939.\n\nThe AO is the central support entity for the federal judicial branch. It provides a wide range of administrative, legal, financial, management, program, and information technology services to the federal courts.\n\nThe AO is directly supervised by the Judicial Conference of the United States, the body that sets the national and legislative policy of the federal judiciary, which is composed of the Chief Justice of the United States, the chief judge of each court of appeals, a district court judge from each regional judicial circuit, and the chief judge of the United States Court of International Trade.\n\nThe AO implements and executes Judicial Conference policies, as well as applicable federal statutes and regulations. The AO facilitates communications within the judiciary and with Congress, the executive branch, and the public on behalf of the judiciary.\n\nThe mission of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts (AO) is to provide a variety of support functions to the United States federal judiciary. The AO prepares and submits the budget for the courts to the Judicial Conference for approval by Congress. It analyzes legislation from Congress that will affect the courts' operations or personnel, and it interprets and applies the new laws. It also provides administrative help to members of the courts in the form of clerks, probation and pretrial services officers, court reporters, and public defenders. It also works together with the General Services Administration to develop and operate suitable accommodations for federal courts, either in federal buildings or in standalone federal courthouses.\n\nThe director of the AO serves as Secretary of the Judicial Conference and is appointed, along with the deputy director, by the Chief Justice of the United States. The AO includes an Office of the General Counsel, Office of Judicial Conference Executive Secretariat, Office of Public Affairs, Office of Legislative Affairs, Office of Judges Programs, Office of Court Administration, Office of Human Resources, Office of Finance and Budget, Office of Facilities and Security, Office of Defender Services, Office of Probation and Pretrial Services, Office of Information Technology, and an Office of Internal Services.\n\nThe Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts was established by an act of Congress on November 6, 1939. With the establishment of the Administrative Office and the circuit judicial councils, Congress for the first time provided the judiciary with budgetary and personnel management agencies that were independent of the executive branch of government. For 150 years, administrative responsibility for the federal courts shifted from the Treasury Department to the Interior Department in 1849 and to the Justice Department in 1870. (The Conference of Senior Circuit Judges, established in 1922, was an advisory body.) By the late 1930s, a coalition of judges, lawyers, academics, and Justice Department officials agreed that the efficient administration of justice, as well as the principle of judicial independence, required a separate agency with officers appointed by and responsible to a body of judges.\n\nBy the early-twentieth century, some judges expressed concern that the Justice Department’s administrative oversight of the courts was ineffective and, more importantly, posed the threat of interference with the judicial process. Reform proposals ranged from separate appropriation bills for the courts to the authorization of senior circuit judges as administrators for all the courts within their respective circuits. Some circuits established conferences of judges to discuss problems of case management and court administration. The Roosevelt administration’s Judicial Reorganization Bill of 1937, best known for its provision to enlarge the Supreme Court, included provision for appointment of a proctor who would gather data on the business of the courts and make recommendations for reassignment of judges and improved case management. Many district court judges resisted this centralization of authority over individual courts that had operated with so much autonomy for a century and a half, but there was widespread support for some reform that would facilitate judicial business and eliminate the Justice Department’s role in the daily operations of the federal courts.\n\nAfter the defeat of Roosevelt’s \"court-packing\" plan, Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes responded to suggestions for less sweeping administrative changes. He appointed members of the Conference of Senior Circuit Judges to work with representatives of the American Bar Association and Justice Department officials to draft legislation that would improve the efficiency of the courts at the same time that it respected the decentralized character of the federal judicial system. The committee’s proposed Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts would collect information on the caseload of the courts, prepare the annual budget request for the courts and disburse funds appropriated to the judiciary, and offer administrative assistance to the courts. The act authorized the Supreme Court to select the director of the Administrative Office, but, at the insistence of Chief Justice Hughes, the office was to operate under the supervision of the Conference of Senior Circuit Judges rather than the Court.\nThe committee proposal found broad support in both the Senate and House of Representatives, which considered several versions before passage in August 1939. The act established circuit judicial councils through which the courts of appeals judges would review the caseload reports of the Administrative Office and instruct district judges on what was necessary to expedite the courts’ business. It also mandated annual circuit conferences at which circuit and district judges would meet with members of the bar to discuss judicial administration.\n\nJames C. Duff is the current Director of the AO. On November 4, 2014 it was announced by Chief Justice John Roberts he would once again become Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, effective January 5, 2015. He succeeded Director Judge John D. Bates.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26621962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26621962", "title": "Agreement on the Conservation of Polar Bears", "text": "Agreement on the Conservation of Polar Bears\n\nThe Agreement on the Conservation of Polar Bears is a multilateral treaty signed in Oslo, November 15, 1973, by the five nations with the largest polar bear populations: Canada, Denmark (Greenland), Norway (Svalbard), the United States, and the Soviet Union. This treaty was brought about due to increased hunting of polar bears during the 1960s and 1970s which led to polar bears being under severe survival pressure from hunters.\n\nThe agreement prohibits random, unregulated sport hunting of polar bears and outlaws hunting of polar bears from aircraft and icebreakers which have been the most detrimental to the polar bear population. Additionally, the agreement holds member states accountable for taking appropriate actions to protect the ecosystems of which the polar bears dwell, paying special attention to places where polar bears create dens, do a majority of their feeding, and where they migrate. States also must manage polar bear populations in accordance with proper conservation practices based on the best available scientific data.\n\nAccording to the agreement the killing of polar bears is only warranted for \"bona fide\" scientific purposes, to prevent serious disturbances of other living resources such as human populations, and by local people using traditional methods in the realm of their traditional rights in accordance with the laws of that party. Yet the skins or any other items of value that are taken as a result of the killing of a polar bear cannot be used for commercial purposes. Also important to this agreement is that member states must prohibit the exportation, importation, and trafficking of polar bears within their states. These nations share their polar bear research findings and meet every three to four years to coordinate their research on polar bears throughout the Arctic. This agreement was one of the first of its kind and continues to be successful today in the international conservation of polar bears.\n\n"}
{"id": "44750942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44750942", "title": "Al-Sweady Inquiry", "text": "Al-Sweady Inquiry\n\nThe Al-Sweady Inquiry was a five-year public inquiry led by Thayne Forbes which investigated accusations of mistreatment of prisoners by the British Army following the Battle of Danny Boy. The enquiry commenced its investigations in 2009.\n\nThe inquiry cost nearly £25 million. The report was published in December 2014 and concluded that the allegations of torture and murder were \"wholly without foundation and entirely the product of deliberate lies, reckless speculation and ingrained hostility\", but that nine Iraqi detainees had been ill-treated.\n\nSubsequently Leigh Day, one of the law firms involved, were referred to the Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal to answer complaints about its handling of action brought by Iraqi detainees against the Ministry of Defence. Another, Public Interest Lawyers, later closed down.\n"}
{"id": "28654385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28654385", "title": "Belgium–Korea Treaty of 1901", "text": "Belgium–Korea Treaty of 1901\n\nThe Belgium–Korea Treaty of 1901 was negotiated between representatives of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Korean Empire.\n\nIn 1876, Korea established a trade treaty with Japan after Japanese ships approached Ganghwado and threatened to fire on the Korean capital city. Treaty negotiations with several Western countries were made possible by the completion of this initial Japanese overture.\n\nIn 1882, the Americans concluded a treaty and established diplomatic relations, which served as a template for subsequent negotiations with other Western powers.\n\nThe Belgians and Koreans negotiated and approved a multi-article treaty with provisions similar to other Western nations.\n\nMinisters from Belgium to Korea were appointed in accordance with this treaty; and they were Leon Vincart, consul general, October 17, 1901, with Maurice Cuvelier as vice consul.\n\nThe treaty remained in effect even after the protectorate was established in 1905.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29052805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29052805", "title": "Cameroonian constitutional referendum, 1960", "text": "Cameroonian constitutional referendum, 1960\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Cameroon on 21 February 1960. The new constitution would make the country a federal presidential republic with a unicameral federal parliament. It was passed by 60% of voters with a 75.5% turnout.\n"}
{"id": "23871404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23871404", "title": "Child pornography laws in the United States", "text": "Child pornography laws in the United States\n\nChild pornography laws in the United States specify that child pornography is illegal under federal law and in all states and is punishable by up to 20 years' imprisonment or fine of $5000. The Supreme Court of the United States has found child pornography to be \"legally obscene\", a term that refers to offensive or violent forms of pornography that have been declared to be outside the protections of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. Federal sentencing guidelines on child pornography differentiate between production, distribution, and purchasing/receiving, and also include variations in severity based on the age of the child involved in the materials, with significant increases in penalties when the offense involves a prepubescent child or a child under the age of 12. U.S. law distinguishes between pornographic images of an actual minor, realistic images that are not of an actual minor, and non-realistic images such as drawings. The latter two categories are legally protected unless found to be obscene, whereas the first does not require a finding of obscenity.\n\nChild pornography under federal law is defined as any visual depiction of sexually explicit conduct involving a minor (someone under 18 years of age). Visual depictions include photographs, videos, digital or computer generated images indistinguishable from an actual minor, and images created, adapted, or modified, but appear to depict an identifiable, actual minor. Undeveloped film, undeveloped videotape, and electronically stored data that can be converted into a visual image of child pornography are also deemed illegal visual depictions under federal law. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit has held that images created by superimposing the face of a child on sexually explicit photographs of legal adults is not protected speech under the First Amendment.\n\nNotably, the age of consent for sexual activity in a given state is irrelevant; any depiction of a minor under 18 years of age engaging in sexually explicit conduct is illegal. Federal prosecutors have secured convictions carrying mandatory minimum sentence of 15 years of imprisonment for producing visual depictions of individuals above the legal age of consent but under the age of 18, even when there was no intent to distribute such content. The legal definition of sexually explicit conduct does not require that an image depict a child engaging in sexual activity. A picture of a naked child may constitute illegal child pornography if it is sufficiently sexually suggestive.\n\nFederal law prohibits the production, distribution, reception, and possession of an image of child pornography using or affecting any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce (18 U.S.C. § 2251; 18 U.S.C. § 2252; 18 U.S.C. § 2252A). Specifically, Section 2251 makes it illegal to persuade, induce, entice, or coerce a minor to engage in sexually explicit conduct for purposes of producing visual depictions of that conduct. Any individual who attempts or conspires to commit a child pornography offense is also subject to prosecution under federal law.\n\nFederal jurisdiction is implicated if the child pornography offense occurred in interstate or foreign commerce. This includes, for example, using the U.S. Mails or common carriers to transport child pornography across state or international borders. Federal jurisdiction almost always applies when the Internet is used to commit a child pornography violation. Even if the child pornography image itself did not travel across state or international borders, federal law may be implicated if the materials, such as the computer used to download the image or the CD-ROM used to store the image, originated or previously traveled in interstate or foreign commerce.\n\nIn addition, Section 2251A of Title 18, United States Code, specifically prohibits any parent, legal guardian or other person in custody or control of a minor under the age of 18, to buy, sell, or transfer custody of that minor for purposes of producing child pornography.\n\nLastly, Section 2260 of Title 18, United States Code, prohibits any persons outside of the United States to knowingly produce, receive, transport, ship, or distribute child pornography with intent to import or transmit the visual depiction into the United States.\n\nUnder federal law, finding of guilt on most child pornography related offenses carry severe consequences, such as mandatory minimum sentences of several years and registration as a sex offender.\n\nA first time offender convicted of producing child pornography under 18 U.S.C. § 2251, face fines and a statutory minimum of 15 years to 30 years maximum in prison.\n\nChild pornography offenses for transportation (including mailing or shipping), receipt, distribution, and possession with the intent to distribute or sell child pornography offenses each carry a mandatory minimum term of 5 years of imprisonment and a maximum term of 20 years.\n\nSimple possession of child pornography is punishable by up to 10 years in federal prison, but does not carry a mandatory minimum term of imprisonment. If a defendant has a prior federal or state conviction for one or more enumerated sex offenses, the penalty ranges are enhanced.\n\nUnder the Crime Victims' Rights Act (CVRA), 46 codified at 18 U.S.C. § 3771, federal law enforcement officials must notify a child pornography victim (or his or her guardian if the victim is still a minor) each time the officials charge an offender with a child pornography offense related to an image depicting the victim. Such notifications can be emotionally traumatic.\n\nIn the United States, pornography is considered a form of personal expression governed by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. Pornography is generally protected speech, unless it is obscene, as the Supreme Court of the United States held in 1973 in \"Miller v. California\".\n\nChild pornography is also not protected by the First Amendment, but importantly, for different reasons. In 1982 the Supreme Court held in \"New York v. Ferber\" that child pornography, even if not obscene, is not protected speech. The court gave a number of justifications why child pornography should not be protected, including that the government has a compelling interest in safeguarding the physical and psychological well-being of minors.\n\nThe initial iteration of , first passed in 1988, mandated that producers of pornographic media keep records of the age and identity of performers and affix statements as to the location of the records to depictions. However, rather than penalties for noncompliance, the statute created a rebuttable presumption that the performer was a minor. Pub. L. 100-690. This version was struck down as unconstitutional under the First Amendment in \"American Library Association v. Thornburgh\", 713 F. Supp. 469 (D.D.C. 1989), \"vacated as moot\", 956 F.2d 1178 (D.C. Cir. 1992).\n\nAfter Thornburgh, Congress amended 2257 to impose direct criminal penalties for noncompliance with the record-keeping requirements. The same plaintiffs challenged the amended statute and accommanying regulations, but the new version was upheld in \"American Library Association v. Reno\", 33 F.3d 78 (D.C. Cir. 1994).\n\nIn \"Sundance Association, Inc. v. Reno\", 139 F.3d 804 (10th Cir. 1998), the Tenth Circuit rejected the regulation's distinction between primary and secondary producers and entirely exempted from the record-keeping requirements those who merely distribute or those whose activity \"does not involve hiring, contracting for, managing, or otherwise arranging for the participation of the performers depicted\". 18 U.S.C. § 2257(h)(3).\n\nHowever, after 2257 was amended in 2006 by the Adam Walsh Act, the court ruled that Sundance's restrictions no longer applied to the amended statute and generally ruled in the government's favor on its motion for summary judgment. \"Free Speech Coalition v. Gonzales\", 483 F. Supp. 2d 1069 (D. Colo. 2006).\n\nSimulated child pornography was made illegal with the Child Pornography Prevention Act of 1996 (CPPA). The CPPA was short-lived. In 2002, the Supreme Court of the United States in \"Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coalition\" held that the relevant portions of the CPPA were unconstitutional because they prevented lawful speech. Referring to \"Ferber\", the court stated that \"the CPPA prohibits speech that records no crime and creates no victims by its production. Virtual child pornography is not 'intrinsically related' to the sexual abuse of children\".\n\nIn response to the demise of the CPPA, on April 30, 2003, President George W. Bush signed into law the PROTECT Act of 2003 (also known as the \"Amber Alert Law\").\n\nThe law enacted , which criminalizes material that has \"a visual depiction of any kind, including a drawing, cartoon, sculpture or painting\" that \"depicts a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct and is obscene\" or \"depicts an image that is, or appears to be, of a minor engaging in ... sexual intercourse ... and lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value\". By its own terms, the law does not make all simulated child pornography illegal, only that found to be obscene or lacking in serious value.\n\nIn November 2005 in Richmond, Virginia, Dwight Whorley was convicted under 18 U.S.C. sec. 1466A for using a Virginia Employment Commission computer to receive \"obscene Japanese anime cartoons that graphically depicted prepubescent female children being forced to engage in genital-genital and oral-genital intercourse with adult males\". He was also convicted of possessing child pornography involving real children. He was sentenced to 20 years in prison.\n\nOn December 18, 2008, the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the conviction. The court stated that \"it is not a required element of any offense under this section that the minor depicted actually \". Attorneys for Mr. Whorley have said that they will appeal to the Supreme Court.\n\nThe request for \"en banc\" rehearing of \"United States v. Whorley\" from the Court of Appeals was denied on June 15, 2009. A petition for writ of certiorari was filed with the Supreme Court on September 14, 2009, and denied on January 11, 2010, without comment.\n\nThe PROTECT Act also amended , which was part of the original CPPA. The amendment added paragraph (a)(3), which criminalizes knowingly advertising or distributing \"an obscene visual depiction of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct; or a visual depiction of an actual minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct\". The law draws a distinction between obscene depiction of \"any\" minor, and mere depiction of an \"actual\" minor.\n\nThe bill addresses various aspects of child abuse, prohibiting some illustrations and computer-generated images depicting children in a pornographic manner. Provisions against virtual child pornography in the Child Pornography Prevention Act of 1996 were ruled unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court in 2002 on the grounds that the restrictions on speech were not justified by a compelling government interest (such as protecting real children). The provisions of the PROTECT Act instead prohibit such material if it qualifies as obscene as defined by the Miller test; the Supreme Court has ruled that such material is not protected by the First Amendment.\n\nIn May 2008, the Supreme Court upheld the 2003 federal law Section 2252A(a)(3)(B) of Title 18, United States Code that criminalizes the pandering and solicitation of child pornography, in a 7–2 ruling penned by Justice Antonin Scalia. The court ruling dismissed the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit's finding the law unconstitutionally vague. Attorney James R. Marsh, founder of the \"Children's Law Center\" in Washington, D.C., wrote that although the Supreme Court's decision has been criticized by some, he believes it correctly enables legal personnel to fight crime networks where child pornography is made and sold. Child pornography is illegal in the US and is not looked at in terms of the typical guidelines of the First Amendment, due to the assumption that it always harms children when it is made, sold, and/or owned.\n\nIn 1994, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 3rd Circuit ruled in \"United States v. Knox\" that the federal statute contains no requirement that genitals be visible or discernible. The court ruled that non-nude visual depictions can qualify as lascivious exhibitions and that this construction does not render the statute unconstitutionally overbroad.\n\nIn 2014, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts found that certain photos of nude children, culled from ethnographic and nudist publications, were not lascivious exhibitions and hence were not pornographic; the court ordered dropping of charges against a prisoner who had been found in possession of the photos.\n\nIn at least one instance, in North Carolina, teenagers in the United States have been prosecuted as adults for possession of images of themselves. As of September 2015 twenty states had enacted \"Romeo and Juliet laws\" which decriminalized such consensual activity with respect to oneself and other teenagers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35683295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35683295", "title": "Civil procedure in South Africa", "text": "Civil procedure in South Africa\n\nCivil procedure in South Africa is the formal rules and standards that courts follow in that country when adjudicating civil suits (as opposed to procedures in criminal law matters). The legal realm is divided broadly into substantive and procedural law. Substantive law is that law which defines the contents of rights and obligations between legal subjects; procedural law regulates how those rights and obligations are enforced. These rules govern how a lawsuit or case may be commenced, and what kind of service of process is required, along with the types of pleadings or statements of case, motions or applications, and orders allowed in civil cases, the timing and manner of depositions and discovery or disclosure, the conduct of trials, the process for judgment, various available remedies, and how the courts and clerks are to function.\n\nThe sources of civil procedure in South Africa are to be found in the Magistrates' Courts Act and Rules, the Superior Courts Act (which repealed and replaced the Supreme Court Act), the Uniform Rules of Court, jurisprudence, court practice rules and other legislation. Notice ought also to be taken of the Seventeenth Constitutional Amendment Bill. Since its establishment in 1985, the Rules Board alone has competence to make rules for courts.\n\nThe Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996, as the supreme law of the Republic, provides the overarching framework for civil procedure; the Constitution has been responsible for significant changes to civil procedure since its inception in the 1990s, as in, for example, debt collection matters, access to the courts and prescription, in particular with respect to litigation against the state.\n\nSection 8 applies Chapter 2 of the Constitution, the Bill of Rights, to \"all law\". Therefore, litigation cannot be conducted without considering section 36 of the Constitution, the limitations clause; and several Chapter 2 rights directly relate to the law of civil procedure: the right to equality before the law (section 9), to freedom and security (12), to property (25), to have access to adequate housing (26), and the right to have access to courts (34).\n\nThe South African court system comprises the lower courts, including indigenous courts, and other judicial and quasi-judicial bodies established by legislation; the superior courts, which the Superior Courts Act defines as the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court of Appeal, and the High Courts; and special courts such as the Small Claims Court, the Labour Court, the Competition Appeal Court, the Tax Courts, the Land Claims Court, and the Electoral Court.\n\nDifferent procedures apply in different courts. There is only a slight distinction between the procedures of the High Court and those in the Magistrate's Court; save where otherwise indicated, it is safe to assume that the form and content of the proceedings is the same. It is important to note, however, that both courts have their own empowering statutes and court rules. The Act, in each case, sets out what kinds of disputes may be heard by each court, and the rules prescribe how the disputes will be brought before court: that is to say, the form of pleadings and time limits.\n\nThe magistrate's courts are the lower courts in South Africa. These are so-called \"creatures of statute\", governed by and created under the Magistrates' Courts Act, and therefore do not have inherent jurisdiction. This means that they may only hear matters prescribed by the Act. There are two kinds: the district Magistrate's Court and the Regional Magistrate's Court. The Republic of South Africa is divided into magisterial districts and regional divisions, and each has a magistrates' court. The Regional Court was previously only a criminal court; however, since August 2010, it has also had civil jurisdiction. Matters in the magistrate's court are presided over by a magistrate under the leadership of a Chief magistrate.\n\nSection 4(3) of the Magistrates' Courts Act provides that all processes issued in a magistrates' court apply throughout the country.\n\nIn terms of the Seventeenth Constitutional Amendment Bill, the Magistrate's Court would be renamed the \"Lower Court,\" and the presiding magistrates known as \"Judges of the Lower Court,\" who would be appointed by the Judicial Service Commission. It is anticipated that both the Seventeenth Constitutional Amendment Bill and the Superior Courts Bill will be promulgated in 2012.\n\nThe term \"High Court\" is misleading, because it suggests that there is only one, whereas in reality there are many, divided into provincial (CPD, ECD, NCD, TPD, NCP, OPD) and local divisions (WLD, DCLD, SECLD).\n\nThe High Court enjoys \"inherent jurisdiction\", which means that it derives its powers from common law (although statutory law does modify these powers). It is due to this inherent jurisdiction that the High Court may hear any matter, whereas lower courts are more limited. Inherent jurisdiction will be exercised in order to prevent abuse of the law, which ultimately exists to properly facilitate the administration of justice. It should be noted that inherent jurisdiction was subsumed under section 173 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa: courts now cannot exercise jurisdiction beyond the ambit of the Constitution.\n\nMatters in the High Court are presided over by judges under the leadership of the Judge President. Administration is led by the office of the Registrar of the High Court, whose duties are similar to those of the clerk of the court.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA), located in Bloemfontein, is the highest court in appeal cases with no constitutional basis. Matters in the SCA are presided over by judges under the leadership of the President of the Supreme Court of Appeal. In terms of the amendments proposed in the Seventeenth Constitutional Amendment Bill, the Constitutional Court would become the highest court in respect of all matters (not just those in which a constitutional point is raised), so that leave to appeal any decision of a high court would be granted directly to the Constitutional Court if this is deemed to be in the interest of justice. The SCA would continue to exist; indeed, its workload would be enhanced, in that it would have to deal also with appeals from courts of similar status to that of a High Court, such as the Competition's Court and the Labour Court.\n\nThis is the highest court in constitutional matters. It is located in Johannesburg and is presided over by judges under the leadership of the Chief Justice.\n\nOwing to the volume of administrative work involved in court matters, each court has a comprehensive system of administration. The key officer in civil matters is the Clerk or Registrar of the Court. This official undertakes such administrative duties as issuing summonses, receiving pleadings, compiling court rolls and keeping records, and also has the task of noting judgments in certain matters.\n\nIn practice, the roles of Clerk and Registrar are often covered by the same person, who wears different hats depending on whether she administers lower-court or regional-court matters.\n\nThe sheriff of the court (known formerly as the messenger of court) is a creature of statute, created by the Sheriff's Act, which came into force in 1990. Her jurisdiction is specific, and her duties are set out in section 14 of the Magistrates' Courts Act and in the Rules. She has the power to deliver and serve court documents and judgments, to execute writs and to conduct arrests. Whereas the clerk or registrar plays a mostly administrative role, the sheriff is charged with more practical matters.\n\nFinally, there are legal representatives and presiding officers.\n\nA civil dispute may be and usually is divided into three stages:\n\n\nThe pre-litigation stage involves certain preliminary enquiries: into, for example, whether there is in fact a case, the kind of action to be taken, the identity of the person against whom it is to be pursued, for how much, by whom, and in which court—everything, that is, which must occur prior to the point at which a dispute is actually referred to a court. It may also involve correspondence with an opponent and the sending of a letter of demand.\n\nOne of the first questions to be asked is on what basis the claim is founded; what, in other words, is the cause of action? The cause of action is essential in identifying the elements which must be proved to be successful with the claim. It is therefore an enquiry into substantive law, assisting in the determination of the appropriate civil procedure to be followed. Examples include breach of contract and damages in delict. The best way to deal with a matter is to identify the cause of action with as much particularity as possible. In the case of breach of contract, for example, one should identify the type of breach, be it misrepresentation or \"mora debitoris\" or something else. A set of facts may disclose multiple causes of action: In the case of a motor-vehicle collision in which a breadwinner dies, a claimant may sue both for damage to the vehicle and for loss of support.\n\nBefore a party may sue in a court of law, he has to prove that he has title to sue. This is determined by two questions:\n\n\nUnder the common law, a litigant had title to sue if he could show that he had a direct and substantial interest in the matter. The requirements were as follows:\n\n\nIn actions based on the Bill of Rights, the grounds on which a litigant may have \"locus standi\" are listed in section 38, in terms of which the following may litigate:\n\n\nSomeone may be the right person to litigate, but he may still lack capacity to sue. Capacity determines a litigant's title not only to sue, but also to be sued. The general rule is that natural and juristic persons have the capacity to sue. There are, however, certain exceptions:\n\n\nIt is important also to note the special position of the following:\n\n\nOnce a person has decided what is his cause of action, and who is going to institute the claim, he can determine out of which court to sue. The general principle in jurisdiction is that the plaintiff has the choice, because he is \"dominus litis\". There are various factors which may affect where a case will be heard:\n\n\nVery often there will be more than one court with jurisdiction. In such a case the plaintiff may simply choose out of which court to sue. He must ensure, however, that he minimises his own cost. Jurisdiction is dealt with in the Magistrates' Courts Act and the Supreme Court Act.\n\nIn terms of section 28 of the Magistrates' Courts Act, a court has jurisdiction over all persons residing within its jurisdiction as well as all property situated within its jurisdiction. It is evident from this section that the court has jurisdiction over the following:\n\n\nSection 28 also confers jurisdiction over any person, regardless of residence or employment, if the cause of action arose entirely within the jurisdiction of the court.\n\nThe court has jurisdiction in terms of section 28 over any party to interpleader proceedings if\n\n\nInterpleader proceedings occur when one party intervenes in execution proceedings, usually because property attached while in the possession of the other party belongs to him. The interpleader summons is issued therefore to try to prevent the sheriff from selling off property that belongs to the first party.\n\nThe district magistrate's court may only hear a matter with a quantum of up to R200,000. The regional court may hear matters with a quantum of up to R400,000. One may not sue for more than these amounts in these courts; nor may one institute a claim whose judgment value is more than these amounts.\n\nThe court may hear the following cases:\n\n\nThere are certain matters which cannot be heard in the magistrate's court. These are dealt with in section 46 of the Act and include\n\n\nThe court has jurisdiction over any defendant who appears and does not object to its jurisdiction. A defendant who fails to object to jurisdiction in his plea is deemed to have consented to jurisdiction. Note, however, that there may be some exceptions, and that such a defendant may only consent to jurisdiction over his person and cannot consent where the court lacks jurisdiction in any event.\n\nAny person who owns immoveable property situated within the area of jurisdiction of the court, where such action is in respect of that property or a mortgage bond over that property, is subject to the jurisdiction of the court.\n\nSection 30\"bis\" deals with court orders for the attachment of property or person to found jurisdiction. This usually occurs where the defendant resides outside the Republic and there is another basis for the court's jurisdiction.\n\nThe Constitution, in section 169, permits High Courts to hear any matter save\n\n\nOtherwise the High Court enjoys jurisdiction over all persons residing and all causes of action arising within its area of jurisdiction. There are three common grounds of jurisdiction in the High Court:\n\n\nHigh Court jurisdiction is founded on the doctrine of effectiveness, which refers to the principle that a claimant must sue out of the court which will be most effective in giving a judgment: that is, the court which is best positioned to enforce the judgment.\n\nIn certain cases, a demand is required as a prerequisite for litigation, failing which a cause of action cannot arise and any action instituted will be premature. The rules of substantive law determine whether or not a demand is an essential element of the cause of action; generally speaking, a demand is required in two instances:\n\nA demand can be made orally or in writing. The purpose of the demand is to inform the prospective defendant/respondent:\nin order to convince the person to meet their obligations and thus avoid litigation.\n\nOnce the pre-litigation issues have been settled, the formal litigation process begins. This stage involves\n\nIn civil procedure, there are two ways to litigate:\nIf the incorrect form of litigation is used, the court may refuse to hear the case or to hear it in its present form, or may allow it to be heard but penalise the party which used the incorrect form when it issues an order for costs.\n\nAction proceedings are heard in so-called \"trial court\". During the trial, parties endeavour to prove the basic facts formulated in the pleadings, by means of witnesses who appear in person and who provide oral, documentary, or real evidence. These witnesses are examined in chief, cross-examined, and re-examined. After all evidence has been led, argument is addressed to the court on the pleadings and on the evidence, and judgment is then delivered.\n\nApplication proceedings are heard in so-called \"motion court\". There are two main types of applications, opposed applications and unopposed applications. Unopposed applications are more common and often only last a few minutes each, so they make up most of the court's roll. Opposed applications are set down separately for hearing, days in advance, and are heard after the unopposed matters have been dealt with. The applicant and respondent confine themselves to arguing only the issues \"on the papers\", meaning that the arguments are limited to legal submissions; the procedure resembles the closing argument stage that normally occurs at the end of a trial action.\n\nA summons has been defined as \"a court process in which the defendant is called upon to enter appearance to defend the action within a stipulated time and to answer the claim of the plaintiff, and in which he is warned of the consequences of failure to do so.\" Action proceedings are characterised by a clear distinction between the pleading stage, and the trial and evidence stage.\n\nThe pleadings consist of ‘‘printed or written statements’’. Except where a party is appearing in person, he or she does not draft or sign the pleadings; this is done by the legal representative. \n\nWhat follows is a series of documentary exchanges, called pleadings, between the parties akin to a conversation on paper. Each party's legal representative sets out the material facts of their complaint or defence, as the case may be, in summary form. This effectively means that conclusions of fact are pleaded. Because pleadings consist of simple statements and do not disclose evidence, they are not affirmed under oath. The procedure is strictly regulated by the rules of court, not least with respect to the time limits that have to be observed. Failure to comply with the rules of court can be fatal for a case.\n\nOnce the process of pleading is completed, the action is set down for trial, where the parties will attempt to prove, with evidence, what is averred in the pleadings.\n\nSummons proceedings are characterised by a clear distinction between the pleading stage and the trial stage.\n\nThere are three types of summons:\n\n\nA simple summons is a document which contains the basis (the particulars of the claim) for the plaintiff's action in the body of the summons. The simple summons is the High Court equivalent of the ordinary summons in the Magistrate's Court. A combined summons, on the other hand, has a more detailed and separate document containing the particulars of claim and is annexed to the summons. As a general rule, the simple summons is used where the claim is for a debt or a liquidated demand. There are certain matters for which a combined summons is prescribed: for example, in divorce matters. In the High Court, however, it is customary only to use a simple summons when one is certain that it is appropriate to do so.\n\nA provisional sentence summons is one whereby a creditor in possession of a liquid document may sue speedily. If the debtor cannot dispute the validity of the liquid document, a provisional judgment will be entered against him. Only once he has paid the judgment debt as security will the debtor be able to enter into the merits of the case. In a recent Constitutional Court decision, it was held that various aspects of the provisional summons procedure were inconsistent with the Constitution.\n\nThe contents of the summons are set out in Rules 5 and 7 of the Magistrates' Courts Act. Similar provisions are contained in Rule 17 of the Uniform Rules of Court. The summons consists of the following:\n\n\nThe summons is usually signed by an attorney, or by the plaintiff personally if he is not represented. Once it has been drafted, it must be issued by the clerk of the court or the registrar, who places a stamp on the document and gives it a case number. Rule 10 of the previous court rules provided for the lapsing of a summons after twelve months if service has not taken place by then. No such provision appears in the amended court rules.\n\nThe rules of court prescribe both the form of the particulars as well as the content. It is only from the particulars that one can see the basis of the action as well as the relief sought. The particulars of claim, then, sets out the facts that give rise to the claim as well as what the plaintiff wants the court to decide.\n\nIn a simple summons, the particulars appear in abbreviated form, often in one line. Prior to the new Magistrates' Court Rules, a defendant who wished to find out more did so by delivering to the plaintiff a request for further particulars in terms of Rule 16 of the Magistrates' Courts Act. No such rule exists in the High Court, and Rule 16 has now also been replaced by Rule 15, which refers to a declaration. The declaration is a separate document in which the Plaintiff must set out his particulars of claim in the same precise manner as he would in a combined summons.\n\nRule 6 of the Magistrates' Courts Act, and Rule 18 of the Uniform Rules, set out the form and content of pleadings in general. With respect to the form, particulars of claim must be divided into separate paragraphs and numbered consecutively with each averment appearing in a separate paragraph.\n\nWith regards to the content, it must contain the following:\n\n\nRule 6 of the new Magistrates' Court Rules and Rule 18 of the High Court have specific rules regarding certain categories of cases, namely\n\n\nFailure to comply with these rules will result in the pleading's being irregular.\n\nOnce the summons has been issued by the registrar or clerk of the court, it may be served. Service of court process is undertaken by the sheriff. In practice, the attorney takes the original summons with any annexures, together with one copy for the defendant (or as many copies as there are defendants) to the sheriff. The sheriff will deliver the document to the defendant. There are prescribed forms of service that are permitted by law. The following general terms apply to the service of documents:\n\n\nOn arrival at the defendant's house, the Sheriff hands to the defendant a copy of the process and is required to show him the original and to explain the meaning of the document. The defendant will often sign on the back page of the process to acknowledge receipt thereof. The Sheriff is required then to submit to the attorney a return of service (if he is successful) or a return of non-service (if he is unsuccessful).\n\nRule 9 of the Magistrate's Court, and Rule 4(1)(a) of the High Court, make provision for the methods of service. These include\n\n\nWhere a party is unable to serve in any of the following conventional ways, the Magistrate's and High Court rules make provision for service via substituted service and edictal citation. The former is where the instituting party applies to the court to grant some other form of service: for example, via newspaper. The latter is frequently used in service of process on a defendant who is resident outside the Republic.\n\nOnce the summons, with all annexures, has been served on the defendant, and the required time period for a response has lapsed without such a response, a party can apply for judgment. This is judgment on the basis that the defendant is in default. Default judgment is entered or given in the absence of the party against whom it is made. It frequently occurs when a defendant has failed to file his notice of intention to defend, but it can also be entered against the plaintiff. In terms of the rules, default judgment is granted in the following circumstances:\n\n\nThe consequences of each depend on which of the above circumstances applies:\n\n\nA request for default judgment must be in writing and lodged with the clerk or registrar of the court. The request is sent to the registrar. If the defendant has not filed an appearance to defend, there is no need to send a copy of this request to the defendant. A request thus consists of the following documents:\n\n\nThe request must set out that the papers are in order as well as the grounds on which the request is being brought.\n\nOrdinarily a default judgment may be granted administratively. This means the clerk or registrar is permitted to grant the judgment, provided that the papers are in order. In matters where the claim is not for a debt or a liquidated demand, default judgment can only be obtained after either giving oral evidence before court or providing same by way of affidavit. When faced with a request, a magistrate or clerk can do one of the following:\n\n\nIf the defendant decides to oppose the action as set out in the summons, he is required to deliver a notice setting out his intention within ten days of receipt of the summons (or twenty days in the case of the state).\n\nThe document sets out the defendant's intention to defend the action, as well as the address at which he will receive all further documents in the proceedings. The appearance should indicate the physical, postal, email and fax number of the defendant, provided that the physical address is within fifteen kilometres (MC) and eight kilometres (HC) of the court house. The document must be signed by the defendant or his legal representative. The notice should also indicate the manner in which the defendant prefers all further pleadings and documents to be exchanged.\n\nThe notice is delivered to the plaintiff by either physically delivering it to his address, or via registered mail. There is no requirement to send the document through the sheriff. The word \"deliver\" entails that a copy of the document is served on the opposite party and the original filed with the clerk of the court. In the event of a notice to defend being filed, a plaintiff may, under certain circumstances, file an application for summary judgment.\n\nPrior to the amendment of the MC rules, Rules 15 and 16 made provision for a defendant, requesting further particulars to the cause of action, to clarify any issues in the particulars of claim to plead to the case before him. This rule has now been removed and replaced with one which deals with proving a declaration and further particulars for the purposes of a trial. The High Court rule was also removed many years ago.\n\nShould a plaintiff elect to issue a simple summons (HC) or ordinary summons (MC), and the defendant decides to defend the matter by filing his notice of intention to defend, the plaintiff is then obliged to file a declaration.\n\nThe declaration is similar to the particulars of claim filed in a combined summons and must therefore contain all the essential averments of the cause of action. It will set out in detail the nature of the claim, the conclusions of law that the plaintiff is entitled to make from the facts, and a prayer setting out the relief to be claimed. If the plaintiff's claim consists of a number of claims, each claim should be dealt with separately in the details referred to above.\n\nRule 15(1) instructs a plaintiff to deliver the declaration within fifteen days of the date of the receipt of the notice of intention to defend. Should the plaintiff fail to do so, a defendant may, in writing, request the plaintiff to deliver such declaration within five days. Should the plaintiff fail to deliver the declaration, the defendant may set the action down for hearing on a further day days' notice to the plaintiff; in the event of the plaintiff's being in default to rectify his default or to appear on the date, the defendant may apply for absolution of the instance or judgment.\n\nWhere a defendant is faced with a summons, he has two choices—either\n\n\nWhere a defence is on the merits, the defendant files a plea; where the defence is on a technicality, the defendant either files an exception or an application to strike out.\n\nPreviously, a defendant in the MC filed an exception where he wished to raise an objection based on one of the following listed grounds:\n\n\nAll of the above are technical aspects of the summons that are apparent \"ex facie\" (on the face of) the document. The amended MC rules only make provision for exception on the first two grounds. This is brought in line with the HC rules, which provide for exception on the first two grounds. The rationale of the exception is that a defendant cannot be expected to file his defence if he is prejudiced somehow. The aim of the exception is thus to have the summons dismissed and do away with the action in its entirety.\n\nThe exception must be raised within 10 days of receipt of the notice of intention to defend.\n\nThe exception is taken by way of a notice of motion without an affidavit. It sets out the basis of the exception, as exactly which aspect of the summons that the exception is levelled against as well as the grounds for the exception. Where the exception is taken on the grounds that the summons is vague and embarrassing, the defendant is required to state that he has given the plaintiff a chance to rectify the cause of complaint. A prayer appears at the end of the notice of exception in which the defendant requests the court to uphold the exception and dismiss the claim.\n\nIf an exception is not raised timeously, the defendant may not raise it at a later stage unless he has the leave of the court. The exception may not generally be raised during the trial. Once the notice of exception has been filed on the plaintiff, the exception has to be enrolled for hearing. This is usually done on ten days' notice (MC) and five days' notice (HC). A formal hearing thus proceeds where the party raising the exception (the excipient) has the onus of proof. The excipient must prove not only that the summons is defective but also that he will suffer prejudice if the court does not uphold his exception.\n\nIf the exception is upheld, the plaintiff may be ordered to rectify his papers or court may dismiss the plaintiff's claim. In such a case, this only amounts to final judgment if the plaintiff does not then apply for leave to amend his papers. If the court dismisses the exception, the defendant is then required to file his plea within ten days.\n\nIt is important to note the difference between a special plea and an exception.\n\nThe second ground on which an objection can be levelled against a summons is the application to strike out. Previously in the MC, a defendant raised this defence on three grounds:\n\n\nThis section has now been brought in line with the HC rules, which provide for an application to strike out to be brought on the following grounds:\n\n\nThe aim of the application is to delete the offending portions of the pleading.\n\nThe form of the notice of application to strike out is very similar to the notice of exception. The notice points out the grounds on which the application is being made as well the exact section or sections of the pleading against which the application is being brought. The application is then heard in the same way as the exception.\n\nOne way of defending oneself against a claim is to give one's own version of events. This is called the plea. It is the document in which the defendant answers the allegations raised by the plaintiff.\n\nThe plea is generally delivered within twenty days after delivery of the notice of intention to defend. It is also delivered in other circumstances.\n\nIn terms of MC Rule 17 and HC Rule 22, when drafting a plea a party must answer every material allegation. Where a party does not deal directly with an allegation, it will be deemed to be admitted. In the plea, a party must\n\n\nThe plea is contained in one document.\n\nWhere a party wishes to raise some technical defect about the summons, this is done by filing either an exception or an application to strike out. These defects are those which are apparent on the face of the pleading. A party may, however, wish to raise an objection based on a defect that does not appear from the face of the pleadings, in which case he will raise a special plea.\n\nA special plea may be raised on the following listed grounds:\n\n\nWhere a party fails to raise the above issues, the court assumes that the party condones the other party's failures in those respects.\n\nThe plea (usually referred to as the plea over the merits) and the special plea appear in the same document. Although a successful special plea has the effect of dismissing the action, it is not frequently set down before the trial. On the trial date, the court will simply deal with the special plea before it proceeds to the plea on the merits.\n\nThere is no specific reference to a special plea in either the MC rules or the HC rules. It is well established in South African law, though.\n\nIn a plea, a party simply answers the allegations raised by the plaintiff. It frequently occurs, however, that the defendant has a counterclaim. The rules provide that a party may file a counterclaim against the plaintiff. A counterclaim is often called a claim in reconvention. The same rules apply as those in the claim in convention. The plea and counterclaim are set out in the same document or in two separate documents, filed and served at the same time.\n\nAfter a defendant has filed a plea, the plaintiff may file a replication (or reply) if he wishes to plead new facts in answer to a defendant's plea. If the plaintiff merely denies everything stated by the defendant in his plea, no reply is necessary.\n\nIf a defendant filed a claim in reconvention (called a counterclaim), the plaintiff will be obliged to file a plea to such a counterclaim, which is similar to the defendant's plea to the claim in convention (the plaintiff's claim).\n\nRule 21 (MC) indicates specifically when pleadings are considered closed. This is called \"litis contestatio\", and it means that the litigants have reached finality in regard to all the allegations of fact forming the basis of the claim and defence. Once the pleadings are closed, a plaintiff or defendant may apply for a trial date.\n\nVarious documents are exchanged before the matter is ready to proceed to trial. The three most important are\n\n\nRule 23 (MC) and Rule 35 (HC) deal with the discovery of documents. Both are substantial and indicative of the importance of this step prior to proceeding to trial.\n\nBoth plaintiff and defendant will normally provide each other with a request to discover. This notice will contain portions consisting of Rule 23 (1), (6) and (11) of the MC, and Rule 35 of the HC. It requests either party to discover—that is, set out in a list—all the documents, correspondence, etc., which they have available, and to make these items available to the other party. A party receiving such a request must respond by filing a discovery affidavit within a certain period. On receipt thereof, the receiving party may request copies of any or all documents listed therein.\n\nThe purpose of discovery is to ensure that an opponent is not caught by surprise at trial. Any document not discovered may normally not be used at trial unless by consent or on application to court.\n\nWhile the issues will have been resolved, to a large extent, prior to the close of pleadings, it may be possible to reach consensus on some further issues that were placed in dispute before the close of pleadings or were not dealt with in the pleadings. This is normally done at a pre trial conference.\n\nRule 25 (MC) and Rule 37 (HC) deal with this question. Rule 37 lists the issues that should be raised at the conference:\n\n\nAlthough it is generally thought to be advisable that all these aspects be covered in a pre-trial conference in the magistrate's court, the rule does not specify this.\n\nThe pre-trial conference is normally attended by the parties' legal representatives. In some courts, the registrar will refuse to award a trial date until the pre-trial conference has been held. While many legal representatives do not take this rule seriously, and merely go through the formalities so as to move to the trial date, this is not recommended.\n\nThe old Rule 15 and 16 (MC) dealt with the obtaining of further particulars before pleading to the plaintiff's case. Because this rule has been removed, a defendant no longer has the benefit of asking questions to clarify certain aspects of the plaintiff's claim at this early stage of the case. The new Rule 16 (MC) and Rule 21 (HC) have been introduced to assist with this.\n\nIn terms of Rule 16(2), a party may ask only such further particulars as are strictly necessary to prepare for trial. This must be done at least twenty days before trial. Should a party fail to deliver such particulars timeously or sufficiently, the party so requesting may apply to court\n\nto strike out the defence.\n\nThe question of an award for costs, because of unnecessary use of the rule, is also considered.\n\nThis is, for various reasons, an important tool. It is recommended that the request be drafted as long as possible before the trial, as failure to comply may result in various interlocutory applications, which may take time. Every effort must be taken to ensure that all these procedures are completed well before the trial date, as a postponement of the trial could have disastrous consequences for both parties.\n\nOnce the process of pleading is completed, the action goes to trial.\n\nNormally, once the court has given a final order or judgment, the matter is closed. The original court may not revisit the matter; it is \"functus officio\". Under certain exceptional circumstances, however, a court may alter or cancel its judgment.\n\nJudgments may be varied in two ways in the High Courts:\n\n\nThe High Courts have authority at common law to \"supplement, clarify or correct\" their own judgments. This would seem to overlap with their inherent jurisdiction to regulate their own proceedings in the interests of justice. Using this power, they have varied their judgments\n\n\nRule 42(1) supplements the common law by providing for certain instances in which the court may, either \"mero motu\" or on application by one of the parties, set aside or vary one of its judgments or orders. The element that is more or less common to all the instances of variation or rescission under this rule is that of error. The rule provides for variation in the following instances:\n\n\nDefault judgment may be rescinded in the High Court in the following ways:\n\n\nDefault judgments on liquidated claims must be rescinded in terms either of the common law or of rule 42(1).\n\nSection 36 of the Magistrate's Court Act refers to the \"rescission\" of a judgment. The expression ‘setting aside’ of a judgment is, however, often encountered as a synonym and is well established in practice. Rescission of a judgment is in issue not only in cases in which default judgment has been granted, but also in cases in which application is made for the rescission of a summary judgment, as well as in cases in which judgment has been granted in the absence of a defendant in terms of rule 60(3), where the defendant has not supplied further particulars requested of him.\n\nSection 36 is similar to High Court rule 42(1), providing that the court may, on application, rescind or vary\n\n\nWhile it may not do any of the above in the absence of an application from any person affected by the judgment, it may, \"mero motu\", correct patent errors in any judgment in respect of which no appeal is pending. If a plaintiff in whose favour a default judgment has been granted has agreed in writing that the judgment be rescinded or varied, a court must rescind or vary such judgment on application by any person affected by it.\n\nIt does not matter, therefore, whether a default judgment has been obtained as a result of the failure of the defendant to enter appearance to defend, or as a result of the failure of the defendant to plead.\n\nRule 49 was the subject of extensive amendment in 1997. Earlier cases must be used with caution in the interpretation of the new rule. In certain important respects, the new rule appears to revise the position as set out in the old cases.\n\nApart from applications for the rescission of default judgments, the procedure by means of which a party will make an application for the rescission or variation of a judgment in the Magistrates' Courts is set out in rule 49(7), which requires that such applications be\n\n\nIf the rescission or variation is sought on the ground that the judgment is void \"ab origine\", or was obtained by fraud or mistake, rule 49(8) provides that the application must be served and filed within one year after the applicant first had knowledge of such voidness, fraud or mistake.\n\nThe most common type of application for rescission, however, is an application for rescission of a default judgment.\n\nIn terms of rule 49(1), a party seeking to rescind or vary a default judgment has twenty court days, from the date on which the judgment came to his knowledge, to serve and file the application for rescission. Rule 49(2) provides that an applicant is presumed to have had knowledge of the default judgment ten days after the date on which it was granted, unless the applicant proves otherwise. This sub-rule places an onus on the applicant to rebut the presumption and to prove that he has brought the application within the twenty-day period.\n\nNotice of the application must be given to all parties to the proceedings. The defendant is required to show good cause why the judgment should be rescinded; alternatively, the court must be satisfied that there is good reason to do so. The court has a discretion in this regard.\n\nThe application may be made by any party, or any person affected thereby. The applicant is not necessarily the defendant in default. It may be, for instance, that there has been non-joinder. A person may seek to set aside the judgment because he is materially affected by it.\n\nThe rule appears to lay down two different but related grounds upon which a court may grant rescission. The first is \"upon good cause shown;\" the second is \"if it is satisfied that there is good reason to do so.\"\n\n\"Good cause\" has never been properly defined, but it incorporates both an investigation into the existence of a \"prima facie\" defence, and whether or not the defendant was in wilful default. In the cases on the previous rule, \"good cause\" was held to include\n\n\nThe first two of these requirements are set out in the new rule 49(3), which provides that the application must be supported by an affidavit setting out the reasons for the defendant's absence or default, and the grounds of the defendant's defence to the claim. It has been argued that \"the previous case law still applies in regard to this sub-rule, since 'good cause' would only be shown if the explanation was reasonable, and the defence \"bona fide\".\"\n\nThe requirement of absence of wilful default has become more problematic. Rule 49(4) deals with the situation in which a defendant wishes to rescind the judgment when he does not wish to proceed with the proceedings: that is, when he is prepared to make arrangements to satisfy the judgment. It is in these circumstances that the new sub-rule requires an applicant to show that he or she was not in wilful default and that the judgment was satisfied, or arrangements were made to satisfy the judgment, within a reasonable time after it came to his or her knowledge. \"Does this mean,\" asks Torquil Paterson,\n\nthat it is only in these circumstances that the absence of wilful default is a requirement? This matter appears still to be moot. It is submitted that the absence of wilful default applies to all applications, and that it still remains part of demonstrating \"good cause.\"\nIt is also submitted that in the circumstances of rule 49(4) the onus of demonstrating the absence of wilful default will rest on the applicant.\n\nWith regard to the previous rule, it was held that the onus of demonstrating that the applicant was in wilful default rested on the respondent: \"Whether this is still the case appears to be moot.\"\n\nGenerally, then, rescission may not be granted if the defendant\n\n\nThis means that, to show good cause, the defendant in his affidavit must explain the reasons for his absence or default and show the existence of a \"prima facie\" defence as well as satisfy the court that his default was not wilful.\n\nThe second possibility is that the applicant may show that there is \"good reason\" to rescind the judgment. The court may rescind the judgment, that is, \"if it is satisfied that there is good reason to do so.\" Paterson writes that,\n\nwhile this requirement overlaps with that of 'good cause,' it should be given an independent meaning. It is submitted that the ‘good reason’ relates to a wider discretion than that contained in good cause relating to the general equities of the situation.\n\nThe prejudice to both parties will be considered together with all the other factors set out above.\n\nAlthough \"good reason\" appears to set a lower standard than the requirements of good cause, it has been held that it does not so much lower the requirements for the applicant as extend the discretion of the magistrate. Where the applicant fails to show good cause, the magistrate may nevertheless grant rescission \"mero motu\", in the interests of justice, if exceptional circumstances warrant it.\n\nA magistrate has a discretion in the case of rescission, and is not obliged to grant it. The defendant's \"bona fides\", whether or not the default was wilful, and the existence of a \"prima facie\" defence are all taken into account in exercising that discretion, the most important aspect being that of the existence of a \"prima fade\" defence.\n\nFour different situations may arise:\n\n\nIn the High Court, the defendant, seeking rescission of a default judgment,\n\n\nIn the Magistrate's Court, rescission of a default judgment will be granted\n\n\nIt is important to note that rescission is not available in respect of provisional sentences or summary judgments.\n\nApplication proceedings, also known as motion proceedings, are based on the exchange of affidavits. The party bringing the application is known as the applicant; the party opposing the application, if any, is known as the respondent. In application proceedings, the equivalent documents to pleadings are called \"processes\"; these processes not only formulate the factual dispute but also offer the evidence in support of the factual allegations. Processes are drafted in the form of affidavits, which are written statements sworn under oath or affirmation, and may have extra documents attached as annexures, which further support the evidence adduced.\n\nIn contrast to summons proceedings, there is no distinction between the pleading stage and the trial stage in application proceedings. In essence, application procedure condenses the action process; the pleadings as well as the evidence are contained in the applications papers which go before the court. Application procedure is therefore reserved for matters in which the court can reach a decision on the documents before it, without resorting to the oral evidence of witnesses because the parties do not dispute the material facts of the case.\n\nAn application will generally consist of\n\n\nThe notice of motion must be in general accordance with Form 2(a) of the First Schedule to the Rules. This form is often referred to as the “long-form notice of motion.”\n\nIt serves to inform the court and the respondent that a specific type of application will be made on a specified date, at a specified time at a specified court, and that the legal relief mentioned therein will be requested.\n\nThe purpose of an affidavit is to record certain facts under oath, which the court will then consider in determining whether or not to grant the application.\n\nThere is no standard form prescribed for the affidavit. Its contents will vary widely, depending on Motion courtthe nature of the specific application.\n\nThere are certain basic principles which apply to all affidavits. The following information should appear in all supporting affidavits:\n\n\nThe affidavit is framed in the first person. The deponent will generally state that its contents are true.\n\nIf the applicant refers to documentary evidence in the supporting affidavit, such documents must be attached to the affidavit. Being a document containing evidence, the substantive law of evidence applies as much to an affidavit as to \"viva voce\" evidence.\n\nWhere the applicant refers in the supporting affidavit to communications by other persons, such reference must be affirmed by obtaining confirmatory affidavits from the said persons, and attaching it to the supporting affidavit. Such attachment is necessary in order to comply with the evidentiary rule against hearsay. Only admissible evidence should be contained in the affidavit.\n\nThe applicant commences proceedings by issuing a notice of motion, which serves to advise the respondent of the applicant's claim and the relief which the applicant seeks. The notice of motion is usually accompanied by a founding affidavit. Sometimes one or more supporting affidavits or relevant documentation are attached to the affidavit.\n\nIf the application is not opposed, the facts, as set out in the documents, are accepted. The only question that must be answered then is whether a case can be made for granting the requested order.\n\nThe respondent who wishes to oppose the application must deliver an opposing affidavit (or answering affidavit) in which he answers the allegations of fact contained in the founding affidavit.\n\nIf necessary, the applicant may then deliver a replying affidavit, in order to address and respond to any allegations contained in the opposing affidavit.\n\nAffidavits consist not only of the applicant's affidavit but also of the supporting affidavits of witnesses, and set out the facts of the claim, defence, and all supporting evidence. These are all in the possession of the motion court when the case appears before it. Consequently, on the date of the hearing of the application, the parties’ legal representatives argue \"on the papers\". Only in exceptional cases will oral evidence be heard.\n\nMagistrates’ Courts do not provide for a general application procedure, and only recognise specific instances in which applications may be brought. In the High Court, however, the application procedure is widely used.\n\nIn any claim, the decision to be made up front is whether to proceed by way of action or application procedure. In \"Room Hire v Jeppe Street Mansions\", it was decided that, as a general rule, the choice between the procedures depends on whether a \"bona fide\" material dispute of fact should have been anticipated by the party launching the proceedings. \n\nWhen such a dispute is anticipated, a trial action should be instituted; otherwise motion proceedings are permissible in order to avoid the delay and expense involved in trials.\n\nIt follows, from this general rule, that motion proceedings should not be instituted in respect of\n\n\nNotwithstanding the rule regarding anticipated disputes of fact, there are certain types of proceeding in which applications should always be used:\n\n\nBetween these two extremes, the party suing has the choice between an action and an application; his only limitation in regard to an application is the anticipation of a real dispute on any material question of fact.\n\nThis principle is valid only for an application for final relief (such as an application for the payment of money, or for the vindication of an article) or for a final interdict.\n\nThe party suing (the applicant) is \"dominus litis\"; he chooses the procedure to be used. It must be appreciated that it is inherently unfair on the respondent to be brought to court in an application\n\n\nAccording to the \"Room Hire\" case, a dispute of fact might arise in the following situations:\n\n\nBearing in mind the disadvantage to which the respondent is put in an application for final relief, a court is not permitted, where there are genuine disputes of fact on material issues, to decide the matter on a mere balance of probabilities, as would be done in an action. The test is more stringent: The applicant will only succeed if the facts as stated by the respondent, together with those facts in the applicant's affidavit which have been admitted by the respondent, justify the order sought. The matter is therefore decided essentially on the respondent's version.\n\nA court will not permit a respondent to defeat the applicant's application by a mere denial in general terms. In suitable cases, it will adopt a “robust, common sense approach” to disputes of fact. Where, however, the court is unable to decide the application on the papers, generally there are three avenues open to it:\n\n\nIf it appears that the applicant must reasonably have foreseen that a material dispute of fact would arise at the time the application was brought, but the applicant nevertheless proceeded by way of application, the court may dismiss the application with costs. This is perhaps the most drastic course of action open to the court.\n\nEven in such a circumstance, the court is not obliged to dismiss the application. It has a discretion to decide on one of the other steps mentioned below, and in addition to penalise the applicant with a costs order.\n\nIn terms of HCR 6(5)(g), the court may order that oral evidence be heard to decide a specific factual dispute. This procedure is applicable only where the dispute is of limited or narrow scope, not where it is extensive and complicated.\n\nIf the court is of the opinion that it is proper to hear oral evidence in terms of HCR 6(5)(g), the court may determine which persons to call as witnesses; it may also determine the issues in respect of which oral evidence must be presented. Apart from calling the deponents of the affidavits to give oral evidence, the court may also order that any other person be called as a witness.\n\nIf the factual dispute is extensive or complicated, the court may refer the matter to trial. The result is that the application is converted into a trial action, where oral evidence may be led.\n\nThe court may give such direction regarding the pleadings and the determination of the issues as it deems proper. For example, the court may order that the notice of motion serve as a summons, and that other pleadings be delivered. The matter will proceed as if it had been started as an action.\n\nThe affidavits here will play no role in the ultimate decision, other than perhaps with regard to credibility. The customary order made when referring an application to trial would typically read as follows:\n\n\nIt is a fundamental policy that the respondent ought to be afforded the opportunity of placing his version before the court, and of being heard. Therefore, unless there are exceptional circumstances, the notice of motion and the founding affidavit (together with all annexures) must be served on the respondent in the manner provided for in the Rules.\n\nThere are exceptions to this general rule.\n\nRule 6(1) refers to petitions; reference thereto is also to be found in legislation.\n\nPetitions were abolished by the Petition Proceedings Replacement Act. For practical purposes they exist only as the form used for applications in the Supreme Court of Appeal.\n\nPetitions are written in the third person: “Your petitioner respectfully submits that he...”\n\nAn \"ex parte\" or unilateral application is an application in which the applicant is the only party before the court. As a rule, in fact, when only one person is before the court as a litigant, the application procedure is \"always\" appropriate, as the possibility of a dispute of fact does not exist.\n\nThe \"ex parte\" application may be used in the following cases:\n\n\nIn accordance with the \"audi alteram partem\" principle, and as a general rule, justice and fairness demand that the court should not make an order against any person unless the affected person has received proper notice of the legal relief sought. The \"ex parte\" application represents a departure from this rule. The courts will examine such an application very carefully, that the interests of affected persons may be properly safeguarded.\n\nThere are two important principles for ensuring fairness to the party against whom relief is sought in terms of an \"ex parte\" application:\n\n\nInterlocutory applications, and other applications incidental to pending proceedings, are brought on notice (notice here does not mean \"notice of motion\"), usually supported by an affidavit.\n\nService of such an application need not be effected by the sheriff; it is usually effected by the attorney's messenger.\n\nIn practice, Form 2 is adapted for this purpose by reflecting on it both the applicant and the respondent, and by addressing it to both the Registrar and the respondent.\n\nIn certain circumstances, a party may need to obtain relief on an urgent basis; proper compliance with the rules and time limits may not be possible. Consequently, HCR 6(12) provides that the court may dispense with the forms and service provided for in the rules, and may dispose of the matter at such a time and place, and in such manner and in accordance with such procedure (which shall, as far as practicable, be in terms of the rules), as it deems fit.\n\nIt is important to note that, when a matter is urgent, it will always be appropriate to proceed by way of application, at least to obtain temporary relief—even though a dispute of fact is anticipated.\n\n\"Luna Meubel v Makin\" is the leading case on the question of how and when an urgent application may be brought. The court highlighted the requirement in HCR 6(12)(a) that the procedure for an urgent application must, as far as practicable, comply with the rules.\n\nThe court found that HCR 6(12) does not permit practitioners to select any day of the week, or any time of the day (or night), to demand a hearing. Urgency involves\n\n\nThe court held that the following factors, listed in ascending order of urgency, must be borne in mind:\n\n\nThe court explained that practitioners should carefully analyse the facts of each case to determine, for the purposes of setting the case down for hearing, whether a greater or lesser degree of relaxation of the rules is required. The degree of relaxation should not be greater than the exigency of the case demands; it must be commensurate therewith. The applicant must make out a case in the founding affidavit to justify the particular extent of the departure from the norm.\n\nNotwithstanding a factual dispute, foreseen or foreseeable, the situation may demand that the applicant be afforded urgent relief in the face of a factual dispute.\n\nFor example, an applicant whose life is threatened may approach a court for an interim interdict restraining the respondent from assaulting him, despite the fact that the applicant foresees that the respondent in an answering affidavit will deny having made the threat.\n\nThe relief sought in such a case is not final, but merely interim. It may be corrected or reversed at a later stage, and is invariably granted \"pendente lite\". For this reason, the test is not as stringent as when final relief is sought; in fact, it favours the applicant.\n\nThere are other examples of applications which do not claim final relief, such as applications for rescission and provisional sentence.\n\nIt is not, then, for every case in which a factual dispute arises that motion proceedings are excluded.\n\nAlthough the general rule requires that notice of an application be given to the respondent, there may be exceptional circumstances where notice will thwart the object of the application.\n\nAn applicant may contend, for example, that the respondent is in wrongful possession of the applicant's motor vehicle, and has threatened to destroy it in the event of the applicant's proceeding to court for its recovery. In such a case, the applicant would contend that, having received notice of the application, the respondent might very well destroy or dispose of the vehicle without a trace, prior to the applicant's obtaining an order from the court for the return of the vehicle. The applicant will accordingly seek an order on an interim basis, directing that, pending the determination of the application, the vehicle be preserved.\n\nThere are instances, then, where the circumstances may justify the court in dispensing with service.\n\nIf it is suspected that a person may be of unsound mind, and as such incapable of managing his own affairs, proceedings may be instituted for a declaration by the court to that effect, and for the appointment of curators to his person and property (curator \"personae\"). The court may also on application declare a person to be a prodigal, and appoint a curator to his estate (curator \"bonis\").\n\nThere are three main classes or categories of persons who must be assisted by curators \"ad litem\" in actions or proceedings brought by or against them:\n\n\nProceedings are initiated by application to court by any person (a relative, for example, or a guardian; in certain circumstances, a friend) who has \"locus standi\" and an interest in the matter. The State may bring an application for reimbursement of future expenses incurred in the maintenance of a person who is detained in a public asylum.\n\nIf a person is incapable of managing his own affairs, and the estimated value of his property does not exceed R100,000, a judge may, on application, appoint a curator \"bonis\".\n\nThe Administration of Estates Act lays down that the Master may, by notice published in the Gazette, call upon the relatives of the person concerned to attend before him for the purpose of recommending the appointment as curator of a person or any number of specified persons. The notice may be dispensed with if the value of the property does not exceed R5,000.\n\nIf proceedings are initiated under the Mental Health Act, application must be made to the provincial or local division of the Supreme Court with jurisdiction.\n\nIf the application is made under the common law, application may be made to the court in whose area of jurisdiction the patient was domiciled, at the time of his becoming mentally ill.\n\nRule 57(1) provides that any person who desires to make an application to the court for an order declaring another person (“the patient”) to be of an unsound mind, and as such incapable of managing his own affairs, and appointing a curator to the person or property of the patient, must in the first instance apply to court for the appointment of a curator \"ad litem\" to the patient.\n\nThe rule shows clearly that the appointment of such curator is aimed at a declaratory order. It is the request for this order which distinguishes the procedure from that under the common law, where the person concerned suffers from a physical disability only.\n\nAn application to court for the appointment of a curator \"ad litem\" to a patient must be brought \"ex parte\", and must set forth fully\n\n\nThe application must, as far as possible, be supported by the following:\n\n\nEven though the trial has by now run its course, the dispute is not yet resolved. There are two outstanding issues still to be decided: firstly, the question of enforcement and then that of costs. The legal representatives may still need to execute on the judgment, either by serving documents via the sheriff or by managing the logistical arrangements for payment. They must also settle the issue of the final figure of the legal costs. This involves the winning party drafting a bill of costs, which will be taxed. Only once the judgement debt and costs awarded have been settled—that is to say, paid by the losing party—can it be said that the matter is over.\n\nObtaining judgment in one's favour is not necessarily the final step in the litigation process. In many cases the party against whom the judgment is granted (the “judgment debtor”) will willingly comply with the judgment by, for example, paying an amount of money or performing a specific act in accordance with the terms of the judgment. It may happen, however, that the debtor is recalcitrant and unwilling to comply with a judgment. In such a case, it will be necessary to distinguish between a judgment in terms of which the court orders the judgment debtor to perform some act, known as a judgment \"ad factum praestandum\", and a judgment which orders the judgment debtor to pay a sum of money, known as a judgment \"ad pecuniam solvendam\" (like an order to pay damages arising out of a delict). The remedy of the creditor is to follow a process known as “execution,” which is set out in specific rules of the High Court and Magistrate's Court. Such procedures provide a mechanism by which court orders may be enforced, and ensure the effectiveness and integrity of the process of judicial decision-making.\n\nIn general terms, the process of execution entails the attachment and sale by public auction, by the sheriff of the court, of the property of the judgment debtor in order to realise money and thereby satisfy a money judgment. The property may be moveable, immovable or incorporeal. This procedure amounts to an individual debt-collecting (execution) procedure, since it can operate effectively only where the debtor has sufficient assets to meet the amount of the judgment debt. If the debtor cannot pay the debt and has no executable assets, the debtor is technically insolvent. In such an instance, creditors will have to revert to other debt-collecting devices, such as an application for the sequestration of the estate of the debtor, in the case of a natural person (as provided by the Insolvency Act), or an application for the liquidation or winding-up of the judgment debtor, in the case of a juristic person (as provided by the Companies Act or the Close Corporation Act).\n\nThe following requirements must be complied with before it may be said that execution has been levied:\n\n\nAn attachment of property is subject to and qualified by the recent Constitutional Court decision in \"Jaftha v Schoeman\", which holds that the attachment process in the Magistrate's Court, specifically section 66, is unconstitutional in so far as it does not provide for judicial supervision over the attachment of immovable property.\n\nIn particular, the Constitutional Court found that any legal process or measure which removes from persons their pre-existing access to adequate housing is unconstitutional, because it limits unjustifiably the right to housing as defined in section 26(1) of the Constitution.\n\nIn order to overcome the problem, the Constitutional Court proposes a remedy based on judicial oversight of the execution process: namely, that a magistrate must carefully consider the facts of each case in order to determine (before a writ of attachment in respect to immovable property is issued in terms of section 66) whether the execution will be reasonable and justifiable in the circumstances.\n\nIn later cases, the effect of the \"Jaftha\" decision was considered with regard to execution following default judgment in terms of HCR 31(5), as well as execution of immovable property in the High Court in terms of HCR 45. With regard to HCR 31(5), the SCA held that the Registrar may continue to grant default judgment declaring specially hypothecated immovable property executable in cases where such judgment is applied for based on a debt flowing from the mortgage bond over the property.\n\nAlthough a full bench of the WLD has ruled that the \"Jaftha\" case would affect HCR 45(1), and that judicial supervision of this procedure had to be read into this rule, the SCA in \"Standard Bank v Saunderson\" found it unnecessary to do so.\n\nThese decisions will influence future development of the execution process relating to residential property. The procedures described below must be read with the Constitutional Court's remedy in mind.\n\nIt is important to bear in mind that, where the formalities set out in the HCR and MCR are not complied with, ultimately the sale in execution may be void.\n\nThe primary principle in execution is that it can be carried out only once judgment is granted, and then only by means of the issue of a warrant of execution. Generally execution takes place first against the defendant's movables, and thereafter against any immovable property.\n\nAs a general rule, the judgment creditor is entitled to as much of the property of the judgment debtor as satisfies the judgment, plus costs. The property attached may be either movable property, immovable property or incorporeal property, although the mode of attachment of each is different.\n\nExecution will take place first against the debtor's movables, and only thereafter against any immovable property. Therefore, where a writ against the movables of the judgment debtor is issued and served, and insufficient attachable movables are found, the writ must be re-issued against the debtor's immovable property.\n\nImmovable property may, however, be declared to be specifically executable at the time of judgment where there is a prayer to that effect. In such a case, the immovable property may be attached in the first instance without the necessity of attempting first to execute against moveable property. This often occurs in the context of provisional-sentence proceedings.\n\nThe property must belong to the judgment debtor. In the context of movable and immovable property, this means that ownership in the property must vest in the debtor. Therefore, even in circumstances where property has been sold by the debtor to a third party, but ownership has not yet been transferred, because delivery has not yet taken place, the property will still be subject to attachment.\n\nWhere the ownership in the movable or immovable property vests in the debtor, but a third party has a real right in respect of that property, such as a pledge (in the case of movable property) or a mortgage (in the case of immovable property), as a general rule that property may nevertheless be attached and sold in execution, subject to certain conditions. The third party, however, will have a preferential right to the proceeds.\n\nIncorporeal property, whether movable or immovable, may also be attached. Such property may take the form of a lease, a bill of exchange, a promissory note, a bond or other security for the payment of money. It may also take the form of an interest in a partnership, shares in a company, or a member's interest in a close corporation.\n\nAny debts which are owed or accruing from a third person to the judgment debtor may be attached and executed upon by way of a garnishee order. In terms of such an order, the third person, known as the “garnishee,” will be ordered to pay the debt, or part thereof, to the judgment creditor, rather than to the judgment debtor.\n\nA specific procedure is laid down for obtaining execution in this manner. Money or bank notes, as a form of moveable property, may also be seized.\n\nCertain property belonging to the judgment debtor may not be attached and sold in execution. Section 39 of the Supreme Court Act, and section 67 of the Magistrates' Courts Act, which are framed in identical terms, provide that the following items are exempt from attachment and execution:\n\n\nThe limit set by the minister is R2,000. The provisos to section 39 of the SCA, and section 67 of the Magistrates' Courts Act, state that the court may, in exceptional circumstances, and on such conditions as it may determine, increase this amount at its discretion.\n\nThere are certain other limitations. Section 3 of the State Liability Act provides that no execution, attachment or like process shall be issued against a State defendant or respondent in any such action or proceedings, or against any property of the State, but the amount, if any, which may be required to satisfy any judgment or order given or made against the nominal defendant or respondent in any such action or proceedings may be paid out of the National Revenue Fund.\n\nSection 2 of the Statutory Pensions Protection Act provides that no pension, right to a pension or any contributions made by any person towards a pension, shall be liable to be attached or subjected to any form of execution under a judgment of a court. On the other hand, section 26(4) of the Maintenance Act provides (notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law) that any pension, annuity, gratuity or compassionate allowance or other similar benefit shall be liable to be attached or subjected to execution under any warrant of execution.\n\nA limitation also exists in terms of the gratuity or benefit paid under the Occupational Diseases and Mines and Works Act, and movable or immovable property purchased with such gratuity or benefit.\n\nThe first step in the procedure for attachment and execution is the valid issue of a document known in the practice of the High Court as a “writ of execution,” and in the Magistrate's Court as a “warrant of execution.” Although the terminology is different, the purpose of the documents is essentially the same.\n\nA writ or warrant of execution is issued by the registrar of the High Court or the clerk of the Magistrate's Court. It instructs the sheriff of the court to attach and sell, by public sale, so much of the judgment debtor's property as is necessary to satisfy the judgment debt, plus the costs of the execution process. Thereafter, it is handed to the sheriff to execute.\n\nA writ or warrant may be issued only after judgment. It is therefore a prerequisite for the issue of a writ or warrant that there be a judgment against the debtor.\n\nIn the High Court, there does not appear to be any rule prescribing when, after judgment, a writ may be issued. It would also appear that there is no prerequisite at common law that the creditor should wait a reasonable time after judgment before issuing a writ so as to give the debtor an opportunity to satisfy the judgment.\n\nIn the Magistrate's Court, the only time requirement appears in MCR 36(7), which provides that a warrant of execution shall not be given before the day following that on which the judgment is given without leave of the court applied for at the time of granting the judgment.\n\nIn the High Court, the form of the writ of execution differs, depending on whether it pertains to movable property or to immovable property:\n\n\nMCR 36(1) provides that the process for the execution of any judgment for ejectment, the delivery of property (movable or immovable), or the payment of money, shall be by warrant issued and signed by the clerk of the court and addressed to the sheriff. Three different forms of warrant are provided for in Annexure 1. The form of the warrant depends on the type of judgment granted:\n\n\nMCR 41(1)(a) provides that, upon receipt of the warrant, the sheriff must proceed to the home or place of employment of the debtor, and request satisfaction of the writ.\n\nWith regard to the attachment of the property, certain specific provisions of the rules of the Magistrates' Courts bear mention:\n\n\nAfter attachment of the items, the sheriff must notify the execution creditor of such attachment by sending the return and the inventory to the execution creditor or his attorney. As a general rule, the sheriff must leave the movable property, other than money, specie or documents, on the premises and in the possession of the execution debtor. The property may be removed in two circumstances:\n\n\nIn the Magistrate's Court, there is no equivalent to HCR 45(5), which sets out the mechanism by which property attached and inventoried may be left on the premises if the execution debtor, together with some person of sufficient means acting as a surety, undertakes that such property will be produced on the day appointed for the sale. In the Magistrate's Court, the general rule is that property is left on the premises until the sheriff receives an instruction to remove it.\n\nAn attachment over movables is valid for four months, calculated from the date of attachment.\n\nThe execution creditor's attorney must obtain a date for sale from the sheriff. The date of the sale must be at least fifteen days after the attachment. The property must be sold at or near the place where it was attached, or to which it has been removed. The property will then be sold by the sheriff through public auction, or with the approval of the magistrate, by an auctioneer or other person so appointed by the sheriff.\n\nThereafter, it is the responsibility of the creditor, after consultation with the sheriff, to prepare a notice of sale, and to send two copies thereof to the sheriff, so that one copy may be affixed to the notice board or door of the court, and the other copy near the place where the sale is to take place. This must be done ten days before the sale.\n\nIf the sheriff is of the opinion that the items are worth more than R3,000, the sheriff will require the creditor to publish the notice of sale in a local newspaper. The advertisement must be published at least ten days prior to the sale. A copy of the edition of the paper wherein the advertisement is published must be furnished to the sheriff at least one day prior to the sale.\n\nOn completion of the sale, the sheriff must attach to the return a “vendue roll,” showing details of the property sold, the prices realised, the names and addresses of the purchasers (where known), and an account of the distribution of the proceeds.\n\nIn the case of immovable property, the warrant of execution must be delivered to the sheriff of the district in which the immovable property is situated. The sheriff effects the attachment by serving the notice of attachment and the warrant of execution on\n\n\nUnlike the provision in the HCR, which requires service by registered letter addressed to the intended recipient, the MCR require service in the same manner as a summons. The sheriff will then send the original warrant of execution, together with the return of service, to the creditor's attorney.\n\nAfter the attachment, the sheriff must ascertain and record whether the said property is subject to any claim preferent to that of the creditor. If that is the case, the sheriff must notify the creditor of the existence of any such claim. Having received such notification, the creditor is obliged, in terms of section 66(2) of the Magistrates' Courts Act, to cause a notice of the intended sale in execution to be served personally upon the preferent creditor; alternatively, the execution creditor must make application to the Magistrate's Court of the district in which the property is situated in order to obtain a direction as to what steps must be taken to bring the intended sale to the notice of the preferent creditor.\n\nSection 66(2) also provides that no immovable property subject to any preferent claim shall be sold in execution unless\n\n\nThe sheriff will then set a day and a place for the sale of the property. The date of the sale must be at least a month after the service of the notice of attachment. The sale must take place in front of the courthouse in the district in which the attached property is situated, or at such place as the magistrate may determine.\n\nThe sale must be by public auction without reserve. The property must, subject to the provisions of section 66(2) of the Magistrates' Courts Act, and to the other conditions of sale, be sold to the highest bidder.\n\nTherefore, unlike the position in the High Court, no reserve price may be stipulated, as preferent creditors are protected by the provisions of section 66(2).\n\nIt is not necessary for the property to be sold by the sheriff. The execution creditor, or any person having an interest in the proper realisation of the property, may by notice to the sheriff, within fifteen days after attachment, and subject to certain conditions, require that such property be sold by an auctioneer in the ordinary course of business, and may in such notice nominate the auctioneer to be employed.\n\nThereafter, it is the responsibility of the execution creditor to prepare a notice of sale and the conditions of sale. Such a notice of sale must contain\n\n\nThereafter the execution creditor must publish the notice of sale in a newspaper circulating in the district in which the property is situated, as well as in the \"Government Gazette\" not less than five days, and not more than fifteen days, before the date of sale. A photocopy of each of the published notices must be furnished to the sheriff as proof of publication.\n\nAt least ten days prior to the sale, the sheriff must\n\n\nAt least twenty days prior to the sale, the execution creditor prepares the conditions of sale, which must include a condition for payment by the purchaser of any interest due to a preferent creditor from the sale of the property to the date of transfer. The execution creditor will then deliver two copies of the conditions of sale to the sheriff, and one copy to each person entitled to notice of the sale. Any interested party may then apply for a modification of such conditions of sale.\n\nAfter the sale, the sheriff prepares a plan of distribution of the proceeds of the sale. After the property is transferred, and the plan of distribution of the proceeds has lain open for inspection, the necessary pay-outs are made to the creditors in accordance with the plan of distribution.\n\nAn attachment in respect of immovables is valid for one year from the date of attachment.\n\nIt may happen that a third party, other than a judgment debtor, lays claim to property seized by the sheriff. As has already been explained, the sheriff will proceed with the attachment notwithstanding the fact that a third-party claimant alleges ownership of the property. In such an event, an interpleader may be the most appropriate course of action.\n\nIn \"Bernstein v Visser\", the court explained that an interpleader is a form of procedure available to a person who is in custody of property to which the custodian lays no claim by right, but to which two or more other persons lay claim.\n\nThe custodian may, in terms of an interpleader, oblige any two persons laying claim to the property to fight out their claims among themselves, without putting the custodian to the expense and trouble of an action or actions.\n\nAlthough not unique to the execution process, the interpleader occurs most frequently in this context because it provides an obvious mechanism by which the sheriff as custodian, who has seized or is about to seize property as part of the execution process, is spared the risk of becoming involved in conflicting claims which may potentially arise in the exercise of his statutory duty.\n\nWhen considering the relevant rules of the High Court, and the appropriate section and rules of the Magistrate's Court, one should not lose sight of the fact that interpleader proceedings may occur in a context other than execution.\n\nIn the High Court, interpleader proceedings are dealt with in terms of HCR 58, and in the Magistrate's Court in terms of section 69 of the Magistrates' Courts Act, read with MCR 39 and 44. Although the form of process is slightly different, the procedure is similar.\n\nWhere a third-party claimant lays claim to property attached or about to be attached by the sheriff, or to any proceeds of property so attached and sold in execution, the sheriff must give notice of such claim to the execution creditor.\n\nThe execution creditor has ten days after the receipt of the notice in which to admit the claim, in which event the execution creditor will not be liable for any costs, fees or expenses afterwards incurred, and the sheriff may withdraw from possession of the property concerned. Where the execution creditor does not admit the claim, the sheriff must sue out an interpleader summons in terms of section 69 of the Magistrates' Courts Act, read with MCR 44.\n\nSection 69 of the Magistrates' Courts Act makes provision for interpleader proceedings in two different circumstances. Two different forms for interpleader summons are provided for in Annexure 1 to the rules of the Magistrate's Court, in order to provide for each circumstance:\n\n\nA similar structure, providing for a specific interpleader process, and for a general interpleader process, emerges from MCR 44. The former, in MCR 44(2), is the most relevant for present purposes.\n\nMCR 44(2) provides that, where the third-party claimant makes a claim in respect of property attached by the sheriff, and the execution creditor has not admitted the claim within the ten-day period referred to above, the sheriff must sue out an interpleader summons in the prescribed form, calling on the third-party claimant and the execution creditor to appear on the date specified in the summons, to have the claim adjudicated upon.\n\nThe third-party claimant must, not less than ten days before the date of the hearing specified in the summons, lodge with the sheriff an affidavit in triplicate, setting forth the particulars of the claim and the grounds thereof. The sheriff will then forward a copy of the affidavit to the execution creditor, and another copy to the execution debtor.\n\nOn the date of the hearing, the parties must appear in court. The court will adjudicate the dispute between the claimants. It may\n\n\nWhere the matter is tried, the normal rules of a trial action apply. The court may make such order as to any additional expenses of execution occasioned by the claim, and for payment of costs incurred by the application or sheriff, as may be just.\n\nIf a third-party claimant fails to appear in court on the stipulated day, or fails to deliver an affidavit in the stipulated time, or within such further period as the court may allow, or appears but fails to comply with any order made by the court after an appearance, the court may make an order barring the third party from making any further claim in respect of the subject matter of the dispute.\n\nFrom a practical point of view, it is usually advisable to proceed by way of the interpleader. When in doubt, however, it might be best to proceed instead with a section 65 procedure.\n\nThe decision of \"Coetzee v Government\" declared the imprisonment provisions in section 65 of the MCA to be unconstitutional, with effect from September 22, 1995.\n\nThe Act provides for several means whereby a creditor may exact payment of his debt. The process of execution after gaining a judgment is costly and time-consuming. Because the majority of cases involve the payment of accounts for goods provided, or for services rendered, and for which the defendant has no valid defence, the Act provides in sections 55 to 60 a procedure whereby judgment may be obtained in this kind of instance without first issuing a summons and following the full summons procedure.\n\nThe Act also provides in section 65 for a procedure whereby debtors may be summonsed before the court to face an inquiry into their failure to pay the debt. Following such an inquiry, the court may issue various orders:\n\n\nPrior to the decision in \"Coetzee\", the sanction for non-compliance on the part of the debtor was imprisonment, which was described as “imprisonment for contempt of court.” Sachs J, in his judgment in \"Coetzee\", described this as a misnomer. This form of imprisonment, when it related to failure to pay or the inability to pay debts, was nothing more than a disguised extension of civil imprisonment for debt, which had been abolished by the Abolition of Civil Imprisonment Act of 1977. Didcott J commented, \"obiter\", that he could see circumstances in which imprisonment for failure to pay a debt could be defended. The decision explicitly does not impugn other provisions which do allow imprisonment for failure to pay debts of certain categories, such as maintenance orders.\n\nThe decision abolished the committal procedure of section 65 as being contrary to the right to freedom of the person. It found particularly that the procedure could not be defended as a justifiable limitation on that right, because the provisions were unreasonable on the grounds of “overbreadth.” The court held that the committal procedure was separable from the remainder of the section, and that, therefore, only references to the committal procedure were excised from the section.\n\nThe result of \"Coetzee\" is that the procedure of section 65 has had its teeth drawn. What remains is the inquiry into the financial status of the debtor and the possibility of orders being made as a result of that inquiry. A creditor will no longer be able to obtain a writ of imprisonment on failure of the debtor to attend such an inquiry. Where a debtor deliberately refuses to co-operate with the courts regarding his refusal to pay a debt, even a proper judgment debt, the creditor who finds that the normal process of execution yields no dividends will have to resort to an administration order in terms of section 74, or to full-scale sequestration.\n\nAs noted by Sachs J in \"Coetzee\", the small debtor without means will no longer be faced with imprisonment, from which he can only be rescued by family or friends. Further, creditors will no longer be able to extend credit on the basis that the debt can be exacted through fear of imprisonment. Credit should be extended only to those who are creditworthy, and to those who provide proper security.\n\nChapter VIII provides a procedure whereby a creditor may obtain judgment without the issue of a summons. If the debtor admits liability, the creditor may proceed to gain an order against the debtor.\n\nIf the creditor proceeds by way of summons, and the debtor consents to judgment, certain provisions also provide for obtaining an appropriate judgment.\n\nSection 56 provides that a registered letter of demand may be sent by the attorney acting for a creditor to a debtor who is liable for the payment of the debt (“any liquidated sum of money due”) claimed in the letter.\n\nSection 56 further provides that, should the debtor pay the debt upon receipt of the letter, the creditor shall be entitled to recover the fees and costs prescribed in the rules for a registered letter of demand, provided that the amount of such fees and costs was stated in the letter of demand. No specific format is prescribed for the letter of demand; this is unlike the position in regard to summons.\n\nIn terms of section 56, the letter of demand must be sent by registered post by an attorney to the debtor. In terms of rule 4B, the letter must contain particulars of the nature and amount of the claim.\n\nSection 57 provides\n\n\nIn contrast, section 58 provides for an unconditional consent to judgment, coupled with a consent to an order of court for the payment of the debt in instalments.\n\nBoth\n\n\nthe defendant may take the steps set out above after he has been summonsed, or after he has received a letter of demand in terms of section 56.\n\nWhere there has been judgment for the payment of a sum of money, and the judgment debtor has made a written offer to pay in instalments, and where such offer is accepted by the judgment creditor or his attorney, the judgment creditor may apply to the clerk of the court for an order that the debtor pay such amount in accordance with the offer. Such an order is deemed to be an order for the purpose of launching the following procedures:\n\nThe debtor may be summoned to appear before the court if the judgment or order has not been complied with for a period of ten days from\n\n\nThe notice calling upon the debtor to appear before the courting chambers must be in a printed form. It must indicate the date of judgment or order, as well as the amount of the judgment and the balance of the capital, interest, costs and collection fees which the defendant has undertaken to pay in terms of section 57(1)(c), and which remains due on the date of issue or reissue of the notice.\n\nThis notice is supported by an affidavit (or affirmation) by the judgment creditor or a certificate by his attorney in which the following averments are made:\n\n\nWhen the original judgment or order for payment of the judgment debt, referred to in section 65A(1), has been given in any court other than the court of the district in which the inquiry is held, the clerk of the court may not issue the notice calling on the debtor to appear before the court until a certified copy of the judgment has been lodged with him.\n\nAny alteration in the notice to the debtor must be initialed by the judgment creditor or his attorney, and by the clerk of the court before issue or reissue.\n\nThe clerk may not issue the section 65A notice until it is shown, from the minutes of the proceedings, that the debtor was present or represented when judgment was given, or a warrant of execution was served on the debtor personally—unless the judgment creditor or his attorney demonstrates that the debtor has been notified by registered letter of the terms of the judgment or of the expiry of the period of suspension ordered under section 48(e), and a period of ten days has elapsed since the posting of the letter.\n\nA new section 65A(6) provides that, where the court is satisfied that the debtor has knowledge of the notice in section 65A(1), and has failed to appear, or where the debtor fails to appear on a postponement date, or where he has failed to remain in attendance, the court may issue a warrant of arrest to bring the debtor before a competent court to conduct an enquiry in terms of section 65A(1).\n\nSection 65A(8) provides that a person so arrested should, as soon as reasonably possible, be brought before the court within the district which that person was arrested. He may be detained at a police station pending the court appearance.\n\nInstead of arresting the debtor (but only if the creditor consents), the sheriff may hand the debtor a notice calling upon him to attend court.\n\nA willful refusal or failure to appear in terms of a notice in terms of section 65A(1) or (8) constitutes an offence, making the debtor liable to a fine or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding three months. Section65A(10) provides details of the procedure to be followed when the court inquires into the failure of a debtor to attend.\n\nSection 65A makes provision throughout for the summonsing of a juristic person, represented by a director or officer.\n\nWhen the debtor appears before the court \"in camera\" on the return day mentioned in the notice, he gives evidence under oath or affirmation as to his financial position.\n\nThe court permits examination or cross-examination of the judgment debtor in relation to all matters affecting his financial position and his ability to pay the judgment debt and costs, and also in relation to his failure to do so.\n\nThe court hears such further evidence as may be adduced (orally or by affidavit, or in such other manner as the court may deem just), and as is material to the determination of the judgment debtor's financial position, his ability to pay the judgment debt and his failure to do so. Witnesses may be summoned for the purpose of giving such evidence.\n\nThe Act prescribes the factors which the court must take into consideration in determining the ability of the debtor to pay the debt due. These factors are\n\n\nThe court may, in its discretion, refuse to take account of periodical payments that a judgment debtor has undertaken to make in terms of instalment sale transactions for the purchase of goods not exempted from attachment, or goods which, in the opinion of the court, cannot be regarded as household requirements.\n\nIf, at the hearing, the court is satisfied that the judgment debtor has movable or immovable property which may be attached and sold in order to satisfy the judgment debt, or part of it, the court may\n\n\nIf it appears to the court that there is a debt due to the judgment debtor which may be attached in terms of section 72, the court may authorise the attachment of that debt in terms of that section.\n\nIf it is apparent from the evidence that, after receipt of the notice to appear in court in terms of section 65A(1), the judgment debtor made a written offer to pay the judgment debt in instalments or otherwise, or that the debtor is able to pay the debt in reasonable instalments, the court may order him to pay the judgment debt and costs in specified instalments, and may also authorise the issuing of an emoluments attachment order.\n\nThe further hearing of the matter is thereupon postponed. The proceedings may again be placed on the roll by the judgment creditor or his attorney by notice delivered or posted at least ten days before the day appointed in such notice for the hearing.\n\nThe court may in any event postpone the proceedings at any time in the presence of the judgment debtor or, in the case of a juristic person, in the presence of the director or officer of the debtor, to such date as the court may determine.\n\nWhen postponing the proceedings, the court informs the judgment debtor or the director or officer in question of the provisions of section 65E(1)(c), and may order the judgment debtor, etc., to produce such documents as the court may specify at the hearing on the date determined by the court. The court may, in addition, stipulate such conditions as it deems fit.\n\nAs far as the costs of the appearance at the hearing in chambers are concerned, the rule applies that the judgment debtor will be ordered to pay the costs unless it appears at the hearing that the debtor has made an offer to settle the judgment debt in instalments that the court considers reasonable, or unless it appears that he has notified the judgment creditor that he was not able to make an offer, and the court finds this to be true. If it emerges that the creditor refused the offer, the court may order the judgment creditor to pay those costs, including the loss of wages suffered by the debtor through having to appear in court in connection with the proceedings.\n\nThe court may suspend, amend or rescind its order. If the debtor or his representative was not present in court at the time the order was made, the judgment creditor or his attorney is obliged to advise him forthwith, by registered post, of the terms of the order and of the consequences of his failure to satisfy it.\n\nThe court may postpone the hearing in terms of section 65A(1) if the judgment debtor lodges with the court an application for an administration order prior to or at the time of the hearing.\n\nIf a debtor has not lodged an application for an administration order with the court before or at the time of the hearing of the section 65 proceedings, and it appears at the hearing that the judgment debtor has other debts also, the court considers whether all of the judgment debtor's debts should be treated collectively. If the court is of the opinion that they should be so treated, it may, with a view to granting the administration order, postpone further hearing of the proceedings to a date determined by the court, and order the judgment debtor\n\n\nIf it appears that the judgment debtor's total debts do not exceed R50,000, the court may grant the administration order in respect of his estate, and stay further proceedings, but may grant the judgment creditor the costs already incurred in connection with such proceedings.\n\nA distinction must be drawn between a garnishee order and an emoluments attachment order:\n\n\nAn emoluments-attachment order will only be granted if\n\n\nWhen the judgment creditor issues an emoluments attachment order out of any court other than the one in which the judgment was obtained, a certified copy of the judgment against the debtor must accompany the affidavit.\n\nIf the court authorises the issuing of an emoluments-attachment order in terms of section 65J(1), the order must be issued in the form prescribed by the rules, and must contain sufficient information, including the identity number, work number or date of birth of the judgment debtor, to enable the garnishee to identify the judgment debtor.\n\nThe emoluments-attachment order must be signed by the judgment creditor or his attorney, and by the clerk of the court, and served on the garnishee (the employer) by the sheriff in the manner prescribed.\n\nThe order is executed against the garnishee as if it were a court judgment, subject to the right of the garnishee and the debtor, or any other interested party, to dispute the existence or validity of the order or the correctness of the balance claimed.\n\nThe deductions are made monthly, commencing at the end of the month following that in which the emoluments attachment order was served upon the garnishee.\n\nThe garnishee is entitled to commission of up to five per cent of all amounts paid over by him in terms of the order. This commission is deducted from the amount paid to the creditor.\n\nIf it is shown that the debtor, after satisfaction of the order, will not have sufficient means for his own and his dependants’ maintenance, the court will rescind the order or amend it in such a way as to affect only the balance of the debtor's emoluments over and above such sufficient means.\n\nThe court may in any event, on good cause shown, suspend or amend or rescind the emoluments attachment order on such conditions as it may deem just.\n\nShould the debtor leave the service of the garnishee before the debt has been paid in full, he must forthwith advise the creditor of the name and address of his new employer. The creditor may cause a certified copy of the order to be served on the new employer, together with a certificate specifying the balance outstanding on account of the debt. The new employer is thereupon bound by the order, subject to his right to dispute the existence or validity of the order and the correctness of the balance claimed.\n\nWhenever any debtor to whom an emoluments order relates leaves the service of the garnishee before the debt has been paid in full, and becomes self-employed or is employed by someone else, he is, pending the service of the emoluments order upon his new employer, again obliged to comply with the order made by the court in terms of section 65J(1)(a) or (b), which provides in essence that he must pay the debt and costs in specific instalments as set out in the order.\n\nSection 65M provides that, where judgment for the payment of money has been given by a division of the High Court, the judgment creditor may file with the clerk of the court a certified copy of that judgment and an affidavit specifying the amount still owing and how it has been arrived at.\n\nThe judgment then has all the effects of a judgment of that Magistrate's Court, even though the amount of the judgment may exceed the jurisdiction of the court. The procedure generally followed for the collection of debts in the Magistrates’ Courts is thereafter followed in collecting that amount.\n\nIn terms of section 65M, the debtor is entitled to dispute the correctness of the amount specified in the affidavit.\n\nSection 65A(1) provides that, where a judgment debtor is a juristic person, either a director or an officer of the juristic person may be called upon as a representative of the juristic person, \"in his personal capacity\", to appear before the court to show cause why he should not be ordered to pay the judgment debt in instalments.\n\nIt should be noted that, wherever the legislation alludes to a “judgment debtor,” it refers also to the director or officer of the juristic person. For all practical purposes, the juristic person is placed in the same position with regard to section 65 proceedings as a debtor who is a natural person.\n\nThe court may, at the request of the debtor, at any stage of the proceedings, if the director or officer ceases to be a director or officer of the juristic person, or absconds, replace the director or officer with any other person who at the time of the replacement is a director or officer of the juristic person; the proceedings then continue as if there has been no replacement.\n\nIn terms of section 74 of the MCA, an application for an administration order is described as a modified form of insolvency proceedings, and provides for debt relief for debtors whose debts amount to less than R50,000.\n\nIn principle the procedure provides for a rescheduling of a debtor's debt without sequestrating the debtor's estate.\n\nIn terms of this order, a court will assist the debtor by appointing an administrator to take control of the debtor's financial affairs, and to manage the payment of debts due to creditors.\n\nIn terms of the order, the debtor has an obligation to make regular payments to the administrator. After deducting necessary expenses and a specified remuneration determined by tariff, the administrator will in turn make a regular distribution in weekly or monthly instalments, or otherwise out of such received payments to all creditors.\n\nIn terms of section 74(1)(a), where a debtor possesses a regular income, and where the burden of debt is reasonably manageable, the debtor may obtain an administration order from the court of the district in which he resides, carries on business or is employed, in the following circumstances:\n\n\nAdditionally, in terms of section 65I, an administration order may be granted against a debtor who applied for such an order during a section 65 \"in camera\" inquiry into the debtor's financial position. The application for an administration order enjoys preference, so the court will suspend the section 65 \"in camera\" hearing until the application for an administration order has been disposed of.\n\nThe procedure for applying for an administration order is based on an application, together with a prescribed statement of affairs, in which the debtor affirms on oath that the names of the creditors and the amounts owed to them, and all other statements or declarations made in the statement, are true.\n\nThe application is lodged with the clerk and delivered personally, or by registered post, to the creditors at least three calendar days before the hearing.\n\nThe true basis for the application is that the debtor is unable to pay his debts as they become due.\n\nThe clerk must, in accordance with the Act, assist an illiterate debtor in preparing the application. In practice, it is usual for an attorney to assist the debtor in preparing the application.\n\nThe application is heard before a magistrate in a section 65 court, and in the presence of the debtor or an appointed legal representative, as well as the creditors and their respective legal representatives.\n\nAll the debts listed in the statement of affairs are deemed to be proved, subject to any amendments the court may make, except where a creditor objects to a listed debt, or the court rejects or requires the debt to be substantiated by evidence.\n\nSimilarly, when the debtor objects to a creditor's claim, the court will require the creditor to prove the claim. The court, or any creditor or legal representative, may question the debtor with regard to\n\n\nThe content of an administration order takes a prescribed form. It must set out\n\n\nThe order must specifically state a weekly or monthly amount to be paid over to the administrator by the debtor. This amount is calculated in terms of section 74C(2) by taking into account the difference between the future income of the debtor and certain prescribed “necessary expenses.”\n\nUnless the court or the Act provides otherwise, the cost of the application in terms of section 74(1) becomes a first claim against the moneys controlled by the administrator.\n\n\"In futuro\" debts—that is to say, debts which become due and payable in the future, including mortgage bonds and assets subject to credit agreements—are excluded from the administration order. This means that the court will exclude a certain amount of money from the weekly or monthly payments made to the administrator for the purpose of allowing the debtor to make periodical payments in terms of a credit instalment sale agreement or existing maintenance or mortgage-bond obligations.\n\nWhere the administration order provides for the payment of instalments out of future income, the court shall authorise the issue of an emoluments or garnishee attachment order to facilitate payments by the debtor.\n\nThe term “legal costs” refers to the costs that are payable in respect of the fees of any legal practitioner who has acted on behalf of a party, and any expenses incurred in respect of such items as telephone calls, faxes, photocopies or payments to the sheriff of the court for service of a document.\n\nThese costs are payable by a client to his attorney\n\n\nEach party is responsible to its own attorney for payment of the attorney's fees, and for payment of monies disbursed by the attorney on behalf of the client, including the fees of any advocate who may have been briefed in the matter—irrespective of whether the client won or lost the case.\n\nIn civil matters, each party usually claims an order for recovery from the other party of the costs paid to his own attorney. Therefore, in almost every civil matter, the court is required, when granting judgment, to consider\n\n\nAs a result of the Contingency Fees Act, it is now possible for attorneys to charge on a contingency basis. The attorney and client may agree that the attorney will charge the client only if he succeeds in the case. If the client loses, he is not charged for fees by his own attorney. Owing to the risk involved, the Act allows the attorney to charge a larger amount than he would be entitled to charge if the matter were conducted on a normal basis.\n\nIn terms of section 83(6) and (7) of the Attorney's Act, a practising attorney may not share his professional fees with anyone other than another practising attorney. The allowance to the other attorney may not, directly or indirectly, exceed a third of the fees charged. An unqualified person may not receive remuneration from a practitioner for work done where he is not permitted by law to carry out such work.\n\nThe court which hears a matter has a wide discretion as to costs, but it is expected that the court will exercise this discretion in accordance with well-established principles.\n\nThe most important of these principles is that, where a party has been substantially successful in bringing or defending a claim, that party is generally entitled to have a costs order made in his favour against the party who was unsuccessful. This principle is often expressed by the saying that “the costs follow the outcome of the case.” The result of such an order is that the losing party will have to pay a substantial portion of the costs incurred by the winning party, along with his or her own costs.\n\nOther principles which the civil courts frequently apply, in conjunction with this main principle, are\n\n\nA party may, in exceptional circumstances, be ordered to pay his counterparty's cost. Such circumstances include fraud, dishonesty, reckless, malicious or frivolous motives and grave misconduct.\n\nIt is clear from the principles above that equity is an important consideration.\n\nIn recent years, the Constitutional Court, the Land Claims Court and the Labour Courts have adopted a new principle: that persons should not be deterred from enforcing their rights because they fear that they will have to pay their opponent's costs, on top of their own, if they do not succeed.\n\nIn \"Hlatshwayo v Hein\", the Land Claims Court held that is does not see itself as being bound to follow the usual approach of the superior courts in awarding costs. It will give due weight to the constitutional obligation to promote the fundamental right of access to the courts in such a way that legitimate litigants will not be deterred, for fear of an adverse costs order, from approaching the court to have disputes settled.\n\nIn the High Courts and the Magistrates’ Courts, the principle that the loser pays the winner's costs is still applied in almost all cases.\n\nIn the Constitutional Court, the Land Claims Court and the Labour Courts, judgments are often given with no order as to costs, or with an order that each party should pay its own costs.\n\nRule 41(1) of the Divorce Courts provides that parties to divorce proceedings in these courts should pay their own costs, unless there is good reason for the court to order otherwise.\n\nAnother well-established principle is that, because the making of an order of costs involves the exercise of a judicial discretion, a court of appeal will not readily interfere with an order of costs made by the court of first instance.\n\nIn \"Attorney-General, Eastern Cape v Blom\", it was held that the power of interference on appeal is limited to cases\n\n\nA court may also reconsider an award of costs if the question of costs, or of the particular award, was not argued before it, without the need for the principles of rescission to be applied.\n\nParty-and-party costs are those which are necessarily incurred for the purposes of litigation (charged according to the tariff set out in the Rules of Court). This does not include all costs; only those which were necessary and properly incurred in order to obtain justice and to protect the client's rights. Where a court simply makes an order of costs against one party in favour of another, this is deemed to be a party-and-party order of costs.\n\nFor example, Cameron institutes a claim against Rodney. The court eventually decides in Cameron's favour. This means that Rodney will have to pay the account of Cameron's attorney in respect of all costs that were necessary in order to obtain justice and to protect Cameron's rights. If Cameron telephoned his attorney to inquire about the progress of the case more often than was reasonably necessary, he will not be able to recover the costs of those telephone calls from Rodney.\n\nAn attorney-and-client order of costs entitles the party in whose favour it is made to recover more from the opposing party than he would be able to recover on a party-and-party order of costs.\n\nIn a broad sense, attorney-and-client costs include all costs that the attorney is entitled to recover from the client.\n\nIn a narrow sense, they include those costs and charges and expenses, between attorney and client, which ordinarily the client cannot recover from the other party.\n\nIf, for example, a court granted judgment in favour of Armand against Corbin, with costs on the attorney-and-client scale, Armand would be entitled to recover from Corbin all the costs that Armand's attorney would justifiably have been able to recover from Armand.\n\nAttorney-and-client orders are often made because the losing party agreed to pay such costs in an agreement prior to litigation. A court may also make an attorney-and-client order to penalise a party which the court believes has acted improperly.\n\nAttorney-and-own-client costs are the remuneration to which an attorney is entitled, in terms of an agreement or mandate with the client which stipulates that the attorney is to be remunerated according to a predetermined rate (hourly, for example).\n\nThis order of costs therefore entitles the party in whose favour it is made to recover even more than could be recovered in terms of an attorney-and-client costs award.\n\nMagistrates’ Courts are not entitled to grant attorney-and-own-client costs.\n\nIf a court granted judgment in Debbie's favour, against Margo, with costs on the attorney-and-own-client scale, and Debbie and her attorney agreed that the attorney could charge, for example, an hourly fee for consultations, which is twice as high as that prescribed by the tariff, Margo will have to pay that agreed fee.\n\nThis is an order that the costs be paid by the attorney, instead of by the client. A court will make this kind of order where it believes that it was the attorney's fault that certain legal costs were incurred.\n\nA court may also order costs \"de bonis propiis\" against a person who acts in a representative capacity, such as an executor of a deceased estate, or a trustee of an insolvent estate. Such costs are usually granted if there is a substantial deviation from the responsibilities of the person's office—where, for example, the person has acted \"mala fide\", negligently or unreasonably.\n\nCosts are “wasted” when the services for which those costs are charged are of no use to the parties to the action.\n\nWhere, for example, a party sets a matter down for trial, and then postpones the matter, the relevant notice of set-down is a useless procedure, and the costs related to it are wasted costs.\n\nA costs-reserved order entails that the issue of which of the parties is to pay the costs of a particular procedure will be decided at a later stage, usually at the end of the matter, when the court can adjudicate the issue in the light of everything that has occurred in course of the proceedings.\n\nThe court usually reserves cost for argument and determination by a trial court when the liability for costs of an interim application would be more effectively determined by the trial court.\n\nThis means that the costs of preliminary or interlocutory proceedings are included in the total costs of the court case.\n\nThe party who must pay the costs in respect of the main case then also carries the costs of the preliminary or interlocutory procedure in respect of which costs were made costs in the cause.\n\nThis refers to costs occasioned to a party in respect of proceedings that occurred on a specific day, usually wasted costs occasioned by a postponement.\n\nSuch an order refers to party-and-party costs, unless the court indicates otherwise.\n\nWhere a court expressly indicates “no order as to costs,” each party is liable for its own costs.\n\nWhere the High Court fails to deal with costs at all, it is not finalised. Any one of the parties may then approach the court for a costs order.\n\nWhere no order is made as to costs in the Magistrates’ Courts, such costs will be costs in the action.\n\nA bill of costs is an itemised account reflecting all the charges, including fees and disbursements, made by an attorney. The fees charged in a party-and-party bill of costs must be in accordance with the tariff of fees and charges set out in the schedule to the Rules of Court. Briefly, a bill of costs should indicate\n\n\nThe party who has been ordered to pay costs requires the party who is claiming the costs to have the bill taxed by the taxing master of the court.\n\nBefore a bill of costs may be taxed, the party who has drafted the bill must request a date for taxation from the taxing master.\n\nAfter such a date has been allocated, the party who drafted the bill must send a notice of taxation to the other party, to inform him where and when the taxation will occur.\n\nBoth parties are entitled to be present at the taxation, and to put argument to the taxing master in favour of or against the charges being taxed.\n\nHCR 70(4) provides that the taxing master shall not proceed to the taxation of any bill of costs unless he is satisfied that the party liable to pay has received due notice as to the time and place of such taxation, together with notice that he is entitled to be present. Such notice is not necessary, however,\n\n\nIn this regard, MCR 33(16) provides that, where costs or expenses are awarded to any party by the court (otherwise than by a judgment in default of the defendant's entry of appearance to defend, or on the defendant's consent to judgment before the time for such appearance has expired), the party to whom such costs or expenses have been awarded must deliver a bill of such costs or expenses. Such party must give at least five days’ notice of taxation for an hour to be fixed, generally or specially, by the clerk of the court, and may include in such bill all payments that have necessarily and properly been made by him.\n\nDuring the taxation, the attorney of the party against whom the costs order was granted, and who is thus liable to pay the account, will bring to the attention of the taxing officer all items that in his opinion should not appear on such account.\n\nFor example, it may be argued that unnecessary telephone calls were made. The attorney who submitted the bill will then have to furnish reasons to the taxing master why those telephone calls were made, and furnish proof thereof by notes of telephone conversations on file.\n\nWhen the taxation of the bill is finalised, the taxing master allocates the amount that is payable in terms of the taxed bill of costs, puts his stamp on it, and signs it. This “endorsement” is known as the taxing master's \"allocatur\". The taxed bill then has the effect of a court order; if the party who is liable for payment of same fails to pay the bill of costs, payment may be enforced by means of a warrant of execution.\n\nReview of taxation is provided for by HCR 48 and MCR 35.\n\nHCR 67 indicates which fees are payable to the court, while HCR 68 indicates which tariffs are applicable to the sheriff. HCR 69 sets out the maximum fees for advocates on the party-and-party scale in certain matters.\n\nHCR 70 provides for taxation, and provides the tariff for fees that may be charged by attorneys. The latter tariff is divided into the following parts:\n\n\nIn the Magistrate's Court, costs and fees are provided for by sections 80 and 81 of the Magistrates' Courts Act, MCR 33, 34 and 35, as well as the scale of costs and fees con-tained in Tables A and B of Annexure 2 of the MCRs.\n\nThere are two different forms which proceedings may take: action or trial proceedings and application or motion proceedings. The key difference is that application proceedings are used only where there is no material dispute as to the facts.\n\nSince there is no material dispute of fact, in application proceedings the case proceeds largely on a dispute of law; witnesses are normally not called. Evidence is presented on paper and not \"viva voce\". The case usually involves two legal representatives, who appear before a presiding officer and present their respective arguments based on facts which have already been recorded by either party in an affidavit. Having thus put his version of events on paper, the client need not appear in person.\n\nApplication proceedings commence with a notice of motion, together with a founding affidavit. Parties to these proceedings are called the applicant and the respondent.\n\nAction proceedings are trials as we know them. They involve the calling of witnesses, who give their evidence orally before the court. At the end of the case, the legal representatives will sum up the evidence and argue which way the court should decide. There are usually multiple disputes of fact; as such, the court is required to weigh up the evidence and rule as to which version is the more probable.\n\nAction proceedings commence with a summons followed by an exchange of pleadings based on the facts. The parties are referred to as the plaintiff and the defendant.\n\nAppeals are based on the grounds that the decision by the trial court was wrong in fact or law.\nAn appeal relates to the substantive correctness of a decision: that is, to findings of fact and law. A review relates to procedural fairness.\n\nOffers of settlement in the High Courts are covered by rule 34, which distinguishes between two types of claim:\n\n\nIf it made as an \"offer of compromise\" without prejudice, and the plaintiff accepts, the whole claim is extinguished.\n\nThe difference between an \"unconditional\" offer or tender, on the one hand, and an offer or tender \"without prejudice,\" on the other, may be illustrated as follows:\n\n\nAn offer or tender without prejudice may only be brought to the court's attention after judgment if it is relevant to costs. If done earlier, it may result in an adverse costs order against party doing so, even if that party is successful.\n\nThere is no such prohibition in respect of unconditional offers or tenders.\n\nWhether an offer is unconditional or without prejudice can affect the costs award if the court grants judgment in favour of plaintiff for less than the amount of the offer.\n\nRule 18 of the new Magistrates' Courts Rules has essentially replicated rule 34 of the High Courts Rules.\n\nThe defendant may make an unconditional payment into the court with an admission of liability, in which case the matter then terminates. The plaintiff is only entitled to costs up to that point. The defendant is not a judgment debtor.\n\nAlternatively, the defendant may make a compromise offer of settlement without admission of liability or without prejudice. If the plaintiff rejects this, the defendant can pay amount into the court in \"final settlement.\" If the plaintiff does not accept payment, this cannot be disclosed to the court until the end of the trial. If judgment is for less than the amount paid in, the court will order payment to the plaintiff in terms of the award. If judgment is for the defendant, not the plaintiff, the plaintiff must make payment into the court of the defendant's costs since payment.\n\nA compromise offer of settlement is a valuable tactical weapon to achieve settlement of the matter. If the plaintiff rejects it, he must be sure that the court will grant judgment for more than the offer, or risk an adverse costs order.\n\nThis is an extraordinary, hybrid and speedy procedure, whereby a plaintiff in possession of a liquid document may obtain quick judgment against a defendant for the amount payable on the face of a liquid document.\n\nThe procedure is initiated by means of a summons (as in an action procedure). At the preliminary stage, however, it proceeds by way of affidavits (as in an application procedure), and is converted back into an action procedure only once the defendant enters into the principal case.\n\nIt is speedy because it allows the plaintiff's claim to be adjudicated upon before trial, and because it accelerates the process of granting judgment (although the judgment at this early stage is merely provisional).\n\nThe procedure has two advantages for the plaintiff:\n\n\nThe defendant must raise his defence by way of an affidavit, to which the plaintiff may respond with a replying affidavit.\n\nA provisional sentence simply entails that the judgment obtained by the plaintiff at this early stage is provisional and cannot prevent the defendant from proceeding to the principal case. The defendant may choose to satisfy the provisional judgment and subsequently, within two months, and by notification to the plaintiff, enter into the principal case.\n\nThe primary principle behind the provisional-sentence procedure is that the court will grant judgment to the plaintiff on the basis of a presumption of indebtedness, founded on the legal validity of the liquid document before the court. The court is thus provisionally satisfied that the plaintiff will succeed in the principal case. The purpose of a provisional sentence is therefore to bring the proceedings to a speedy end, especially when the defendant does not have a defence to the plaintiff's liquid claim.\n\nA provisional sentence must not be confused with a summary judgment. Both are \"sui generis remedies. Each has its own limited scope of application and specific rules of procedure. Summary judgment may be granted in four situations:\n\n\nThe plaintiff's ability to make use of the provisional-sentence procedure rests on the evidentiary value of the liquid document. On its face, this document must raise a presumption of indebtedness against the defendant.\n\nA liquid document has been defined as a written instrument in which the debtor or an authorised agent, by means of a signature appearing on the face of the document, acknowledges an unconditional liability for the payment of a fixed and certain amount of money.\n\nThe document must speak for itself; the acknowledgement of indebtedness must be so clear and certain on the face (\"ex facie\") of the document that no extrinsic evidence (evidence \"aliunde\") is required to prove the amount.\n\nThe plaintiff must issue a summons in accordance with Form 3 of the First Schedule to the High Court Rules. The summons must comply with the usual requirements for a summons, in respect of the plaintiff's and the defendant's personal details, and must provide an address for service within eight kilometres of the court.\n\nIf the plaintiff is legally represented, the summons must be signed by an attorney. Only copies that are true in all material respects are to be attached to the summons; one need not attach the original of the liquid document on which the claim is founded. Provisional sentence may be refused, or the proceedings postponed, if an improper copy is annexed to the summons. The originals are handed to the court at the application hearing.\n\nThe summons must appoint a day, not less than ten days after the service of the summons, on which the defendant is required to appear in court. When the matter is opposed, it must be set down for a High-Court hearing by the plaintiff before noon on the court day but one preceding the day on which it is to be heard. In the Magistrate's Court, the matter must be set down no later than three days before the day on which it will be heard.\n\nThe plaintiff may amend a provisional summons in the same way and in terms of the same criteria as any other summons.\n\nA provisional-sentence summons contains the following particulars:\n\n\nThe defendant may admit liability for the amount claimed, in which case the court may grant final judgment in favour of the plaintiff. There are two alternative choices available to the defendant should he decide to oppose the matter and deny liability:\n\n\nShould the defendant choose to defend the matter by filing an opposing affidavit, the plaintiff must be afforded a reasonable opportunity of replying thereto. The application for judgment will be postponed, and the plaintiff will be entitled to file a replying affidavit which canvasses all the points raised in the defendant's opposing affidavit.\n\nThe court may at its discretion, but in exceptional circumstances only, allow for a third set of affidavits.\n\nThe plaintiff and the defendant bear distinct and separate onuses of proof in respect of different issues at the provisional-sentence stage.\n\nInitially, the plaintiff need not prove anything; he may \"prima facie\" discharge the primary onus by the mere averment in the summons that the plaintiff is the holder of a liquid document bearing the defendant's signature or that of an authorised agent of the defendant.\n\nIf the defendant disputes the validity of the liquid document, by denying the authenticity of the signature or the agent's signature or authority, or by averring that a simple condition must be fulfilled before payment can take place, the onus lies with the plaintiff to prove, on a balance of probabilities, the validity of the document or the fulfilment of the simple condition. The reason why the onus lies with the plaintiff here is that the plaintiff's right to have provisional sentence granted is founded entirely on the presumption of the authenticity and legal validity of the liquid document.\n\nThe defendant bears the onus of showing that the probabilities of success in the principal case lie in his or her favour, and that the probability of success in the principal case is against the plaintiff. Even when the defendant raises a defence which is unconnected with the liquid document, the onus remains the same. The defendant's onus must be discharged on the facts set out in his or her affidavit. Unless exceptional circumstances exist, the court will grant provisional sentence.\n\nAt the hearing, the plaintiff and the defendant, or their legal representatives, adduce arguments before a motion court. These arguments are based on the allegations and averments raised in the summons, the defendant's opposing affidavit and the plaintiff's replying affidavit.\n\nThe plaintiff delivers to the court the original liquid document on which the action is based and moves for judgment on it. The plaintiff's onus of proving the authenticity of the defendant's signature may be decided on the papers alone, or the court may allow the plaintiff to discharge the onus by calling for oral evidence. The court has the authority to hear oral evidence in respect of the authenticity of the defendant's signature or the agent's signature or authority.\n\nThe court's authority is limited to these specific instances; it may not call for \"viva voce\" evidence of other issues. The court may exercise the power to call for oral evidence only in exceptional circumstances, having regard to the nature and purpose of the provisional-sentence proceeding.\n\nProvisional sentence will be refused when the plaintiff fails to discharge his onus of proof on a balance of probabilities, or when the defendant succeeds in discharging his onus of convincing the court that the probabilities of success in the principal case are against the plaintiff.\n\nThe matter is then converted into a trial action, in which the rules of pleading and conduct of a trial will apply. The matter proceeds to trial in the usual way, with the court ordering the provisional summons to stand as a normal summons and the defendant to file a plea within a stated time.\n\nIt is preferable for the court to order the delivery of a plea by the defendant; otherwise the proceeding may come to an end. During this conversion process, the court has discretion to award such an order as to costs as it may deem just.\n\nProvisional sentence will be granted when the plaintiff succeeds in discharging his onus of proof on a balance of probabilities, or when the defendant fails to establish a defence on a balance of probabilities.\n\nThe plaintiff is entitled to immediate payment of the judgment amount and taxed costs. If the defendant does not pay the capital amount, the plaintiff may issue a warrant of execution against the defendant's property.\n\nThe judgment is only provisional; it does not prevent the defendant from electing to enter into the principal case and obtaining a reversal of the provisional-sentence judgment.\n\nA defendant who chooses to proceed to trial may call upon the plaintiff, once the judgment amount has been paid, to furnish security to the satisfaction of the registrar or the clerk. In practice, the parties usually agree that the capital amount due in terms of the judgment will be paid directly to the registrar or clerk by the defendant, to be held as security.\n\nThe object of the security is to ensure that, should the defendant succeed in the principal case, the defendant will receive repayment of the amount which was paid out in terms of the provisional judgment. A plaintiff who fails to provide security is not entitled to provisional relief; he must proceed to the principal case and request a grant of final judgment.\n\nThe defendant is not entitled to take any further procedural steps until he has satisfied the provisional judgment or the plaintiff has failed to furnish security when called upon to do so.\n\nAny step taken in breach of these rules will be irregular and liable to be set aside. The defendant may select either of the following two procedural options:\n\n\nThe onus of proof is an important principle. It largely determines whether or not the matter will proceed to the principal case. If the court is of the opinion that the probabilities of success are not in favour of either party, or are only in favour of the plaintiff, it is established practice to grant provisional sentence.\n\nThe reason why a defendant enters into the principal case is normally that the defendant will enjoy the benefit of being able to lead oral evidence without the limitations imposed by a provisional-sentence proceeding, as well as the benefit of cross-examining the plaintiff's witnesses, which benefit is not available in a provisional-sentence proceeding.\n\nIn addition, the onus of proof at the trial is usually borne by the plaintiff, in terms of the rule that \"he who makes the averment or asserts the claim must prove it,\" whereas during the provisional-sentence procedure the onus is on the defendant to satisfy the court that he will succeed in the principal case.\n\nThe defendant may therefore find that a trial gives him an advantage over the plaintiff. Nevertheless, in practice, few defendants continue to the principal case. The vast majority of provisional-sentence orders therefore become final judgments.\n\nSee \"Western Bank v Pretorius\" and \"Barclays Western Bank v Pretorius\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37115559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37115559", "title": "Clean IT Project", "text": "Clean IT Project\n\nThe Clean IT Project is an online project initiated by the European Union, aiming to reduce or discourage online terrorism and further illegal activities via the internet. They aim to create a document that commits the internet industry to help governments discover content that incites acts of terrorism. The main facilitators that undertook this project were the Netherlands, Germany, United Kingdom, Belgium, and Spain. There are many more supporting EU members such as Hungary, Romania, and recently, Italy, but the main countries that have started the project are the 5 listed above. \n\nAs stated on the project website, the objectives of the Clean IT Project include:\n\n\nBefore the Internet was created, the transmittance of information between mediums was limited by distance. However, since modernization and constant development of this resource, we are now able to communicate with people across the world by a means of a couple clicks and keystrokes. While we have seen many benefits through the creation of the Internet, this extension of freedom has also led to many setbacks, which the Clean IT project strives to solve. Clean IT is particularly concerned with possible terrorist attacks. The ease of accessibility to reach individuals and corporations, harness large amounts of information, and manipulate systems can all be derived from this common source, and for these key reasons, Europe has made large strides in making their vision of clean Internet technology a reality.\n\nThis project was drafted through an open dialogue between the private corporations and government agencies which started in June 2011 and had concluded in March 2013. This process involved 6 meetings in Amsterdam, Madrid, Brussels, Berlin, Utrecht, and Vienna, where a project team facilitated the conversation for Clean IT. This dialogue involved over 110 participants: representatives from both the government and private corporations as well as experts and academics in the related fields. Once a revision had been made on the document after every meeting, the document was released to the general public in order to consider their opinion as well. The final version of the document was released on 21 January 2013, which included a detailed analysis of online terrorist activities and nine general guidelines that suggest the best practices or ways to reduce online terrorism.\n\nOn their website they state that their goal is to \"To start a constructive public-private dialogue about terrorist use of the Internet\". To further elaborate, the Clean IT project has created a set of guidelines that would be supported by public and private parties, a code of conduct on how to deal with possible terrorist attacks online. The solution, they state, is made on a case by case basis with one basic principle that has upset many, \"Any action taken to reduce the terrorist use of the Internet must comply with national and European laws and regulations, and respect fundamental rights and freedoms, including access to the Internet, freedoms of assembly and expression, privacy and data protection\". \n\n\nGovernments/Ministries that joined the project:\n\n\nThese persons or organizations attended Clean IT events and/or exchanged views to contribute to the project. \n\n\nMany individuals fear that the actions of this project will continue to grow and possibly restrict use of the Internet. The project would require Internet users to use their real name in all online communication and punish individual for linking to \"terrorist content\", making no distinction between searching for educational or malicious purposes. Many activist groups and individuals are deeply concerned regarding the scope of the government's capabilities of keeping an eye on the general public. If the past is an indicator, the Clean IT project will see opposition if the Internet community bands together with a worldwide protest, such as one that was successfully able to kill ACTA. A recently leaked document has raised the concern that the initiative has drifted away from its initial aims of fighting the illegal activities and online terrorism. Their broad, vague and widespread approach to online security has arisen concern for internet freedom in addition to the project’s dedication to defending the law. The leaked document reveals measures that would allow the removal of lawful content and several other factors including the implementation of blocking systems. There is also the issue of private corporations being involved in the equation of this agreement in the Clean IT project where their personal interests are also intervening with the issue.\n\nThe leaked document includes the following proposals:\n\n\nOn 12 September 2012, the world-renowned hacker group Anonymous made a statement in a video online indicating their opposition to the Clean IT project. They highlight the ambiguity of the notion of \"cyber terrorism\" and the possibility that the government will twist the definition of this term in order to censor internet usage at home. The Anonymous also argue that this Clean IT project will violate the two main principles of the online environment which are Internet anonymity and Internet neutrality. The group argues that if this project goes under way, everyone on the internet will be required to reveal their names and personal privacy will be void. They argue that they are not for the idea of cyber terrorism but they believe that limiting the rights is not the only way of combating such threats. The anonymous message ends with a threat to the European government by saying that the group is willing to break down any kinds of rules and restrictions in order to put a stop to the project.\n\nEuropean Digital Rights is a group that was created to defend the civil rights of the people in the information society. This group has actively spoken out against the Clean IT project by not only saying that the project itself is a violation of privacy but they highlight a very key aspect in the final published version of the Clean IT project document that there is a huge amount of censorship power that involves the interest of the private filtering companies. The whole dialogue that was created by the Clean IT project was not a government centered dialogue but it was a government with a few multi corporate companies to counter online terrorism. However, during the process, EDRi suggests that the private companies’ personal interests had been readily involved in the project document itself. The fact the document does not specify the term for what contents to block implies that the censored content depends on the reliability of the companies that provide the internet content. Also EDRi points out that the term \"block\" in the document is also used very vaguely in the sense that some customers will be limited and others will not be which suggests an unequal exposure to certain content. These two principles imply, EDRi suggests that the private companies have a considerable influence on the project itself and the disclosure of information.\n\n"}
{"id": "941690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=941690", "title": "Competition Commission", "text": "Competition Commission\n\nThe Competition Commission was a non-departmental public body responsible for investigating mergers, markets and other enquiries related to regulated industries under competition law in the United Kingdom. It was a competition regulator under the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS). It was tasked with ensuring healthy competition between companies in the UK for the ultimate benefit of consumers and the economy.\n\nThe Competition Commission replaced the Monopolies and Mergers Commission on 1 April 1999. It was created by the Competition Act 1998, although the majority of its powers were governed by the Enterprise Act 2002.\n\nThe Enterprise Act 2002 gave the Competition Commission wider powers and greater independence than the MMC had previously, so that it could make decisions on inquiries rather than giving recommendations to Government, and was also responsible for taking appropriate actions and measures (known as remedies) following inquiries which had identified competition problems.\n\nThe Government was still able to intervene on mergers that involve a specified public interest criterion such as media plurality, national security and financial stability.\n\nOn 1 April 2014 the Competition Commission was replaced by the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA), which also took over several responsibilities of the Office of Fair Trading.\n\nThe Monopolies and Restrictive Practices Commission was set up on 1 January 1949, in response to the recommendations of several committees of inquiry into restrictive commercial activity. It was established under the Monopolies and Restrictive Practices (Inquiry and Control) Act 1948. It was reconstituted as the Monopolies Commission on 31 October 1956 by the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1955, which also set up a Restrictive Practices Court and a registrar of restrictive trading agreements. The Commission was again reconstituted, and its powers extended, by the Monopolies and Mergers Act 1965. In 1969 oversight of the Commission passed to the Department of Employment and Productivity, and in 1970 to the Department of Trade and Industry. Under the Fair Trading Act 1973 the Commission became, from 1 November 1973, the Monopolies and Mergers Commission, with wider powers to deal with references either from the Office of Fair Trading or from the Department of Trade and Industry. On 1 April 1999, as a result of the Competition Act 1998, it became the Competition Commission.\n\nThe Competition Commission (CC) was an independent public body which conducts in-depth inquiries into mergers, markets and the regulation of the major regulated industries, ensuring healthy competition between companies in the UK for the benefit of companies, customers and the economy.\n\nAll of the CC's inquiries were undertaken following a reference made by another authority, most often the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) (which referred merger and market inquiries), or one of the sector regulators (which could refer markets within their sectoral jurisdictions or make regulatory references in relation to price controls and other licence modifications) or as a result of an appeal from a decision of one of the sector regulators.\n\nUnder the Enterprise Act 2002 (the Enterprise Act), the OFT could review mergers to investigate whether there was a realistic prospect that they would lead to a substantial lessening of competition (SLC), unless it obtained undertakings from the merging parties to address its concerns or the market was of insufficient importance.\n\nTo qualify for investigation by the OFT, a merger needed to meet all three of the following criteria:\n\nIn exceptional cases where public interest issues are raised, the Secretary of State could also refer mergers to the CC.\n\nWhere an inquiry was referred to the CC for in-depth investigation, the CC had wide-ranging powers to remedy any competition concerns, including preventing a merger from going ahead. It could also require a company to sell off part of its business or take other steps to improve competition.\n\nThe Enterprise Act enabled the OFT (and the sector regulators) to investigate markets and, if they were concerned that there may be competition problems, to refer those markets to the CC for in-depth investigation.\n\nIn market investigations the CC had to decide whether any feature or combination of features in a market prevents, restricts or distorts competition, thus constituting an adverse effect on competition (AEC). Before finding out what percentage firms take up, the CC has to 'define the market'. This is when they have to find out which products are in which industries so they know what percentage to do.\n\nIf the CC concluded that this was the case, it was required to seek to remedy the problems that it identified either by introducing remedies itself or by recommending action by others.\n\nUndertakings or orders are the primary means by which remedies were given effect under the Enterprise Act and the Fair Trading Act 1973. The OFT had the statutory duty to keep these undertakings or orders under review and if it considered that due to a change of circumstances a set of undertakings or an order should be varied or terminated, then the OFT referred it for consideration by the CC. Responsibility for deciding on variation or termination of undertakings lay with the CC.\n\nIn relation to regulatory references, the CC's role was dictated by the relevant sector-specific legislation. Companies regulated under the gas, electricity, water and sewerage, postal services, railways or airports legislation generally had a formal instrument (a licence) setting out the terms of their operation. If a regulated company did not agree to a modification of its licence proposed by the regulator, the regulator was required to refer the question to the CC. The CC then considered whether any matter referred to in the reference could be expected to operate against the public interest and, if so, whether it could be remedied by modifications to the licence. These references could involve the price control applied to the company.\n\nThe CC also had roles under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the Legal Services Act 2007.\n\nThe CC had an appeal function following decisions by the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority to modify certain energy codes under the Energy Act 2004 and in relation to price control decisions by Ofcom, following a reference by the Competition Appeal Tribunal (CAT) under the Communications Act 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1137166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1137166", "title": "Concealed carry in the United States", "text": "Concealed carry in the United States\n\nConcealed carry or carrying a concealed weapon (CCW), is the practice of carrying a weapon (such as a handgun) in public in a concealed manner, either on one's person or in close proximity. Not all weapons that fall under CCW laws are lethal. For example, in Florida, carrying pepper spray in more than a specified volume (2 oz.) of chemical requires a CCW permit, whereas everyone may legally carry a smaller, “self-defense chemical spray” device hidden on his person without a CCW permit. there have been 17.25 million concealed weapon permits issued in the United States.\n\nThere is no federal statutory law concerning the issuance of concealed-carry permits. All 50 states have passed laws allowing qualified individuals to carry certain concealed firearms in public, either without a permit or after obtaining a permit from a designated government authority at the state and/or local level; however, there are still many states that, though they have passed concealed carry permit laws, do not issue permits or make it extremely difficult to obtain one.\n\nA comprehensive 2004 literature review by the National Academy of Sciences concluded that there was no evidence that concealed carry either increases or reduces violent crime; some individual studies suggest that CCW reduces violent crime; others suggest that it increases violent crime.\n\nConcealed weapons bans were passed in Kentucky and Louisiana in 1813. (In those days open carry of weapons for self-defense was considered acceptable; concealed carry was denounced as the practice of criminals.) By 1859, Indiana, Tennessee, Virginia, Alabama, and Ohio had followed suit. By the end of the nineteenth century, similar laws were passed in places such as Texas, Florida, and Oklahoma, which protected some gun rights in their state constitutions. Before the mid 1900s, most U.S. states had passed concealed carry laws rather than banning weapons completely. Until the late 1990s, many Southern states were either \"No-Issue\" or \"Restrictive May-Issue\". Since then, these states have largely enacted \"Shall-Issue\" licensing laws, with numerous states legalizing \"Unrestricted concealed carry\".\n\nRegulations differ widely by state, with most states currently maintaining a \"Shall-Issue\" policy. As recently as the mid-'90s most states were no-issue or may-issue, but over the past 30 years states have consistently migrated to less restrictive alternatives.\n\nThere is currently a circuit split between several federal circuit courts regarding the standards for issuance of permits and the right to carry weapons outside the home. The 9th and 3rd circuits have ruled in favor of may-issue permitting policies, while the 7th and D.C. circuits have ruled that states are required to implement shall-issue policies, because the right to carry weapons extends outside the home.\n\nThe Federal Gun Free School Zones Act limits where an unlicensed person may carry; carry of a weapon, openly or concealed, within of a school zone is prohibited, with exceptions granted in the Federal law to holders of valid State-issued weapons permits (State laws may reassert the illegality of school zone carry by license holders), and under LEOSA to current and honorably retired law enforcement officers (regardless of permit, usually trumping State law).\n\nWhen in contact with an officer, some states require you to inform that officer that you are carrying a handgun. For detailed information on individual states' permitting policies, see Gun laws in the United States by state.\n\n\nState regulations relating to the issuance of concealed carry permits generally fall into four categories described as Unrestricted, Shall Issue, May Issue, and No Issue.\n\nAn unrestricted jurisdiction is one in which a permit is not required to carry a concealed handgun. This is sometimes called constitutional carry. Within the unrestricted category, there exists states that are \"fully unrestricted,\" where no permit is required for lawful open or concealed carry, and \"partially unrestricted,\" where certain forms of concealed carry may be legal without a permit, while other forms of carry may require a permit.\n\nAmong U.S. states, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Idaho (residents only), Kansas, Maine, Mississippi, Missouri, New Hampshire, North Dakota (residents only; concealed carry only), Vermont, West Virginia and Wyoming (residents only) are fully unrestricted, and allow those who are not prohibited from owning a firearm to carry a concealed firearm in any place not deemed off-limits by law without a permit. Idaho, North Dakota and Wyoming only extend permitless carry to residents of the state; non-residents must still have a permit issued by their home state to legally carry concealed in these states. Permitless concealed carry in Mississippi only covers certain manners of carrying; see table above. These states also allow the open carry of a handgun without a permit with the exception of North Dakota and certain localities in Missouri.\n\nVermont does not have any provision for issue of concealed-carry licenses, as none has ever been necessary. As such, Vermont residents wishing to carry handguns in other states must acquire a license from a state which is valid in their destination. A popular choice is Florida's concealed handgun permit, which is valid for nonresident holders in 28 other states. All other constitutional carry states previously had concealed-carry license requirements prior to adoption of unrestricted carry laws, and continue to issue licenses on a shall-issue basis for the purposes of inter-state reciprocity (allowing residents of the state to travel to other states with a concealed weapon, abiding by that state's law).\n\nThe states of Montana, New Mexico, and Oklahoma are partially unrestricted states. Specifically, Montana currently allows concealed carry without a permit in places outside of any incorporated municipality. New Mexico laws allow an individual to conceal carry an unloaded handgun without a permit. New Mexico further allows one to carry a loaded handgun either openly or concealed while traveling in a vehicle, including motorcycles, recreational vehicles (RVs), bicycles or while riding a horse. Oklahoma allows residents of permitless carry states to carry openly or concealed without a permit, provided such individuals have a valid ID from their home state. All of the aforementioned states grant permits on a shall-issue basis for modes of concealed carry that require a permit.\n\nOn July 24, 2014, Washington D.C. became a constitutional carry jurisdiction for a brief moment when its ban on carrying a handgun was ruled unconstitutional and the ruling was not stayed. The ruling said that any resident who had a legally registered handgun could carry it without a permit and non-residents without felony convictions could carry as well. The ruling was then stayed on July 29, 2014.\n\nA shall-issue jurisdiction is one that requires a license to carry a concealed handgun, but where the granting of such licenses is subject only to meeting determinate criteria laid out in the law; the granting authority has no discretion in the awarding of the licenses, and there is no requirement of the applicant to demonstrate \"good cause\". The laws in a Shall-Issue jurisdiction typically state that a granting authority \"shall issue\" a license if the criteria are met, as opposed to laws in which the authority \"may issue\" a license at their discretion.\n\nTypical license requirements include residency, minimum age, submitting fingerprints, passing a computerized instant background check (or a more comprehensive manual background check), attending a certified handgun/firearm safety class, passing a practical qualification demonstrating handgun proficiency, and paying a required fee. These requirements vary widely by jurisdiction, with some having few or none of these and others having most or all.\n\nThe following are shall-issue states: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island (for permits issued by local authorities), South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming. The territory of Guam is also Shall-Issue with the passage of Bill 296.\n\nCertain states and jurisdictions, while \"may-issue\" by law, direct their issuing authorities to issue licenses to all or nearly all qualified applicants, and as such they are considered \"shall-issue\" in practice. Connecticut, and certain cities and counties in California, Massachusetts, and New York are examples.\n\nConnecticut law specifies that CCW licenses be granted on a may-issue basis, but the state's courts have established that issuing authorities must grant CCW licenses on a shall-issue basis for applicants who meet all statutory qualifications, as unlike other may-issue states Connecticut law does not contain a requirement for the applicant to show \"necessary and proper reason\" for obtaining a license.\n\nStates with pure shall-issue licensing laws require the issuing authority to issue permits to any applicant who has submitted a properly-completed application, passed a background check, completed any required training, and met any other criteria specified by law. The issuing authority has no discretion to deny permits based on factors beyond the qualification criteria specified by law.\n\n\"Shall-issue with limited discretion\" is a subset of shall-issue licensing that borders between pure shall-issue and may-issue policy, where an issuing authority has a limited degree of discretion to deny applicants a concealed carry permit based either on the applicant's suitability or reason for requesting a permit, even after the applicant has completed any required training and passed a background check. In states with such licensing practices, the issuing authority would be required to demonstrate with substantiating evidence, that the applicant is either not suitable or lacks appropriate need for the permit. Most denials in such states are typically reversed upon appeal provided the applicant has passed a background check and fulfilled any training requirements for the permit. States with shall-issue laws that allow a limited degree of discretion include Illinois, Indiana, Minnesota, New Hampshire, Oregon, and Pennsylvania. Although may-issue by statute, Connecticut also falls into this subset, in practice.\n\nSome shall-issue jurisdictions allow for automatic renewal of concealed carry permits, as long as the permit-holder files the renewal application before the permit expires (or in some states, a short grace period following expiration of the original permit). Other jurisdictions require a permit-holder to complete refresher training in firearms safety and undergo a criminal background check before applying for renewal. Some jurisdictions periodically run permit holders' IDs through the NICS background check system. Other jurisdictions require a judge to suspend a permit if the holder is arrested for certain offenses (return/revocation of the permit depending on later disposition of the case).\n\nA may-issue jurisdiction is one that requires a permit to carry a concealed handgun, and where the granting of such permits is partially at the discretion of local authorities (frequently the sheriff's department or police), with a few states consolidating this discretionary power under state-level law enforcement. Moreover, issuing authorities in most may-issue jurisdictions are not required to provide a substantive reason for the denial of a concealed carry permit. Some may-issue jurisdictions may provide administrative and legal avenues for an applicant to appeal a permit denial, while others do not.\n\nThe law typically states that a granting authority \"may issue\" a permit if various criteria are met, or that the permit applicant must have \"good cause\" (or similar) to carry a concealed weapon. In most such situations, self-defense in and of itself often does not satisfy the \"good cause\" requirement, and issuing authorities in some may-issue jurisdictions have been known to arbitrarily deny applications for CCW permits without providing the applicant with any substantive reason for the denial. Some may-issue jurisdictions require a permit-holder to provide justification for continued need for a concealed carry permit upon renewal, and may deny the renewal of an expiring permit without sufficient showing of \"good cause.\" Some of these jurisdictions may revoke a permit after it has been issued when the issuing authority in its discretion has determined that the \"good cause\" used in approving the permit application no longer exists. Other may-issue jurisdictions allow for automatic renewal of the permit, as long as the permit-holder completes any required firearms safety training and files the renewal application before the permit expires. Some may-issue jurisdictions give issuing authorities discretion in granting concealed carry permits based on an applicant's suitability (e.g., moral character) by requiring the applicant to submit evidence (resume/curriculum vitae, letters of reference, credit history, etc.) showing the applicant is of suitable character to be issued a permit.\n\nWhen distinguishing between shall-issue and may-issue, that distinction may not necessarily be explicitly apparent in the exact letter of the law. Rather, a more accurate determinant as to whether a state is shall-issue versus may-issue is whether or not the applicant is required to show \"good cause\" when applying for a permit. Court precedent also plays an important role in determining whether a state is may-issue or shall-issue without regard to the verbiage in state law. For example, New York is a may-issue state, even though its concealed carry licensing laws includes the words \"shall issue,\" because New York law requires applicants to show \"good cause\" when applying for a concealed carry permit. Since \"good cause\" is highly subjective, issuing authorities in New York have wide discretion in determining what constitutes \"good cause,\" and the ability for an ordinary citizen to obtain a concealed carry permit varies widely throughout the state. In contrast, the pistol permit law in neighboring Connecticut contains the words \"may issue,\" despite Connecticut effectively being a shall-issue state. This is because Connecticut's pistol permit law does not require the applicant to show \"good cause\" to the issuing authority when applying for a pistol permit. Because Connecticut's permitting law lacks a subjective \"good cause\" standard, that state's courts have repeatedly and consistently ruled that issuing authorities must issue pistol permits to applicants who meet the state's statutory qualifications for a pistol permit.\n\nMay-issue can be compared to shall-issue where in a may-issue jurisdiction, the burden of proof for justifying the need for a permit rests with the applicant, whereas in a shall-issue jurisdiction the burden of proof to justify denying a permit rests with the issuing authority.\n\nThe following are may-issue states by law: California, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, and Rhode Island.\n\nA state that is \"de jure\" a may-issue jurisdiction may range anywhere from shall-issue to no-issue in practice, i.e., \"permissive may-issue\" to \"restrictive may-issue\", based on each licensing authority's willingness to issue permits to applicants:\n\nIn some may-issue jurisdictions, permits are only issued to individuals with celebrity status, have political connections, or have a high degree of wealth, resulting in accusations of systematic corruption in how CCW permit applications are adjudicated in some such jurisdictions. Additionally, issuing authorities charge arbitrarily defined fees that go well beyond the basic processing fee for a CCW permit, thereby making the CCW permit unaffordable to most applicants. For example, applying for a New York City concealed carry permit typically costs around $5,000 when the filing fee and other administrative fees are combined.\n\nIn recent cases challenging restrictive discretionary issue laws, federal district and appeals courts have generally applied intermediate scrutiny to these and other Second Amendment related cases, where the courts recognize that restrictive concealed carry laws \"infringe on an individual's right to keep and bear arms,\" but also recognizes that such infringement is permitted to further \"an important government interest in public safety.\" Any and all other Rights that are described as \"individual\" and \"fundamental\" by the SCOTUS require a \"strict scrutiny\" standard as shown in prior decisions involving fully applicable incorporation cases. In Maryland, \"Woollard v. Sheridan\", the United States District Court for the District of Maryland decided in favor of a Maryland resident who was denied a permit renewal due to lack of \"good cause\" in accordance with Maryland law. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit reversed, holding the \"good cause\" requirement met the standard of intermediate scrutiny applicable to restrictions on the right to carry arms outside the home, and reinstated the \"good cause\" requirement on March 21, 2013. The plaintiffs in the case filed a petition for certiorari in the United States Supreme Court; the court denied certiorari without comment on October 15. New York's similar \"good cause\" requirement was also under challenge in \"Kachalsky v. Cacase. \"However, \"certiorari\" before SCOTUS was denied on April 15, 2013. Drake v. Filko, involving several plaintiffs (including one kidnap victim) denied permits under New Jersey's permitting system; the suit challenged New Jersey's \"justifiable need\" requirement for obtaining a carry permit. The United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit affirmed the lower court's judgment holding the requirement constitutional, holding (much like the 4th Circuit in \"Woollard\" and the 2nd Circuit in \"Kachalsky\") that the New Jersey statute survived intermediate scrutiny. The common theme from Courts of Appeals rulings upholding may-issue laws is that state or local policies in limiting who is granted permits to carry firearms in public \"furthers an important government interest in public safety,\" by which state legislatures enact laws making licensed concealed carry available but establish criteria to limit the number of concealed carry permit-holders to as few as practicable to pass constitutional muster. The courts have opined that these laws survive intermediate scrutiny on that basis. However, all other \"fundamental\" and \"individual\" Rights are subjected to a \"strict scrutiny\" standard, see, Duncan, 391 U.S. at 149, and n. 15, supra., \"A right that is fundamental from an American perspective applies equally to the Federal Government and the States.\"\n\nWhile members of the Armed Services may receive extensive small arms training, United States Military installations have some of the most restrictive rules for the possession, transport, and carrying of personally-owned firearms in the country.\n\nOverall authority for carrying a personally-owned firearm on a military installation rests with the installation commander, although the authority to permit individuals to carry firearms on an installation is usually delegated to the Provost Marshal. Military installations do not recognize state-issued concealed carry permits, and state firearms laws generally do not apply to military bases, regardless of the state in which the installation is located. Federal law (18 USC, Section 930) generally forbids the possession, transport, and carrying of firearms on military installations without approval from the installation commander. Federal law gives installation commanders wide discretion in establishing firearms policies for their respective installations. In practice, local discretion is often constrained by policies and directives from the headquarters of each military branch and major commands.\n\nInstallation policies can vary from no-issue for most bases to shall-issue in rare circumstances. Installations that do allow the carrying of firearms typically restrict carrying to designated areas and for specific purposes (i.e., hunting or officially sanctioned shooting competitions in approved locations on the installation). Installation commanders may require the applicant complete extensive firearms safety training, undergo a mental health evaluation, and obtain a letter of recommendation from his or her unit commander (or employer) before such authorization is granted. Personnel that reside on a military installation are typically required to store their personally-owned firearms in the installation armory, although the installation commander or provost marshal may permit a servicemember to store his or her personal firearms in their on-base dwelling if he or she has a gun safe or similarly designed cabinet where the firearms can be secured.\n\nPrior to 2011, military commanders could impose firearms restrictions to servicemembers residing off-base, such as mandatory registration of firearms with the base Provost Marshal, restricting or banning the carrying of firearms by servicemembers either on or off the installation regardless of whether the member had a state permit to carry, and requiring servicemembers to have a gun safe or similar container to secure firearms when not in use. A provision was included in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 that limited commanders' authority to impose restrictions on the possession and use of personally-owned firearms by servicemembers who reside off-base.\n\nA no-issue jurisdiction is one that – with very limited exceptions – does not allow any private citizen to carry a concealed handgun in public. The term refers to the fact that no concealed carry permits will be issued (or recognized). Since July 2013, with the legalization of concealed carry in Illinois, there are presently no no-issue per se; with only the territory of American Samoa being the only U.S. jurisdiction that completely prohibits concealed carry.\n\nWhile technically may-issue under state law, Hawaii, Maryland, New Jersey, and certain cities and counties within California, Massachusetts, and New York are no-issue jurisdictions in practice, with governmental policy directing officials with discretionary power to rarely or never issue licenses. Additionally, some of the United States' insular territories (U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, etc.) are no-issue jurisdictions in practice. Most no-issue jurisdictions have exceptions to their laws that permit open or concealed carry by active and retired law enforcement officials, armed security personnel while on duty and in uniform, and for members of the Armed Forces. Wisconsin and Illinois were the last remaining no-issue states, until licensed concealed carry was legalized in 2011 and 2013, respectively. Prior to legalization, Wisconsin outlawed concealed carry, but open carry was legal statewide. Illinois had banned concealed carry, and generally prohibited open carry in most locations as well.\n\nProhibitions of the concealed carry of firearms and other weapons by local governments predate the establishment of the United States. In 1686, New Jersey law stated “no person or persons … shall presume privately to wear any pocket pistol … or other unusual or unlawful weapons within this Province.” After the federal government was established, states and localities continued to restrict people from carrying hidden weapons. Tennessee law prohibited this as early as 1821. By 1837, Georgia passed into effect “An Act to guard and protect the citizens of this State, against the unwarrantable and too prevalent use of deadly weapons.” Two years later, Alabama followed suit with “An Act to Suppress the Evil Practice of Carrying Weapons Secretly.” Delaware prohibited the practice in 1852. Ohio did the same in 1859, a policy that remained in effect until 1974. Cities also regulated weapons within their boundaries. In 1881, Tombstone, Arizona enacted Ordinance No. 9 \"To Provide against Carrying of Deadly Weapons,\" a regulation that sparked the Gunfight at the O.K. Corral later that year.\n\nMost may-issue jurisdictions, and some shall-issue jurisdictions allow issuing authorities to impose limitations on CCW permits, such as the type and caliber of handguns that may be carried (Massachusetts, New Mexico), restrictions on places where the permit is valid (New York, Rhode Island, Illinois), restricting concealed carry to purposes or activities specified on the approved permit application (California, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York), limitations on magazine size (Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York), or limitations on the number of firearms that may be carried concealed by a permit-holder at any given time (some states). Permits issued by all but two states (New York and Hawaii) are valid statewide. New York State pistol licenses, which are generally issued by counties, are valid statewide with one exception. A permit not issued by New York City is invalid in that city, unless validated by its police commissioner. Permits issued by Hawaii are valid only in the county of issuance.\n\nSome states require concealed carry applicants to certify their proficiency with a firearm through some type of training or instruction. Certain training courses developed by the National Rifle Association that combine classroom and live-fire instruction typically meet most state training requirements. Some states recognize prior military or police service as meeting training requirements.\n\nClassroom instruction would typically include firearm mechanics and terminology, cleaning and maintenance of a firearm, concealed carry legislation and limitations, liability issues, carry methods and safety, home defense, methods for managing and defusing confrontational situations, and practice of gun handling techniques without firing the weapon. Most required CCW training courses devote a considerable amount of time to liability issues.\n\nDepending on the state, a practical component during which the attendee shoots the weapon for the purpose of demonstrating safety and proficiency, may be required. During range instruction, applicants would typically learn and demonstrate safe handling and operation of a firearm and accurate shooting from common self-defense distances. Some states require a certain proficiency to receive a passing grade, whereas other states (e.g., Florida) technically require only a single-shot be fired to demonstrate handgun handling proficiency.\n\nCCW training courses are typically completed in a single day and are good for a set period, the exact duration varying by state. Some states require re-training, sometimes in a shorter, simpler format, for each renewal.\n\nA few states, e.g., South Carolina, recognize the safety and use-of-force training given to military personnel as acceptable in lieu of formal civilian training certification. Such states will ask for a military ID (South Carolina) for active persons or DD214 for honorably discharged persons. These few states will commonly request a copy of the applicant's BTR (Basic Training Record) proving an up-to-date pistol qualification. Active and retired law enforcement officers are generally exempt from qualification requirements, due to a federal statute permitting retired law enforcement officers to carry concealed weapons in the United States.\n\nVirginia recognizes eight specific training options to prove competency in handgun handling, ranging from DD214 for honorably discharged military veterans, to certification from law enforcement training, to firearms training conducted by a state or NRA certified firearms instructor including electronic, video, or on-line courses. While any one of the eight listed options will be considered adequate proof, individual circuit courts may recognize other training options. A small number of states, such as Alabama and Georgia, have no training requirements to obtain a permit—only a requirement that the applicant successfully pass the required background check before issuance.\n\nMany jurisdictions recognize (honor) a permit or license issued by other jurisdictions. Recognition may be granted to all jurisdictions or some subset which meets a set of permit-issuing criteria, such as training comparable to the honoring jurisdiction or certain background checks. Several states have entered into formal agreements to mutually recognize permits. This arrangement is commonly called reciprocity or mutual recognition. A few states do not recognize permits issued by any other jurisdiction, but offer non-resident permits for out-of-state individuals (who possess a valid concealed carry permit from their home state) who wish to carry while visiting such states. There are also states that neither recognize out-of-state concealed carry permits nor issue permits to non-residents, resulting in a complete ban on concealed carry by non-residents in such states.\n\nRecognition and reciprocity of concealed carry privileges varies. Some states (e.g. Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio) unilaterally recognize all permits. Others such as Michigan, limit such universal recognition to residents of the permit-issuing state. While 37 states have reciprocity agreements with at least one other state and several states honor all out-of-state concealed carry permits, some states have special requirements like training courses or safety exams, and therefore do not honor permits from states that do not have such requirements for issue. Some states make exceptions for persons under the minimum age (usually 21) if they are active or honorably-discharged members of the military or a police force (the second of these two is allowed under Federal law). States that do not have this exemption generally do not recognize any license from states that do. An example of this is the State of Washington's refusal to honor any Texas LTC as Texas has the military exception to age. Idaho and Missouri also have standard and enhanced permits that have different requirements to obtain and also have unique reciprocity with different states.\n\nOhio permits have the highest recognition in 40 states. One can obtain multiple state permits in an effort to increase the number of states where that user can carry a legally concealed weapon. It is common practice to use a CCW Reciprocity Map to gain clarity on which states will honor the person's combination of resident and non-resident permits given the variety of standards and legal policies from state to state. There are also various mobile applications that guide users in researching state concealed carry permit reciprocity.\n\nAlthough carry may be legal under State law in accordance with reciprocity agreements, the Federal Gun Free School Zones Act subjects an out-of-state permit holder to federal felony prosecution if they carry a firearm within 1000 feet of any K–12 school's property line; however, the enforcement of this statute is rare given several states' nullification statutes prohibiting state law enforcement officers from enforcing federal firearms laws.\n\nWhile generally a concealed carry permit allows the permit holder to carry a concealed weapon in public, a state may restrict carry of a firearm including a permitted concealed weapon while in or on certain properties, facilities or types of businesses that are otherwise open to the public. These areas vary by state (except for the first item below; Federal offices are subject to superseding Federal law) and can include:\n\nSome states allow private businesses to post a specific sign prohibiting concealed carry within their premises. The exact language and format of such a sign varies by state. By posting the signs, businesses create areas where it is illegal to carry a concealed handgun; similar to regulations concerning schools, hospitals, and public gatherings.\n\nViolation of such a sign, in some of these states, is grounds for revocation of the offender's concealed carry permit and criminal prosecution. Other states, such as Virginia, enforce only trespassing laws when a person violates a \"Gun Free Zone\" sign. In some jurisdictions trespass by a person carrying a firearm may have more severe penalties than \"simple\" trespass, while in other jurisdictions, penalties are lower than for trespass.\n\nSuch states include: Arizona, Arkansas, Connecticut, Illinois, Kansas, Louisiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and Wisconsin.\n\nThere is considerable dispute over the effectiveness of such \"gun-free zones\". Opponents of such measures, such as OpenCarry.org, state that, much like other \"malum prohibitum\" laws banning gun-related practices, only law-abiding individuals will heed the signage and disarm. Individuals or groups intent on committing far more serious crimes, such as armed robbery or murder, will not be deterred by signage prohibiting weapons. Further, the reasoning follows that those wishing to commit mass murder might \"intentionally\" choose gun-free venues like shopping malls, schools and churches (where weapons carry is generally prohibited by statute or signage) because the population inside is disarmed and thus less able to stop them.\n\nIn some states, business owners have been documented posting signs that appear to prohibit guns, but legally do not because the signs do not meet local or state laws defining required appearance, placement, or wording of signage. Such signage can be posted out of ignorance to the law, or intent to pacify gun control advocates while not actually prohibiting the practice. The force of law behind a non-compliant sign varies based on state statutes and case law. Some states interpret their statutes' high level of specification of signage as evidence that the signage must meet the specification exactly, and any quantifiable deviation from the statute makes the sign non-binding. Other states have decided in case law that if efforts were made in good faith to conform to the statutes, the sign carries the force of law even if it fails to meet current specification. Still others have such lax descriptions of what is a valid sign that virtually any sign that can be interpreted as \"no guns allowed\" is binding on the license holder.\n\nNote that virtually all jurisdictions allow some form of oral communication by the lawful owner or controller of the property that a person is not welcome and should leave. This notice can be given to anyone for any reason (except for statuses that are protected by the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1964 and other CRAs, such as race), including due to the carrying of firearms by that person, and refusal to heed such a request to leave may constitute trespassing.\n\nPrinting refers to a circumstance where the shape or outline of a firearm is visible through a garment while the gun is still fully covered, and is generally not desired when carrying a concealed weapon. Brandishing can refer to different actions depending on jurisdiction. These actions can include printing through a garment, pulling back clothing to expose a gun, or unholstering a gun and exhibiting it in the hand. The intent to intimidate or threaten someone may or may not be required legally for it to be considered brandishing.\n\nBrandishing is a crime in most jurisdictions, but the definition of brandishing varies widely.\n\nUnder California law, the following conditions have to be present to prove brandishing:\n\nIn Virginia law:\n\nThe Gun Control Act passed by Congress in 1968 lists felons, illegal aliens, and other codified persons as prohibited from purchasing or possessing firearms. During the application process for concealed carry states carry out thorough background checks to prevent these individuals from obtaining permits. Additionally the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act created an FBI maintained system in 1994 for instantly checking the backgrounds of potential firearms buyers in an effort to prevent these individuals from obtaining weapons.\n\nThe Firearm Owners Protection Act (FOPA) of 1986 allows a gun owner to travel through states in which their firearm possession is illegal as long as it is legal in the states of origination and destination, the owner is in transit and does not remain in the state in which firearm possession is illegal, and the firearm is transported unloaded and in a locked container. The FOPA addresses the issue of transport of private firearms from origin to destination for purposes lawful in state of origin and destination; FOPA does not authorize concealed carry as a weapon of defense during transit. New York State Police arrested those carrying firearms in violation of state law, and then required them to use FOPA as an affirmative defense to the charges of illegal possession.\n\nIn 2004, the United States Congress enacted the Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act, 18 U.S. Code 926B and 926C. This federal law allows two classes of persons – the \"qualified law enforcement officer\" and the \"qualified retired law enforcement officer\" – to carry a concealed firearm in any jurisdiction in the United States, regardless of any state or local law to the contrary, with certain exceptions.\n\nThe Federal Gun Free School Zone Act limits where a person may legally carry a firearm. It does this by making it generally unlawful for an armed citizen to be within 1,000 feet (extending out from the property lines) of a place that the individual knows, or has reasonable cause to believe, is a K–12 school. Although a state-issued carry permit may exempt a person from this restriction in the state that physically issued their permit, it does not exempt them in other states which recognize their permit under reciprocity agreements made with the issuing state.\n\nThe law's failure to provide adequate protection to LEOSA-qualified officers, licensed concealed carry permit holders, and other armed citizens, is an issue that the United States Congress so far has not addressed.\n\nSome federal statutes restrict the carrying of firearms on the premises of certain Federal properties such as military installations or land controlled by the USACE.\n\nOn May 22, 2009, President Barack Obama signed H.R. 627, the \"Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009,\" into law. The bill contained a rider introduced by Senator Tom Coburn (R-OK) that prohibits the Secretary of the Interior from enacting or enforcing any regulations that restrict possession of firearms in National Parks or Wildlife Refuges, as long as the person complies with laws of the state in which the unit is found. This provision was supported by the National Rifle Association and opposed by the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, the National Parks Conservation Association, and the Coalition of National Park Service Retirees, among other organizations. As of February 2010 concealed handguns are for the first time legal in all but 3 of the nation's 391 national parks and wildlife refuges so long as all applicable federal, state, and local regulations are adhered to. Hawaii is a notable exception. Concealed and open carry are both illegal in Hawaii for all except retired military or law enforcement personnel. Previously firearms were allowed into parks if cased and unloaded.\n\nAttempts were made in the 110th Congress, United States House of Representatives (H.R. 226) and the United States Senate (S. 388), to enact legislation to compel complete reciprocity for concealed carry licenses. Opponents of national reciprocity have pointed out that this legislation would effectively require states with more restrictive standards of permit issuance (e.g., training courses, safety exams, \"good cause\" requirements, et al.) to honor permits from states with more liberal issuance policies. Supporters have pointed out that the same situation already occurs with marriage certificates, adoption decrees and other state documents under the \"full faith and credit\" clause of the U.S. Constitution. Some states have already adopted a \"full faith and credit\" policy treating out-of-state carry permits the same as out-of-state driver's license or marriage certificates without federal legislation mandating such a policy. In the 115th Congress, another universal reciprocity bill, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017, was introduced by Richard Hudson. The bill passed the House and is awaiting a vote by the Senate.\n\nPrior to the 1897 Supreme Court case \"Robertson v. Baldwin\", the federal courts had been silent on the issue of concealed carry. In the dicta from a maritime law case the Supreme Court commented that state laws restricting concealed weapons do not infringe upon the right to bear arms protected by the Federal Second Amendment.\n\nIn the majority decision in the 2008 Supreme Court case of \"District of Columbia v. Heller\", Justice Antonin Scalia wrote;\n\"Heller\" was a landmark case because for the first time in United States history a Supreme Court decision defined the right to bear arms as constitutionally guaranteed to private citizens rather than a right restricted to \"well regulated militia[s]\". The Justices asserted that sensible restrictions on the right to bear arms are constitutional, however, an outright ban on a specific type of firearm, in this case handguns, was in fact unconstitutional. The Heller decision is limited because it only applies to federal enclaves such as the District of Columbia. In 2010 the SCOTUS expanded Heller in \"McDonald v. Chicago\" incorporating the 2nd Amendment through the 14th Amendment as applying to local and state laws. Various Circuit Courts have upheld their local and state laws using intermediate scrutiny. The correct standard is strict scrutiny review for all \"fundamental\" and \"individual\" rights. On June 28, 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court struck down the handgun ban enacted by the city of Chicago, Illinois, in \"McDonald v. Chicago\", effectively extending the Heller decision to states and local governments nationwide. Banning handguns in any jurisdiction has the effect of rendering invalid any licensed individual's right to carry concealed in that area except for federally exempted retired and current law enforcement officers and other government employees acting in the discharge of their official duties.\n\nEven when self-defense is justified, there can be serious civil or criminal liabilities related to self-defense when a concealed carry permit holder brandishes or fires his/her weapon. For example, if innocent bystanders are hurt or killed, there could be both civil and criminal liabilities even if the use of deadly force was completely justified. Some states technically allow an assailant who is shot by a gun owner to bring civil action. In some states, liability is present when a resident brandishes the weapon, threatens use, or exacerbates a volatile situation, or when the resident is carrying while intoxicated. It is important to note that simply pointing a firearm at any person constitutes felony assault with a deadly weapon unless circumstances validate a demonstration of force. A majority of states who allow concealed carry, however, forbid suits being brought in such cases, either by barring lawsuits for damages resulting from a criminal act on the part of the plaintiff, or by granting the gun owner immunity from such a civil suit if it is found that he or she was justified in shooting.\n\nSimultaneously, increased passage of \"Castle Doctrine\" laws allow persons who own firearms and/or carry them concealed to use them without first attempting to retreat. The \"Castle Doctrine\" typically applies to situations within the confines of one's own home. Nevertheless, many states have adopted escalation of force laws along with provisions for concealed carry. These include the necessity to first verbally warn a trespasser or lay hands on a trespasser before a shooting is justified (unless the trespasser is armed or assumed to be so). This escalation of force does not apply if the shooter reasonably believes a violent felony has been or is about to be committed on the property by the trespasser. Additionally some states have a duty to retreat provision which requires a permit holder, especially in public places, to vacate him or herself from a potentially dangerous situation before resorting to deadly force. The duty to retreat does not restrictively apply in a person's home or business though escalation of force may be required. In 1895 the Supreme Court ruled in \"Beard v. United States\" (1895) that if an individual does not provoke an assault and is residing in a place they have a right to be then they may use considerable force against someone they reasonably believe may do them serious harm without being charged with murder or manslaughter should that person be killed. Further, in Texas and California homicide is justifiable solely in defense of property. In other states, lethal force is only authorized when serious harm is presumed to be imminent.\n\nEven given these relaxed restrictions on use of force, using a handgun must still be a last resort in some jurisdictions; meaning the user must reasonably believe that nothing short of deadly force will protect the life or property at stake in a situation. Additionally, civil liabilities for errors that cause harm to others still exist, although civil immunity is provided in the Castle Doctrine laws of some states (e.g., Texas).\n\nCriminal possession of a weapon is the unlawful possession of a weapon by a citizen. Many societies both past and present have placed restrictions on what forms of weaponry private citizens (and to a lesser extent police) are allowed to purchase, own, and carry in public. Such crimes are public order crimes and are considered \"mala prohibita\", in that the possession of a weapon in and of itself is not evil. Rather, the \"potential\" for use in acts of unlawful violence creates a possible need to control them. Some restrictions are strict liability, whereas others require some element of intent to use the weapon for an illegal purpose. Some regulations allow a citizen to obtain a permit or other authorization to possess the weapon under certain circumstances. Lawful uses of weapons by civilians commonly include hunting, sport, collection and self-preservation.\n\nThe penalties for carrying a firearm in an unlawful manner varies widely from state-to-state, and may range from a simple infraction punishable by a fine to a felony conviction and mandatory incarceration. An individual may also be charged and convicted of criminal charges other than unlawful possession of a firearm, such as assault, disorderly conduct, or disturbing the peace. In the case of an individual with no prior criminal convictions, the state of Tennessee classifies the unlawful concealed carry of a loaded handgun as a Class C misdemeanor punishable by a maximum of 30 days imprisonment and/or a $500 fine. While in New York State, a similar crime committed by an individual with no criminal convictions is classified as a Class D felony, punishable by a mandatory minimum of 3.5 years imprisonment, to a maximum of 7 years. As New York State does not recognize any pistol permits issued in other states, the statute would apply to any individual who does not have a valid New York State issued concealed carry permit, even if such individual has a valid permit issued in another jurisdiction. In addition, the New York State statutory definition of a \"loaded firearm\" differs significantly from what may be commonly understood, as simply possessing any ammunition along with a weapon capable of firing such ammunition satisfies the legal definition of a loaded firearm in New York. The large variability of state carry laws has resulted in confusing circumstances where a person in Vermont (which requires no license of any kind to carry a concealed weapon by anyone who is not prohibited by law), could unwittingly travel into the adjacent state of New York, where such individual, despite acting entirely within the law of Vermont, would then face a mandatory 3.5 year prison sentence simply for accidentally crossing the state's border into New York. These circumstances are aggravated by the fact that many NYS police departments as well as the New York State Police do not recognize the protections granted federally under the Firearm Owners Protection Act, which was intended to prevent such prosecutions.\n\nA comprehensive 2004 review of the existing literature by the National Academy of Sciences found that the results of existing studies were sensitive to the specification and time period examined, and concluded that a causal link between right-to-carry laws and crime rates cannot be shown. Quinnipiac University economist Mark Gius summarized literature published between 1993 and 2005, and found that ten papers suggested that permissive CCW laws reduce crime, one paper suggested they increase crime, and nine papers showed no definitive results. A 2016 study in the \"European Economic Review\" which examined the conflicting claims in the existing literature concluded that the evidence CCW either increases or decreases crime on average \"seems weak\"; the study's model found \"some support to the law having a negative (but with a positive trend) effect on property crimes, and a small but positive (and increasing) effect on violent crimes\". The \"Washington Post\" fact-checker concluded that it could not stated that CCW laws reduced crime, as the evidence was murky and in dispute.\n\nA study of eight years of Texas data found that concealed handgun licensees were much less likely to be convicted of crimes than were nonlicensees. The same study found that licensees' convictions were more likely to be for less common crimes, \"such as sexual offenses, gun offenses, or offenses involving a death.\" This is also in line with a 1997 study researching county level data from 1977 to 1992 concluding that allowing citizens to carry concealed weapons deters violent crimes and it appears to produce no increase in accidental deaths.\n\nA 2018 study in \"The Review of Economics and Statistics\" found that the impact of right-to-carry laws was mixed and changed over time. RTC laws increased some crimes over some periods while decreasing other crimes over other periods. The study suggested that conclusions drawn in other studies are highly dependent on the time periods that are studied, the types of models that are adopted and the assumptions that are made.\n\nA 2011 article co-authored by Stanford Law professor John J. Donohue found that aggravated assaults increase when concealed carry laws are adopted. A 2017 study in the \"American Journal of Public Health\" found that \"shall-issue laws\" (where concealed carry permits must be given if criteria are met) \"are associated with significantly higher rates of total, firearm-related, and handgun-related homicide\" than \"may-issue laws\" (where local law enforcement have discretion over who can get a concealed carry permit). In a 2017 article in the journal \"Science\" by Donohue and Duke University economist Philip J. Cook, they write that \"there is an emerging consensus that, on balance, the causal effect of deregulating concealed carry (by replacing a restrictive law with an RTC law) has been to increase violent crime\". Donohue and Cook argue that the crack epidemic made it difficult to determine the causal effects of CCW laws and that this made earlier results inconclusive; recent research does not suffer the same challenges with causality.\n\nIn 1996, economists John R. Lott, Jr. and David B. Mustard analyzed crime data in all 3,054 counties in the United States from 1977 to 1992, finding counties that had shall-issue licensing laws overall saw murders decrease by 7.65 percent, rapes decrease by 5.2 percent, aggravated assaults decrease by 7 percent and robberies decrease by 2.2 percent. The study was widely disputed by numerous economists, including Georgetown University Professor Jens Ludwig, Daniel Nagin of Carnegie Mellon University and Dan A. Black of the University of Chicago. Black and Nagin, in \"The Journal of Legal Studies\", said of the Lott-Mustard study, \"once Florida is removed from the sample, there is no longer any detectable impact of right-to-carry laws on the rates of murder and rape\".\n\nA Texas A&M study that looked at issuance rates of concealed-carry permits and changes in violent crime by county-level in four shall-issue states found no increases or decreases in violent crime rates with changes in permit issuances.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42033792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42033792", "title": "Concluding observations on the second periodic report of the Holy See", "text": "Concluding observations on the second periodic report of the Holy See\n\nConcluding observations on the second periodic report of the Holy See was a 2014 report issued by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, regarding the handling by the Catholic Church and Holy See of cases of sexual abuse against minors.\n"}
{"id": "12649191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12649191", "title": "Conference of Chief Justices", "text": "Conference of Chief Justices\n\nThe Conference of Chief Justices (CCJ) was created in 1949 after the need for an organization composed of the states' and territories' top jurists was amply discussed at the American Bar Association and other juridical organizations. The first meeting, organized by the Council of State Governments and funded by private foundations, and held in St. Louis, Missouri, was held at the behest of New Jersey Chief Justice Arthur T. Vanderbilt, Nebraska Chief Justice Robert G. Simmons and Missouri Chief Justice Laurance M. Hyde, who was elected as the first chairman by the representatives of the 44 states in attendance. Thirty-two states were represented by their Chief Justices and 12 by Associate Justices empowered by their Chiefs. Four of the 48 states were not represented.\n\nAt the present time, the CCJ includes all 50 states, the District of Columbia and the nation's five territories, the United States Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa and the Northern Marianas Islands. It is headed by a board composed of its four officers, the immediate past president, five elected members and one member designated by the president-elect.\n\nWhile the Council of State Governments served as CCJ's secretariat for many years, since 1976 that role is carried out by the National Center for State Courts. CCJ's president, however, continues serving as a member of CSG's Governing Board.\n\nThe Conference has studied and issued policy statements on matters pertaining to the state judiciary, including habeas corpus, federal funding for state courts, the State Justice Institute, judicial immunity, court backlogs, cameras in the courtroom and child support enforcement.\n\n"}
{"id": "53761265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53761265", "title": "Davison M. Douglas", "text": "Davison M. Douglas\n\nDavison McDowell Douglas (born September 16, 1956) is an American historian and jurist. Since 2009, he has served as dean of the oldest law school in the United States, William & Mary Law School in Williamsburg, Virginia, where he has served on the faculty since 1990.\n\nDouglas was born in Charlotte, North Carolina in 1956. He attended Princeton University, where he studied history; in 1976, he was on the Princeton team that finished second in the National Collegiate Rowing Championship.\n\nHe continued his education, received a Master of Arts focused on American legal history in 1980. In 1983, he earned a Master of Philosophy and Master of Arts in Religion and graduated from Yale Law School, after which he clerked for Judge Walter R. Mansfield of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.\n\nDouglas joined the faculty of William & Mary Law School in 1990. From 1997 to 2004, he was director of the school's nationally acclaimed Institute of Bill of Rights Law. In 2005, he co-founded the William & Mary Election Law Program as part of a joint venture with the National Center for State Courts. After Taylor Reveley stepped down from his position as law dean to assume the presidency of the College, Douglas was appointed to replace him.\n\n"}
{"id": "9353340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9353340", "title": "Democratic World Federalists", "text": "Democratic World Federalists\n\nDemocratic World Federalists, a civil society organization based in San Francisco with supporters worldwide, advocates a \"democratic federal system of world government\" in order to end war and crimes against humanity and to promote “a just world community and the preservation of a livable and healthful global environment” through the development of enforceable world law. It is affiliated with the Coalition for Democratic World Government, the Community of World Citizens, and the World Federalist Movement.\n\nAlthough the organization was incorporated as an independent public-benefit educational organization in California on 28 January 2004, its origins go back in history.\n\nFar from world federation being a phenomenon of the 20th Century, among intellectuals around the world Dante, Penn, Paine, Kant, and K’ang emphasized the necessity of unity and peace of humankind.\n\nThomas Jefferson founded democracy in the 1770s and after which the following events happened.\nDemocracy, as the principle for legitimizing the government of the people, began to flourish in ancient Athens. It developed further in the city-states of the Swiss confederation and the town meetings in colonial New England. By the 1780s a democratic federation was created in the United States following the American Revolution, with Tom Paine, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and James Wilson as leading proponents through the Declaration of Independence and the Federal Constitution. Soon afterwards, the French Revolution produced the French Republic and the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, as it, too, attempted to end rule by monarchy, landed aristocracy, and clergy but unified competing interests into a unitary state.\n\nDuring the 1930s and 1940s numerous attempts were made locally, nationally, and regionally by courageous pioneers to prevent the outbreak and spread of war and to mobilize initiatives and forces favoring a World Federation. In 1938—1939 Federal Union was launched in the United Kingdom and the U.S.A.\n\nIn April 1942 high-school student Harris Wofford Jr., formed the Student Federalists. It rapidly grew into a national organization with thousands of members from secondary and university students, later including young veterans returning from World War-II. (Several were among the founders of Democratic World Federalists sixty years later.)\n\nIn 1945-46 a Hungarian news agency head, Emery Reves, published the seminal \"The Anatomy of Peace\", which declared that sovereignty lay with the citizens, who could delegate powers to governments at all levels, including the global level. This turned on thousands to the idea of a world federation.\n\nIn February 1947 a number of world federalist and world government representatives met in Asheville, North Carolina, and formed the United World Federalists.\n\nIn 1946-47 representatives of early world federalist groups met first in Luxembourg, then in Montreux, Switzerland, formed the World Movement for World Federal Government, and issued the \"Montreux Declaration\", which declared the need for world federal government if wars were ever to be ended.\n\nIn 1949, a team including the President of the United World Federalists of California Alan Cranston and its Executive Director Robert Walker convinced the State Legislature to pass the \"California Resolution\", the first of several post-war state resolutions calling for the United States to participate in a world constitutional convention.\n\nIn 1965, during the 20th anniversary of the drafting of the U.N. Charter in San Francisco, the World Congress of the World Association of World Federalists (successor to W.M.W.F.G.) was held in San Francisco.\n\nIn 1983 the World Federalist Association was organized from the chapters and members of the old United World Federalists, and the Northern California region became active again with a staffed office first in Oakland, then in San Francisco.\n\nIn 1989 and throughout the 1990s activists in Northern California supported Philadelphia-II and its sister organization, One World, a movement for direct democracy leading to a world constitutional convention through the citizens’ initiative.\n\nSince 1992 D.W.F. has published the quarterly \"Toward Democratic World Federation\", which provides articles from leading world federalist scholars, activist citizens and like-minded organizations on World Government and related current topics. (To access T.D.W.F. articles in D.W.F.’s e-archives click here.)\n\nIn 1993 when the World Federalist Association was promoting United Nations Reform, its Northern California branch played a major role in organizing a hearing in San Francisco of Congressman Jim Leach’s U.S. Commission on Improving the Effectiveness of the United Nations. This took place in the Green Room of the War Memorial Building, where the Charter of the U.N. had been negotiated in 1945.\n\nIn 1995 W.F.A.’s Northern California branch hosted the XXIInd World Congress of the World Federalist Movement (successor to WAWF), and organized an all-day forum on “Restructuring the United Nations: Achieving Democratic Global Governance for the 21st Century” with speakers from fourteen countries.\n\nDuring the 1990s a committee of W.F.M. Councillors from 11 countries on four continents headed by one from Northern California produced a pamphlet of democratic world federalist principles, which D.W.F. published as \"Federalism and the Right of People to Self-Government\".\n\nIn 2004-05 activists of the former W.F.A./N.Ca. incorporated as a civil society educational body (coming under Section 501(c)(3) of the I.R.S. code) and, with citizens from a dozen countries active in its office and/or governance, it took the name Democratic World Federalists, as it attracted supporters of world federation from throughout the United States and on five continents.\n\nIn 2005 D.W.F. helped promote the launching of \"One World Democracy\", written by two of its supporters.\n\nToday, over sixty years after its foundation, D.W.F. promotes a democratic world federation and addresses contemporary global problems by e-mail, a quarterly publication, and outreach to media, politicians, educational institutions and libraries, and other civil society organizations.\n\nThe goal of D.W.F. is to end war and maintain peace, guarantee human rights, promote a just world community, and cope with environmental degradation and the squandering of natural resources. This can best be achieved through establishing a democratic federal world government. (For D.W.F.’s purposes and objectives, click here.)\n\nRather than using force to solve international conflicts, political and judicial structures and procedures would be used. Although democratically elected national governments would still be in charge of domestic affairs at the country level, world courts with enforceable judgments would be able to try perpetrators of international and world-level crimes.\n\nSince its beginning, D.W.F. has been promoting a better understanding of good government at all levels, up to the global level in the form of a democratic world federation.\n\n[1] See Democratic World Federalists website, http://www.dwfed.org/.\n\n[2] Emery Reves, \"The Anatomy Peace\" (New York and London: Harper & Brothers Publishers, 1945–46)\n\n[3] Barbara M. Walker, \"On the Bicentennial of the United States Constitution\" (Washington DC: World Federalist Association, 1987/1991)\n\n[4] Ronald J. Glossop, \"World Federation? A Critical Analysis of Federal World Government\" (Jefferson, NC: McFarland & Company, 1993)\n\n[5] Barbara M. Walker, \"Uniting the Peoples and Nations; Readings in World Federalism\" (1993)\n\n[6] Gilbert Jonas, \"One Shining Moment: A Short History of the American Student World Federalist Movement 1942-1953\" (Lincoln, NE: iUniverse.com, 2001)\n\n[7] Joseph P. Baratta, \"The Politics of World Federation\" (Westport, CT: Praeger, 2004).\n\n[8] Jerry Tetalman and Byron Belitos, \"One World Democracy; A Progressive Vision for Enforceable Global Law\" (San Rafael, CA: Origin Press, 2005)\n"}
{"id": "23308234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23308234", "title": "Domestic international sales corporation", "text": "Domestic international sales corporation\n\nThe domestic international sales corporation is a provision unique to tax law in the United States. In 1971, the U.S. Congress voted to subsidize exports of U.S. made goods through the income tax law. The initial mechanism was through a Domestic International Sales Corporation (DISC), an entity with no substance which received tax benefits. Today, shareholders of a DISC continue to receive reduced income tax rates on qualifying income from exports of U.S. made goods.\n\nA DISC is a U.S. corporation which has elected DISC status and meets certain other largely symbolic requirements. A corporation so electing is not subject to U.S. Federal income tax. Properly structured, a DISC has no activities other than on paper and no activities not related to the export of qualifying goods.\n\nMechanism for benefit: A DISC contracts with a producer or reseller of U.S. made goods or provider of certain qualifying construction-related services to provide \"services\" to such related supplier for a fee. The fee is determined under formulas and rules defined in the law and regulations. Under these regulations, the fee is deductible by the related supplier and results in a specified net profit to the DISC. This net profit is not subject to Federal income tax. The DISC then distributes the profit to its shareholders, who are taxable on the income as a qualified dividend. If the shareholders are U.S. resident individuals or others eligible for the reduced rate of tax (now between 0% and 20%, depending on ordinary income level) on qualified dividends, then the tax rate on the income allocated to the DISC is reduced.\n\nThe pricing rules in the law and regulation are independent of the transfer pricing rules normally applicable to transactions between related parties. Thus, DISC profits are not dependent on the economic contribution of the DISC, and a DISC need have no substance.\n\nSince a DISC has no substance, implementation and maintenance is fairly easy. Complexities can arise, however, in making calculations of the permitted DISC income due to rules designed to help maximize the subsidy. These rules include a \"no loss\" rule, overall profit percentage, grouping, marginal costing and other techniques, use of which may be improved by software tools.\n\nAdditional substantial rules apply.\n\nDISCs were challenged by the European Community under the GATT. The United States then counterclaimed that European tax regulations concerning extraterritorial income were also GATT-incompatible. In 1976, a GATT panel found that both DISCs and the European tax regulations were GATT-incompatible. However, these cases were settled by the Tokyo Round Code on Subsidies and Countervailing Duties (predecessor to today's SCM), and the GATT Council decided in 1981 to adopt the panel reports subject to the understanding that the terms of the settlement would apply. However, the WTO Panel in the 1999 case would later rule that the 1981 decision did not constitute a legal instrument within the meaning of GATT-1994, and hence was not binding on the panel. The Foreign Sales Corporation (FSC) was created in 1984 as an alternative to the DISC. In 1984, partially in response to international pressure, also amended the rules applicable to DISCs to provide that a DISC and its shareholders could continue to defer tax on the DISC’s income, but only if the DISC shareholders paid interest on the deferred tax.\n\n"}
{"id": "29434137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29434137", "title": "East Riding County Council", "text": "East Riding County Council\n\nEast Riding County Council (ERCC) was the county council of the East Riding of Yorkshire from 1 April 1889 to 31 March 1974. \n\nThe county council had jurisdiction over the administrative county of the East Riding and therefore did not include the county borough of Kingston upon Hull.\n\n"}
{"id": "366725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=366725", "title": "European Social Forum", "text": "European Social Forum\n\nThe European Social Forum (ESF) was a recurring conference held by members of the alter-globalization movement (also known as the Global Justice Movement). In the first few years after it started in 2002 the conference was held every year, but later it became biannual due to difficulties with finding host countries. The conference was last held in 2010. It aims to allow social movements, trade unions, NGOs, refugees, peace and anti-imperial groups, anti-racist movements, environmental movements, networks of the excluded and community campaigns from Europe and the world to come together and discuss themes linked to major European and global issues, in order to coordinate campaigns, share ideas and refine organizing strategies. It emerged from the World Social Forum and follows its Charter of Principles.\n\nThe first forum was held in Florence in November 2002. The slogan was \"Against war, racism and neo-liberalism,\" with specific reference to US president George W. Bush's plan for regime change in Iraq. The Assembly of Social Movements held directly after the ESF launched a call for a Europe-wide day of action against the incipient Iraq War. The call was echoed by the Assembly of Social Movements held after the World Social Forum a few months later and eventually led to the \"largest protest event in human history\", the 15 February Global day of action against the war.\n\nBefore its opening the ESF created a large political debate between different Tuscan local personages. The President of the Region, Claudio Martini, although criticised on some points by no-global activists, had been a supporter of the movement since the time of the Genoa Group of Eight Summit protest on one side and the right-wing Italian government on the other. People feared that the ESF could provoke riots and accidents such as those of the Genoa Group of Eight Summit protest, from 18 July to 22 July 2001. Florentine individuals, such as the controversial journalist Oriana Fallaci, intervened in the debate. Fallaci invited the people of Florence to shut up every shop and stay in their houses. She also compared the ESF to the nazi occupation of Florence. Other opponents of the ESF included the political scientist Giovanni Sartori, a liberal critic of Silvio Berlusconi's government but an admirer of the United States, and the filmmaker Franco Zeffirelli, whose right-wing political views were already well-known. Another group of intellectuals from various political strands defended the ESF and signed an appeal favourable to the meeting. Among these were the journalist Tiziano Terzani and the organizers of the \"professors' movement\" (a group of university professors that had organized both a demonstration and discussion groups against Berlusconi's policies).\n\nIn fact, the European Social Forum, which occupied the historical Fortezza da Basso and other conference buildings with its 60.000 delegates, did not provoke any incidents. It ended with a huge demonstration against the war, which the organizers claimed included the participation of 1,000,000 people. The debate on peace and pacifism considered the most important debate ion the session, although the program of the Forum included a large spectrum of issues: (immigration, European Union's constitution, the Tobin Tax and many others). Gino Strada, president of \"Emergency\", the Italian association that helps civil victims of armed conflicts, and a leader of the pacifist movement, was one of the most popular orators. Some large NGOs such as Amnesty International joined the ESF, together with more radical groups such as ATTAC and the left-wing parliamentarians. At the end of the meeting, even pro-globalists such as the then president of the European Commission Romano Prodi showed sympathy for the moderation of the movement and for its pacifist stance.\n\nA network of volunteer translators, Babels, was set up to interpret the event into the various languages of the people attending.\n\nThe second European Social Forum was held in Paris in November 2003.\n\nOrganizers claim that over 50,000 people attended and that around 150,000 marched in the demonstration held on the last day.\n\nIn France there has been some criticism of the organization for not being open enough. The participation of the French Socialist Party, the Parti Socialiste, also generated a lot of criticism, because the party was a proponents of market liberalization in the 1990s, but the most prominent group at the event was the Ligue Communiste Revolutionnaire.\n\nSome anarchist groups organised a rival event in the city at the same time, while a women's forum was held in the days preceding the social forum, in order to counteract the perceived under-representation of women at the first ESF. It is claimed that over 3,000 women attended.\n\nThe third European Social Forum was held in London, mostly at Alexandra Palace but also with events throughout the Bloomsbury area of London on the 15–17 October 2004.\n\nThe organisers claimed that approximately 25,000 people took part in 500 plenaries, seminars, workshops, and cultural events, which were addressed by over 2,500 speakers. Participants came from across the continent and even from beyond the boundaries of European Union.\n\nThis forum showed a marked increased in participation from minority groups such as black, Asian, Muslim, and refugee networks. More women were represented on the speaker platforms than in previous forums. The forum also included for the first time a three-day cultural programme organised through open submission through the ESF website.\n\nWell known participants and speakers included Ahmed Ben Bella, the leader of the Algerian resistance to French rule, Dr Aleida Guevara, daughter of Che, George Galloway, a leading figure in the UK anti-war movement, and Dr Mustafa Barghouti from Palestine. Activist writers such as Susan George, John Pilger and George Monbiot were prominent, and Gerry Adams was one of many Irish figures speaking. The Forum opened with a rally in Southwark Cathedral.\n\nUnlike the Paris forum, in London there was initially no money provided to pay for events. Funding eventually came from the Greater London Authority and the Mayor's office (Ken Livingstone and his officers, many of whom are in Socialist Action), several Trade Unions such as NATFHE (the college lecturer's union), AMICUS (a largely technical and industrial union), the Transport and General Workers Union (T&G) and UNISON (the UK's largest public sector union), which provided funds, office space, subsidised tickets for unemployed and asylum seeker attendees and paid for some of the meeting space at Alexandra Palace.\n\nThe British Socialist Workers Party, Globalise Resistance, the Tobin Tax Network and the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament were central to bringing the event to London.\n\nOther groups, for instance the London Social Forum, felt that the main organizing approach was too top-down and instead set up \"horizontally\" organised fringe events. These were known as the 'autonomous' or 'beyond' ESF events. Participants ranged from non-governmental organisations, to political parties such as the Green Party, to unaligned anarchists and socialists.\n\nThe Millennium Dome was turned into a giant hostel for over 5,000 participants to sleep in during the course of the event.\n\nSubhi al Mashadani, the leader of the Iraqi Federation of Trade Unions, was due to speak in a meeting on the Iraq war, but never got to speak. He was shouted down by some members of the audience who felt he was collaborating with the occupation and who surged towards the stage when he attempted to address the 2,000 strong audience. The ESF's security took no chances and dragged a furious Mashadani from the stage for his own protection. The \"End the Occupation\" session was stopped, a first in the history of the ESF.\n\nLater in the day an intervention was made by some of those who had been involved with the autonomous spaces during a meeting on anti-fascism. They intended to invade the stage during the speech of the Mayor of London Ken Livingstone (who opposed the invasion of Iraq in 2003 but is a member of the Labour Party which supported it). In fact, Ken Livingstone had already decided not to speak at the event. His decision has been attributed by the National Assembly Against Racism to threats from anarchists but the intervention went ahead. The SWP's Weyman Bennett, a steering member of Unite Against Fascism and chair of the meeting, claimed that he was assaulted by an anarchist. A banner was hung up stating \"Ken's Party - War Party\" and the stage was turned into an open-microphone event with speeches against the 'vertical' organisation of the ESF, the war in Iraq, and recent attacks on freedom of speech by the FBI (such as taking Indymedia servers down with international articles). After the intervention, the originally planned meeting about anti-fascism went ahead but with a reduced audience. These events echoed the attempts by anarchists to attack French Socialist Party speakers in the Paris forum, an attack that was stopped by security.\n\nThe end of the forum saw a massive international demonstration through central London and a rally at Trafalgar Square. However, the Metropolitan Police arrested a number of anarchists on their way to this event. Javier Ruis was arrested at the Rally itself. He subsequently claimed that the West Essex Zapatista were responsible for the threats against Ken Livingstone, claiming that this was an example of Neoist Invisible Theatre. The size of the rally was seen as a sign of its success as an event, though many European critics noted that all of the speakers were British and chosen by the British organisers. Estimations of the numbers present ranged from 70,000 to 100,000 people. Speakers called for an end to war, racism and privatisation. They advocated peace and social justice for Europe.\n\nThe fourth European Social Forum was held in Athens, Greece on 4–7 May 2006. According to the organizers, more than 35,000 registered. The demonstration on 7 May, Saturday afternoon, was announced by the media to have a participation of 80,000 demonstrators, a record in Athens since the anti-war mobilisation on February 15, 2003.\n\nThe fifth European Social Forum was held in Malmö, Sweden on 17–21 September 2008. Approximately 20,000 people were expected to participate in the forum.\n\nThe sixth European Social Forum was held in Istanbul, Turkey, on 1–4 July 2010.\nAs a major political event that brings together highly diverse social movements from across Europe, the ESF has been praised and criticized by various actors, both inside and outside the Forum. While outsiders, especially the mainstream media, tend to focus on \"scandalous\" singular events, groups, or persons and interpret them as representative for the ESF as a whole, insiders have mainly criticized various aspects of the ESF organizing process.\n\nIn the demonstration after the European Social Forum 2008 in Malmö, controversial political figures such as Abdullah Öcalan and Fidel Castro were praised by some demonstrators. 300 of the demonstrators were masked, although it was forbidden. Some demonstrators attempted to break a bank window and threw bottles and stones.\n\nThe liberal Swedish daily \"Sydsvenskan\" considered it \"disgusting\" that the ESF 2008 hosted a panel discussion on how ”imperialism and zionism” use list of terrorist organizations to weaken \"freedom movements, leftist organizations and solidarity groups\" in \"Palestina, Basque, Colombia, Greekland, Turkey, Belgium and Denmark\". These lists contain Basquean ETA, Colombian FARC, Kurdish PKK and previously also Palestinian PLO and PLFP. The seminar was organized by Mikael ”micro” Cromsjö, whose blogs host \"unholy alliances of right and left extremism\". According to the seminar summary, a secret elite alliance has been pursuing Global Order with a single money, government and army, for hundreds if not thousands of years.\n\nAccording to \"Sydsvenskan\", the countries that have permitted \"free trade and liberal politics\", \"have seen poverty and need decline, in some cases dramatically\". \"As the NGOs of rich countries oppose globalization by signs, slogans and stone storms in the name of poor countries, Africans and Asians call for more free trade, capitalism and globalization.\" According to a study by the \"respected Pew Research Center\" of 40,000 people, almost everywhere, particularly in Africa and Asia, a majority of people has a positive attitude on globalization\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33498407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33498407", "title": "GPL font exception", "text": "GPL font exception\n\nThe GPL font exception clause (or GPL+FE, for short) is an optional clause that can be added to the GNU General Public License (GNU GPL) permitting digital fonts shared with that license to be embedded within a digital document file without requiring the document itself to also be shared with GPL. Without the clause, conflicts may arise with open-source projects distributing digital fonts which may be used in desktop publishing. As explained by Dave Crossland in Libre Graphics Magazine, \"A copyleft font may overreach into the documents that use it, unless an exception is made to the normal terms; an additional permission to allow people to combine parts of a font with a document without affecting the license of texts, photographs, illustrations and designs. Most libre fonts today have such a copyleft license – the SIL OFL or GNU GPL with the Font Exception described in the GPL FAQ.\"\n\nThe font exception was authored in April 2005 by David \"Novalis\" Turner, a Free Software Foundation GPL compliance engineer. As he explains, \"The situation we were considering was one where a font was embedded in a document (rather than merely referenced). Embedding allows a document to be viewed as the author intended it even on machines that don't have that font installed. So, the document (a copyrighted work) would be derived from the font program (another work). The text of the document, of course, would be unrestricted when distributed without the font.\"\n\nTo be in compliance with the GPL, Red Hat's Fedora Linux project included the font exception with the license for its Liberation font package, albeit with additional restrictions in 2007. These restrictions prompted further discussion among the Debian GNU/Linux distribution's community members concerning the GPL+FE. This attention prompted Ubuntu to follow suit and create the Ubuntu Font License because they were not satisfied with either the SIL OFL or with GPL+FE.\n\nTo indicate a font exception to the GPL, a digital font creator adds the following language to the end of the GPL text distributed with their font:\n\n"}
{"id": "50079129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50079129", "title": "Gulf of Maine Closed Areas", "text": "Gulf of Maine Closed Areas\n\nThe Gulf of Maine has been fished since the 1700s, and has been a historic fishing area since. Climate change is having significant impacts on this ecosystem; between 2004 and 2013, the Gulf of Maine has warmed faster than 99.9% of the global oceans, increasing average temperature by . Having seen the depletion of groundfish stocks starting in the early 1990s, managers took care to create five closure areas in the Gulf of Maine.\n\nThese closed areas do not prohibit all fishing, rather they prevent the further degradation of benthic habitat and groundfish species. Closed areas are different than Marine Protected Areas (MPA) because they allow some forms of fishing and other activities to occur that would normally not be allowed in MPA.\n\nThe Western Gulf of Maine Closure Area (WGoMAC) was established in 1998 in response to the decreasing Atlantic Cod (\"Gadus morhua\") stock. WGoMAC is located off the shores of Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Maine and is approximately . It is rectangular and runs in straight lines from 42° 15' to 43° 15' North, and 69° 55' to 70° 15' West.\n\nIt is a year long closed area that prevents groundfish fishing. Fishing vessels that are using exempted gear (pelagic trawls and nets) are allowed. Charter and recreational vessels are allowed and may fish with a Letter of Authorization (LOA) from a Regional Administrator.\n\nCashes Ledge Closure Area (CL) was permanently closed in 1998, in response to overfished groundfish resources. The area boundaries of the five sided polygon that is CL run from 42° 42.5' to 43° 0.7' North, and 68° 46' to 69° 26' West.\n\nCashes Ledge is a shallow habitat () known for being rocky bottom habitat, located off the Northeastern US shore. It is a year long closed area that prevents groundfish fishing. Fishing vessels that are using exempted gear (pelagic trawls and nets) are allowed. Charter and recreational vessels are allowed and may fish with a Letter of Authorization (LOA) from a Regional Administrator.\n\nThis area serves as habitat for fish such as cod and pollock, and cod found in these areas have a higher mean age and gut fullness. This indicates that the closed area is working, and the fish are living longer and have access to more food. With cod stock having been decreased steadily since the early 1990s, having healthier and more robust fish will positively impact the ecosystem.\n\nClosed Area I (CA-I) was established in 1994 in an effort to protect benthic habitat and groundfish species. The area boundaries of the four sided polygon run from 40° 45' to 41° 30' North and 68° 30' to 69° 23' West.\n\nIt is a year long closed area that prevents groundfish fishing. Fishing vessels that are suing exempted gear (pelagic trawls and nets) are allowed. Vessels using a midwater trawl are allowed and may fish with a LOA from a Regional Administrator. Because of the success of the scalloping industry, scallop fishing is allowed, as well as vessels in the multispecies Special Access Program (SAP).\n\nCA-I is known for high aggregations of haddock, with 73% of the US catch being within of the closed area. It is an area also known for winter flounder and yellowtail flounder, suggesting these closed areas are aiding unsustainable populations. The northern edge of CA-I is fished intensely.\n\nClosed Area II (CA-II) was established in 1994 in an effort to protect benthic habitat and groundfish species. The area boundaries of the four sided polygon run from 41° 00' to 42° 22' North and 66° 35.8' to 67° 20' West.\n\nIt is a year long closed area that prevents groundfish fishing. Fishing vessels that are suing exempted gear (pelagic trawls and nets) are allowed. Vessels using a midwater trawl are allowed and may fish with a LOA from a Regional Administrator. Because of the success of the scalloping industry, scallop fishing is allowed, as well as vessels in the groundfish Special Access Program (SAP).\n\nThis area serves as habitat for fish such as cod and pollock, and cod found in these areas have a higher mean age and gut fullness. This indicates that the closed area is working, and the fish are living longer and have access to more food. With cod stock having been decreased steadily since the early 1990s, having healthier and more robust fish will positively impact the ecosystem. The southern edge of CA-II is fished intensely.\n\nNantucket Lightship Closed Area (NLCA) was established in 1994 in an effort to protect benthic habitat and groundfish species. It is rectangular and runs in straight lines from 40° 20' to 40° 50' North, and 69° 00' to 70° 20' West.\n\nIt is a year long closed area that prevents groundfish fishing. Fishing vessels that are using exempted gear (pelagic trawls and nets) are allowed. Vessels using a midwater trawl are allowed and may fish with a LOA from a Regional Administrator. Because of the success of the scalloping industry, scallop fishing is allowed, as well as vessels using surf clam or quahog dredging gear. Charter and recreational vessels are also allowed and may fish with a LOA from a Regional Administrator.\n"}
{"id": "578631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=578631", "title": "High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection", "text": "High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection\n\nHigh-bandwidth Digital Content Protection (HDCP) is a form of digital copy protection developed by Intel Corporation to prevent copying of digital audio & video content as it travels across connections. Types of connections include DisplayPort (DP), Digital Visual Interface (DVI), and High-Definition Multimedia Interface (HDMI), as well as less popular or now deprecated protocols like Gigabit Video Interface (GVIF) and Unified Display Interface (UDI).\n\nThe system is meant to stop HDCP-encrypted content from being played on unauthorized devices or devices which have been modified to copy HDCP content. Before sending data, a transmitting device checks that the receiver is authorized to receive it. If so, the transmitter encrypts the data to prevent eavesdropping as it flows to the receiver.\n\nIn order to make a device that plays HDCP-enabled work, the manufacturer must obtain a license for the patent from Intel subsidiary Digital Content Protection LLC, pay an annual fee, and submit to various conditions. For example, the device cannot be designed to copy; it must \"frustrate attempts to defeat the content protection requirements\"; it must not transmit high definition protected video to non-HDCP receivers; and DVD-Audio works can be played only at CD-audio quality by non-HDCP digital audio outputs (analog audio outputs have no quality limits).\n\nCryptanalysis researchers demonstrated flaws in HDCP as early as 2001. In September 2010, an HDCP master key that allows for the generation of valid device keys was released to the public, rendering the key revocation feature of HDCP useless. Intel has confirmed that the crack is real, and believes the master key was reverse engineered rather than leaked. In practical terms, the impact of the crack has been described as \"the digital equivalent of pointing a video camera at the TV\", and of limited importance for consumers because the encryption of high-definition discs has been attacked directly, with the loss of interactive features like menus. Intel threatened to sue anyone producing an unlicensed device.\n\nHDCP uses three systems:\n\nEach HDCP-capable device has a unique set of 40 56-bit keys. Failure to keep them secret violates the license agreement. For each set of values, a special public key called a KSV (Key Selection Vector) is created. Each KSV consists of 40 bits (one bit for each HDCP key), with 20 bits set to 0 and 20 bits set to 1.\n\nDuring authentication, the parties exchange their KSVs under a procedure called Blom's scheme. Each device adds its own secret keys together (using unsigned addition modulo 2) according to a KSV received from another device. Depending on the order of the bits set to 1 in the KSV, a corresponding secret key is used or ignored in the addition. The generation of keys and KSVs gives both devices the same 56-bit number, which is later used to encrypt data.\n\nEncryption is done by a stream cipher. Each decoded pixel is encrypted by applying an XOR operation with a 24-bit number produced by a generator. The HDCP specifications ensure constant updating of keys after each encoded frame.\n\nIf a particular set of keys is compromised, their corresponding KSV is added to a revocation list burned onto new discs in the DVD and Blu-ray formats. (The lists are signed with a DSA digital signature, which is meant to keep malicious users from revoking legitimate devices.) During authentication, the transmitting device looks for the receiver's KSV on the list, and if it is there, will not send the decrypted work to the revoked device.\n\nHDCP devices are generally divided into three categories:\n\nEach device may contain one or more HDCP transmitters and/or receivers. (A single transmitter or receiver chip may combine HDCP and HDMI functionality.)\n\nIn the United States, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) approved HDCP as a \"Digital Output Protection Technology\" on August 4, 2004. The FCC's Broadcast flag regulations, which were struck down by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, would have required DRM technologies on all digital outputs from HDTV signal demodulators. Congress is still considering legislation that would implement something similar to the Broadcast Flag. The HDCP standard is more restrictive than the FCC's Digital Output Protection Technology requirement. HDCP bans compliant products from converting HDCP-restricted content to full-resolution analog form, presumably in an attempt to reduce the size of the analog hole.\n\nOn January 19, 2005, the European Information, Communications, and Consumer Electronics Technology Industry Associations (EICTA) announced that HDCP is a required component of the European \"HD ready\" label.\n\nMicrosoft Windows Vista and Windows 7 both use HDCP in computer graphics cards and monitors.\n\nHDCP strippers remove HDCP information from the video signal in order to allow the data to flow freely to a non-HDCP display. It is currently unclear whether such devices would remain working if the HDCP licensing body issued key-revocation lists, which may be installed via new media (e.g. newer Blu-ray Discs) played-back by another device (e.g. a Blu-ray Disc player) connected to it.\n\nIn 2001, Scott Crosby of Carnegie Mellon University wrote a paper with Ian Goldberg, Robert Johnson, Dawn Song, and David Wagner called \"A Cryptanalysis of the High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection System\", and presented it at ACM-CCS8 DRM Workshop on November 5.\n\nThe authors concluded that HDCP's linear key exchange is a fundamental weakness, and discussed ways to:\n\nThey also said the Blom's scheme key swap could be broken by a so-called \"conspiracy attack\": obtaining the keys of at least 40 devices and reconstructing the secret symmetrical master matrix that was used to compute them.\n\nAround the same time, Niels Ferguson independently claimed to have broken the HDCP scheme, but he did not publish his research, citing legal concerns arising from the controversial Digital Millennium Copyright Act.\n\nIn November 2011 Professor Tim Güneysu of Ruhr-Universität Bochum revealed he had broken the HDCP 1.3 encryption standard.\n\nOn September 14, 2010, Engadget reported the release of a possible genuine HDCP master key which can create device keys that can authenticate with other HDCP compliant devices without obtaining valid keys from The Digital Content Protection LLC. This master key would neutralize the key revocation feature of HDCP, because new keys can be created when old ones are revoked. Since the master key is known, it follows that an unlicensed HDCP decoding device could simply use the master key to dynamically generate new keys on the fly, making revocation impossible. It was not immediately clear who discovered the key or how they discovered it, though the discovery was announced via a Twitter update which linked to a Pastebin snippet containing the key and instructions on how to use it. Engadget said the attacker may have used the method proposed by Crosby in 2001 to retrieve the master key, although they cited a different researcher. On September 16, Intel confirmed that the code had been cracked. Intel has threatened legal action against anyone producing hardware to circumvent the HDCP, possibly under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act.\n\nIn August 2012 version 2.1 was proved to be broken. The attack used the fact that the pairing process sends the \"Km\" key obfuscated with an XOR. That makes the encryptor (receiver) unaware of whether it encrypts or decrypts the key. Further, the input parameters for the XOR and the AES above it are fixed from the receiver side, meaning the transmitter can enforce repeating the same operation. Such a setting allows an attacker to monitor the pairing protocol, repeat it with a small change and extract the \"Km\" key. The small change is to pick the \"random\" key to be the encrypted key from the previous flow. Now, the attacker runs the protocol and in its pairing message it gets \"E(E(Km))\". Since \"E()\" is based on XOR it undoes itself, thus exposing the \"Km\" of the legitimate device.\n\nV2.2 was released to fix that weakness by adding randomness provided by the receiver side. However the transmitter in V2.2 must not support receivers of V2.1 or V2.0 in order to avoid this attack. Hence a new erratum was released to redefine the field called \"Type\" to prevent backward compatibility with versions below 2.2. The \"Type\" flag should be requested by the content's usage rules (i.e. via the DRM or CAS that opened the content).\n\nIn August 2015, version 2.2 was rumored to be broken. An episode of Netflix's UHD version of series \"Breaking Bad\" was leaked to the Internet in UHD format; its metadata indicated it was an \"HDMI cap\", meaning it was captured through HDMI interface that removed HDCP 2.2 protection.\n\nOn November 4, 2015, Chinese company LegendSky Tech Co., already known for their other HDCP rippers/splitters under the HDFury brand, released the HDFury Integral, a device that can remove HDCP 2.2 from HDCP-enabled UHD works. On December 31, 2015, Warner Bros and Digital Content Protection, LLC (DCP, the owners of HDCP) filed a lawsuit against LegendSky. Nevertheless, the lawsuit was ultimately dropped after LegendSky argued that the device did not \"strip\" HDCP content protection but rather downgraded it to an older version, a measure which is explicitly permitted in DCP's licensing manual.\n\nHDCP can cause problems for users who want to connect multiple screens to a device; for example, a bar with several televisions connected to one satellite receiver or when a user has a closed laptop and uses an external display as the only monitor. HDCP devices can create multiple keys, allowing each screen to operate, but the number varies from device to device; e.g., a Dish or Sky satellite receiver can generate 16 keys. The technology sometimes causes handshaking problems where devices cannot establish a connection, especially with older high-definition displays.\nEdward Felten wrote \"the main practical effect of HDCP has been to create one more way in which your electronics could fail to work properly with your TV,\" and concluded in the aftermath of the master key fiasco that HDCP has been \"less a security system than a tool for shaping the consumer electronics market.\"\nAdditional issues arise when interactive media (i.e. video games) suffer from control latency, because it requires additional processing for encoding/decoding. Various everyday usage situations, such as live streaming or capture of game play, are also adversely affected.\nThere is also the problem that all Apple laptop products, presumably in order to reduce switching time, when confronted with an HDCP-compliant sink device, automatically enable HDCP encryption from the HDMI / Mini DisplayPort / USB-C connector port. This is a problem if the user wishes to use recording or videoconferencing facilities further down the chain, because these devices most often do not decrypt HDCP-enabled content (since HDCP is meant to avoid direct copying of content, and such devices could conceivably do exactly that). This applies even if the output is not HDCP-requiring content, like a PowerPoint presentation or merely the device's UI. Some sink devices have the ability to disable their HDCP reporting entirely, however, preventing this issue from blocking content to videoconferencing or recording. However, HDCP content will then refuse to play on many source devices if this is disabled while the sink device is connected.\n\nWhen connecting a HDCP 2.2 source device through compatible distribution to a video wall made of multiple legacy displays the ability to display an image can not be guaranteed.\n\nThe 2.x version of HDCP is not a continuation of HDCPv1, and is rather a completely different link protection. Version 2.x employs industry-standard encryption algorithms, such as 128-bit AES with 3072 or 1024-bit RSA public key and 256-bit HMAC-SHA256 hash function. While all of the HDCP v1.x specifications support backward compatibility to previous versions of the specification, HDCPv2 devices may interface with HDCPv1 hardware only by natively supporting HDCPv1, or by using a dedicated converter device. As a result, there is currently no deployment plan for v2 to replace v1 in existing systems. This means that HDCPv2 is only applicable to new technologies. It has been selected for the WirelessHD and Miracast (formerly WiFi Display) standards.\n\nHDCP 2.x features a new authentication protocol, and a locality check to ensure the receiver is relatively close (it must respond to the locality check within 7 ms on a normal DVI/HDMI link). Version 2.1 of the specification was recently cryptanalyzed and found to have several flaws, including the ability to recover the session key.\n\nThere are still a few commonalities between HDCP v2 and v1.\n\n"}
{"id": "52398503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52398503", "title": "High Seas Driftnet Fisheries Enforcement Act of 1992", "text": "High Seas Driftnet Fisheries Enforcement Act of 1992\n\nHigh Seas Driftnet Fisheries Enforcement Act of 1992 is United States declaration citing an observance of the United Nations\ninternational driftnet fishery conservation program to restrict large scale driftnet fishing in high seas or international waters. The Act of Congress acknowledges the United Nations General Assembly Resolutions imposing a global moratorium on all high seas driftnet fishing by December 31, 1992. In accordance with Title 16 section 1857, the United States federal law 102-582 proclaims the Magnuson–Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act prohibits the application of large scale driftnet fishing within an exclusive economic zone of any sovereign state and the United States.\n\nThe 1992 legislation was drafted as House Bill H.R. 2152 and Senate Bill S. 884. The H.R. 2152 bill superseded the S. 884 bill which was passed by the 102nd United States Congressional session and enacted into law by the 41st President of the United States George H.W. Bush on November 2, 1992.\n\nThe federal statute was drafted as five titles defining the United States bearing on judicial enforcement and marine conservation of large scale driftnet fishing in the Seven Seas.\n\n"}
{"id": "47481202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47481202", "title": "History of slavery in Vermont", "text": "History of slavery in Vermont\n\nAdult slavery was abolished in Vermont in July 1777 by a provision in that state's Constitution that male slaves become free at the age of 21 and females at the age of 18. However, violations of the law against adult slavery were not unusual.\n\nChapter I of the Constitution, titled \"A Declaration of the Rights of the Inhabitants of the State of Vermont\" said:\nThe state of Vermont was created in 1777 by politicians in Vermont defying New York, which then claimed Vermont was legally a part of New York, and creating a popular government that represented their interests, among them abolishing slavery. After 1777, Vermont was repeatedly denied admission to the Union and existed as a largely unrecognized state until it was admitted to the Union as the fourteenth state in 1791. Vermont's admission to the Union made the state subject to the Fugitive Slave Clause of the Constitution of the United States (Article IV, Section 2, Clause 3) requiring fugitive slaves fleeing into a state whose laws forbid slavery to be returned. Later the state was subject to the Fugitive Slave Acts of 1793 and 1850, allowing slave owners to recover fugitive slaves who fled to Vermont.\n\nHarvey Amani Whitfield's book, \"The Problem of Slavery in Early Vermont\", reports that among those violating the abolition of slavery were Vermont Supreme Court Judge Stephen Jacob and Levi Allen, brother of the military leader Ethan Allen.\n\nThe 1790 census counted 16 slaves in Vermont, all in Bennington County. In 1870, the chief clerk of the Census Bureau, who was from Vermont, changed the reported status of the 16 to \"Free Other\", alleging that the original report was a mistake. Whether it was really a mistake is a matter of some dispute. (The 1790 census of the United States did not reach Vermont until the following year, 1791, because the government of Vermont took the position that Vermont was not a part of the United States until its admission to the Union in 1791.)\n\n"}
{"id": "40126708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40126708", "title": "Jordan Green Building Council", "text": "Jordan Green Building Council\n\nJordan Green Building Council (Arabic: المجلس الأردني للأبنية الخضراء) is a Jordanian member-based organization established in 2009. It received its “Established Member” status after the formal acceptance from World Green Building Council in April 2012. Its mission is to promote and advocate for the adoption of Green Building Practices in all phases of the building process leading towards making Green Buildings a widespread reality in Jordan. The Council is part of a global network of more than 80 GBCs worldwide and holds the authority to represent the World Green Building Council (WGBC) in Jordan.\n\n"}
{"id": "8539811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8539811", "title": "Judah IV", "text": "Judah IV\n\nJudah IV (or Nesi'ah III) held the office of \"Nasi\" of the ancient Jewish Sanhedrin between 385 and 400 CE, following Gamaliel V. He was succeeded by Gamaliel VI, the last occupant of the office. \n"}
{"id": "47624883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47624883", "title": "Law on the fight against terrorism", "text": "Law on the fight against terrorism\n\nThe Law on the fight against terrorism (), abbreviated LCT, is a 2006 French counter-terrorism legislation designed to improve state security and strengthen border control. The legislation was passed on 23 January 2006 under the leadership of Nicolas Sarkozy, then the Minister of the Interior. Notably the law increased punitive measures for criminal association and gave the government more power to access personal information online.\n\nAfter the 2005 London bombings perpetrated by Islamic extremists, Sarkozy pushed to strengthen counter-terrorism measures in France. Sarkozy introduced the bill in the French Senate on 28 October 2005, saying that while France had never yielded to terrorist intimidation and never would, the rise in global terrorism necessitated change in policy.\n\nThe legislation amended several previous criminal codes, including the first French counter-terrorism law, introduced in 1986. The 2006 act particularly increased the breadth of government surveillance without judicial control.\n\n\nThe law was criticized for encroaching on personal freedoms and liberties, in particular, accessing phone and Internet data without a signed warrant from a judicial authority. \"Internet surveillance has now escaped from any legal proceedings to be placed under the direct control of the state,\" criticized \"Le Monde.\"\n"}
{"id": "113258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=113258", "title": "Lawsuit", "text": "Lawsuit\n\nA lawsuit (or suit in law) is a proceeding by a party or parties against another in the civil court of law.\n\nSometimes, the term \"lawsuit\" is in reference to a civil action brought in a court of law in which a plaintiff, a party who claims to have incurred loss as a result of a defendant's actions, demands a legal or equitable remedy. The defendant is required to respond to the plaintiff's complaint. If the plaintiff is successful, judgment is in the plaintiff's favor, and a variety of court orders may be issued to enforce a right, award damages, or impose a temporary or permanent injunction to prevent an act or compel an act. A declaratory judgment may be issued to prevent future legal disputes.\n\nA lawsuit may involve dispute resolution of private law issues between individuals, business entities or non-profit organizations. A lawsuit may also enable the state to be treated as if it were a private party in a civil case, as plaintiff, or defendant regarding an injury, or may provide the state with a civil cause of action to enforce certain laws.\n\nThe conduct of a lawsuit is called litigation. The plaintiffs and defendants are called \"litigants\" and the attorneys representing them are called \"litigators\". The term \"litigation\" may also refer to criminal trial.\n\nRules of criminal or civil procedure govern the conduct of a lawsuit in the common law adversarial system of dispute resolution. Procedural rules are constrained and informed by separate statutory laws, case laws, and constitutional provisions that define the rights of the parties to a lawsuit (see especially due process), though the rules generally reflect this legal context on their face. The details of the procedure differ greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and often from court to court even within the same jurisdiction. These rules of the particular procedures are very important for litigants to know, because the litigants are the ones who dictate the timing and progression of the lawsuit. Litigants are responsible to obtain the suited result and the timing of reaching this result. Failure to comply with the procedural rules may result in serious limitations that can affect the ability of one to present claims or defenses at any subsequent trial, or even promote the dismissal of the lawsuit altogether.\n\nThough the majority of lawsuits are settled before ever reaching a state of trial, they can still be very complicated to litigate. This is particularly true in federal systems, where a federal court may be applying state law (e.g. the \"Erie\" doctrine, for example in the United States), or vice versa. It is also possible for one state to apply the law of another in cases where additionally it may not be clear which level (or location) of court actually has jurisdiction over the claim or personal jurisdiction over the defendant, or whether the plaintiff has standing to participate in a lawsuit. About 98 percent of civil cases in the United States federal courts are resolved without a trial. Domestic courts are also often called upon to apply foreign law, or to act upon foreign defendants, over whom they may not even have the ability to even enforce a judgment if the defendant's assets are theoretically outside their reach.\n\nLawsuits can become additionally complicated as more parties become involved (see joinder). Within a \"single\" lawsuit, there can be any number of claims and defenses (all based on numerous laws) between any number of plaintiffs or defendants. Each of these participants can bring any number of cross claims and counterclaims against each other, and even bring additional parties into the suit on either side after it progresses. In reality however, courts typically have some power to sever claims and parties into separate actions if it is more efficient to do so. A court can do this if there is not a sufficient overlap of factual issues between the various associates, separating the issues into different lawsuits.\n\nThe official ruling of a lawsuit can be somewhat misleading because post-ruling outcomes are often not listed on the internet. For example, in the case of William J. Ralph Jr. v. Lind-Waldock & Company (September 1999), one would assume that Mr. Ralph lost the case when in fact, upon review of the evidence, it as found that Mr. Ralph was correct in his assertion that improper activity took place on the part of Lind-Waldock, and Mr. Ralph settled with Lind-Waldock.\n\nCases such as this illustrate the need for more comprehensive information than mere internet searches when researching legal decisions. While online searches are appropriate for many legal situations, they are not appropriate for all.\n\nThe following is a generalized description of how a lawsuit may proceed in a common law jurisdiction:\n\nA lawsuit begins when a complaint or petition, known as a pleading, is filed with the court. A complaint should explicitly state that one or more plaintiffs seek(s) damages or equitable relief from one or more stated defendants, and also should state the relevant factual allegations supporting the legal claims brought by the plaintiff(s). As the initial pleading, a complaint is the most important step in a civil case because a complaint sets the factual and legal foundation for the entirety of a case. While complaints and other pleadings may ordinarily be amended by a motion with the court, the complaint sets the framework for the entire case and the claims that will be asserted throughout the entire lawsuit. \n\nIt is likewise important that the \"plaintiff selects the proper venue with the proper jurisdiction to bring his lawsuit.\" The clerk of a court signs or stamps the court seal upon a summons or citation, which is then served by the plaintiff upon the defendant, together with a copy of the complaint. This service notifies the defendants that they are being sued and that they are limited in the amount of time of a reply. The service provides a copy of the complaint in order to notify the defendants of the nature of the claims. Once the defendants are served with the summons and complaint, they are subject to a time limit to file an answer stating their defenses to the plaintiff's claims, which includes any challenges to the court's jurisdiction, and any counterclaims they wish to assert against the plaintiff.\n\nIn a handful of jurisdictions (notably, the U.S. state of New York) a lawsuit begins when one or more plaintiffs properly serve a summons and complaint upon the defendant(s). In such jurisdictions, nothing must be filed with the court until a dispute develops requiring actual judicial intervention. \n\nIf the defendant chooses to file an answer within the time permitted, the answer must address each of the plaintiffs' allegations. The defendant has three choices to make, which include either admitting to the allegation, denying it, or pleading a lack of sufficient information to admit or deny the allegation. Some jurisdictions, like California and Florida, still authorize general denials of each and every allegation in the complaint. At the time the defendant files an answer, the defendant also raises all \"affirmative\" defenses. The defendant may also assert counterclaims for damages or equitable relief against the plaintiff. For example, in the case of \"compulsory counterclaims,\" the defendant must assert some form of counterclaim or risk having the counterclaim barred in any subsequent proceeding. In the case of making a counterclaim, the defendant is making a motion directed towards the plaintiff claiming that he/she was injured in some way or would like to sue the plaintiff. The plaintiff in this example would then receive some amount of time to make a reply to this counterclaim. The defendant may also file a \"third party complaint\", which is the defendant's privilege to join another party or parties in the action with the belief that those parties may be liable for some or all of the plaintiff's claimed damages. An answer from the defendant in response to the claims made against him/her, can also include additional facts or a so-called \"excuse\" for the plead. Filing an answer \"joins the cause\" and moves the case into the pre-trial phase.\n\nInstead of filing an answer within the time specified in the summons, the defendant can choose to dispute the validity of the complaint by filing a demurrer (in the handful of jurisdictions where that is still allowed) or one or more \"pre-answer motions,\" such as a motion to dismiss. It is important that the motion be filed within the time period specified in the summons for an answer. If all of the above motions are denied by the trial court, and the defendant loses on all appeals from such denials (if that option is available), and finally the defendant \"must\" file an answer.\n\nUsually the pleadings are drafted by a lawyer, but in many courts persons can file papers and represent themselves, which is called appearing \"pro se\". Many courts have a \"pro se\" clerk to assist people without lawyers.\n\nA pretrial discovery can be defined as \"the formal process of exchanging information between the parties about the witnesses and evidence they’ll present at trial\" and allows for the evidence of the trial to be presented to the parties before the initial trial begins. The early stages of the lawsuit may involve initial disclosures of evidence by each party and discovery, which is the structured exchange of evidence and statements between the parties. Discovery is meant to eliminate surprises, clarify what the lawsuit is about, and also to make the parties decide if they should settle or drop frivolous claims and/or defenses. At this point the parties may also engage in pretrial motions to exclude or include particular legal or factual issues before trial.\n\nThere is also the ability of one to make an under oath statement during the pretrial, also known as a deposition. The deposition can be used in the trial or just in the pretrial, but this allows for both parties to be aware of the arguments or claims that are going to be made by the other party in the trial. It is notable that the depositions can be written or oral.\n\nAt the close of discovery, the parties may either pick a jury and then have a trial by jury or the case may proceed as a bench trial. A bench trial is only heard by the judge if the parties waive a jury trial or if the right to a jury trial is not guaranteed for their particular claim (such as those under equity in the U.S.) or for any lawsuits within their jurisdiction.\n\nUsually, lawsuits end in a settlement, with an empirical analysis finding that less than 2% of cases end with a trial. It is sometimes said that 95% of cases end in settlement; few jurisdictions report settlements, but empirical analysis suggests that the settlement rate varies by type of lawsuit, with torts settling around 90% of the time and overall civil cases settling 50% of the time; other cases end due to default judgment, lack of a valid claim, and other reasons.\n\nAt trial, each person presents witnesses and the evidence collected is recorded. After this occurs, the judge or jury renders their decision. Generally speaking, the plaintiff has the burden of proof in making his claims, however, the defendant may have the burden of proof on other issues, such as affirmative defenses. The attorneys are held responsible in devising a trial strategy that ensures they meet the necessary elements of their case or (when the opposing party has the burden of proof) to ensure the opponent will not be able to meet his or her burden.\n\nThere are numerous motions that either party can file throughout the lawsuit to terminate it \"prematurely\"—before submission to the judge or jury for final consideration. These motions attempt to persuade the judge, through legal argument and sometimes accompanying evidence, that there is no reasonable way that the other party could legally win and therefore there is no sense in continuing with the trial. Motions for summary judgment, for example, can usually be brought before, after, or during the actual presentation of the case. Motions can also be brought after the close of a trial to undo a jury verdict contrary to law or against the weight of the evidence, or to convince the judge to change the decision or grant a new trial.\n\nAlso, at any time during this process from the filing of the complaint to the final judgment, the plaintiff may withdraw the complaint and end the whole matter, or the defendant may agree to a settlement. If the case settles, the parties might choose to enter into a stipulated judgment with the settlement agreement attached, or the plaintiff may simply file a voluntary dismissal, so that the settlement agreement is never entered into the court record.\n\nThe decisions that the jury makes are not put into effect until the judge makes a judgment, which is the approval to have this trial information be filed in public records. In a civil case, the judge is allowed at this time to make changes to the verdict that the jury came up with by either adding on or reducing the punishment. In criminal cases the situation is a little different, because in this case the judge does not have the authority to change the jury decision.\n\nAfter a final decision has been made, either party or both may appeal from the judgment if they believe there had been a procedural error made by the trial court. It isn't necessarily an automatic appeal after every judgment has been made, however, if there is a legal basis for the appeal, then one has the right to do so. The prevailing party may appeal, for example, if they wanted a larger award than was granted. The appellate court (which may be structured as an intermediate appellate court) and/or a higher court then affirms the judgment, declines to hear it (which effectively affirms it), reverses—or vacates and remands. This process would then involve sending the lawsuit back to the lower trial court to address an unresolved issue, or possibly request for a whole new trial. Some lawsuits go up and down the appeals ladder repeatedly before final resolution.\n\nThe appeal is a review for errors rather than a new trial, so the appellate court will defer to the discretion of the original trial court if an error is not clear. The initial step in making an appeal consists of the petitioner filing a notice of appeal and then sending in a brief, a written document stating reason for appeal, to the court. Decisions of the court can be made immediately after just reading the written brief, or there can also be oral arguments made by both parties involved in the appeal. The appellate court then makes the decision about what errors were made when the law was looked at more closely in the lower court. There were no errors made, the case would then end, but if the decision was reversed, the appellate court would then send the case back down to the lower court level. There, a new trial will be held and new information taken into account.\n\nSome jurisdictions, notably the United States, but prevalent in many other countries, prevent parties from relitigating the facts on appeal, due to a history of unscrupulous lawyers deliberately reserving such issues in order to ambush each other in the appellate courts (the \"invited error\" problem). The idea is that it is more efficient to force all parties to fully litigate all relevant issues of fact before the trial court. Thus, a party who does not raise an issue of fact at the trial court level generally cannot raise it on appeal.\n\nWhen the lawsuit is finally resolved, or the allotted time to appeal has expired, the matter is \"res judicata\", meaning the plaintiff may not bring another action based on the same claim again. In addition, other parties who later attempt to re-litigate a matter already ruled on in a previous lawsuit will be \"estopped\" from doing so.\n\nWhen a final judgment is entered, the plaintiff is usually barred under the doctrine of \"res judicata\" from relitigating any of the issues, even under different legal theories. Judgments are typically a monetary award. If the defendant fails to pay, the court has various powers to seize any of the defendant's assets located within its jurisdiction, such as:\n\n\nIf all assets are located elsewhere, the plaintiff must file another suit in the appropriate court to seek enforcement of the other court's previous judgment. This can be a difficult task when crossing from a court in one state or nation to another, however, courts tend to grant each other respect when there is not a clear legal rule to the contrary. A defendant who has no assets in \"any\" jurisdiction is said to be \"judgment-proof.\" The term is generally a colloquialism to describe an impecunious defendant.\n\nIndigent judgment-proof defendants are no longer imprisoned; debtor's prisons have been outlawed by statute, constitutional amendment, or international human rights treaties in the vast majority of common law jurisdictions.\n\nDuring the 18th and 19th centuries, it was common for lawyers to speak of bringing an \"action\" at law and a \"suit\" in equity. An example of that distinction survives today in the text of the Civil Rights Act of 1871. The fusion of common law and equity in England in the Judicature Acts of 1873 and 1875 led to the collapse of that distinction, so it became possible to speak of a \"lawsuit.\" In the United States, the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (1938) abolished the distinction between actions at law and suits in equity in federal practice, in favor of a single form referred to as a \"civil action.\"\n\nIn England and Wales the term \"claim\" is far more common; the person initiating proceedings is called the claimant.\n\nAmerican terminology is slightly different, in that the term \"claim\" refers only to a particular count (or cause of action) in a lawsuit. Americans also use \"claim\" to describe a demand filed with an insurer or administrative agency. If the claim is denied, then the claimant (or policyholder or applicant) files a lawsuit with the courts and later participates in the lawsuit.\n\nIn medieval times, both \"action\" and \"suit\" had the approximate meaning of some kind of legal proceeding, but an action terminated when a judgment was rendered, while a suit also included the execution of the judgment.\n\nParticularly in the United States, plaintiffs and defendants who lack financial resources for litigation or other attorney's fees may be able to obtain legal financing. Legal financing companies can provide a cash advance to litigants in return for a share of the ultimate settlement or award. If the case ultimately loses, the litigant does not have to pay any of the money funded back. Legal financing is different from a typical bank loan in that the legal financing company does not look at credit history or employment history. Litigants do not have to repay the cash advance with monthly payments, but do have to fill out an application so that the legal financing company can review the merits of the case.\n\nLegal financing can be a practical means for litigants to obtain financing while they wait for a monetary settlement or an award in their personal injury, workers' compensation, or civil rights lawsuit. Often, plaintiffs who were injured or forced to leave their jobs still have mortgages, rent, medical expenses, or other bills to pay. Other times, litigants may simply need money to pay for the costs of litigation and attorneys' fees, and for this reason, many litigants turn to reputable legal financing companies to apply for a cash advance to help pay for bills.\n\nDefendants, civil rights organizations, public interest organizations, and government public officials can all set up an account to pay for litigation costs and legal expenses. These legal defense funds can have large membership counts where the members contribute to the fund. Unlike legal financing from legal financing companies, legal defense funds provide a separate account for litigation rather than a one-time cash advancement, nevertheless, both are used for purposes of financing litigation and legal costs.\n\nThere was a study conducted in the \"Supreme Court Economic Review\" that shows why litigation financing can be practical and beneficial to the overall court system and lawsuits within the court. This study concluded that the new rules that were set for litigation financing actually did produce more settlements. Under conservative rules, there tended to be fewer settlements, however under the older rules they tended to be larger on average.\n\nLegal financing can become an issue in some cases, varying from case to case and person to person. It can be beneficial in many situations, however also detrimental in others.\n\n"}
{"id": "2281106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2281106", "title": "List of Northwest Territories plebiscites", "text": "List of Northwest Territories plebiscites\n\nThis is a list of territory wide plebiscites that have occurred in the Northwest Territories. Four plebiscites have occurred territory wide in the history of the Northwest Territories, although legislation was passed to allow a fifth plebiscite.\n\nIn 1974 the Legislative Assembly of the Northwest Territories passed a bill to authorize a plebiscite that would allow Northwest Territories communities the authority to control liquor. The bill received Assent from the Commissioner. The commissioner of the Northwest Territories at the time Stuart Milton Hodgson actively lobbied the Federal Government not to reject this step in Northwest Territories democracy. However, the plebiscite never took place: Hodgson ended up using his reserve powers to give an executive decree to allow Inuvik to halt liquor sales. This was the first time since 1898 that the Northwest Territories government tried to exert control over liquor in the territory.\n\nIn 1982 after considerable pressure from native groups and aboriginal Members, the Northwest Territories would try another plebiscite. This time they had the support of the Federal Government. In 1982 they held a plebiscite on dividing the Territory. The result would lead to three more plebiscites leading to the creation of Nunavut.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3521882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3521882", "title": "List of airline bankruptcies in the United States", "text": "List of airline bankruptcies in the United States\n\nA number of major airlines have declared bankruptcy and have either ceased operations, or reorganized under bankruptcy protection. Airlines, like any business, are susceptible to market fluctuations and economic difficulties. The economic structure of the airline industry may contribute to airline bankruptcies as well. One major element in almost every airline bankruptcy is the rejection by the debtor of its current collective bargaining agreements with employees. After satisfying certain requirements, bankruptcy law permits courts to approve rejection of labor contracts by the debtor-employer. With this tool, airline managers reduce costs. Terms of an employee contract negotiated over years can be eliminated in months through Chapter 11. Terms of the Railway Labor Act, amended in 1936 to cover airlines, prevent most labor union work actions before, during and after an airline bankruptcy.\n\nThis is a timeline of airlines who have filed for bankruptcy protection. Also see list of defunct airlines for a list of airlines which are no longer operating.\n\nThis is a list of airlines that have filed for bankruptcy protection via Chapter 7 in the United States. \nThis is a list of airlines that have filed for bankruptcy protection via Chapter 11 in the United States.\n"}
{"id": "170726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=170726", "title": "List of international declarations", "text": "List of international declarations\n\nThis is a chronological list of international declarations, declarations of independence, declarations of war, etc.\n"}
{"id": "376738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376738", "title": "Mikheil Saakashvili", "text": "Mikheil Saakashvili\n\nMikheil Saakashvili (, \"Mixeil Saak’ašvili\" ; , \"Michejil Saakašwili\"; born 21 December 1967) is a Georgian and Ukrainian politician. He was the third President of Georgia for two consecutive terms from 25 January 2004 to 17 November 2013. From May 2015 until November 2016, Saakashvili was the Governor of Ukraine's Odessa Oblast. He is the founder and former chairman of the United National Movement party.\n\nInvolved in Georgian politics since 1995, Saakashvili became president in January 2004 after President Eduard Shevardnadze resigned in the November 2003 bloodless \"Rose Revolution\" led by Saakashvili and his political allies, Nino Burjanadze and Zurab Zhvania. He was re-elected in the Georgian presidential election on 5 January 2008. He was widely regarded as a pro-NATO and pro-West leader who spearheaded a series of political and economic reforms. In 2010, he had a 67% approval rating despite being criticized by the opposition for his alleged authoritarian tendencies and electoral fraud.\n\nOn 2 October 2012, Saakashvili admitted his party's defeat in Georgia's parliamentary election against the Georgian Dream coalition led by the tycoon Bidzina Ivanishvili. He was barred by the constitution of Georgia from seeking a third term in the 2013 presidential election, which was won by the Georgian Dream's candidate Giorgi Margvelashvili. Shortly after the election, Saakashvili left Georgia. Saakashvili is wanted by Georgia's new government on multiple criminal charges, which he decries as politically motivated.\n\nSaakashvili energetically supported Ukraine's Euromaidan movement and the 2014 Ukrainian revolution. On 30 May 2015, Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko appointed Saakashvili as Governor of Odessa Oblast (region).<ref name=\"Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty\"></ref> He was also granted Ukrainian citizenship, and due to restrictions on dual nationality under Georgian law, was stripped of his Georgian citizenship. On 7 November 2016, Saakashvili resigned as Governor while blaming President Poroshenko personally for enabling corruption in Odessa and in Ukraine overall. Four days later he announced his goal to create a new political party called Movement of New Forces.\n\nOn 26 July 2017, Saakashvili (at the time staying in the U.S.) was stripped of his Ukrainian citizenship by Petro Poroshenko, and became a stateless person. But he soon told the press he wanted to return to Ukraine to \"get rid of the old corrupt elite\" there.\n\nSince December 2017 Saakashvili is suspected (by the General Prosecutor of Ukraine) of receiving financing from a \"criminal group\" linked to the ousted (during the 2014 Ukrainian revolution) Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych. On 12 February 2018 Saakashvili was deported to Poland and later relocated to the Netherlands. In October 2018 he was accused by the government of Georgia of masterminding the assassination of Badri Patarkatsishvili - Georgia's richest person - in early 2008.\n\nSaakashvili was born to a Georgian family in Tbilisi on 21 December 1967, capital of the then Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic in the Soviet Union. His father, Nikoloz Saakashvili, is a physician who practices medicine in Tbilisi and directs a local Balneological Center. His mother, Giuli Alasania, is a historian who lectures at Tbilisi State University.\n\nDuring university, he served his shortened military service in 1989–1990 with the Soviet Border Troops' checkpoint unit in the Boryspil Airport in Ukraine (then as Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic also a part of the Soviet Union). Saakashvili graduated from the Institute of International Relations (Department of International Law) of the Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv (in then independent Ukraine) in 1992. At this university he was friends with later President of Ukraine Petro Poroshenko. While in Ukraine Saakashvili participated in the October 1990 student protest known as the \"Revolution on Granite\".\n\nSaakashvili briefly worked as a human rights officer for the interim State Council of Georgia following the overthrow of President Zviad Gamsakhurdia before receiving a fellowship from the United States State Department (via the Edmund S. Muskie Graduate Fellowship Program). He received an LL.M. from Columbia Law School in 1994 and took classes at the School of International and Public Affairs and The George Washington University Law School the following year. In 1995, he also received a diploma from the International Institute of Human Rights in Strasbourg, France.\n\nHe interned at the United Nations. After graduation, while on internship in the New York law firm of Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler in early 1995, Saakashvili was approached by Zurab Zhvania, an old friend from Georgia who was working on behalf of President Eduard Shevardnadze to enter politics. He stood in the December 1995 elections along with Zhvania, and both men won seats in parliament, standing for the Union of Citizens of Georgia, Shevardnadze's party.\n\nSaakashvili was chairman of the parliamentary committee which was in charge of creating a new electoral system, an independent judiciary and a non-political police force. Opinion surveys recognised him to be the second most popular person in Georgia, behind Shevardnadze. He was named \"man of the year\" by a panel of journalists and human rights advocates in 1997. In January 2000, Saakashvili was appointed Vice-President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.\n\nOn 12 October 2000, Saakashvili became Minister of Justice for the government of President Shevardnadze. He initiated major reforms in the Georgian criminal justice and prisons system. This earned praise from international observers and human rights activists. But in mid-2001, he became involved in a major controversy with the State Security Minister Vakhtang Kutateladze and Tbilisi police chief Ioseb Alavidze, accusing them of profiting from corrupt business deals.\n\nSaakashvili resigned on 5 September 2001, saying that \"I consider it immoral for me to remain as a member of Shevardnadze's government.\" He declared that corruption had penetrated to the very center of the Georgian government and that Shevardnadze lacked the will to deal with it, warning that \"current developments in Georgia will turn the country into a criminal enclave in one or two years.\"\n\nHaving resigned from the government and quit the Shevardnadze-run Union of Citizens of Georgia party, Saakashvili founded the United National Movement (UNM) in October 2001, a center-right political party with a touch of nationalism, to provide a focus for part of the Georgian reformists leaders. In June 2002, he was elected as the Chairman of the Tbilisi Assembly (\"Sakrebulo\") following an agreement between the United National Movement and the Georgian Labour Party. This gave him a powerful new platform from which to criticize the government.\n\nGeorgia held parliamentary elections on 2 November 2003 which were denounced by local and international observers as being grossly rigged. Saakashvilli claimed that he had won the elections (a claim supported by independent exit polls), and urged Georgians to demonstrate against Shevardnadze's government and engage in nonviolent civil disobedience against the authorities. Saakashvili's UNM and Burdjanadze-Democrats united to demand the ouster of Shevardnadze and the rerun of the elections.\n\nMassive political demonstrations were held in Tbilisi in November, with over 100,000 people participating and listening to speeches by Saakashvili and other opposition figures. The Kmara (\"Enough!\") youth organization (a Georgian counterpart of the Serbian \"Otpor!\") and several NGOs, like Liberty Institute, were active in all protest activities. After an increasingly tense two weeks of demonstrations, Shevardnadze resigned as President on 23 November, to be replaced on an interim basis by parliamentary speaker Nino Burjanadze. While the revolutionary leaders did their best to stay within the constitutional norms, many called the change of government a popular coup dubbed by Georgian media as the Rose Revolution.\n\nSaakashvili's \"storming of Georgia's parliament\" in 2003 \"put U.S. diplomats off guard... [Saakashvili] ousted a leader the U.S. had long backed, Eduard Shevardnadze.\" Seeking support, Saakashvili went outside the U.S. State Department. He hired Randy Scheunemann, now Sen. John McCain's top foreign-policy adviser, as a lobbyist and used Daniel Kunin of USAID and the NDI as a full-time adviser.\n\nOn 24 February 2004, the \"United National Movement\" and the \"United Democrats\" had amalgamated. The new political movement was named the National Movement - Democrats (NMD). The movement's main political priorities include raising pensions and providing social services to the poor, its main base of support; fighting corruption; and increasing state revenue.\n\nThe 2004 presidential election were carried out on 4 January 2004. The election was an outcome of the bloodless Rose Revolution and a consequent resignation of President Eduard Shevardnadze. It is well known for a very high level of electoral turnout and also for the number of votes cast for one particular presidential candidate — Mikheil Saakashvili (96%). All other candidates received less than 2% of the votes. In total, 1,763,000 eligible voters participated in the election.\n\nOn 4 January 2004 Mikheil Saakashvili won the presidential elections in Georgia with more than 96% of the votes cast, making him the youngest national president in Europe. On a platform of opposing corruption and improving pay and pensions he has promised to improve relations with the outside world. Although he is strongly pro-Western and intends to seek Georgian membership of NATO and the European Union, he has also spoken of the importance of better relations with Russia. He faced major problems, however, particularly Georgia's difficult economic situation and the still unresolved question of separatism in the regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. Abkhazia regards itself as independent of Georgia and did not take part in the elections, while South Ossetia favours union with its northern counterpart in Russia.\n\nSaakashvili was sworn in as President in Tbilisi on 25 January 2004. Immediately after the ceremony he signed a decree establishing a new state flag. On 26 January, in a ceremony held at the Tbilisi Kashueti Church of Saint George, he promulgated a decree granting permission for the return of the body of the first President of Georgia, Zviad Gamsakhurdia, from Grozny (Chechen Republic) to Tbilisi and renaming a major road in the capital after Gamsakhurdia. He also released 32 Gamsakhurdia supporters (political prisoners) imprisoned by the Shevardnadze government in 1993–94.\nIn the first months of his presidency, Saakashvili faced a major political crisis in the southwestern Autonomous Republic of Adjara run by an authoritarian regional leader, Aslan Abashidze, who largely ignored the central Georgian government and was viewed by many as a pro-Russian politician. The crisis threatened to develop into an armed confrontation, but Saakashvili's government managed to resolve the conflict peacefully, forcing Abashidze to resign on 6 May 2004. Success in Adjara encouraged the new president to intensify his efforts towards bringing the breakaway South Ossetia back under the Georgian jurisdiction. The separatist authorities responded with intense militarization in the region, that led to armed clashes in August 2004. A stalemate ensued, and despite a new peace plan proposed by the Georgian government in 2005, the conflict remains unresolved. In late July 2006, Saakashvili's government managed to deal successfully with another major crisis, this time in Abkhazia's Kodori Gorge where Georgia's police forces disarmed a defiant militia led by a local warlord Emzar Kvitsiani.\n\nIn his foreign policy, Saakashvili maintained close ties with the U.S., as well as other NATO countries, and remains one of the key partners of the GUAM organisation. The Saakashvili-led Rose Revolution has been described by the White House as one of the most powerful movements in the modern history that has inspired others to seek freedom.\n\nAt the time Saakashvili took office, Georgia suffered from a stagnant economy, widespread corruption by police and state officials to the point where bribery was needed for any kind of commercial transaction, high crime rates, and severe infrastructure problems, including widespread power outages, and schools and medical facilities falling into disrepair. Saakashvili set out on a massive reform program. He systematically fired politicians, public officials, and police officers suspected of corruption and significantly raised the salaries of state employees to the point where they could depend on their salaries rather than bribes for a living. Many oligarchs who had dominated the economy were arrested, with most agreeing to pay massive fines into the state budget in exchange for their freedom. Saakashvili reformed the economy by cutting red tape which had made business difficult, courting foreign investment, simplifying the tax code, launching a privatization campaign, and tackling widespread tax evasion. Due to the establishment of a functioning taxation and customs infrastructure, the state budget increased by 300% within three years. The government massively upgraded infrastructure and public services. In particular, water and power infrastructure was improved to the point where it functioned effectively, schools and hospitals were renovated, more roads were laid, and new housing developments were built.\n\nAs a result, the rate of corruption in the country was drastically reduced and the business environment was improved significantly. The economy began growing and the standard of living rose. Georgia's ranking in the Corruption Perceptions Index by Transparency International improved dramatically from rank 133 in 2004 to 67 in 2008 and further to 51 in 2012, surpassing several EU countries. The World Bank named Georgia as the leading economic reformer in the world, and the country ranked 8th in terms of \"ease of doing business\"- while most of the country's neighbors are ranked somewhere in the hundreds. The World Bank noted a significant improvement in living conditions in Georgia, reporting that \"Georgia's transformation since 2003 has been remarkable. The lights are on, the streets are safe, and public services are corruption free.\" Doing Business report founder Simeon Djankov has given Georgia as an example to other reformers during the annual Reformer Awards.\n\nUnder Saakashvili's term, Georgia became involved in international market transactions to a small extent, and in 2007 Bank of Georgia sold bonds at premium, when $200m five-year bond was priced with a coupon of 9 per cent at par, or 100 per cent of face value, after initially being priced at 9.5 per cent and investors pushed orders up to $600m.\n\nIn 2009 he introduced The Economic Liberty Act of Georgia, which was adopted by the Parliament of Georgia in 2011. The Act restricted the state's ability to interfere in the economy, and was aimed at reducing the state expenses and debt by 30% and 60%, respectively. It also explicitly prohibited the Government from changing taxes without a popular referendum on rates and structure.\n\nDue to his government's economic reforms, Georgia's economy grew 70% between 2003 and 2013, and per capita income roughly tripled. However, poverty only marginally declined. At the end of his second term, about a quarter of the population was still poor, and unemployment was at 15%.\n\nThe majority of criticism leveled at Saakashvili's administration was over his handling of the justice system. He was accused of giving police a free hand to fight corruption as part of his anti-corruption drive to the point where they could mistreat suspects. Under his administration, the prison population soared, and the judiciary allegedly became more harsh. It was described \"an extremely punitive and abusive criminal justice, law-and-order system, which ended up with the highest per capita prison population in Europe – even higher than in Russia – in which torture became absolutely routine... Almost zero acquittal cases in criminal trials, mass surveillance, telephone tapping, and a lot of pressure put on businessmen, including intimidation, so they contribute to government projects.\"\n\nOn 27 March 2006 the government announced that it had prevented a nationwide prison riot plotted by criminal kingpins. The police operation ended with the deaths of 7 inmates and at least 17 injuries. While the opposition cast doubts over the official version and demanded an independent investigation, the ruling party was able to vote down such initiatives.\n\nDespite this, Saakashvili's government also eased the legal system in some respects. His government decriminalized libel and pushed through legislation upholding freedom of speech, although he was accused of stifling the media and using the judicial system to go after his political opponents in spite of this. In December 2006, Saakashvili signed a constitutional amendment completely abolishing the death penalty in law.\n\nSaakashvili's government massively increased military spending to modernize the Georgian Armed Forces, which were small and poorly equipped and trained at the time he entered office. By 2007, the military budget had increased twenty-fold since 1999. New weapons and vehicles were purchased, military salaries were raised, new bases were built, and Georgian soldiers engaged in joint training exercises with the US military.\n\nWhen Saakashvili took office, the university entrance system was bribe-based, with a university spot costing up to $50,000 in 2003. Saakashvili's government introduced a common entrance exam, replacing the bribe-based system with a merit-based one. The quality of university education also improved. Despite this, Saakashvili was accused of failing to reform the quality of primary and secondary-level school education, which reportedly remained low at the end of his term in office.\n\nAfter Georgian independence, the government found that its Soviet-style centralized healthcare system was underfunded and failing. State-run centralized medical facilities were typically inefficient and in need of renovation and technological upgrades. As a result, the government privatized almost all public hospitals and clinics, and the insurance system was deregulated, with private insurance companies able to offer coverage. Only a few specialized facilities for mental health and infectious diseases remained in government hands, and the state continued to provide health insurance for those below the poverty line, whose insurance was paid for by public funds and provided by private insurers, and some civil servants, amounting to about 40% of the population. As a result, the level of healthcare greatly improved, with new hospitals and clinics beginning to replace older facilities. However, a portion of the population was uninsured, as it could not afford private insurance and did not qualify for public insurance.\n\nSaakashvili sees membership of the NATO as a premise of stability for Georgia and offered an intensified dialogue with the \"de facto\" Abkhaz and Ossetian authorities. Until the 2008 South Ossetia war, a diplomatic solution was thought to be possible. Saakashvili's administration doubled the number of its troops in Iraq, making Georgia one of the biggest supporters of Coalition Forces, and keeping its troops in Kosovo and Afghanistan to \"contribute to what it describes as global security\".\n\nSaakashvili's government maintains diplomatic relations with other Caucasian states and Eastern European countries, such as Armenia, Azerbaijan, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Turkey and Ukraine. In 2004, Saakashvili visited Israel to attend the official opening of the Modern Energy Problems Research Center, and Dr. Brenda Schaffer, the director of the center, described Saakashvili as the Nelson Mandela of the 21st century. In August of the same year, Saakashvili, who holds an honorary doctorate from the University of Haifa, travelled to Israel to attend the opening of the official Week of Georgian-Jewish Friendship, held under the auspices of the Georgian President, for which the Jewish leaders were invited as honoured guests.\n\nRelations with the United States are good, but are complicated by Saakashvili's \"volatile\" behaviour. Former and current U.S. officials characterize the Georgian president as \"difficult to manage\". They criticize his \"risky moves\", moves that have often \"caught the U.S. unprepared\" while leaving it \"exposed diplomatically\".\n\nSaakashvili's ties with the U.S. go back to 1991 (see Early life and career). Biographies of Thomas Jefferson and John F. Kennedy can be found in his office, next to biographies of Joseph Stalin and Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and books on war. Seeking U.S. support, Saakashvili went outside the United States Department of State and established contacts with Sen. John McCain and forces seeking NATO expansion.\n\nSaakashvili believes that the long-term priority for the country is to advance its membership in the European Community and during a meeting with Javier Solana, he said that in contrast with new and old European states, Georgia is an Ancient European state.\n\nOn 10 May 2005, while U.S. President George W. Bush was giving a speech in Tbilisi's Freedom Square, Vladimir Arutyunian threw a live hand grenade at where Saakashvili and Bush were sitting. It landed in the crowd about from the podium after hitting a girl and did not detonate. Arutyunian was arrested in July of that year, but before his capture, he managed to kill one law enforcement agent. He was convicted of the attempted assassinations of Saakashvili and Bush and the murder of the agent, and given a life sentence.\n\nThe late Georgian businessman Badri Patarkatsishvili claimed that pressure had been exerted on his financial interests after Imedi Television broadcast several accusations against officials. On 25 October 2007, former defense minister Irakli Okruashvili accused the president of planning Patarkatsishvili's murder. Okruashvili was detained two days later on charges of extortion, money laundering, and abuse of office. However, in a videotaped confession released by the General Prosecutor's Office on 8 October 2007, in which Okruashvili pleaded guilty to large-scale bribery through extortion and negligence while serving as minister, he retracted his accusations against the president and said that he did so to gain some political benefit and that Badri Patarkatsishvili told him to do so. Okruashvili's lawyer and other opposition leaders said his retraction had been made under duress.\n\nGeorgia faced the worst crisis since the Rose Revolution. A series of anti-government demonstration were sparked, in October, by accusations of murders and corruption levelled by Irakli Okruashvili, Saakashvili's erstwhile associate and former member of his government, against the president and his allies. The protests climaxed early in November 2007, and involved several opposition groups and the influential media tycoon Badri Patarkatsishvili. Although the demonstrations rapidly went downhill, the government's decision to use police force against the remaining protesters evolved into clashes in the streets of Tbilisi on 7 November. The declaration of state of emergency by the president (7–16 November) and the restriction imposed on some mass media sources led to harsh criticism of the Saakashvili government both in the country and abroad. Human Rights Watch criticised the Georgian government for using \"excessive\" force against protesters in November and International Crisis Group warned of growing authoritarianism.\n\nPatarkatsishvili's opposition television station Imedi was shut down in November 2007 after the authorities accused it of complicity with the plot to overthrow the elected government. The channel resumed broadcasts a few weeks after the incident, but did not cover news or talk shows until after the election. Subsequently, the station was sold to supporters of the Saakashvili government and some Georgian journalists have called for the station to be handed back.\n\nOn 8 November 2007, President Saakashvili announced a compromise solution to hold early presidential elections for 5 January 2008. He also proposed to hold a plebiscite in parallel to snap presidential elections about when to hold parliamentary polls – in spring as pushed for by the opposition parties, or in late 2008. Several concessions in the election code were also made to the opposition.\n\nOn 23 November 2007, the ruling United National Movement party officially nominated Saakashvili as its candidate for the upcoming elections. Pursuant to the Constitution of Georgia, Saakashvili resigned on 25 November to launch his pre-election campaign for early presidential polls.\n\nSaakashvili came under criticism for dispersing with rubber bullets and tear gas hundreds of protesters who were blocking Tbilisi's main transport artery, Rustaveli Avenue. The demonstrations started as protest against the arrest of two well-known sportsmen accused of blackmail but soon grew into a demonstration against the central authorities. 25 people were arrested including five members of opposition parties. Another series of demonstrations forced Saakashvili to reset the pre-scheduled presidential elections to 5 January 2008.\n\nOn 5 January 2008, an early presidential election was held nationwide, with the exception of the highland village of Shatili, where the polling station was not opened due to high levels of snowfall. In a televised address, President Saakashvili had proposed to hold the election earlier than called for by the Georgian constitution in order to resolve the political tension surrounding opposition-led demonstrations, their suppression by the government on 7 November 2007, and the closure of the most popular opposition television network, Imedi. Saakashvili said in his presidential address that \"these elections will be held according to our timing, and not that of our ill-wishers.\"\n\nSaakashvili publicly announced his plans of modernising the Cabinet of Georgia well before Georgian presidential elections. Shortly after being re-elected, the president formally re-appointed the Prime Minister of Georgia Lado Gurgenidze and asked him to present a renewed cabinet to the Parliament of Georgia for final approval.\n\nGurgenidze changed most ministers, leaving Ivane Merabishvili, controversial Minister for Home Affairs, Defence Minister David Kezerashvili and Minister of Finance Nika Gilauri on their former positions. Gia Nodia was appointed as the Minister of Education and Science. Zaza Gamcemlidze, former director of Tbilisi Botanic Garden, took over the position of the Minister of Natural Resources and Nature Protection. Famous archaeologist, and already the eldest minister in the cabinet, Iulon Gagoshidze was appointed on a newly designated position of the Minister of State for Diasporas.\n\nParliamentary elections held during Saakashvili's second term were condemned by the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe election monitoring mission for being marred by ballot stuffing, violence against opposition campaigners, uncritical coverage of the president and his party from the state-controlled media, and public officials openly campaigning for the president's party.\n\nOn 28 October 2008, Mikheil Saakashvili proposed Grigol Mgaloblishvili, Georgian Ambassador to Turkey for the premiership. According to the President, Gurgenidze had initially agreed to serve only for a year and that Georgia was facing new challenges which needed new approach. The Parliament of Georgia approved Mgaloblishvili as the premier on 1 November 2008.\n\nIn 2009 Georgian demonstrations, 2011 Georgian protests and 2012 Georgian protests against Saakashvili spread across Georgia.\n\nOn 22 February 2008 Saakashvili held an official meeting with the President of Russia Vladimir Putin, in his residence in Novo-Ogaryovo. The presidents discussed the issues of aviation regulations between the two countries. This was Putin's last meeting in his second term as the President of Russia, being succeeded by Dimitry Medvedev shortly thereafter.\n\nHowever, after Saakashvili ordered a late night sneak attack on 8-8-8, killing dozens of civilians and Russian Military peacekeepers, all while the world was focused on the Beijing Olympics, Russian military forces intervened on the side of the South Ossetian separatists in response to the Georgian attack on Tskhinvali and invaded Gori in Shida Kartli. The two counterparts were led to a ceasefire agreement and a six-point peace plan, due to the French President's mediation. On 26 August the Russian president, Dmitry Medvedev, signed a decree recognizing Abkhazia and South Ossetia as independent states. On 26 August 2008, in response to Russia's recognition of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, Deputy Foreign Minister Grigol Vashadze announced that Georgia had broken diplomatic relations with Russia.\n\nRussian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev held Saakashvili responsible for the Russo-Georgian War, and states that Saakashvili is responsible for the collapse of the Georgian state. Medvedev has stated \"(a)s soon as Georgia gets a new leader we will have every opportunity to restore ties.\"\n\nThe Georgian military's capabilities were severely damaged by the war, and Saakashvili's government moved to rebuild them, massively increasing military spending. By late 2010, the Georgian military reached a strength greater than that of pre-war levels, after which military spending declined again. Although the Georgian government bought large amounts of arms and military equipment from abroad, it also began to seriously invest in an indigenous military industry. Starting in 2010, Georgia began to manufacture its own line of armored vehicles, artillery systems, small arms, and unmanned aerial vehicles.\n\nThe pressure against Saakashvili intensified in 2009, when the opposition launched mass demonstrations against Saakashvili's rule. On 5 May 2009, Georgian police said large-scale disorders were planned in Georgia of which the failed army mutiny was part. According to the police, Saakashvili's assassination had also been plotted. Opposition figures dispute the claim of an attempted mutiny and instead say that troops refused an illegal order to use force against opposition demonstrators.\n\nIn September 2012, during Saakashvili's presidency, a video taken inside Tbilisi prison Gldani #8 showing prisoners being beaten and sodomized was released to the public. Georgian Minister of Correction, Probation and Legal Assistance Khatuna Kalmakhelidze was forced to resign over the scandal. Human rights organizations including the U.N. Office for the High Commissioner for Human Rights issued a statement expressing outrage over the video.\n\nOn 2 October 2012, Saakashvili admitted defeat in Georgia's parliamentary election against Bidzina Ivanishvili in the election the day before. He was barred from seeking a third term in the 2013 presidential election. Saakashvili left Georgia shortly after the election.\n\nIn December 2013, Saakashvili accepted the position of lecturer and senior statesman at Tufts University in the United States.\n\nOn 23 March 2014, when Saakashvili was summoned to give testimony to the main prosecutor's office of Georgia, the office planned to interrogate him about the pardoning in 2008 of four high-ranking officials of the Department of Constitutional Security of the Georgian Ministry of Internal Affairs – Gia Alania, Avtandil Aptsiauri, Alexander Gachava and Mikhail Bibiluridze, The case of the murder of bank employee Sandro Girgvliani on 28 January 2006, as well as for unlawful actions against his friend Levan Bukhaidze. Also – as a witness, for nine criminal cases, including the death of the Prime Minister of Georgia Zurab Zhvania in 2005.\n\nOn 28 July 2014, criminal charges were filed by the Georgian prosecutor's office against Saakashvili over allegedly \"exceeding official powers\" during the 2007 Georgian demonstrations, as well as a police raid on and \"seizure\" of Imedi TV and other assets owned by the late tycoon Badri Patarkatsishvili. Saakashvili, then in Hungary, responded by accusing the Georgian authorities of political score-settling and attempts at appeasing Russia. The United States expressed concerns over the case and warned that \"the legal system should not be used as a tool of political retribution\". The European Union stated that it took \"note with concern\" and it will \"closely monitor these and other legal proceedings against members of the former government and current opposition in Georgia\".\n\nOn 2 August 2014, Tbilisi City Court ordered pre-trial detention in absentia for Saakashvili and the co-accused Zurab Adeishvili (chief prosecutor in 2007) and Davit Kezerashvili (defense minister in 2007), with a preliminary hearing appointed for September 2014.\n\nOn 13 August 2014, Saakashvili was charged with embezzling budget funds. On 14 August, an internal search was declared, and on 31 August, the procedure for declaring an international search was launched. On 1 August 2015, Interpol refused to declare Mikheil Saakashvili on the international wanted list, as the Georgian authorities demanded. In September, the property of the Saakashvili family was seized. His personal bank accounts in Georgia were also seized.\n\nIn March 2015, Ukraine denied a Georgian request to extradite Saakashvili, as it deemed the criminal cases against him politically motivated.\n\nSaakashvili stated on 1 June 2015 that he had given up (three days before) Georgian citizenship to avoid \"guaranteed imprisonment\" in Georgia. The Constitution of Ukraine forbids the extradition of Ukrainians to other states.\n\nOn 8 August 2017, the Georgian General Prosecutor's Office claimed Saakashvili would face up to 11 years of imprisonment (charges included the spending of public funding on personal needs, abuse of power during the dispersal of a demonstration on 7 November 2007, the beating of former MP Valery Gelashvili and the raid of Imedi TV).\n\nOn 18 August 2017, Georgia requested Ukraine to extradite Saakashvili. On 5 September, the Ukrainian authorities confirmed that they had received the request from Georgia.\n\nSaakashvili energetically supported Ukraine's Euromaidan movement and its 2014 Ukrainian revolution. On 7 March 2014, Saakashvili authored an op-ed piece entitled \"When Putin invaded my country\", in the context of the turmoil in Ukraine after the ouster on 22 February of President Viktor Yanukovich and before the 16 March referendum in the 2014 Crimean crisis.\n\nIn September 2014 Saakashvili moved to Williamsburg, Brooklyn.\n\nOn 13 February 2015, Saakashvili was appointed by the President of Ukraine Petro Poroshenko as head of the International Advisory Council on Reforms—an advisory body whose main task is working out proposals and recommendations for implementation and introduction of reforms in Ukraine based on best international practices. On 30 May 2015, Poroshenko appointed Saakashvili Governor of Odessa Oblast (region). On the previous day, 29 May 2015, he was granted Ukrainian citizenship. A month before this appointment, Saakashvili had stated that he had turned down the post of First Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine because in order to fulfill that post, he would have had to become a Ukrainian citizen and renounce his Georgian citizenship. Saakashvili stated on 1 June 2015 that he had now changed his mind to avoid \"guaranteed imprisonment\" in Georgia and to defend Georgian interest through his governorship in Odessa. Also on 1 June 2015, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia stated that the appointment of Saakashvili would not have a negative impact on the relations between Georgia and Ukraine. But in reality, after this appointment, relations between the two countries soured. On 4 December 2015, Saakashvili was stripped of his Georgian citizenship. According to him, this was done to prevent him from leading the United National Movement in the 2016 Georgian parliamentary election.\n\nA poll by Sociological group \"RATING\" showed that in October 2015, Saakashvili was the most popular politician in Ukraine (43% viewed him positively).\n\nIn December 2015, Saakashvili started an anti-corruption NGO \"Movement for Purification\". Among rumours that this NGO would be transformed into a political force, Saakashvili stated he did not have the intention to create a new political party. In the autumn of 2015, informal attempts and negotiations were launched to form a political party around Saakashvili with members of the parliamentary group Interfactional Union \"Eurooptimists\", Democratic Alliance and possibly Self Reliance, but this project collapsed in June 2016.\n\nSaakashvili submitted his resignation as Governor on 7 November 2016 citing corruption in Ukraine as a main reason. In a press conference this same day, he claimed that President Poroshenko personally supported \"corruption clans in the Odessa region\" and that the \"Odessa region is being handed over not only to corrupt people, but also to enemies of Ukraine.\" On 9 November 2016, President Poroshenko accepted Saakashvili's resignation (as Governor) and dismissed him as his freelance adviser.\n\nOn 11 November 2016 Saakashvili announced his goal to create a new political party called \"Movement of New Forces\" and that \"our goal is early parliamentary elections to be carried out as quickly as possible in the shortest possible time.\" Late February 2017 the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine registered Movement of New Forces officially as a political party.\n\nAccording to a poll by Sociological group \"RATING\" 18% viewed Saakashvili positively in April 2017.\n\nIn Ukraine only Ukrainian citizens can lead political parties or be elected to its parliament.\n\nOn 26 July 2017 President Poroshenko issued a decree stripping Saakashvili of his Ukrainian citizenship, but without a reason for his doing so being stated. Ukraine's migration service said in a statement that \"according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the president takes decisions on who is stripped of Ukrainian citizenship based on the conclusions of the citizenship commission\". Saakashvili, in response to his being stripped of citizenship, replied: \"I have only one citizenship, that of Ukraine, and I will not be deprived of it! Now there is an attempt under way to force me to become a refugee. This will not happen! I will fight for my legal right to return to Ukraine!\" A Ukrainian legislator from the Petro Poroshenko Bloc faction in parliament, Serhiy Leshchenko, said that Saakashvili was (when Poroshenko issued his decree) in the United States, but that if he sought to return to Ukraine, he would face extradition to Georgia to face charges for alleged crimes that occurred during his presidency there. According to \"The Economist\", most observers saw Poroshenko's stripping Saakashvili of his citizenship \"simply as the sidelining of a political rival\" (at the time political polls gave Saakashvili's political party Movement of New Forces around 2% in a hypothetical early election). On 28 July (2017) Saakashvili told \"Newshour\" he wanted to return to Ukraine to \"get rid of the old corrupt elite\" there.\n\nOn 4 August Saakashvili appeared in Poland; he left the country 4 days later travelling to Lithuania claiming \"I'll be travelling across Europe.\" Saakashvili announced on 16 August that he will return to Ukraine on 10 September (2017) through the Krakovets checkpoint and urged people to meet him at the checkpoint.\n\nOn 10 September the train on which Saakashvili tried to enter Ukraine was held at a railway station in Przemysl, Poland. Then, on the same day, he traveled by bus to the Medyka-Shehyni border crossing, where he was allowed to pass through a Polish checkpoint on the border with Ukraine, but then temporarily blocked from reaching the Ukrainian checkpoint by a line of border guards standing arm-in-arm. Finally, a crowd broke through from the Ukrainian side and took Saakashvili into Ukraine. According to Ukraine's criminal code, this offence carries a prison sentence of up to three years, six months' detention or a fine of up to fifty minimum salary payments. On 12 September (in the Leopolis Hotel in Lviv) the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine acquainted Saakashvili with the protocol on the administrative violation of \"Illegal crossing or attempted illegal crossing of the state border of Ukraine.\"\n\nAt a rally in the western Ukrainian city of Chernivtsi on 13 September, Saakashvili announced that he would return to Kyiv on 19 September after travelling to several other cities to rally support.\n\nOn 22 September, the Mostysky District Court of the Lviv region found Saakashvili guilty of illegally crossing the state border. Under the court's decision, he must pay a fine of 200 non-taxable minimums (3400 UAH).\n\nOn 5 December 2017, Saakashvili (who was leading anti-government protests at the time) was temporarily detained by Ukraine's Security Service on the roof of his apartment building in central Kyiv and his apartment was searched. He was freed from police by a large group of protesters. Saakashvili's lawyer reported that the politician had been detained for attempting to overthrow Ukraine's constitutional system, whilst the SBU accused Saakashvili of receiving financing from a \"criminal group\" linked to ousted (during the 2014 Ukrainian revolution) Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych. On 8 December General Prosecutor of Ukraine Yuriy Lutsenko announced that National Police officers had found the location of Saakashvili, detained him and placed him in a temporary detention center. The following day Saakashvili began an indefinite hunger strike, claiming to oppose any attempts at compulsory feeding. On 11 December a Ukrainian court released him from detention.\n\nOn 12 February 2018 Saakashvili was deported to Poland. The Ukrainian border service stated \"This person was on Ukrainian territory illegally and therefore, in compliance with all legal procedures, he was returned to the country from where he arrived\". Saakashvili was subsequently banned from entering Ukraine until 2021 by the Ukrainian border service. Saakashvili claimed that his Georgian bodyguards and supporters had in recent months been kidnapped, tortured and deported to Georgia. On 14 February 2018, Saakashvili showed up in the Netherlands, having been granted permanent residency there on the basis of family reunification.\n\nSaakashvili is married to Dutch linguist Sandra Roelofs, whom he met in Strasbourg in 1993. The couple have two sons, Eduard and Nikoloz.\n\nApart from his native Georgian, Saakashvili speaks fluent English, French, Russian and Ukrainian, and has some command of Ossetian and Spanish.\n\nSome non-Georgian sources spell Saakashvili's first name via the Russian version of the name Mikhail. In Georgia, he is commonly known as Misha, a hypocorism for Mikheil.\n\nIn the 2010 study \"Competitive Authoritarianism: Hybrid Regimes After the Cold War\", political scientists Steven Levitsky and Lucan A. Way cite various media and human rights reports to describe Saakashvili's Georgia as a \"competitive authoritarian\" (i.e., a formally democratic but essentially non-democratic) state.\n\nSaakashvili's government has been lauded for making \"striking improvements\" in the fight against corruption. In addition, the U.S. State Department noted that during 2005 \"the government amended several laws and increased the amount of investigations and prosecutions reducing the amount of abuse and ill-treatment in pre-trial detention facilities\". The status of religious freedom also improved due to increased investigation and prosecution of those harassing followers of non-traditional faiths.\n\nThe scrupulousness of Patarkatsishvili's political opposition toward the Georgian president has been questioned by the Jamestown Foundation's political analyst Vladimir Socor who attributed the businessman's discontent to Saakashvili's anti-corruption reforms, which \"had severely curtailed Patarkatsishvili's scope for doing business in his accustomed, post-Soviet 1990s-style ways.\" Patarkatsishvili—who had fled the Russian authorities after allegations of fraud—was called \"a state criminal\" by Saakashvili, who accused him of treason while refusing to admit to any of his accusations.\n\nSaakashvili was portrayed by Cuban-American Hollywood actor Andy García in the 2010 Hollywood film \"5 Days of War\" by Finnish-American film director Renny Harlin. The film tells the story of Saakashvili and the events during the Russo-Georgian War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1625787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1625787", "title": "Monroe–Pinkney Treaty", "text": "Monroe–Pinkney Treaty\n\nThe Monroe–Pinkney Treaty of 1806 was a treaty drawn up by diplomats of the United States and Britain as a renewal of the Jay Treaty of 1795. It was rejected by President Thomas Jefferson and never took effect. The treaty was negotiated by minister to England James Monroe and his associate William Pinkney on behalf of the administration of President Thomas Jefferson, and Lord Holland and Lord Auckland on behalf of the \"Ministry of All the Talents\" government headed by Lord Grenville.\n\nFor the Americans, the goal of the treaty was to make the British abandon the practice of impressing sailors from American ships, as well as to address the neutral trading rights of American vessels in the ongoing Napoleonic Wars, among other commercial concerns. However, the British were short of manpower for the Royal Navy and believed that many British deserters were serving on American ships. In the desperate war against Napoleon, the British believed that they could not afford to abandon impressment: offending the Americans was seen as a much lesser evil than losing to Napoleon. Therefore, no concessions on the issue of impressment were made.\n\nThe negotiations were begun on 27 August 1806, and the treaty was signed on 31 December, 1806. President Jefferson received the treaty in March 1807, but was disappointed and refused to submit it to the Senate for ratification. This failure to resolve differences over the issue of impressment and neutral trading rights contributed to the coming of the War of 1812.\n\n"}
{"id": "43780793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43780793", "title": "Nigerian Copyright Commission", "text": "Nigerian Copyright Commission\n\nThe Nigerian Copyright Commission is the highest body regulating, advising, and monitoring matters of copyright law in Nigeria, per Decree No. 61 of 1970 in the Nigerian Constitution.\n\n"}
{"id": "34517307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34517307", "title": "Nimz v Freie und Hansestadt Hamburg", "text": "Nimz v Freie und Hansestadt Hamburg\n\nNimz v Freie und Hansestadt Hamburg (1991) C-184/89 is an EU labour law case, which held that a justification that part-time employees could be paid less, since full-time employees could acquire skills quicker, was doubtful.\n\nHelga Nimz worked part-time (under three quarters of full-time). She was paid less. The town council argued that full-time employees acquire ability and skill faster and should therefore be paid more.\n\nECJ held that it was unlikely that the justifications offered by the Hamburg council could be valid.\n"}
{"id": "42825737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42825737", "title": "Nominee trust", "text": "Nominee trust\n\nA nominee trust is an arrangement whereby one or more persons appoint a \"trustee\" to be listed on legal title, or other documents, on their behalf. The arrangement is simple and passive, the trustee is to do nothing except what they are directed to do by the beneficiaries. Technically it is not a trust but an agency arrangement, although it has been characterized as a hybrid between a traditional trust and an agency relationship. One use of the nominee trust is to avoid reporting the ownership of real estate on the public record. The deed, or other filed document lists the trustee, but not the undisclosed principals. Another use is to facilitate transfer of real property without involving the county recorder.\n\nUnlike a trust, the trustee does not have legal title, which remains in the \"beneficiaries\". Therefore, the trustee does not file a tax return with regard to income on trust property, as they would in an actual trust. The nominee trust is also an exception to the general rule that the capacity of a trustee is separate from the capacity of an agent. The common law may apply principles of the law of bailment to the nominee trust in some instances. The trustee is an agent of the beneficiaries who merely follows their specific directions. For bankruptcy purposes, the directed agency feature of a nominee trust prevents the trust itself from being a debtor-person. Therefore, a nominee trust cannot declare bankruptcy. Debts contracted by the trustee in his trustee capacity are debts of the beneficiaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "22413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22413", "title": "Oliver Cromwell", "text": "Oliver Cromwell\n\nOliver Cromwell (25 April 15993 September 1658) was an English military and political leader. He served as Lord Protector of the Commonwealth of England, Scotland, and Ireland from 1653 until his death, acting simultaneously as head of state and head of government of the new republic.\n\nCromwell was born into the middle gentry to a family descended from the sister of King Henry VIII's minister Thomas Cromwell. Little is known of the first 40 years of his life, as only four of his personal letters survive along with a summary of a speech that he delivered in 1628. He became an Independent Puritan after undergoing a religious conversion in the 1630s, taking a generally tolerant view towards the many Protestant sects of his period. He was an intensely religious man, a self-styled Puritan Moses, and he fervently believed that God was guiding his victories. He was elected Member of Parliament for Huntingdon in 1628 and for Cambridge in the Short (1640) and Long (1640–1649) Parliaments. He entered the English Civil Wars on the side of the \"Roundheads\" or Parliamentarians, nicknamed \"Old Ironsides\". He demonstrated his ability as a commander and was quickly promoted from leading a single cavalry troop to being one of the principal commanders of the New Model Army, playing an important role under General Sir Thomas Fairfax in the defeat of the Royalist (\"Cavalier\") 11th forces.\n\nCromwell was one of the signatories of King Charles I's death warrant in 1649, and he dominated the short-lived Commonwealth of England as a member of the Rump Parliament (1649–1653). He was selected to take command of the English campaign in Ireland in 1649–1650. Cromwell's forces defeated the Confederate and Royalist coalition in Ireland and occupied the country, bringing to an end the Irish Confederate Wars. During this period, a series of Penal Laws were passed against Roman Catholics (a significant minority in England and Scotland but the vast majority in Ireland), and a substantial amount of their land was confiscated. Cromwell also led a campaign against the Scottish army between 1650 and 1651.\n\nOn 20 April 1653, he dismissed the Rump Parliament by force, setting up a short-lived nominated assembly known as Barebone's Parliament before being invited by his fellow leaders to rule as Lord Protector of England (which included Wales at the time), Scotland, and Ireland from 16 December 1653. As a ruler, he executed an aggressive and effective foreign policy. He died from natural causes in 1658 and was buried in Westminster Abbey. The Royalists returned to power along with King Charles II in 1660, and they had his corpse dug up, hung in chains, and beheaded.\n\nCromwell is one of the most controversial figures in the history of the British Isles, considered a regicidal dictator by historians such as David Sharp, a military dictator by Winston Churchill, a hero of liberty by John Milton, Thomas Carlyle, and Samuel Rawson Gardiner, and a revolutionary bourgeois by Leon Trotsky. His tolerance of Protestant sects did not extend to Catholics; his measures against them in Ireland have been characterised by some as genocidal or near-genocidal, and his record is harshly criticised in Ireland. He was selected as one of the ten greatest Britons of all time in a 2002 BBC poll.\n\nCromwell was born in Huntingdon on 25 April 1599 to Robert Cromwell and Elizabeth Steward. The family's estate derived from Oliver's great-grandfather Morgan ap William, a brewer from Glamorgan who settled at Putney in London, and married Katherine Cromwell (born 1482), the sister of Thomas Cromwell, the famous chief minister to Henry VIII. The Cromwell family acquired considerable wealth by taking over monastery property during the Reformation. Morgan ap William was a son of William ap Yevan of Wales. The family line continued through Richard Williams (alias Cromwell), (c. 1500–1544), Henry Williams (alias Cromwell), (c. 1524 – 6 January 1604), then to Oliver's father Robert Cromwell (c. 1560–1617), who married Elizabeth Steward (c. 1564 – 1654), probably in 1591. They had ten children, but Oliver, the fifth child, was the only boy to survive infancy.\n\nCromwell's paternal grandfather Sir Henry Williams was one of the two wealthiest landowners in Huntingdonshire. Cromwell's father Robert was of modest means but still a part of the gentry class. As a younger son with many siblings, Robert inherited only a house at Huntingdon and a small amount of land. This land would have generated an income of up to £300 a year, near the bottom of the range of gentry incomes. Cromwell himself in 1654 said, \"I was by birth a gentleman, living neither in considerable height, nor yet in obscurity\".\n\nCromwell was baptised on 29 April 1599 at St John's Church, and attended Huntingdon Grammar School. He went on to study at Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge, then a recently founded college with a strong Puritan ethos. He left in June 1617 without taking a degree, immediately after the death of his father. Early biographers claim that he then attended Lincoln's Inn, but the Inn's archives retain no record of him. Antonia Fraser concludes that it was likely that he did train at one of the London Inns of Court during this time. His grandfather, his father, and two of his uncles had attended Lincoln's Inn, and Cromwell sent his son Richard there in 1647.\n\nCromwell probably returned home to Huntingdon after his father's death. As his mother was widowed, and his seven sisters unmarried, he would have been needed at home to help his family.\n\nOn 22 August 1620 at St Giles-without-Cripplegate, Fore Street, London, Cromwell married Elizabeth Bourchier (1598–1665). Elizabeth's father, Sir James Bourchier, was a London leather merchant who owned extensive lands in Essex and had strong connections with Puritan gentry families there. The marriage brought Cromwell into contact with Oliver St John and with leading members of the London merchant community, and behind them the influence of the Earls of Warwick and Holland. A place in this influential network would prove crucial to Cromwell's military and political career. The couple had nine children:\n\nLittle evidence exists of Cromwell's religion at this stage. His letter in 1626 to Henry Downhall, an Arminian minister, suggests that Cromwell had yet to be influenced by radical Puritanism. However, there is evidence that Cromwell went through a period of personal crisis during the late 1620s and early 1630s. In 1628 he was elected to Parliament from the Huntingdonshire county town of Huntingdon. Later that year, he sought treatment for a variety of physical and emotional ailments, including \"valde melancholicus\" (depression), from the Swiss-born London doctor Théodore de Mayerne. In 1629 he was caught up in a dispute among the gentry of Huntingdon over a new charter for the town, as a result of which he was called before the Privy Council in 1630.\n\nIn 1631 Cromwell sold most of his properties in Huntingdon—probably as a result of the dispute—and moved to a farmstead in nearby St Ives (then in Huntingdonshire, now in Cambridgeshire). This signified a major step down in society compared with his previous position, and seems to have had a significant emotional and spiritual impact. A 1638 letter survives from Cromwell to his cousin, the wife of Oliver St John, and gives an account of his spiritual awakening. The letter outlines how, having been \"the chief of sinners\", Cromwell had been called to be among \"the congregation of the firstborn\". The language of this letter, which is saturated with biblical quotations and which represents Cromwell as having been saved from sin by God's mercy, places his faith firmly within the Independent beliefs that the Reformation had not gone far enough, that much of England was still living in sin, and that Catholic beliefs and practices needed to be fully removed from the church.\n\nAlong with his brother Henry, Cromwell had kept a smallholding of chickens and sheep, selling eggs and wool to support himself, his lifestyle resembling that of a yeoman farmer. In 1636 Cromwell inherited control of various properties in Ely from his uncle on his mother's side, and his uncle's job as tithe collector for Ely Cathedral. As a result, his income is likely to have risen to around £300–400 per year; by the end of the 1630s Cromwell had returned to the ranks of acknowledged gentry. He had become a committed Puritan and had established important family links to leading families in London and Essex.\n\nCromwell became the Member of Parliament for Huntingdon in the Parliament of 1628–1629, as a client of the Montagu family of Hinchingbrooke House. He made little impression: records for the Parliament show only one speech (against the Arminian Bishop Richard Neile), which was poorly received. After dissolving this Parliament, Charles I ruled without a Parliament for the next 11 years. When Charles faced the Scottish rebellion known as the Bishops' Wars, shortage of funds forced him to call a Parliament again in 1640. Cromwell was returned to this Parliament as member for Cambridge, but it lasted for only three weeks and became known as the Short Parliament. Cromwell moved his family from Ely to London in 1640.\n\nA second Parliament was called later the same year, and became known as the Long Parliament. Cromwell was again returned as member for Cambridge. As with the Parliament of 1628–29, it is likely that Cromwell owed his position to the patronage of others, which might explain why in the first week of the Parliament he was in charge of presenting a petition for the release of John Lilburne, who had become a Puritan cause célèbre after his arrest for importing religious tracts from the Netherlands. For the first two years of the Long Parliament Cromwell was linked to the godly group of aristocrats in the House of Lords and Members of the House of Commons with whom he had established familial and religious links in the 1630s, such as the Earls of Essex, Warwick and Bedford, Oliver St John and Viscount Saye and Sele. At this stage, the group had an agenda of reformation: the executive checked by regular parliaments, and the moderate extension of liberty of conscience. Cromwell appears to have taken a role in some of this group's political manoeuvres. In May 1641, for example, it was Cromwell who put forward the second reading of the Annual Parliaments Bill and later took a role in drafting the Root and Branch Bill for the abolition of episcopacy.\n\nFailure to resolve the issues before the Long Parliament led to armed conflict between Parliament and Charles I in late 1642, the beginning of the English Civil War. Before joining Parliament's forces Cromwell's only military experience was in the trained bands, the local county militia. He recruited a cavalry troop in Cambridgeshire after blocking a valuable shipment of silver plate from Cambridge colleges that was meant for the King. Cromwell and his troop then rode to, but arrived too late to take part in, the indecisive Battle of Edgehill on 23 October 1642. The troop was recruited to be a full regiment in the winter of 1642 and 1643, making up part of the Eastern Association under the Earl of Manchester. Cromwell gained experience in a number of successful actions in East Anglia in 1643, notably at the Battle of Gainsborough on 28 July. He was subsequently appointed governor of Ely and a colonel in the Eastern Association.\n\nBy the time of the Battle of Marston Moor in July 1644, Cromwell had risen to the rank of Lieutenant General of horse in Manchester's army. The success of his cavalry in breaking the ranks of the Royalist cavalry and then attacking their infantry from the rear at Marston Moor was a major factor in the Parliamentarian victory. Cromwell fought at the head of his troops in the battle and was slightly wounded in the neck, stepping away briefly to receive treatment during the battle but returning to help force the victory. After Cromwell's nephew was killed at Marston Moor he wrote a famous letter to his brother-in-law. Marston Moor secured the north of England for the Parliamentarians, but failed to end Royalist resistance.\n\nThe indecisive outcome of the Second Battle of Newbury in October meant that by the end of 1644 the war still showed no signs of ending. Cromwell's experience at Newbury, where Manchester had let the King's army slip out of an encircling manoeuvre, led to a serious dispute with Manchester, whom he believed to be less than enthusiastic in his conduct of the war. Manchester later accused Cromwell of recruiting men of \"low birth\" as officers in the army, to which he replied: \"If you choose godly honest men to be captains of horse, honest men will follow them ... I would rather have a plain russet-coated captain who knows what he fights for and loves what he knows than that which you call a gentleman and is nothing else\". At this time, Cromwell also fell into dispute with Major-General Lawrence Crawford, a Scottish Covenanter attached to Manchester's army, who objected to Cromwell's encouragement of unorthodox Independents and Anabaptists. He was also charged with familism by Scottish Presbyterian Samuel Rutherford in response to his letter to the House of Commons in 1645.\nPartly in response to the failure to capitalise on their victory at Marston Moor, Parliament passed the Self-Denying Ordinance in early 1645. This forced members of the House of Commons and the Lords, such as Manchester, to choose between civil office and military command. All of them—except Cromwell, whose commission was given continued extensions and was allowed to remain in parliament—chose to renounce their military positions. The Ordinance also decreed that the army be \"remodelled\" on a national basis, replacing the old county associations; Cromwell contributed significantly to these military reforms. In April 1645 the New Model Army finally took to the field, with Sir Thomas Fairfax in command and Cromwell as Lieutenant-General of cavalry and second-in-command.\n\nAt the critical Battle of Naseby in June 1645, the New Model Army smashed the King's major army. Cromwell led his wing with great success at Naseby, again routing the Royalist cavalry. At the Battle of Langport on 10 July, Cromwell participated in the defeat of the last sizeable Royalist field army. Naseby and Langport effectively ended the King's hopes of victory, and the subsequent Parliamentarian campaigns involved taking the remaining fortified Royalist positions in the west of England. In October 1645, Cromwell besieged and took the wealthy and formidable Catholic fortress Basing House, later to be accused of killing 100 of its 300-man Royalist garrison after its surrender. Cromwell also took part in successful sieges at Bridgwater, Sherborne, Bristol, Devizes, and Winchester, then spent the first half of 1646 mopping up resistance in Devon and Cornwall. Charles I surrendered to the Scots on 5 May 1646, effectively ending the First English Civil War. Cromwell and Fairfax took the formal surrender of the Royalists at Oxford in June 1646.\n\nCromwell had no formal training in military tactics, and followed the common practice of ranging his cavalry in three ranks and pressing forward, relying on impact rather than firepower. His strengths were an instinctive ability to lead and train his men, and his moral authority. In a war fought mostly by amateurs, these strengths were significant and are likely to have contributed to the discipline of his cavalry.\n\nCromwell introduced close-order cavalry formations, with troopers riding knee to knee; this was an innovation in England at the time, and was a major factor in his success. He kept his troops close together following skirmishes where they had gained superiority, rather than allowing them to chase opponents off the battlefield. This facilitated further engagements in short order, which allowed greater intensity and quick reaction to battle developments. This style of command was decisive at both Marston Moor and Naseby.\n\nIn February 1647 Cromwell suffered from an illness that kept him out of political life for over a month. By the time he had recovered, the Parliamentarians were split over the issue of the King. A majority in both Houses pushed for a settlement that would pay off the Scottish army, disband much of the New Model Army, and restore Charles I in return for a Presbyterian settlement of the Church. Cromwell rejected the Scottish model of Presbyterianism, which threatened to replace one authoritarian hierarchy with another. The New Model Army, radicalised by the failure of the Parliament to pay the wages it was owed, petitioned against these changes, but the Commons declared the petition unlawful. In May 1647 Cromwell was sent to the army's headquarters in Saffron Walden to negotiate with them, but failed to agree.\n\nIn June 1647, a troop of cavalry under Cornet George Joyce seized the King from Parliament's imprisonment. With the King now present, Cromwell was eager to find out what conditions the King would acquiesce to if his authority was restored. The King appeared to be willing to compromise, so Cromwell employed his son-in-law, Henry Ireton, to draw up proposals for a constitutional settlement. Proposals were drafted multiple times with different changes until finally the \"Heads of Proposals\" pleased Cromwell in principle and would allow for further negotiations. It was designed to check the powers of the executive, to set up regularly elected parliaments, and to restore a non-compulsory Episcopalian settlement.\n\nMany in the army, such as the Levellers led by John Lilburne, thought this was not enough and demanded full political equality for all men, leading to tense debates in Putney during the autumn of 1647 between Fairfax, Cromwell and Ireton on the one hand, and radical Levellers like Colonel Rainsborough on the other. The Putney Debates ultimately broke up without reaching a resolution.\n\nThe failure to conclude a political agreement with the King led eventually to the outbreak of the Second English Civil War in 1648, when the King tried to regain power by force of arms. Cromwell first put down a Royalist uprising in south Wales led by Rowland Laugharne, winning back Chepstow Castle on 25 May and six days later forcing the surrender of Tenby. The castle at Carmarthen was destroyed by burning. The much stronger castle at Pembroke, however, fell only after a siege of eight weeks. Cromwell dealt leniently with the ex-royalist soldiers, but less so with those who had previously been members of the parliamentary army, John Poyer eventually being executed in London after the drawing of lots.\n\nCromwell then marched north to deal with a pro-Royalist Scottish army (the Engagers) who had invaded England. At Preston, Cromwell, in sole command for the first time and with an army of 9,000, won a decisive victory against an army twice as large.\n\nDuring 1648, Cromwell's letters and speeches started to become heavily based on biblical imagery, many of them meditations on the meaning of particular passages. For example, after the battle of Preston, study of Psalms 17 and 105 led him to tell Parliament that \"they that are implacable and will not leave troubling the land may be speedily destroyed out of the land\". A letter to Oliver St John in September 1648 urged him to read Isaiah 8, in which the kingdom falls and only the godly survive. On four occasions in letters in 1648 he referred to the story of Gideon's defeat of the Midianites at Ain Harod. These letters suggest that it was Cromwell's faith, rather than a commitment to radical politics, coupled with Parliament's decision to engage in negotiations with the King at the Treaty of Newport, that convinced him that God had spoken against both the King and Parliament as lawful authorities. For Cromwell, the army was now God's chosen instrument. The episode shows Cromwell's firm belief in \"Providentialism\"—that God was actively directing the affairs of the world, through the actions of \"chosen people\" (whom God had \"provided\" for such purposes). Cromwell believed, during the Civil Wars, that he was one of these people, and he interpreted victories as indications of God's approval of his actions, and defeats as signs that God was directing him in another direction.\n\nIn December 1648, in an episode that became known as Pride's Purge, a troop of soldiers headed by Colonel Thomas Pride forcibly removed from the Long Parliament all those who were not supporters of the Grandees in the New Model Army and the Independents. Thus weakened, the remaining body of MPs, known as the Rump Parliament, agreed that Charles should be tried on a charge of treason. Cromwell was still in the north of England, dealing with Royalist resistance, when these events took place, but then returned to London. On the day after Pride's Purge, he became a determined supporter of those pushing for the King's trial and execution, believing that killing Charles was the only way to end the civil wars. Cromwell approved Thomas Brook's address to the House of Commons, which justified the trial and execution of the King on the basis of the Book of Numbers, chapter 35 and particularly verse 33 (\"The land cannot be cleansed of the blood that is shed therein, but by the blood of him that shed it.\").\n\nThe death warrant for Charles was eventually signed by 59 of the trying court's members, including Cromwell (who was the third to sign it). Though it was not unprecedented, execution of the King, or \"regicide\", was controversial, if for no other reason due to the doctrine of the divine right of kings. Thus, even after a trial, it was difficult to get ordinary men to go along with it: \"None of the officers charged with supervising the execution wanted to sign the order for the actual beheading, so they brought their dispute to Cromwell...Oliver seized a pen and scribbled out the order, and handed the pen to the second officer, Colonel Hacker who stooped to sign it. The execution could now proceed.\" Although Fairfax conspicuously refused to sign, Charles I was executed on 30 January 1649.\n\nAfter the execution of the King, a republic was declared, known as the \"Commonwealth of England\". The \"Rump Parliament\" exercised both executive and legislative powers, with a smaller Council of State also having some executive functions. Cromwell remained a member of the \"Rump\" and was appointed a member of the Council. In the early months after the execution of Charles I, Cromwell tried but failed to unite the original group of \"Royal Independents\" centred around St John and Saye and Sele, which had fractured during 1648. Cromwell had been connected to this group since before the outbreak of civil war in 1642 and had been closely associated with them during the 1640s. However, only St John was persuaded to retain his seat in Parliament. The Royalists, meanwhile, had regrouped in Ireland, having signed a treaty with the Irish known as \"Confederate Catholics\". In March, Cromwell was chosen by the Rump to command a campaign against them. Preparations for an invasion of Ireland occupied Cromwell in the subsequent months. In the latter part of the 1640s, Cromwell came across political dissidence in the \"New Model Army\". The \"Leveller\" or \"Agitator\" movement was a political movement that emphasised popular sovereignty, extended suffrage, equality before the law, and religious tolerance. These sentiments were expressed in the manifesto \"Agreement of the People\" in 1647. Cromwell and the rest of the \"Grandees\" disagreed with these sentiments in that they gave too much freedom to the people; they believed that the vote should only extend to the landowners. In the \"Putney Debates\" of 1647, the two groups debated these topics in hopes of forming a new constitution for England. There were rebellions and mutinies following the debates, and in 1649, the Bishopsgate mutiny resulted in the execution of Leveller Robert Lockyer by firing squad. The next month, the Banbury mutiny occurred with similar results. Cromwell led the charge in quelling these rebellions. After quelling Leveller mutinies within the English army at Andover and Burford in May, Cromwell departed for Ireland from Bristol at the end of July.\n\nCromwell led a Parliamentary invasion of Ireland from 1649–50. Parliament's key opposition was the military threat posed by the alliance of the Irish Confederate Catholics and English royalists (signed in 1649). The Confederate-Royalist alliance was judged to be the biggest single threat facing the Commonwealth. However, the political situation in Ireland in 1649 was extremely fractured: there were also separate forces of Irish Catholics who were opposed to the royalist alliance, and Protestant royalist forces that were gradually moving towards Parliament. Cromwell said in a speech to the army Council on 23 March that \"I had rather be overthrown by a Cavalierish interest than a Scotch interest; I had rather be overthrown by a Scotch interest than an Irish interest and I think of all this is the most dangerous\".\n\nCromwell's hostility to the Irish was religious as well as political. He was passionately opposed to the Catholic Church, which he saw as denying the primacy of the Bible in favour of papal and clerical authority, and which he blamed for suspected tyranny and persecution of Protestants in continental Europe. Cromwell's association of Catholicism with persecution was deepened with the Irish Rebellion of 1641. This rebellion, although intended to be bloodless, was marked by massacres of English and Scottish Protestant settlers by Irish (\"Gaels\") and Old English in Ireland, and Highland Scot Catholics in Ireland. These settlers had settled on land seized from former, native Catholic owners to make way for the non-native Protestants. These factors contributed to the brutality of the Cromwell military campaign in Ireland.\n\nParliament had planned to re-conquer Ireland since 1641 and had already sent an invasion force there in 1647. Cromwell's invasion of 1649 was much larger and, with the civil war in England over, could be regularly reinforced and re-supplied. His nine-month military campaign was brief and effective, though it did not end the war in Ireland. Before his invasion, Parliamentarian forces held only outposts in Dublin and Derry. When he departed Ireland, they occupied most of the eastern and northern parts of the country. After his landing at Dublin on 15 August 1649 (itself only recently defended from an Irish and English Royalist attack at the Battle of Rathmines), Cromwell took the fortified port towns of Drogheda and Wexford to secure logistical supply from England. At the Siege of Drogheda in September 1649, Cromwell's troops killed nearly 3,500 people after the town's capture—comprising around 2,700 Royalist soldiers and all the men in the town carrying arms, including some civilians, prisoners and Roman Catholic priests. Cromwell wrote afterwards that:\n\nI am persuaded that this is a righteous judgment of God upon these barbarous wretches, who have imbrued their hands in so much innocent blood and that it will tend to prevent the effusion of blood for the future, which are satisfactory grounds for such actions, which otherwise cannot but work remorse and regret\n\nAt the Siege of Wexford in October, another massacre took place under confused circumstances. While Cromwell was apparently trying to negotiate surrender terms, some of his soldiers broke into the town, killed 2,000 Irish troops and up to 1,500 civilians, and burned much of the town.\n\nAfter the taking of Drogheda, Cromwell sent a column north to Ulster to secure the north of the country and went on to besiege Waterford, Kilkenny and Clonmel in Ireland's south-east. Kilkenny surrendered on terms, as did many other towns like New Ross and Carlow, but Cromwell failed to take Waterford, and at the siege of Clonmel in May 1650 he lost up to 2,000 men in abortive assaults before the town surrendered.\n\nOne of his major victories in Ireland was diplomatic rather than military. With the help of Roger Boyle, 1st Earl of Orrery, Cromwell persuaded the Protestant Royalist troops in Cork to change sides and fight with the Parliament. At this point, word reached Cromwell that Charles II (son of Charles I) had landed in Scotland from exile in France and been proclaimed King by the Covenanter regime. Cromwell therefore returned to England from Youghal on 26 May 1650 to counter this threat.\n\nThe Parliamentarian conquest of Ireland dragged on for almost three years after Cromwell's departure. The campaigns under Cromwell's successors Henry Ireton and Edmund Ludlow mostly consisted of long sieges of fortified cities and guerrilla warfare in the countryside. The last Catholic-held town, Galway, surrendered in April 1652 and the last Irish Catholic troops capitulated in April of the following year.\n\nIn the wake of the Commonwealth's conquest of the island of Ireland, the public practice of Roman Catholicism was banned and Catholic priests were killed when captured. All Catholic-owned land was confiscated under the Act for the Settlement of Ireland of 1652 and given to Scottish and English settlers, Parliament's financial creditors and Parliamentary soldiers. The remaining Catholic landowners were allocated poorer land in the province of Connacht.\n\nThe extent of Cromwell's brutality in Ireland has been strongly debated. Some historians argue that Cromwell never accepted that he was responsible for the killing of civilians in Ireland, claiming that he had acted harshly but only against those \"in arms\". Other historians, however, cite Cromwell's contemporary reports to London including that of 27 September 1649 in which he lists the slaying of 3,000 military personnel, followed by the phrase \"and many inhabitants\". In September 1649, he justified his sacking of Drogheda as revenge for the massacres of Protestant settlers in Ulster in 1641, calling the massacre \"the righteous judgement of God on these barbarous wretches, who have imbrued their hands with so much innocent blood.\" However, Drogheda had never been held by the rebels in 1641—many of its garrison were in fact English royalists. On the other hand, the worst atrocities committed in Ireland, such as mass evictions, killings and deportation of over 50,000 men, women and children as prisoners of war and indentured servants to Bermuda and Barbados, were carried out under the command of other generals after Cromwell had left for England. Some point to his actions on entering Ireland. Cromwell demanded that no supplies were to be seized from the civilian inhabitants and that everything should be fairly purchased; \"I do hereby warn...all Officers, Soldiers and others under my command not to do any wrong or violence toward Country People or any persons whatsoever, unless they be actually in arms or office with the enemy...as they shall answer to the contrary at their utmost peril.\"\nThe massacres at Drogheda and Wexford were in some ways typical of the day, especially in the context of the recently ended Thirty Years War, although there are few comparable incidents during the Civil Wars in England or Scotland, which were fought mainly between Protestant adversaries, albeit of differing denominations. One possible comparison is Cromwell's Siege of Basing House in 1645—the seat of the prominent Catholic the Marquess of Winchester—which resulted in about 100 of the garrison of 400 being killed after being refused quarter. Contemporaries also reported civilian casualties, six Catholic priests and a woman. However, the scale of the deaths at Basing House was much smaller. Cromwell himself said of the slaughter at Drogheda in his first letter back to the Council of State: \"I believe we put to the sword the whole number of the defendants. I do not think thirty of the whole number escaped with their lives.\" Cromwell's orders—\"in the heat of the action, I forbade them to spare any that were in arms in the town\"—followed a request for surrender at the start of the siege, which was refused. The military protocol of the day was that a town or garrison that rejected the chance to surrender was not entitled to quarter. The refusal of the garrison at Drogheda to do this, even after the walls had been breached, was to Cromwell justification for the massacre. Where Cromwell negotiated the surrender of fortified towns, as at Carlow, New Ross, and Clonmel, some historians argue that he respected the terms of surrender and protected the lives and property of the townspeople. At Wexford, Cromwell again began negotiations for surrender. However, the captain of Wexford castle surrendered during the middle of the negotiations, and in the confusion some of his troops began indiscriminate killing and looting.\n\nAlthough Cromwell's time spent on campaign in Ireland was limited, and although he did not take on executive powers until 1653, he is often the central focus of wider debates about whether, as historians such as Mark Levene and John Morrill suggest, the Commonwealth conducted a deliberate programme of ethnic cleansing in Ireland. Faced with the prospect of an Irish alliance with Charles II, Cromwell carried out a series of massacres to subdue the Irish. Then, once Cromwell had returned to England, the English Commissary, General Henry Ireton, adopted a deliberate policy of crop burning and starvation. Total excess deaths for the entire period of the Wars of the Three Kingdoms in Ireland was estimated by Sir William Petty, the 17th Century economist, to be 600,000 out of a total Irish population of 1,400,000 in 1641. More modern estimates put the figure closer to 200,000 out of a population of 2 million.\n\nThe sieges of Drogheda and Wexford have been prominently mentioned in histories and literature up to the present day. James Joyce, for example, mentioned Drogheda in his novel \"Ulysses\": \"What about sanctimonious Cromwell and his ironsides that put the women and children of Drogheda to the sword with the bible text God is love pasted round the mouth of his cannon?\" Similarly, Winston Churchill (writing 1957) described the impact of Cromwell on Anglo-Irish relations:\n\n...upon all of these Cromwell's record was a lasting bane. By an uncompleted process of terror, by an iniquitous land settlement, by the virtual proscription of the Catholic religion, by the bloody deeds already described, he cut new gulfs between the nations and the creeds. 'Hell or Connaught' were the terms he thrust upon the native inhabitants, and they for their part, across three hundred years, have used as their keenest expression of hatred 'The Curse of Cromwell on you.' ... Upon all of us there still lies 'the curse of Cromwell'.\n\nA key surviving statement of Cromwell's own views on the conquest of Ireland is his \"Declaration of the lord lieutenant of Ireland for the undeceiving of deluded and seduced people\" of January 1650. In this he was scathing about Catholicism, saying that \"I shall not, where I have the power... suffer the exercise of the Mass.\" However, he also declared that: \"as for the people, what thoughts they have in the matter of religion in their own breasts I cannot reach; but I shall think it my duty, if they walk honestly and peaceably, not to cause them in the least to suffer for the same.\" Private soldiers who surrendered their arms \"and shall live peaceably and honestly at their several homes, they shall be permitted so to do.\"\n\nIn 1965 the Irish minister for lands stated that his policies were necessary to \"undo the work of Cromwell\"; circa 1997, Taoiseach Bertie Ahern demanded that a portrait of Cromwell be removed from a room in the Foreign Office before he began a meeting with Robin Cook.\n\nCromwell left Ireland in May 1650 and several months later invaded Scotland after the Scots had proclaimed Charles I's son Charles II as King. Cromwell was much less hostile to Scottish Presbyterians, some of whom had been his allies in the First English Civil War, than he was to Irish Catholics. He described the Scots as a people \"fearing His [God's] name, though deceived\". He made a famous appeal to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, urging them to see the error of the royal alliance—\"I beseech you, in the bowels of Christ, think it possible you may be mistaken.\" The Scots' reply was robust: \"would you have us to be sceptics in our religion?\" This decision to negotiate with Charles II led Cromwell to believe that war was necessary.\n\nHis appeal rejected, Cromwell's veteran troops went on to invade Scotland. At first, the campaign went badly, as Cromwell's men were short of supplies and held up at fortifications manned by Scottish troops under David Leslie. Sickness began to spread in the ranks. Cromwell was on the brink of evacuating his army by sea from Dunbar. However, on 3 September 1650, unexpectedly, Cromwell smashed the main Scottish army at the Battle of Dunbar, killing 4,000 Scottish soldiers, taking another 10,000 prisoner, and then capturing the Scottish capital of Edinburgh. The victory was of such a magnitude that Cromwell called it \"A high act of the Lord's Providence to us [and] one of the most signal mercies God hath done for England and His people\".\n\nThe following year, Charles II and his Scottish allies made a desperate attempt to invade England and capture London while Cromwell was engaged in Scotland. Cromwell followed them south and caught them at Worcester on 3 September 1651, and his forces destroyed the last major Scottish Royalist army at the Battle of Worcester. Charles II barely escaped capture and fled to exile in France and the Netherlands, where he remained until 1660.\n\nTo fight the battle, Cromwell organised an envelopment followed by a multi-pronged coordinated attack on Worcester, his forces attacking from three directions with two rivers partitioning them. He switched his reserves from one side of the river Severn to the other and then back again. The editor of the \"Great Rebellion\" article of the Encyclopædia Britannica (eleventh edition) notes that Worcester was a battle of manoeuvre compared to the early Civil War Battle of Turnham Green, which the English parliamentary armies were unable to execute at the start of the war, and he suggests that it was a prototype for the Battle of Sedan (1870).\n\nIn the final stages of the Scottish campaign, Cromwell's men under George Monck sacked Dundee, killing up to 1,000 men and 140 women and children. Scotland was ruled from England during the Commonwealth and was kept under military occupation, with a line of fortifications sealing off the Highlands which had provided manpower for Royalist armies in Scotland. The northwest Highlands was the scene of another pro-royalist uprising in 1653–55, which was put down with deployment of 6,000 English troops there. Presbyterianism was allowed to be practised as before, but the Kirk (the Scottish church) did not have the backing of the civil courts to impose its rulings, as it had previously.\n\nCromwell's conquest left no significant legacy of bitterness in Scotland. The rule of the Commonwealth and Protectorate was largely peaceful, apart from the Highlands. Moreover, there were no wholesale confiscations of land or property. Three out of every four Justices of the Peace in Commonwealth Scotland were Scots and the country was governed jointly by the English military authorities and a Scottish Council of State.\n\nCromwell was away on campaign from the middle of 1649 until 1651, and the various factions in Parliament began to fight amongst themselves with the King gone as their \"common cause\". Cromwell tried to galvanise the Rump into setting dates for new elections, uniting the three kingdoms under one polity, and to put in place a broad-brush, tolerant national church. However, the Rump vacillated in setting election dates, although it put in place a basic liberty of conscience, but it failed to produce an alternative for tithes or to dismantle other aspects of the existing religious settlement. In frustration, Cromwell demanded that the Rump establish a caretaker government in April 1653 of 40 members drawn from the Rump and the army, and then abdicate; but the Rump returned to debating its own bill for a new government. Cromwell was so angered by this that he cleared the chamber and dissolved the Parliament by force on 20 April 1653, supported by about 40 musketeers. Several accounts exist of this incident; in one, Cromwell is supposed to have said \"you are no Parliament, I say you are no Parliament; I will put an end to your sitting\". At least two accounts agree that he snatched up the ceremonial mace, symbol of Parliament's power, and demanded that the \"bauble\" be taken away. His troops were commanded by Charles Worsley, later one of his Major Generals and one of his most trusted advisors, to whom he entrusted the mace.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Rump, power passed temporarily to a council that debated what form the constitution should take. They took up the suggestion of Major-General Thomas Harrison for a \"sanhedrin\" of saints. Although Cromwell did not subscribe to Harrison's apocalyptic, Fifth Monarchist beliefs—which saw a sanhedrin as the starting point for Christ's rule on earth—he was attracted by the idea of an assembly made up of men chosen for their religious credentials. In his speech at the opening of the assembly on 4 July 1653, Cromwell thanked God's providence that he believed had brought England to this point and set out their divine mission: \"truly God hath called you to this work by, I think, as wonderful providences as ever passed upon the sons of men in so short a time.\" The Nominated Assembly, sometimes known as the Parliament of Saints, or more commonly and denigratingly called Barebone's Parliament after one of its members, Praise-God Barebone. The assembly was tasked with finding a permanent constitutional and religious settlement (Cromwell was invited to be a member but declined). However, the revelation that a considerably larger segment of the membership than had been believed were the radical Fifth Monarchists led to its members voting to dissolve it on 12 December 1653, out of fear of what the radicals might do if they took control of the Assembly.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Barebones Parliament, John Lambert put forward a new constitution known as the Instrument of Government, closely modelled on the Heads of Proposals. It made Cromwell Lord Protector for life to undertake \"the chief magistracy and the administration of government\". Cromwell was sworn in as Lord Protector on 16 December 1653, with a ceremony in which he wore plain black clothing, rather than any monarchical regalia. However, from this point on Cromwell signed his name 'Oliver P', the \"P\" being an abbreviation for \"Protector\", which was similar to the style of monarchs who used an \"R\" to mean \"Rex\" or \"Regina\", and it soon became the norm for others to address him as \"Your Highness\". As Protector, he had the power to call and dissolve parliaments but was obliged under the Instrument to seek the majority vote of a Council of State. Nevertheless, Cromwell's power was buttressed by his continuing popularity among the army. As the Lord Protector he was paid £100,000 a year.\n\nCromwell had two key objectives as Lord Protector. The first was \"healing and settling\" the nation after the chaos of the civil wars and the regicide, which meant establishing a stable form for the new government to take. Although Cromwell declared to the first Protectorate Parliament that, \"Government by one man and a parliament is fundamental,\" in practice social priorities took precedence over forms of government. Such forms were, he said, \"but ... dross and dung in comparison of Christ\". The social priorities did not, despite the revolutionary nature of the government, include any meaningful attempt to reform the social order. Cromwell declared, \"A nobleman, a gentleman, a yeoman; the distinction of these: that is a good interest of the nation, and a great one!\", Small-scale reform such as that carried out on the judicial system were outweighed by attempts to restore order to English politics. Direct taxation was reduced slightly and peace was made with the Dutch, ending the First Anglo-Dutch War.\n\nEngland's American colonies in this period consisted of the New England Confederation, the Providence Plantation, the Virginia Colony and the Maryland Colony. Cromwell soon secured the submission of these and largely left them to their own affairs, intervening only to curb his fellow Puritans who were usurping control over the Maryland Colony at the Battle of the Severn, by his confirming the former Catholic proprietorship and edict of tolerance there. Of all the English dominions, Virginia was the most resentful of Cromwell's rule, and Cavalier emigration there mushroomed during the Protectorate.\n\nCromwell famously stressed the quest to restore order in his speech to the first Protectorate parliament at its inaugural meeting on 3 September 1654. He declared that \"healing and settling\" were the \"great end of your meeting\". However, the Parliament was quickly dominated by those pushing for more radical, properly republican reforms. After some initial gestures approving appointments previously made by Cromwell, the Parliament began to work on a radical programme of constitutional reform. Rather than opposing Parliament's bill, Cromwell dissolved them on 22 January 1655. The First Protectorate Parliament had a property franchise of £200 per annum in real or personal property value set as the minimum value in which a male adult was to possess before he was eligible to vote for the representatives from the counties or shires in the House of Commons. The House of Commons representatives from the boroughs were elected by the burgesses or those borough residents who had the right to vote in municipal elections, and by the aldermen and councilors of the boroughs.\nCromwell's second objective was spiritual and moral reform. He aimed to restore liberty of conscience and promote both outward and inward godliness throughout England. During the early months of the Protectorate, a set of \"triers\" was established to assess the suitability of future parish ministers, and a related set of \"ejectors\" was set up to dismiss ministers and schoolmasters who were deemed unsuitable for office. The triers and the ejectors were intended to be at the vanguard of Cromwell's reform of parish worship. This second objective is also the context in which to see the constitutional experiment of the Major Generals that followed the dissolution of the first Protectorate Parliament. After a royalist uprising in March 1655, led by Sir John Penruddock, Cromwell (influenced by Lambert) divided England into military districts ruled by Army Major Generals who answered only to him. The 15 major generals and deputy major generals—called \"godly governors\"—were central not only to national security, but Cromwell's crusade to reform the nation's morals. The generals not only supervised militia forces and security commissions, but collected taxes and ensured support for the government in the English and Welsh provinces. Commissioners for securing the peace of the commonwealth were appointed to work with them in every county. While a few of these commissioners were career politicians, most were zealous puritans who welcomed the major-generals with open arms and embraced their work with enthusiasm. However, the major-generals lasted less than a year. Many feared they threatened their reform efforts and authority. Their position was further harmed by a tax proposal by Major General John Desborough to provide financial backing for their work, which the second Protectorate parliament—instated in September 1656—voted down for fear of a permanent military state. Ultimately, however, Cromwell's failure to support his men, sacrificing them to his opponents, caused their demise. Their activities between November 1655 and September 1656 had, however, reopened the wounds of the 1640s and deepened antipathies to the regime.\n\nAs Lord Protector, Cromwell was aware of the Jewish community's involvement in the economics of the Netherlands, now England's leading commercial rival. It was this—allied to Cromwell's tolerance of the right to private worship of those who fell outside Puritanism—that led to his encouraging Jews to return to England in 1657, over 350 years after their banishment by Edward I, in the hope that they would help speed up the recovery of the country after the disruption of the Civil Wars. There was a longer-term motive for Cromwell's decision to allow the Jews to return to England, and that was the hope that they would convert to Christianity and therefore hasten the Second Coming of Jesus Christ, ultimately based on Matthew 23:37–39 and Romans 11. At the Whitehall conference of December 1655 he quoted from St. Paul's Epistle to the Romans 10:12–15 on the need to send Christian preachers to the Jews. William Prynne the Presbyterian, in contrast to Cromwell the Congregationalist, was strongly opposed to the latter's pro-Jewish policy.\n\nOn 23 March 1657 the Protectorate signed the Treaty of Paris with Louis XIV against Spain. Cromwell pledged to supply France with 6,000 troops and war ships. In accordance with the terms of the treaty, Mardyck and Dunkirk – a base for privateers and commerce raiders attacking English merchant shipping – were ceded to England.\n\nIn 1657, Cromwell was offered the crown by Parliament as part of a revised constitutional settlement, presenting him with a dilemma since he had been \"instrumental\" in abolishing the monarchy. Cromwell agonised for six weeks over the offer. He was attracted by the prospect of stability it held out, but in a speech on 13 April 1657 he made clear that God's providence had spoken against the office of King: \"I would not seek to set up that which Providence hath destroyed and laid in the dust, and I would not build Jericho again\". The reference to Jericho harks back to a previous occasion on which Cromwell had wrestled with his conscience when the news reached England of the defeat of an expedition against the Spanish-held island of Hispaniola in the West Indies in 1655—comparing himself to Achan, who had brought the Israelites defeat after bringing plunder back to camp after the capture of Jericho.\nInstead, Cromwell was ceremonially re-installed as Lord Protector on 26 June 1657 at Westminster Hall, sitting upon King Edward's Chair, which was moved specially from Westminster Abbey for the occasion. The event in part echoed a coronation, using many of its symbols and regalia, such as a purple ermine-lined robe, a sword of justice and a sceptre (but not a crown or an orb). But, most notably, the office of Lord Protector was still not to become hereditary, though Cromwell was now able to nominate his own successor. Cromwell's new rights and powers were laid out in the Humble Petition and Advice, a legislative instrument which replaced the Instrument of Government. Despite failing to restore the Crown, this new constitution did set up many of the vestiges of the ancient constitution including a house of life peers (in place of the House of Lords). In the Humble Petition it was called the Other House as the Commons could not agree on a suitable name. Furthermore, Oliver Cromwell increasingly took on more of the trappings of monarchy. In particular, he created three peerages after the acceptance of the Humble Petition and Advice: Charles Howard was made Viscount Morpeth and Baron Gisland in July 1657 and Edmund Dunch was created Baron Burnell of East Wittenham in April 1658.\n\nCromwell is thought to have suffered from malaria and from \"stone\", a common term for urinary and kidney infections. In 1658, he was struck by a sudden bout of malarial fever, followed directly by illness symptomatic of a urinary or kidney complaint. The Venetian ambassador wrote regular dispatches to the Doge of Venice in which he included details of Cromwell's final illness, and he was suspicious of the rapidity of his death. The decline may have been hastened by the death of his daughter Elizabeth Claypole in August. He died at age 59 at Whitehall on Friday 3 September 1658, the anniversary of his great victories at Dunbar and Worcester. The most likely cause was septicaemia following his urinary infection. He was buried with great ceremony, with an elaborate funeral at Westminster Abbey based on that of James I, his daughter Elizabeth also being buried there.\n\nHe was succeeded as Lord Protector by his son Richard. Richard had no power base in Parliament or the Army and was forced to resign in May 1659, ending the Protectorate. There was no clear leadership from the various factions that jostled for power during the reinstated Commonwealth, so George Monck was able to march on London at the head of New Model Army regiments and restore the Long Parliament. Under Monck's watchful eye, the necessary constitutional adjustments were made so that Charles II could be invited back from exile in 1660 to be King under a restored monarchy.\n\nCromwell's body was exhumed from Westminster Abbey on 30 January 1661, the 12th anniversary of the execution of Charles I, and was subjected to a posthumous execution, as were the remains of Robert Blake, John Bradshaw, and Henry Ireton. (The body of Cromwell's daughter was allowed to remain buried in the Abbey.) His body was hanged in chains at Tyburn, London and then thrown into a pit. His head was cut off and displayed on a pole outside Westminster Hall until 1685. Afterwards, it was owned by various people, including a documented sale in 1814 to Josiah Henry Wilkinson, and it was publicly exhibited several times before being buried beneath the floor of the antechapel at Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge in 1960. The exact position was not publicly disclosed, but a plaque marks the approximate location.\n\nMany people began to question whether the body mutilated at Tyburn and the head seen on Westminster Hall were Cromwell's. These doubts arose because it was assumed that Cromwell's body was reburied in several places between his death in September 1658 and the exhumation of January 1661, in order to protect it from vengeful royalists. The stories suggest that his bodily remains are buried in London, Cambridgeshire, Northamptonshire, or Yorkshire.\n\nThe Cromwell vault was later used as a burial place for Charles II's illegitimate descendants. In Westminster Abbey, the site of Cromwell's burial was marked during the 19th century by a floor stone in what is now the RAF Chapel reading: \"The burial place of Oliver Cromwell 1658–1661\".\n\nDuring his lifetime, some tracts painted Cromwell as a hypocrite motivated by power. For example, \"The Machiavilian Cromwell\" and \"The Juglers Discovered\" are parts of an attack on Cromwell by the Levellers after 1647, and both present him as a Machiavellian figure. John Spittlehouse presented a more positive assessment in \"A Warning Piece Discharged\", comparing him to Moses rescuing the English by taking them safely through the Red Sea of the civil wars. Poet John Milton called Cromwell \"our chief of men\" in his \"Sonnet XVI\".\n\nSeveral biographies were published soon after Cromwell's death. An example is \"The Perfect Politician\", which describes how Cromwell \"loved men more than books\" and provides a nuanced assessment of him as an energetic campaigner for liberty of conscience who is brought down by pride and ambition. An equally nuanced but less positive assessment was published in 1667 by Edward Hyde, 1st Earl of Clarendon in his \"History of the Rebellion and Civil Wars in England\". Clarendon famously declares that Cromwell \"will be looked upon by posterity as a brave bad man\". He argues that Cromwell's rise to power had been helped by his great spirit and energy, but also by his ruthlessness. Clarendon was not one of Cromwell's confidantes, and his account was written after the Restoration of the monarchy.\n\nDuring the early 18th century, Cromwell's image began to be adopted and reshaped by the Whigs as part of a wider project to give their political objectives historical legitimacy. John Toland rewrote Edmund Ludlow's \"Memoirs\" in order to remove the Puritan elements and replace them with a Whiggish brand of republicanism, and it presents the Cromwellian Protectorate as a military tyranny. Through Ludlow, Toland portrayed Cromwell as a despot who crushed the beginnings of democratic rule in the 1640s.\n\nDuring the early 19th century, Cromwell began to be portrayed in a positive light by Romantic artists and poets. Thomas Carlyle continued this reassessment in the 1840s, publishing an annotated collection of his letters and speeches, and describing English Puritanism as \"the last of all our Heroisms\" while taking a negative view of his own era. By the late 19th century, Carlyle's portrayal of Cromwell had become assimilated into Whig and Liberal historiography, stressing the centrality of puritan morality and earnestness. Oxford civil war historian Samuel Rawson Gardiner concluded that \"the man—it is ever so with the noblest—was greater than his work\". Gardiner stressed Cromwell's dynamic and mercurial character, and his role in dismantling absolute monarchy, while underestimating Cromwell's religious conviction. Cromwell's foreign policy also provided an attractive forerunner of Victorian imperial expansion, with Gardiner stressing his \"constancy of effort to make England great by land and sea\".\n\nDuring the first half of the 20th century, Cromwell's reputation was often influenced by the rise of fascism in Nazi Germany and in Italy. Harvard historian Wilbur Cortez Abbott, for example, devoted much of his career to compiling and editing a multi-volume collection of Cromwell's letters and speeches, published between 1937 and 1947. Abbott argues that Cromwell was a proto-fascist. However, subsequent historians such as John Morrill have criticised both Abbott's interpretation of Cromwell and his editorial approach.\n\nLate 20th century historians re-examined the nature of Cromwell's faith and of his authoritarian regime. Austin Woolrych explored the issue of \"dictatorship\" in depth, arguing that Cromwell was subject to two conflicting forces: his obligation to the army and his desire to achieve a lasting settlement by winning back the confidence of the nation as a whole. He argued that the dictatorial elements of Cromwell's rule stemmed less from its military origin or the participation of army officers in civil government than from his constant commitment to the interest of the people of God and his conviction that suppressing vice and encouraging virtue constituted the chief end of government. Historians such as John Morrill, Blair Worden, and J. C. Davis have developed this theme, revealing the extent to which Cromwell's writing and speeches are suffused with biblical references, and arguing that his radical actions were driven by his zeal for godly reformation.\n\nIn 1776, one of the first ships commissioned to serve in the American Continental Navy during the American Revolutionary War was named \"Oliver Cromwell\".\n\n19th century engineer Sir Richard Tangye was a noted Cromwell enthusiast and collector of Cromwell manuscripts and memorabilia. His collection included many rare manuscripts and printed books, medals, paintings, objects d'art, and a bizarre assemblage of \"relics.\" This includes Cromwell's Bible, button, coffin plate, death mask, and funeral escutcheon. On Tangye's death, the entire collection was donated to the Museum of London, where it can still be seen.\n\nIn 1875, a statue of Cromwell by Matthew Noble was erected in Manchester outside the Manchester Cathedral, a gift to the city by Abel Heywood in memory of her first husband. It was the first large-scale statue to be erected in the open in England and was a realistic likeness, based on the painting by Peter Lely and showing Cromwell in battledress with drawn sword and leather body armour. It was unpopular with local Conservatives and the large Irish immigrant population. Queen Victoria was invited to open the new Manchester Town Hall, and she allegedly consented on the condition that the statue be removed. The statue remained, Victoria declined, and the town hall was opened by the Lord Mayor. During the 1980s, the statue was relocated outside Wythenshawe Hall, which had been occupied by Cromwell's troops.\n\nDuring the 1890s, Parliamentary plans turned controversial to erect a statue of Cromwell outside Parliament. Pressure from the Irish Nationalist Party forced the withdrawal of a motion to seek public funding for the project; the statue was eventually erected but it had to be funded privately by Lord Rosebery.\n\nCromwell controversy continued into the 20th century. Winston Churchill was First Lord of the Admiralty before World War I, and he twice suggested naming a British battleship HMS \"Oliver Cromwell\". The suggestion was vetoed by King George V because of his personal feelings and because he felt that it was unwise to give such a name to an expensive warship at a time of Irish political unrest, especially given the anger caused by the statue outside Parliament. Churchill was eventually told by First Sea Lord Admiral Battenberg that the King's decision must be treated as final. The Cromwell Tank was a British medium weight tank first used in 1944, and a steam locomotive built by British Railways in 1951 was the BR Standard Class 7 70013 Oliver Cromwell. \n\nOther public statues of Cromwell are the Statue of Oliver Cromwell, St Ives in Cambridgeshire and the Statue of Oliver Cromwell, Warrington in Cheshire. An oval plaque at Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge reads:\n\n<poem style=\"margin:0.3em auto; text-align:center;\">\nNear to\nthis place was buried\non 25 March 1960 the head of\nOLIVER CROMWELL\nLord Protector of the Common-\nwealth of England, Scotland &\nIreland, Fellow Commoner\nof this College 1616-7</poem>\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "43933585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43933585", "title": "Passive survivability", "text": "Passive survivability\n\nPassive survivability refers to the building's ability to maintain critical life-support conditions in the event of extended loss of power, heating fuel, or water. This is proposing that in a disaster situation whether it be a storm that causes a power outage and is unable to keep the interior of the building cool in severe climates, a drought which limits water supply, or the gas pipes get disconnected and the building is without gas, designers should incorporate ways in which the building is then capable of continuing to shelter the inhabitants for an extended period of time.\n\nThe term was coined by BuildingGreen President and EBN Executive editor Alex Wilson in 2005 after the wake of Hurricane Katrina. Passive Survivability is suggested to become a standard in the design criteria for houses, apartment buildings, and certain other building types. While many of the strategies considered to achieve the goals of passive survivability are not a new concept and is widely known and used throughout the decades of green building, the distinction comes from the motivation for moving towards high-performance and renewable power design buildings.\n\nIn much of the urban world with populated cities and residential areas, there is a heavy reliance on a grid for power and gas. These grids are the hub of energy for many of these societies and while they generally do not get interrupted, they are constantly prone to elements which may cause disruption. These potential hindrances can occur from a multitude of conditions ranging from natural disasters, extreme climates, and acts of man. Passive survivability aims to be prepared for when such an event may occur. One of the issues that passive survivability looks at is how to increase ventilation flow throughout a building so that a building can stay oxygenated while keeping the interior temperature regulated. Another is considering the many ways to keep thermal resistance of a building skin to prevent a room from becoming overbearing in the event of having a lack of access to standard temperature regulating systems. Key sources such as power lines, telephone lines, water pipelines, electricity boxes, or fuel pipelines, are potentially fragile components that can be and is often disrupted during such adversities as earthquakes, storms, and extreme weather. Other factors to be mindful of when applying passive survivability are:\n\n\nThe over arching goal of passive survivability is to try to reduce discomfort or suffering in the event of having a key source cut off to a building. There are several different solutions to any one design problem. While many of the solutions that are presented by advocates of passive survivability are ones that have been universally accepted by passive design and other standard sustainability practices, it is important to look over these measures and apply the appropriate strategies to developing and existing buildings in order to minimize the risk of displeasure or death.\n\nBuildings should be designed to maintain survivable thermal conditions without air conditioning or supplemental heat. Providing back-up generators and adequate fuel to maintain the critical functions of a building during outages are conventional solutions to power-supply interruptions. Indeed, generators need to be part of the answer in some situations, such as hospitals. However, unless they are very large, generators support only basic needs for a short amount of time and may not power systems such as air conditioning, lighting, or even heating or ventilation during extended outages. Back-up generators are also expensive both to buy and maintain. Storing significant quantities of fuel on-site to power generators during extended outages has inherent environmental and safety risks, particularly during storms. Passive solutions, such as designing highly efficient building envelopes, providing natural ventilation and day-lighting, and incorporating passive solar design can also contribute to a facility’s passive survivability. Renewable energy systems can provide power during an extreme event . For example, photovoltaic (or solar electric) power systems, when coupled with on-site battery storage can provide electricity when the grid loses power. Emergency water supply systems such as rooftop rainwater harvest systems can provide water for toilet flushing, bathing and other building needs in the event of water supply interruptions. The list below outlines aspects of a building’s design that should be taken into consideration when planning for passive survivability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14513820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14513820", "title": "Patent Act of 1790", "text": "Patent Act of 1790\n\nThe Patent Act of 1790 () was the first patent statute passed by the federal government of the United States. It was enacted on April 10, 1790, about one year after the constitution was ratified and a new government was organized. The law was concise, defining the subject matter of a U.S. patent as \"any useful art, manufacture, engine, machine, or device, or any improvement there on not before known or used.\" It granted the applicant the \"sole and exclusive right and liberty of making, constructing, using and vending to others to be used\" of his invention.\n\nThe origins of the 1790 Patent Act can be found in House Resolution 41, which brought about a discussion concerning the constitutionality of authorizing patents of importation. House Resolution 41 is the reason for why the Patent Act of 1790 did not provide for patents of importation when it was finally passed. Patent Board members, who also called themselves the \"Commissioners for the Promotion of Useful Arts\", were given the authority to grant or refuse a patent after deciding if the invention or discovery was \"sufficiently useful and important.\" The first board members included Thomas Jefferson, Henry Knox, and Edmund Randolph. Obtaining a patent required an overall fee of about four to five dollars：filing the application cost fifty cents plus ten cents per hundred words of specification: two dollars for producing the actual patent, one dollar for affixing the Great Seal and twenty cents for endorsement and all other services. The duration of each patent was assigned by the Patent Board, and could be of any length as long as it did not exceed fourteen years.\n\nThe authority to grant and refuse patents was handled completely by the Patent Board, which was composed of three members: the Secretary of State, the Secretary of War, and the Attorney General. The Department of State was where the act was administered because that is where the necessary books and records were kept and where filed papers were received. The three members of the Patent Board held meetings every so often and discussed the patent applications they had received. Sometimes the Patent Board would designate a day, during which a hearing would be held and the patent petitioner would have an opportunity to explain his case in person. However, these meetings were not scheduled as regularly as could have been, and the process for reviewing applications advanced slowly as each application required thorough and careful inspection.\n\nThe act was intended to grant patents only to the \"useful Arts,\" which was usually the work of skilled workers and artisans, especially in the fields of engineering and manufacturing. Obtaining a patent required first completing an examination, but this examination requirement was later dropped with the passing of the Patent Act of 1793. The inventor was required to submit \"a specification...containing a description...not only distinguish[ing] the invention...but also to enable\" a person knowledgeable of the art to use the invention for its intended purpose. This specification was made in writing and included a drawing and model if possible. Applicants were not required to give an oath.\n\nCases of infringement were dealt with by a jury, which assessed the damages made and appropriate punishment. The person who infringed, if found guilty, was made to hand over all of the infringing devices to the owner of the patent. Patents could be repealed by a district court within one year after it was granted if found to be infringing. However, if one was to bring his case to trial and lose, he would have to pay all costs. Several infringement suits involving the patents granted under this act occurred between 1790 and 1793, which are detailed by an act passed on June 7, 1974. In the event that a patent was found to be unjustly repealed, all suits, actions, processes and proceedings under the act of 1790 that had been set aside, suspended or abated by original reason for why it should be repealed could be given back as if the act had not been repealed.\n\nFifty-seven patents were granted during the three years the 1790 Patent Act existed. Three of these patents were granted in 1790, thirty-three in 1791, eleven in 1792, and ten in 1793 before February, which is when the following patent act was adopted. There is little available information regarding the subject matter of these patents, because all of these records along with other documents of the Patent Office were destroyed in the Patent Office Fire of 1836. The first patent was granted on July 31, 1790, to Samuel Hopkins for his invention of \"Making Pot and Pearl Ashes.\" Potash was used as an ingredient in several fields of manufacturing, such as making glass and soap, dying cloth, and producing both saltpeter and gunpowder. Samuel Hopkins of Pittsford, Vermont is generally misunderstood to be the recipient of this first patent, but the actual recipient was a different Samuel Hopkins from a town north of Baltimore, Maryland. Hopkins left behind a series of manuscripts describing the utility of his discovery of Potash, which is derived from a crude form of potassium carbonate and may be deemed as one of America's first chemicals to become widely used in industrial fields. The third patent was granted to a man named Oliver Evans on December 18, 1790. This patent involved about five individual inventions all related to the manufacture of flour. The fourth patent was granted on January 29, 1791, to Francis Bailey for inventing punches for types; it is the first patent whose existing copy remains in the Patent Office archives. The document is signed by George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, and Edmund Randolph. It contains only the grant and does not detail any specific aspects of the invention and its usage.\n\nThe 1790 Patent Act was amended for several reasons. The examination process required an unreasonable amount of time and soon became criticized by those in charge of administering it, the most vocal member being Thomas Jefferson. Investors also believed that \"patents were too difficult to obtain\" under the act. Congress removed the examination process three years after the 1790 Patent Act was passed, and inventions no longer needed to be deemed as \"sufficiently useful and important\" to be granted a patent. The new act transformed the process of granting patents from initially requiring strict examination by high government officials to requiring no examination at all.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19247356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19247356", "title": "Priscilla Leung", "text": "Priscilla Leung\n\nPriscilla Leung Mei-fun (; born 18 November 1960, Hong Kong) is a Hong Kong Legislative Councillor, representing the Kowloon West constituency since 2008. She is also a member of Kowloon City District Council.\n\nShe began her career in the China department at the international law firm Johnson Stokes & Master. She is a barrister and an associate professor at the City University of Hong Kong's School of Law, where her husband, Wang Guiguo, was the Dean. She has taught at the School of Law for the past 24 years and specialises in Chinese Law, Hong Kong Basic Law and conflict of laws between mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan.\n\nLeung has been politically active and outspoken on radio and television on cross-border matters and is well known as an expert on Chinese Law.\n\nLeung was the editor-in-charge of the Chinese Law Reports from 1993.\n\nLeung's political opponents accused her of having been supported by the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government and the pro-Beijing Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions in her bid for a Legco seat. She insisted that she was an independent in 2008 and a constructive political force, not a puppet controlled by Beijing. Leung has been a supporter of most governments bills.\n\nLeung is a social conservative, she is strongly opposed to same-sex marriage and equal rights for same-sex couples.\n\nShe is currently the chairman of the Legislative Council's Panel on Administration of Justice and Legal Services.\n\nLeung led opposition to the pro-democracy Occupy Central movement of September 2014.\n\nOn 13 January 2010, fellow legislator Albert Chan said that some people \"教狗屎法律\", literally, \"teach dog shit law\", in an apparent reference to Leung. Chan refused to withdraw his comment and LegCo president Tsang Yok-sing subsequently ruled that no LegCo rules had been violated. Leung, along with six other legislators, then protested against Tsang's decision, insisting that Albert Chan had defamed her, and walked out of the chamber to boycott the meeting.\n\nOn 21 January 2010, in a response to the quasi-referendum on universal suffrage which was triggered by the resignation of five pan-democrat members of LegCo, Leung announced she would introduce a private member's bill which would forbid resigned legislators from running in elections in the same four-year term. Ronny Tong criticised her move as a contravention of the Basic Law: he said such a bill would infringe the right to stand for elections protected under Article 26 and would be inconsistent with Article 74 which prohibits individual legislators from tabling bills that relate to the political structure.\n\nA less-extreme government bill, imposing a six-month prohibition on running for election after resignation, was passed in May 2012, in the face of filibustering efforts from legislators Leung Kwok-hung and Albert Chan.\n\nOn July 2014, she championed the Hong Kong Government's establishment of the \"Voluntary Scouts\".\n\n\nLeung published different articles and books, in English and Chinese, on the areas of Chinese Law, Hong Kong Basic Law and conflict of laws between mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan.\n\n\nLeung was awarded the Ten Outstanding Young Persons award for the year 2000 by the Christian group Junior Chamber International Hong Kong who, in 2015, claimed membership of about 2,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "14444698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14444698", "title": "Psychiatric advance directive", "text": "Psychiatric advance directive\n\nA psychiatric advance directive (PAD), also known as a mental health advance directive, is a written document that describes what a person wants to happen if at some time in the future they are judged to be suffering from a mental disorder in such a way that they are deemed unable to decide for themselves or to communicate effectively.\n\nIt can inform others about what treatment they want or don't want from psychiatrists or other mental health professionals, and it can identify a person to whom they have given the authority to make decisions on their behalf. A mental health advance directive is one kind of advance health care directive.\n\nPsychiatric advance directives are legal documents used by persons currently enjoying legal capacity to declare their preferences and instructions for future mental health treatment, or to appoint a surrogate decision maker through Health Care Power of Attorney (HCPA), in advance of being targeted by coercive mental health laws, during which they may be stripped of legal capacity to make decisions.\n\nIn the United States, although 25 states have now passed legislation in the past decade establishing authority for PADs, there is relatively little public information available to address growing interest in these legal documents. In addition in states without explicit PAD statutes, very similar mental health advance care planning can and does take place under generic HCPA statutes—expanding the audience for PADs to all 50 states (see National Resource Center on Psychiatric Advance Directives).\n\nIn addition to recognizing the potential benefits of PADs, states are beginning to recognize legal obligations under the federal Patient Self-Determination Act of 1991, which includes informing all hospital patients that they have a right to prepare advance directives and—with certain caveats—that clinicians are obliged to follow these directive. As such, federal law helps ensure that people labeled as having mental illness can use medical advance directives to specify mental health treatment preferences or assign proxy decision-makers for mental health decisions.\n\nFinally, the Joint Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) requires behavioral health facilities to ask patients if they have PADs. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services announced that patients have the right to formulate advance directives and to have hospital staff and practitioners who provide coercive interventions in the hospital comply with these directives. Hospitals out of compliance risk loss of Medicare and Medicaid revenue. While there are legal reasons to provide good crisis planning using PADs, the clinical reasons are equally compelling.\n\nIf followed by treatment providers, crisis planning using PADs will help involuntary detainees gain control over being targeted for substituted decision making—especially during times when they are labeled incompetent. Health care agents will be instrumental in providing inpatient clinicians with information that can be central to patients’ treatment, including history of side effects and relevant medical conditions.\n\nRecent data from a NIH-funded study conducted by researchers at Duke University has shown that creating a PAD with a trained facilitator increases therapeutic alliance with clinicians, enhances involuntary patients' treatment satisfaction and perceived autonomy, and improves treatment decision-making capacity among people labeled with severe mental illness.\n\nMoreover, PADs provide a transportable document—increasingly accessible through electronic directories—to convey information about a detainee's treatment history, including medical disorders, emergency contact information, and medication side effects. Clinicians often have limited information about citizens detained and labeled as psychiatric patients who present or are coercively presented and labeled as in crisis. Nonetheless, these are the typical settings in which clinicians are called upon to make critical patient-management and treatment decisions, using whatever limited data may be available. With PADs, clinicians could gain immediate access to relevant information about individual cases and thus improve the quality of clinical decision-making—appropriately managing risk to patients and others’ safety while also enhancing patients’ long-term autonomy.\n\nFor these reasons, PADs are seen as an innovative and effective way of enhancing values of autonomy and social welfare for detainees labeled with mental illness. Since PADs are among the first laws that are specifically intended to promote autonomy among people detained under mental health laws, wider use of PADs would empower a traditionally disenfranchised group when targeted for coercive psychiatry.\n\nNational surveys in the United States indicate that although approximately 70% of people targeted by coercive psychiatry laws would want a PAD if offered assistance in completing one, less than 10% have actually completed a PAD.\n\nSome people detained and forcibly drugged under coercive psychiatry laws report difficulty in understanding advance directives, skepticism about their benefit, and lack of contact with a trusted individual who could serve as proxy decision maker. The sheer complexity of filling out these legal forms, obtaining witnesses, having the documents notarized, and filing the documents in a medical record or registry may pose a formidable barrier.\n\nRecent studies of practitioners of coercive psychiatry's attitudes about PADs suggest that they are generally supportive of these legal instruments, but have significant concerns about some features of PADs and the feasibility of implementing them in usual coercive intervention settings. Clinicians are concerned about lack of access to PAD documents in a commitment, lack of staff training on PADs, lack of communication between staff across different components of mental health systems, and lack of time to review the advance directive documents.\n\nIn a survey conducted of 600 psychiatrists, psychologists, and social workers showed that the vast majority thought advance care planning for crises would help improve patients’ overall mental health care. Further, the more clinicians knew about PAD laws, the more favorable were their attitudes toward these practices. For instance, while most psychiatrists, social workers, and psychologists surveyed believed PADs would be helpful to people detained and targeted for forced drugging and electroshock when labeled with severe mental illnesses, clinicians with more legal knowledge about PAD laws were more likely to endorse PADs as a beneficial part of patients’ treatment planning.\n\nHowever, many clinicians reported NOT knowing enough about how PADs work and specifically indicated they lacked resources to readily help patients fill out PADs. Thus, if clinicians knew more about advance directives and had ready assistance for creating PADs, they said they would be much more likely to help their clients develop crisis plans.\n\nIt thus has become clear that the potential significance of PADs is becoming widely recognized among those targeted for coercive psychiatry, survivors of coercive psychiatry, influential policy makers, clinicians, family members, and patient advocacy groups but that significantly more concerted efforts at dissemination were needed. The community of stakeholders interested in PADs and the broader concept of self-directed care are in need of online resource and gathering place for exchange of views and information.\n\nAs a result, in the United States, a collaboration between the Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law and Duke University has led to creation of the MacArthur Foundation-funded National Resource Center on Psychiatric Advance Directives, the only web portal exclusively devoted to developing a learning community to help people targeted for coercive psychiatry, their families, and clinicians prepare for, and ultimately prevent, coercive psychiatry interventions. The NRC-PAD includes basic information, frequently asked questions, educational webcasts, web blog, most recent research, legal analyses, and state-by-state information on PADs and patient-centered crisis planning. The NRC-PAD website thus includes easy step-by-step information to help those targeted for forced drugging, family, and clinicians complete PADs that mirror the provisions in the PAD statutes.\n\nThe Oregon-based non-profit Mental Health Association of Portland makes its 'Declaration for Mental Health Treatment' available online in PDF and WORD formats.\n\nFor other countries, see.\n"}
{"id": "15806113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15806113", "title": "Schumer box", "text": "Schumer box\n\nThe Schumer box is a summary of the costs of a credit card in the United States. It is named after Charles Schumer, the New York congressman (now United States senator) who was responsible for the legislation requiring that terms of credit cards be clearly outlined in any promotional material. The law was enacted in 1988 and took effect in 1989 in the United States. \nSimilar legislation was enacted in the United Kingdom and took effect in March 2004. Credit card companies are required to list long-term rates in at least 18-point type and other key disclosures in 12-point type.\n\nThe Schumer box includes:\n\nAll credit card companies use the same format, making comparison shopping for credit cards easy.\n\nThe Schumer box is also known as the summary box, transparency box, clarity box, consumer box and honesty box.\n"}
{"id": "57052495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57052495", "title": "Solar Decathlon Africa", "text": "Solar Decathlon Africa\n\nThe Solar Decathlon AFRICA is an international competition that challenges collegiate teams to design and build houses powered exclusively by the sun. The winner of the competition is the team able to score the most points in 10 contests.\n\nOn November 15, 2016, the Moroccan Ministry of Energy, Mines, Water, and Sustainable development ; the Moroccan Research Institute in Solar Energy and New Energies (IRESEN) ; and the United States Department of Energy signed a memorandum of understanding to collaborate on the development of Solar Decathlon Africa, a competition that will integrate unique local and regional characteristics while following the philosophy, principles, and model of the U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon. The competition is planned for September 2019.\n\nThis competition takes place during even years, alternating with the U.S.-based competition, Solar Decathlon by agreement between the United States and Moroccan governments.\n\nThe 2019 edition of the Solar Decathlon Africa took place in Ben Guerir, Morocco\n\nParticipants:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3517666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3517666", "title": "Speed limits in the United States", "text": "Speed limits in the United States\n\nSpeed limits in the United States are set by each state or territory. States also allowed counties and municipalities, to enact typically lower limits. Highway speed limits can range from an urban low of to a rural high of . Speed limits are typically posted in increments of . Some states have lower limits for trucks and at night, and occasionally there are minimum speed limits. \n\nThe highest speed limits are generally on the West Coast and the inland eastern states, in inland western states, along with Arkansas and Louisiana, and on the Eastern Seaboard. Alaska, Connecticut, Delaware, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Puerto Rico, Rhode Island, and Vermont have a maximum limit of , and Hawaii has a maximum limit of . The District of Columbia and the U.S. Virgin Islands have a maximum speed limit of . Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands and American Samoa have speed limits of . Two territories in the U.S. Minor Outlying Islands have their own speed limits: in Wake Island, and in Midway Atoll. Unusual for any state east of the Mississippi River, much of I-95 in Maine north of Bangor allows up to , and the same is true for up to 600 miles of freeways in Michigan. Portions of the Idaho, Montana, Nevada, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, and Wyoming road networks have posted limits. The highest posted speed limit in the country is and can be found only on the Texas State Highway 130.\n\nFor 13 years (January 1974–April 1987), federal law withheld Federal highway trust funds to states that had speed limits above . From April 1987 to December 8, 1995, an amended federal law disincentivized speed limits above .\n\nThis table contains the most usual posted daytime speed limits, in miles per hour, on typical roads in each category. The values shown are not necessarily the fastest or slowest. They usually indicate, but not always, statutory speed limits. Some states and territories have lower truck speed limits applicable to heavy trucks. If present, they are usually only on freeways or other high-speed roadways. Washington allows for speeds up to , but the highest posted signs are . Mississippi allows speeds up to on toll roads, but no such roads exist. Oklahoma removed the maximum speed of 75 from its laws, though no road has been posted higher than 75.\n\nOne of the first speed limits in what would become the United States (at the time, still a British colony) was set in Boston in 1701 by the board of selectmen (similar to a city council):\"Ordered, That no person whatsoever Shall at any time hereafter ride or drive a gallop or other extream pace within any of the Streets, lanes, or alleys in this Town on penalty of forfeiting three Shillings for every such offence, and it may be lawfull for any of the Inhabitants of this Town to make Stop of such horse or Rider the name of the offender be known in order to prosecution\"\n\nIn response to the 1973 oil crisis, Congress enacted the National Maximum Speed Law that created the universal speed limit. States had to agree to the limit if they desired to receive federal funding for highway repair. The federal government enforced the national maximum speed limit by withholding federal funding for projects whose speed limits exceeded . Federal highway funding is normally allocated according to 23 U.S. Code § 106, the National Maximum Speed Law (also known as H.R.11372 - An Act to conserve energy on the Nation's highways) modified the allocation process. As stated, in part:\n\nWhether the lowered speed limits reduced gasoline consumption or not has been debated, and the impact on safety is unclear; studies and opinions of safety advocates are mixed.\n\nThe law was widely disregarded by motorists, even after the national maximum was increased to on certain roads in 1987 and 1988. In 1995, the law was repealed, returning the choice of speed limit to each state.\n\nUpon that repeal, there was effectively no speed limit on Montana's interstates for daytime driving (the nighttime limit was set at 65 mph) from 1995 to 1999, when the state Supreme Court threw out the law as \"unconstitutionally vague.\" The state legislature enacted a 75 mph daytime limit in May 1999.\n\nAs of May 15, 2017, 41 states have maximum speed limits of 70 mph or higher. 18 of those states have 75 mph speed limits or higher, while 7 states of that same portion have 80 mph speed limits.\n\nIn addition to the legally defined maximum speed, minimum speed limits may be applicable. Occasionally, there are default minimum speed limits for certain types of roads, generally freeways.\n\nComparable to the common basic speed rule, most jurisdictions also have laws prohibiting speeds so low they are dangerous or impede the normal and reasonable flow of traffic.\n\nSome jurisdictions set lower speed limits that are applicable only to large commercial vehicles like heavy trucks and buses. While they are called \"truck speed limits\", they generally do not apply to light trucks.\n\nA 1987 study said that crash involvement significantly increases when trucks drive much slower than passenger vehicles, suggesting that the difference in speed between passenger vehicles and slower trucks could cause crashes that otherwise may not happen. In a review of available research, the Transportation Research Board said \"[no] conclusive evidence could be found to support or reject the use of differential speed limits for passenger cars and heavy trucks\" and \"a strong case cannot be made on empirical grounds in support of or in opposition to differential speed limits\". Another study said that two thirds (67%) of truck/passenger car crashes are the fault of the passenger vehicle.\n\nThe basic speed rule requires drivers adjust speeds to the conditions. This is usually relied upon to regulate proper night speed reductions, if required. Numeric night speed limits, which generally begin 30 minutes after sunset and end 30 minutes before sunrise, are occasionally used where, in theory, safety problems require a speed lower than what is self-selected by drivers.\n\nExamples include:\n\n\nSome states create arbitrary night speed limits applicable to entire classes of roads. Until September 2011, Texas had a statutory night speed limit for all roads with a higher limit. Montana has a statutory night speed limit on all federal, state, and secondary roads except for Interstates.\n\nTraffic violations can be a lucrative income source for jurisdictions and insurance companies. For example:\n\nThus, an authority that sets and enforces speed limits, such as a state government, regulates and taxes insurance companies, who also gain revenue from speeding enforcement. Furthermore, such an authority often requires \"all\" drivers to have policies with those same companies, solidifying the association between the state and auto insurers. If a driver cannot be covered under an insurance policy because of high risk, the state will assume that high risk for a greater monetary amount; thus resulting in even more revenue generation for the state.\n\nWhen a speed limit is used to generate revenue but has no safety justification, it is called a speed trap. The town of New Rome, Ohio was such a speed trap, where speeding tickets raised up to $400,000 per year to fund the police department of a 12-acre village with 60 residents.\n\nReduced speed limits are sometimes enacted for air quality reasons. The most prominent example includes Texas' environmental speed limits.\n\nEither of the following qualifies a crash as speed-related in accordance with U.S. government rules:\n\nSpeeds in excess of speed limits account for most speed-related traffic citations; generally, \"driving too fast for conditions\" tickets are issued only after an incident where the ticket issuer found tangible evidence of unreasonable speed, such as a crash.\n\nA criticism of the \"exceeding speed limits\" definition of speeding is twofold:\n\nVariable speed limits offer some potential to reduce speed-related crashes. However, due to the high cost of implementation, they exist primarily on freeways. Furthermore, most speed-related crashes occur on local and collector roads, which generally have far lower speed limits and prevailing speeds than freeways.\n\nMost states have absolute speed limits, meaning that a speed in excess of the limit is illegal per se. However, some states have prima facie speed limits. This allows motorists to defend against a speeding charge if it can be proven that the speed was in fact reasonable and prudent.\n\nSpeed limits in Texas, Utah, and Rhode Island are prima facie. Some other states have a hybrid system: speed limits may be prima facie up to a certain speed or only on certain roads. For example, speed limits in California up to 55 mph, or 65 mph on highways, are prima facie, and those at or above those speeds are absolute.\n\nA successful prima facie defense is rare. Not only does the burden of proof rest upon the accused, a successful defense may involve expenses well in excess of the cost of a ticket, such as an expert witness. Furthermore, because prima facie defenses must be presented in a court, such a defense is difficult for out-of-town motorists.\n\nMetric speed limits are no longer included in the Federal Highway Administration's Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), which provides guidelines for speed limit signage, and therefore, new installations are not legal in the United States. Prior to 2009, a speed limit could be defined in kilometers per hour (km/h) as well as miles per hour (mph). The 2003 version of the MUTCD stated that \"speed limits shown shall be in multiples of 10 km/h or 5 mph.\" If a speed limit sign indicated km/h, the number was circumscribed and \"km/h\" was written below. Prior to 2003, metric speed limits were designated using the standard speed limit sign, usually with yellow supplemental \"METRIC\" and \"km/h\" plaques above it and below it, respectively.\n\nIn 1995, the National Highway System Designation Act prohibited use of federal funds to finance new metric signage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "145636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145636", "title": "The Devil and Daniel Webster", "text": "The Devil and Daniel Webster\n\n\"The Devil and Daniel Webster\" is a short story by Stephen Vincent Benét. This Faustian tale was inspired by Washington Irving's short story \"The Devil and Tom Walker\". Benet's story centers on a New Hampshire farmer who sells his soul to the devil and is defended by Daniel Webster, a fictional version of the famous statesman, lawyer and orator.\n\nThe story appeared in \"The Saturday Evening Post\" (October 24, 1936) and was later published in book form by Farrar & Rinehart, 1937. That same year, it won the O. Henry Award. The author also adapted it in 1938 into a folk opera with music by Douglas Stuart Moore, a fellow Yale University alumnus, member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and winner of a Pulitzer Prize.\n\nFarmer Jabez Stone, from the small town of Cross Corners, New Hampshire, is plagued with unending bad luck, causing him to finally swear \"it's enough to make a man want to sell his soul to the devil!\" Stone is visited the next day by a stranger, who later identifies himself as \"Mr. Scratch\", and makes such an offer in exchange for seven years of prosperity. Stone agrees.\n\nAfter seven years, Mr. Scratch comes for Stone's soul. Stone bargains for an additional three years; after the additional three years passes, Mr. Scratch refuses any further extension. Wanting out of the deal, Stone convinces famous lawyer and orator Daniel Webster to accept his case.\n\nAt midnight of the appointed date, Mr. Scratch arrives and is greeted by Webster, presenting himself as Stone's attorney. Mr. Scratch tells Webster, \"I shall call upon you, as a law-abiding citizen, to assist me in taking possession of my property,\" and so begins the argument. It goes poorly for Webster, since the signature and the contract are clear and Mr. Scratch will not compromise.\n\nIn desperation Webster thunders, \"Mr. Stone is an American citizen, and no American citizen may be forced into the service of a foreign prince. We fought England for that in '12 and we'll fight all hell for it again!\" To this Mr. Scratch insists on his citizenship, citing his presence at the worst events of the U.S., concluding, \"though I don't like to boast of it, my name is older in this country than yours.\"\n\nWebster demands a trial as the right of every American. Mr. Scratch agrees after Webster says that he can select the judge and jury, \"so long as it is an American judge and an American jury.\" A jury of the damned then enters, \"with the fires of hell still upon them.\" They had all done evil, and had all played a part in the formation of the United States:\n\nAfter five other unnamed jurors enter (Benedict Arnold being out \"on other business\"), the judge enters last – John Hathorne, the infamous and unrepentant executor of the Salem witch trials.\n\nThe trial is rigged against Webster. He is ready to rage, without care for himself or Stone, but he catches himself: he sees in the jurors' eyes that they \"want\" him to act thus. He calms himself, \"for it was him they'd come for, not only Jabez Stone.\"\n\nWebster starts to orate on simple and good things – \"the freshness of a fine morning...the taste of food when you're hungry...the new day that's every day when you're a child\" – and how \"without freedom, they sickened.\" He speaks passionately of how wonderful it is to be human and to be an American. He admits the wrongs done in the course of American history but points out that something new and good had grown from them and that \"everybody had played a part in it, even the traitors.\" Mankind \"got tricked and trapped and bamboozled, but it was a great journey,\" something \"no demon that was ever foaled\" could ever understand.\n\nThe jury announces its verdict: \"We find for the defendant, Jabez Stone.\" They admit, \"Perhaps 'tis not strictly in accordance with the evidence, but even the damned may salute the eloquence of Mr. Webster.\" The judge and jury disappear with the break of dawn. Mr. Scratch congratulates Webster, and the contract is torn up. The devil has overreached himself, agreeing to a jury trial out of pride in his unbreakable contract. But by doing so, he has put his contract within the reach of the Common Law used in America, under which a jury can enter whatever verdict it likes, regardless of the law. Webster's eloquence in swaying this supposedly unswayable jury is remarkable, but would have gone to no effect without the devil's pride-induced mistake in giving Webster a chance.\n\nWebster then grabs the stranger and twists his arm behind his back, \"for he knew that once you bested anybody like Mr. Scratch in fair fight, his power on you was gone.\" Webster makes him agree \"never to bother Jabez Stone nor his heirs or assigns nor any other New Hampshire man till doomsday!\"\n\nMr. Scratch offers to tell Webster's fortune in his palm. He foretells Webster's failure to become President, the death of Webster's sons, and the backlash of his last speech, warning \"Some will call you Ichabod\" (as in John Greenleaf Whittier's poem in reaction to Webster's controversial Seventh of March speech supporting the Compromise of 1850 that incorporated the Fugitive Slave Act). Scratch predicts actual events of Daniel Webster's life: he did have ambitions to become President, his sons died in the American Civil War and as a result of the Seventh of March speech, many in the North considered Webster to be a traitor.\n\nWebster takes the predictions in stride and asks only if the Union will prevail. Scratch reluctantly admits that, although a war will be fought over the issue, the United States will remain united. Webster then laughs, \"And with that he drew back his foot for a kick that would have stunned a horse. It was only the tip of his shoe that caught the stranger, but he went flying out of the door with his collecting box under his arm.\" It is said that the devil never did come back to New Hampshire again.\n\nPatriotism is a main theme in the story: Webster claims that the Devil cannot take the soul because he cannot claim American citizenship. \"And who with better right?\" the devil replies, going on to list several wrongs done in the U.S., thereby demonstrating his presence in the U.S.. The devil says \"I am merely an honest American like yourself — and of the best descent — for, to tell the truth, Mr. Webster, though I don't like to boast of it, my name is older in this country than yours.\"\n\nWebster insists on a jury trial as an American right, with Americans for the jury and an American judge. The devil then provides the worst from Webster's perspective, (and certainly, they are in Hell) examples of Americans for the judge and jury. In Daniel's speech \"He was talking about the things that make a country a country, and a man a man\" rather than legal points of the case. For Webster, freedom and independence defines manhood: \"Yes, even in hell, if a man was a man, you'd know it.\"\n\nThis theme of American patriotism, freedom and independence is the explanation for Webster's victory: the jury is damned to hell, but they are American and therefore so independent that they can resist the devil. However, in reality many of the jury would not have classed themselves as Americans, as Governor Dale, Morton, Hathorne, and Blackbeard were English, and King Phillip was a Wampanoag. Butler and Girty would have called themselves Americans – and indeed were Americans – but they were Loyalists, and Webster might not have intended any but U.S. citizens. Classifying the jurors as \"Americans\" involves a wider definition, including all who had a part in its history – even those who lived and died as English subjects before 1775, the Loyalists who actively opposed the creation of the U.S., and those Indians (like King Philip) who interacted with the new civilization. Scratch underlines this definition by saying of the jury \"Americans all\".\n\nIn his speech, Webster denounces slavery. Earlier, he states flatly \"A man is not a piece of property.\" Later, there is this description \"And when he talked of those enslaved, and the sorrows of slavery, his voice got like a big bell.\" Benét acknowledges the evil by having the devil say: \"When the first wrong was done to the first Indian, I was there. When the first slaver put out for the Congo, I stood on her deck.\" As for Webster, \"He admitted all the wrong that had ever been done. But he showed how, out of the wrong and the right, the suffering and the starvations, something new had come. And everybody had played a part in it, even the traitors.\"\n\nThe real Daniel Webster was willing to compromise on slavery in favor of keeping the Union together, disappointing some radical abolitionists, but he held that only the preservation of the Union could keep anti-slavery forces active in the slave areas. This desire to end the institution was a mainspring of his support for the Union.\n\nThe story may be seen as ambivalent on the treatment of the Native Americans. Webster states \"If two New Hampshiremen aren't a match for the devil, we might as well give the country back to the Indians.\" However, the stranger/Satan remarks that \"When the first wrong was done to the first Indian, I was there\", which implies the author's acknowledgement that the Indians were sometimes wronged. \"King Philip, wild and proud as he had been in life, with the great gash in his head that gave him his death wound\" is noted as a notorious villain of American history (the historical King Philip (Metacomet), died from a gunshot to the heart, not a gash to the head).\n\nYet later on, Daniel Webster's appeal to the jury on \"what it means to be American\" specifically includes King Philip among \"the Americans\". This is an anachronism, as the historical Daniel Webster was closer to the events and would have been unlikely to express such an opinion. The narrator also expresses sympathy for King Philip when he tells us that one juror \"heard the cry of his lost nation\" in Webster's eloquent appeal.\n\nThese ambiguities probably reflect ambivalent perceptions of this aspect of American history in the 20th century at the time of writing, rather than at the time when the story is supposed to take place.\n\nThe devil is portrayed as polite and refined. When the devil arrives he is described as \"a soft-spoken, dark-dressed stranger,\" who \"drove up in a handsome buggy.\" The names Benét gives the devil—\"Mr. Scratch\" or \"the stranger\"—were both used around New England and other parts of the pre-Civil-War United States: \"Perhaps Scratch will do for the evening. I'm often called that in these regions.\" These terms are taken primarily from \"The Devil and Tom Walker\" (1824) by Washington Irving, who usually calls the devil \"Old Scratch\".\n\nTwo film adaptations have been made: an Academy Award-winning 1941 film first released under the title \"All That Money Can Buy\", starring Edward Arnold as Daniel, Walter Huston as Mr. Scratch, James Craig as Jabez Stone, and Simone Simon as Belle; and \"Shortcut to Happiness\", a modernized version set in the publishing world, starring Anthony Hopkins as a publisher named Daniel Webster, Alec Baldwin as a bestselling but terrible author named Jabez Stone, and Jennifer Love Hewitt as a female version of the devil. This most recent version was made in 2001, but never had a wide theatrical release.\n\nAn animated television film loosely based on the story, \"The Devil and Daniel Mouse\", was released in 1978.\n\nPhil Reisman, Jr. adapted the story for a live television performance of \"The Devil and Daniel Webster\" on \"Breck Sunday Showcase\" (NBC, Feb 14, 1960, 60 min), starring Edward G. Robinson (Daniel Webster), David Wayne (Mr. Scratch), and Tim O'Connor (Jabez Stone). A color videorecording of the production aired two years later on \"Breck Golden Showcase\" (CBS, Apr 30, 1962).\n\n\"Each of these adaptations used the original story title, unless otherwise indicated:\"\n\nCharles R. Jackson's adaptation aired on \"Columbia Workshop\" (CBS, Aug. 6, 1938, 30 min), with music by Bernard Herrmann.\n\nEdward Arnold, Walter Huston, and James Craig reprised their 1941 film roles in the \"All That Money Can Buy\" episode of \"Cavalcade of America\" (NBC Red Network, Oct. 20, 1941, 30 min). Howard Teichmann and Robert L. Richards abridged and adapted the screenplay.\n\nJean Holloway's adaptation aired on \"Hallmark Playhouse\" (CBS, June 10, 1948, 30 min); cast: John McIntire (Daniel Webster), Alan Reed (Mr. Scratch), Frank Goss (Jabez Stone).\n\nEdward Arnold again played Daniel Webster for \"The Prudential Family Hour of Stars\" (CBS, Sept. 18, 1949, 30 min).\n\nWalter Huston again reprised his 1941 film role in the \"All That Money Can Buy\" episode of \"Theatre Guild on the Air\" (NBC, April 30, 1950, 60 min); Cornel Wilde and Martha Scott co-starred.\n\nBenét adapted his story as a play, \"The Devil and Daniel Webster: A Play in One Act\" (New York: Dramatists Play Service, 1938), and also as a folk opera, \"The Devil and Daniel Webster: An Opera in One Act\" (New York: Farrar & Rinehart, 1939), music by Douglas Moore (Moore and Benét had earlier collaborated on an operetta, \"The Headless Horseman\" [1937], based on Washington Irving's short story \"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow\" [1820]).\n\nArchibald MacLeish, a friend and associate of Benét's in the 1930s and until his death in 1943, also adapted the story as a play: \"Scratch\" (Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1971). On Broadway very briefly, \"Scratch\" starred Will Geer in the title role and Patrick Magee as Webster.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12361276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12361276", "title": "USADIP", "text": "USADIP\n\nUSADIP (United States Army Deserter Information Point) serves as the focal point for U.S. Army deserter reporting by U.S. Army commanders. Its mission is to maintain, verify, and disseminate information on regular Army, Army Reserve and Army National Guard deserters to military and civilian law enforcement agencies and U.S. Army commanders; to enter and maintain active Army deserters into the Wanted Person File of the FBI National Crime Information Center in order to effect the return to military control of Army deserters.\n\nOnce a soldier surrenders or is arrested, USADIP is notified and extradition is arranged by the U.S. Army installation responsible for that area of extradition in conjunction with the soldier's parent unit. (Per AR 190-45).\n"}
{"id": "8570212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8570212", "title": "Undue hardship", "text": "Undue hardship\n\nAn undue hardship is special or specified circumstances that partially or fully exempt a person or organization from performance of a legal obligation so as to avoid an unreasonable or disproportionate burden or obstacle.\n\nFor example, employers are required to provide a reasonable accommodation to qualified individuals with disabilities, but when an accommodation becomes too taxing on the organization it is classified as an undue hardship and is no longer required. \nThese hardships include the nature and cost of the accommodation in relation to the size, resources, nature, and structure of the employer's operation.\n\n"}
{"id": "11760547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11760547", "title": "Unrelated Business Income Tax", "text": "Unrelated Business Income Tax\n\nUnrelated Business Income Tax (UBIT) in the U.S. Internal Revenue Code is the tax on unrelated business income, which comes from an activity engaged in by a tax-exempt 26 USCA 501 organization that is not related to the tax-exempt purpose of that organization.\n\nFor most organizations, a business activity generates unrelated business income subject to taxation if:\nA trade or business includes the selling of goods or services with the intention of having a profit. An activity is regularly carried on if it occurs with a frequency and continuity, similar to what a commercial entity would do if it performed the same activity. An activity is substantially related to furthering the exempt purpose of the organization if the activity contributes importantly to accomplishing the organization's purpose, other than for the sake of producing the income itself.\n\nA university runs a pizza parlor that sells pizza to students and non-students alike. The university is a tax-exempt organization and its pizza parlor generates unrelated business income. While the tuition and fees generated by the university are tax exempt, its income from the pizza parlor is not tax-exempt because the pizza parlor is unrelated to the university's education purpose.\n\nA counter-example is a social-service nonprofit that holds a one-time bake sale. While the sale is unrelated to their mission, it is tax-exempt because it is not regularly carried on. Business activities of an exempt organization ordinarily are considered regularly carried on if they show a frequency and continuity, and they are pursued in a manner similar to comparable commercial activities of nonexempt organizations.\n\nIf a nonprofit organization receives income from providing services to outside entities and the performance of those services does not further the organization's mission of the organization, the income may be unrelated business income.\n\nIf a nonprofit organization sells advertising in print or on the organization's web site, the income is typically unrelated business income if the advertisements promote the advertiser's business and not the nonprofit organization.\n\nIf a nonprofit organization licenses its intangible property and promotes an outside entity's business, the income may be unrelated business income. On the other hand, if the nonprofit organization licenses its intangible property and performs no other services related to the licensing, then the income is consider passive income and it is typically not unrelated business income.\n\nIf a nonprofit organization has ownership in an S corporation, the income from the S corporation is typically unrelated business income. Gain or loss from the sale of stock in the S corporation stock is also typically unrelated business income.\n\nUnder Internal Revenue Code section 514, property held for the production of income and subject to acquisition or improvement indebtedness is typically unrelated business income.\n\nIn most of the above examples, the income may not be considered unrelated business income if the activity is not regularly carried on or if the organization does not intend to recognize a gain from the activity.\n\nCertain types of income are not considered unrelated business income, such as income from dividends; interest; royalties; rental of real property; research for a federal, state, or local government; and charitable contributions, gifts, and grants.\n\nIn addition, unrelated business income does not include income derived from the work of unpaid volunteers, income from the sale of donated goods, income from trade shows and conventions, income from legal gaming.\n\nThe Internal Revenue Service does not consider the receipt of assets from a closely related tax-exempt organization to be unrelated business income.\n\nThe IRS taxes unrelated business income at the corporate tax rates (IRC section 11) except for certain section 511(b)(2) trusts which are taxed at trust tax rates.\n\nIndividual retirement accounts generally are subject to tax on income that is taxable to most U.S. tax-exempt entities under 26 U.S.C. §511. 26 U.S.C. §408 contains many of the rules governing the treatment of Individual retirement accounts. §408(e)(1) states: \"Any individual retirement account is exempt from taxation under this subtitle unless such account has ceased to be an individual retirement account by reason of paragraph (2) or (3). Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, any such account is subject to the taxes imposed by section 511 (relating to imposition of tax on unrelated business income of charitable, etc. organizations).\"\n\nIn addition, the IRS unequivocally confirms this in the first few paragraphs of Chapter 1 of the November 2007 revision of Publication 598 that IRAs are \"subject to the tax on unrelated business income.\"\n\nThe primary way investors have tried to limit the reach of the UBIT tax is by employing a strategy known as a \"C Corp Blocker.\" The \"C Corp Blocker\" strategy involves the retirement account holder establishing a C Corporation and then investing the retirement funds into the C Corporation before the funds are ultimately invested into the planned investment. For example, if a retirement account investor is seeking to invest retirement funds into a business operated through a LLC, she can establish a C Corporation, invest her IRA funds through the C Corporation, and then have the C Corporation invest the funds into the business LLC. All income received by the C Corporation would be subject to the new reduced corporate tax rate of 21%, which is less than the 37% maximum UBIT tax rate and less than the old maximum corporate tax rate of 35%.\n\nSince at least 1928, tax-exempt organizations could earn tax-free income from both mission-related activities and commercial business activities that were unrelated to the purpose for which they were exempt, as long as they used the net profits for exempt purposes.\n\nIn 1947, a group of wealthy alumni donated C.F. Mueller Company, a pasta manufacturing company, to New York University Law School with the intention of the company's profits being used to fund the law school's educational activities. C.F. Mueller Company did not pay income tax on its profits because it now considered itself a charitable organization. The Internal Revenue Service challenged it. New York University Law School won the case because, at that point, tax-exempt organizations were not subject to income tax on their revenue from any source as long as the revenue was used towards the organization's tax-exempt purpose.\n\nIn 1950, Congress amended the tax law to introduce the concept of unrelated business income. Congress enacted the law because it was concerned about nonprofit organizations having an unfair advantage competing in the same activities as for-profit organizations. From that point on, revenue would be considered tax-exempt based on the source of the funds, rather than the use of the funds.\n"}
{"id": "37139104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37139104", "title": "V. C. vs. Slovakia", "text": "V. C. vs. Slovakia\n\nV.C. vs Slovakia was the first case in which the European Court for Human Rights ruled in favor of a Romani woman who was a victim of forced sterilization in the state hospital in Slovakia. It is one of many cases of forced sterilization of Roma women brought to the Court by the Slovak feminist group Center for Civil and Human Rights from Košice.\n\nThe woman, known by the initials V.C., was forcibly sterilized in the state hospital, Prešov Hospital, in Eastern Slovakia on 23 August 2000, during the delivery of her second child. According to her medical records, shortly before her delivery was terminated by caesarean section, and while she was in labour and having contractions every three minutes, the hospital staff pressured her to sign a one sentence declaration as \"a request for sterilization\". She was told that unless she signed that declaration, she or her baby would die. V.C. did not understand what sterilization meant but she signed nonetheless, in fear for her life. She was sterilized during the procedure.\n\nLater, she learned that the sterilization was not necessary for saving her life, since it is merely a form of contraception. V.C. was greatly traumatized by the forced sterilization. Her husband divorced her, she was ostracized by the community, experienced a hysterical pregnancy, and had to undergo psychiatric counselling.\n\nIn 2004, V.C. sued for damages from the Prešov hospital in Slovakian courts, including the Constitutional Court of Slovakia. All her petitions were rejected. In 2007, she brought a complaint against Slovakia to the European Court. The European Court held a hearing into the case on 22 March 2011. On 8 November 2011 the Court found a violation of her rights; her right to freedom from inhuman and degrading treatment (under Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights) and the right to private and family life (under Article 8 of the Convention). The Court rejected the claims of the Slovak Government that sterilization was \"medically necessary\" since sterilization is not a life-saving surgery and V.C.'s informed consent was needed. In the court's view, the approach of the Prešov Hospital was not compatible with the Convention as it did not permit V.C. to take a decision of her own free will, after consideration of all the relevant issues.\n\nThe Slovak Government was ordered to pay V.C. compensation of 31,000 EUR and reimbursement of her legal costs.\n\n"}
{"id": "26188644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26188644", "title": "Victim playing", "text": "Victim playing\n\nVictim playing (also known as playing the victim, victim card or self-victimization) is the fabrication of victimhood for a variety of reasons such as to justify abuse of others, to manipulate others, a coping strategy or attention seeking.\n\nVictim playing by abusers is either:\n\nIt is common for abusers to engage in victim playing. This serves two purposes:\n\nManipulators often play the victim role (\"poor me\") by portraying themselves as victims of circumstances or someone else's behavior in order to gain pity or sympathy or to evoke compassion and thereby get something from someone. Caring and conscientious people cannot stand to see anyone suffering, and the manipulator often finds it easy and rewarding to play on sympathy to get cooperation.\n\nWhile portraying oneself as a victim can be highly successful in obtaining goals over the short-term, this method tends to be less successful over time:\n\nVictim playing is also: \n\nThe language of \"victim playing\" has entered modern corporate life, as a potential weapon of all professionals. To define victim-players as dishonest may be an empowering response; as too may be awareness of how childhood boundary issues can underlay the tactic.\n\nIn the hustle of office politics, the term may however be abused so as to penalize the legitimate victim of injustice, as well as the role-player.\n\nTransactional analysis distinguishes real victims from those who adopt the role in bad faith, ignoring their own capacities to improve their situation. Among the predictable interpersonal \"games\" psychiatrist Eric Berne identified as common among by victim-players are \"Look How Hard I've Tried\" and \"Wooden Leg\". \n\nR. D. Laing considered that \"it will be difficult in practice to determine whether or to what extent a relationship is collusive\" – when \"the one person is predominantly the passive 'victim'\", and when they are merely playing the victim. The problem is intensified once a pattern of victimization has been internalised, perhaps in the form of a double bind.\n\nObject relations theory has explored the way possession by a false self can create a permanent sense of victimisation – a sense of always being in the hands of an external fate. \n\nTo break the hold of the negative complex, and to escape the passivity of victimhood, requires taking responsibility for one's own desires and long-term actions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26016805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26016805", "title": "War Powers Act of 1941", "text": "War Powers Act of 1941\n\nThe War Powers Act of 1941, also known as the First War Powers Act, was an American emergency law that increased Federal power during World War II. The act was signed by U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt and put into law on December 18, 1941, less than two weeks after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. The act was similar to the Departmental Reorganization Act of 1917 as it was signed shortly before the U.S. engaged in a large war and increased the powers of the president's U.S. Executive Branch.\n\nThe act gave the President enormous authority to execute World War II in an efficient manner. The president was authorized to reorganize the executive branch, independent government agencies, and government corporations for the war cause. With the act, the President was allowed to censor mail and other forms of communication between the United States and foreign countries. The act and all changes created by its power were to remain intact until six months after the end of the war at which time, the act would become defunct.\n\nThree months after passing the first, the Second War Powers Act was passed on March 27, 1942. This further strengthened the executive branch powers towards executing World War II. This act allowed the acquisition, under condemnation if necessary, of land for military or naval purposes. Some provisions of the Hatch Act of 1939 were also suspended which reduced naturalization standards for aliens within the U.S. Armed Forces. In addition, it created methods for war-related production contracting along with adjusting several other aspects of government affairs. The Second War Powers Act repealed the confidentiality of census data, allowing the FBI to use this information to round up Japanese-Americans.\n\nUnder Secretary of War Robert P. Patterson retroactively delegated his authority from the President under the War Powers Act of 1941 to Leslie Groves for the Manhattan Project. The authority, given in a memorandum to Groves dated April 17, 1944, was retroactive to September 1, 1942. The written delegation was only given in 1944 when Grove's deputy Kenneth Nichols was about to sign a large contract with Du Pont, and it was found that he only had a low delegated authority, as Nichols' higher authority for the Manhattan Project had only been given verbally by General Styer to his predecessor Colonel James C. Marshall.\n\n\n\n"}
