{"id": "407643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=407643", "title": "27th century", "text": "27th century\n\nThe 27th century of the anno Domini (common) era will span from January 1, 2601–December 31, 2700 of the Gregorian calendar.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3032446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3032446", "title": "Admiral's Men", "text": "Admiral's Men\n\nThe Admiral's Men (also called the Admiral's company, more strictly, the Earl of Nottingham's Men; after 1603, Prince Henry's Men; after 1612, the Elector Palatine's Men or the Palsgrave's Men) was a playing company or troupe of actors in the Elizabethan and Stuart eras. It is generally considered the second most important acting troupe of English Renaissance theatre (after the company of Shakespeare, the Lord Chamberlain's or King's Men).\n\nThey were first known as the Lord Howard's Men, named after their patron Charles Howard, 1st Earl of Nottingham. The company played once at Court on December 1576 (the play was called \"Tooley\"), again on 17 February 1577 (\"The Solitary Knight\"), and a third time the following Christmas season, 5 January 1578 (all dates new style). They toured widely, from Bath to Nottingham, in the years 1577–79.\n\nA powerful patron like Howard could make a great difference in a company's fortunes. Though there is little evidence that he was actively concerned with drama, Howard was almost alone among Elizabeth's closest councillors in opposing the Lord Mayor of London's 1584 drive to close the public theatres. The theatres stayed open.\n\nWhen Howard became England's Lord High Admiral in 1585, the group's name was changed to reflect his new title. They performed regularly in the provinces and at Court in the 1585–87 period; but a fatal accident at one of their performances forced them into a temporary retirement. (During a performance in London on 16 November 1587, stage gunfire went wrong, killing a child and a pregnant woman.) But they returned to activity with two performances at Court in the winter of 1588–9, on 29 December and 11 February.\n\nDespite the power of their patron, the Admiral's Men were not entirely free of official interference. Both they and the Lord Strange's Men were stopped from playing by the Lord Mayor of London in November 1589; it seems that Edmund Tilney, the Master of the Revels, had taken a dislike to their choice of plays. During this period of difficulty the Admiral's Men moved into James Burbage's The Theatre for a time (November 1590 to May 1591), and there they played \"Dead Man's Fortune\" with a young Richard Burbage in the cast — the only time that the later competitors Burbage and Edward Alleyn, the longtime star of the Admiral's, are known to have acted together.\n\nIf the Admiral's Men were having difficulties in the City in this period, they were still welcome at Court (28 December 1589; 30 March 1590), and still popular in the towns and shires, where they toured more in 1589–90. Indeed, this was perhaps the height of their achievement: in these years Alleyn was making a sensation acting the heroes of Christopher Marlowe. \"Tamburlaine\" was printed in 1590 with their name on its title page. Some of the plays of Robert Greene, and Thomas Lodge's \"The Wounds of Civil War,\" were also in their repertory in the early 1590s.\n\nIt was during the later 1580s that the company established its long-term relationship with Philip Henslowe, theatre builder, producer, impresario. Henslowe's Rose Theatre was home to the Admiral's Men for a number of years, and Henslowe played a key role as a blend of manager and financier. After the major disruption of the 1592–94 era, when the public theatres endured a long closure due to bubonic plague, the Admiral's Men entered another lush period in 1594 and after.\n\nThe re-constituted company resumed performances on 14 May 1594, with \"The Jew of Malta\" and two anonymous and lost plays, \"The Ranger's Comedy\" and \"Cutlack\". The Admiral's Men had Edward Alleyn as their leading man; other personnel included George Attewell, Thomas Downton, and James Tunstall, all veterans of the earlier pre-1592 version of the Admiral's, and Richard Jones, a former mate of Alleyn's and Tunstall's in Worcester's Men in the 1580s. (Jones and Downton would defect to Pembroke's Men in early 1597, only to be caught up in their disastrous performance of \"The Isle of Dogs\", and return to the Admiral's by the end of that year.) Attewell was a \"jigging\" clown, known for his dancing; when Richard Tarlton had died in 1588, Attewell had taken over the job of dancing a jig at the end of each performance of the Queen Elizabeth's Men. John Singer, another clown with the Queen Elizabeth's company, also joined the Admiral's in 1594; other members included Edward Juby, Martin Slater, and Thomas Towne. The company's repertory came to feature plays by George Chapman, William Haughton, and Anthony Munday, among many other poets.\n\nThe survival of Henslowe's so-called Diary (actually an account book kept by Henslowe and others in his organization) provides scholars with more detailed information about the Admiral's Men in this era than is available for any contemporaneous acting troupe. Among other points, the Diary illustrates the enormous demands the Elizabethan repertory system placed upon the actors. In the 1594–95 season, the Admiral's Men generally performed six days a week, and staged a total of 38 plays; 21 of these were new plays, introduced at a rate of approximately one every two weeks — but only eight were acted again in subsequent seasons. The next season, 1595–96, demanded 37 plays, including 19 new ones; and the following year, 1596–97, 34 plays, 14 new. The company consistently played the works of Marlowe throughout this era. \"Tamburlaine Part 1\" was acted 14 times in the 1594–95 season, followed by \"Doctor Faustus\" (12 performances), \"The Massacre at Paris\" (10), \"The Jew of Malta\" (9), and \"Tamburlaine Part 2\" (6). Taken altogether, the most popular play over this 1594–97 period was the anonymous \"The Wise Man of Westchester,\" which has not survived yet was acted 32 times over the three years, debuting on 3 December 1594 and last played on 18 July 1597. Earlier scholars speculated that it might be an alternative title for Anthony Munday's \"John a Kent and John a Cumber\", though no firm evidence supports this idea.\n\nHenslowe had interests in other theatres, including the Fortune Theatre (built in 1600); the Admiral's Men moved into the new venue, and when the lease ran out on The Rose in 1605 it was abandoned. The company prospered, at least moderately, in its new location: in 1600 a share in the Admiral's Men (one out of a total of ten) was worth £50, while in 1613 a share (one of twelve) was valued at £70.\n\nSometime in the winter of 1603–4, after the House of Stuart succeeded to the throne of England, the Admiral's Men acquired a new patron, Prince Henry (1594–1612), later the Prince of Wales (1610–12). Edward Alleyn retired from the stage in 1604, though he was involved with the company as their Fortune Theatre landlord. During this period their core cohort of players consisted of William Bird, Thomas Towne, Samuel Rowley, Charles Massey, Humphrey and Anthony Jeffes, Edward Juby, and Thomas Downton (who'd been part of the 1597 production of \"The Isle of Dogs\"). Edward Juby was the company's payee for Court performances, which suggests that he had significant responsibility for the troupe's finances.\n\nThe company was known as Prince Henry's Men until the Henry's early death (6 November 1612), after which they came under the patronage of his new brother-in-law, Frederick V, Elector Palatine. Their new patent of 11 January 1613 lists six of the actors of the previous decade, Juby, Bird, Rowley, Massey, Downton, and Humphrey Jeffes, plus six new sharers, who included John Shank, later a long-time member of the King's Men, and Richard Gunnell, who would become a theatre manager and impresario by building the Salisbury Court Theatre with William Blagrave in 1629.\n\nThe company suffered a major set disaster when the Fortune Theatre burned down on 9 December 1621, destroying their stocks of playscripts and costumes. The owner, Edward Alleyn, rebuilt it in 1623, in brick, at a cost of £1000. The actors moved back in, though recovery was difficult. They persisted for years, but endured a long-term decline in reputation. The company finally collapsed in 1631; after a re-organization, a troupe with some of the same personnel received royal patronage under the name of the infant Prince Charles, the future Charles II, and became the second iteration of Prince Charles's Men at the Salisbury Court Theatre. In December 1631 the Fortune Theatre, vacated by the Admiral's/Palsgrave's company, received the King's Revels Men from the Salisbury Court for the next few years (1631–33).\n\nThe Admiral's Men acted a huge repertory of plays during their long career; Henslowe's Diary lists dozens from the 1597–1603 period alone. Unfortunately, most of these plays have not survived; they exist only as titles (sometimes provocative titles, like \"The Boss of Billingsgate,\" or \"Mahomet,\" or \"Judas\"). The list that follows is a selection of noteworthy surviving plays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1304791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1304791", "title": "Alexander Hislop", "text": "Alexander Hislop\n\nAlexander Hislop (1807 - 13 March 1865) was a Free Church of Scotland minister known for his criticisms of the Roman Catholic Church. He was the son of Stephen Hislop (died 1837), a mason by occupation and an elder of the Relief Church. Alexander's brother was also named Stephen Hislop (lived 1817–1863) and became well known in his time as a missionary to India and a naturalist.\n\nAlexander was born and raised in Duns, Berwickshire. He was for a time parish schoolmaster of Wick, Caithness. In 1831 he married Jane Pearson. He was for a time editor of the \"Scottish Guardian\" newspaper. As a probationer he joined the Free Church of Scotland at the Disruption of 1843. He was ordained in 1844 at the East Free Church, Arbroath, where he became senior minister in 1864. He died of a paralytic stroke in Arbroath the next year after being ill for about two years.\n\nHe wrote several books, his most famous being \"The Two Babylons: Papal Worship Proved to be the Worship of Nimrod and His Wife\".\n\nThis book was initially published in 1853 as a pamphlet, then greatly revised and expanded and released as a book in 1858. \n\nIn this book, Hislop argued that the Catholic Church was a Babylonian mystery cult, and pagan, whereas Protestants worshipped the true Jesus and the true God. He believed that Roman Catholic religious practices are pagan practices grafted onto true Christianity during the reign of Constantine. At this point, the merger between the Roman state religion and its adoration of the mother and child was transferred to Christianity, merging Christian characters with pagan mythology. The Goddess was renamed \"Mary\", and Jesus was the renamed \"Jupiter-Puer\", or \"Jupiter the Boy\".\n\nHislop believed that the goddess, in Rome called Venus or Fortuna, was the Roman name of the more ancient Babylonian cult of Ishtar, whose origins began with a blonde-haired and blue-eyed woman named Semiramis.\n\nAccording to Hislop, Semiramis was an exceedingly beautiful woman, who gave birth to a son named Tammuz, was instrumental as the queen, and wife of Nimrod the founder of Babylon, and its religion, complete with a pseudo-Virgin Birth. Later, Nimrod was killed, and Semiramis, pregnant with his child, claimed the child was Nimrod reborn. \n\nHislop attempted to show that the cult and worship of Semiramis spread globally, her name changing with the culture. In Egypt she was Isis, in Greece and Rome she was called Venus, Diana, Athena, and a host of other names, but was always prayed to and central to the faith which was based on Babylonian mystery religion. According to Hislop, Constantine, though claiming to convert to Christianity, remained pagan but renamed the gods and goddesses with Christian names to merge the two faiths for his political advantage.\n\nConstantine's endorsement of the tradition was a turning point for Early Christianity. In 313, Constantine issued the Edict of Milan legalizing Christian worship. The emperor became a great patron of the Church, and set a precedent for the position of the Christian Emperor within the Church and the notion of orthodoxy, Christendom, and ecumenical councils that would be followed for centuries as the State church of the Roman Empire.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "866026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=866026", "title": "Ancient planter", "text": "Ancient planter\n\n\"Ancient planter\" was a term applied to early colonists who migrated to the Colony of Virginia in what is now the United States, when the colony was managed by the Virginia Company of London. They received land grants if they stayed in the colony for at least three years. Under the terms of the \"Instructions to Governor Yeardley\" (issued by the London Company in 1618), these colonists received the first land grants in Virginia.\n\nThese land grants constituted a dividend paid out by the Virginia Company of London, which was constituted as a joint stock company. Under the terms of the Second Charter, issued in 1609, the Company offered shares for twelve pounds ten shillings per share, to be invested and reinvested for seven years. Those men who ventured to Virginia in person, investing their time and risking their lives, would each be counted as holding one share.\n\nIn 1616, at the end of the administration of Sir Thomas Dale, the first dividend became due and payable to all who had invested, whether by the purchase of shares or by \"personal adventure\". However, since the colony had not prospered, there was no money to divide. Instead, the Company offered grants of land. Colonists who had paid their own passage to Virginia received a \"first dividend\" of , free of quit-rent, for their \"personal adventure\", and an additional hundred acres for each share they owned in the London Company:\n\nThose who had been brought at the Company's expense (as indentured servants) also received 100 acres for their \"personal adventure\", but in their case the land was subject to an annual rent of one shilling per 50 acres:\n\nColonists who arrived after the departure of Sir Thomas Dale were entitled to a lesser grant of 50 acres. The London Company reasoned that \"... by the singular Industry and virtue of the said Sir Thomas Dale the former Difficulties and Dangers were in greatest part overcome to the great ease and security of such as have been since that time transported thither\". In other words, those who had come earlier received twice as much land, supposedly in recognition of the greater risks and hardships they had endured. Of course, reducing the size of the grant to 50 acres also saved the hard-pressed Company a great deal of money, and the later colonists can scarcely be said to have experienced the \"great ease and security\" mentioned by the Company; the death rate continued extremely high.\n\nThe phrase \"Ancient Planter\" was not an honorific; it was simply a descriptive term, as used in the \"Instructions\", for a planter of long standing.\n\nAccording to a letter from John Rolfe dated January 1619/20: \nAll the Ancient Planters being sett free have chosen places for their dividends according to the Comyssion. Which giveth all greate content, for now knowing their owne landes, they strive and are prepared to build houses & to clear their groundes ready to plant, which giveth great encouragement and the greatest hope to make the Colony florrish that ever yet happened to them.\n\nBecause the surviving historical records are incomplete, and sometimes demonstrably inaccurate, it is not possible to compile a definitive list of Ancient Planters.\n\nThe database of Colonial Land Office Patents at the Library of Virginia is the principal source of information as to the identities of those who received grants as Ancient Planters. Though the record does not begin until 1623, when administration of the colony was taken over by the Crown, many of the subsequent patents identify \"ancient planters\", or provide information which shows that a tract of land must have been originally granted under the terms applying to Ancient Planters.\n\nAdditional information comes from the 1624/5 Muster, a census ordered as part of the handover of the colony from the Virginia Company to the Crown. For some of the colonists, the census includes information on the year and ship of arrival. In many cases this valuable information is missing.\n\nAlso as part of the transition to Crown Colony status, a list of grants was compiled in 1625 and sent to London. This list does not identify the Ancient Planters as such, but in some cases knowledge of the grant combined with information from other sources (e.g., knowledge of the date of arrival) is enough to show that the planter in question must have received the grant as an Ancient Planter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54097476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54097476", "title": "Anton Fahne", "text": "Anton Fahne\n\nAnton F. Fahne (February 28, 1805 – January 12, 1883) was a German author, jurist, genealogist and historian.\n\nFahne was born in Münster and studied medicine at the University of Bonn and law at the Humboldt University of Berlin. He produced several genealogical and local historical writings. Fahne helped to found the Historischen Verein für den Niederrhein (Historical Society of the Lower Rhine) in 1854.\n\nFahne died in Düsseldorf. He was buried at the Gerresheimer Waldfriedhof in Düsseldorf-Gerresheim. His estate manages the Historical Archive of the City of Cologne.\n\nIt is a common mistake that Anton Fahne and Friedrich von Uechtritz are the same person.\n\n"}
{"id": "7812230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7812230", "title": "Archie Duncan (historian)", "text": "Archie Duncan (historian)\n\nArchibald Alexander McBeth Duncan, FBA, FRHistS, FRSE (17 October 1926 – 20 December 2017) was a Scottish historian.\n\nFrom 1962 to 1993 he was Professor of Scottish History and Literature at the University of Glasgow. On giving up his professorship, he became Clerk of Senate and Dean of Faculties, retiring from the University in 2000. Since 2001 he has been Emeritus Professor of Scottish History and Literature, but continued to publish on the history of Scotland in the Middle Ages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36243341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36243341", "title": "Bargaon", "text": "Bargaon\n\nBargaon is an archaeological site of the Indus Valley Civilisation. It is in Saharanpur District, Uttar Pradesh, India.\n\nThis site belongs to late Harappan period,with a mixture of Ochre Coloured Pottery.\n\n\nLocation of Bargaon in IVC \n"}
{"id": "7842058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7842058", "title": "Blas Valera", "text": "Blas Valera\n\nBlas Valera was born in Levanto, Chachapoyas, Peru, in 1545.\n\nValera is considered to be the son of Luis Valera, one of the men who accompanied Pizarro in the conquest of the Inca Empire. He established himself in this city since its foundation. The mother of this outstanding Chachapoyano writer was Francisca Pérez, a native who had taken this name after being baptized.\n\nThe circumstance that he was born in 1545, less than 20 years after the fall of the Inca Empire, allowed him to meet many of its prominent men and also old \"amautas\", that transmitted and entrusted him the events that he later narrated in his works.\n\nHe did his first studies in Trujillo and then continued them in Lima. Considering his knowledge of Quechua, he took part in the missions that Jesuits had established in Huarochirí, an important pre-Hispanic center of worship that at the beginning of the 17th century was the location of the most intense eradication campaign of idolatry, carried out by Francisco de Ávila.\n\nHe took an active part in the III Concilio Limense of 1583. Father Valera died in Alcalá de Henares, Spain on 2 April 1597.\n\nHis priestly vocation made him travel to Lima when he was still a teenager. When he was 17, he joined the Compañía de Jesús (Society of Jesus), where he gave excessive samples of his top intelligence since he began his priestly studies.\n\nBut at the same time he was preparing for the religious ministry, his love for the Peruvian history was also growing and, in his insistence of knowing about Peruvian past better, he devoted himself to the study of native languages. He became the biggest authority of his time in this subject.\n\nThis skill made that people entrusted him missions in which his linguistic knowledge was necessary, which simultaneously allowed him to keep on increasing his data gathering, collecting information from the authentic sources of all the places he was visiting.\n\nValera was a special case in those times: a bilingual mestizo and well-educated. He was entrusted with the compilation of news from the pre-Hispanic civilization, but the suspicions that his sympathies towards the Inca culture raised made that the Compañía closed the access of mestizos in the order and they supposed a negative opinion of him.\n\nBecause of his knowledge of native languages, he was a valuable collaborator of father José de Acosta, who prepared the first catechisms in Quechua and Aymara. These catechisms deserved the approval of Toribio de Mogrovejo.\n\nOn the other hand, there are evidences that Valera was accused of heresy because he include some favourable comments to the Inca Empire. He was shut in by the Jesuits for a brief period.\n\nFather\n\nMother\n\nBrother\n\nLuckily this man, who had the opportunity to know people who were able to provide very valuable information to him, was provided with a remarkable talent that distinguished him from his very early studies. Since he was a very young man, he could realize how important was, for the Peruvian history, to compile data information about the great Inca culture, which was already becoming extinct as fast as the western culture was imposing in this country.\n\nAll his works were written in Latin and, according to his critics, they were written in an elegant, neat and clean style. He narrated events of Peruvian past with a rigorous critical sense, accepting only the events that were supported by irrefutable evidence. This fact has given the authority to his writings that Garcilaso recognized in them. Many other historians have coincided with Garcilaso's judgment later. Some of them also believed that in other chroniclers' works, there are plagiarisms of the work of this venerable Jesuit and even the clandestine use of unpublished documents that he could not release.\n\nIn 1595, being in Spain, Valera lost valuable writings in the plundering of Cadiz made by the Englishmen. Some of them were acquired later by Garcilaso, who relates that they were provided him by the Jesuit Pedro Maldonado. Maldonado saved the documents, and even though they were burnt and mistreated, Garcilaso thought that they were a valuable source of information with more authenticity and credibility than any other chronicler of the epoch.\n\nDuring Blas Valera's lifetime he had many important jobs and roles throughout Peru and Spain. He is most famously known as being a member of the Society of Jesus, also known as a Jesuit. He was a priest where he taught Christian teachings and performed many sacraments which included baptism, marriage and extreme unction (last rites). He was also concerned with explaining Andean religion in Christian terms and he led spiritual discussions and communal prayer every Wednesday and Friday. Blas Valera was also a writer. He wrote many great works including the Quechua vocabulary Vocabulario Quechua and the Naples Documents. In many of Valera's documents is he known for defending the Andean society. Along with being a priest and a writer, Valera was also a teacher. He taught free Quechua classes to the public and translated Christian religion into Quechua. He also translated the Catholic Catechism into Quechua-Third Lima Council Bishops.\n\nAmong his works were:\n\nThe \"Vocabulario\" was one of Blas Valera's works which resembled an encyclopedia of Peru and the Incas. It references information on the history of the Incas. Citations from the document can be found in other writers’ works. For example, Giovanni Anello Oliva cited references from the \"Vocabulario\" of pre-Inca kings of Peru for his argument that there were Peruvian kings before the Incas. Anello Oliva also Valera's argument that Titu Atauchi, a full brother of Atahuallpa, led a force in the defeat over Spanish forces at the battle of Huamachuco. It also cites Atahuallpa which the \"Vocabulario\" gives high praise to and even argues he's a Christian saint in heaven, displaying Valera's stance of Andean Christianity. The sources which he used when writing the \"Vocabulario\" and other works, do not fully reveal the amount of knowledge he obtained about the native history. Much of the information he used Valera acquired through memories, quipus, and written texts of native elites in Peru, which also have been mostly lost except for information contained in his works. Much of the information contained in the \"Vocabulario\" has been lost, and the information which has not, has been used for citing other historians’ arguments about the history of the Incas and the Andean civilization.\n\nBlas Valera (1544–1597) was a distinguished member of the Jesuit missionaries in Peru. He was admired for his knowledge of the Andean language, and renowned for his collaboration in the translation of the official catechism of the Third Lima Council (1582–1583) into Quechua and Aymara. However, in 1583 this storyteller of the Incas, due to unknown reasons, faced rejection from his people, was imprisoned for three years, and later deported from Spain where he supposedly died in 1597.\n\nHowever, Blas Valera remained an ambiguous character of history until the early 1990s in which a group of Italian researchers led by Laura Laurencich Minelli discovered a set of documents owned by a private collector in Naples, which included Valera's writings; yet, with the discovery of these documents, questions to the accuracy of Valera's life arouse. Controversially, one of the writings found in the Naples documents was dated after Valera's supposed death in 1597. This erratum of dates led to the assumptions of different versions of the truth. The documents stated that Valera was secretly condemned by his order for his radical pro-Incan beliefs, and especially for his claim that Incan religion was equivalent to Christianity. There is a version in the documents that assures that after having faked his death, Valera returned to Peru where he wrote the famous \"Nueva Corónica y Buen Gobierno\" (New chronicle and good government), which has been attributed to the native writer Felipe Guaman Poma de Ayala.\n\nThe revelation of the \"Naples documents\", has led to controversial disputes among scholars as to how these documents should be evaluated. Many Andeanists consider the manuscript as forgeries fabricated by the owner Clara Miccinelli and her friend Carlo Animato and argue that the content of these documents cannot be taken literal. Likewise, Francesa Cantú, from the Universitá di Roma, and Maurizio Gnerre, from the Instituto Universitario Orientale, also found documents in public archives in Italy that connect with aspects of the story found in the Naples documents. Likewise, these two scholars have also been accused of manufacturing false documentation. Moreover, many Peruvians argue that the Naples documents were forged by Jesuit followers of Valera after his death in order to express political opinions, which would otherwise be censured by Society. Those pertaining to this chain of thought, also argue that Valera did not write \"Nueva Coronica y Buen Gobierno.\" Lastly, there are those who believe that the Naples documents are authentic and true regarding his fake death and life.\n\nIn addition, the discovery of the Naples documents not only raises questions with regards to Valera's life, but also raises assumptions that the Incas had a secret, phonetic writing system and that the writings in \"Nueva Coronica y Buen Gobierno\" are evidence of indigenous resistance to Spanish domination. Valera's discrete crimes show an attachment to his people, his radical condemnation of the Spanish conquest, and his belief that the Incas understood the key Christian truths. The Naples Documents also talk about Quipu writing, which is supposed to be a phonetic form of language that supposedly was used by the Incas, if this is true, many of the secrets and ambiguities from the colonial Andes would be solved.\n\nLately a few supposed new information on Blas Valera's biography have started to circulate. The most controversial one talks about \"Nueva Crónica y Buen Gobierno\" (A new Chronic and a Good Government), of Felipe Guaman Poma de Ayala. According to specialist Laura Laurencich Minelli, there are three sheets of paper with drawings in the \"Historia et Rudimenta Linguae Piruanorum\" that have the signature of an \"Italian Jesuit\", Blas Valera. According to Minelli, these drawings were made before 1618, that is to say, some years after the official death of Valera.\n\nApparently, the objective of Valera in Europe was to tell the Pope the truth about the conquest of Peru made by Pizarro, who would have poisoned Atahualpa's soldiers with a mixture of arsenic and wine. This fact was told to Valera by another conqueror, his own father, Luis Valera. The general of the Compañía, Claudio Aquaviva, didn't agree with Valera's intentions, for this reason he was declared a dead person and was exiled. He went to Spain, where he supposedly shared part of his works with the Inca Garcilaso de la Vega.\n\nLater, it is said that Valera returned to Peru secretly with the intention of publishing his version of the Peruvian conquest. he got in touch with other two Jesuits: Joan Antonio Cumis and Joan Anello Oliva. To carry out their intention, the three of them had to hide the identity of the real author, so they used the name of Huaman Poma de Ayala. When he carried out his assignment, Blas Valera would have returned to Spain in 1618, where he supposedly died a little time later.\n\nOne of the major controversies about Blas Valera was the dates in which he was in prison, and when he was in exile. While many believe that Blas Valera was constantly in prison, there were times that it Sabine Hyland proved Valera was in exile by the Jesuits, south of Peru. After he was arrested by the Jesuits with the accuse of fornication, he was sent secretly to exile by the Spanish government. While in exile is believed that Valera taught the Quechan language to the Jesuits, so the Jesuits were able to communicate with the Incas, and understand what they were saying with the Quipus.\n\nBlas Valera entered his underground prison cell in April 1583 on charges of fornication brought on by General Aquaviva. Valera's sentence started with four years in prison, followed by a follow up hearing. During this four-year stay in prison, Valera suffered forced fasting, prayer and weekly mortification. After the four years had passed, the Jesuits offered Valera a chance to leave the society. He of course rejected the offer and continued to claim innocence. As a result, the Jesuits sentenced him to six years of house arrest. Due to the horrible conditions in prison, Valera had grown very ill. He requested to be sent back to Spain to recover and get away. The Jesuits approved his request, and exiled him to Spain in 1594. Blas Valera died in Spain in 1597. The controversy of Valera's imprisonment comes from the actual crime he committed against the society. According to the Jesuits, after Valera's appointment to professor of grammar in Potosí, Aquavia sent a letter of concern to the society about Valera in February 1583. The contents of this letter are secret, but historians suspect it dealt with Valera's teachings. Following this letter, in April 1583 the society brought charges of fornication and found him guilty. The fornication supposedly took place with one of Valera's female students. The Naples Documents show another story untold by the Jesuits. According to the documents, Valera's writings on Inca religion and potential heretical techniques had caused the society to take action against him. No evidence has ever been uncovered to prove either of these indictments brought against Valera.\n\nAfter being exiled from Peru, Valera arrived in Cádiz in 1596. Valera continued a peaceful life until later on that year pirate Robert Devereux invaded Cadiz beating local priests. Valera at the age of 53 was mortally wounded and would die on April 2, 1597.\nHowever, some argue Valera's death in Cadiz was faked and he came back to Peru to complete other works. Anello Oliva wrote about Valera's faked death in the \"Historia et Rudimenta\". Apparently, Valera was given a choice to leave the Jesuits or fake his own death. Not wanting to leave the Jesuit society, Valera faked his own death in Cadiz 1596, after Devereux roamed the city beating priests. Valera left Cadiz and headed back to Peru in June 1598, where he resided with a group of natives in Cuzco. It is believed Valera wrote the \"Nueva coronica y buen gobierno\" at the age of sixty-six. Valera's work was attributed to Guaman Poma, since Valera was supposedly dead. If Valera secretly wrote the Nueva about Andean life, this will change modern understanding of the Incas and early colonial life in Peru. Anello Oliva argues that Valera contributed to writings in the Naples Documents, but some believe that Anello Oliva used Valera's name as a means to respect the dead Valera and publish anti-Spanish beliefs that were forbidden at the time. But, there is no reliable evidence to Valera's death did not occur in 1597.\n\n"}
{"id": "20839575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20839575", "title": "Century leap year", "text": "Century leap year\n\nIn the Gregorian calendar, a year ending in \"00\" that is divisible by 400 is a century leap year, with the intercalation of February 29 yielding 366 days instead of 365. Century years (divisible by 100) that are \"not\" divisible by 400 are not leap years but common years of 365 days. For example, the years 1600, 2000, and 2400 are century leap years since those numbers are divisible by 400, while 1700, 1800, 1900, 2100, 2200, and 2300 are common years despite being divisible by 4. Leap years divisible by 400 always start on a Saturday; thus the leap day February 29 in those years always falls on a Tuesday (dominical letter BA).\n\nThe Gregorian calendar yields an average year that currently tracks the annual revolution period of the Earth more closely than the older Julian calendar, in which every fourth year (including end-of-century years) is a leap year. The Julian formula adds too many leap days (3 every 400 years), causing the Julian calendar to drift gradually with respect to the astronomical seasons. Over time, natural events such as the spring equinox began to occur earlier and earlier in the Julian calendar.\n\nThe Gregorian calendar was introduced in 1582, but was adopted by various countries over several centuries, with the result that some countries still used the older Julian calendar while others used the Gregorian calendar. Dates prior to 1582 are generally calculated using the Julian calendar, and different countries have different conventions about dates between 1582 and their adoption of the Gregorian calendar. (See, for example, Old Style and New Style dates.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49730752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49730752", "title": "Date of birth of Jesus", "text": "Date of birth of Jesus\n\nThe date of birth of Jesus is not stated in the gospels or in any secular text but most scholars assume a date of birth between 6 BC and 4 BC. The historical evidence is too incomplete to allow a definitive dating, but the date is estimated through two different approaches—one by analyzing references to known historical events mentioned in the nativity accounts in the Gospels of Luke and Matthew, and the second by working backwards from the estimation of the start of the ministry of Jesus.\n\nThe nativity accounts in the New Testament gospels of Matthew and Luke do not mention a date or time of year for the birth of Jesus, and Karl Rahner states that the gospels do not, in general, provide enough details of dates to satisfy the demands of modern historians. Mainstream scholars do not see the Luke and Matthew nativity stories as historically factual, and for this reason, they do not consider them a reliable method for determining Jesus' date of birth. Karl Rahner states that the authors of the gospels generally focused on theological elements rather than historical chronologies.\n\nBoth Luke and Matthew associate Jesus' birth with the time of Herod the Great. states that \"Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judaea in the days of Herod the king\". He also implies that Jesus could have been as much as two years old at the time of the visit of the Magi, because Herod ordered the murder of all boys up to the age of two years, \"in accordance with the time he had learned from the Magi\". Most scholars agree that Herod died in 4 BC, although a case has also been made that Herod died only in 1 BC.\n\nMost scholars believe Luke made an error in referring to the census. Raymond E. Brown notes that \"most critical scholars acknowledge a confusion and misdating on Luke's part\". As a result, most scholars generally accept a date of birth between 6 and 4 BC, the year in which Herod died. Tertullian believed some two centuries later that a number of censuses were performed throughout the Roman world under Saturninus at the same time. However some conservative Christian biblical scholars and commentators still believe the two accounts can be harmonised, arguing that the text in Luke can be read as \"registration \"before\" Quirinius was governor of Syria\", i.e. that Luke was actually referring to a completely different census. Geza Vermes has described such approaches as \"exegetical acrobatics\".\n\nAs far as the month of Jesus' birth, it can be inferred to be summer or fall. Combining inferences from when shepherds would likely be in the fields and working backward from Zechariah's priestly service (John the Baptist's father) and its connections to Jesus' birth, one arrives at a likely date of mid-September to early October. This would suggest the conception of Jesus might have been in December, but not his birth.\n\nAnother approach to estimating the year of birth works backwards from when Jesus began preaching, based on the statement in that he was \"about 30 years of age\" at that time. Jesus began to preach after being baptised by John the Baptist, and based on Luke’s gospel John only began baptising people in \"the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar\" (), which scholars estimate would be in about AD 28–29. By working backwards from this, it would appear that Jesus was probably born no later than 1 BC. However, if the phrase \"about 30\" is interpreted to mean 32 years old, this could fit a date of birth just within the reign of Herod, who died in 4 BC.\n\nThis date is independently confirmed by John's reference in to the Temple being in its 46th year of construction during Passover when Jesus began his ministry, which corresponds to around 27–29 AD according to scholarly estimates.\n\nDespite the celebration of Christmas in December, neither Luke nor Matthew mentions a season for when Jesus was born. However, scholarly arguments regarding the realism of shepherds grazing their flock during the winter have taken place, both challenging a winter birth for Jesus as well as defending it by relying on the mildness of winters in ancient Israel and rabbinic rules regarding sheep near Bethlehem before February.\n\nAlexander Murray of \"History Today\" says that the celebration of Christmas as the birth day of Jesus is based on a date of a pagan feast rather than historical analysis. Saturnalia, the Roman feast for Saturn, was associated with the winter solstice. Saturnalia was held on 17 December of the Julian calendar and later expanded with festivities through to 23 December. The holiday was celebrated with a sacrifice at the Temple of Saturn, in the Roman Forum, and a public banquet, followed by private gift-giving, continual partying, and a carnival atmosphere that overturned Roman social norms. It is likely that such a Christian feast was chosen for Christ's marked contrast and triumph over paganism; indeed, new converts who attempted to introduce pagan elements into the Christian celebrations were sharply rebuked.\n\nDecember 25 may have been selected due to its proximity to the winter solstice, because of its theological significance. After the solstice, the days begin to lengthen with more sunlight, which Christians see as representing the Light of Christ entering the world. This mirrors the celebration of the Nativity of Saint John the Baptist on June 24, near the summer solstice; John said of Jesus \"He must increase, I must decrease.\" \n\nIn the 1st and 2nd centuries, the Lord's Day (Sunday) was the earliest Christian celebration and included a number of theological themes. In the 2nd century, the Resurrection of Jesus became a separate feast as Easter and in the same century Epiphany began to be celebrated in the Churches of the East on 6 January. The festival of the Nativity which later turned into Christmas was a 4th-century feast in the Western Church notably in Rome and North Africa, although it is uncertain exactly where and when it was first celebrated.\n\nThe earliest source stating 25 December as the date of birth of Jesus is likely by Hippolytus of Rome, written very early in the 3rd century, based on the assumption that the conception of Jesus took place at the Spring equinox which he placed on 25 March, and then added nine months – festivals on that date were then celebrated. 25 March would also roughly be the date of his crucifixion, which ancient Christians would have seen as confirming the date of his birth, since there was a notion that the great prophets were conceived into the afterlife on the same date they were conceived into the world. John Chrysostom also argued for a 25 December date in the late 4th century, basing his argument on the assumption that the offering of incense in Luke 1:8–11 was the offering of incense by a high priest on Yom Kippur (early October), and, as above, counting fifteen months forward. However, this was very likely a retrospective justification of a choice already made rather than a genuine attempt to derive the correct birth date.\n\nLastly, 25 December might be a reference to the date of the Feast of the Dedication, which occurs on the 25 Kislev of the Jewish calendar. This would require that early Christians simply translated Kislev directly to December.\n\nIn Islam, the Quran references a fruit branch which Mary shook as she gave birth. This fruit, the date, is known to ripen during the summer months.\n\n"}
{"id": "366124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=366124", "title": "Elephantine papyri", "text": "Elephantine papyri\n\nThe Elephantine Papyri consist of 175 documents from the Egyptian border fortresses of Elephantine and Syene (Aswan), which yielded hundreds of papyri in Hieratic and Demotic Egyptian, Aramaic, Greek, Latin and Coptic, spanning a period of 2000 years. The documents include letters and legal contracts from family and other archives, and are thus an invaluable source of knowledge for scholars of varied disciplines such as epistolography, law, society, religion, language and onomastics. They are a collection of ancient Jewish manuscripts dating from the 5th century BCE. They come from a Jewish community at Elephantine, then called \"ꜣbw\". The dry soil of Upper Egypt preserved documents from the Egyptian border fortresses of Elephantine and Syene (Aswan). Hundreds of these Elephantine papyri, written in Hieratic and Demotic Egyptian, Aramaic, Greek, Latin and Coptic, span a period of 1000 years. Legal documents and a cache of letters survived, turned up on the local 'gray market' of antiquities starting in the late 19th century, and were scattered into several Western collections.\n\nThough some fragments on papyrus are much older, the largest number of papyri are written in Aramaic, the \"lingua franca\" of the Persian Empire, and document the Jewish community among soldiers stationed at Elephantine under Persian rule, 495–399 BCE. The Elephantine documents include letters and legal contracts from family and other archives: divorce documents, the manumission of slaves, and other business, and are a valuable source of knowledge about law, society, religion, language and onomastics, the sometimes surprisingly revealing study of names.\n\nThe 'Passover letter' of 419 BCE (discovered in 1907), which gives detailed instructions for properly keeping the passover is in the Egyptian Museum of Berlin.\n\nFurther Elephantine papyri are at the Brooklyn Museum. The discovery of the Brooklyn papyri is a remarkable story itself. The documents were first acquired in 1893 by New York journalist Charles Edwin Wilbour. After lying in a warehouse for more than 50 years, the papyri were shipped to the Egyptian Department of the Brooklyn Museum. It was at this time that scholars finally realized that \"Wilbour had acquired the first Elephantine papyri\".\n\nThe Jews had their own temple to Yahweh evincing polytheistic beliefs, which functioned alongside that of Khnum.\n\nExcavation work done in 1967 revealed the remains of the Jewish colony centered on a small temple.\n\nThe \"Petition to Bagoas\" (Sayce-Cowley collection) is a letter written in 407 BCE to Bagoas, the Persian governor of Judea, appealing for assistance in rebuilding the Jewish temple in Elephantine, which had recently been badly damaged by an antisemitic rampage on the part of a segment of the Elephantine community.\n\nIn the course of this appeal, the Jewish inhabitants of Elephantine speak of the antiquity of the damaged temple:\n\nThe community also appealed for aid to Sanballat I, a Samaritan potentate, and his sons Delaiah and Shelemiah, as well as Johanan ben Eliashib. Both Sanballat and Johanan are mentioned in the Book of Nehemiah, , .\n\nThere was a response of both governors (Bagoas and Delaiah) which gave the permission by decree to rebuild the temple written in the form of a memorandum:\n\"Memorandum of what Bagohi and Delaiah said to me, saying: Memorandum: You may say in Egypt ... to (re)build it on its site as it was formerly...\".\n\nBy the middle of the 4th century BCE, the temple at Elephantine had ceased to function. There is evidence from excavations that the rebuilding and enlargement of the Khnum temple under Nectanebo II (360–343) took the place of the former temple of YHWH.\n\nIn 2004, the Brooklyn Museum of Art created a display entitled \"Jewish Life in Ancient Egypt: A Family Archive From the Nile Valley,\" which featured the interfaith couple of Ananiah, an official at the temple of Yahou (a.k.a. Yahweh), and his wife, Tamut, who was previously an Egyptian slave owned by a Jewish master, Meshullam. Some related exhibition didactics of 2002 included comments about significant structural similarities between Judaism and the ancient Egyptian religion and how they easily coexisted and blended at Elephantine.\n\nThe papyri suggest that, \"Even in exile and beyond, the veneration of a female deity endured.\" The texts were written by a group of Jews living at Elephantine near the Nubian border, whose religion has been described as \"nearly identical to Iron Age II Judahite religion\". The papyri describe the Jews as worshiping Anat-Yahu (or AnatYahu). Anat-Yahu is described as either the wife (or paredra, sacred consort) of Yahweh or as a hypostatized aspect of Yahweh.\n\nThe eight papyri contained at the Brooklyn Museum concern one particular Jewish family, providing specific information about the daily lives of a man called Ananiah, a Jewish temple official; his wife, Tamut, an Egyptian slave; and their children, over the course of forty-seven years. Egyptian farmers discovered the archive of Ananiah and Tamut on Elephatine Island in 1893, while digging for fertilizer in the remains of ancient mud-brick houses. They found at least eight papyrus rolls which were purchased by Charles Edwin Wilbour. He was the first person to find Aramaic papyri. The papyri have been grouped here by topic, such as marriage contract, real estate transaction, or loan agreement.\n\nAncient marriage documents generally formalized already existing relationships. In this case, Ananiah and Tamut already had a young son when the document was drawn up. Because Tamut was a slave when she married Ananiah, the contract has special conditions: usually, it was the groom and his father-in-law who made Jewish marriage agreements, but Ananiah made this contract with Tamut's master, Meshullam, who legally was her father. In addition, special provision was made to free the couple's son, also a slave to Meshullam; perhaps Ananiah consented to the small dowry of either 7 or 15 shekels (the text is ambiguous) in order to obtain his son's freedom. Future children, however, would still be born slaves. In contrast to Jewish documents like this one, contemporaneous Egyptian marriage documents were negotiated between a husband and wife.\n\nNearly twenty-two years after her marriage to Ananiah, Tamut's master released her and her daughter, Yehoishema, from slavery. It was rare for a slave to be freed. And though a slave could marry a free person, their children usually belonged to the master. As an institution, slavery in Egypt at that time differed in notable ways from the practice in some other cultures: Egyptian slaves retained control over personal property, had professions, and were entitled to compensation. During the Persian Period in Egypt, it was not uncommon to sell children, or even oneself, into slavery to pay debts.\n\nThis document to the right describes a property purchased by Ananiah, twelve years after his marriage, from a Persian soldier named Bagazust and his wife, Ubil. The property, in a town on Elephantine Island, named for the god Khnum, was located across the street from the Temple of Yahou and adjacent to the Persian family of Ubil's Father. As such proximity might suggest, the Egyptians, Jews, and Persians in Elephantine all lived among one another. The renovation of the house and its gradual transfers to family members are the central concerns of the next several documents in Ananiah's family archive.\n\nThree years after purchasing the house from Bagazust and Ubil, Ananiah transferred ownership of an apartment within the now renovated house to his wife, Tamut. Although Tamut thereafter owned the apartment, Ananiah required that at her death it pass to their children, Palti and Yehoishema. As with all property transfers within a family, this gift was described as made \"in love\". Image of document in gallery.\n\nDrawn up thirty years after the preceding papyrus, this document is one of several that gradually transferred ownership of Ananiah and Tamut's house to their daughter, Yehoishema, as payment on her dowry. The legal descriptions of the house preserve the names of Ananiah's neighbors. They included an Egyptian who held the post of gardener of the Egyptian god Khnum and, on the other side, two Persian boatmen. Image of document in gallery.\n\nFor his daughter Yehoishema's dowry, Ananiah had transferred to her partial ownership of the house he shared with Tamut. After making more repairs to the building, Ananiah transferred a further section of the house, described in this document, to the dowry. Image of document in gallery.\n\nThis papyrus records the sale of the remaining portion of Ananiah and Tamut's house to Yehoishema's husband. Possibly because the clients were dissatisfied with something the scribe had written, at one point the text of the document breaks off and then starts over again, repeating what has gone on before with some additions. The boundary description included here refers to the Temple of Yahou in Elephantine, now rebuilt eight years after its destruction in 410 BCE during a civil war conflict that arose out of a land dispute. Image of document in gallery below.\n\nSometime in December 402 BCE, Ananiah son of Haggai borrowed two monthly rations of grain from Pakhnum son of Besa, an Aramaean with an Egyptian name. This receipt would have been held by Pakhnum and returned to Ananiah son of Haggai when he repaid the loan. No interest is charged but there is a penalty for failing to repay the loan by the agreed date. The receipt demonstrates that friendly business relations continued between Egyptians and Jews in Elephantine after the expulsion of the Persians by pharaoh Amyrtaios of the 28th Dynasty. Image of document is in gallery below.\n\n"}
{"id": "37718899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37718899", "title": "Elizabeth Wood-Ellem", "text": "Elizabeth Wood-Ellem\n\nDr Elizabeth Wood-Ellem (10 September 1930 – 8 September 2012) was a Tongan-born Australian historian actively engaged in the life of Tonga and author of the definitive biography of Queen Sālote Tupou III of Tonga.\n\nBorn Elizabeth Olive Wood near Nuku'alofa, Tonga, she was often known as Bess or Pesi Wood. She was a daughter of Reverend Dr A. Harold Wood OBE (1896–1989), a renowned Methodist then Uniting Church minister and educator, and medical Dr Olive K. Wood (née O'Reilly), who were Australian missionaries in Tonga 1924-37. She had five brothers and sisters, including Janet Secomb, herself a missionary to Tonga, actor Monica Maughan and Uniting Church minister and hymnologist Rev. Dr H. D'Arcy Wood.\n\nMoving to Australia in 1937, Elizabeth was educated Methodist Ladies' College in Melbourne where, in her final year, she topped the state in Greek and Roman History.\n\nAt Melbourne University, she majored in English and History, gaining a BA in 1953, and would later undertake her PhD there.\n\nWood-Ellem earned her living as a book editor and indexer, initially at Angus & Robertson in Sydney, then London (1960-1972) with Macmillan and Paul Hamlyn, and later worked freelance. She was also appointed an archivist at King's College, Cambridge University, to sort and catalogue the papers of British novelist E. M. Forster after his death in 1970. Churchill College, Cambridge, then engaged her as Assistant Librarian for Archives to catalogue Sir James Grigg's papers and A.V. Alexander's correspondence.\n\nShe completed a PhD in Tongan history in 1982 at the University of Melbourne and remained a Senior Fellow there at the time of her death. She published her biography of Queen Sālote of Tonga in 1999. Fairfax’s Pacific correspondent Mike Field has said of it:\n\n‘If I were nominate a single, superb book on the Pacific, \"Queen Sālote of Tonga: The Story of an Era 1900-1965\" is one of the finest pieces of historical research and insight, anthropology and understanding of Tonga that you’ll ever find. You don’t even have to be vaguely interested in Queen Sālote, but in how Tonga works.’\n\nNotable books she edited include \"The Songs and Poems of Queen Sālote\" (2004) and \"Tonga and the Tongans: Heritage and Identity\" (2007).\n\nIn 2008, King George Tupou V recognised her singular contribution to Tonga by bestowing on her the title of Commander of the Order of the Crown of Tonga.\n\nNotable books she edited include:\n"}
{"id": "27297264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27297264", "title": "Erebuni Museum", "text": "Erebuni Museum\n\nErebuni Museum (, ) was established in 1968. The opening of the museum was timed to coincide with the 2750th anniversary of Yerevan. The Museum stands at the foot of the Arin Berd hill, on top of which the Urartian Fortress Erebouni has stood since 782 BCE. The City-Fortress was excavated, some parts of the structure were reinforced and restored, and the fortress was turned into an outdoor Museum. \n\nA cuneiform inscription testifies that the city was built by Argishti I the King of Urartu in 782 BCE. The majority of the fortress was built from raw bricks. The citadel was encircled by strong walls in some places built in three rows. The temple of God Khaldi occupied an important place in the fortress. The walls of the temple were decorated with numerous frescos. Archeologists have found giant karasses (pitches for storage of wine) buried in the ground. Ceramics, potter’s wheels and other articles used in everyday life were also unearthed during excavations. There is huge collection of artifacts, sups, jars, bronze bracelets, glass, agate beads and many other things that tell us about the life of the citadel, the tastes and habits of its inhabitants. The building of the Museum that houses 12,235 exhibits was constructed by architects Baghdasar Arzoumanian and Shmavon Azatian and sculptor A. Harutiunian. It has two branches in Shengavit and Karmir Blur with 5,288 and 1,620 exhibits respectively in stock.\n\nGagik Gyurjyan has been the director of the museum since 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "45462418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45462418", "title": "Francesco Saverio Quadrio", "text": "Francesco Saverio Quadrio\n\nFrancesco Saverio Quadrio (1 December 1695 – 21 November 1756) was an Italian scholar, historian, and writer. His most famous work is \"Della storia e della ragione di ogni poesia\", a voluminous history of poetry, theatre, and music.\n\nQuadrio was born in Ponte in Valtellina. He joined the Jesuits and trained as a scholar, but finding himself uncomfortable with religious life, became suspicious and despondent, and suffered poor health from mental stress. In 1744, having received permission for a country sojourn, he reached a decision on the high road near Como to leave the order and proceeded to Switzerland, where he lived for some time, refusing offers from Protestant scholarly associations and becoming involved in several controversies. He next moved to Paris, where he met Voltaire. Finally, Pope Benedict XIV, having always treated him with decided forbearance, provided him assistance, and he retired to a convent of Barnabites. He died in Milan.\n\nHis most important work is the seven-volume Della storia e della ragione di ogni poesia (Bologna/Milan, 1739–1752), \"an elaborate history of poetry, which,\" according to the 1863 \"Imperial Dictionary of Universal Biography\", \"bears the stamp of conscientiousness and unsparing industry, but has been judged inaccurate, and as regards English literature is singularly jejune and inadequate.\" The 1819 \"Cyclopaedia; or, Universal Dictionary of Arts, Sciences, and Literature\" writes: \"The author seems a mere compiler, without selection, taste, or accuracy. It is a heavy work, hardly interesting enough to stimulate a regular perusal; and from the disorder of arrangement, very difficult to consult.\" Barbara Reynolds, writing in \"The New Grove Dictionary of Opera\" (1992), points out that it includes much valuable information on the history of music and early instruments, including illustrations. Volumes 2 and 3 contain articles on \"melodramma\", oratorio, and cantata. Volume 3, part 2 (pp. 425–563), which has lists of singers, actors, writers, stage designers, costume designers, and inventors of stage machinery, and comments on production, is \"invaluable for historians of opera.\"\n\nQuadrio also published, among other works, the \"Dissertazioni critico-storiche intorno alla Rezia di qua dalle Alpi, oggi detta Valtellina\" (1755), which testifies to his learning and has a preface explaining his motives in changing his calling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5382967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5382967", "title": "George Hourmouziadis", "text": "George Hourmouziadis\n\nGeorge Hourmouziadis (; 26 November 1932 – 16 October 2013) was a Greek archaeologist and Professor Emeritus of prehistoric archaeology at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. He led excavations in many prehistoric settlements in Thessaly and Macedonia (such as Dimini, Arkadikos Dramas etc.) and in 1992 he started the excavation of the neolithic lakeside settlement of Dispilio in Kastoria, Northwestern Greece. A myriad of items were discovered, which included ceramics, structural elements, seeds, bones, figurines, personal ornaments, three flutes (considered the oldest in Europe) and the Dispilio Tablet. He died on 16 October 2013 in Thessaloniki.\n\nThe discovery of the wooden tablet was announced at a symposium in February 1994 at the University of Thessaloniki. The site's paleoenvironment, botany, fishing techniques, tools and ceramics were published informally in the June 2000 issue of Επτάκυκλος, a Greek archaeology magazine and in Hourmouziadis (2002).\n\n"}
{"id": "16333528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16333528", "title": "Gero von Merhart", "text": "Gero von Merhart\n\nGero Merhart von Bernegg (17 October 1886 – 4 March 1959) was a German archaeologist. Although he worked at the same time when German nationalism and Nazi archaeology was dominant in Germany, he was not a \"Nazi archaeologist\". He came into conflict with Hans Reinerth.\n"}
{"id": "3264093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3264093", "title": "Giuseppe Lugli", "text": "Giuseppe Lugli\n\nGiuseppe Lugli (born in Rome, Italy, in 1890; died in Rome, Italy, on December 5, 1967) was Professor of ancient Roman topography at the University of Rome from 1933 to 1961.\n\nLugli's academic career began with the completion of his undergraduate \"Laurea\" degree at Università di Roma La Sapienza in 1913, where he wrote a thesis on the villa of the emperor Domitian at Castel Gandolfo.\n\nLugli's career was prolific, although among his many significant contributions, several are paramount. He is credited with more than 230 scholarly publications. In his topographical career, Lugli compiled the landmark \"Fontes ad topographiam veteris urbis Romae pertinentes\" (8 vols. 1952-69). The aim of this corpus was to collect all of the textual mentions in the ancient sources that pertain to the topography and monuments of Rome. The work is organized according to the Augustan regions of the city.\n\nLugli was also a student of architecture, and in particular of building techniques. His study \"La tecnica edilizia romana: con particolare riguardo a Roma e Lazio, Roma\" (Bardi, 1957) remains a seminal study of the technology of construction in Italy during the 1st millennium B.C.\n\nLugli also founded the \"Forma Italiae\", a series of archaeological maps and concordance for Italy. This work continues today as a serial publication, and associated research project, directed by Prof. Paolo Sommella in the Department of Ancient History, Archaeology and Anthropology at the Università degli Studi di Roma \"La Sapienza\". The aim of \"Forma Italiae\" is to map the full archaeological landscape of Italy at a sufficient scale to facilitate a variety of research and teaching needs.\n\nLugli was a member of the Accademia dei Lincei from 1946 until his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10289321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10289321", "title": "Gudmund Schütte", "text": "Gudmund Schütte\n\nGudmund Schütte (January 17, 1872 – July 12, 1958) was a\nDanish philologist and historian specialized in\nthe Danish prehistory.\n\n"}
{"id": "2305629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2305629", "title": "Gustave Charles Fagniez", "text": "Gustave Charles Fagniez\n\nGustave Charles Fagniez (6 October 1842 – 18 June 1927), French historian and archivist, was born in Paris on 6 October 1842. Trained at the École des Chartes and the École pratique des hautes études, he made his first appearance in the world of scholarship as the author of an excellent book called \"Études sur l'industrie et la classe industrielle à Paris au XIII et au XIV siècle\" (1877). This work, composed almost entirely from documents, many unpublished, opened a new field for historical study.\n\nTwenty years later he supplemented this book by an interesting collection of \"Documents relatifs à l'histoire de l'industrie et du commerce en France\" (2 vols., 1898-1900), and in 1897 he published \"L'économie sociale de la France sous Henri IV\", a volume containing the results of very minute research. He did not, however, confine himself to economic history. His \"Le Père Joseph et Richelieu\" (1894), though somewhat frigid and severe, is based on a mass of unpublished information, and shows remarkable psychologic grasp. In 1878 his \"Journal parisien de Jean de Maupoint, prieur de Sainte-Catherine-de-la-Couture\" was published in vol. iv. of the \"Mémoires de la Société de l'Histoire de Paris et de l'Île de France\". He wrote numerous articles in the \"Revue historique\" (of which he was co-director with Gabriel Monod for some years) and in other learned reviews, such as the \"Revue des questions historiques\" and the \"Journal des savants\". In 1901 he was elected member of the Académie des Sciences Morales et Politiques.\n"}
{"id": "26926373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26926373", "title": "Hans Coppi Jr.", "text": "Hans Coppi Jr.\n\nHans Coppi Jr. (born November 27, 1942 in Berlin) is a German historian. His parents, Hilde and Hans Coppi, were active in the German Resistance and were both executed by the Nazis.\n\nCoppi was born at Barnimstraße Women's Prison in Berlin. His parents were arrested on September 12, 1942 in Schrimm (now Śrem, Poland). His paternal grandparents, maternal grandmother and one uncle were also arrested around this time. At the time of his parents' arrest, his mother was \"hochschwanger\", literally \"highly pregnant\". His father was convicted and executed shortly after his birth. Coppi's father was allowed to see him in his mother's arms one last time before being executed. His mother attempted to get clemency, but it was denied by Adolf Hitler in July 1943. She was allowed to nurse her son until shortly before her execution on August 5, 1943 at Plötzensee Prison, when Coppi was just eight months old. Coppi grew up with his grandparents.\n\nAfter studying economics in college, Coppi worked at an East German foreign trade company for machine tools as a party secretary of the ruling SED party. From 1984 to 1987, he was employed by the Berlin district leadership of the Socialist Unity Party (SED). After a year of study abroad in Moscow, he went to the Harnack/Schulze-Boysen Research Center at the Academy of Sciences in the German Democratic Republic (GDR). Writing his dissertation on Harro Schulze-Boysen, he got his doctorate at the Berlin Institute of Technology in 1992. He has spent considerable time devoted to the study of the Red Orchestra and the German Resistance.\n\nAlthough his parents are often identified as having been members of the Red Orchestra, Coppi himself says the term is a \"catch-all\" term the Nazis used to derogatorily refer to all \"Widerstand\" groups and it was used even after 1945 to defame them as Soviet spies.\n\nFrom 1990 to 1994, he was a researcher at the German Resistance Memorial Center in Berlin. From 1997 to 2002, he was the project director for the development of electronic archival resources at the Sachsenhausen Memorial. Coppi has been a freelance contributor at the German Resistance Memorial Center since 2003 and since 2004, the state chairman of the Union of Persecutees of the Nazi Regime in Berlin.\n\nCoppi was an honored guest at a Brussels program commemorating the 65th anniversary of the December 13, 1941, 2:30 a.m. arrests in Brussels of members of the Red Orchestra. At that event, Coppi said,\nAfter 1945, the members of the Abwehr, Gestapo and Reichskriegsgericht were never held accountable for their crimes against humanity. On the contrary, they were in demand as interlocutors for western intelligence agencies and made sure that those they had sentenced to death and killed in detention were once again defamed as spies and traitors. —Hans Coppi in Brussels, December 13, 2006\n\nCoppi is married to the gallery owner, Helle Coppi. He has three daughters and lives in Berlin.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11273010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11273010", "title": "Konrad Eubel", "text": "Konrad Eubel\n\nKonrad Eubel or Conradus Eubel (19 January 1842 – 5 February 1923) was a German Franciscan historian. He is known for his reference work, the \"Hierarchia Catholica Medii Aevi\", on medieval popes, cardinals and bishops. It appeared in three volumes, beginning in 1898. It covers the period 1198 to 1592, and is a more detailed version of the \"Series episcoporum Ecclesiae Catholicae\" by Pius Bonifacius Gams.\n\nUnder the title of the \"Hierarchia Catholica Medii et Recentioris Aevi\" the work has continued and now stands at nine volumes covering the period from 1198 to 1922.\n\nOther works include a Franciscan \"bullarium\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46834721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46834721", "title": "Lau'agae Ridge Quarry", "text": "Lau'agae Ridge Quarry\n\nThe Lau'agae Ridge Quarry is a prehistoric stone quarry on the eastern side of the island of Tutuila in the United States territory of American Samoa. It is located on a ridge above another archaeological site, the prehistoric village of Tulauta. The site includes a carpet of stone flakes, evidence of rough stonework (creating forms probably finished in Tulauta), signs of habitation, and two \"tia'ave\", oval stone platforms found in abundance on the island.\n\nThe quarry site was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "22626782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22626782", "title": "List of National Treasures of Japan (archaeological materials)", "text": "List of National Treasures of Japan (archaeological materials)\n\nThe term \"National Treasure\" has been used in Japan to denote cultural properties since 1897.\nThe definition and the criteria have changed since the introduction of the term. These archaeological materials adhere to the current definition, and have been designated national treasures since the Law for the Protection of Cultural Properties came into effect on June 9, 1951. The items are selected by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology based on their \"especially high historical or artistic value\". The list presents 47 materials or sets of materials from ancient to feudal Japan, spanning a period from about 4,500 BC to 1361 AD. The actual number of items is more than 47 because groups of related objects have been combined into single entries. Most of the items have been excavated from tombs, \"kofun\", sutra mounds or other archaeological sites. The materials are \nhoused in museums (29), temples (9), shrines (8) and a university (1) in 25 cities of Japan. The Tokyo National Museum houses the greatest number of archaeological national treasures, with 7 of the 47.\n\nThe Japanese Paleolithic marks the beginning of human habitation in Japan. It is generally accepted that human settlement did not occur before 38,000 BC, although some sources suggest the date to be as early as 50,000 BC. Archaeological artifacts from the paleolithic era consist of stone tools of various types, indicative of a hunter-gatherer society. From about 14,000 to 8,000 BC, the society gradually transformed to one characterized by the creation of pottery used for storage, cooking, bone burial and possibly ceremonial purposes. People continued to subsist on hunting, fishing and gathering, but evidence points to a gradual decrease in the nomadic lifestyle. Potsherds of unornamented pottery from the oldest archaeological sites constitute some of the world's oldest pottery. These are followed by linear-relief, punctated and nail-impressed pottery types. The first cord-marked pottery dates to 8,000 BC. Cord-marked pottery required a technique of pressing twisted cords into the clay, or by rolling cord-wrapped sticks across the clay. The Japanese definition for the period of prehistory characterized by the use of pottery is and refers to the entire period (c. 10,500 to 300 BC). Pottery techniques reached their apogee during the Middle Jōmon period with the emergence of fire-flame pottery created by sculpting and carving coils of clay applied to vessel rims, resulting in a rugged appearance. A set of 57 items of fire-flame pottery, dating to around 4,500 BC, has been designated as the oldest National Treasure. Archaeologists consider that such pottery may have had a symbolic meaning or was used ceremonially. \"Dogū\"—small clay figurines depicting humans and animals—can be dated to the earliest Jōmon period but their prevalence increased dramatically in the middle Jōmon. Many of these depict women with exaggerated breasts and enlarged buttocks, considered to be a fertility symbol. Five \"dogū\" from 3000 to 1000 BC have been designated as National Treasures.\n\nThe ensuing Yayoi period is characterized by great technological advances such as wet-rice agriculture or bronze and iron casting, which were introduced from the mainland. Iron knives and axes, followed by bronze swords, spears and mirrors, were brought to Japan from Korea and China. Later all of these were produced locally. The primary artistic artifacts, with the exception of Yayoi pottery, are bronze weapons, such as swords, halberds and dōtaku, ritual bells. The bells were often discovered in groups on a hillside buried with the weapons. They are tall and often decorated with geometric designs such as horizontal bands, flowing water patterns or spirals. A few bells feature the earliest Japanese depiction of people and animals. In addition ornamental jewels were found. The weapons that have been excavated are flat and thin, suggesting a symbolic use. Due to rusting, few iron objects have survived from this period. Burial mounds in square, and later round, enclosures were common in the Yayoi period. The starting date of the Kofun period (c. 250–300 AD) is defined by the appearance of large-scale keyhole-shaped \"kofun\" mound tombs, thought to mark imperial burials. Typical burial goods include mirrors, beads, Sue ware, weapons and later horse gear. One of the most well-known tombs, whose content of warrior-related items has been designated as National Treasure, is the late 6th century Fujinoki Tomb. Mirrors, swords and curved jewels, which constitute the Imperial Regalia of Japan, appear as early as the middle Yayoi period, and are abundant in Kofun period tombs. Characteristic of most \"kofun\" are \"haniwa\" clay terra cotta figures whose origin and purpose is unknown. A \"haniwa\" of an armoured man has been designated as National Treasure; and a 1st-century gold seal, designated a National Treasure, shows one of the earliest mentions of Japan or Wa.\nBuddhism arrived in Japan in the mid–6th century Asuka period, and was officially adopted in the wake of the Battle of Shigisan in 587, after which Buddhist temples began to be constructed. The new religion and customs fundamentally transformed Japanese society and the arts. Funerary traditions such as cremation and the practice of placing epitaphs in graves were imported from China and Korea. Following the treatment of Buddhist relics, the cremated remains in a glass container were wrapped in a cloth and placed in an outer container. Epitaphs, which recorded the lives of the deceased on silver or bronze rectangular strips, were particularly popular from the latter half of the 7th to the end of the 8th century (late Asuka and Nara period). Four epitaphs and a number of cinerary urns and reliquaries containing bones have been designated as National Treasures. Other archaeological National Treasures from the Buddhist era include ritual items buried in the temple foundations of the Golden Halls of Tōdai-ji and Kōfuku-ji in Nara. According to an ancient Buddhist prophecy, the world would enter a dark period in 1051; consequently in the late Heian period the belief in the saving powers of Maitreya or Miroku, the Buddha to be, became widespread. Believers buried scriptures and images to gain merit and to prepare for the coming Buddha. This practice, which continued into the Kamakura period, required the transcription of sutras according to strict ritual protocols, their placement in protective reliquary containers and burial in the earth of sacred mountains, shrines or temples to await the future Buddha. The oldest known sutra mound is that of Fujiwara no Michinaga from 1007 on Mount Kinpu, who buried one lotus sutra and five other sutras that he had written in 998. Its sutra container has been designated as National Treasure.\n\nAll of the 47 National Treasures are presently located in Japan; two were discovered in China and three were found in Japan, but the exact locations of their excavation sites is unknown. The excavation sites of the remaining 42 treasures are contained in the following table.\n\nThe table's columns (except for \"Details\" and \"Image\") are sortable by pressing the arrow symbols. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "31326350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31326350", "title": "List of disasters by cost", "text": "List of disasters by cost\n\nDisasters can be particularly notable for the high costs associated with responding to and recovering from them. This page lists the estimated economic costs of relatively recent disasters.\n\nThe costs of disasters vary considerably depending on a range of factors, such as the geographical location where they occur. When a large disaster occurs in a wealthy country, the financial damage may be large, but when a comparable disaster occurs in a poorer country, the actual financial damage may appear to be relatively small. This is in part due to the difficulty of measuring the financial damage in areas that lack insurance. For example, the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami, with a death toll of over 230,000 people, cost a 'mere' $15 billion, whereas in the \"Deepwater Horizon\" oil spill, in which 11 people died, the damages were six-fold.\n\n\"Note: All damage figures are listed in billions of United States dollars.\"\n"}
{"id": "39226076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39226076", "title": "Madeleine Riffaud", "text": "Madeleine Riffaud\n\nMadeleine Riffaud (born 23 August 1924 in Arvillers, France), is a French poet, journalist, war correspondent and previously a member of the French Resistance.\n\nMadeleine grew up in the Somme region, surrounded by memories of the First World War. She was 15 years old when war with Germany was declared. In May 1940, the Luftwaffe strafed a column of refugees from the Somme in which she was fleeing for the unoccupied South-West. Following this, she decided to move to Paris and fight against the Nazis.\n\nShe began operating for the French Forces of the Interior at the age of 18 under the codename \"Rainer\", participating in several operations against occupying Nazi forces and contributing to the capture of 80 Wehrmacht soldiers from an armoured German supply train. On July 23, 1944, at age 20, she became infamous for the killing of a German officer, whom she shot dead in broad daylight on a bridge overlooking the river Seine.\n\nShortly afterwards, she was captured by the Gestapo and taken to their HQ at Rue des Saussaies before being transferred to Fresnes Prison. Following her torture and a date being set for her execution, she was finally released in a prisoner exchange. She immediately returned to fight in the Resistance with the aim of freeing Paris from Nazi occupation. After the liberation of Paris, she and her comrades continued the fight against the Nazis until the end of the War.\n\nAfter the war ended in 1945, she became a journalist for , a French newspaper run by Louis Aragon, and then reported on the Algerian War for the French newspaper L'Humanité. In 1946, she met with Ho Chi Minh in Paris and vowed to devote her life to Vietnam. She moved to South Vietnam, and lived with the Viet Cong resistance for 7 years, covering their fight during the Vietnam War. There, she published \"Au Nord Vietnam, écrit Sous Les Bombes\" and made a documentary film entitled \"Dans Le Maquis du Sud-Vietnam\", documenting their methods of guerrilla warfare.\n\nUpon her return to France, she worked as a nursing assistant in a Paris hospital, where she wrote the best-seller \"Les Linges De La Nuit\", and published an anthology of poetry, \"Cheval Rouge : Anthologie Poétique, 1939-1972\".\n\nMadeleine Riffaud was awarded the National Order of Merit (France) in Paris on February 26, 2013 for her contributions to France and the world. She received the Friendship Medal from Vietnam in August 2005.\n\nRiffaud wrote poetry throughout the war and during her career as a journalist. Pablo Picasso drew her portrait for the frontispiece of \"Le Poing Fermé\" (The Closed Fist), her collection of poems published in 1945.\n\nHer autobiographical account of her time in the Resistance was published in 1994 entitled \"On L'appelait Rainer\", referencing the nom de guerre that she adopted during that time. She has also starred in a number of documentaries about her life.\n\n"}
{"id": "11766751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11766751", "title": "Masud ibn Namdar", "text": "Masud ibn Namdar\n\nMasud ibn Namdar was a Kurdish collector of local documents who wrote some forty years after the fall of Shaddadids of Ganja. He was the author of collection of documents relating to the area of Arran. His records, compiled about 1111, discuss the revolt of Askuya against his father Fadl as well as other current events. Also from the correspondence collected by him, it seems that Ganja was temporarily occupied by the Shirvanshah Fariburz. Overall, his records provide important information on the history of the Caucasus and are used by historians to sketch the events of his time.\n\n"}
{"id": "47257736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47257736", "title": "Michael Kidson", "text": "Michael Kidson\n\nMichael George MacDonald Kidson (24 August 1929 – 20 June 2015) was a British schoolmaster who taught history at Eton College. Among Kidson's pupils was former Prime Minister David Cameron. His life is portrayed in the bestselling book \"The Enigma of Kidson\", by Jamie Blackett published by Quiller, .\n\nKidson was born in Belgravia, London. His parents separated when he was an infant and his father died a few years later. He was brought up in Shropshire by his grandfather until the age of seven. Following his grandfather's death he was placed into the care of the Royal Wolverhampton School, which at that time was a charitable institution for children who had lost one or both parents.\nKidson served in the King's Shropshire Light Infantry as a national service officer, then went up to Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge, where he read economics and history. In 1956 he joined Shell as a graduate trainee but soon moved into teaching, initially at Papplewick, a private school, and then at Eton. He retired in 1994. He was notable for his competence and for his exceptional ability to engage the minds of his students.\n\nCommenting on Kidson, David Cameron said: \"If he caught you napping, he’d throw this block of wood at your head ... Health and safety means you can’t do this anymore.\"\n"}
{"id": "3357460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3357460", "title": "Milan Rešetar", "text": "Milan Rešetar\n\nMilan Rešetar (; February 1, 1860 – January 14, 1942) was a Serbian (a self-identified Serb Catholic from Dalmatia, today by some Croat researchers considered Croatian), linguist, historian and literary critic.\n\nRešetar was born in Dubrovnik. After the gymnasium in Dubrovnik, he studied classical philology and Slavic languages in Vienna and Graz. He worked as a high-school professor in Koper, Zadar and Split, and later a professor of Slavic studies on the universities of Vienna and Zagreb). He also edited the Croatian edition of \"\"List drevnih zakona\" magazine. Rešetar was a student of Vatroslav Jagić. He was a notable member of the Serb Catholic movement in Dubrovnik. After retirement, he moved to Florence where he died 1942.\n\nThe main areas of his works included dialectology and accentology of South Slavic languages, as well as philologically impeccable editions of 15th to 18th century writers for the Yugoslav Academy of Sciences and Arts edition \"Stari pisci hrvatski\"/Old Croatian Writers\".\n\nHe was one of founders of South Slavic dialectology, investigating features of Štokavian dialects (\"Der Štokawische Dialect\", Vienna, 1907) and Čakavian dialects, and also wrote a monography about Molise Croatian dialect. Milan Rešetar was the most conscientious and diligent commentator on The Mountain Wreath. He was also engaged in the field of numismatics (\"Dubrovačka numizmatika\", 1924-1925), inheriting the interest and coin collection from his father Pavle, the last commander in Kotor during Petar II Petrović-Njegoš's lifetime. The collection is kept at The National Museum in Prague.\n\nHe wrote in Serbian, Croatian, German, and Italian.\n\nHis most important works in Serbian include:\n\nHis works in this area are, with a few exceptions, superseded by later areal linguistics and historical dialectology research. On the other hand, Rešetar's editions of the Renaissance and Baroque poets and playwrights are still the standard printed issues; only modern computerized textology analyses, done in the Institute for Croatian language and linguistics, have begun to question some aspects of his transliteration choices on the graphemics level. The big part of his work in this area remains highly regarded and confirmed by contemporary textology.\n\nHis scientific attitudes towards the Ijekavian Štokavian dialect of Dubrovnik were driven by his own ethnic affiliation—like many other prominent members of the intelligentsia in Dubrovnik of his time, Rešetar identified himself as a \"Serb Catholic\".\n\nConvinced that the Croats and the Serbs are one nation in two names, Rešetar held that Croatian and Serbian are one and the same language, and in that conviction he published two versions of its grammar - one with examples in Latin script and examples in Cyrillic script: \"Elementar-Grammatik der kroatischen (serbischen) Sprache\" and \"Elementar-Grammatik der serbischen (kroatischen) Sprache\" (1916).\n\nHe also wrote in German a lengthy book entitled \"Die serbokroatischen Kolonien süditaliens\" which was published in Vienna in 1911. \n\n"}
{"id": "2417061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2417061", "title": "Nicholas Trivet", "text": "Nicholas Trivet\n\nNicholas Trivet (or Trevet, as he himself wrote) (c. 1258 – c. 1328) was an English Anglo-Norman chronicler.\n\nTrivet was born in Somerset and was the son of Sir Thomas Trevet (died 1283), a judge who came of a Norfolk or Somerset family. Nicholas became a Dominican friar in London, and studied first at Oxford and later in Paris, where he first took an interest in English and French chronicles.\n\nLittle is known of the greater part of his life except that at one time he was prior of his order in London, and at another he was teaching at Oxford, also that he was at Santa Maria Novella in Florence.\n\nTrivet was the author of a large number of theological and historical works and commentaries on the classics, more especially the works of Seneca. A large number of these exist in MS. in various libraries, but only two appear to have been printed, one being the work by which he is chiefly remembered, the chronicle of the Angevin kings of England; the other was the last twelve books of his commentary on St. Augustine's treatise \"De civitate dei\". The full title of the former work is \"Annales sex regum Angliae qui a comitibus Andegavensibus originem traxerunt\", an important historical source for the period between 1135 and 1307, containing a specially valuable account of the reign of Edward I, who was his contemporary. Trivet also wrote a chronicle in French, parts of which were printed by Henry Spelman. This contains the tale of Constance, from which the popular tale-type derived its name, and from which Chaucer is believed to have obtained his Man of Law's Tale.\n\nThe \"Annales\" were published in Paris in 1668, in Oxford in 1719, and were edited by Thomas Hogg for the English Historical Society in 1845. Manuscripts are at Oxford and in the British Museum. Trevet's other historical works are \"Catalogus regum anglo-saxonum durante heptarchia\", and \"Les Cronicles qe frere N. Trevet escript a dame Marie\" (Marie was Edward I's daughter Mary of Woodstock). Trivet also wrote a number of works of a theological and philological character.\n\nTrivet also wrote many biblical commentaries, treatises and translations. While over a hundred manuscripts exist, in Latin, French and Italian, of his commentary on Boethius, which in turn influenced Jean de Meun and Chaucer.\n\nA member of Nicholas' family was Sir Thomas Trivit (died October 1383), a soldier of repute, who saw a good deal of service in France.\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "43371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43371", "title": "Nikephoros I of Constantinople", "text": "Nikephoros I of Constantinople\n\nSt. Nikephoros I or Nicephorus I (Greek: Νικηφόρος Α΄, \"Nikēphoros I\") (c. 758 – April 5, 828) was a Christian Byzantine writer and Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople from April 12, 806, to March 13, 815.\nHe was born in Constantinople as the son of Theodore and Eudokia, of a strictly orthodox family, which had suffered from the earlier Iconoclasm. His father Theodore, one of the secretaries of Emperor Constantine V, had been scourged and banished to Nicaea for his zealous support of Iconodules, and the son inherited the religious convictions of the father. Nevertheless, he entered the service of the Empire, became cabinet secretary (\"asekretis\"), and under Irene took part in the synod of 787 as imperial commissioner. He then withdrew to one of the cloisters that he had founded on the eastern shore of the Bosporus, until he was appointed director of the largest home for the destitute in Constantinople c. 802.\n\nAfter the death of the Patriarch Tarasios of Constantinople, although still a layman, he was chosen patriarch by the wish of the emperor (Easter, April 12, 806). The uncanonical choice met with opposition from the strictly clerical party of the Stoudites, and this opposition intensified into an open break when Nikephoros, in other respects a very rigid moralist, showed himself compliant to the will of the emperor by reinstating the excommunicated priest Joseph.\n\nAfter vain theological disputes, in December 814, there followed personal insults. Nikephoros at first replied to his removal from his office by excommunication, but was at last obliged to yield to force, and was taken to one of the cloisters he had founded, \"Tou Agathou\", and later to that called \"Tou Hagiou Theodorou\". From there he carried on a literary polemic for the cause of the iconodules against the synod of 815. On the occasion of the change of emperors, in 820, he was put forward as a candidate for the patriarchate and at least obtained the promise of toleration.\n\nHe died at the monastery of Saint Theodore (\"Hagiou Theodorou\"), revered as a confessor. His remains were solemnly brought back to Constantinople by Methodios I of Constantinople on March 13, 847, and interred in the Church of the Holy Apostles, where they were annually the object of imperial devotion. His feast is celebrated on this day both in the Greek and Roman Churches; the Greeks also observe 2 June as the day of his death.\n\nCompared with Theodore of Stoudios, Nikephoros appears as a friend of conciliation, learned in patristics, more inclined to take the defensive than the offensive, and possessed of a comparatively chaste, simple style. He was mild in his ecclesiastical and monastical rules and non-partisan in his historical treatment of the period from 602 to 769 (\"Historia syntomos, breviarium\"). He used the chronicle of Trajan the Patrician.\n\nHis tables of universal history (\"Chronographikon syntomon\"), in passages extended and continued, were in great favor with the Byzantines, and were also circulated outside the Empire in the Latin version of Anastasius Bibliothecarius, and also in Slavonic translation. The \"Chronography\" offered a universal history from the time of Adam and Eve to his own time. To it he appended a canon catalog (which does not include the \"Revelation\" of John). The catalog of the accepted books of the Old and New Testaments is followed by the \"antilegomena\" (including \"Revelation\") and the apocrypha. Next to each book is the count of its lines, his stichometry, to which we can compare our accepted texts and judge how much has been added or omitted. This is especially useful for apocrypha for which only fragmentary texts have survived.\n\nThe principal works of Nikephorus are three writings referring to iconoclasm:\n\n\nNikephoros follows in the path of John of Damascus. His merit is the thoroughness with which he traced the literary and traditional proofs, and his detailed refutations are serviceable for the knowledge they afford of important texts adduced by his opponents and in part drawn from the older church literature.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "10935714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10935714", "title": "Overstrike (numismatics)", "text": "Overstrike (numismatics)\n\nIn Numismatics overstrike refers to the image on a coin which has been coined more than once. Overstriking is done deliberately when the first strike is unsatisfactory, or accidentally if the blank slips out of place or if the dies judder, resulting in a slight doubling of the design. \n\nSometimes old and worn coins were overstruck with new designs by later rulers. This occurred in the Roman Empire, see sestertius, and also in more modern times. Due to a shortage of silver the mint of George III of Great Britain used Spanish silver dollars in the early 19th century, and overstruck the king's image and legends on them.\n\nIn the ancient world, use of overstrikes was not uncommon, since the manufacture of flans was resource consumptive; thus a foreign or outdated coin could be overstruck with less investment than new mintage. Evidence of overstriking appears as early as about 500 BC when coins of Aegina were overstruck by the ancient city of Kydonia on Crete. In this case and many others, the overstrike can be a valuable aid to dating an ancient coin, an era when dates were not commonly affixed to the design.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "378285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=378285", "title": "Pecos Classification", "text": "Pecos Classification\n\nThe Pecos Classification is a chronological division of all known Ancestral Puebloans into periods based on changes in architecture, art, pottery, and cultural remains. The original classification dates back to consensus reached at a 1927 archæological conference held in Pecos, New Mexico, which was organized by the United States archaeologist Alfred V. Kidder.\n\nThe original Pecos Classification contained eight stages of Southwestern prehistory, but it did not specify dates.\n\n\nAlthough the original classification has been significantly debated and sometimes modified over the years, the split into Basketmaker and Pueblo period still serves as a basis for discussing the culture of the Ancient Puebloans of the Four Corners area. The following classification in based in part of the Revised Pecos Classification for the Mesa Verde Region.\n\nThe pre-Anasazi culture that moved into the modern-day Southwestern United States after the big game hunters departed are called \"Archaic\". Little evidence for extensive habitation before 8000 BC exists. From evidence near Navajo Mountain, they were nomadic people, hunter-gatherers traveling in small bands. They gathered wild foods when in season, and hunted with stone-tipped spears, \"atlatls\", and darts. Game included rabbits, deer, antelope, and bighorn sheep.\n\nThe original classification postulated a Basketmaker I Period which was subsequently discredited due to lack of physical evidence. It was combined with the Archaic Period.\n\nThis period was called Oshara Tradition. There was a trend toward a sedentary lifestyle, with small-scale cultivation of plants beginning 1000 BC.\n\nThe early Anasazi camped in the open or lived in caves seasonally. During this period, they began to cultivate gardens of maize (flint corn in particular) and squash, but no beans. They used \"manos\" and \"metates\" to grind corn, and the women made baskets for numerous uses. They had no pottery.\n\nThe people constructed primitive storage bins, cists, and shallow pit-houses. At this stage, evidence suggests that the beginning of a religious and decision-making structure had already developed. Shamanistic cults existed, and petroglyphs and other rock art indicate a ceremonial structure as well. Groups appear to be increasingly linked into larger-scale decision-making bodies.\n\nDeep pithouses were developed, along with some above-ground rooms. The bow and arrow replace the atlatl and spear. Plain bisque and some painted black-on-white pottery is made. Cultivation begins of beans, available due to trade from Central America, and edible due to slow cooking in pottery vessels. Wild amaranth and pinyon pine were also staples. People of this period may have domesticated turkeys.\n\nThe prototype \"kivas\" were large, round, and subterranean.\n\nThe Pueblo I Period saw increasing populations, growing village size, social integration, and more complicated and complex agricultural systems typified this Period. The construction and year-round occupation of pueblos begins; the people constructed reservoirs and canals to deal with scarce and irregular water resources. Large villages and great kivas appear, though pithouses still remain in use. Above-ground construction is of jacal or crude masonry. Plain gray bisque predominates in pottery, though some red bisque and pottery decorated in black and white appears.\n\nBy AD 1050, Chaco Canyon (in present-day New Mexico) was a major regional center, with a population of 1,500–5,000 people. It is surrounded by standardized planned towns, or \"great houses\", built from the wood of more than 200,000 trees. Thirty-foot-wide () roads, flanked by berms, radiate from Chaco in various directions. Small blocks of above-ground masonry rooms and a kiva make up a typical pueblo. Great kivas were up to in diameter. Pottery consists of corrugated gray bisque and decorated black-on-white in addition to some decorated red and orange vessels. The people imported shells and turquoise from other cultures through trading.\n\nDuring the 12th century, populations began to grow after a decline at the end of the Pueblo II Period. More intense agriculture was characteristic, with terracing and irrigation common.\n\nSettlements consist of large pueblos, cliff dwellings, towers and turkey pens. Most villages in the Four Corners area are abandoned by AD 1300. The distinction between the \"Hohokam\" and Ancient Pueblo people becomes blurred.\n\nTypically, large pueblos are centered around a plaza. Socially, this was a period of more conflict than cooperation, which is thought to have led to abandonment of settlements at Mesa Verde. The people began making kachinas for religious and ritual purposes. Plain pottery supplants corrugated. Red, orange and yellow pottery is on the rise as the black-on-white declines. Cotton is introduced and grown as a commodity.\n\nThe Puebloans are joined by other cultures. As early as the 15th century, the Navajo were in the process of migrating into the region from the north. In the next century, the Spanish colonists first came in the 1540s from the south.\n\nThe Spanish dominate and take over sites such as the Acoma Pueblo. Their arrival sends Pueblo subcultures underground.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14408768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14408768", "title": "Piloncitos", "text": "Piloncitos\n\nPiloncitos (also known as Bulawan) are tiny engraved gold coins found in the Philippines from the Archaic period (pre-Hispanic era).\n\nTrade among the early Filipinos and with traders from neighboring islands was conducted through Barter. The inconvenience of barter later led to the use of some objects as a medium of exchange. Gold, which was plentiful in many parts of the islands, invariably found its way into these objects that included the Piloncitos, small bead-like gold bits considered by the local numismatists as the earliest coin of ancient Filipinos, and gold barter rings.\n\nPiloncitos is presumably an offshoot of the silver and may have evolved into the bullet or pod-duang coinage of Sukhothai in Thailand.\n\nSince ancient times, gold has been one of the main products of the islands. Both ancient and modern goldsmiths exude exquisiteness in their craftsmanship for trade, personal vanity and prestige.\n\nPiloncitos are the earliest form of precious metal based currency of Tondo, Namayan and Rajahnate of Butuan in present-day Philippines. It is likely made of pure gold with a weight ranging between 0.5 grams to more or less than 3 grams. Piloncitos are tiny engraved bead-like gold bits unearthed in the Philippines. They are the first recognized coinage in the Philippines circulated between the 9th and 12th centuries. They emerged when increasing trade made barter inconvenient.\n\nPiloncitos are so small—some are of the size of a corn kernel—and weigh from 0.09 to 2.65 grams of fine gold. Large Piloncitos weighing 2.65 grams approximate the weight of one mass. Piloncitos have been excavated from Mandaluyong, Bataan, the banks of the Pasig River, Batangas, Marinduque, Samar, Leyte and some areas in Mindanao. They have been found in large numbers in Indonesian archeological sites leading to questions of origin. That gold was mined and worked in the Philippines is evidenced by many Spanish accounts, like one in 1586 that stated: \n\nThe early Filipinos traded Piloncitos also along with Gold rings, which is gold ring-like ingots. These barter rings are bigger than doughnuts in size and are made of nearly pure gold.\n\nThey are also very similar to the first coins invented in the Kingdom of Lydia in present-day Turkey. Barter rings were circulated in the Philippines up to the 16th century.\n\nPiloncitos is not exclusively found in the Philippines as most collectors and local historians state. Similar type of gold can be found in some regions of Indonesia which they call \"massa\".\n\nIn an era before coined money was widely used, Indo-Pacific beads were made first at a site called Arikamedu in South India ca. 200 BC. The manufacture then moved in sequence to Ceylon, South Thailand, Java and finally Malaya. By about 1200–1300 AD the larger Majapahit beads, excavated today in the interior of Java, had supplanted it. Since these factory sites have been dated, archaeologists now use the beads to date sites, though whether beads rose to the level of metals, salt, cloth, and cowries as \"standard\" trade goods is uncertain.\n\nThe first indigenous metallic coinage in the region, ca. 750–850 AD, comes from the Javanese kingdom of Sailendra (Chinese: \"Ho-ling\"). These roughly dome-shaped silver of irregular weight bore stamps of a flowing vase, and the sandalwood flower (quatefoil). By 850 AD weights had been standardized at 20 rattis to a Massa of about 2.4 grams. Silver and gold coins of Massa and fractional denominations were issued until about 1300 AD, with changes in shape and quality of inscription marking periods of issue. The gold Piloncitos of the Philippines are a late offshoot of the gold coinage, while the bean-like silver \"namo\" series, of the Malay isthmus was presumably an offshoot of the silver and may have evolved into the bullet (Pod-Duang) coinage of Sukhothai in Thailand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21366214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21366214", "title": "Postchristianity", "text": "Postchristianity\n\nPostchristianity is the loss of the primacy of the Christian worldview in political affairs, especially in the Western world where Christianity had previously flourished, in favor of alternative worldviews such as secularism or nationalism. It includes personal world views, ideologies, religious movements or societies that are no longer rooted in the language and assumptions of Christianity, at least explicitly, although they had previously been in an environment of ubiquitous Christianity (i.e. Christendom).\n\nSome scholars have disputed the global decline of Christianity, and instead hypothesized of an evolution of Christianity which allows it to not only survive, but actively expand its influence in contemporary societies.\n\nHistorically, the majority of Christians have lived in Western, White nations, often conceptualized as \"European Christian\" civilization.\n\nA postchristian world is one in which Christianity is no longer the dominant civil religion but has gradually assumed values, culture, and worldviews that are not necessarily Christian (and also may not necessarily reflect any world religion's standpoint or may represent a combination of either several religions or none). Post-Christian tends to refer to the loss of Christianity's monopoly, if not its followers, in historically Christian societies. Postchristian societies can be found across the Global North - for example, though the 2005 Eurobarometer survey indicated that the majority of Europeans hold some form of belief in a higher power, fewer point explicitly to the Christian God. \n\nDespite the declining, Christianity remains the dominant religion in Europe, according to a 2010 study by the Pew Research Center, 76.2% of the European population identified themselves as Christians, and according to a 2012 Eurobarometer survey, Christianity was the largest religion in the European Union (account 72% of EU population). According to a 2010 study by the Pew Research Center, about 70.6% of the Americas population identified themselves as Christians, (90% in Latin America and 77% in North America).\n\nIn his 1961 \"The Death of God\", the French theologian Gabriel Vahanian argued that modern secular culture in most of Western civilization had lost all sense of the sacred, lacked any sacramental meaning, and disdained any transcendental purpose or sense of providence, bringing him to the conclusion that for the modern mind, \"God is dead\". Thomas J. J. Altizer and William Hamilton of Emory University drew upon a variety of sources, including the aphorisms of Dietrich Bonhoeffer's \"Letters and Papers from Prison\", and brought this line of thought to public attention in a short-lived intellectual movement of the mid-to-late-1960s among Protestant theologians and ministerial students. Conservative reaction on the right and social-advocacy efforts on the left blunted its impact, however, and it was quickly overlooked in favor of more ethically-oriented movements such as the Social Gospel and feminist theologies, within mainline Protestantism.\n\nOther scholars have disputed the global decline of Christianity, and instead hypothesized of an evolution of Christianity which allows it to not only survive, but actively expand its influence in contemporary societies.\n\nPhilip Jenkins hypothesized a \"Christian Revolution\" in the Southern nations, such as Africa, Asia and Latin America, where instead of facing decline, Christianity is actively expanding. The relevance of Christian teachings in the global South will allow the Christian population in these areas to continually increase, and together with the shrinking of the Western Christian population, will form a \"new Christendom\" in which the majority of the world's Christian population can be found in the South.\n\nCharles Taylor, meanwhile, disputes the \"God is Dead\" thesis by arguing that the practices and understandings of faith changed long before the late 20th century, along with secularism itself. In \"A Secular Age\" Taylor argues that being \"free from Christendom\" has allowed Christianity to endure and express itself in various ways, particularly in Western society; he notes that otherwise secular ideas were, and continue to be, formed in light of some manner of faith. He stresses that \"loss of faith\" reflects simplistic notions on the nature of secularization, namely the idea of \"subtraction.\" Thus \"post-Christian\" is, after a fashion, a product of Christianity itself.\n\nSome American Christians (primarily Protestants) also use this term in reference to the evangelism of unchurched individuals who may have grown up in a non-Christian culture where traditional Biblical references may be unfamiliar concepts. This perspective argues that, among previous generations in the United States, such concepts and other artifacts of Christianese would have been common cultural knowledge and that it would not have been necessary to teach this language to adult converts to Christianity. In this sense, post-Christian is not used pejoratively, but is intended to describe the special remediative care that would be needed to introduce new Christians to the nuances of Christian life and practice.\n\nSome groups use the term \"post-Christian\" as a self-description. Dana McLean Greeley, the first president of the Unitarian Universalist Association, described Unitarian Universalism as postchristian, insofar as Christians no longer considered it Christian, while persons of other religions would likely describe it as Christian, at least historically.\n\n"}
{"id": "11450748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11450748", "title": "Richard D. Hansen", "text": "Richard D. Hansen\n\nRichard D. Hansen is a distinguished American archaeologist and currently Adjunct Professor of Anthropology at the University of Utah in Salt Lake City. He previously has been an Affiliate Research Professor and Senior Scientist at the Institute for Mesoamerican Research in the Department of Anthropology at Idaho State University and an Associate Scientist (Level IV) at the Institute of Geophysics and Planetary Physics at UCLA. Hansen is a specialist on the ancient Maya civilization and also a director of the Mirador Basin Project, which investigates the mainly unexplored territory in the northern Peten, Guatemala.\n\nHe has worked in the Mesoamerican region and early Maya civilization. In 1989, discoveries by Hansen and his colleagues established the idea that ancient Maya societies had centralized governments far earlier than once supposed, building several massive centers as early as 1000-600 B.C. Hansen also identified data for an extensive collapse of the Preclassic Maya about 150 A.D. The Classic Maya cultural history lasted for another 600 years, ending around 850 A.D., with the collapse of the use of ceremonial centers in what are now parts of Guatemala, Honduras and Mexico. In March 2017, Hansen received the prestigious Order of the Quetzal<Prensa Libre, 10 Marzo 2017, p. 12,35> from Guatemalan President Jimmy Morales and Minister of Culture Jose Luis Chea in a national ceremony in the National Palace of Guatemala. He had previously received (2005) the National Order of Cultural Heritage from Guatemalan President Oscar Berger at the National Palace. He has received numerous additional national and international awards for his work in northern Guatemala \n\n"}
{"id": "20452014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20452014", "title": "Richard Milazzo", "text": "Richard Milazzo\n\nRichard Milazzo is a critic, curator, publisher, independent scholar and poet. In the 1970s, he was the editor and co-publisher of Out of London Press. He is the co-founding publisher and editor of Edgewise Press. In the 1980s, under the rubric of Collins & Milazzo, he co-curated art exhibitions and co-wrote works on art and art theory.\n\nSince 1982, he has worked internationally as a critic and curator in the art world. In the early 1980s, he co-published and co-edited in the East Village, and from 1986 to 1988 he was the American co-editor of \"Kunstforum\" (Cologne). Among the many publications of those years were \"Radical Consumption and the New Poverty\" (New York: New Observations, 1987); \"Art at the End of the Social\" (Malmö, Sweden: The Rooseum, 1988); and \"Hyperframes: A Post-Appropriation Discourse in Art\", the lectures they delivered as Senior Critics at Yale University in 1988 and 1989. They were recently reissued in an Italian edition by Campanotto Editore in Udine, in 2005.\n\nCollins & Milazzo brought to prominence a new generation of artists in the 1980s. It was their exhibitions and writings that originally fashioned the theoretical context for a new kind of Post-conceptual art that argued simultaneously against Neo-Expressionism and Picture-Theory Art. It was through this context that the work of many of the artists associated with Neo-Conceptualism (or what the critics reductively called \"Simulationism\" and \"Neo Geo\") was first brought together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37967128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37967128", "title": "Rodolfo Casamiquela", "text": "Rodolfo Casamiquela\n\nRodolfo Magín Casamiquela (Ingeniero Jacobacci, Río Negro Province, December 11, 1932 – Cipolletti, Río Negro, December 5, 2008) was an Argentinian paleontologist, archeologist, historian, writer, and teacher, best known for his discovering of the dinosaur \"Pisanosaurus mertii\" in 1967.\n\n\nCasamiquela is commemorated in the scientific name of a species of lizard, \"Liolaemus casamiquelai\".\n\nCasamiquela published over 20 books and various reports. This list contains some of them (all in Spanish): \n\n"}
{"id": "1495099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1495099", "title": "Royal Road", "text": "Royal Road\n\nThe Royal Road was an ancient highway reorganized and rebuilt by the Persian king Darius the Great (Darius I) of the first (Achaemenid) Persian Empire in the 5th century BCE. Darius built the road to facilitate rapid communication throughout his very large empire from Susa to Sardis. Mounted couriers of the Angarium were supposed to travel 1677 miles (2699 km) from Susa to Sardis in nine days; the journey took ninety days on foot. The Greek historian Herodotus wrote, \"There is nothing in the world that travels faster than these Persian couriers.\" Herodotus's praise for these messengers—\"Neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom of night stays these couriers from the swift completion of their appointed rounds\"— was inscribed on the James Farley Post Office in New York and is sometimes thought of as the United States Postal Service creed.\n\nThe course of the road has been reconstructed from the writings of Herodotus, archeological research, and other historical records. It began in Asia Minor (on the Aegean coast of Lydia, about 60 miles east of İzmir in present-day Turkey), traveled east through what is now the middle northern section of Turkey (crossing the Halys according to Herodotus), and passed through the Cilician Gates to the old Assyrian capital Nineveh (present-day Mosul, Iraq), then turned south to Babylon (near present-day Baghdad, Iraq). From near Babylon, it is believed to have split into two routes, one traveling northeast then east through Ecbatana (in present-day Iran) and on along the Silk Road, the other continuing east through the future Persian capital Susa (in present-day Iran) and then southeast to Persepolis. Of course, such long routes for travellers and tradesmen would often take months on end, and during the reign of Darius the Great numerous royal outposts (Caravanserai) were built.\n\nBecause the road did not follow the shortest nor the easiest route between the important cities of the Persian Empire, archeologists believe the westernmost sections of the road may have originally been built by the Assyrian kings, as the road plunges through the heart of their old empire. More eastern segments of the road, identifiable in present-day northern Iran, were not noted by Herodotus, whose view of Persia was that of an Ionian Greek in the West; stretches of the Royal Road across the central plateau of Iran are coincident with the major trade route known as the Silk Road. This route was used by couriers to deliver messages to the Persian capital.\n\nHowever, Darius I improved the existing road network into the Royal Road as it is recognized today. A later improvement by the Romans of a road bed with a hard-packed gravelled surface of 6.25 m width held within a stone curbing was found in a stretch near Gordium and connecting the parts together in a unified whole stretching some 1677 miles, primarily as a post road, with a hundred and eleven posting stations maintained with a supply of fresh horses, a quick mode of communication using relays of swift mounted messengers, the kingdom's \"pirradazis\".\n\nThe construction of the road as improved by Darius was of such quality that the road continued to be used until Roman times. A bridge at Diyarbakır, Turkey, still stands from this period of the road's use. The road also helped Persia increase long-distance trade, which reached its peak during the time of Alexander the Great (Alexander III of Macedon).\n\nIn 1961, under a grant from the American Philosophical Society, S. F. Starr traced the stretch of road from Gordium to Sardis, identifying river crossings by ancient bridge abutments.\nIt was maintained by personal guards. The road also was made secure by the Persians. Guard posts were stationed along the road, patrols were also made to secure the route. The Royal Road would be a monument of the Persian Empire.\n\nEuclid is said to have replied to King Ptolemy's request for an easier way of learning mathematics that \"there is no Royal Road to geometry\", according to Proclus.\n\nCharles Sanders Peirce, in his \"\" (1878), says, \"There is no royal road to logic, and really valuable ideas can only be had at the price of close attention.\" This essay was claimed by William James as instrumental in the foundation of the philosophical school of pragmatism.\n\nSigmund Freud famously described dreams as the \"royal road to the unconscious (not conscious)\" (\"Via regia zur Kenntnis des Unbewußten\").\n\nKarl Marx wrote in the 1872 Preface to the French Edition of Das Kapital (Volume 1), \"There is no royal road to science, and only those who do not dread the fatiguing climb of its steep paths have a chance of gaining its luminous summits.\"\n\n\"The Royal Road to Romance\" (1925) is the first book by Richard Halliburton, covering his world travels as a young man from Andorra to Angkor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "578059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=578059", "title": "Russian postmodernism", "text": "Russian postmodernism\n\nRussian postmodernism refers to the cultural, artistic, and philosophical condition in Russia since the downfall of the Soviet Union and dialectical materialism. With respect to statements about post-Soviet philosophy or sociology, the term is primarily used by non-Russians to describe the state of economic and political uncertainty they observe since the fall of communism and the way this uncertainty affects Russian identity. 'Postmodernism' is, however, a term often used by Russian critics to describe contemporary Russian art and literature.\n\nIn art, postmodernism entered the Soviet Union in the 1960s after the end of the Stalinist move toward liberalization with the advent of the Russian conceptualist movement. Beginning as an underground political-artistic move against the use of Socialist realism as a method of social control and becoming a full-fledged movement with the Moscow Conceptualists, Russian conceptualism used the symbolism of Socialist realism against the Soviet government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22035328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22035328", "title": "Sabatino Moscati", "text": "Sabatino Moscati\n\nSabatino Moscati (November 24 1922 – September 8 1997) was an Italian archaeologist and linguist known for his work on Phoenician and Punic civilizations. In 1954 he became Professor of Semitic Philology at the University of Rome where he established the Institute of Studies of the Near East.\n\nSabatino directed a number of excavations, in the process of which he established himself internationally, winning the Lamarmora Prize for his studies of Sardinia, the Selinon Prize for Sicily, the Sybaris Magna Grecia Prize for his research in ancient Italy and the I cavalli d'oro di San Marco for his oriental work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2720197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2720197", "title": "Samuel Johnson (Nigerian historian)", "text": "Samuel Johnson (Nigerian historian)\n\nThe Rev. Samuel Johnson (24 June 1846 – 29 April 1901) was an Anglican priest and historian of the Yoruba.\n\nBorn a recaptive 'Creole' in Freetown, Sierra Leone, Johnson was an Omoba of the Oyo clan as a descendant of the Alaafin Abiodun of Oyo. He completed his education at the Church Missionary Society (CMS) Training Institute and subsequently taught during what became known as the Yoruba civil war.\n\nJohnson and Charles Phillips, also of the CMS, arranged a ceasefire in 1886 and then a treaty that guaranteed the independence of the Ekiti towns. Ilorin refused to cease fighting however, and the war dragged on. \nIn 1880, he became a deacon and in 1888 a priest. He was based in Oyo from 1881 onward and completed a work on Yoruba history in 1897. This event is said to have been caused by him fearing that his people were losing their history, and that they were beginning to know European history better. Ironically, this work was \"misplaced\" by his British publishers.\n\nAfter his death, his brother Dr. Obadiah Johnson re-compiled and rewrote the book, using the reverend's copious notes as a guide. In 1921, he released it as \"A History of the Yorubas from the Earliest Times to the Beginning of the British Protectorate\". The book has since been likened to \"The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\" by Edward Gibbon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9765510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9765510", "title": "Shakushain's revolt", "text": "Shakushain's revolt\n\nThe war began as a fight for resources between Shakushain's people and a rival Ainu clan in the Shibuchari River (Shizunai River) basin of what is now Shinhidaka, Hokkaidō. The war developed into a last try by the Ainu to keep their political independence and regain control over the terms of their trade relations with the Yamato people.\n\nAccording to scholar Brett Walker:\n\nShakushain's War stands out as a watershed event in the history of the conquest of Ezo. Shakushain exploded onto the scene as a charismatic leader who proved able to bridge regional differences among Ainu communities, threatening to unite them against the Japanese intrusion from the south. The Tokugawa shogunate reacted by solidifying its own united front of military allies in the northeast, replacing local Matsumae generals with men of its own choosing, thus illustrating its self-appointed role as defender of the realm.\nAt the end of 1669, Shakushain's forces surrendered to the Matsumae. The two sides exchanged gifts and negotiated a peace settlement; however, while Ainu generals celebrated with \"liberal helpings of saké\", they were assassinated by Matsumae warriors. Shakushain was among those killed that day.\n\nThe only other comparable large-scale revolt by Ainu against Japanese rule was the Menashi-Kunashir Battle of 1789. An earlier rebellion along the same lines was Koshamain's Revolt in 1456.\n\n"}
{"id": "48323509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48323509", "title": "Terribilità", "text": "Terribilità\n\nTerribilità, the spelling in modern Italian, or terribiltà, as Michelangelo's 16th century contemporaries tended to spell it, is a quality of provoking terror (the literal meaning), awe, or a sense of the sublime, in the viewer, that is ascribed to his art. It is perhaps especially applied to his sculptures, such as his figures of \"David\" or in \"Moses\".\n\nPope Julius II was apparently the first to describe Michelangelo as a \"uomo terribile\" (\"terror-inducing man\"), apparently describing his difficult character as much as his art. This \"terribilità\", also references the neoplatonics of humanists such as Marsilio Ficino, who had known Michelangelo in his youth.\n\nMichelangelo's friend and collaborator Sebastiano del Piombo reported in a letter to him of 15 October 1520 on a private audience with Pope Leo X. After praising Michelangelo's work, the pope continued \"But he is \"terribile\", as you see; one cannot deal with him\". Sebastiano responded \"that your \"terribile\" character did not harm anyone, and that you appear \"terribile\" for love of the great works you carry out.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "842315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=842315", "title": "Thynia", "text": "Thynia\n\nIn the ancient world, Thynia (, ) was a region of Europe along the northern coast of the Propontis, opposite Bithynia on the Asian side. It was occupied by the Thyni, a Thracian people who came from Thrace. Note that in the Middle Ages, Mesothynia (\"middle Thynia\") was the peninsula of modern Kocaeli.\n\nAccording to Greek mythology, its name came from Thyneas (Θυνέας) son of Phineas (Φινέας).\n\nIn the Argonautica (Book 2), Jason and the Argonauts are turned aside from the Clashing Rocks at Bithynia, and go to the opposite coast to consult King Phineus.\n"}
{"id": "18390919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18390919", "title": "Timeline of the United States housing bubble", "text": "Timeline of the United States housing bubble\n\nHousing prices peaked in early 2005, began declining in 2006 (see also United States housing market correction).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nYear-to-year decreases in both U.S. home sales and home prices accelerates rather than slowing, with U.S. Treasury secretary Paulson calling \"the housing decline ... the most significant risk to our economy.\" Home sales continue to fall. The decrease in existing-home sales is the steepest since 1989. In Q1/2007, S&P/Case-Shiller house price index records first year-over-year decline in nationwide house prices since 1991. The subprime mortgage industry collapses, foreclosure activity increases and rising interest rates threaten to depress prices further as problems in the subprime markets spread to the near-prime and prime mortgage markets.\n\nHome sales continue to fall. Fears of a U.S. recession. Global stock market corrections and volatility.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "273869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=273869", "title": "Ulrich Beck", "text": "Ulrich Beck\n\nUlrich Beck (15 May 1944 – 1 January 2015) was a well known German sociologist, and one of the most cited social scientists in the world during his lifetime. His work focused on questions of uncontrollability, ignorance and uncertainty in the modern age, and he coined the terms \"risk society\" and \"second modernity\" or \"reflexive modernization\". He also tried to overturn national perspectives that predominated in sociological investigations with a cosmopolitanism that acknowledges the interconnectedness of the modern world. He was a professor at the University of Munich and also held appointments at the \"Fondation Maison des Sciences de l’Homme\" (FMSH) in Paris, and at the London School of Economics.\n\nBeck was born in the Pomeranian town of Stolp, Germany (now Słupsk in Poland), in 1944, and grew up in Hanover. He began university studies with a focus on law at Freiburg, and from 1966 onwards studied sociology, philosophy, psychology and political science at the University of Munich. Starting in 1972, after earning a doctorate, he was employed at Munich as a sociologist. In 1979 he qualified as a university lecturer with a habilitation thesis. He received appointments as professor at the universities of Münster (1979–1981) and Bamberg (1981–1992). From 1992 until his death, Beck was professor of sociology and director of the Institute for Sociology at the University of Munich. He received numerous international awards and honors, including election to the Council and Executive Board of the German Society for Sociology.\n\nFrom 1995 to 1997 he was a member of the \"Kommission für Zukunftsfragen der Freistaaten Bayern und Sachsen\" (Bavarian and Saxon State Commission for Questions Concerning the Future). Beginning in 1999, he was the speaker of the DFG research programme on reflexive modernity.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2009 Beck was a spokesman of the Collaborative Reflexive Modernization Research Centre 536, an interdisciplinary consortium of four universities in the Munich area funded and overseen by the German Research Foundation (DFG). Beck's theory of interdisciplinary reflexive modernization on a basis of a wide range of topics in appropriate research was empirically tested. The theory of reflexive modernization works from the basic idea that the rise of the modern industrial age produces side-effects across the globe that provide the institutional basis and coordinates that modern nation-states question, modify, and open for political action.\n\nHe was active as sociologist and public intellectual in Germany and throughout the world, regularly intervening in debates on the European Union, climate change and nuclear energy. At the time of his death, he and his international research group were only 1.5 years into the 5-year research project \"Methodological Cosmopolitanism – in the Laboratory of Climate Change\" (the Cosmo-Climate Research Project), of which Beck was the Principal investigator. For this research project he received the prestigious ERC Advanced Grant, scheduled to terminate in 2018. Along with Beck, sociologists David Tyfield and Anders Blok lead work packages within the overall project. The project also fostered international research collaboration with various research 'hubs' in East Asia through the Europe-Asia Research Network (EARN). In cooperation with EARN, Beck and sociologist Sang-Jin Han had been set to lead a 2-year project for the Seoul Metropolitan Government beginning in 2015.\n\nBeck was a member of the Board of Trustees at the Jewish Center in Munich and a member of the German branch of PEN International.\n\nHe was married to the German social scientist Elisabeth Beck-Gernsheim. He died of a cardiac infarction on 1 January 2015, at the age of 70.\n\nFor 25 years, Beck delivered new diagnoses to the following question: How can social and political thought and action in the face of radical global change (environmental destruction, financial crisis, global warming, the crisis of democracy and the nation-state institutions) be intertwined in a new modernity? A radicalized modernity, for Beck, attacks its own foundations. Institutions such as the nation-state and the family are globalized 'from the inside'.\n\nBeck studied modernization, ecological problems, individualization and globalization. Later in his career, he embarked on exploring the changing conditions of work in a world of increasing global capitalism, declining influence of unions and flexibilisation of the labour process, a then new theory rooted in the concept of cosmopolitanism. Beck also contributed a number of new words to German and anglophone sociology, including \"risk society\", \"second modernity\", reflexive modernization and Brazilianization (Brasilianisierung). According to Beck, all contemporary political thinking emanates from the methodological nationalism of political thought and sociology (and other social sciences).\n\nBeck was the editor of the sociological journal, \"\" (in German, since 1980), author of some 150 articles, and author or editor of many books.\n\nOn 15 September 2010 Beck supported the European Parliament's Spinelli Group initiative to reinvigorate federalism in the European Union. The Union of European Federalists and its youth organisation Young European Federalists have been promoting the idea of European federalism for over 60 years, with a \"belief that only a European Federation, based on the idea of unity in diversity, could overcome the division of the European continent\". Prominent supporters of the initiative include Jacques Delors, Daniel Cohn-Bendit, Guy Verhofstadt, Andrew Duff and Elmar Brok.\n\n\nAmong his major works are:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5616384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5616384", "title": "Virtual war", "text": "Virtual war\n\nVirtual war signifies the increased use of and dependence on technology in the course of warfare. It includes the time/space separation between an attacker and the intended target which results in the \"sanitization\" of war. The concept has gained notoriety amongst policy makers and academics who study the Revolution in Military Affairs. James Der Derian, in his book \"Virtuous War: Mapping the Military-Industrial-Media-Entertainment Network\" elaborates extensively on the concept of Virtual War and the consequences of increased technological integration within modern militaries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8816557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8816557", "title": "Wojciech Kętrzyński", "text": "Wojciech Kętrzyński\n\nWojciech Kętrzyński (born Adalbert von Winkler; 11 July 1838 – 15 January 1918), was a historian and the director of the Ossolineum Library in Lemberg (Lwów), the capitol of Galicia, Austrian Empire. He focused on Polish history at a time when Poland was partitioned between foreign powers. He was the father of Stanisław Kętrzyński.\n\nThe Kętrzyński-family is of Kashubian origin and settled in Pomerania since the sixteenth century. In 1821 his father had changed his surname to \"von Winkler\", a direct translation of \"Kętrzyński\", while he served in the Prussian Army. After he left the military his father became a Prussian policeman (gendarm) at Lötzen where he married a local German wife and died in 1846.\n\nKętrzyński was born in Lötzen (Lec, modern Giżycko) as \"Adalbert von Winkler\", Province of Prussia, within the Kingdom of Prussia, and grew up under the care of a German family after his father's death. He was sent to a military school for soldier orphans at Potsdam in 1849 but returned to Masuria and passed his Abitur at Rastenburg (Rastembork, modern Kętrzyn). In 1856 his sister had discovered the family's ancestry and informed him about it, which caused his decision to identify himself as a Pole, even though he did not read or write Polish and knew only a few words and expressions. As Kętrzyński later wrote, at the time of his national conversion he \"was a German and felt himself to be German\" and this \"decision had been sudden and had raised no doubts\". In 1859 he enrolled at the University of Königsberg, still as \"von Winkler\", but used the name \"von Kętrzyński\" for his matriculation in 1861. Here he also spoke for the first time Polish to students.\n\nIn 1863 he was imprisoned for his support of the Polish January Uprising in the Russian partition and spent his jail time in Olsztyn (Allenstein), Berlin, and Kłodzko (Glatz). Throughout his imprisonment he translated his dissertation from German into Latin and Wincenty Pol's \"Song of our Land\" into German.\n\nAfter being released from prison, Kętrzyński completed his doctorate at the University of Königsberg (Krolewiec) and moved to the Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria within Austria-Hungary to pursue his interests. He became the head (1873) and the director (1876) of the Ossolineum Library in Lviv, then capital of the Kingdom of Galicia. Kętrzyński died there during World War I.\n\nIn recognition of his deeds after World War II, the town Rastenburg () in Masuria was renamed \"Kętrzyn\" after Kętrzyński in 1946. In Olsztyn a scientific institute was established named after him in 1963, called Ośrodka Badań Naukowych im. Wojciecha Kętrzyńskiego. Its primary mission is to document and research the history of Polish people (i.e. Slavic Masurians) and their culture in Warmia and Masuria, concentrating on their efforts to oppose Germanization. Another important subject of its research is the structure and administration of Royal Prussia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48984527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48984527", "title": "Xenagoras (historian)", "text": "Xenagoras (historian)\n\nXenagoras () was a Greek historian quoted by Dionysius of Halicarnassus, from whom we learn that Xenagoras wrote that Odysseus and Circe had three sons, Rhomos, Anteias, and Ardeas, who founded the three cities which were called by their names. He wrote a work titled \"Chronicle\" (Χρόνοι), and another on islands (Περὶ νήσων). The 5th century writer Macrobius also refers to the third book of the history of Xenagoras.\n\nThis Xenagoras was possibly the same Xenagoras as father of the historian Nymphis.\n"}
