{"id": "51569354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51569354", "title": "1436 in Ireland", "text": "1436 in Ireland\n\nEvents from the year 1436 in Ireland.\n\n"}
{"id": "6366783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6366783", "title": "Akhmatova's Orphans", "text": "Akhmatova's Orphans\n\nAkhmatova Orphans () was a group of four twentieth-century Russian poets — Joseph Brodsky, Yevgeny Rein, Anatoly Naiman, and Dmitri Bobyshev — who gathered as acolytes around the poet Anna Akhmatova. Akhmatova called them her \"magic choir\", but after Akhmatova's death they were called \"Akhmatova's Orphans\".\n\n"}
{"id": "53099844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53099844", "title": "Anyaa-Sowutuom (Ghana parliamentary constituency)", "text": "Anyaa-Sowutuom (Ghana parliamentary constituency)\n\nAnyaa Sowutuom is a constituency represented in the Parliament of Ghana. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nAnyaa Sowutuom is one the constituencies that broke away from the now defunct Weija Constituency. Anyaa Sowutuom is located in the Greater Accra Region of Ghana. The current Member of Parliament is Shirley Ayorkor Botchway.\n"}
{"id": "3901419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3901419", "title": "Aramco Financial Services Company", "text": "Aramco Financial Services Company\n\nAramco Financial Services Company (AFSC) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Saudi Refining, Inc., and ultimately of Aramco Services Company.\n\nAFSC serves as the financial guarantor for the Certificates of Financial Responsibility issued by the U.S. Coast Guard to the tanker fleet owned and operated by Vela International Marine, Ltd. This service guarantees the financial liability obligations of the Vela fleet under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, and ensures the ability of Vela-owned tankers to deliver crude shipments to U.S. ports.\n"}
{"id": "11745659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11745659", "title": "Bossangoa Airport", "text": "Bossangoa Airport\n\nBossangoa Airport is an airport serving Bossangoa, a city in the Ouham prefecture of the Central African Republic. The airport is on the west side of the city.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30927783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30927783", "title": "Camera Austria Award", "text": "Camera Austria Award\n\nThe Camera Austria Award for Contemporary Photography by the City of Graz (\"Camera Austria-Preis für zeitgenössische Fotografie der Stadt Graz\") is an award given every two years since 1989 by the city of Graz.\n\n"}
{"id": "50064146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50064146", "title": "Chapel of St. Mary Queen of Peace", "text": "Chapel of St. Mary Queen of Peace\n\nThe St. Mary Queen of Peace Chapel () is a Catholic chapel located in Villa Las Estrellas, in the Chilean Antarctic Territory (claimed by Chile), which includes in the commune of Antarctica, within the Region of Magallanes and Chilean Antarctica, about 1580 km from Punta Arenas. It is one of eight churches on Antarctica. The chapel is basically a large container of metal, modified so that it resembles a common church, whose interior has electricity and a proper heating system. Religious ceremonies are performed by a deacon, who lives permanently in the villa.\n\nThe chapel is relatively new, there since the late twentieth century. Currently the chapel is the southernmost Chilean Catholic church, and one of the southernmost of the planet.\n\nThe temple is part of the Catholic Military Bishopric of Chile (\"Obispado Castrense de Chile\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2499103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2499103", "title": "Claw beaker", "text": "Claw beaker\n\nA claw beaker is a name given by archaeologists to a type of drinking vessel often found as a grave good in 6th and 7th century AD Frankish and Anglo-Saxon burials.\n\nFound in northern France, eastern England, Germany and the Low Countries, it is a plain conical beaker with small, claw-like handles or lugs protruding from the sides made from gobs of molten glass applied to the beaker's walls. The centre of manufacturing was probably in modern-day Germany and the glass was sometimes tinted brown, blue or yellow.\n\n"}
{"id": "1234617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1234617", "title": "Clutha (dance)", "text": "Clutha (dance)\n\nClutha is a Scottish country dance, in which the eight dancers are arranged in a square set as for the Eightsome Reel . It is a 48 bar reel. An Clutha (more often spelt An Cluadha) is the Gaelic name for The Clyde. It is one of the modern Scottish country dances and was first published by the Royal Scottish Country Dance Society in 1983.\n\n"}
{"id": "53930027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53930027", "title": "Constitution (Amendment No. 12) Act 1930", "text": "Constitution (Amendment No. 12) Act 1930\n\nThe Constitution (Amendment No. 12) Act, 1930 was an Act amending the Constitution of the Irish Free State. It amended Article 35 of the constitution.\n\nAs enacted, Article 35 provided that a question as to whether a Bill was a money bill could be referred, at the request of 2/5ths of either house, within 3 days of the Bill being passed by Dail Eireann, to a Committee of Privileges comprising 3 members from each House and chaired by a judge of the Supreme Court of Ireland.\n\nUnder the 12th amendment, the provision was changed to make such a referral easier. The time for reference was extended to 7 days (or the return of the Bill by Seanad Eireann if earlier), and the threshold reduced to 2/5ths or a simple majority vote of the Seanad at which at least 30 members attended. Failure of the committee to report within 21 days rendered the decision of the Chairman of Dail Eireann final.\n\nThe Act became obsolete on the repeal of the 1922 Constitution by the Constitution of Ireland in 1937, and has formally been repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 2016.\n"}
{"id": "15044024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15044024", "title": "Democratic Party (Gambia)", "text": "Democratic Party (Gambia)\n\nThe Democratic Party was a political party in the Gambia. The party was founded during the pre-independence period in the colony of Bathurst (currently the national capital Banjul). Ahead of the 1962 general elections, the DP merged with the Muslim Congress Party to form the Democratic Congress Alliance. In 1960, Alieu Ebrima Cham Joof who has been one of the original members was elected at its Social Secretary.\n"}
{"id": "5323089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5323089", "title": "Diana Express", "text": "Diana Express\n\nDiana Express () is a Bulgarian rock band formed by Mitko Shterev in 1974 in Yambol.\n\nBetween 1974-1984, he discovers and creates Diana Express with young artists, whom later became stars: Vasil Naidenov, George Stanchev, Iliya Angelov\n\nFor a short time in the Diana Express transfers Chocho Vladovski, Yuksel Ahmedov from Fonoekspres. Some of the most popular songs are \"Sineva\" with Vasil Naidenov, \"Soul\" with George Stanchev, \"Blues For Two\" by Ilia Angelov.\n\nIn 1998, released a CD with the most popular of Diana Express, a new dance arrangement, as most of the songs are performed by young singer Gaul ().\n\nLately, the band teamed with English hard rock singer John Lawton for their latest album, \"The Power Of Mind\" (2012).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087843", "title": "Diggil-ej", "text": "Diggil-ej\n\nDiggil-ej is a former weekly radio program on Sweden's SR Atlas digital radio station. It was broadcast on Wednesdays at 21.00 CET and was hosted by Kris Boswell and featured a collection of Eurovision Song Contest related songs.\n\n"}
{"id": "16308210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16308210", "title": "DigitAlb", "text": "DigitAlb\n\nDigitAlb is an Albanian media, digital satellite and terrestrial TV platform based in Tirana, Albania. The TV platform began terrestrial broadcasts in July 2004, and satellite broadcasts by the end of that year. At the same time, DigitAlb began broadcasting some channels of defunct AlbaniaSat's satellite platform SAT + which eventually went bankrupt. DigitAlb closely collaborates with sports package SuperSport while having introduced wireless DVB-H technology for wireless TV for the first time in Albania since 2006. The company forms part of Top Media Group together with Top Channel, Top Albania Radio, Top Gold Radio, Gazeta Shqip, Shqip Magazine, Top News, VGA Studio, My Music Radio, and musicAL. In Europe, Digitalb will broadcast until 2020 on Eutelsat.\n\nDigitAlb has been running since 2004 and it has already amassed more than 100,000 terrestrial and 200,000 satellite subscribers in Albania alone not counting subcribers via cable companies IPKO in Kosovo and ABCom in Albania. A variety of channels, content and price have domestically made DigitAlb the most popular platform in Albania. The thematic channels edited and owned by DigitAlb are the most preferred among the audience. Having 9 movie channels + 2 HD movie channels, 1 channel for all family, 3 documentaries channels, 3 children channels, 7 sport channels (all of them in HD), news channels, music channels, adult channels and many other Albanian National Channels and International channels (Fox channels group, Discovery channels group, Viacom channels, Eurosport channels, Disney Channel, Nickelodeon, Travel Channel etc.).\n\nOn 14 February 2013, DigitAlb launched a new model of set top box, and also new services. Launching a Middleware set top box, DigitAlb started interactive services for its customers. So Push VOD, Online Betting, Lotteries, Games, IPTV, Web navigation through the set top box and many other options became available to customers. This was the most important new development since the launch of the HD service back in 2007.\n\n\nAll DigitAlb decoders are Conax Conditional access Embedded.\n\n"}
{"id": "12195022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12195022", "title": "Drakarna över Helsingfors", "text": "Drakarna över Helsingfors\n\nDrakarna över Helsingfors (\"Kites over Helsingfors)\" is a Swedish-language novel written by Finnish author Kjell Westö. The book tells about the life and faiths of the Bexar family, a Swedish-speaking Finnish family living in Helsinki (\"Helsingfors\" in Swedish), from the 1960s to the 1990s.\n\nIn 2001, the novel was made into a film of the same name starring Pirkka-Pekka Petelius.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9887921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9887921", "title": "Eacus (god)", "text": "Eacus (god)\n\nEacus is a weather god worshipped in Iberian Spain. He is known from the area of Castile and was syncretised with the local Roman deity Jupiter Solutorius.\n\n"}
{"id": "59221766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59221766", "title": "Fauna of Germany", "text": "Fauna of Germany\n\nSee\n\n"}
{"id": "21447199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21447199", "title": "Fifth Avenue Shoe Repair", "text": "Fifth Avenue Shoe Repair\n\nFifth Avenue Shoe Repair is a Swedish fashion label founded in 2004 by Astrid Olsson and Lee Cotter. In January 2009 the label received the \"Designer of the Year\" at the Swedish Elle Style Awards.\n\nThe label carries two lines, a ready to wear line as well as a couture inspired line that goes under the name \"By the no\".\n\n"}
{"id": "16162302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16162302", "title": "Flag of Vendsyssel", "text": "Flag of Vendsyssel\n\nThe proposed flag of Vendsyssel in Denmark was introduced by the mayor of Hjørring in 1976, and is used to some extent.\n\nThe flag is named Vendelbrog (with reference to the Danish flag Dannebrog interpreted as The Danish cloth).\n\nIt is a Nordic Cross flag in blue, orange and green. The blue colour symbolizes the sea. The orange/red colour is symbol of the sun and the beaches of Vendsyssel, and the green is for the lush nature. By tradition, only people born in Vendsyssel can use the flag.\n\nThe flag is not officially recognised, but it used to be a part of the insignia of the Royal Danish Air Force 723rd Air Squadron.\n"}
{"id": "36450180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36450180", "title": "Flik 14", "text": "Flik 14\n\nFlik 14, later Flik 14J (in Hungarian 14. repülőszázad or 14. vadászszázad) was an air company of the Imperial and Royal Aviation Troops. The company used Phönix II D aircraft.\n\nIt was organised in 1914, the captain of the company was Jenő Kara. At the beginning it worked on the front lines in Russia, later it was sent to the Italian front. The second leader of the company was Lieutenant Károly Benedek Károly. The company had one known ace pilot, Karl Teichmann who officially had one victory.\n\nAt the end of the war neither Austria, nor Hungary was allowed to maintain an air force, so Flik 14 was disbanded.\n"}
{"id": "54480331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54480331", "title": "Gibraltar Social Democrats leadership election, 2017", "text": "Gibraltar Social Democrats leadership election, 2017\n\nAn election for the leadership of the Gibraltar Social Democrats was held after the previous leader, Daniel Feetham, resigned.\n\nAfter two MPs resigned the party whip to become independents, the party has five members of parliament. Excluding Daniel Feetham, they are as follows:\n\n\nThe candidates who decided to contest were the party’s interim leader, Roy Clinton and Keith Azopardi, former minister and Deputy Chief Minister of Gibraltar, who had rejoined the party in 2017 after leaving them in 2003 and politics completely since 2012\n\nTwo former ministers, Keith Azopardi and Damon Bossino, are said to be considering applying for the post. A third, Peter Montegriffo, has declined to stand. Damon Bossino also announced to decline to take stand later on. Keith Azzopardi announced to stand for leadership and is now challenging Interim leader, MP and candidate, Roy Clinton.\n"}
{"id": "31202998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31202998", "title": "Grainville School", "text": "Grainville School\n\nGrainville School is an 11–16 inclusive secondary school in Jersey. The school has approximately 600 students and 70 members of staff.\n\nGrainville School is an 11–16 state non-fee paying secondary school in Jersey, Channel Islands. It was established in 1980.\n\n1999: Investors in People (first organisation in Jersey): latest award 2014-2017\n\n2009: Leading Parent Partnership Award, latest 2012-2015\n\n2012: National School Award for First Aid (St John's Ambulance) UK Winner\n\n2014: Jersey Enterprise Award Winner Not for Profit Organisation of the Year 2014\n\n2014: Jersey Enterprise Award Winner: Organisation that has done the most in Developing Skills in 2014\n\n2014: Jersey Customer Service Award Finalist\n\n2014: Institute of Directors Award, Jersey: Headteacher awarded Director of the Year in Public Service\n\n2014: Institute of Directors Award, UK: Headteacher awarded Director of the Year for Public Service/Third Sector and Second Overall Director of the Year in the UK 2014\n\n\n"}
{"id": "145933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145933", "title": "Guy Verhofstadt", "text": "Guy Verhofstadt\n\nGuy Maurice Marie Louise Verhofstadt (; born 11 April 1953) is a Belgian politician who has served as the Leader of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe and a Member of the European Parliament (MEP) from Belgium since 2009. He served as the 47th Prime Minister of Belgium from 1999 to 2008, Deputy Prime Minister of Belgium from 1985 to 1992 and Minister of Budget from 1985 to 1992. He was a Member of the Chamber of Representatives from 1985 to 2009.\n\nSince 2009 he has served as a Member of the European Parliament where he is the leader of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE) and founded the inter-parliamentarian federalist Spinelli Group. He was the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Party nominee for President of the European Commission in the 2014 European Parliament election, and is the European Parliament's representative in the Brexit negotiations. He advocates a federal Europe.\n\nBorn in 1953 in Dendermonde, he became president of the Liberal Flemish Student's union (1972–1974) while studying law at the University of Ghent. He quickly became the secretary of Willy De Clercq, who was at that time the president of the Flemish liberal party (PVV). In 1982, at age 29, he became president of the party. In 1985 he was elected into the Chamber of Deputies, and became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Budget under Prime Minister Wilfried Martens. Because of his economic views and his young age, he became known as \"Baby Thatcher\".\n\nAfter being ousted from government he became leader of the opposition. After a failed attempt to form a government in November 1991, he changed the PVV into the Flemish Liberals and Democrats (VLD). This new party attracted many politicians from other parties, notably from the Volksunie (VU) and the Christian People's Party (CVP).\n\nHowever, despite the fact that many had high expectations, the party did not manage to outstrip the CVP. Verhofstadt resigned and disappeared from the political scene, only to return to the party's presidency in 1997 with a less radical image. He gradually moved away from neoliberalism (partly under the influence of his brother Dirk, a social liberal political philosopher), and became more of a centrist figure, a change which especially became clear during his first term as Prime Minister.\n\nPartly because of a food scandal that broke out just before the 1999 elections, the VLD became the largest party in the country, obtaining over 22% of the vote in Flanders. He quickly formed a coalition with the Flemish socialists and greens and the French-speaking counterparts of these parties (a symmetric coalition) in Brussels and Wallonia. He was appointed Prime Minister on 12 July 1999, the first liberal to hold that office since 1938. It was the first Belgian government without a Christian Democratic party since 1958, and the first one to include green parties.\n\nVerhofstadt was awarded the Vision for Europe Award in 2002 for his work toward a more unified Europe. The economic situation gave him leeway to raise the lowest social alimonies and lowering taxation. After 2001, the economic situation worsened. The 'Aging Fund' or 'Silver Fund' was set up, in order to ensure the maintenance of pensions until 2030. But despite his efforts to boost the economy while attempting to maintain the social benefits system, unemployment rose, after previously falling during the second Dehaene cabinet.\n\nMuch to the disapproval of his coalition partners, Verhofstadt and his VLD opposed granting the right to vote to non-EU residents. Instead, they proposed and were able to liberalise the procedure for obtaining Belgian citizenship. During the prelude to the Iraq crisis of 2003, Belgium joined France, Germany and Russia in opposition to the invasion.\n\nFollowing the 2003 general elections, Verhofstadt formed his second cabinet without the green parties, who were virtually annihilated in the election. For various reasons, the formation of the second government was delayed well beyond normal: the economic situation worsened to 1999 levels, both politically similar parties (liberals and socialists) gained approximately the same seats.\n\nVarious governments were pressing for the abolition of the law of universal competence (also known as the \"genocide law\"), which gave Belgian judges the authority to accuse and sentence non-Belgians with crimes against humanity. Accusations that were made had rarely been followed up, and were often dismissed as being little more than politically motivated international insults. Verhofstadt's second government was sworn in on 12 July 2003, with both coalition partners having agreed to abolish the so-called \"genocide law\" and replace it with a much weaker one. \n\nGuy Verhofstadt second Government consisted of his liberal Open VLD their sister liberal MR, the Flemish social democratic SP.a and their sister social democratic party PS to form another Purple coalition. \n\nIn the Flemish regional elections of 13 June 2004, his party lost votes, slipping into third place in Flanders. Though this has had no direct impact upon his position as Prime Minister, there were rumours that the Christian Democratic and Flemish (CD&V) party that won the elections, would participate in federal government. Verhofstadt was suggested as a candidate to replace Romano Prodi as the next President of the European Commission, but his candidacy was opposed and rejected by a coalition led by Tony Blair and other leaders who had disagreed with Verhofstadt's uncompromising criticisms of the Anglo-American invasion of Iraq the previous year.\n\nAfter this Verhofstadt was faced with a succession of internal crises. The first, coming to a head in the autumn of 2004, was the question whether DHL would invest in Brussels Airport, located in the Flemish municipality of Zaventem. The question which nearly caused the collapse of the cabinet was whether to grant DHL extra landing rights during the night, this being a hot topic of public debate and various court cases. In the end the split between employment and night rest was for nought as DHL had only used the Zaventem option in order to get better conditions from Leipzig.\n\nFollowing the DHL crisis, Verhofstadt faced a crisis over the allocation of constitutional and administrative powers and responsibilities for the Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde district (commonly abbreviated as BHV). Division of the powers had been written into the government coalition agreement by the parties controlling the Flemish regional government. This triggered a veto from the Walloon parties. The crisis dragged on until spring 2005 when the matter was shelved till after the federal elections of 2007. By 2005 the Flemish parties participating in the government did not want the government to collapse, given their poor ratings in the opinion polls.\n\nThe constitutional court of Belgium ruled that all elections held after 10 June 2007 would be constitutionally invalid because of the non-separation of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde. In the autumn of 2005, Verhofstadt managed to score a success when he was able to negotiate a \"Generation Pact\" with regard to employment and social reforms, regardless of the opposition and actions of the unions. \n\nVerhofstadt was sworn in as municipal councilor in Ghent in January 2007, as a result of the 2006 municipal elections. In the council, he is seated next to another cabinet minister, Freya Van den Bossche, who was elected a municipal councillor as well. He even postponed a visit to the Russian President Vladimir Putin to be able to go to the first session of the newly elected council. \n\nVerhofstadt led the VLD into the 2007 general election. Already with the 2006 municipal elections, the VLD showed signs of fatigue with the Flemish voter, who seem to have had enough of eight years of Verhofstadt, and the purple coalition governments. In an evening speech on election day, Verhofstadt conceded defeat and asked for a new generation to lead the VLD; he was to step down as prime minister after formation of a new government. However, the formation of a new government was complicated, and in the end, CD&V politician Yves Leterme failed to bring about a new government.\n\nYet certain policy matters became politically urgent. The King therefore asked Verhofstadt to mediate an \"interim government\" that would be in office for three months and could propose a 2008 budget. A deal was struck in December, and the \"interim government\" was set for inauguration on 21 December 2007. Two days later, this interim government won a vote of confidence in parliament, with 97 votes in favor, 46 opposed, and one abstention, assuring its legitimacy for three months.\n\nA \"permanent government\" under leadership of Yves Leterme assumed office on 20 March 2008.\n\nOne of the first decisions of the new government, on 21 December 2007, was to raise the security level after foiling an attempted jail break of an Al Qaeda operative.\n\nAfter his premiership Verhofstadt took up the seat of Senator to which he had been elected in 2007. \n\nIn the 2009 European Parliament election, Verhofstadt was elected a member of the European Parliament for the term 2009–2014. He has since been serving on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.\n\nOn 1 July 2009 Verhofstadt was elected President of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe group in the European Parliament. In this capacity, he also serves on the Conference of Presidents of the European Parliament. \n\nVerhofstadt was put forward as the possible candidate for replacing José Manuel Barroso as the president of the European Commission by a coalition of greens, socialists and liberals. On 15 September 2010, he supported the new Spinelli Group, which was founded to reinvigorate the drive for federalisation of the European Union. \n\nIn September 2016, Verhofstadt was named the European Parliament's representative on matters relating to Brexit. In his public statements, Verhofstadt has focused on the rights of EU citizens within the UK and British citizens in the EU. In November 2016 Verhofstadt warned the European Parliament of a coming \"ring of autocrats\", citing the increasing assertiveness of Russia and Turkey, and contemplating the (at that time widely discounted) possibility of a Trump presidency.\n\n\nSince 2011, Verhofstadt has written monthly commentaries on strategic spotlights for Project Syndicate, an international media organization. \n\nVerhofstadt condemned the killings of protesters during Bahrain's pro-democracy uprising in 2011. He said: \"Protestors were killed, tortured and imprisoned. These incidents need to be properly investigated and brought to justice - not swept under the carpet. Until this has happened, I fully agree that the Formula One Grand Prix should not return to Bahrain.\" \n\nIn 2017, Verhofstadt opposed the Catalan independence referendum, but also denounced Spain's use of violence. Verhofstadt said that \"referendum lacked basic democratic legitimacy.\" According to Verhofstadt, the former Catalan president Carles Puigdemont \"left Catalonia in chaos and devastation.\"\n\nIn April 2015, Verhofstadt criticized Greek prime minister Alexis Tsipras over his meeting with Russian president Vladimir Putin in the wake of the Ukrainian crisis and difficult negotiations between the EU/ECB/IMF and Tsipras's recently elected Syriza-led government. Via Twitter according to the New York \"Times\", Verhofstadt said Tsipras \"should stop trying to play #Putin against the EU\" and that Tsipras \"should play according to the common rules and conduct serious reforms\".\n\nIn May 2015, news media reported that Verhofstadt was included in a Russian blacklist of prominent people from the European Union who are not allowed to enter the country.\nIn August 2015, Verhofstadt called for a reform of the EU's asylum and migration system, in reaction to the European migrant crisis. He also criticized UK Prime Minister David Cameron and French president François Hollande for opposing the European Commission's proposal to distribute asylum requests for migrants over all countries of the European Union. He also called on governments of France, the UK, and Hungary to stop building up walls and border security measures, and to shift their effort on humanitarian assistance. This humanitarian assistance includes asking the dysfunctional countries that source migrants to address their own dysfunction.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38411245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38411245", "title": "HMC Projects in Central and Eastern Europe", "text": "HMC Projects in Central and Eastern Europe\n\nHMC Projects in Central and Eastern Europe is a registered charity and a company limited by guarantee operating from UK. It offers opportunities for students and teachers from 14 Central and Eastern European countries to respectively either study or teach in a British independent school for an academic year.\n\nIn the spring 1992 \"Conference & Common Room\" an article was published about schools forging individual links with countries in Central and Eastern Europe. This inspired Robin Schlich to call for a formation of a committee, so no countries would go under- or over-represented. On 5 October 1992 the first meeting of the committee was held in HMC offices in Leicester, with Roger Wicks as the chairman and Robin Schlich as the secretary. Also, in that September the first two students from Czechoslovakia came to the UK.\n\nIn September 1993 the first official HMC scholars came to United Kingdom as part of the students' scholarship scheme. In that year students came from seven countries: Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania and Slovakia. In 1994 Croatia, Macedonia, Moldova, Mongolia, Poland and Yugoslavia followed. Rest of the countries have joined during the following years.\n\nIn 1996 a scheme for young teachers from Eastern and Central Europe was also set up. It was soon approved by the British Council and UK Border Agency. Since 1996 more than 300 teachers have joined British independent schools for a year.\n\nCurrently the project consists of 14 countries in central and eastern Europe. 13 of these take part in both of the schemes: Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Georgia, Moldova, Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia and Ukraine. Hungary only takes part in the teachers' scheme. In 2013 Georgia will also be joining the project. Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia and Mongolia have also previously taken part in the project.\n\nThe project has sent students to almost 100 schools. The project mainly consists of public schools, but also includes some academies, like Wymondham College. During the years, some international schools have also taken part: Aiglon College in Switzerland, British School in Brussels, Salem Castle School in Germany and Bromsgrove International School in Thailand.\n\nDoina Cebotari - General Secretary of Washington European Society, Advisor to the Prime Minister of Moldova\nRăzvan Orăşanu - former Senior Advisor on Economic Affairs for the Prime Minister of Romania\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42880289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42880289", "title": "Henry Hughes (Vicar Apostolic of Gibraltar)", "text": "Henry Hughes (Vicar Apostolic of Gibraltar)\n\nHenry Hughes, O.F.M. (1788–1860) was an Irish-born Roman Catholic bishop and Franciscan friar who served as the Vicar Apostolic of Gibraltar from 1839 to 1856.\n\nBorn in Wexford, Ireland on 26 June 1788, he was appointed the Vicar Apostolic of Gibraltar and Titular Bishop of \"Heliopolis in Augustamnica\" by Pope Gregory XVI on 15 March 1839. His consecration to the Episcopate took place on 21 March 1841; the principal consecrator was Giacomo Filippo Fransoni, Cardinal-Priest of \"Santa Maria in Ara Coeli\", with Ignazio Giovanni Cadolini, Titular Archbishop of \"Edessa in Osrhoëne\", serving as co-consecrator.\n\nBishop Hughes resigned in 1856 and died on 12 October 1860, aged 72.\n"}
{"id": "39937022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39937022", "title": "International relations of the Great Powers (1814–1919)", "text": "International relations of the Great Powers (1814–1919)\n\nThis article covers worldwide diplomacy and, more generally, the international relations of the major powers from 1814 to 1919. The international relations of minor countries are covered in their own history articles. This era covers the period from the end of the Napoleonic Wars and the Congress of Vienna (1814–15), to the end of the First World War and the Paris Peace Conference. For the previous era see International relations, 1648–1814. For the 1920s and 1930s see International relations (1919–1939).\n\nImportant themes include the rapid industrialization and growing power of Britain, France and Germany, and, later in the period, the United States and Japan. This led to imperialist and colonialist competitions for influence and power throughout the world, most famously the Scramble for Africa in the 1880s and 1890s. The reverberations are still widespread and consequential in the 21st-century. Britain established an informal economic network that, combined with its colonies and its Royal Navy, made it the hegemonic nation until its power was challenged by Germany. It was a peaceful century, with no wars between the great powers, apart from the 1854–1871 interval, and some small wars between Russia and the Ottoman Empire. After 1900 there were a series of wars in the Balkan region, which exploded out of control into World War I (1914–18)—a massively devastating event that was unexpected in its timing, duration, casualties, and long-term impact.\n\nIn 1814 diplomats recognised five Great Powers: France, Britain, Russia, Austria (in 1867–1918, Austria-Hungary) and Prussia (in 1871 the German Empire). Italy was added to this group after its unification and on the eve of the First World War there were two major blocs in Europe: the Triple Entente formed by France, Britain and Russia and the Triple Alliance formed by Germany, Italy and Austria-Hungary. The Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Greece, Portugal, Spain, and Switzerland were smaller powers. Romania, Bulgaria, Serbia, and Montenegro initially operated as autonomous vassals for they were legally still part of the declining Ottoman Empire, which may also be included among the major powers, before gaining their independence. By 1905 two rapidly growing non-European states, Japan and the United States, had joined the Great Powers. The Great War unexpectedly tested their military, diplomatic, social and economic capabilities to the limit. Germany, Austria-Hungary and the Ottoman Empire were defeated; Germany lost its great power status, and the others were broken up into collections of states. The winners Britain, France, Italy and Japan gained permanent seats at the governing council of the new League of Nations. The United States, meant to be the fifth permanent member, decided to operate independently and never joined the League. For the following periods see Diplomatic history of World War I and International relations (1919–1939).\n\nFor the previous diplomatic era, see International relations, 1648–1814<br>\n\nAs the four major European powers (Britain, Prussia, Russia and Austria) opposing the French Empire in the Napoleonic Wars saw Napoleon's power collapsing in 1814, they started planning for the postwar world. The Treaty of Chaumont of March 1814 reaffirmed decisions that had been made already and which would be ratified by the more important Congress of Vienna of 1814–15. They included the establishment of a confederated Germany including both Austria and Prussia (plus the Czech lands), the division of French protectorates and annexations into independent states, the restoration of the Bourbon kings of Spain, the enlargement of the Netherlands to include what in 1830 became modern Belgium, and the continuation of British subsidies to its allies. The Treaty of Chaumont united the powers to defeat Napoleon and became the cornerstone of the Concert of Europe, which formed the balance of power for the next two decades.\n\nOne goal of diplomacy throughout the period was to achieve a \"balance of power,\" so that no one or two powers would be dominant. If one power gained an advantage – for example by winning a war and acquiring new territory-- its rivals might seek \"compensation\" -- that is, territorial or other gains, even though they were not part of the war in the first place. The bystander might be angry if the winner of the war did not provide enough compensation. For example in 1866, Prussia and supporting north German States defeated Austria and its southern German allies, but France was angry that it did not get any compensation to balance off the Prussian gains. \n\nThe Congress of Vienna (1814–1815) dissolved the Napoleonic world and attempted to restore the monarchies Napoleon had overthrown, ushering in an era of reaction. Under the leadership of Metternich, the prime minister of Austria (1809–48), and Lord Castlereagh, the foreign minister of Great Britain (1812–1822), the Congress set up a system to preserve the peace. Under the Concert of Europe (or \"Congress system\"), the major European powers—Britain, Russia, Prussia, Austria, and (after 1818) France—pledged to meet regularly to resolve differences. This plan was the first of its kind in European history and seemed to promise a way to collectively manage European affairs and promote peace. It was the forerunner of the League of Nations and the United Nations but it collapsed by 1823.\n\nThe Congress resolved the Polish–Saxon crisis at Vienna and the question of Greek independence at Laibach. Three major European congresses took place. The Congress of Aix-la-Chapelle (1818) ended the military occupation of France and adjusted downward the 700 million francs the French were obligated to pay as reparations. The Russian tsar proposed the formation of an entirely new alliance, to include all of the signatories from the Vienna treaties, to guarantee the sovereignty, territorial integrity, and preservation of the ruling governments of all members of this new coalition. The tsar further proposed an international army, with the Russian army as its nucleus, to provide the wherewithal to intervene in any country that needed it. Lord Castlereagh saw this as a highly undesirable commitment to reactionary policies. He recoiled at the idea of Russian armies marching across Europe to put down popular uprisings. Furthermore, to admit all the smaller countries would create intrigue and confusion. Britain refused to participate, so the idea was abandoned.\n\nThe other meetings proved meaningless as each nation realized the Congresses were not to their advantage, where disputes were resolved with a diminishing degree of effectiveness.\n\nTo achieve lasting peace, the Concert of Europe tried to maintain the balance of power. Until the 1860s the territorial boundaries laid down at the Congress of Vienna were maintained, and even more important there was an acceptance of the theme of balance with no major aggression. Otherwise, the Congress system had \"failed\" by 1823. In 1818 the British decided not to become involved in continental issues that did not directly affect them. They rejected the plan of Tsar Alexander I to suppress future revolutions. The Concert system fell apart as the common goals of the Great Powers were replaced by growing political and economic rivalries. Artz says the Congress of Verona in 1822 \"marked the end\". There was no Congress called to restore the old system during the great revolutionary upheavals of 1848 with their demands for revision of the Congress of Vienna's frontiers along national lines.\n\nBritish foreign policy was set by George Canning (1822–27), who avoided close cooperation with other powers. Britain, with its unchallenged Royal Navy and increasing financial wealth and industrial strength, built its foreign policy on the principle that no state should be allowed to dominate the Continent. It wanted to support the Ottoman Empire as a bulwark against Russian expansionism. It opposed interventions designed to suppress democracy, and was especially worried that France and Spain planned to suppress the independence movement underway in Latin America. Canning cooperated with the United States to promulgate the Monroe Doctrine to persevere newly independent Latin American states. His goal was to prevent French dominance and allow British merchants access to the opening markets.\n\nAn important liberal advance was the abolition of the international slave trade. It began with legislation in Britain and the United States in 1807, which was increasingly enforced over subsequent decades by the British Royal Navy under treaties Britain negotiated, or coerced, other nations into agreeing. The result was a reduction of over 95% in the volume of the slave trade from Africa to the New World. About 1000 slaves a year were illegally brought into the United States, as well as some to Cuba and Brazil. Slavery was abolished in the British Empire in 1833, the French Republic in 1848, the United States in 1865, and Brazil in 1888.\n\nSpain was at war with Britain from 1798 to 1808, and the British Royal Navy cut off its contacts with its colonies. Trade was handled by neutral American and Dutch traders. The colonies set up temporary governments or juntas which were effectively independent from Spain. The division exploded between Spaniards who were born in Spain (called \"peninsulares\") versus those of Spanish descent born in New Spain (called \"criollos\" in Spanish or \"creoles\" in English) The two groups wrestled for power, with the criollos leading the call for independence and eventually winning that independence. Spain lost all of its American colonies, except Cuba and Puerto Rico, in a complex series of revolts from 1808 to 1826.\n\nMultiple revolutions in Latin America allowed the region to break free of the mother country. Repeated attempts to regain control failed, as Spain had no help from European powers. Indeed, Britain and the United States worked against Spain, enforcing the Monroe Doctrine. British merchants and bankers took a dominant role in Latin America, In 1824, the armies of generals José de San Martín of Argentina and Simón Bolívar of Venezuela defeated the last Spanish forces; the final defeat came at the Battle of Ayacucho in southern Peru. After the loss of its colonies, Spain played a minor role in international affairs. Spain kept Cuba, which repeatedly revolted in three wars of independence, culminating in the Cuban War of Independence. The United States demanded reforms from Spain, which Spain refused. The U.S. intervened by war in 1898. Winning easily, the U.S. took Cuba and gave it independence. The U.S. also took the Spanish colonies of the Philippines and Guam. Though it still had small colonial holdings in North Africa, Spain's role in international affairs was essentially over.\n\nThe Greek War of Independence was the major military conflict in the 1820s. The Great powers supported the Greeks, but did not want the Ottoman Empire destroyed. Greece was initially to be an autonomous state under Ottoman suzerainty, but by 1832, in the Treaty of Constantinople, it was recognized as a fully independent kingdom.\n\nAfter some initial success the Greek rebels were beset by internal disputes. The Ottomans, with major aid from Egypt, cruelly crushed the rebellion and harshly punished the Greeks. Humanitarian concerns in Europe were outraged, as typified by English poet Lord Byron. The context of the three Great Powers' intervention was Russia's long-running expansion at the expense of the decaying Ottoman Empire. However Russia's ambitions in the region were seen as a major geostrategic threat by the other European powers. Austria feared the disintegration of the Ottoman Empire would destabilize its southern borders. Russia's gave strong emotional support for the fellow-Orthodox Christian Greeks. The British were motivated by strong public support for the Greeks. Fearing unilateral Russian action in support of the Greeks, Britain and France bound Russia by treaty to a joint intervention which aimed to secure Greek autonomy whilst preserving Ottoman territorial integrity as a check on Russia.\n\nThe Powers agreed, by the Treaty of London (1827), to force the Ottoman government to grant the Greeks autonomy within the empire and despatched naval squadrons to Greece to enforce their policy. The decisive Allied naval victory at the Battle of Navarino broke the military power of the Ottomans and their Egyptian allies. Victory saved the fledgling Greek Republic from collapse. But it required two more military interventions, by Russia in the form of the Russo-Turkish War of 1828–9 and by a French expeditionary force to the Peloponnese to force the withdrawal of Ottoman forces from central and southern Greece and to finally secure Greek independence.\n\nThe world became much smaller as long-distance travel and communications improved dramatically. Every decade there were more ships, more scheduled destinations, faster trips, and lower fares for passengers and cheaper rates for merchandise. This facilitated international trade and international organization. \n\nUnderwater telegraph cables linked the world's major trading nations by the 1860s.\n\nCargo sailing ships were slow; historians estimate that the average speed of all long-distance Mediterranean voyages to Palestine was only 2.8 knots. Passenger ships achieved greater speed by sacrificing cargo space. The sailing ship records were held by the clipper, a very fast sailing ship of the 1843-69 era. Clippers were narrow for their length, could carry limited bulk freight, small by later 19th century standards, and had a large total sail area. Their average speed was six knots and they carried passengers across the globe, primarily on the trade routes between Britain and its colonies in the east, in trans-Atlantic trade, and the New York-to-San Francisco route round Cape Horn during the California Gold Rush. The much faster steam-powered, iron-hulled ocean liner became the dominant mode of passenger transportation from the 1850s to the 1950s. It used coal—and needed many coaling stations. After 1900 oil became the favoured fuel and did not require frequent refueling.\n\nFreight rates on ocean traffic held steady in the 18th century down to about 1840, and then began a rapid downward plunge. The British dominated world exports and rates for British freight fell 70 percent, from 1840 to 1910. The Suez Canal cut the shipping time from London to India by a third when it opened in 1869. The same ship could make more voyages in a year, so it could charge less and carry more goods every year.\n\nTechnological innovation was steady. Iron hulls replaced wood by mid-century; after 1870, steel replaced iron. It took much longer for steam engines to replace sails. Note the sailing ship across from the \"Lusitania\" in the photograph above. Wind was free, and could move the ship at 2-3 knots, unless it was becalmed. Coal was expensive and required coaling stations along the route. A common solution was for a merchant ship to rely mostly on its sails, and only use the steam engine as a backup. The first steam engines were very inefficient, using a great deal of coal. For an ocean voyage in the 1860s, half of the cargo space was given over to coal. The problem was especially acute for warships, because their combat range using coal was strictly limited. Only the British Empire had a network of coaling stations that permitted a global scope for the Royal Navy. \nSteady improvement gave high-powered compound engines which were much more efficient. The boilers and pistons were built of steel, which could handle much higher pressures than iron. They were first used for high-priority cargo, such as mail and passengers. The arrival of the steam turbine engine around 1907 dramatically improved efficiency, and the increasing use of oil after 1910 meant far less cargo space had to be devoted to the fuel supply.\n\nBy the 1850s, railways and telegraph lines connected all the major cities inside Western Europe, as well as those inside the United States. Instead of greatly reducing the need for travel, the telegraph made travel easier to plan and replaced the slow long-distance mail service. Submarine cables were laid to link the continents by telegraph, which was a reality by the 1860s.\n\nBritain continued as the most important power, followed by Russia, France, Prussia and Austria. The United States was growing rapidly in size, population and economic strength, especially after its defeat of Mexico in 1848. Otherwise it avoided international entanglements as the slavery issue became more and more divisive. The Crimean War was the most important war, especially because it disrupted the stability of the system. Britain strengthened its colonial system especially in India, while France rebuilt its empire in Asia and North Africa. Russia continued its expansion south (toward Persia) and east (into Siberia). The Ottoman Empire steadily weakened, losing control in parts of the Balkans to the new states of Greece and Serbia.\n\nIn the Treaty of London, signed in 1839, the Great Powers guaranteed the neutrality of Belgium. Germany called it a \"scrap of paper\" and violated it in 1914 by invasion, whereupon Britain declared war on Germany.\n\nThe repeal in 1846 of the tariff on food imports, called the Corn Laws, marked a major turning point that made free trade the national policy of Great Britain into the 20th century. Repeal demonstrated the power of \"Manchester-school\" industrial interests over protectionist agricultural interests.\n\nFrom 1830 to 1865, with a few interruptions, Lord Palmerston set British foreign policy. His goal was to keep Britain dominant by maintaining the balance of power in Europe. He cooperated with France when necessary, but did not make permanent alliances with anyone. He tried to keep autocratic nations like Russia and Austria in check; he supported liberal regimes because they led to greater stability in the international system. However he also supported the autocratic Ottoman Empire because it blocked Russian expansion.\n\nCatholic Belgians in 1830 broke away from the United Kingdom of the Netherlands and established an independent Kingdom of Belgium. They could not accept the Dutch's king's favouritism toward Protestantism and his disdain for the French language. Outspoken liberals regarded King William I's rule as despotic. There were high levels of unemployment and industrial unrest among the working classes. There was small-scale fighting but it took years before the Netherlands finally recognized defeat. In 1839 the Dutch accepted Belgian independence by signing the Treaty of London. The major powers guaranteed Belgian independence.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire was only briefly involved in the Napoleonic Wars through the French campaign in Egypt and Syria, 1798–1801. It was not invited to the Vienna Conference. During this period the Empire steadily weakened militarily, and lost most of its holdings in Europe (starting with Greece) and later in North Africa. Its great enemy was Russia, while its chief supporter was Britain.\n\nAs the 19th century progressed the Ottoman Empire grew weaker and Britain increasingly became its chief ally and protector, even fighting the Crimean War in the 1850s to help it out against Russia. Three British leaders played major roles. Lord Palmerston in the 1830-65 era considered the Ottoman Empire an essential component in the balance of power, was the most favourable toward Constantinople. William Gladstone in the 1870s sought to build a Concert of Europe that would support the survival of the empire. In the 1880s and 1890s Lord Salisbury contemplated an orderly dismemberment of it, in such a way as to reduce rivalry between the greater powers.\n\nA successful uprising against the Ottomans marked the foundation of modern Serbia. The Serbian Revolution took place between 1804 and 1835, as this territory evolved from an Ottoman province into a constitutional monarchy and a modern Serbia. The first part of the period, from 1804 to 1815, was marked by a violent struggle for independence with two armed uprisings. The later period (1815–1835) witnessed a peaceful consolidation of political power of the increasingly autonomous Serbia, culminating in the recognition of the right to hereditary rule by Serbian princes in 1830 and 1833 and the territorial expansion of the young monarchy. The adoption of the first written Constitution in 1835 abolished feudalism and serfdom, and made the country suzerain\n\nThe Crimean War (1853–56) was fought between Russia on the one hand and an alliance of Great Britain, France, Sardinia, and the Ottoman Empire on the other. Russia was defeated.\n\nIn 1851 France under Napoleon III compelled the Sublime Porte (the Ottoman or Turkish government) to recognize it as the protector of Christian sites in the Holy Land. Russia denounced this claim, since it claimed to be the protector of all Eastern Orthodox Christians in the Ottoman Empire. France sent its fleet to the Black Sea; Russia responded with its own show of force. In 1851, Russia sent troops into the Ottoman provinces of Moldavia and Wallachia. Britain, now fearing for the security of the Ottoman Empire, sent a fleet to join with the French expecting the Russians would back down.\n\nDiplomatic efforts failed. The Sultan declared war against Russia in October 1851. Following an Ottoman naval disaster in November, Britain and France declared war against Russia. Most of the battles took place in the Crimean peninsula, which the Allies finally seized. London, shocked to discover that France was secretly negotiating with Russia to form a postwar alliance to dominate Europe, dropped its plans to attack St. Petersburg and instead signed a one-sided armistice with Russia that achieved almost none of its war aims. \nThe Treaty of Paris signed March 30, 1856, ended the war. It admitted the Ottoman Empire to the European concert, and the Powers promised to respect its independence and territorial integrity. Russia gave up a little land and relinquished its claim to a protectorate over the Christians in the Ottoman domains. The Black Sea was demilitarized, and an international commission was set up to guarantee freedom of commerce and navigation on the Danube River. Moldavia and Wallachia remained under nominal Ottoman rule, but would be granted independent constitutions and national assemblies.\n\nNew rules of wartime commerce were set out: (1) privateering was illegal; (2) a neutral flag covered enemy goods except contraband; (3) neutral goods, except contraband, were not liable to capture under an enemy flag; (4) a blockade, to be legal, had to be effective.\n\nThe war helped modernize warfare by introducing major new technologies such as railways, the telegraph, and modern nursing methods. In the long run the war marked a turning point in Russian domestic and foreign policy. Russian intellectuals used the defeat to demand fundamental reform of the government and social system. The war weakened both Russia and Austria, so they could no longer promote stability. This opened the way for Napoleon III, Cavour (in Italy) and Otto von Bismarck (in Germany) to launch a series of wars in the 1860s that reshaped Europe.\n\nIn a largely peaceful transition, the Ottoman provinces of Moldavia and Wallachia broke away slowly, achieved effective autonomy by 1859, and finally became officially an independent nation in 1878. The two provinces had long been under Ottoman control, but both Russia and Austria also wanted them, making the region a site of conflict in the 19th century. The population was largely Orthodox in religion and spoke Romanian, but there were many minorities, such as Jews and Greeks. The provinces were occupied by Russia after the Treaty of Adrianople in 1829. Russian and Turkish troops combined to suppress the Wallachian Revolution of 1848. During the Crimean War Austria took control. The population decided on unification on the basis of historical, cultural and ethnic connections. It took effect in 1859 after the double election of Alexandru Ioan Cuza as Ruling Prince of the United Principalities of Moldavia and Wallachia (renamed \"of Romania\" in 1862). \n\nWith Russian sponsorship, Romania officially became independent in 1878. It focused its attention on Transylvania, the historical region of Hungary with about 2 million Romanians. Finally when the Austro-Hungarian Empire collapsed at the end of the First World War, Romania obtained Transylvania.\n\nThe force of nationalism grew dramatically in the early and middle 19th century. To a large extent, and involved a cultural realization of cultural identity among the people sharing the same language and religious heritage. It was strong in the established countries, and was a powerful force for demanding more unity with or independence from Germans, Irish, Italians, Greeks, and the Slavic peoples of southeastern Europe. The strong sense of nationalism also grew in established independent nations, such as Britain and France.\n\nIn 1859, following another short-lived Conservative government, Prime Minister Lord Palmerston and Earl Russell made up their differences, and Russell consented to serve as Foreign Secretary in a new Palmerston cabinet. It was the first true Liberal Cabinet. This period was a particularly eventful one in the world outside Britain, seeing the Unification of Italy, the Diplomacy of the American Civil War, and the 1864 war over Schleswig-Holstein between Denmark and the German states. Russell and Palmerston kept Britain neutral in every case.\n\nDespite his promises in 1852 of a peaceful reign, Napoleon III could not resist the temptations of glory in foreign affairs. He was visionary, mysterious and secretive; he had a poor staff, and kept running afoul of his domestic supporters. In the end he was incompetent as a diplomat. After a brief threat of an invasion of Britain in 1851, France and Britain cooperated in the 1850s, with an alliance in the Crimean War, and a major trade treaty in 1860. However Britain viewed the Second Empire of Napoleon III with increasing distrust, especially as the emperor built up his navy, expanded his empire and took up a more active foreign policy.\n\nNapoleon III did score some successes: he strengthened French control over Algeria, established bases in Africa, began the takeover of Indochina, and opened trade with China. He facilitated a French company building the Suez Canal, which Britain could not stop. In Europe, however, Napoleon failed again and again. The Crimean war of 1854–1856 produced no gains. War with Austria in 1859 facilitated the unification of Italy, and Napoleon was rewarded with the annexation of Savoy and Nice. The British grew annoyed at his intervention in Syria in 1860–61. He angered Catholics alarmed at his poor treatment of the Pope, then reversed himself and angered the anticlerical liberals at home and his erstwhile Italian allies. He lowered the tariffs, which helped in the long run but in the short run angered owners of large estates and the textile and iron industrialists, while leading worried workers to organize. Matters grew worse in the 1860s as Napoleon nearly blundered into war with the United States in 1862, while his Mexican intervention in 1861–1867 was a total disaster. Finally in the end he went to war with Prussia in 1870 when it was too late to stop the unification of all Germans, aside from Austria, under the leadership of Prussia. Napoleon had alienated everyone; after failing to obtain an alliance with Austria and Italy, France had no allies and was bitterly divided at home. It was disastrously defeated on the battlefield, losing Alsace and Lorraine. A.J.P. Taylor is blunt: \"he ruined France as a great power.\"\n\nThe \"Risorgimento\" was the era from 1848 to 1871 that saw the achievement of independence of the Italians from Austrian Habsburgs in the north and the Spanish Bourbons in the south, securing national unification. Piedmont (known as the Kingdom of Sardinia) took the lead and imposed its constitutional system on the new nation of Italy\n\nThe papacy secured French backing to resist unification, fearing that giving up control of the Papal States would weaken the Church and allow the liberals to dominate conservative Catholics. The newly united Italy was recognized as the sixth great power.\n\nDuring the American Civil War (1861–1865), the Southern slave states attempted to secede from the Union and set up an independent country, the Confederate States of America. The North would not accept this affront of American nationalism, and fought to restore the Union. British and French aristocratic leaders personally disliked American republicanism and favoured the more aristocratic Confederacy. The South was also by far the chief source of cotton for European textile mills. The goal of the Confederacy was to obtain British and French intervention, that is, war against the Union. Confederates believed (with scant evidence) that \"cotton is king\"—that is, cotton was so essential to British and French industry that they would fight to get it. The Confederates did raise money in Europe, which they used to buy warships and munitions. However Britain had a large surplus of cotton in 1861; stringency did not come until 1862. Most important was the dependence on grain from the U.S. North for a large portion of the British food supply, France would not intervene alone, and in any case was less interested in cotton than in securing its control of Mexico. The Confederacy would allow that if it secured its independence, but the Union never would approve. Washington made it clear that any official recognition of the Confederacy meant war with the U.S.\n\nQueen Victoria's husband Prince Albert helped defuse a war scare in late 1861. The British people generally favored the United States. What little cotton was available came from New York City, as the blockade by the U.S. Navy shut down 95% of Southern exports to Britain. In September 1862, during the Confederate invasion of Maryland, Britain (along with France) contemplated stepping in and negotiating a peace settlement, which could only mean war with the United States. But in the same month, US president Abraham Lincoln announced the Emancipation Proclamation. Since support of the Confederacy now meant support for slavery, there was no longer any possibility of European intervention.\n\nMeanwhile, the British sold arms to both sides, built blockade runners for a lucrative trade with the Confederacy, and surreptitiously allowed warships to be built for the Confederacy. The warships caused a major diplomatic row that was resolved in the Alabama Claims in 1872, in the Americans' favor.\n\nPrussia, under the leadership of Otto von Bismarck, took the lead in uniting all of Germany (except for Austria), and created a new German Empire, headed by the king of Prussia. To do it, he engaged in a series of short, decisive wars with Denmark, Austria and France. The many smaller German states followed the lead of Prussia, until finally they united together after defeating France in 1871. Bismarck's Germany then became the most powerful and dynamic state in Europe, and Bismarck himself promoted decades of peace in Europe.\n\nA major diplomatic row, and several wars, emerged from the very complex situation in Schleswig and Holstein, where Danish and German claims collided, and Austria and France became entangled. The Danish and German duchies of Schleswig-Holstein were, by international agreement, ruled by the king of Denmark but were not legally part of Denmark. An international treaty provided that the two territories were not to be separated from each other, though Holstein was part of the German Confederation. In the late 1840s, with both German and Danish nationalism on the rise, Denmark attempted to incorporate Schleswig into its kingdom. The first war was a Danish victory. The Second Schleswig War of 1864 was a Danish defeat at the hands of Prussia and Austria.\n\nBerlin and Vienna split control of the two territories. That led to conflict between them, resolved by the Austro-Prussian War of 1866, which Prussia quickly won thus becoming the leader of the German-speaking peoples. Austria now dropped to the second rank among the Great Powers. Emperor Napoleon III of France could not tolerate the rapid rise of Prussia, and started the Franco-Prussian War of 1870–71 over perceived insults and other trivialities. The spirit of German nationalism caused the smaller German states (such as Bavaria and Saxony) to join the war alongside Prussia. The German coalition won an easy victory, dropping France to second class status among the Great Powers. Prussia, under Otto von Bismarck, then brought together almost all the German states (excluding Austria, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein) into a new German Empire. Bismarck's new empire became the most powerful state in continental Europe until 1914. Napoleon III was overconfident in his military strength and failed to stop the rush to war when he was unable to find allies who would support a war to stop German unification.\n\nAfter fifteen years of warfare in the Crimea, Germany and France, Europe began a period of peace in 1871. With the founding of the German Empire and the signing of the Treaty of Frankfurt (May 10, 1871), Otto von Bismarck emerged as a decisive figure in European history from 1871-1890. He retained control over Prussia and as well as the foreign and domestic policies of the new German Empire. Bismarck had built his reputation as a war-maker but changed overnight into a peacemaker. He skillfully used balance of power diplomacy to maintain Germany's position in a Europe which, despite many disputes and war scares, remained at peace. For historian Eric Hobsbawm, it was Bismarck who \"remained undisputed world champion at the game of multilateral diplomatic chess for almost twenty years after 1871, [and] devoted himself exclusively, and successfully, to maintaining peace between the powers\".\n\nBismarck's main mistake was giving in to the Army and to intense public demand in Germany for acquisition of the border provinces of Alsace and Lorraine, thereby turning France into a permanent, deeply-committed enemy (\"see\" French–German enmity). Theodore Zeldin says, \"Revenge and the recovery of Alsace-Lorraine became a principal object of French policy for the next forty years. That Germany was France's enemy became the basic fact of international relations.\" Bismarck's solution was to make France a pariah nation, encouraging royalty to ridicule its new republican status, and building complex alliances with the other major powers – Austria, Russia, and Britain – to keep France isolated diplomatically. A key element was the League of the Three Emperors, in which Bismarck brought together rulers in Berlin, Vienna and St. Petersburg to guarantee each other's security, while blocking out France; it lasted 1881-1887.\n\nBritain had entered an era of \"splendid isolation\", avoiding entanglements that had led it into the unhappy Crimean War in 1854-56. It concentrated on internal industrial development and political reform, and building up its great international holdings, the British Empire, while maintaining by far the world's strongest Navy to protect its island home and its many overseas possessions. It had come dangerously close to intervening in the American Civil War in 1861-62, and in May 1871 it signed the Treaty of Washington with the United States that put into arbitration the American claims that the lack of British neutrality had prolong the war; arbitrators eventually awarded the United States $15 million. Russia took advantage of the Franco-Prussian war to renounce the 1856 treaty in which it had been forced to demilitarize the Black Sea. Repudiation of treaties was unacceptable to the powers, so the solution was a conference in January 1871 at London that formally abrogated key elements of the 1856 treaty and endorsed the new Russian action. Russia had always wanted control of Constantinople and the straits the connected the Black Sea to the Mediterranean, and would nearly achieve that in the First World War. France had long stationed an army in Rome to protect the pope; it recalled the soldiers in 1870, and the Kingdom of Italy moved in, seized the remaining papal territories, and made Rome its capital city in 1871 ending the risorgimento. Italy was finally unified, but at the cost of alienating the pope and the Catholic community for a half century; the unstable situation was resolved in 1929 with the Lateran Treaties.\n\nA major trend was the move away from a professional army to a Prussian system that combined a core of professional careerists, a rotating base of conscripts, who after a year or two of active duty moved into a decade or more of reserve duty with a required summer training program every year. Training took place in peacetime, and in wartime a much larger, well-trained, fully staffed army could be mobilized very quickly. Prussia had started in 1814, and the Prussian triumphs of the 1860s made its model irresistible. The key element was universal conscription, with relatively few exemptions. The upper strata was drafted into the officer corps for one year's training, but was nevertheless required to do its full reserve duty along with everyone else. Austria adopted the system in 1868 (shortly after its defeat by Germany) and France In 1872 (shortly after its defeat by Germany). Japan followed in 1873, Russia in 1874, and Italy in 1875. All major countries adopted conscription by 1900, except for Great Britain and the United States. By then peacetime Germany had an army of 545,000, which could be expanded in a matter of days to 3.4 million by calling up the reserves. The comparable numbers in France were 1.8 million and 3.5 million; Austria, 1.1 million and 2.6 million; Russia, 1.7 million to 4 million. The new system was expensive, with a per capita cost of the forces doubling or even tripling between 1870 and 1914. By then total defense spending averaged about 5% of the national income. Nevertheless, taxpayers seemed satisfied; parents were especially impressed with the dramatic improvements shown in the immature boys they sent away at age 18, compared to the worldly-wise men who returned two years later.\n\nMost of the major powers (and some minor ones such as Belgium, the Netherlands and Denmark) engaged in imperialism, building up their overseas empires especially in Africa and Asia. Although there were numerous insurrections, historians count only a few wars, and they were small-scale: two Anglo-Boer Wars (1880–1881 and 1899–1902), the Sino-Japanese War (1894–1895), First Italo-Ethiopian War (1895–96), Spanish–American War (1898), and Italo-Ottoman war (1911). The largest was the Russo-Japanese War of 1905, the only in which two major powers fought each other.\n\nAmong the main empires form 1875-1914, historians assess a mixed record in terms of profitability. The assumption was that colonies would provide an excellent captive market for manufactured items. Apart from India, this was seldom true. By the 1890s, imperialists gained economic benefit primarily in the production of inexpensive raw materials to feed the domestic manufacturing sector. Overall, Great Britain profited well from India, but not from most of the rest of its empire. The Netherlands did very well in the East Indies. Germany and Italy got very little trade or raw materials from their empires. France did slightly better. The Belgian Congo was notoriously profitable when it was a capitalistic rubber plantation owned and operated by King Leopold II as a private enterprise. However, scandal after scandal regarding badly mistreated labour led the international community to force the government of Belgium to take it over in 1908, and it became much less profitable. The Philippines cost the United States much more than expected.\n\nThe world's colonial population at the time of the First World War totaled about 560 million people, of whom 70.0% were in British domains, 10.0% in French, 8.6% in Dutch, 3.9% in Japanese, 2.2% in German, 2.1% in American, 1.6% in Portuguese, 1.2% in Belgian and 1/2 of 1% in Italian possessions. The home domains of the colonial powers had a total population of about 370 million people.\n\nNapoleon III took advantage of the American Civil War to attempt to take control of Mexico and impose its own puppet Emperor Maximilian. France, Spain, and Britain, angry over unpaid Mexican debts, sent a joint expeditionary force that seized the Veracruz customs house in Mexico in December 1861. Spain and Britain soon withdrew after realizing that Napoleon III intended to overthrow the Mexican government under elected president Benito Juárez and establish a Second Mexican Empire. Napoleon had the support of the remnants of the Conservative elements that Juarez and his Liberals had defeated in the Reform War, a civil war from 1857–61. In the French intervention in Mexico in 1862. Napoleon installed Austrian archduke Maximilian of Habsburg as emperor of Mexico. Juárez rallied opposition to the French; Washington supported Juárez and refused to recognize the new government because it violated the Monroe Doctrine. After its victory over the Confederacy in 1865, the U.S. sent 50,000 experienced combat troops to the Mexican border to make clear its position. Napoleon was stretched very thin; he had committed 40,000 troops to Mexico, 20,000 to Rome to guard the Pope against the Italians, and another 80,000 in restive Algeria. Furthermore, Prussia, having just defeated Austria, was an imminent threat. Napoleon realized his predicament and withdrew all his forces from Mexico in 1866. Juarez regained control and executed the hapless emperor.\n\nThe Suez Canal, initially built by the French, became a joint British-French project in 1875, as both considered it vital to maintaining their influence and empires in Asia. In 1882, ongoing civil disturbances in Egypt prompted Britain to intervene, extending a hand to France. France's leading expansionist Jules Ferry was out of office, and the government allowed Britain to take effective control of Egypt.\n\nThe most decisive event emerged from the Anglo-Egyptian War, which resulted in the British occupation of Egypt for seven decades, even though the Ottoman Empire retained nominal ownership until 1914. France was seriously unhappy, having lost control of the canal that it built and financed and had dreamed of for decades. Germany, Austria, Russia, and Italy – and of course the Ottoman Empire itself-- were all angered by London's unilateral intervention. Historian A.J.P. Taylor says that this \"was a great event; indeed, the only real event in international relations between the Battle of Sedan and the defeat of Russia in the Russo-Japanese war.\" \nTaylor emphasizes the long-term impact:\n\nPrime Minister William Ewart Gladstone and his Liberal Party had a reputation for strong opposition to imperialism, so historians have long debated the explanation for this sudden reversal of policy. The most influential was study by John Robinson and Ronald Gallagher, \"Africa and the Victorians\" (1961), which focused on The Imperialism of Free Trade and was promoted by the Cambridge School of historiography. They argue there was no long-term Liberal plan in support of imperialism, but the urgent necessity to act to protect the Suez Canal was decisive in the face of what appeared to be a radical collapse of law and order, and a nationalist revolt focused on expelling the Europeans, regardless of the damage it would do to international trade and the British Empire. Gladstone’s decision came against strained relations with France, and maneuvering by \"men on the spot\" in Egypt. Critics such as Cain and Hopkins have stressed the need to protect large sums invested by British financiers and Egyptian bonds, while downplaying the risk to the viability of the Suez Canal. Unlike the Marxists, they stress \"gentlemanly\" financial and commercial interests, not the industrial, capitalism that Marxists believe was always central. More recently, specialists on Egypt have been interested primarily in the internal dynamics among Egyptians that produce the failed Urabi Revolt. \n\nThe \"Great Game\" was a political and diplomatic confrontation that existed for most of the nineteenth century between Britain and Russia over Afghanistan and neighbouring territories in Central and Southern Asia, especially Persia (Iran) and Turkestan. Britain made it a high priority to protect all the approaches to India, and the \"great game\" is primarily how the British did this in terms of a possible Russian threat. Russia itself had no plans involving India and repeatedly said so. This resulted in an atmosphere of distrust and the constant threat of war between the two empires. There were numerous local conflicts, but a war in central Asia between the two powers never happened.\n\nBismarck realized that both Russia and Britain considered control of central Asia a high priority, dubbed the \"Great Game\". Germany had no direct stakes, however its dominance of Europe was enhanced when Russian troops were based as far away from Germany as possible. Over two decades, 1871-1890, he maneuvered to help the British, hoping to force the Russians to commit more soldiers to Asia.\n\nThe \"scramble for Africa\" was launched by Britain's unexpected takeover of Egypt in 1882. In response, it became a free-for-all for the control of the rest of Africa, as Britain, France, Germany, Italy and Portugal all greatly expanded their colonial empires in Africa. The King of Belgium personally controlled the Congo. Bases along the coast become the nucleus of colonies that stretched inland. In the 20th century, the scramble for Africa was widely denounced by anti-imperialist spokesman. At the time, however, it was praised as a solution to the terrible violence and exploitation caused by Unrestrained adventurers, slave traders, and exploiters. Bismarck took the lead in trying to stabilize the situation by the Berlin Conference of 1884-85. All the European powers agreed on ground rules to avoid conflicts in Africa. \nIn British colonies, workers and businessmen from India were brought in to build railways, plantations and other enterprises. Britain immediately applied the administrative lessons that had been learned in India to Egypt and the other new African colonies.\n\nTensions between Britain and France reached tinder stage in Africa. At several points war was possible, but never happened. The most serious episode was the Fashoda Incident of 1898. French troops tried to claim an area in the Southern Sudan, and a British force purporting to be acting in the interests of the Khedive of Egypt arrived to confront them. Under heavy pressure the French withdrew securing Anglo-Egyptian control over the area. The status quo was recognised by an agreement between the two states acknowledging British control over Egypt, while France became the dominant power in Morocco, but France experienced a serious disappointment.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire lost its nominal control over Algeria, Tunisia and Libya. It retained only nominal control of Egypt. In 1875 Britain purchased the Suez canal shares from the almost bankrupt khedive of Egypt, Isma'il Pasha.\n\nThe experience of Kenya is representative of the colonization process in East Africa. By 1850 European explorers had begun mapping the interior. Three developments encouraged European interest in East Africa. First was the emergence of the island of Zanzibar, located off the east coast. It became a base from which trade and exploration of the African mainland could be mounted.\n\nBy 1840, to protect the interests of the various nationals doing business in Zanzibar, consul offices had been opened by the British, French, Germans and Americans. In 1859, the tonnage of foreign shipping calling at Zanzibar had reached 19,000 tons. By 1879, the tonnage of this shipping had reached 89,000 tons. The second development spurring European interest in Africa was the growing European demand for products of Africa including ivory and cloves. Thirdly, British interest in East Africa was first stimulated by their desire to abolish the slave trade. Later in the century, British interest in East Africa was stimulated by German competition, and in 1887 the Imperial British East Africa Company, a private concern, leased from Seyyid Said his mainland holdings, a 10-mile (16-km)-wide strip of land along the coast.\n\nGermany set up a protectorate over the Sultan of Zanzibar's coastal possessions in 1885. It traded its coastal holdings to Britain in 1890, in exchange for German control over the coast of Tanganyika.\n\nIn 1895 the British government claimed the interior as far west as Lake Naivasha; it set up the East Africa Protectorate. The border was extended to Uganda in 1902, and in 1920 most of the enlarged protectorate became a crown colony. With the beginning of colonial rule in 1895, the Rift Valley and the surrounding Highlands became the enclave of white immigrants engaged in large-scale coffee farming dependent on mostly Kikuyu labour. There were no significant mineral resources—none of the gold or diamonds that attracted so many to South Africa. In the initial stage of colonial rule, the administration relied on traditional communicators, usually chiefs. When colonial rule was established and efficiency was sought, partly because of settler pressure, newly educated younger men were associated with old chiefs in local Native Councils.\n\nFollowing severe financial difficulties of the British East Africa Company, the British government on 1 July 1895 established direct rule through the East African Protectorate, subsequently opening (1902) the fertile highlands to white settlers. A key to the development of Kenya's interior was the construction, started in 1895, of a railway from Mombasa to Kisumu, on Lake Victoria, completed in 1901. Some 32,000 workers were imported from British India to do the manual labour. Many stayed, as did most of the Indian traders and small businessmen who saw opportunity in the opening up of the interior of Kenya.\n\nPortugal, a small poor agrarian nation with a strong seafaring tradition, built up a large empire, and kept it longer than anyone else by avoiding wars and remaining largely under the protection of Britain. In 1899 it renewed its Treaty of Windsor with Britain originally written in 1386.\nEnergetic explorations in the sixteenth century led to a settler colony in Brazil. Portugal also established trading stations open to all nations off the coasts of Africa, South Asia, and East Asia. Portugal had imported slaves as domestic servants and farm workers in Portugal itself, and used its experience to make slave trading a major economic activity. Portuguese businessmen set up slave plantations on the nearby islands of Madeira, Cape Verde, and the Azores, focusing on sugar production. In 1770, the enlightened despot Pombal declared trade to be a noble and necessary profession, allowing businessmen to enter the Portuguese nobility. Many settlers moved to Brazil, which became independent in 1822.\n\nAfter 1815, the Portuguese expanded their trading ports along the African coast, moving inland to take control of Angola and Portuguese East Africa (Mozambique). The slave trade was abolished in 1836, in part because many foreign slave ships were flying the Portuguese flag. In India, trade flourished in the colony of Goa, with its subsidiary colonies of Macau, near Hong Kong on the China coast, and Timor, north of Australia. The Portuguese successfully introduced Catholicism and the Portuguese language into their colonies, while most settlers continued to head to Brazil.\n\nItaly was often called the Least of the Great Powers for its weak industry and weak military. In the Scramble for Africa of the 1880s, leaders of the new nation of Italy were enthusiastic about acquiring colonies in Africa, expecting it would legitimize their status as a power and help unify the people. In North Africa Italy first turned to Tunis, under nominal Ottoman control, where many Italian farmers had settled. Weak and diplomatically isolated, Italy was helpless and angered when France assumed a protectorate over Tunis in 1881. Turning to East Africa, Italy tried to conquer independent Ethiopia, but was massively defeated at the Battle of Adwa in 1896. Public opinion was angered at the national humiliation by an inept government. In 1911 the Italian people supported the seizure of what is now Libya.\n\nItalian diplomacy over a twenty-year period succeeded in getting permission to seize Libya, with approval coming from Germany, France, Austria, Britain and Russia. A centerpiece of the Italo-Turkish War of 1911–12 came when Italian forces took control of a few coastal cities against stiff resistance by Ottoman troops as well as the local tribesmen. After the peace treaty gave Italy control it sent in Italian settlers, but suffered extensive casualties in its brutal campaign against the tribes.\n\nStarting in the 1860s Japan rapidly modernized along Western lines, adding industry, bureaucracy, institutions and military capabilities that provided the base for imperial expansion into Korea, China, Taiwan and islands to the south. It saw itself vulnerable to aggressive Western imperialism unless it took control of neighboring areas. It took control of Okinawa and Formosa. Japan's desire to control Taiwan, Korea and Manchuria, led to the first Sino-Japanese War with China in 1894–1895 and the Russo-Japanese War with Russia in 1904–1905. The war with China made Japan the world's first Eastern, modern imperial power, and the war with Russia proved that a Western power could be defeated by an Eastern state. The aftermath of these two wars left Japan the dominant power in the Far East with a sphere of influence extending over southern Manchuria and Korea, which was formally annexed as part of the Japanese Empire in 1910.\n\nOkinawa island is the largest of the Ryukyu Islands, and paid tribute to China from the late 14th century. Japan took control of the entire Ryukyu island chain in 1609 and formally incorporated it into Japan in 1879.\n\nFriction between China and Japan arose from the 1870s from Japan's control over the Ryukyu Islands, rivalry for political influence in Korea and trade issues. Japan, having built up a stable political and economic system with a small but well-trained army and navy, easily defeated China in the First Sino-Japanese War of 1894. Japanese soldiers massacred the Chinese after capturing Port Arthur on the Liaotung Peninsula. In the harsh Treaty of Shimonoseki of April 1895, China recognize the independence of Korea, and ceded to Japan Formosa, the Pescatores Islands and the Liaotung Peninsula. China further paid an indemnity of 200 million silver taels, opened five new ports to international trade, and allowed Japan (and other Western powers) to set up and operate factories in these cities. However, Russia, France, and Germany saw themselves disadvantaged by the treaty and in the Triple Intervention forced Japan to return the Liaotung Peninsula in return for a larger indemnity. The only positive result for China came when those factories led the industrialization of urban China, spinning off a local class of entrepreneurs and skilled mechanics.\n\nThe island of Formosa (Taiwan) had an indigenous population when Dutch traders in need of an Asian base to trade with Japan and China arrived in 1623. The Dutch East India Company (VOC) built Fort Zeelandia. They soon began to rule the natives. China took control in the 1660s, and sent in settlers. By the 1890s there were about 2.3 million Han Chinese and 200,000 members of indigenous tribes. After its victory in the First Sino-Japanese War in 1894–95, the peace treaty ceded the island to Japan. It was Japan's first colony.\n\nJapan expected far more benefits from the occupation of Taiwan than the limited benefits it actually received. Japan realized that its home islands could only support a limited resource base, and it hoped that Taiwan, with its fertile farmlands, would make up the shortage. By 1905, Taiwan was producing rice and sugar and paying for itself with a small surplus. Perhaps more important, Japan gained Asia-wide prestige by being the first non-European country to operate a modern colony. It learned how to adjust its German-based bureaucratic standards to actual conditions, and how to deal with frequent insurrections. The ultimate goal was to promote Japanese language and culture, but the administrators realized they first had to adjust to the Chinese culture of the people. Japan had a civilizing mission, and it opened schools so that the peasants could become productive and patriotic manual workers. Medical facilities were modernized, and the death rate plunged. To maintain order, Japan installed a police state that closely monitored everyone. In 1945, Japan was stripped of its empire and Taiwan was returned to China.\n\nJapan felt humiliated when the spoils from its decisive victory over China were partly reversed by the Western Powers (including Russia), which revised the Treaty of Shimonoseki. The Boxer Rebellion of 1899–1901 saw Japan and Russia as allies who fought together against the Chinese, with Russians playing the leading role on the battlefield. In the 1890s Japan was angered at Russian encroachment on its plans to create a sphere of influence in Korea and Manchuria. Japan offered to recognize Russian dominance in Manchuria in exchange for recognition of Korea as being within the Japanese sphere of influence. Russia refused and demanded Korea north of the 39th parallel to be a neutral buffer zone between Russia and Japan. The Japanese government decided on war to stop the perceived Russian threat to its plans for expansion into Asia. The Japanese Navy opened hostilities by a surprise attacks on the Russian Eastern Fleet at Port Arthur, China. Russia suffered multiple defeats but Tsar Nicholas II fought on with the expectation that Russia would win decisive naval battles. When that proved illusory he fought to preserve the dignity of Russia by averting a \"humiliating peace\". The complete victory of the Japanese military surprised world observers. The consequences transformed the balance of power in East Asia, resulting in a reassessment of Japan's recent entry onto the world stage. It was the first major military victory in the modern era of an Asian power over a European one. \nIn 1905, the Empire of Japan and the Korean Empire signed the Eulsa Treaty, which brought Korea into the Japanese sphere of influence as a protectorate. The Treaty was a result of the Japanese victory in the Russo-Japanese War and Japan wanting to increase its hold over the Korean Peninsula. The Eulsa Treaty led to the signing of the 1907 Treaty two years later. The 1907 Treaty ensured that Korea would act under the guidance of a Japanese resident general and Korean internal affairs would be under Japanese control. Korean Emperor Gojong was forced to abdicate in favour of his son, Sunjong, as he protested Japanese actions in the Hague Conference. Finally in 1910, the Annexation Treaty formally annexed Korea to Japan.\n\nOfficially, China remained a unified country. In practice, European powers and Japan took effective control of certain port cities and their surrounding areas from the middle nineteenth century until the 1920s. Technically speaking, they exercised \"extraterritoriality\" that was imposed in a series of unequal treaties.\n\nIn 1899-1900 the United States won international acceptance for the Open Door Policy whereby all nations would have access to Chinese ports, rather than having them reserved to just one nation.\n\nBritain, in addition to taking control of new territories, developed an enormous power in economic and financial affairs in numerous independent countries, especially in Latin America and Asia. It lent money, built railways, and engaged in trade. The Great London Exhibition of 1851 clearly demonstrated Britain's dominance in engineering, communications and industry; that lasted until the rise of the United States and Germany in the 1890s.\n\nHistorians agree that Lord Salisbury as foreign minister and prime minister 1885-1902 was a strong and effective leader in foreign affairs. He had a superb grasp of the issues, and proved:\nIn 1886–1902 under Salisbury, Britain continued its policy of Splendid isolation with no formal allies. Lord Salisbury grew restless with the term in the 1890s, as his \"third and final government found the policy of 'splendid isolation' increasingly less splendid,\" especially as France broke from its own isolation and formed an alliance with Russia.\n\nBritain and Germany each tried to improve relations, but British distrust of the Kaiser for his recklessness ran deep. The Kaiser did indeed meddle in Africa in support of the Boers, which soured relations. \n\nThe main accomplishment was a friendly 1890 treaty. Germany gave up its small Zanzibar colony in Africa and acquired the Heligoland islands, off Hamburg, which were essential to the security of Germany's ports. Overtures toward friendship otherwise went nowhere, and a great Anglo-German naval arms race worsened tensions, 1880s-1910s.\n\nLiberal Party policy after 1880 was shaped by William Gladstone as he repeatedly attacked Disraeli's imperialism. The Conservatives took pride in their imperialism and it proved quite popular with the voters. A generation later, a minority faction of Liberals became active \"Liberal Imperialists\". The Second Boer War (1899 – 1902) was fought by Britain against and the two independent Boer republics of the Orange Free State and the South African Republic (called the Transvaal by the British). After a protracted hard-fought war, with severe hardships for Boer civilians, the Boers lost and were absorbed into the British Empire. The war bitterly divided with Liberals, with the majority faction denouncing it. Joseph Chamberlain and his followers broke with the Liberal Party and formed an alliance with the Conservatives to promote imperialism.\n\nThe \"Eastern Question\" involved the slow steady disintegration of the \"Sick man of Europe\" (the Ottoman Empire, often called \"Turkey\"), the rise of nationalism in the Balkans, and the general issue of alliances in Eastern Europe. In the 1870s the \"Eastern Question\" focused on the mistreatment of Christians in the Balkans by the Ottoman Empire, and what the European great powers ought to do about it.\n\nEach of the countries paid close attention to its own long-term interests, usually in cooperation with its allies and friends.\nThe Ottoman Empire was hard-pressed by nationalistic movements among the Christian populations. After 1900, the large Arab population would also grow nationalistic. The threat of disintegration was real. Egypt for example although still nominally part of the Ottoman Empire, have been independent for century. Turkish nationalists were emerging, and the Young Turk movement indeed took over the Empire. While the previous rulers had been pluralistic, the Young Turks were hostile to all other nationalities and to non-Muslims. Wars were usually defeats, in which another slice of territory was sliced off and became semi-independent, including Greece, Serbia, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Romania, Bosnia, and Albania.\n\nThe Austro-Hungarian Empire, headquartered at Vienna, was a largely rural, poor, multicultural state. It was operated by and for the Habsburg family, who demanded loyalty to the throne, but not to the nation. Nationalistic movements were growing rapidly. The most powerful were the Hungarians, who preserved their separate status within the Habsburg Monarchy and with the Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867, the creation of the Dual Monarchy they were getting practical equality. Other minorities, were highly frustrated, although some – especially the Jews – felt protected by the Empire. German nationalists, especially in the Sudetenland (part of Bohemia) however, looked to Berlin in the new German Empire. There was a small German-speaking Austrian element located around Vienna, but it did not display much sense of Austrian nationalism. That is it did not demand an independent state, rather it flourished by holding most of the high military and diplomatic offices in the Empire. Russia was the main enemy, As well as Slavic and nationalist groups inside the Empire (especially in Bosnia-Herzegovina) and in nearby Serbia. Although Austria, Germany, and Italy had a defensive military alliance – the Triple Alliance – Italy was dissatisfied and wanted a slice of territory controlled by Vienna. \n\nGyula Andrássy after serving as Hungarian prime minister became Foreign Minister of Austria-Hungary (1871–1879). Andrássy was a conservative; his foreign policies looked to expanding the Empire into Southeast Europe, preferably with British and German support, and without alienating Turkey. He saw Russia as the main adversary, because of its own expansionist policies toward Slavic and Orthodox areas. He distrusted Slavic nationalist movements as a threat to his multi-ethnic empire. As tensions escalated in the early 20th century Austria Foreign-policy was set in 1906-1912 by its powerful foreign minister Count Aehrenthal. He was thoroughly convinced that the Slavic minorities could never come together, and the Balkan League would never accomplish any damage to Austria. 1912 he rejected an Ottoman proposal for an alliance that would include Austria, Turkey and Romania. His policies alienated the Bulgarians, who turned instead to Russia and Serbia. Although Austria had no intention to embark on additional expansion to the south, Aehrenthal encouraged speculation to that effect, expecting it would paralyze the Balkan states. Instead, it incited them to feverish activity to create a defensive block to stop Austria. A series of grave miscalculations at the highest level thus significantly strengthened Austria's enemies.\n\nRussia was growing in strength, and wanted access to the warm waters of the Mediterranean. To get that it needed control of the Straits, connecting the Black Sea and the Mediterranean, and if possible, control of Constantinople, the capital of the Ottoman Empire. Slavic nationalism was strongly on the rise in the Balkans. It gave Russia the opportunity to protect Slavic and Orthodox Christians. This put it in sharp opposition to the Austro-Hungarian Empire.\n\nSerbia had multiple national goals. Serbian intellectuals dreamed of a South Slavic state--which in the 1920s became Yugoslavia. The large number of Serbs living in Bosnia looked to Serbia as the focus of their nationalism, but they were ruled by the Germans of the Austrian Empire. Austria's annexation of Bosnia in 1908 deeply alienated the Serbian peoples. Plotters swore revenge, which they achieved in 1914 by assassination of the Austrian heir. Serbia was landlocked, and strongly felt the need for access to the Mediterranean, preferably through the Adriatic Sea. Austria worked hard to block Serbian access to the sea, for example by helping with the creation of Albania in 1912. Montenegro, Serbia's only real ally, did have a small port, but Austrian territory intervened, blocking access until Serbia conquered Novi Pazar and part of Macedonia from Turkey in 1913. To the south, Bulgaria blocked Serbian access to the Aegean Sea. Serbia, Greece, Montenegro and Bulgaria formed the Balkan League and went to war with the Ottomans in 1912-13. They won decisively and expelled that Empire from almost all of the Balkans. The main remaining foe was Austria, which strongly rejected Pan-Slavism and Serbian nationalism and was ready to make war to end those threats. Ethnic nationalism would doom the multicultural Austro-Hungarian Empire. Expansion of Serbia would block Austrian and German aspirations for direct rail connections to Constantinople and the Middle East. Serbia relied primarily on Russia for Great Power support but Russia was very hesitant at first to support Pan-Slavism, and counselled caution. However, in 1914 it reversed positions and promised military support to Serbia.\n\nGermany had no direct involvement in the Balkans, but indirectly Bismarck realized that it was a major source of tension between his two key allies, Russia and Austria. Therefore Germany's policy was to minimize conflict in the Balkans.\n\nIn 1876 Serbia and Montenegro declared war on Turkey, and were badly defeated, notably at the battle of Alexinatz (Sept. 1, 1876). Gladstone published an angry pamphlet on \"The Bulgarian Horrors and the Question of the East,\" which aroused enormous agitation in Britain against Turkish misrule, and complicated the Disraeli government's policy of supporting Turkey against Russia. Russia, which supported Serbia, threatened war against Turkey. In August 1877, Russia declared war on Turkey, and steadily defeated its armies. In early January 1878 Turkey asked for an armistice; the British fleet arrived at Constantinople too late. Russia and Turkey on March 3 signed the Treaty of San Stefano, which was highly advantageous to Russia, Serbia, and Montenegro, as well as Romania and Bulgaria.\n\nBritain, France, and Austria opposed the Treaty of San Stefano because it gave Russia and Bulgaria too much influence in the Balkans, where insurrections were frequent. War threatened. After numerous attempts a grand diplomatic settlement was reached at the Congress of Berlin (June–July 1878). The new Treaty of Berlin revised the earlier treaty. Germany's Otto von Bismarck (1815–98) presided over the congress and brokered the compromises. Keeping ethnic groups together was not a priority when boundaries were drawn, thus creating new grievances between ethnic groups.One result was that Austria took control of the provinces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, intending to eventually merge them into the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Bosnia was eventually annexed by Austria-Hungary in 1908. to the anger of Serbs. Bosnian Serbs assassinated Austria's heir to the crown, Franz Ferdinand, in 1914 and the result was the First World War.\n\nThe 1878 Treaty of Berlin had a new type of provision that protected minorities in the Balkans and newly independent states Great Power recognition was nominally conditional on the promise of guarantees of religious and civic freedoms for local religious minorities. Historian Carol Fink argues:\nFink reports that these provisions were generally not enforced—no suitable mechanism existed and the Great Powers had little interest in doing so. Protections were part of the Treaty of Versailles in 1919 and became increasingly important after World War II.\n\nBritain stayed aloof from alliances in the late 19th century, with an independence made possible by its island location, its dominant navy, its dominant position in finance and trade, and its strong industrial base. It rejected tariffs and practiced free trade. After losing power in Britain in 1874, Liberal leader Gladstone returned to center stage in 1876 by calling for a moralistic foreign policy, as opposed to the realism of his great adversary Benjamin Disraeli. The issue drew the party line between Gladstone's Liberals (who denounced the immoral Ottomans) and Disraeli's Conservatives (who downplayed the atrocities and supported the Ottoman Empire as an offset to Russian power). Disraeli had threatened war with Russia on the issue and Gladstone argued he was wrong. Liberal opinion was convulsed by atrocities in the Balkans, in particular the massacre of more than 10,000 Christian Bulgars by Turkish irregulars. Gladstone denounced the Turks for committing \"abominable and bestial lusts ... at which Hell itself might almost blush\" and demanded they withdraw from European soil \"bag and baggage\". His pamphlet sold an astonishing 200,000 copies.\n\nThe climax was his \"Midlothian campaign\" of 1880 when he charged Disraeli's government with financial incompetence, neglecting domestic legislation, and mismanagement of foreign affairs. Gladstone felt a call from God to aid the Serbians and Bulgarians (who were Eastern Orthodox Christians); he spoke out like an ancient Hebrew prophet denouncing tyranny and oppression. The real audience was not the local electorate but Britain as a whole, especially the evangelical elements. By appealing to vast audiences denouncing Disraeli's pro-Turkish foreign policy, Gladstone made himself a moral force in Europe, unified his party, and was carried back to power.\n\nChancellor Bismarck took full charge of German foreign policy from 1870 to his dismissal in 1890. His goal was a peaceful Europe, based on the balance of power, with Germany playing a central role; his policy was a success. Germany had the strongest economy on the Continent and the strongest military. Bismarck made clear to all that Germany had no wish to add any territory in Europe, and he tried to oppose German colonial expansion. Bismarck feared that a hostile combination of Austria, France and Russia could overwhelm Germany. If two of them were allied, then the third would ally with Germany only if Germany conceded excessive demands. The solution was to ally with two of the three. In 1873 he formed the League of the Three Emperors, an alliance of the kaiser of Germany, the tsar of Russia, and the emperor of Austria-Hungary. It protected Germany against a war with France. The three emperors together could control Eastern Europe, making sure that restive ethnic groups such as the Poles were kept in control. The Balkans posed a more serious issue, and Bismarck's solution was to give Austria predominance in the western areas, and Russia in the eastern areas. The system collapsed in 1887. Kaiser Wilhelm ousted Bismarck in 1890 and developed his own aggressive foreign policy. The Kaiser rejected the Russian alliance, and Russia in turn turned to an alliance with France.\n\nBetween 1873 and 1877, Germany repeatedly intervened in the internal affairs of France's neighbors. In Belgium, Spain, and Italy, Bismarck exerted strong and sustained political pressure to support the election or appointment of liberal, anticlerical governments. This was part of an integrated strategy to promote republicanism in France by strategically and ideologically isolating the clerical-monarchist regime of President Patrice de Mac-Mahon. It was hoped that by ringing France with a number of liberal states, French republicans could defeat MacMahon and his reactionary supporters. The modern concept of containment provides a useful model for understanding the dynamics of this policy.\n\nContainment almost got out of hand in 1875 in the \"War in Sight\" crisis. It was sparked by an editorial entitled \"Krieg-in-Sicht\" in an influential Berlin newspaper the \"Post\". It indicated some highly influential Germans, alarmed by France's rapid recovery from defeat in 1871 and its rearmament program, talked of launching a preventive war against France to hold it down. There was a war scare in Germany and France, and Britain and Russia made it clear they would not tolerate a preventive war. Bismarck did not want any war either, but the unexpected crisis forced him to take into account the fear and alarm that his bullying and Germany's fast-growing power was causing among its neighbors. The crisis reinforced Bismarck's determination that Germany had to work in proactive fashion to preserve the peace in Europe, rather than passively let events take their own course and react to them.>\n\nThe central development in Russian foreign policy was to move away from Germany and toward France. This became possible in 1890, when Bismarck was dismissed from office, and Germany refused to renew the secret 1887 Reinsurance Treaty with Russia. That encouraged Russian expansion into Bulgaria and the Straits. It meant that both France and Russia were without major allies; France took the initiative and funding Russian economic development, and in exploring a military alliance. Russia had never been friendly with France, and remembered the wars in the Crimea and the Napoleonic invasion; it saw republican France as a dangerous font of subversion to Russia's style of absolute monarchy. France, which had been shut out of the entire alliance system by Bismarck, decided to improve relations with Russia. It lent money to the Russians, expanded trade, and began selling warships after 1890. Meanwhile, after Bismarck lost office in 1890, there was no renewal of the Reinsurance treaty between Russia and Germany. The German bankers stopped lending to Russia, which increasingly depended on Paris banks.\n\nIn 1894 a secret treaty stipulated that Russia would come to the aid of France if France was attacked by Germany. Another stipulation was that in a war against Germany, France would immediately mobilize 1.3 million men, while Russia would mobilize 700,000 to 800,000. It provided that if any of the Triple Alliance (Germany, Austria, Italy) mobilized its reserves in preparation for war, then both Russia and France would mobilize theirs. \"The mobilization is the declaration of war,\" the French chief of staff told Tsar Alexander III in 1892. \"To mobilize is to oblige one's neighbor to do the same.\" This set up the tripwire for July 1914.\n\nGeorge F. Kennan argues that Russia was primarily responsible for the collapse of Bismarck's alliance policy in Europe, and starting the downward slope to the First World War. Kennan blames poor Russian diplomacy centered on its ambitions in the Balkans. Kennan says Bismarck's foreign policy was designed to prevent any major war even in the face of improved Franco-Russian relations. Russia left Bismarck's Three Emperors' League (with Germany and Austria) and instead took up the French proposal for closer relationships and a military alliance.\n\nThe Bosnian crisis of 1908–09 began on 8 October 1908, when Vienna announced the annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These territories were nominally owned by the Ottoman Empire but had been awarded in custody to Austria-Hungary in the Congress of Berlin in 1878. The provinces were chiefly by Serbs, and the territory blocked Serbia's access to the sea, which was a secret but powerful goal for Austria. \nThis unilateral action—timed to coincide with Bulgaria's declaration of independence (5 October) from the Ottoman Empire—sparked protestations from all the Great Powers and especially Serbia and Montenegro. In April 1909 the Treaty of Berlin was amended to reflect the fait accompli and bring the crisis to an end. The crisis permanently damaged relations between Austria-Hungary on one hand and Serbia, Italy and Russia on the other. At the time it appeared to be a total diplomatic victory for Vienna, but Russia became determined not to back down again and hastened its military build-up. Austrian–Serbian relations became permanently stressed. It aroused intense anger among Serbian nationalists that led to the assassination of Franz Ferdinand in 1914. \n\nThe continuing collapse of the Ottoman Empire led to two wars in the Balkans, in 1912 and 1913, which were a prelude to World War I. By 1900 nation states had formed in Bulgaria, Greece, Montenegro and Serbia. Nevertheless, many of their ethnic compatriots lived under the control of the Ottoman Empire. In 1912, these countries formed the Balkan League. There were three main causes of the First Balkan War. The Ottoman Empire was unable to reform itself, govern satisfactorily, or deal with the rising ethnic nationalism of its diverse peoples. Secondly, the Great Powers quarreled among themselves and failed to ensure that the Ottomans would carry out the needed reforms. This led the Balkan states to impose their own solution. Most important, the members of the Balkan League were confident that it could defeat the Turks. Their prediction was accurate, as Constantinople called for terms after six weeks of fighting.\n\nThe First Balkan War broke out when the League attacked the Ottoman Empire on 8 October 1912 and ended seven months later with the Treaty of London. After five centuries, the Ottoman Empire lost virtually all of its possessions in the Balkans. The Treaty had been imposed by the Great Powers, and the victorious Balkan states were dissatisfied with it. Bulgaria was dissatisfied over the division of the spoils in Macedonia, made in secret by its former allies, Serbia and Greece. Bulgaria attacked to force them out of Macedonia, beginning the Second Balkan War. The Serbian and Greek armies repulsed the Bulgarian offensive and counter-attacked into Bulgaria, while Romania and the Ottoman Empire also attacked Bulgaria and gained (or regained) territory. In the resulting Treaty of Bucharest, Bulgaria lost most of the territories it had gained in the First Balkan War.\n\nThe long-term result was heightened tension in the Balkans. Relations between Austria and Serbia became increasingly bitter. Russia felt humiliated after Austria and Germany prevented it from helping Serbia. Bulgaria and Turkey were also dissatisfied, and eventually joined Austria and Germany in the First World War.\n\nThe main causes of World War I, which broke out unexpectedly in central Europe in summer 1914, included many factors, such as the conflicts and hostility of the four decades leading up to the war. Militarism, alliances, imperialism, and ethnic nationalism played major roles. However the immediate origins of the war lay in the decisions taken by statesmen and generals during the Crisis of 1914, which was sparked by the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand (the Archduke of Austria Hungary) by a Serbian secret organization, the Black Hand.\n\nBy the 1870s or 1880s all the major powers were preparing for a large-scale war, although none expected one. Britain focused on building up its Royal Navy, already stronger than the next two navies combined. Germany, France, Austria, Italy and Russia, and some smaller countries, set up conscription systems whereby young men would serve from 1 to 3 years in the army, then spend the next 20 years or so in the reserves with annual summer training. Men from higher social statuses became officers.\n\nEach country devised a mobilisation system whereby the reserves could be called up quickly and sent to key points by rail. Every year the plans were updated and expanded in terms of complexity. Each country stockpiled arms and supplies for an army that ran into the millions.\n\nGermany in 1874 had a regular professional army of 420,000 with an additional 1.3 million reserves. By 1897 the regular army was 545,000 strong and the reserves 3.4 million. The French in 1897 had 3.4 million reservists, Austria 2.6 million, and Russia 4.0 million. The various national war plans had been perfected by 1914, albeit with Russia and Austria trailing in effectiveness. All plans called for a decisive opening and a short war.\n\nFor a few years after its defeat in 1871 France displayed a bitter Revanchism: a deep sense of bitterness, hatred and demand for revenge against Germany, especially because of the loss of Alsace and Lorraine. Paintings that emphasized the humiliation of the defeat came in high demand, such as those by Alphonse de Neuville.\n\nFrench policy makers were not fixated on revenge. However strong public opinion regarding Alsace-Lorraine meant that friendship with Germany was impossible unless the provinces were returned, and public opinion in Germany would not allow a return to happen. So Germany worked to isolate France and France sought allies against Germany, especially Russia and Britain. Apart perhaps from the German threat, most French citizens ignored foreign affairs and colonial issues. In 1914 the chief pressure group was the \"Parti colonial\", a coalition of 50 organizations with a combined total of 5000 members.\n\nFrance had colonies in Asia and looked for alliances and found in Japan a possible ally. At Japan's request Paris sent military missions in 1872–1880, in 1884–1889 and in 1918–1919 to help modernize the Japanese army. Conflicts with China over Indochina climaxed during the Sino-French War (1884–1885). Admiral Courbet destroyed the Chinese fleet anchored at Foochow. The treaty ending the war, put France in a protectorate over northern and central Vietnam, which it divided into Tonkin and Annam.\n\nBismarck's foreign policies had successfully isolated France from the other great powers. After Bismarck was fired, Kaiser Wilhelm took erratic positions that baffled diplomats. No one could quite figure out his goals. Germany ended its secret treaties with Russia, and rejected close ties with Britain. France saw its opportunity, as Russia was looking for a new partner and French financiers invested heavily in Russian economic development. In 1893 Paris and St. Petersburg signed an alliance. France was no longer isolated – but Germany was increasingly isolated and distrusted, with only Austria as a serious ally. The Triple Alliance included Germany, Austria, and Italy, but Italy had serious disputes with Austria, and switched sides when the world war erupted. Britain was also moving toward alliances, having abandoned its policy of splendid isolation. By 1903, France settled its disputes with Britain. After Russia and Britain settled their disputes over Persia in 1907, the way was open for the Triple Entente of France, Britain, and Russia. It formed the basis of the Allies of the First World War.\n\nFrance was deeply split between the monarchists on one side, and the Republicans on the other. The Republicans at first seemed highly unlikely to welcome any military alliance with Russia. That large nation was poor and not industrialized; it was intensely religious and authoritarian, with no sense of democracy or freedom for its peoples. It oppressed Poland, and exiled, and even executed political liberals and radicals. At a time when French Republicans were rallying in the Dreyfus affair against anti-Semitism, Russia was the most notorious center in the world of anti-Semitic outrages, including multiple murderous large-scale pogroms against the Jews. On the other hand, France was increasingly frustrated by Bismarck's success in isolating it diplomatically. France had issues with Italy, which was allied with Germany and Austria-Hungary in the Triple Alliance. Paris made a few overtures to Berlin, but they were rebuffed, and after 1900 there was a threat of war between France and Germany over Germany's attempt to deny French expansion into Morocco. Great Britain was still in its “splendid isolation” mode and after a major agreement in 1890 with Germany, it seemed especially favorable toward Berlin. Colonial conflicts in Africa brought Britain and France to a major crisis The Fashoda crisis of 1898 brought Britain and France almost to the brink of war and ended with a humiliation of France that left it hostile to Britain. By 1892 Russia was the only opportunity for France to break out of its diplomatic isolation. Russia had been allied with Germany the new Kaiser Wilhelm removed Bismarck in 1890 and in 1892 ended the “Reinsurance treaty” with Russia. Russia was now alone diplomatically and like France, it needed a military alliance to contain the threat of Germany’s strong army and military aggressiveness. The pope, angered by German anti-Catholicism, worked diplomatically to bring Paris and St. Petersburg together. Russia desperately needed money for our infrastructure of railways and ports facilities. The German government refused to allow its banks to lend money to Russia, but French banks eagerly did so. For example, it funded the essential trans-Siberian railway. Negotiations were increasingly successful, and by 1895. France and Russia had signed the Franco-Russian Alliance, a strong military alliance to join together in war if Germany attacked either of them. France had finally escaped its diplomatic isolation.\n\nIn its continuing effort to isolate Germany, France went to great pains to woo Great Britain, notably in the 1904 Entente Cordiale with Great Britain, and finally the Anglo-Russian Entente in 1907 which became the Triple Entente.Paris and London had a high level military discussions about coordination in a joint war against Germany. By 1914, Russia and France worked together and Britain was hostile enough toward Germany to join them as soon as Germany invaded Belgium.\n\nIn the 1880s relations between Britain and Germany improved as the key policy-makers, Prime Minister Lord Salisbury and Chancellor Bismarck were both realistic conservatives and largely in agreement on policies. There were several proposals for a formal treaty relationship between Germany and Britain, but they went nowhere; Britain preferred to stand in what it called \"splendid isolation\". Nevertheless, a series of developments steadily improved their relations down to 1890, when Bismarck was fired by the aggressive new Kaiser Wilhelm II. In January 1896 he escalated tensions with his Kruger telegram congratulating Boer President Kruger of the Transvaal for beating off the Jameson raid. German officials in Berlin had managed to stop the Kaiser from proposing a German protectorate over the Transvaal. In the Second Boer War, Germany sympathised with the Boers. In 1897 Admiral Alfred von Tirpitz became German Naval Secretary of State and began the transformation of German Navy from small, coastal defence force to a fleet meant to challenge British naval power. Tirpitz calls for \"Riskflotte\" (Risk Fleet) that would make it too risky for Britain to take on Germany as part of wider bid to alter the international balance of power decisively in Germany's favour. At the same time German foreign minister Bernhard von Bülow called for \"Weltpolitik\" (World politics). It was the new policy of Germany to assert its claim to be a global power. Bismarck's conservativism was abandoned as Germany was intent on challenging and upsetting international order. Thereafter relations deteriorated steadily. London began to see Berlin as a hostile force and moved to friendlier relationships with France.\n\nMorocco on the northwest coast of Africa, was the last major territory in Africa not controlled by colonial power. France sent in financiers advisors and military consultants, had stirred up trouble locally, and now was prepared to move in to ensure domestic tranquility and, eventually, to add Morocco to the French Empire. Germany did not want Morocco itself, but felt embarrassed that France was making gains while Germany was not. On 31 March 1905, Germany's Kaiser Wilhelm II visited Morocco's capital, Tangier, and delivered a sabre-rattling speech demanding an international conference to ensure Morocco's independence, with war the alternative. Germany's goal in the First Moroccan Crisis was to enhance its prestige and diminish the \"Entente Cordiale\" linking Britain and France. Historian Heather Jones argues that Germany's use of warlike rhetoric was a deliberate diplomatic ploy:\nGermany's plan backfired when Britain made it clear that in the event of a German attack on France, Britain would intervene on France's side. In 1906 the Algeciras Conference ended the crisis with a stinging diplomatic defeat for Germany as France gained the dominant role in Morocco. The experience brought London and Paris much closer and set up the presumption they would be allies if Germany attacked either one. The German adventure resulted in failure as Germany was left more isolated and alienated. A momentous consequence was the heightened sense of frustration and readiness for war in Germany. It spread beyond the political elite to much of the press and most of the political parties except for the Liberals and Social Democrats on the left. The Pan-German element grew in strength and denounced their government's retreat as treason, stepping up chauvinistic support for war.\n\nIn the Agadir Crisis of 1911 France strong-armed itself into seizing more control over Morocco. The German Foreign Minister Alfred von Kiderlen-Waechter was not opposed to these moves, but he felt Germany was entitled to some compensation elsewhere in Africa. He sent a small warship, made saber-rattling threats, and whipped up anger among German nationalists. France and Germany soon agreed on a compromise. However, the British cabinet was alarmed at Germany's aggressiveness toward France. David Lloyd George made a dramatic \"Mansion House\" speech that denounced the German move as an intolerable humiliation. There was talk of war, and Germany backed down. Relations between Berlin and London remained sour.\n\nAfter 1805 the dominance of Britain's Royal Navy was unchallenged; in the 1890s Germany decided to match it. Grand Admiral Alfred von Tirpitz (1849 – 1930) dominated German naval policy from 1897 until 1916. Before the Germany Empire formed in 1871, Prussia never had a real navy, nor did the other German states. Tirpitz turned the modest little fleet into a world-class force that could threaten the British Royal Navy. The British responded with new technology typified by the Dreadnaught revolution, and remained in the lead.\n\nGermany's navy was not strong enough to confront the British in World War I; the one great naval Battle of Jutland failed to end Britain's control of the seas or break the stifling blockade. Germany turned to submarine warfare. The laws of war required an effort be made to allow passengers and crew to board lifeboats before sinking a ship. The Germans disregarded the law and in the most dramatic episode sank the Lusitania in 1915 in a few minutes. The U.S. demanded it stop, and Germany did so. Admiral Henning von Holtzendorff (1853-1919), chief of the admiralty staff, argued successfully in early 1917 to resume the attacks and thus starve the British. The German high command realized the resumption of unrestricted submarine warfare meant war with the United States but calculated that American mobilization would be too slow to stop a German victory on the Western Front.\n\nThe First World War was a global conflict that lasted from 1914 to 1918. It saw the Central Powers (Germany and Austria-Hungary, later joined by the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria), fighting the \"Entente\" or \"Allied\" powers, led by Britain, Russia and France from 1914, who were later joined by Italy in 1915, and other countries such as Romania in 1916. The United States, initially neutral, tried to broker a settlement but in April, 1917, it declared war on Germany. The U.S. cooperated with the Allies but did not formally join them, and it negotiated peace separately. Despite overcoming Romania in 1916 and Russia in March 1918, the Central Powers collapsed in November, 1918; and Germany accepted an \"armistice\" that in practice was a total surrender. Much of the diplomatic efforts of the major powers was oriented toward learning neutral countries into the alliance with promises of rich territorial rewards. Britain, United States and Germany spent large sums funding their allies. Propaganda campaigns to maintain morale at home and undermine morale in the enemy camp, especially among minorities, was a priority for the major powers. They also engaged in subversion, by subsidizing political groups that try to overthrow the enemy regime, as the Bolsheviks did in Russia in 1917.\nBoth sides made secret agreements with neutrals to entice them into joining the war in return for a slice of enemy territory after victory was achieved. Some land was promised to several nations, so some promises therefore had to be broken. That left permanent bitter legacies especially in Italy. Blaming the war in part on secret treaties, President Wilson called in his Fourteen Points for \"open covenants, openly arrived at\".\n\nThe world war was settled by the victors at the Paris Peace Conference in 1919. 27 nations sent delegations, and there were many nongovernmental groups, but the defeated powers were not invited.\n\nThe \"Big Four\" were President Woodrow Wilson of the United States, Prime Minister David Lloyd George of Great Britain, Georges Clemenceau of France, and Italian Prime Minister Vittorio Orlando. They met together informally 145 times and made all the major decisions, which in turn were ratified by the others.\n\nThe major decisions were the creation of the League of Nations; the five peace treaties with defeated enemies (most notably the Treaty of Versailles with Germany); heavy reparations imposed on Germany; the awarding of German and Ottoman overseas possessions as \"mandates\", chiefly to Britain and France; and the drawing of new national boundaries (sometimes with plebiscites) to better reflect the forces of nationalism. In the \"guilt clause\" (section 231), the war was blamed on \"aggression by Germany and her allies.\" Germany only paid a small fraction of the reparations before they were suspended in 1931.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35713838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35713838", "title": "Khoshut Khanate", "text": "Khoshut Khanate\n\nThe Khoshut Khanate was an Oirat khanate based in the Tibetan Plateau in the 17th and the 18th centuries. It was established in 1642 by Güshi Khan, a Khoshut prince and leader of the Upper Mongols. He was enthroned by the Dalai Lama as Khan and protector-ruler of Tibet. With Güshi Khan as a largely uninvolved overlord, the 5th Dalai Lama and his intimates established a civil administration which is referred to by historians as the \"Lhasa state\". This Tibetan government is also referred to as the Ganden Phodrang. the Ganden Phodrang government lasted until the 1950s, when Tibet was incorporated into the People's Republic of China. The Khoshut Khanate was conquered by the troops of the Dzungar Khanate in 1717, who deposed Yeshe Gyatso, a pretender to the position of the Dalai Lama promoted by Lha-bzang Khan, the last ruler of the Khoshut Khanate. The Dzungars were in turn expelled by the expedition forces of the Qing dynasty from Tibet in 1720.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58045107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58045107", "title": "Kiko Matthews", "text": "Kiko Matthews\n\nKiko Matthews (born in 1982) is a British long-distance rower. On 22 March 2018, she became the fastest female to row the Atlantic, solo and unsupported. Matthews\nrowed the 4819 km from Gran Canaria to Port St. Charles, Barbados in 49 days 7 hours and 15 minutes.\nThrough sponsorship of her world record attempt, Matthews had already raised over £82,000 for King's College Hospital by 26 March 2018.\n\nMatthews grew up in Herefordshire. In 2009, she had a nearly fatal brain tumor, which resulted in Cushing's disease. She was treated at King's College Hospital, and had to undergo neurosurgery. In August 2017, she had another tumor, which occurred while she was training for the Atlantic crossing.\n\n"}
{"id": "14802647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14802647", "title": "La Guita Xica", "text": "La Guita Xica\n\nLa Guita Xica () is a dragon that appears amongst the legends of Catalonia beginning in 1890.The dragon had many names, including Guita Boja, La Guita Xica, Mulaguita, La Mulassa, Mula Fera, and Mula Guita. Its name transformed over time, originally started as Mulassa, then Mulaguita, and finally Guita by the twentieth century. The name La Mulassa comes from an older term, mulassas, meaning 'monstrous mules,' which was used in Catalan mythology to refer to mule-dragon hybrids. La Guita Xica was originally considered a demon, but has become a protective spirit over the past century. It is also called a tarasca, which is a name for draconic creatures of Spanish and Latin American folklore.\n\nLa Guita Xica was half-mule and half-dragon. This comes from Catalan mountains where the mule remains a richly evocative animal. It had a strong practical importance, but it is also known for its temperament, which was disruptive and uneasy to the point where its domestication was considered untrustworthy. Originally La Guita Xica was considered a threatening force but it is now considered a protective dragon that defends the people of Catalonia and the Eucharist's festivals of Patum de Berga. During the festivals, large representations of the dragon are built in the town squares, spitting fireworks.\n\nIt has a green body similar to that of an equine, and a very long neck and fangs. La Guita Xica's neck has been likened to that of the Loch Ness Monster.\n\n\n”Giants, Monsters, and Dragons: An Encyclopedia of Folklore, Legend, and Myth” (Paperback)Carol Rose 2001\n"}
{"id": "50675544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50675544", "title": "Lions' Obelisk", "text": "Lions' Obelisk\n\nThe Lions' Obelisk, also known as the Obelisk of Lions (Romanian: \"Obeliscul cu lei\") is a historical monument in Copou Park, Iași, Romania.\n\nThe construction was built between 1834 and 1841 and is dedicated to the Law of Organic Rules.\n\nConsidered one of the country's oldest public monuments, the tall edifice was finalized under the supervision of Gheorghe Asachi and is situated next to Eminescu's Linden Tree.\n"}
{"id": "43275956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43275956", "title": "Malta Boxing Commission", "text": "Malta Boxing Commission\n\nThe Malta Boxing Commission is an officially recognised professional boxing sanctioning organisation in Malta. Founded in 2011 by Alex Zammit and Gianluca DiCaro, the Malta Boxing Commission was inducted into the European Boxing Union at the 2011 AGM in Dublin, Ireland, but later had its membership revoked. In December 2012, former two-time, two-division champion of the world Steve Collins became the new President of the Malta Boxing Commission. In June 2014, Malta Boxing Commission was inducted by the Association of Boxing Commissions\n"}
{"id": "53375358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53375358", "title": "Malá Strana Bridge Tower", "text": "Malá Strana Bridge Tower\n\nThe Malá Strana Bridge Tower () is located in Prague, Czech Republic. The tower serves as the entrance to Malá Strana from the Charles Bridge.\n\n"}
{"id": "52585815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52585815", "title": "Milda Dargužaitė", "text": "Milda Dargužaitė\n\nMilda Dargužaitė (born 1976) is Lithuanian Manager, since December 2016 Chancellor in the Office of the Government of the Republic of Lithuania. She was the Managing General Director of Invest Lithuania. She worked as Co-head of the Strategic Asset Allocation Team at Goldman Sachs in New York City.\n\nDargužaitė graduated from the High School in Kaunas and lived in the United States of America for 17 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "46273431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46273431", "title": "Mitvim", "text": "Mitvim\n\nMitvim – The Israeli Institute for Regional Foreign Policies, is a think tank based in Ramat Gan, Israel. Mitvim's goals are to develop and promote a new, progressive foreign policy paradigm for Israel; to advance Israeli–Palestinian peace; and to reshape Israel's regional relations in the Middle East, Europe, and the Mediterranean.\n\nMitvim was established in 2011, by Dr. Nimrod Goren, a 2009–10 Fulbright Hubert H. Humphrey Fellow at Syracuse University. Mitvim is consistently ranked among the top 50 think tanks in the Middle East and North Africa by the University of Pennsylvania's Global Go To Think Tank Report, and is also recognized as one of the world's leading regional studies centers. Mitvim has core staff members and a network of policy fellows, researchers, and experts.\n\nMitvim has three program areas: improving Israel's foreign policy, advancing Israeli–Palestinian peace, and promoting Israel's regional belonging in the Middle East, the Mediterranean, and Europe. In each program area, Mitvim produces original research and policy recommendations, which are put into policy use via publications, briefings, meetings with politicians, government officials, and diplomats, regional exchanges, and media engagement. Mitvim activities include research, policy planning workshops, task teams, expert working groups, and public opinion polls.\n\nTo improve Israel's foreign policy, Mitvim develops guiding principles for a new foreign policy paradigm that is pro-peace, multi-regional, outward looking, modern, and inclusive of Palestinian citizens of Israel.[2] Mitvim also develops recommendations to empower and strengthen Israel's foreign service and Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA). Mitvim works with the Knesset and Ministry of Foreign Affairs to elevate the level of knowledge on foreign policy issues, and studies public opinion on relevant topics.\n\nTo advance Israeli–Palestinian peace, Mitvim supports official peace processes and initiatives, and develops new mechanisms for pro-peace civil society cooperation. Mitvim works to analyze and formulate effective incentives package for peace, develop policy proposals to advance the peace process, and engage with Palestinian and regional think tanks on policy dialogues towards peace. Mitvim engages with international diplomats and decision-makers (from Europe, the US, regional countries, and the United Nations). Mitvim provides expertise on the status of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict; provides recommendations on improving international efforts to support the peace process; and provides analysis of opportunities to improve the situation on the ground when there is no clear political progress towards peace.\n\nTo promote Israel's regional belonging, Mitvim establishes new channels for policy dialogue with Arab think tanks, and identifies the opportunities to promote Israeli–Arab regional cooperation, while emphasizing their linkage to Israeli–Palestinian peace. In 2017, Mitvim and the Davis Institute held a workshop assessing the impact of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict on Israel's Foreign Relations in the Middle East, Europe, China and East Asia, and with the United States.[3]\n\nMitvim engages with international diplomats, special envoys, and decision-makers in three areas: providing expertise on the status of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict; providing recommendations and analysis on improving international efforts to support the peace process; and providing analysis of opportunities for international partners to improve the situation on the ground in the absence of a peace process. Mitvim's engagement includes special briefings, brainstorming sessions, and ongoing policy dialogue. Mitvim experts also produce regular analyses and gives media interviews explaining the initiatives, their relevance to the Israeli public, and the opportunities they hold.\n\nMitvim also provides briefings to Knesset caucuses, conferences, and parliamentarians on issues relating to Israel's foreign policy and regional relations.\n\nMitvim establishes and participates in regional dialogues and joint policy recommendations with Turkish, Jordanian, Palestinian, and other experts.\n\nDuring the Israel–Turkey diplomatic crisis, Mitvim engaged in a policy dialogue to support reconciliation, through a program of Track II Diplomacy and policy dialogue with Turkish civil society partners. The Israel–Turkey Policy Dialogue Publication Series of Mitvim and the Global Political Trends Center, in cooperation with Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung, includes: \"Turkey–Israel Relations: Crises and Cooperation\", \"The Path to Normalization between Israel and Turkey\", \"The Risks and Rewards of Israeli–Turkish Energy Cooperation\", \"Turkey–Israel Deal: A Key to Long-Term Reconciliation?\" \"The Israel–Turkey Deal Could Benefit the Palestinians\", and \"Turkey and Israel: A Chronicle of Relations\". The Mitvim Institute's sixth annual Israeli–Turkish policy dialogue was held in Istanbul in October 2017. It focused on the state of Israel–Turkey relations following the reconciliation agreement signed by the two countries in June 2016, and on Turkey's foreign policy in light of the changing the Middle East. The policy dialogue, which was held in cooperation with the Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung, included a series of meetings with Turkish scholars, analysts, and journalists.\n\nMitvim has partnerships and joint policy projects with civil society organizations in Europe and in the Eastern Mediterranean, and is leading an international working group on “New Euro-Mediterranean Dynamics in the Eastern Mediterranean”, in cooperation with the EuroMeSCo Network. The working group focuses on energy resources in the Eastern Mediterranean, regional security and conflict resolution, the implications of the war in Syria, prospects for economic cooperation, relations with the EU, and challenges to democracy and civil society. The regional working group was officially launched at the EuroMeSCo annual conference in Barcelona.\n\nIn 2017, two Mitvim experts, Dr. Ehud Eiran and Dr. Nimrod Goren, participated in the Palestinian–Israeli Peace Symposium held in Beijing under the auspices of China’s Foreign Minister. The symposium marked an effort by China to engage on Israeli–Palestinian peacemaking, and to bring together policy experts and leaders.\n\nMitvim conducts workshops led by local and international experts. Previous workshop topics include: how to make Israel's foreign policy more inclusive; US security guarantees as an incentive for peace; Israel–Turkey reconciliation; an Israeli–Palestinian roundtable on the French Peace Initiative; Israel-Lebanon relations; the European offer for a Special Privileged Partnership (SPP) as an incentive for peace; and policy learning from other conflicts to promote Israeli-Palestinian conflict resolution.\n\nFollowing the February 2017 incidents on the Israel–Syria border, Mitvim convened a policy workshop on how to prevent Israel-Iran escalation in Syria via diplomacy. Mitvim hosted Ofer Zalzberg from the International Crisis Group who presented a new comprehensive report on the issue and discussed how different countries can help Israel promote its interests in Syria.\n\nMitvim holds local and international conflicts on topics relating to its three program areas. Selected 2017 conferences include:\n\nThe Arab Peace Initiative at 15 Years – In 2017, Mitvim and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem's Leonard Davis Institute held an international conference titled The Arab Peace Initiative at 15 Years. The conference focused on the content of the Arab Peace Initiative (API) and its background, the current status of the API and Israel's recent policies and attitudes towards it, and the future of the API, including policy directions through which the API can advance the peace process. The conference closed with a keynote address by MK Tzipi Livni. Nitzan Horowitz, \"Arab Peace Initiative – The Greatest Missed Opportunity in Israel's History,\" Jerusalem Post, April 25, 2017 http://www.jpost.com/Opinion/Arab-Peace-Initiative-the-greatest-missed-opportunity-in-Israels-history-488952\n\nThe Impact of the Conflict on Israel's Foreign Relations – Mitvim and the Leonard Davis Institute for International Relations held a public panel event exploring the extent to which the Israeli-Palestinian conflict affects Israel's foreign relations in June 2017. summary of the discussion was published after the event.\n\nNew Euro-Mediterranean Dynamics in the Eastern Mediterranean – Mitvim led this panel at the 2017 annual conference of the EuroMesSCo Network; participated by Dr. Nimrod Goren and Gabriel Mitchel of Mitvim, Muriel Asseburg of SWP (Germany), Thanos Dokos of ELIAMEP (Greece) and Michael Asiedu of Global Political Trends Center (Turkey).\n\nIsrael and International conflicts – What can be learned? – In April 2017, Mitvim and the Frances Brody Institute for Applied Diplomacy held a conference on lessons for Israeli – Palestinian peacemaking from other international conflict and assessing how Israel can cotribute to the resolution of other conflicts. The panel included content on Mitvim Policy Fellow Dr. Dahlia Scheindlin's work on conflict comparisons.\n\nMitvim experts provide lectures to visiting groups from Europe and the United States. Mitvim runs an intensive summer course, Domestic and Regional Aspects of the Israeli-Palestinian Peace Process, for graduate students of Syracuse University's Institute for National Security and Counterterrorism. The course includes a series of expert lectures and tours centered on the impact of social and political processes in Israel and the Middle East on the future of the peace process, as well as on US attempts to move the peace process forward. Mitvim experts also provide lectures to visiting groups from Europe and the United States.\n\nMitvim regularly publishes policy papers and reports, and its experts provide commentary, interviews, and analysis in Israeli and international media outlets.\n\nA Pro-Peace Israeli Foreign Policy, by Yael Patir\n\nA Multi-Regional Israeli Foreign Policy, by Yoav Stern\n\nAn Outward-Looking Israeli Foreign Policy, by Dr. Ehud Eiran and Mireille Surowicz\n\nLessons for Israel and Palestine from Conflict Comparisons, by Dr. Dahlia Scheindlin\n\nMitvim publishes op-eds on a range of topics related to Israel, the Middle East, and European and American policies. Experts regularly engage with the media and provide radio, print, and television interviews and commentaries. All op-eds are published on Mitvim's website.\n\nSeveral examples of Mitvim's policy papers include \"Strengthening Israel's Foreign Service: Recommendations of a Mitvim Institute Task Team,\" Guiding Principles for a New Israeli Foreign Policy Paradigm – Recommendations of a Mitvim Institute Task-Team, and \"International Involvement towards Israeli–Palestinian Conflict Resolution, A policy paper submitted to the International Working Group to Advance Israeli-Palestinian Peacemaking.\"\n\nMitvim publishes two monthly reports relating to developments in the Middle East: US Policies towards Israel and the Middle East, and the Diplomatic Report (Hebrew).\n\nPlease see Mitvim's Annual Foreign Policy Index and Public Opinion Polling.\n\nMitvim publishes an annual Israeli Foreign Policy Index. Since 2012, the poll has been carried out by the Rafi Smith Institute, and in cooperation with Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung, among a representative sample of Israel’s adult population (600 men and women, Jews and Arabs, aged 18 and above). The poll includes questions relating to five categories: The state of Israel’s foreign policy, Israel among the nations, foreign policy priorities and bilateral relations, regional cooperation, and the Israeli-Palestinian peace process.\n\nThe 2017 Index included questions on the Israel-Arab relations, the impact of anti-democratic legislation on Israel's global standing, Palestinian reunification, US-Russian power projections in the Middle East, and the Iran nuclear deal. It received media attention.\n\nIn addition to the Israeli Foreign Policy Index, Mitvim published in 2017 a poll on the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict and Israel's Relations with the Middle East, Europe, and the US. The poll's findings were discussed in a workshop on the impact of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict on Israel's foreign relations held by the Mitvim Institute and the Leonard Davis Institute at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.\n\nMitvim held its first annual conference in Jerusalem, on November 1, 2017. The conference, titled \"Opportunities for Israel's Foreign Relations Towards 2018,\" included a keynote address by Avi Gabbay, Chairman of the Labor Party and Zionist Union. This was Gabbay's first major speech on foreign policy, and it focused on how to improve Israel's foreign policy and foreign service. During the conference, Mitvim released the findings of its 2017 Israeli Foreign Policy Index. The conference also featured a public panel on emerging opportunities for Israel's foreign relations in 2018 that included Yael Patir, Eran Etzion, Helit Barel, Dr. Thabet Abu Rass, and Prof. Elie Podeh. Prior to the public panel, a closed-door roundtable discussion was held to discuss insights from Mitvim's research and policy work throughout the year. Former MK and Mitvim Board Member Colette Avital delivered at the conference a commemoration of the Yitzhak Rabin Memorial Day.\n"}
{"id": "45390363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45390363", "title": "Navigation Data Standard", "text": "Navigation Data Standard\n\nThe Navigation Data Standard (NDS) is a standardized format for automotive-grade navigation databases, jointly developed by automobile manufacturers and suppliers. NDS is an association registered in Germany. Members are automotive OEMs, map data providers, and navigation device/application providers.\n\nNDS aims to develop a standardized binary database format that allows the exchange of navigation data between different systems. NDS separates navigation software from navigation data, thus enhancing flexibility for creating various navigation products for end users. In addition to this interoperability, NDS databases support incremental updates, protection against illegal use, and compactness.\n\nNDS products have been available in the market since 2012, among others in BMW, Daimler, and Volkswagen cars.\n\nThe vision of NDS is to provide a leading worldwide map standard for automotive-grade use. A “leading standard” means that the map format shall:\n\n\"Automotive grade\" implies that:\n\nTo realize this vision, NDS pursues the following goals:\n\nTo support the adoption of the navigation standard and reach its goals, NDS supports NDS projects (e.g. by providing tools and support), constantly develops the standard technically, and aims at enlarging the association.\n\nNDS uses the SQLite Database File Format. An NDS database can consist of several product databases, and each product database may be divided further into update regions. This concept supports a flexible and consistent versioning concept for NDS databases and makes it possible to integrate databases from different database suppliers into one NDS database. The inner structure of databases complying with NDS is further characterized by building blocks, levels and the content itself.\n\nEach product database is delivered by one database supplier, has its own version control and can therefore be updated independently from other product databases. Product databases can contain one or more building blocks. Product databases cover a geographic area, which can be further divided into several update regions. Example of a product database: Europe basic navigation supplied by TomTom.\n\nAn update region represents a geographic area in a database that can be subject to an update. Update regions thus enable incremental and partial updating of defined geographic regions within an NDS database. Example: Each European country within the product “Europe basic navigation” may be presented by a separate update region.\n\nAll navigation data in an NDS database belongs a specific building block. Each building block addresses specific functional aspects of navigation, such as names for location input, routing, or map display. To cover specific use cases, navigation systems and applications may be required to filter and aggregate data from different building blocks, e.g. from both Routing and Map Display in order to calculate a route and show it to the user.\nEach update region may contain data from multiple building blocks. Within a product database, which has several update regions, there may thus be several instances of the same building block. Example: In a Europe product database, there may be a Basic Map Display building block in the update region “France” and a Basic Map Display building block in the update region “Germany”.\n\nThe NDS standard is documented regarding database structures, interoperability requirements, and update processes. The NDS association provides various tools that can be used by the NDS members to develop and validate maps:\n\nThe NDS association was founded in September 2008 as a German registered association (German: “). The NDS articles and the associated bylaws form the legal basis of the NDS association.\nAs of January 2017, the NDS association has the following members:\n\nThe members of the NDS association are legally established companies or bodies. NDS members nominate persons who represent the members in the respective bodies. NDS has the following bodies:\n\n"}
{"id": "31715349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31715349", "title": "Osun Defender", "text": "Osun Defender\n\nThe Osun Defender founded in 2006, is a privately owned tabloid newspaper that publishes news about Osun State, Nigeria, as well as national and other news. It is published by Moremi Publishing House Ltd, of Osogbo, Osun State. Kola Olabisi is the managing editor. The \"Osun Defender\" claims to have the sixth most visited newspaper website in Nigeria. \nThe newspaper has traditionally been the voice of the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) political party.\n\nDuring the April 2007 elections, an attempt was made to assassinate Rauf Adesoji Aregbesola, the ACN candidate for governor. Kola Olabisi, editor of the \"Osun Defender\", almost died when a bullet passed through his dress without harming him.\nOn 14 May 2007 the newspaper published a story with title \"Osun Police Arrest 764 Over Election Protest\", discussing a news conference by activist Amitolu Shittu where he discussed the trial of demonstrators protesting what they said was rigging of the 14 April presidential election. Shittu accused the Judge of releasing demonstrators in return for bribes. The judge promptly issued arrest warrants for Shittu, the reporter who wrote the article and managing editor Kola Olabisi, all of whom went into hiding.\n"}
{"id": "5154786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5154786", "title": "PTV Global", "text": "PTV Global\n\nPTV Global is a Pakistani basic cable and satellite television channel by Pakistan Television Corporation that is aired nationwide as well as in Europe and United States. Its broadcasts select programming from PTV National, PTV News and other PTV-run networks. On air since April 2006, PTV Global is available via Dish Network in the US. Its wide range of programmes are enjoyed by many people. Part of the Pakistan Television Corporation brand name, it is under control of the Government of Pakistan. In the United Kingdom PTV Global is free-to-air on Sky Channel 724 and also in Mainland Europe on Eutelsat 28A.\n\nPTV Global was launched on Sky Channel 810 in 2007. It commenced its transmissions on 2 April 2007.\n\nPTV Global was launched in 2006. It is one of the six channels of the PTV Network. It commenced its transmission for the United States on 22 April 2006 and for the United Kingdom on 2 April 2007.\n\nPTV Global beams its transmission from Islamabad, Pakistan on AsiaSat-35, and is viewed in over 50 countries worldwide, covering the continents of Asia, Africa, Europe, America and Australia. PTV Global is available exclusively in the US on the Dish Network.\nPTV is the most watched television network in Pakistan.\n\nPTV-Global covers news and current affairs programming, including all facets of national politics, economy, current affairs, regional and international news, with a focus on the culture, art and music of Pakistan.\n\n27 July 2020 PTV Global commenced 1080i high definition broadcasts on the Satellite broadcasting HD platform\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3130369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3130369", "title": "Pete Mitchell (broadcaster)", "text": "Pete Mitchell (broadcaster)\n\nPete Mitchell was born in Crumpsall, Manchester, England. He was previously a radio presenter for Manchester's Piccadilly Radio, Key 103, BBC Radio 2, BBC 6 Music and Xfm and was one half of duo Pete & Geoff on Virgin Radio. His music documentaries have been aired in America, Canada, Australia and Asia.He now works for Absolute Radio and writes for the \"Radio Times\", the \"Daily Express\" and \"Q\" magazine.\n\nMitchell began his career in 1986 as a sports commentator for Red Rose Radio in Lancashire. He moved to Manchester's Piccadilly Radio in 1989 and, as the station gained a new identity and become Key 103, presented the popular afternoon show and developed, wrote and produced \"IQ\", his own specialist weekend music programme. \"IQ\" featured guest interviews and live sets from both established and up-and-coming acts. He championed the indie bands of the \"Madchester\" scene in the early 1990s. \"IQ\" featured bands such as Oasis, Inspiral Carpets, James, Badly Drawn Boy, 808 State and Happy Mondays.\n\nMitchell was introduced to Geoff Lloyd in the mid-1990s by actor and writer Craig Cash, star of \"The Royle Family\". Lloyd was an aspiring comedy writer and performer, and a fellow radio presenter. In 1996 Lloyd joined Mitchell on his afternoon radio show. The duo rapidly established a cult following with their witty and slightly risquė banter, and in 1998 won a Sony Radio Academy Award for their show.\n\nIn 1999 they were recruited by Virgin Radio, where they took over the weekday evening show and covered Chris Evans on the breakfast show, and again rapidly built up a significant audience. The pair took over the drivetime show in early 2002. By 2003 they were the most popular DJs on the station and were moved to the breakfast show to increase the audience. This they did very successfully, sticking to their well-established formula of slightly risquė banter about contemporary news and culture, with Mitchell tending to play the \"straight man\" to the more outrageous Lloyd. They won another Gold Sony Radio Award for their show.\n\nOn 28 November 2005, the duo announced that they were splitting up and leaving the breakfast show on Virgin Radio. Their final show together took place on 16 December. While Lloyd remained at Virgin Radio, Mitchell left to join BBC Radio 2.\n\nIn addition to this, Mitchell took over the Saturday sports show \"Rock & Roll Football\" when Chris Evans stood down. From 2002 Mitchell also presented a weekly show on his own called \"Razor Cuts\", where he showcased new music and interviewed many bands and artists who picked their favourite tunes and played live on the show. Guests included Morrissey, Lou Reed, Elvis Costello, Pixies, The Killers, New Order, Paul McCartney and Mick Jagger.\n\nFrom April 2006 until May 2009, Mitchell presented shows for BBC Radio 2, featuring interviews with guests including Sam Moore, John Legend, Gloria Jones, The Velvelettes, Ronnie Spector and Noddy Holder. A regular spot named \"Where in the World is Carmine?\" featured former Vanilla Fudge drummer Carmine Appice. American broadcaster Leslie 'Radio Chick' Gold guested as the show's USA correspondent, while Professor Timothy English looked into plagiarism in music. During his time at BBC Radio 2 Mitchell also presented \"Sold on Song\" live with Donovan, and appeared as a fan of Bob Dylan in the BBC radio series \"Imagine\". He also covered many shifts across Radio 2 and 6 Music.\n\nIn 2008, Mitchell produced and presented the Radio 2 documentary \"I'm on My Way\", on Northern soul star Dean Parrish; he later produced \"Spellbound\", on guitarist John McGeoch who played with Magazine, Siouxsie and the Banshees, Visage and PiL amongst others. \"Toerag\", the story of Liam Watson, a documentary about one of Britain's most in-demand record producers, presented by Mitchell, was broadcast on 3 May on Radio 2. Watson produced \"Elephant\" by the White Stripes, which went to number one around the world, from his little studio in Hackney in East London. The \"Carmine Appice Story\", the tale of the rock drummer with Vanilla Fudge, was broadcast in September on Radio 2.\n\nIn 2009, the Motown record label celebrated its 50th birthday. Mitchell indulged his passion for the subject and presented various programmes to mark the occasion. The 6-part series \"Hitsville USA: 50 Years of Heart & Soul\" ran weekly from 5 January 2009 on Radio 2 and offered (to quote the \"Radio Times\") \"a nourishing insight into the label's rare treasures\". \"Motorcity Blues\" aired on 10 January on Radio 2, with a fascinating portrait of the city of Detroit and how its events and people have shaped the Motown label. \"The Sound of Young America\" went out on Radio 2 on 17 January and told of how the Motown Sound has influenced music today. Mitchell's documentary \"Toerag\" was broadcast on 6 Music in July 2009. \"Spellbound\", the story of guitarist John McGeoch, was broadcast on 6 Music in April 2011.\n\nMitchell presented his first XFM breakfast show on Monday 15 June 2009 and his alternative radio show \"Razor Cuts\" on Sunday 21 June 2009. His first \"Razor Cuts\" guest was former New Order member bassist Peter Hook, who spoke candidly about the break-up of the legendary band. Guitarist Johnny Marr revealed that he had been offered $50 million to reform The Smiths on the show recently. Other guests included Jarvis Cocker, Shaun Ryder, Paul Weller, Bernard Sumner, Mike Joyce, Delphic, Ian McCulloch, Dave Grohl, Jack White and Courtney Love. \n\nOn Sunday 9 August 2009, Mitchell presented a The Stone Roses documentary with producer John Leckie about the 20th anniversary of The Stone Roses' debut album. In May 2010 he produced and presented \"Some Friendly\", a documentary on the 20th anniversary of the Charlatans' debut album, where the band and producer Chris Nagle were reunited by Mitchell for the first time since the album was recorded. It was broadcast on 16 May 2010.\n\n\"Screamadelica and The Second Summer of Love\", produced and narrated by Mitchell, aired on Absolute 90s, billed as the UK's only station dedicated to music from that decade, on Friday 26 November 2010 at the end of a week of Primal Scream activity timed to coincide with the band's Screamdelica live dates. It charted the making of the album, including an interview with singer Bobby Gillespie, as well as examining the wider context of the dance music explosion and rave culture, with contributions from The Inspiral Carpets' Clint Boon, Hacienda DJ Dave Haslam and Scream vocalist Denise Johnson.\n\nMitchell is now presenting on Absolute Radio Q Radio Show Sunday 10pm, Absolute Radio 90s (Pete Mitchell's 24hr Party People: Saturday 8pm10pm) and Absolute Radio 60s/70s.\n\nHe presents the Absolute Radio 60s weekday mid-morning show (10am1pm), plus the Absolute 60s and Absolute Radio 70s Soul and Funk show Soul Time, which is broadcast on Saturday/Sundays. The show looks at Motown, Northern Soul, funk and Stax records amongst others. He regularly has star guests who have included Earth, Wind & Fire, John Legend, Smokey Robinson, George Clinton, Candi Staton, The O'Jays and Mary Wilson of the Supremes, who pick their favourite soul and funk recording.\n\nHe also presents documentaries and interviews across the Absolute Radio network which have included Come On: 50 Years of the Rolling Stones; One Love: the Continuing Story of the Stone Roses; Revolutions: the influence of the Beatles; Inside Joy Division; Hacienda: the World's Greatest Night Club; The Story of the Clash; Here Come the Girls: the story of the Girl Group Sound; Good Times: Nile Rodgers; The Boy from Burnage: the Noel Gallagher Story; and Not Fade Away: the Return of the Rolling Stones.\n\nMitchell has appeared on \"Sky News\", Channel 4’s \"Top 100 Albums\", Channel 5's \"Top 100 Singles\", ITV’s Madonna special, \"Eggheads\" for the BBC, Sky One’s \"Hidden Secret\", MTV, CNN, Channel 5 news,\"Pete & Geoff’s Top 9s\" for VH1 and \"The Royle Family\" for Granada/BBC—to name but a few. He has written regularly for the \"Manchester Evening News\" and often contributes to the \"Daily Star\". During his career he has guest written for some of the UK's most influential music magazines including City Life and Q Magazine. A love of alternative music, along with a passion for funk, soul and Motown has led to various high-profile appearances as a club DJ. In the past Mitchell has DJed at Manchester venue The Haçienda and more recently at Alan McGee's Death Disco at Notting Hill Arts Club.\n\n"}
{"id": "36523119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36523119", "title": "Postage stamps and postal history of Eswatini", "text": "Postage stamps and postal history of Eswatini\n\nThis is a survey of the postage stamps and postal history of Swaziland.\n\nThe first stamps of Swaziland were overprinted stamps of Transvaal issued 18 October 1889.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48369431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48369431", "title": "Pražský výběr", "text": "Pražský výběr\n\nPražský výběr is Czech rock band, formed in 1976 in Prague. Their first album \"Žízeň\" was released in 1978. Their second album \"Pražský výběr\" (also known as \"Straka v hrsti\") was recorded in 1982. The band was banned in communist Czechoslovakia and the album was released in 1988. Their last album was released in 1997. The band broke up in 2006. In 2012, the group was reunited with two drummers. They plan to release a new album in 2016. Members of the group were Michael Kocáb, Michal Pavlíček and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "19532944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19532944", "title": "Puysegur Trench", "text": "Puysegur Trench\n\nThe deep Puysegur Trench is a deep cleft in the floor of the south Tasman Sea formed by the subduction of the Indo-Australian Plate under the Pacific Plate to the south of New Zealand. Immediately to its east lies a ridge, a northern extension of the Macquarie Ridge, which separates the Puysegur Trench from the Solander Trough. To the west is the expanse of the Tasman Basin, which stretches most of the distance to Australia. To the north of the trench lies the Fiordland Basin, which can be considered an extension of the trench. The Puysegur Trench mirrors the Kermadec Trench and Tonga Trench north of New Zealand.\n\nThe Puysegur Trench stretches for over 800 kilometres south from the southwesternmost point of the South Island's coast, its southernmost extent being 400 kilometres due west of the Auckland Islands. It is named after Puysegur Point.\n\nThe area around the Puysegur Trench is highly seismically active, with the Alpine Fault starting at the trench's northern end. In July 2009, New Zealand's third-largest recorded earthquake (magnitude 7.8) struck close to the northern end of the trench off the coast of Fiordland. A magnitude 7.2 quake hit the trench itself in November 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054581", "title": "Rural Economy and Agriculture Committee", "text": "Rural Economy and Agriculture Committee\n\nThe Rural Economy and Agriculture Committee of the African Union's Economic, Social and Cultural Council deals with:\n\n\nThe Chairperson of the Committee is Patrick Kayemba.\n"}
{"id": "55581385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55581385", "title": "Sbrana Psychiatric Hospital", "text": "Sbrana Psychiatric Hospital\n\nSbrana Psychiatric Hospital is a public psychiatric hospital in Lobatse, Botswana. It is situated to the north of the mall and was built on the site of the Botswana Prisons. Sbrana works as a referral hospital to cater for everyone around Botswana.\n\nSbrana psychiatric hospital is a national referral health institution that serves the community of Botswana. It was established in 2010 after being converted from Lobatse mental clinic to a psychiatric hospital. Sbrana is affiliated to the Health sciences institution in Botswana, it provides teaching services to medical students as part of their job training and internships. The hospital has facilities which includes the football field, the gymnasium, tennis court and soft ball courts.\n\nSantana Psychiatric hospital specializes in the treatment of serious mental illness, such as clinical depression, schizophrenia, and bipolar disorder.\n"}
{"id": "1127300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1127300", "title": "Setesuyara", "text": "Setesuyara\n\nSetesuyara is the goddess of the underworld, along with Batara Kala, in traditional Balinese mythology.\n"}
{"id": "4204500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4204500", "title": "Slavena (beer)", "text": "Slavena (beer)\n\nSlavena is a Bulgarian beer. Slavena was owned by InBev, then StarBev, and is now owned by Molson Coors Brewing Company, since 2012.\n"}
{"id": "58579012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58579012", "title": "Syed Jafar al-Qa’im", "text": "Syed Jafar al-Qa’im\n\nSyed Jafar al-Qa’im (Arabic: السيد جعفر القايم) was the son of Ali bin Hussain. He sited from Baghdad to Rey, Iran. Syed jafar was high ranked mystic and activist of Zayd ibn Ali Revolution.\n\nJafar s/o Ali Sahib al Anwar s/o Hussain s/o Ahmad s/o Muhammad s/o Isma’il Sahib al Akhbar s/o Ibrahim Al-Murtadha s/o Imam Musa Kazim.\n"}
{"id": "27689287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27689287", "title": "Tamer Institute for Community Education", "text": "Tamer Institute for Community Education\n\nThe Tamer Institute for Community Education\nis a non-profit non-governmental educational organization working in Palestine. It was established in 1989 in response to Palestinian needs during the first intifada. \n\nTamer works primarily with and for children and young people, providing safe, friendly learning environments and materials. Tamer runs a publishing unit, publish a newsletter, hold courses for librarians, arranges workshops, donate books to local libraries and arranges an annual reading - and writing campaign.\n\nIn 2009, the Tamer Institute won the biggest prize in children's literature (five million SEK, approximately 460,000 EUR), the Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award from the Swedish Arts Council, recognising its \"long-term sustainable work\" as a promoter of reading. It is one of two institutions to win the award (2003 to 2012).\n"}
{"id": "26976694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26976694", "title": "WCO-EAC TFP", "text": "WCO-EAC TFP\n\nWCO-EAC TFP (World Customs Organization, East African Community Trade Facilitation Program) is a trade facilitation program to provide a uniform trade region in the East African Community member states. The program is an Authorized Economic Operator.\n"}
{"id": "50170742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50170742", "title": "Za Kaia", "text": "Za Kaia\n\nLance Corporal Za Kaia (1926 - 12 December 1949), (Burmese: ဒုတပ်ကြပ်ဇာကိုင်း) (Burma Army Serial No: 50996) was an ethnic Chin and a recipient of Thiha Thura (literally: \"Brave as a lion\") medal, the second highest award in Burma (Myanmar) for gallantry and bravery in the face of the enemy. Throughout Myanmar Army history, only 46 servicemen have been awarded this prestigious medal. \n\nZa Kaia was born in the year of 1926 to Pu Neih Thula and Pi Thang Ngovi, in Zimte village, Tedim Township, Chin Hills, British Burma. \n\nAt the age of 20, he joined the 2nd Burma Rifles Battalion and quickly earned the respect of his officers and comrades. He was promoted to the rank of Lance corporal in 1948 and entrusted him as a \"Section Commander\" i.e. he became a commander of 10 soldiers. \n\nBurma gained her independence from the United Kingdom in 1948 and deadly civil war soon followed. Za Kaia continued to serve as Lance corporal in the 2nd Burma Rifles. \n\nIn December, 1949, the \"C\" Company (about 150 soldiers) of the 2nd Burma Rifles Battalion marched towards Kayah State to pursue the retreating KNDO insurgent force. Za Kaia and the \"C\" company departed Nyaunglebin (ညောင်လေးပင်) town in central Burma to frontier area of eastern Burma and soon engaged in a ferocious battle at Nanmekhon village, approximately 6.5miles west of Loikaw on 12 December 1949. As the KNDO force consisted of about 800 soldiers there, \"C\" Company of 2nd Burma Rifles was soon surrounded as the KNDO force were superiors in both soldier numbers and weapons. Za Kaia bravely fought rebelling force and showed tremendous courage and skill of a good soldier. Za Kaia and his comrades made defensive line and constantly engage with the rebelling force. They fought back while the KNDO troops shot them mercilessly. The condition was hopeless as the \"C\" company were pinned down and KNDO soldiers fired relentlessly. \n\nHe then reported to his immediate officer that:\n\n\"Captain, if we take defensive position like this, we all will soon be killed and annihilated. So, all of our troop better fall back while me and my section will remain in this defensive position to cover your retreat. I and my section will sacrifice our life so that you can save other soldiers and fight on another day\". \n\nThe company commander then gave a retreat order as Za Kaia suggested. Za Kaia and his section hold their position and resisted the rebelling force while the whole company was retreating to safety line. He took ammunitions of his fallen comrades and continued shooting, shooting and shooting. The enemy soldiers shouted to him to surrender but he and his section never surrendered and resisted until they all are killed. He and his section had sacrificed their life for their comrades.\n\nDue to his acts of extreme bravery, he was awarded Thiha Thura medal, the second highest gallantry medal in Burma posthumously in 1951 with awarding order number 4/A Htoo (Special)/1951. The then Prime Minister of Burma U Nu, came to Falam, the Capital city of Chin Special Division and handed over this gallantry medal together with Kyats 5,000 as honorarium to the mother of Za Kaia. His mother received Kyats 40 per month as honorarium salary for this medal.\n"}
