{"id": "38436473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38436473", "title": "Adolph Otto Niedner", "text": "Adolph Otto Niedner\n\nAdolph Otto Niedner (1863–1954) was an American gunsmith remembered for pioneering work with cartridges including the .22 Long Rifle and .25-06 Remington.\n\nNiedner was born in Philadelphia to German immigrants Carl Heinrich Niedner and Augusta W. (Trapp) Niedner. He enlisted in the United States Army in 1880 and fought against the Apache uprisings led by Victorio and Geronimo. He was discharged in 1883 with a scar from a scalp wound. He served on the Milwaukee, Wisconsin police force until moving to Malden, Massachusetts in 1899 to work as a weaver in his father's business manufacturing linen socks.\n\nNiedner opened a gunsmith shop in Malden in 1906. Niedner worked with members of the Massachusetts Rifle Association, including gun barrel-maker Harry Pope, making tools and rifles for ballistics expert Franklin Ware Mann, and prototype Patridge gun sights for inventor Eugene Patridge. Niedner moved to Dowagiac, Michigan in 1920 to establish the Niedner Rifle Company, and was elected mayor of Dowagiac in 1926. Niedner specialized in chambering and single-shot rifles. Niedner manufactured custom rifles for many noted riflemen including Townsend Whelen, Charles Newton and Ned Roberts. Niedner sold the business following the death of his wife, Josephine C. (Josie), in 1940; and lived alone in Dowagiac until death from a heart attack on 27 December 1954.\n"}
{"id": "53396736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53396736", "title": "Allison Margolin", "text": "Allison Margolin\n\nAllison Margolin is an American attorney and medical marijuana advocate based in Beverly Hills, California. She initially gained notoriety for \"unorthodox ads\" that proclaimed her \"L.A.'s dopest attorney.\" Margolin was one of the first attorneys to advertise her law practice on YouTube. She is a founding partner of the well-known law firm Margolin & Lawrence, where she practices medical marijuana regulatory and business law, as well as federal and state criminal defense.\n\nThe daughter of Bruce Margolin, one of the first lawyers to champion efforts to decriminalize marijuana in the 1970s, Allison Margolin is a graduate of Columbia University and Harvard Law School. Her Harvard application essay argued that all drugs should be legalized. Margolin began her legal career representing people with terminal diseases who were facing criminal charges for marijuana activity. By 2008, she had a reputation for getting cases dismissed, and for recovering marijuana plants that had been seized by police. She has represented growers and distributors in marijuana cases in both state and federal court, including the Supreme Court of California and the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.\n\nMargolin is the author of \"Jury Nullifications and Reasonable Doubt\", published by Phoenix Books in January 2008. As a cannabis lawyer, she is an advocate for regulations that remedy the effects of the drug war and promote social equity.In 2017 she was named a SuperLawyer by Thomson Reuters. She is the only cannabis attorney in the United States with this distinction.\n"}
{"id": "25658972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25658972", "title": "Arina Rodionova", "text": "Arina Rodionova\n\nArina Ivanovna Rodionova (; born 15 December 1989 in Tambov) is a Russian-born Australian tennis player.\n\nRodionova has won nine singles and 29 doubles titles on the ITF Women's Circuit. In 2007, she won the Australian Open girls' doubles title, partnering Evgeniya Rodina. On 23 October 2017, she reached her career-high singles ranking of world No. 116. On 27 July 2015, she peaked at No. 41 in the doubles rankings.\n\nElder sister Anastasia is also a tennis professional, and the two sisters have intermittently contested doubles tournaments with modest success. Their most notable achievement as a team came at the 2010 Malaysian Open, in which they reached the final before losing to Chan Yung-jan and Zheng Jie in a super tie-break.\n\nArina Rodionova was born to Ivan and Natalia Rodionova and lives in Melbourne with her sister Anastasia. She began playing tennis aged three, \"I began playing tennis when I was almost three years old. And why exactly tennis? There wasn't any choice for me with my dad being a coach and my sister a professional tennis player, but in the end I think it's worked well!\" Rodionova cites Martina Hingis as her role model, and also admires Justine Henin and Bob and Mike Bryan. She prefers hard courts and forehand as a shot.\n\nRodionova received Australian citizenship in January 2014 and married Australian rules footballer Ty Vickery in December 2015.\n\nRodionova made her debut as a professional in 2004 at an ITF event in Protvino, Russia. In 2005, she won a title in Minsk, followed by another win in Moscow the following year. In 2008, she finished as a runner-up in an ITF event in Istanbul. In 2009, Rodionova won two ITF titles in singles and eight in doubles.\n\nIn 2010, Rodionova defeated Jarmila Groth in the final of a $25,000 tournament in Burnie. In doubles, she advanced to the final of the WTA-level Malaysian Open with her sister Anastasia. Although they defeated No. 1 seeds Alisa Kleybanova and Yan Zi along the way, the sisters lost the final match to Chan Yung-jan and Zheng Jie in close three sets.\n\nAt the 2011 Australian Open, Rodionova equalled her career-best showing at a Grand Slam tournament by qualifying for the main draw. She lost in the first round to fellow qualifier Anne Keothavong, 5–7, 4–6. She then won a $50,000 event in May in Prague, partnering Darya Kustova. She qualified for the Aegon Classic, and won her first-round match against Virginie Razzano. She then notched the biggest win of her career by defeating No. 1 seed and world No. 16 Kaia Kanepi in the second round. She lost to the 14th seed Magdaléna Rybáriková in the third round. At Wimbledon, Rodionova barely missed out on qualifying for the main draw by losing to Kristýna Plíšková in three sets. She achieved very modest results through much of the rest of the year, losing in the first or second round of most tournaments she entered.\nIn 2012, Rodionova lost in the qualifying rounds of the Apia International Sydney and the Australian Open. She then lost in the quarterfinals of a $25,000 event in Burnie. She then competed in two more ITF events – losing in the second and first round, respectively. She picked up form in ITF Mildura, reaching the semifinals. Rodionova then competed in three more tournaments, losing in the second round of all three. She then failed to qualify in Copenhagen. Her best result of the year came at the WTA clay event Grand Prix SAR La Princesse Lalla Meryem. She defeated Darija Jurak, Karolína Plíšková, and world No. 108 Mathilde Johansson to qualify for the main draw. Each match lasted three sets. She took on Timea Bacsinszky in the first round, started well by winning the first set 6–2, but was forced to retire due a severe wrist injury she sustained while trailing 0–4 in the second set. She was also forced to withdraw from the doubles competition, where she and Anastasia were the No. 1 seeds. She missed a big part of the clay-court season to recover from the injury. Rodionova returned in July; she was only able to make it past the first round in one of five ITF tournaments. However, she had a great result in Las Vegas, where she reached the semifinals. Following three more early exits in tournaments, she reached the final of a $25,000 event in Traralgon, and followed this up by winning her next tournament in Bendigo. She finished the year with two more early-round losses in Toyota and Dubai.\n\nIn 2011, Rodionova was drafted by the Washington Kastles WTT Team, coached by Murphy Jensen. As a result of their 14-match win undefeated regular season, the Kastles secured the top seed in the Conference Championships where they beat the Boston Lobsters. In the WTT Finals the Kastles defeated the St. Louis Aces to capture the 2011 WTT Championship for the second time in its four-year existence, completing the first ever 16–0 season in WTT 36-year history. Rodionova was named Female Rookie of the Year just prior to the Conference Championship match and later WTT Finals MVP.\n\n"}
{"id": "39692887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39692887", "title": "Ben Sasse", "text": "Ben Sasse\n\nBenjamin Eric Sasse ( ; born February 22, 1972) is an American politician, author, professor, consultant, and educational administrator from the U.S. state of Nebraska. In 2014, he was elected to a seat in the U.S. Senate. Sasse is a member of the Republican Party. \n\nBorn in Plainview, Nebraska, Sasse earned a doctorate in American history from Yale University. He taught at the University of Texas and served as an Assistant Secretary in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. In 2010, he was named president of Midland University in Fremont, Nebraska. In 2014, he successfully ran for a vacant seat in the U.S. Senate, defeating Democratic Party nominee David Domina by a margin of 65% to 31%.\n\nSasse was born on February 22, 1972, in Plainview, Nebraska, the son of Gary Lynn Sasse, a high school teacher and football coach, and Linda Sasse. He graduated from Fremont Senior High School, Fremont, Nebraska in 1990 and was valedictorian of his class.\n\nSasse graduated from Harvard University in 1994 with a bachelor's degree in government. He also studied at the University of Oxford during the fall of 1992 on a junior year abroad program. In 1998, Sasse obtained a Master of Arts in Liberal Studies from the Graduate Institute at St. John's College. He also obtained Master of Arts, Master of Philosophy, and Ph.D degrees in history from Yale University. Sasse's doctoral dissertation, \"The Anti-Madalyn Majority: Secular Left, Religious Right, and the Rise of Reagan's America\", won the Theron Rockwell Field and George Washington Egleston Prizes.\n\nFrom September 1994 to November 1995, Sasse worked as an associate consultant at the management consulting firm Boston Consulting Group. For the next year, he served as consultant/executive director for Christians United For Reformation (CURE). During his tenure, CURE merged with the Alliance of Confessing Evangelicals (ACE), and Sasse became executive director of ACE in Anaheim, California.<ref name=\"bio/9poeepo\"> Maruina, Todd, \"Conference of Top Evangelical Leaders Calls Evangelical Movement to Repentance for Liberal Theological Drifts\". United Reformed News Service, May 21, 2006; retrieved January 12, 2014.</ref>\n\nFrom January 2004 to January 2005, Sasse served as chief of staff for the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Legal Policy in Washington, D.C. and as a part-time assistant professor at the University of Texas at Austin, commuting to Austin to teach. Sasse left the Department of Justice to serve as chief of staff to Representative Jeff Fortenberry (R-Nebr.) from January 2005 to July 2005.\n\nSasse then advised the U.S. Department of Homeland Security in Washington, D.C., on national security issues from July to September 2005 as a consultant. He moved to Austin, Texas, to resume his professorship full-time from September 2005 to December 2006.\n\nFrom December 2006 to December 2007, Sasse served as counselor to the secretary at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) in Washington, D.C., where he advised the secretary on a broad spectrum of health policy issues, from healthcare access to food safety and security.\n\nIn July 2007, Sasse was nominated by President George W. Bush to the post of assistant secretary for planning and evaluation in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. His appointment was confirmed by the Senate in December 2007 and he served until the end of the Bush administration, in January 2009. During his tenure at HHS, Sasse took an unpaid leave from the University of Texas.\n\nDuring 2009, Sasse advised private equity clients and health care investors and taught at the University of Texas. In October 2009, he officially joined the University of Texas LBJ School of Public Affairs' Center for Politics and Governance as a fellow, before being appointed president of Midland University.\n\nSasse was announced as the 15th president of Midland Lutheran College (now Midland University) in October 2009. At age 37, he was one of the youngest chief executives in American higher education when he took over leadership of the 128-year-old institution in the spring of 2010. Sasse's grandfather, Elmer Sasse, worked for Midland for 33 years, mainly as vice president of finance. The school was experiencing financial and academic difficulties; Sasse has been credited with \"turn(ing) it around,\" rebranding \"Midland Lutheran College\" as Midland University, instituting new policies (including spot quizzes and class attendance), and \"prodigious fundraising.\"\n\nSasse was officially installed as president on December 10, 2010. When he was appointed, enrollment was at a historic low and the college was \"on the verge of bankruptcy.\" During his tenure as president, enrollment grew from 590 to 1,300 students. When nearby Dana College was forced to close, Sasse managed to hire much of the faculty and enable most of the students to transfer to Midland.\n\nWhen Sasse announced his intention to run for U.S. Senate, he offered to resign his post at Midland. Instead, the Board asked him to stay at Midland under a partial leave of absence; in October 2013, his employment contract was amended to reduce his remuneration. Sasse stepped down as president of Midland on December 31, 2014.\n\nIn October 2013, Sasse announced his candidacy for the United States Senate seat occupied by Republican Mike Johanns, who was not running for reelection. As of October 2013, his fundraising total of nearly $815,000 from individual donors in his first quarter broke Nebraska's previous record of $526,000 from individual donors, set in 2007 by Johanns while he was the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture.\n\nUpon announcing his candidacy, Sasse expressed strong opposition to the Affordable Care Act. His primary opponent, Shane Osborn, questioned the depth of Sasse's opposition to the ACA, publicizing articles and speeches Sasse delivered during and after the act's passage through Congress; according to the \"Omaha World-Herald\", \"Osborn's campaign appears intent on questioning whether Sasse is a true conservative.\" The Osborn campaign cited, among other pieces, a 2009 \"Bloomberg Businessweek\" column titled \"Health-Care Reform: The Rush to Pass a Bad Bill\", stating that \"There's an emerging consensus that this [an individual mandate] might be a good idea\", and a 2010 speech in which Sasse said Republicans would probably lack the votes to repeal the ACA, stating that \"a middle-class entitlement has never been repealed\", and opining that Republicans had failed to offer a viable alternative, preferring to stage \"symbolic repeal votes\". Sasse's response to the Osborn campaign's assertions was that in his articles and speeches, he was describing the political landscape rather than giving his own opinions on the merits of the ACA's provisions; to a \"World-Herald\" reporter, he declared, \"I have never changed my position on thinking Obamacare is a bad idea\".\n\nOn May 13, 2014, Sasse won 92 of 93 counties and secured the Republican nomination with 109,829 votes, or 49.4% of all votes cast; banker Sid Dinsdale came in second, with 49,829 votes (22.4%), followed by Osborn, with 46,850 votes (21.1%).\n\nOn November 4, 2014, Sasse won the general election for the U.S. Senate, defeating Democratic nominee David Domina with 64.4% of the vote to Domina's 31.5%.\n\nSasse assumed office as a United States senator on January 3, 2015. He was officially sworn in when the 114th Congress convened on January 6, 2015.\n\nCommittees\n\nSasse has been appointed to serve on the following committees in the 115th Congress:\n\nSasse's campaign website indicated that he was pro-life, stating \"even one abortion is too many\".\n\nIn early 2016, during both parties' presidential primary election seasons, Sasse announced that he would not support Republican front-runner Donald Trump should Trump become the party's nominee; he was the first sitting senator to make such an announcement. Sasse questioned Trump's commitment to the U.S. Constitution, in particular accusing him of attacking the First Amendment; stated that Trump had refused to condemn the Ku Klux Klan; and suggested that Trump \"thinks he's running for King\". He stated that if Trump won the party's nomination, then he would vote neither for him nor for Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton, but would probably \"look for some third candidate—a conservative option, a Constitutionalist\". He did not say that he would leave the party if Trump was nominated. \n\nTrump, asked about Sasse's third-party suggestion, replied, \"That would be the work of a loser.\" Several Nebraska Republican politicians, among them state senators Bob Krist and Beau McCoy and U.S. senator Deb Fischer, took exception to Sasse's statements. Krist described them as \"very immature\" and declared that Sasse should \"quietly and in a statesmanlike manner allow the system to work out and provide the leadership that needs to be provided\"; Fischer said that voting for a third-party alternative would essentially guarantee a Clinton victory.\n\nSasse has described Trump as a \"'megalomaniac strongman,'\" has \"called the president’s tariffs on steel and aluminum imports 'dumb,' and has described Trump’s escalating trade war with China [as] 'nuts.'\"\n\nIn March 2018, Sasse criticized Trump for congratulating Vladimir Putin on his election win, saying, \"The president of the United States was wrong to congratulate him, and the White House press secretary was wrong to duck a simple question about whether or not Putin's reelection was free and fair. It was not. The American people know that, the Russian people know that and the world knows that. The White House refused to speak directly and clearly about this matter; we were weakened as a nation and a tyrant was strengthened.\"\n\nIn July 2018, \"Politico\" reported that Sasse had \"quietly launched a new political non-profit group, fueling speculation that he might launch a Hail Mary bid for president rather than seek another term in the Senate.\" However, \"Politico\" also reported that Sasse and the President have been talking multiple times each month. Sasse has not ruled out a 2020 presidential bid.\n\nIn Sasse's Senate run in 2014, he received an \"AQ\" rating from the National Rifle Association (NRA). According to the NRA's press release, the rating was the most favorable that could be given to a candidate who had no voting record on gun-related issues. The NRA endorsed Sasse in the race.\n\nIn announcing his Senate candidacy, Sasse expressed strong opposition to the Affordable Care Act (ACA, a.k.a. \"Obamacare\"), describing himself as \"the anti-Obamacare candidate\" and later declaring that \"[i]f it lives, America as we know it will die.\" In the Senate, Sasse continued to support repeal of the ACA. In 2017, with Republicans unable to develop a repeal-and-replace plan that could secure a majority in the Senate, Sasse proposed an immediate repeal with a one-year delay in implementation, and called on the Senate to give up its August recess to allow it to work on a replacement measure.\n\nIn 2016, Sasse was the only senator from either party to vote against the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, which was intended to address abuse of heroin and opioid drugs by providing funds to the states for treatment and prevention programs and by making the anti-overdose drug naloxone more widely available to first responders and law enforcement agencies. Sasse said he was \"distressed by opioid abuse\" but questioned whether drug treatment should be addressed at the federal level.\n\nin 2014, Sasse's campaign website did not refer explicitly to same-sex marriage, but stated, \"Ben believes marriage is between one man & one woman\".\n\nIn September 2018, Sasse, five other Republican senators (Jeff Flake, Mike Lee, Rand Paul, David Perdue, and Pat Toomey), and Bernie Sanders voted against a $854 billion spending bill meant to avoid a government shutdown. The bill included funding for the Departments of Defense, Health and Human Services, Labor and Education.\n\nSasse is the author of \"The Vanishing American Adult\" (2017) and \"Them: Why We Hate Each Other - and How to Heal\" (2018) \n\nSasse also co-edited the book \"Here We Stand!: A Call from Confessing Evangelicals for a Modern Reformation\"\nwith theologian James Montgomery Boice.\n\nSasse and his wife, Melissa (née McLeod) Sasse, live in Fremont, Nebraska, with their three children. The children are homeschooled.\n\nSasse was raised a Lutheran and baptized in the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod. As an undergraduate in the early 1990s, he encountered the teachings of W. Robert Godfrey at the Bolton Conference. Sasse identifies this as the time when he and his wife first began to embrace the \"reformed faith\". He later became an elder in the United Reformed Churches in North America and served on the board of trustees for Westminster Seminary California. He is a member of Grace Church, a Presbyterian Church in America (PCA) congregation, in Fremont.\n\n"}
{"id": "1864174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1864174", "title": "Bernard Buffet", "text": "Bernard Buffet\n\nBernard Buffet (; 10 July 1928 – 4 October 1999) was a French painter of Expressionism and a member of the anti-abstract art group \"L'homme Témoin\" (the Witness-Man).\n\nBuffet was born in Paris, France, and studied art there at the École Nationale Supérieure des Beaux-Arts (National School of the Fine Arts) and worked in the studio of the painter Eugène Narbonne. Among his classmates were Maurice Boitel and Louis Vuillermoz.\n\nSustained by the picture-dealer Maurice Garnier, Buffet produced religious pieces, landscapes, portraits and still-lifes. In 1946, he had his first painting shown, a self-portrait, at the Salon des Moins de Trente Ans at the Galerie Beaux-Arts. He had at least one major exhibition every year. Buffet illustrated \"Les Chants de Maldoror\" written by Comte de Lautréamont in 1952. In 1955, he was awarded the first prize by the magazine Connaissance des Arts, which named the ten best post-war artists. In 1958, at the age of 30, the first retrospective of his work was held at the Galerie Charpentier.\n\nPierre Bergé was Buffet's live-in lover until Bergé left Buffet for Yves Saint Laurent.\n\nOn 12 December 1958, Buffet married the writer and actress Annabel Schwob. They adopted three children. Daughter Virginie was born in 1962, daughter Danielle in 1963 and son Nicolas was born in 1973. Bernard Buffet was named \"Chevalier de la Légion d'Honneur\" in 1973. \n\nOn 23 November 1973, the Bernard Buffet Museum was founded by Kiichiro Okano, in Surugadaira, Japan.\n\nAt the request of the French postal administration in 1978, he designed a stamp depicting the Institut et le Pont des Arts – on this occasion the Post Museum arranged a retrospective of his works.\n\nBuffet created more than 8,000 paintings and many prints as well.\n\nBuffet committed suicide at his home in Tourtour, southern France, on 4 October 1999. He was suffering from Parkinson's disease and was no longer able to work. Police said that Buffet died around 4 p.m after putting his head in a plastic bag attached around his neck with tape.\n\nThe popularity of Buffet's work, as well as the level of media attention around his lifestyle, were quite high in the 1950s and 1960s. Although he kept on painting throughout his life, there was a certain decline in interest with is work in the later decades of the 20th century. Especially so in his native country. This decline in popularity was partly influenced by his fall from grace with French art pundits, whose support and interest shifted away from figurative art. \n\nIn the 21st century there has been a renewed spike in interest in the work of Bernard Buffet. With some successful exhibitions in France and throughout the world. In 2016, British author Nicholas Foulkes published \"Bernard Buffet: The Invention of the Modern Mega-Artist'', in which he offers a controversial biographical account of Buffet's life and work. \n\nIn recent years, his children, as well as grandchildren, UK resident Timothé (b. 1995), Taïmour (b. 2000), Manon and Manolo, have been actively working towards promoting the work of Bernard Buffet.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15014497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15014497", "title": "Black Dahlia suspects", "text": "Black Dahlia suspects\n\nMany Black Dahlia suspects, or persons of interest, have been proposed as the unidentified killer of Elizabeth Short, nicknamed the \"Black Dahlia\", who was murdered in 1947. Many theories have been advanced, but none have been found to be completely persuasive by experts, and some are not taken seriously at all.\n\nThe murder investigation by the Los Angeles Police Department was the largest since the murder of Marion Parker in 1927, and involved hundreds of officers borrowed from other law enforcement agencies. Sensational and sometimes inaccurate press coverage, as well as the nature of the crime, focused intense public attention on the case. As the case continues to command public attention, many more people have been proposed as Short's killer, much like London's \"Jack the Ripper\" murders.\n\nBecause of the complexity of the case, the original investigators treated every person who knew Elizabeth Short as a suspect who had to be eliminated. Hundreds of people were considered suspects and thousands were interviewed by police.\n\nAbout 60 people confessed to the murder, mostly men but including a few women. However, 25 people were considered to be viable suspects by the Los Angeles County District Attorney:\nPeople dismissed as suspects early in the investigation include Daniel S. Voorhees.\n\nWhile some of the original 25 suspects were discounted, new ones have arisen. At present the following suspects are discussed by various authors and experts:\n\nBayley was a Los Angeles surgeon who lived one block south of the vacant lot in which Short's body was found, until he left his wife in October 1946. His daughter was a friend of Short's sister Virginia, and had been the matron of honor at her wedding. When Bayley died in January 1948, his autopsy showed that he was suffering from a degenerative brain disease. After his death, his widow alleged that his mistress knew a \"terrible secret\" about Bayley and was made the main beneficiary upon his death as a result. Bayley was never a suspect in the case, but many medical doctors and others with medical training were. In secret testimony, Detective Harry Hansen, one of the original investigators, told the 1949 Los Angeles County grand jury that in his opinion the killer was a \"top medical man\" and \"a fine surgeon.\" Bayley was 67 years old at the time of the murder, had no known history of violence or criminal activity of any kind, and is not known to have met Short, even though his daughter was a friend of Short's oldest sister.\n\nWhen Larry Harnisch, a \"Los Angeles Times\" copy editor and writer, began studying the case in 1996, he eventually concluded that Bayley could be Short's killer. Although critics of Harnisch's theory question whether Bayley's mental and physical condition at the time of the murder would have been consistent with the commission of this type of crime, the original investigators' theory that the body was cut in half because the killer wasn't strong enough to move it intact partially answers this objection. Harnisch theorizes that Bayley's neurological deterioration contributed to his alleged violence against Short. Some have suggested that the secret Bayley's mistress was blackmailing him with was that he had performed abortions, then a crime. However, there is no evidence that either Bayley or his associates performed abortions. Author James Ellroy endorsed Harnisch's theory in the 2001 film \"James Ellroy's Feast of Death\".\n\nAmong Harnisch's behavioral/psychological evidence: Bayley's neurodegenerative condition was known to produce violent behavior in otherwise passive individuals; his surgical specializations included mastectomies, hysterectomies, and the surgical removal of fat; in conversation with Bayley's former receptionist, Harnisch discovered that he and his mistress would, at dinnertime, watch movies of surgeries and autopsies.\n\nIn devising his theory, Harnisch consulted retired FBI profiler John E. Douglas, who advised that the very public location of the dump site was significant, since the killer had the ability to transport the body to a more remote site, where it may not have been discovered; the site was one block away from property owned by Bayley's estranged wife Ruth. Douglas also advised that the facial lacerations indicated personal anger towards the victim: Short would often falsely tell men that she had a son who had died tragically; Bayley did, in fact, have a son who was struck by a car and killed at age 11. The deceased child's birthday was January 13; Short's body was discovered on January 15.\n\nDonald Wolfe's 2005 book \"The Black Dahlia Files:\" \"The Mob, the Mogul, and the Murder That Transfixed Los Angeles\" names Norman Chandler, publisher of the \"Los Angeles Times\" from 1945-1960, as a suspect in the murder. In a complicated scenario involving multiple perpetrators, Wolfe claims that Chandler impregnated Short while she was working as a call girl for the notorious Hollywood \"madam\" Brenda Allen, which led to her murder at the hands of gangster Bugsy Siegel. Wolfe's claim that Short was a prostitute is at odds with the Los Angeles County district attorney's files, which plainly state that she was not, as Wolfe asserts, pregnant.\n\nDillon was a 27-year-old bellhop, aspiring writer, and former mortician's assistant who became a suspect when he began writing to Los Angeles Police Department psychiatrist Dr. J. Paul De River in October 1948. Dillon was living in Florida at the time of his correspondence with De River, but had formerly lived in Los Angeles. He read a story about the case in a \"True Detective\"-style magazine in which De River was quoted, and wrote to De River regarding his theories on the case. In his correspondence, he mentioned an intense interest in sadism and sexual violence in hopes of authoring a book on the subject. Dillon offered up one of his friends, Jeff Connors, as a likely suspect. Over the course of their correspondence, De River began to believe that Connors did not exist and that Dillon had committed the murder himself.\n\nIn December 1948, Dillon agreed to meet with De River and was given the choice of one of three cities: Los Angeles; Phoenix, Arizona; or Las Vegas, Nevada. Dillon expressed reservations about Los Angeles, and chose Las Vegas instead. De River and undercover LAPD officers met Dillon in Las Vegas for a couple of days and then proceeded to drive back to California. Once there, Dillon and De River traveled to San Francisco to unsuccessfully look for Connors. When Dillon offered up intimate details about the crime, he was taken into custody by the undercover officers and transported to Los Angeles. After this happened, Dillon sailed a postcard out a hotel window with a plea for help on it; it was discovered by a passerby and turned in to local authorities.\n\nPolice soon discovered that Connors did indeed exist; his real name was Artie Lane. Lane had lived in Los Angeles at the time of the murder and was employed by Columbia Studios, a favorite hangout of Short's, as a maintenance man. However, contrary to popular belief, Dillon could not be conclusively placed in San Francisco at the time of the murder. In fact, police never could account for Dillon's whereabouts between January 9 and January 15, 1947. Dillon later filed a $100,000 claim against the City of Los Angeles, but dropped the lawsuit after it emerged he was wanted by Santa Monica police for robbery. \"Los Angeles Times\" reporter Larry Harnisch disputes this and says that Dillon did in fact receive a financial settlement from the City of Los Angeles. The incident led to a 1949 grand jury investigation of police handling of the Black Dahlia case and some other unsolved murders. The publication of the Long Beach Police \"The Rap Sheet\" said that a former member of LA's Gangster Squad investigating the case believed that Leslie Dillon was the killer and when Dillon returned to his home state of Oklahoma was able to avoid extradition to California because Dillon's relative was the governor of Oklahoma. Some speculated that Dillon's ex-wife Georgie Stevenson was related to former Illinois governor Adlai Stevenson, who contacted the Oklahoma governor on Dillon's behalf, although none of these relations have been verified.\n\nIn 2004, De River's daughter, Jacque Daniel, published a book called \"The Curse of the Black Dahlia\", in which she expressed her belief that her father had been unfairly maligned for the Dillon affair.\n\nDumais, a 29-year-old soldier stationed at Fort Dix, New Jersey, confessed to Short's murder a few weeks after it occurred. Although this \"breakthrough\" was quickly dismissed by the original investigators, the Los Angeles press covered it enthusiastically until it was revealed that Dumais had been at Fort Dix at the time of the murder. Dumais was cleared of any involvement in the crime, although he continued to claim he killed Short each time he was arrested for various offenses, well into the 1950s.\n\nHansen was a Hollywood nightclub owner at whose home Short lived, either as a paying boarder or as a guest, on several occasions between May 1946 and October 1946. Hansen's girlfriend Ann Toth shared a room with Short in this house, which was near Hansen's nightclub. Short called Hansen from San Diego on January 8, making him one of the last people known to have spoken to her. The Los Angeles County District Attorney's files indicate that Hansen made contradictory statements to authorities about the nature of this conversation. An address book embossed with Hansen's name was among Short's belongings mailed to the \"Los Angeles Examiner\" after her murder by someone claiming to be the killer. The address book belonged to Hansen, but he had never used it; Short had been using it as her own. The D.A.'s files also indicate that Hansen had tried to seduce Short but was rebuffed. He was one of the first serious suspects in the case and he was still a prime suspect as late as 1951. Hansen was also linked to three other suspects, each of whom was a medical doctor: Dr. Patrick S. O'Reilly, Dr. M. M. Schwartz, and Dr. Arthur McGinnis Faught. Buz Williams, a retired detective with the Long Beach Police Department, wrote an article for the LBPD newsletter \"The Rap Sheet\" in 2000 on Elizabeth Short's murder. Williams' father Richard F. Williams and his friend Con Keller were both members of LA's Gangster Squad investigating the case. Keller believed Mark Hansen was the killer and said Hansen was Swedish and had spent some time at Sweden's Medical Surgical School (Hansen was actually born in Denmark) which would explain the precise dissection of Short's body. Keller also said that Hansen held elaborate parties at his Hollywood boarding house and members of the Los Angeles Police Department along with the Chief of Detectives Thad Brown and his brother Finis Brown attended and later aided Hansen in a cover up. Williams mentioned that Hansen owned a Ford Lincoln-Mercury car lot on Hollywood Boulevard and his LAPD friends were later coincidentally driving around town in brand new Lincoln cars.\n\nHansen died of natural causes in 1964. No charges were ever brought against him. He had no criminal record and no known history of violence. LAPD Police Chief William Worton told the Los Angeles Examiner that there was absolutely no case against Hansen. Hansen's great granddaughter Helen Alexis Yonov was interviewed for Piu Eatwell's upcoming documentary on the Black Dahlia for NBC Peacock Productions. Popular accounts of the Black Dahlia case often portray Hansen as having connections to organized crime, but there is no evidence of this.\n\nDr. George Hill Hodel, Jr. came under police scrutiny in October 1949, when his 14-year-old daughter, Tamar, accused him of molesting her. Despite three witnesses testifying that they had seen Hodel having sex with Tamar, he was acquitted in December 1949. The trial led the LAPD to include Hodel, a physician specializing in sexually transmitted diseases, among its many suspects in the Dahlia case. Police put Hodel under surveillance from February 18 to March 27, 1950, to ascertain whether he could be implicated in the murder. In the surviving transcripts of microphone recordings, Hodel was heard making highly incriminating statements.\n\nThe secretary referred to was Ruth Spaulding, who police had previously suspected of being murdered by Hodel in 1945. He was present when Spaulding overdosed and had burnt some of her papers before police were called. The case was dropped owing to lack of evidence, but documents were later found that indicated Spaulding was about to publicly accuse Hodel of intentionally misdiagnosing patients and billing them for laboratory tests, medical treatment, and prescriptions not needed. Hodel's son, former LAPD homicide detective Steve Hodel, believes Short may have been one of his father's patients.\n\nIn the final report to the grand jury, dated February 20, 1951, Lt. Frank Jemison of the Los Angeles County D.A.'s office wrote:\n\nDoctor George Hodel, M.D. 5121 Fountain [Franklin] Avenue, at the time of this murder had a clinic at East First Street near Alameda. Lillian DeNorak [Lenorak] who lived with this doctor said he spent some time around the Biltmore Hotel and identified the photo of victim Short as a photo of one of the doctor's girl friends. Tamar Hodel, fifteen-year-old daughter, stated that her mother, Dorothy Hodel, has told her that her father had been out all night on a party the night of the murder and said, \"They'll never be able to prove I did that murder.\" Two microphones were placed in this suspect's home (see the log and recordings made over approximately three weeks time which tend to prove his innocence. See statement of Dorothy Hodel, former wife). Informant Lillian DeNorak [Lenorak] has been committed to the State Mental Institution at Camarillo. Joe Barrett, a roomer at the Hodel residence cooperated as an informant. A photograph of the suspect in the nude with a nude identified colored model was secured from his personal effects. Undersigned identified this model as Mattie Comfort, 3423½ South Arlington, Republic 4953. She said that she was with Doctor Hodel sometime prior to the murder and that she knew nothing about his being associated with the victim. Rudolph Walthers, known to have been acquainted with victim and also with suspect Hodel, claimed he had not seen victim in the presence of Hodel and did not believe that the doctor had ever met the victim. The following acquaintances of Hodel were questioned and none were able to connect the suspect with murder: Fred Sexton, 1020 White Knoll Drive; Nita Moladero, 1617½ North Normandy [Normandie]; Ellen Taylor 5121 Fountain Avenue; Finlay Thomas, 616½ South Normandy [Normandie]; Mildred B. Colby, 4029 Vista Del Monte Street, Sherman Oaks, this witness was a girlfriend of Charles Smith, abortionist friend of Hodel, Turin Gilkey, 1025 North Wilcox; Irene Summerset, 1236¼ North Edgemont; Norman Beckett, 1025 North Wilcox; Ethel Kane, 1033 North Wilcox; Annette Chase, 1039 North Wilcox; Dorothy Royer, 1636 North Beverly Glenn. See supplemental reports, long sheets and hear recordings, all of which tend to eliminate this suspect.\n\nThe report, from which the above excerpt was taken, was submitted at the completion of the D.A.'s investigation of Hodel and at least 21 other suspects.\n\nIn 2003, Steve Hodel published a book, \"Black Dahlia Avenger; A Genius for Murder,\" in which he claimed his father, who died in 1999, had murdered Short and was responsible for other unsolved killings over two decades. Steve had seen two pictures in his father's photo album that he claims resemble Short, although her family insists they are not of her and many other observers have failed to see the resemblance. Since beginning his investigation, Steve located and identified one of the photographic subjects as a former friend of George Hodel. The other photograph remains unidentified. Steve claims he was unaware at the time that his father had been a suspect, although his sister Tamar was friends with Janice Knowlton, author of her own book, \"Daddy Was The Black Dahlia Killer\", and case documents make it clear that Steve's parents and many of their associates knew George Hodel was a suspect. After reviewing the information presented in Steve's book, Head Deputy D.A. Stephen Kay proclaimed the case solved, but others have noted that he had formed this conclusion by treating Steve's many disputed assertions as established fact. Detective Brian Carr, the LAPD officer in charge of the Black Dahlia case at the time of Steve's briefing, said in a televised interview that he was baffled by Kay's response. In a September 2006 television interview, Carr added, \"I don't have the time to either prove or disprove Hodel's investigation. I am too busy working on active cases.\" In 2009, Hodel published \"Most Evil: Avenger, Zodiac, and the Further Serial Murders of Dr. George Hill Hodel\", in which he claimed that his father was also the Zodiac Killer.\n\nAuthor James Ellroy endorsed Steve Hodel's theory in 2004, but has since refused to discuss the case publicly. Steve Hodel maintains a website wherein he continues to update the case with additional discovered information.\n\nLittle reliable information is available on George Knowlton, except that he lived in the Los Angeles area at the time of the Black Dahlia murder and died in an automobile accident in 1962.\n\nIn the early 1990s, George Knowlton's daughter Janice began claiming that she had witnessed her father murdering Elizabeth Short, a claim she based largely on \"recovered memories\" that surfaced during therapy for depression after a hysterectomy. Based on these recovered memories, Knowlton published \"Daddy Was The Black Dahlia Killer\" with veteran crime writer Michael Newton in 1995. In the book, Knowlton, a former professional singer and owner of a public relations company, alleged that her father had been having an affair with Elizabeth Short and that Short was staying in a makeshift bedroom in their garage, where she suffered a miscarriage. George Knowlton allegedly murdered Short in the garage and bisected her in the sink, then forced his then ten-year-old daughter Janice to accompany him when he disposed of the body. According to Knowlton, Short was a sex worker and a procurer of children for a child trafficking ring. Knowlton claimed that a former member of the Los Angeles Sheriff's Department told her that her father was considered a suspect in the case by that agency, but this claim is unsupported by the public documents that have been released in the case. She claimed the same source told her that future LAPD chief and California politician Ed Davis and Los Angeles County District Attorney Buron Fitts were suspects in the murder as well. The \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote in 1991:\n\nLos Angeles Police Detective John P. St. John, one of the investigators who had been assigned to the case, said he has talked to Knowlton and does not believe there is a connection between the Black Dahlia murder and her father. \"We have a lot of people offering up their fathers and various relatives as the Black Dahlia killer,\" said St. John, better known as Jigsaw John. \"The things that she is saying are not consistent with the facts of the case.\n\nNevertheless, Westminster, California police took her claims seriously enough to dig up the grounds around her childhood home there, looking for evidence. They found nothing to tie George Knowlton to any crime.\n\nIn a side note to her accusations against her father, Janice Knowlton, who was a frequent contributor as to various online forums wherein the Black Dahlia case was discussed, posted an article to a Usenet group in August 1998 in which she names Dr. George Hodel (see above) as a suspect in the case. Knowlton's sister has since stated on Amazon.com's listing for \"Daddy Was The Black Dahlia Killer\" that after the publication of Knowlton's book, Tamar Hodel, daughter of George Hodel and sister of Steve Hodel, contacted Knowlton and the two women remained \"email pals for several years.\"\n\nKnowlton also made claims prefiguring those of \"Black Dahlia Files\" author Donald Wolfe. In 1999, she claimed in various public forums that Norman Chandler participated in a coverup of the murder. Knowlton claimed that on Halloween 1946, she was sold at the age of nine as a child prostitute to a Pasadena satanic sex cult. She frequently alleged that she was sexually abused by a long list of dead movie stars and other notables, including Norman Chandler, Gene Autry (whose name she continually misspelled as Autrey), Arthur Freed, and Walt Disney.\n\nKnowlton became somewhat infamous within online Black Dahlia discussion communities for her insistence that the LAPD was engaged in a conspiracy to discredit her story in order to conceal their knowledge of George Knowlton's involvement. She was so abusive in her Usenet posts that Pacific Bell canceled her account in 1999. On March 5, 2004, Janice Knowlton died of an overdose of prescription drugs in what was deemed a suicide by the Orange County, California, coroner's office.\n\nIn 2009, Newton wrote that Janice Knowlton's relatives confirmed her father George was capable of violent abuse and further reported of his \"boasts of [having committed] unprosecuted homicides\". However, Newton also admitted that Janice's allegations against her father were entirely circumstantial and lacked substantial corroboration.\n\nThe last person seen with Elizabeth Short before her disappearance, Manley was the LAPD's top suspect in the first few days after the killing. After two polygraph tests and a sworn alibi, Manley was set free. He also identified Short's handbag purse and one of her shoes after they were discovered in a trashcan on January 25, 1947, several miles from the murder scene. Manley, who had been discharged from the army for mental disability, subsequently suffered a series of nervous breakdowns and claimed to be hearing voices. As a result, he was committed to Patton State Hospital by his wife in 1954. He died on January 16, 1986. The coroner attributed his death to an accidental fall.\n\nAccording to Los Angeles district attorney files, Dr. Patrick O'Reilly was a medical doctor who knew Short through nightclub owner Mark Hansen. According to the files, at the time of the murder O'Reilly was a good friend of Hansen and frequented Hansen's nightclub. Files also state that O'Reilly \"attended sex parties at Malibu\" with Hansen. O'Reilly had a history of sexually motivated violent crime. He had been convicted of assault with a deadly weapon for \"taking his secretary to a motel and sadistically beating her almost to death apparently for no other reason than to satisfy his sexual desires without intercourse,\" the files state. Further, the files indicate that O'Reilly's right pectoral had been surgically removed, which investigators found similar to the mutilation of Short's body. The files indicate that O'Reilly had once been married to the daughter of an LAPD captain.\n\nWilson was a lifelong petty criminal and alcoholic who was interviewed by author John Gilmore while Gilmore was researching his book \"Severed\". After Wilson's death, Gilmore named Wilson as a suspect owing to his alleged acquaintance with Short. Prior to Wilson's death, however, Gilmore made an entirely different claim to the \"Los Angeles Herald-Examiner\" in a story appearing January 17, 1982. While \"Severed\" says that homicide Detective John St. John was about to \"close in\" on Wilson based on the material Gilmore provided, St. John told the \"Herald-Examiner\" in the same article that he was busy with other killings and would review Gilmore's claims when he got time. As reliable sources of information about the case, such as the FBI files and portions of the Los Angeles district attorney files, have become publicly available, statements about Short and the murder attributed to Wilson in \"Severed\" and supposedly tying him to the crime have not been borne out as accurate. \"Severed\" also claims Wilson was involved in the murder of Georgette Bauerdorf. \"Severed\" and many other sources based on \"Severed\" erroneously claim that Short and Bauerdorf knew each other in Los Angeles, supposedly because they were both hostesses at the same nightclub. In reality, by the time Short arrived in Los Angeles in 1946, Bauerdorf had been dead for two years and the nightclub had been closed for a year. Wilson was never a suspect until Gilmore brought him to the attention of authorities.\n\nWilson figures in Donald Wolfe's book \"The Mob, The Mogul, And The Murder That Transfixed Los Angeles\". Wolfe hypothesizes that Wilson was present at Short's murder and claims a connection between Wilson and gangster Bugsy Siegel through some small-time gangsters Wilson supposedly associated with. He was also a member of the military.\n\nAlthough the vast majority of suspects in the case were male, authorities did not rule out the possibility of a female killer. One theory held that, because Short had checked her baggage, including her clothing and cosmetics, a week before she died, she must have been staying with another woman (who presumably would have lent Short the essentials) during the intervening time. Another theory was that the assailant bisected Short's body because he or she was not strong enough to move it in one piece. One of the first people to confess to the murder was a WAC sergeant stationed in San Diego. Authorities took the confession seriously enough to investigate and found it groundless. Another suspect is referred to simply as \"Queer Woman Surgeon\" in the Los Angeles district attorney's files on the case. Newspaper stories at the time implied that Short was a lesbian or bisexual, but the district attorney files state bluntly that Short \"had no use for queers.\"\n\nFolk singer Woody Guthrie was one of the many suspects in the murder, according to the Los Angeles County district attorney's files and \"Ramblin' Man: The Life and Times of Woody Guthrie\" written by Ed Cray and published in 2004 by W.W. Norton. According to Cray, Guthrie drew police attention because of some sexually explicit letters and tabloid clippings he sent to a Northern California woman who he was allegedly stalking. The mailings disturbed the recipient so much that she showed them to her sister in Los Angeles, who contacted the police. Guthrie was quickly cleared of involvement in the murder, but various authorities attempted to prosecute him, with minor success, on charges related to sending prohibited materials through the mail.\n\nIn her 1999 book, Mary Pacios, a former neighbor of the Short family in Medford, Massachusetts, suggested filmmaker Orson Welles as a suspect. Pacios bases this theory on such factors as Welles's volatile temperament and his creation of mannequins three months before Short's death that supposedly featured lacerations virtually identical to those inflicted on Short. The mannequins were used in the \"house of mirrors\" set for \"The Lady from Shanghai\", a film Welles was making with his ex-wife Rita Hayworth around the time of the murder. The scenes containing the set were deleted from the film by Harry Cohn. In one of Short's last letters home, her older sister Virginia claimed she had written that a movie director was going to give her a screen test.\n\nPacios also cites Welles' familiarity with the site where the body was found and the magic act he performed to entertain soldiers during World War II. She believes that the bisection of the body was part of the killer's signature and an acting out of the perpetrator's obsession. Welles applied for his passport on January 24, 1947, the same day the killer mailed a packet to Los Angeles newspapers. Welles left the country for an extended stay in Europe 10 months after the murder without completing the editing of \"Macbeth\", the film he was both directing and starring in. Despite persistent attempts by Republic Pictures to get him to return to complete the film, he refused. According to Pacios, witnesses she had interviewed state that Welles and the victim both frequented Brittingham's restaurant in Los Angeles during the same time period and waitresses believed Short was going out with someone at Columbia Pictures. Welles was never a suspect in the investigation.\n\nLos Angeles Jewish mobster Benjamin \"Bugsy\" Siegel was allegedly a suspect in the murder investigation of Short. The reason why he was a suspect is unclear, especially since Siegel was more concerned with the Flamingo Hotel and Casino at the time and he was known to be a \"lady's man\" not a \"lady's killer.\" Also, Siegel was involved with Chicago Outfit starlet, and his on-off girlfriend Virginia Hill. Still, according to Don Wolfe's book \"The Black Dahlia Files: The Mob, the Mogul, and the Murder That Transfixed Los Angeles,\" Siegel was the actual murderer. It has also been surmised that if Siegel had any involvement with the Dahlia murder, he would have sent Mickey Cohen or one of his other henchmen. Yet another theory was that Siegel may have been attempted to be framed by Jack Dragna who wanted revenge for Siegel's attacks on Dragna's business interests since his arrival in the 1930s.\n\n"}
{"id": "42325761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42325761", "title": "Charles Lambart, 1st Earl of Cavan", "text": "Charles Lambart, 1st Earl of Cavan\n\nCharles Lambart, 1st Earl of Cavan (c. March 1600 – 25 June 1660) was an Anglo-Irish Royalist soldier and peer.\n\nLambart was the son of Oliver Lambart, 1st Baron Lambart and Hester Fleetwood. He served as the Member of Parliament for Bossiney in Cornwall in 1626, and again between 1628 and 1629. He had succeeded to his father's barony on 10 June 1618 but as this was a title in the Peerage of Ireland, he was not secluded from sitting in the House of Commons of England. Lambart was Seneschal of Cavan and of Kells in 1627 and made a member of the Privy Council of Ireland.\n\nFollowing the Irish Rebellion of 1641, he raised a regiment of 1,000 foot guards against the Roman Catholic rebels. He was subsequently the commander of the forces guarding Dublin on behalf of Charles I in 1642. On 15 April 1647, Lambart was created Earl of Cavan and Viscount Kilcoursie in the Peerage of Ireland, in recognition of his loyalty to the Royalist cause.\n\nLambart married Hon. Jane Robartes, the daughter of Richard Robartes, 1st Baron Robartes, and sister of John Robartes, 1st Earl of Radnor, in 1625. Together they had three children. He was succeeded in his titles by his eldest son, Richard.\n"}
{"id": "46466345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46466345", "title": "Chris Conrad (author)", "text": "Chris Conrad (author)\n\nChris Conrad (born March 10, 1953) is an American author, activist, curator, publisher and court-recognized expert in cannabis cultivation and use. He has played a key role in the shaping of the modern industrial and medical cannabis reform movements as the author of such seminal books as \"Hemp: Lifeline to the Future\" (1993) and \"Hemp for Health\" (1997), as well as through his activist work as the co-founder and first President of the Hemp Industries Association (HIA), founder of the Business Alliance in Commerce and Hemp (BACH), and a signature gathering coordinator for the Proposition 215 volunteer effort which made California the first US state to legalize the medical use of cannabis. The December, 1999 issue of \"High Times\" ranked Conrad #10 on its list of top 25 \"living legends in the battle for legal cannabis.\"\n\nConrad's writing career began when he designed and edited a revised edition of the hemp prohibition classic \"The Emperor Wears No Clothes\" by Jack Herer in 1990. He followed this with the publication of \"Hemp: Lifeline to the Future\" (1993), which was subsequently translated into Italian, and \"Hemp for Health\" (1997), which was subsequently translated into Spanish, Portuguese, Czech and German. He is also the author of \"Cannabis Yields and Dosages\" (2004) and \"Nostradamus and the Attack on New York\".\n\nConrad has co-authored two books with collaborators Virginia Resner and his wife Mikki Norris: \"Shattered Lives: Portraits From America's Drug War\" and \"Human Rights and the US Drug War\".\n\nIn 2007, Conrad contributed a chapter on cannabis history to \"Pourquoi & Comment Cultiver Du Chanvre\" by Michka, where his writing appeared alongside contributions from other notable authors such as Jorge Cervantes, Raphael Mechoulam and Stephen Jay Gould.\n\nIn 1989, Conrad and his wife Mikki Norris co-founded the American Hemp Council, with the purpose of educating the American public on the many uses of industrial hemp and the laws against the crop in the United States.\n\nIn 1996, in the final weeks of the campaign (after the money came in and he was hired to do so), Conrad became the signature-gathering coordinator for the volunteer effort to pass California's Proposition 215, the initiative which would go on to make the state the first in the US to legalize the medical use of marijuana. He was also a vocal supporter of California's Proposition 19 in 2010, which came within four points of making California the first state to legalize all adult uses of cannabis.\n\nConrad has also been active in the movement to legalize industrial hemp, serving as the first president of the Hemp Industries Association (HIA) and founding the Business Alliance of Commerce in Hemp (BACH).\n\nSince 2007, Conrad has taught at Oaksterdam University's Oakland, California campus, where he teaches the history and politics of cannabis.\n\nIn 1993 and 2000, Conrad curated and designed the Hash-Marijuana-Hemp Museum in Amsterdam, The Netherlands. \nIn 1995, Conrad and his wife Mikki Norris partnered with Virginia Resner to create and curate the \"Human Rights '95: Atrocities of the Drug War\" photo exhibit to put a human face on non-violent prisoners of the Drug War and to show how the Drug War operates through their stories. Launched at the Fort Mason Center in San Francisco on June 24, 1995 for the 50th Anniversary the United Nations, the exhibit was put in context of the UN's Declaration on Human Rights. The grand opening presented a program called, \"Give Drug Peace a Chance,\" that included Ram Dass, Paul Krassner, Jello Biafra, Ngaio Bealum, New Riders of the Purple Sage, and Terence Hallinan. They toured with this exhibit for many years, creating smaller excerpted displays that were shown at libraries, universities, conferences, and events under the name \"Human Rights and the Drug War.\"\nFrom 2011 to the present, Conrad has curated the Oaksterdam Cannabis Museum in Oakland, California.\n\nIn 2014, Conrad and his wife Mikki Norris were jointly awarded the Seattle Hempfest Outstanding Cannabis Activist Award in recognition of their writing and advocacy work.\n\nIn 2010, Conrad was the recipient of Oaksterdam University's Lifetime Achievement Award.\n\nIn 2004, Conrad and Norris received the Outstanding Citizen Activism Award at the 2004 national NORML conference.\n\nIn 2001, Conrad and Norris received the Drug Policy Alliance's Robert C. Randall Award for Achievement in the Field of Citizen Action, along with collaborator Virginia Resner, Randy Credico of the William Moses Kunstler Fund for Racial Justice and Nora Callahan of the November Coalition.\n"}
{"id": "19335880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19335880", "title": "Cleomenes the Cynic", "text": "Cleomenes the Cynic\n\nCleomenes (; ; fl. c. 300 BCE) was a Cynic philosopher. He was a pupil of Crates of Thebes, and is said to have taught Timarchus of Alexandria and Echecles of Ephesus, the latter of whom would go on to teach Menedemus.\n\nHe wrote a work on \"Pedagogues\" () from which Diogenes Laërtius has preserved an anecdote concerning Diogenes of Sinope:\nCleomenes in his work on \"Pedagogues\" says that Diogenes' friends wanted to ransom him, for which he called them simpletons, for, he said, lions are not the slaves of those who feed them, but rather those who feed them are at the mercy of the lions, Fear, he added, is the mark of the slave, whereas wild beasts make human beings afraid of them.\nThe importance of this anecdote is that it is an early reference to the story of Diogenes being captured by pirates and being sold into slavery, lending credence to the idea that the story may well be true.\n"}
{"id": "1206881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1206881", "title": "De Selby", "text": "De Selby\n\n\"De Selby\" (spelled \"de Selby\" in \"The Third Policeman\" and \"De Selby\" in \"The Dalkey Archive\") is a fictional character originally created by Flann O'Brien for his novel \"The Third Policeman\" in which the nameless narrator intends to use the proceeds of murder and robbery to publish his commentaries on de Selby — a crackpot savant who theorizes, among other things, that the earth is actually shaped like a sausage.\n\nO’Brien’s text and footnotes mention a number of de Selby’s works including \"Golden Hours\", \"The Country Album,\" \"A Memoir of Garcia,\" \"Layman’s Atlas\" and the \"Codex\". The fictional Bassett and Hackjaw wrote biographies \"Lux Mundi: A memoir of de Selby\" and \"de Selby’s Life and Times\" both lost. Le Fournier, du Garbandier, Kraus and the Le Clerque are supposed sources of de Selby material, but their works (suiting the fiction) were lost. \n\nAs discussed in \"Irish Philosophy\" de Selby’ believed human existence was “a succession of static experiences each infinitely brief” and “a journey is a hallucination” which he demonstrated by travelling from Bath to Folkestone by means of picture postcards of the supposed route, barometric instruments, clocks and a device to regulate gaslight to simulate sunlight at various “times” of day. Another theory of de Selby’s was that mirrors held the secret to eternity, claiming a huge array of parallel mirrors allowed him to see his own face as a boy of twelve.\n\nDescribed as an eminent \"physicist, ballistician, philosopher and psychologist\", de Selby is known for his paradoxically non-scientific beliefs and personality. De Selby serves as an unseen character in \"The Third Policeman\", where he is discussed at length in references and footnotes which tenuously link his unorthodox theories and areas of research to the plot. (In one footnote, he attempts to dilute water; in another, he posits that night is caused by the accumulation of \"black air\".) O'Brien's novel \"The Dalkey Archive\" focussed on de Selby himself.\n\nDe Selby has a host of critical analyzers – the narrator among them – many of whom have deeply conflicting opinions of his esoteric thoughts. Although generally held in high regard by these people (many of whom hate each other), he is thought by many to have had regrettable lapses and is even called, by implication, a \"nincompoop\". In \"The Third Policeman\" one of de Selby's biographers is quoted as saying \"The beauty of reading a page of de Selby is that it leads one inescapably to the happy conviction that one is not, of all nincompoops, the greatest.\"\n\nIn \"The Dalkey Archive\", de Selby develops a substance (\"D.M.P.\") capable of extracting all oxygen from an airtight enclosure, thus disrupting the sequentiality of time, incidentally making it possibly to produce fine mature whiskey in a week. De Selby vows to use the substance to destroy the world in the name of God.\n\n\"de Selby\" and his commentators are frequently cited in the footnotes of Robert Anton Wilson's novel \"The Widow's Son\". Wilson later included Professor de Selby as the main character in his short story \"The Horror on Howth Hill\" where de Selby has a conversation with J. R. \"Bob\" Dobbs.\n\n"}
{"id": "8687969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8687969", "title": "Didier de Chaffoy de Courcelles", "text": "Didier de Chaffoy de Courcelles\n\nDidier R.G.G. de Chaffoy de Courcelles (born 19 November 1953 in Turnhout) is a Belgian scientist and businessman. He was Senior Vice President of Drug Discovery Europe, and Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Research & Development (J&JPRD), a division of Janssen Pharmaceutica (Beerse, Belgium), until 2008 when he left the company.\n\nDidier de Chaffoy de Courcelles went to highschool at the \"Broeders van Liefde\" in Turnhout. He obtained a Bachelor of Science degree in chemistry from the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (Leuven, Belgium). He obtained a Master of Science and a PhD of Science (D.Sc.), as well as an accreditation for teaching and research at academic institutions (G.U.O., venia legendi), from the University of Antwerp (Antwerp, Belgium).\n\nHe joined the Janssen Research Foundation in 1981, where he became \"Director of Biochemistry\", \"Senior Director of Pharmacology\", \"Vice President of Biological Research\", and \"Senior Vice President of Discovery Research\" until 2008. In addition, he was a member of the J&JPRD Board (Raritan, New Jersey, United States), the Board of Directors of Janssen Pharmaceutica (Beerse, Belgium) and the Sir James Black Foundation (London, United Kingdom). In 2009 he founded his own company \"Oto Therapeutics\" and started teaching at Hasselt University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17659587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17659587", "title": "Donald William Kerst", "text": "Donald William Kerst\n\nDonald William Kerst (November 1, 1911 – August 19, 1993) was an American physicist who worked on advanced particle accelerator concepts (accelerator physics) and plasma physics. He is most notable for his development of the betatron, a novel type of particle accelerator used to accelerate electrons.\n\nA graduate of the University of Wisconsin, Kerst developed the first betatron at the University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, where it became operational on July 15, 1940. During World War II, Kerst took a leave of absence in 1940 and 1941 to work on it with the engineering staff at General Electric, and he designed a portable betatron for inspecting dud bombs. In 1943 he joined the Manhattan Project's Los Alamos Laboratory, where he was responsible for designing and building the Water Boiler, a nuclear reactor intended to serve as a laboratory instrument.\n\nFrom 1953 to 1957 Kerst was technical director of the Midwestern Universities Research Association, where he worked on advanced particle accelerator concepts, most notably the FFAG accelerator. He was then employed at General Atomics's John Jay Hopkins Laboratory from 1957 to 1962, where he worked on the problem of plasma physics. With Tihiro Ohkawa he invented toroidal devices for containing the plasma with magnetic fields. Their devices were the first to contain plasma without the instabilities that had plagued previous designs, and the first to contain plasma for lifetimes exceeding the Bohm diffusion limit.\n\nDonald William Kerst was born in Galena, Illinois November 1, 1911, the son of Herman Samuel Kerst and Lillian E Wetz. He entered the University of Wisconsin, where he earned a Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree in 1934, and then his Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in 1937, writing his thesis on \"The Development of Electrostatic Generators in Air Pressure and Applications to Excitation Functions of Nuclear Reactions\". This involved building and testing a 2.3 MeV generator for experiments with the scattering of protons.\n\nAfter graduation, Kerst worked at General Electric Company for a year, working on the development of x-ray tubes and machines. He found this frustrating, as x-ray research required high energies that could not be produced at the time. In 1938 he accepted an offer of an instructorship at the University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, where the head of the physics department, F. Wheeler Loomis encouraged Kerst in his efforts to create a better particle accelerator. The result of these efforts was the betatron. When it became operational on July 15, 1940, Kerst became the first person to accelerate electrons using electromagnetic induction, reaching energies of 2.3 MeV.\n\nIt took longer to name the device. Colleagues suggested names such as the German \"Ausserordentlichhochgeschwindigkeitelektronenentwickelndenschwerarbeitsbeigollitron\". In December 1941 Kerst decided on \"betatron\", using the Greek letter \"beta\", which was the symbol for electrons, and \"tron\" meaning \"instrument for\". He went on to build more betatrons of increasing energy, a 20 MeV machine in 1941, an 80 MeV in 1948, and a 340 MeV machine, which was completed in 1950.\n\nThe betatron would influence all subsequent accelerators. Its success was due to a thorough understanding of the physics involved, and painstaking design of the magnets, vacuum pumps and power supply. In 1941, he teamed up with Robert Serber to provide the first theoretical analysis of the oscillations that occur in a betatron. The original 1940 machine was donated to the Smithsonian Institution in 1960.\n\nDuring World War II, Kerst took a leave of absence from the University of Illinois to work on the development of the betatron with the engineering staff at General Electric in 1940 and 1941. They designed 20 MeV and 100 MeV versions of the betatron, and he supervised the construction of the former, which he brought back to the University of Illinois with him. He also designed a portable 4 MeV betatron for inspecting dud bombs.\n\nKerst's engineering and physics background placed him near the top of the list of scientists that Robert Oppenheimer recruited for the Manhattan Project's Los Alamos Laboratory, which was set up to design the atomic bomb. In August 1943, Kerst was placed in charge of the Laboratory's P-7 Group, which was responsible for designing and building the Water Boiler, a nuclear reactor intended to serve as a laboratory instrument to test critical mass calculations and the effect of various tamper materials. Primarily drawn from Purdue University, his group included Charles P. Baker, Gerhart Friedlander, Lindsay Helmholtz, Marshall Holloway, and Raemer Schreiber. Robert F. Christy provided help with the theoretical calculations.\n\nKerst designed an aqueous homogeneous reactor in which enriched uranium in the form of soluble uranium sulfate, was dissolved in water, and surrounded by a beryllium oxide neutron reflector. It was the first reactor to employ enriched uranium as a fuel, and required most of the world's meager supply at the time. A sufficient quantity of enriched uranium arrived at Los Alamos by April 1944, and the Water Boiler commenced operation in May. By the end of June it had achieved all of its design goals.\n\nThe Los Alamos Laboratory was reorganized in August 1944 to concentrate on creating an implosion-type nuclear weapon. Studying implosion on a large scale, or even a full scale, required special diagnostic methods. As early as November 1943, Kerst suggested using a betatron employing 20 MeV gamma rays instead of x-rays to study implosion. In the August 1944 reorganization, he became joint head, with Seth Neddermeyer, of the G-5 Group, part of Robert Bacher's G (Gadget) Division specifically charged with betatron testing. Oppenheimer had the 20 MeV betatron at the University of Illinois shipped to Los Alamos, where it arrived in December. On January 15, 1945, the G-5 Group took their first betatron pictures of an implosion.\n\nKerst returned to the University of Illinois after the war. From 1953 to 1957 he was technical director of the Midwestern Universities Research Association, where he worked on advanced particle accelerator concepts, most notably the FFAG accelerator. He developed the spiral-sector focusing principle, which lies at the heart of many spiral ridge cyclotrons that are now in operation around the world. His team devised and analysed beam stacking, a process of radio frequency acceleration in fixed field machines that led to the development of the colliding beam accelerators.\n\nFrom 1957 to 1962 Kerst was employed at the General Atomics division of General Dynamics's John Jay Hopkins Laboratory for Pure and Applied Science in La Jolla, California, where he worked on plasma physics, which it was hoped was the doorway to the control of thermonuclear energy. With Tihiro Ohkawa he invented toroidal devices for containing the plasma with magnetic fields. The two completed this work at the University of Wisconsin, where Kerst was a professor from 1962 until his retirement in 1980. Their devices were the first to contain plasma without the instabilities that had plagued previous designs, and the first to contain plasma for lifetimes exceeding the Bohm diffusion limit. From 1972 to 1973 he was also chairman of the Plasma Physics Division of the American Physical Society.\n\nKerst was married to Dorothy Birkett Kerst. They had two children, a daughter, Marilyn, and a son, Stephen. After he retired, Kerst and Dorothy moved to Fort Myers, Florida. He died on August 19, 1993 at the University Hospital and Clinics in Madison, Wisconsin, from a brain tumor. He was survived by his wife and children. His papers are in the University of Illinois Archives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2207150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2207150", "title": "Emmett Brown", "text": "Emmett Brown\n\nEmmett Lathrop \"Doc\" Brown, Ph.D., is a fictional character in the \"Back to the Future trilogy\" in which he is the inventor of the first time machine, built out of a DeLorean sports car. The character is portrayed by Christopher Lloyd in all three films, as well as in the live action sequences of the . He is voiced by Dan Castellaneta in the animated series. The character's appearance and mannerisms are loosely inspired by Leopold Stokowski and Albert Einstein. In 2008, Dr. Emmett Brown was selected by \"Empire\" magazine as one of \"The 100 Greatest Movie Characters of All Time\", ranking at #20.\n\nEmmett refers to himself as \"a student of all sciences\" and is depicted as a talented inventor. His homes in 1985, 1955, and 1885 are shown to contain various labor-saving gadgets.\n\nHe appears to be heavily influenced by scientists of previous eras, naming successive pet dogs Copernicus and Einstein, and having portraits of Isaac Newton, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Edison and Albert Einstein in his laboratory. His favorite author is Jules Verne and his family name was originally \"von Braun\" before World War I.\n\nEmmett's family moved to Hill Valley from Germany in 1908. Although initially wealthy because of his inheritance, he spent his entire family fortune on his time travel project. When the Brown mansion was destroyed by fire in 1962 and the property sold to developers, Doc subsequently resided in the mansion's garage. Once broke, he established a privately owned business to offer 24-hour scientific services, building ingenious devices for his customers.\n\nEmmett's work appears to be highly regarded, enough for him to win an award for his work. However, he is shown as absent-minded at times, and various statements by other characters inhabiting Hill Valley indicate that he is generally regarded as strange, eccentric, or insane. Being very loud and sprightly, he often speaks with wide-eyed expressions and broad gestures (\"Great Scott!\" being one of his well-known catchphrases) and tends to be overly verbose in his delivery, referring in one case to a school dance as a \"rhythmic ceremonial ritual\".\n\nDoc and Marty met several years prior to the events of the first time travel experiment when Marty, out of curiosity, sneaked into Doc's lab after being warned by his parents to stay away from him. Happy to be revered as 'cool', Doc hired Marty as his part-time lab assistant.\n\nIn the original timeline, in contrast with Marty's shy and unassertive father, George McFly, Doc is a supportive and open-minded mentor for Marty. Doc's positive influence in turn allows Marty to mentor George in 1955, which appears to encourage George's later success as a novelist, and help him become a better husband and father. One line in particular, \"If you put your mind to it, you can accomplish anything,\" originates from Doc. Marty repeats it to George in 1955, who repeats it back to Marty in the post time travel 1985.\n\nDoc has been involved with illegal and criminal enterprises (albeit as a means to obtain items for his inventions he could not purchase legally) but he is naive and care-free about the consequences of his actions. He excitedly tells Marty how he cheated Libyan terrorists out of stolen plutonium: \"They wanted me to build them a bomb, so I took their plutonium and, in turn, gave them a shoddy bomb casing full of used pinball machine parts!\"\n\nDespite being intelligent and logical for the most part, Doc is somewhat naive at times about the unknown possible uses of his time machine, initially actively explores the course of the world's future and tries to alter the past or future of the principal characters to improve their lives. However, events lead him to conclude that time travel is too dangerous for humankind. His conviction initially strengthened when he realizes that he has unwittingly altered history by preventing the death of Clara Clayton in 1885; he concludes that the time machine has \"caused nothing but disaster\" and asks Marty to destroy it once he returns to his own time. Nonetheless, Doc pursues a romantic relationship with Clara despite the risks of further disrupting the timeline.\n\nHowever, after having been left behind in 1885 when Marty departs in the DeLorean for 1985, Doc starts a family with Clara; the couple have two sons, Jules and Verne. He eventually builds another time machine out of a steam locomotive, and the Browns return to 1985 in order to pick up Einstein before setting out for another adventure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47053169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47053169", "title": "Endesha Ida Mae Holland", "text": "Endesha Ida Mae Holland\n\nEndesha Ida Mae Holland (August 29, 1944 – January 25, 2006) was an American scholar, playwright, and civil rights activist.\n\nBorn in Greenwood, Mississippi, Holland never knew her father and was raped at age eleven. Later she was expelled from school and became a prostitute.\n\nUpon hearing that members of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) had come to Greenwood, Holland sought out one of the male members in hopes of soliciting him for prostitution. The man, however, led her directly to the committee's office hoping to convince her to become involved. On witnessing the office operations, Holland found herself deeply impressed by the sight of African-Americans conducting themselves in such a businesslike manner and she began volunteering there.\n\nHolland's mother adamantly opposed her involvement with the SNCC, fearing reprisals from members of Greenwood's white community. In 1965 a fire broke out in the family's home, killing Holland's mother; Holland said afterward that she believed the Ku Klux Klan had indeed firebombed the house in retaliation for her civil rights work. In all, she was jailed thirteen times for her civil rights work. She got a high school equivalency diploma, encouraged by her colleagues in the civil rights movement. She studied at the University of Minnesota beginning that year, where she helped start an African-American studies department, and initiated Women Helping Offenders (WHO), a prison-aid program.\n\nIn 1979 she earned a bachelor's degree in African-American studies from the University of Minnesota, followed by a master's in American Studies in 1984 and a PhD. in American studies in 1986.\n\nIn 1981 she was awarded the $1,000 National Lorraine Hansberry Award for the second-best play of 1981. In 1983, she took Endesha as her first name in order to honor her African heritage. She taught at the State University of New York, Buffalo from 1985 to 1993. She was a professor of theater at the University of Southern California, retiring in 2003. She died from complications of ataxia.\n\nShe was the author of six plays, and was most famous for writing \"From the Mississippi Delta\", which was performed by the Negro Ensemble Company at the Goodman Theater in Chicago and at the Young Vic in London. She also wrote a memoir of the same name, published by Simon & Schuster in 1997.\n\nA 1998 short documentary, \"Dr. Endesha Ida Mae Holland\", was made about her. She was interviewed as part of the 1994 feature documentary film \"Freedom on My Mind\".\n\nHolland was married three times, each union ended in divorce.\n\n"}
{"id": "32382735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32382735", "title": "Eva Dickson", "text": "Eva Dickson\n\nEva Dickson (Steninge Slott, Sigtuna, 8 March 1905 – Baghdad, Iraq, March 1938), born Eva Lindström, was a Swedish explorer, rally driver, aviator and travel writer. She was the first woman to have crossed the Sahara desert by car. She was perhaps the first female rally driver in Sweden (1925), and the third Swedish female aviator (1923).\n\nEva Dickson was the daughter of the wealthy Albert Lindström, who managed stud farms for horse breeding, and his wife Maria. In 1925 she married the rally driver Olof Dickson, great-grandson of James Dickson, but they divorced in 1932 as he didn't agree to her travels. Her travels attracted great attention, and she published several travel guides and descriptions of her experiences. She financed her travels by making bets with various wealthy society people.\n\nIn 1932 she met Baron Bror von Blixen-Finecke – the former spouse of \"Out of Africa\" author, Karen Blixen. They met in Kenya and soon became lovers. After her meeting with Blixen in 1932, she took a bet and drove by car from Nairobi to Stockholm in 1932, thus becoming the first woman to have crossed the Sahara by car.\n\nIn 1934 she was back in Kenya with Bror Blixen, where she participated in various scientific expeditions. The following year they both travelled to Ethiopia, where she covered the Abyssinia Crisis as a war correspondent for \"The Weekly Journal\", a Swedish newspaper. They left Ethiopia on mules, on a 2,000 kilometre trip back to Kenya.\n\nIn 1936, the couple married in New York City and spent their honeymoon sailing around Cuba and the Bahamas with friends Ernest Hemingway and Martha Gellhorn. The trip ended with the couple visiting Hemingway at his hometown of Key West.\n\nOn 3 June 1937, she started a car trip from Stockholm to Beijing via the Silk Road. To become the first person to drive the Silk Road had long been her big dream, and something she wanted to do before settling down with Bror in Kenya. Driving without any companions, the trip took her through Germany, Poland, Romania, Turkey, Syria and Iran. After having reached Afghanistan, she was advised to detour via India, as her intended route was regarded too dangerous for a lone woman. When she reached Calcutta, she was taken ill and treated with a cure of arsenic in a hospital, which worsened her condition.\n\nWhile in Calcutta she realised that she was running out of money. She also learned the news of the Second Sino-Japanese war and realised that her planned route to China was now impossible and she had to give up her plans to reach Beijing. Although weak after her hospital spell, she decided to drive back to Europe. When she reached Baghdad in Iraq in March 1938, her trip had been going on for nine months. After a dinner one evening outside Baghdad at some friends' house, she was driving back to her hotel, but lost control over the car in a steep curve and crashed. She died immediately. Her husband, Bror von Blixen, was immediately telegraphed about her death, but he was out on a safari and didn't get the telegram until he came back to Nairobi on 28 July 1938. By then her body had already been transported to Stockholm, where she was buried on 22 April 1938.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5478853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5478853", "title": "Ewuare", "text": "Ewuare\n\nOba Ewuare (also Ewuare the Great or Ewuare I,a great king) was the king of the Benin Empire from 1440 until 1473. Ewuare became king in a violent coup against his brother Uwaifiokun which destroyed much of Benin City. After the war, Ewuare rebuilt much of the city of Benin, reformed political structures in the kingdom, greatly expanded the territory of the kingdom, and fostered the arts and festivals. He left a significant legacy and is often considered the first King of the Benin Empire.\n\nPrior to Ewuare, the Oba of Benin was limited in their power and authority by the \"uzama\", a group of hereditary chieftains throughout the kingdom. The \"uzama\" were able to appoint the Oba of Benin upon the death of an Oba and could limit any efforts by the Oba.\n\nThe rise of Ewuare to a position of power is chronicled by various different oral folktales and his lineage and specifics of his rise are disputed. The general tale starts with Ewuare being born as the eldest son to Ohen. At this point, Ewuare was known by the name Prince Ogun. A controversy arose upon the death of Ohun when the \"uzama\" appointed his younger brother Uwaifaikon as the Oba and exiled Prince Ogun. Ogun then traveled widely throughout the region during his exile vising many different kingdoms. A.F.C. Ryder contends that it is possible that Ewuare was an outside military leader and that the lineage story was created to establish legitimacy of his rule. Local historian Jacob Egharevba, in contrast, says that after the death of Orobiru, both Ogun and Uwaifaikon were banished from the city, but then Uwaifaikon was able to return, lied to the uzama, and was named king.\n\nOne popular oral history contends that while Prince Ogun was exiled he performed a favor for a jungle spirit and as a result got a magic bag, called \"Agbavboko\". Agbavboko had the magical qualities that no matter what Ogun put into the bag, it had more space and whenever he reached in he could pull out whatever he desired. During his travels, he gathered significant magical and herbal knowledge from a variety of sources. At one point, he felt the need to sleep under the sacred \"uloko\" tree and the tree told him to return to Benin City and reclaim the throne. On his way back to the city, he removed an infected thorn from a lion's paw and the lion gave him a magic Talisman which he could use to create any situation in the world he desired. He arrived in Benin City surprised to find a parade for his brother Uwaifaikon while the people were in destitute circumstances. Prince Ogun used the talisman to set large parts of the city on fire. He then reached into \"Agbavboko\" and pulled out a bow with a poison arrow which he then used to assassinate Uwaifaikon. In the confusion that ensued, he hid with a slave, named Edo, that had taken care of him when he was young and who recognized him immediately in the chaos. Supporters of Uwaifaikon entered Edo's house and killed him trying to find Ohun who had hidden. Ogun then exited the house and gathered his supporters and was able to assert his right to the throne. In Egharevba's version, during a visit to the city during his exile, Ogun was taken in by a prominent chief who hid him in a dried well but then went to tell the authorities. The head slave of the chief, named Edo, let down a ladder into the well and advised Ewuare to escape.\n\nOgun then took the name Ewuare meaning \"the trouble has ceased\". Eventually, the honorific \"Ogidigan\" (the Great) was appended and he is often known as Ewuare Ogidigan or Ewuare the Great. The date for his rise to the throne is not precisely clear but is usually dated to 1440. To honor the slave that had sacrificed his life to save his, Ewuare also renamed the city to Edo (now Benin City).\n\nEwuare is often considered a key state-reformer and crucial in many aspects of state formation in the Benin empire. He consolidated the power of the Oba, changed lineage procedures, and created an administrative structure for the Empire. In addition, he greatly expanded the empire and took over a significant territory.\n\nA major administrative development undertaken by Ewuare was reducing the power of the \"uzama\" chiefs which were a limiting force on the Oba. Ewuare removed their ability to appoint the Oba and instead adopted a clear succession going to the first-born son. In adopting this primogeniture lineage system, the authority of the \"uzama\" was greatly decreased. In addition, to clarify the situation, Ewuare developed the \"Edaiken\" title for the oldest son to clearly establish the lineage. One oral history dates this development to a situation in the city of Uselu. The chief of Uselu, Iken, had become an ally to Ewuare. At one point, another city was revolting against Ewuare's rule and Iken mobilized an army to end the revolt. Because he did not have anyone to rule Uselu, Ewuare sent his oldest son Kuoboyuwa to serve in the town until the war was over. Iken died in the fighting and since he had no heir, Kuoboyuwa became the ruler. This incident created a clear succession to the oldest son of the king with the title \"Edaiken\" derived from the incident.\n\nEwuare also created two additional layers of administration in towns and villages with the creation of the \"Eghabho n'ore\" (town chiefs) and \"Eghabho n'ogbe\" (palace chiefs). These acted as administrative arms, directly appointed and accountable to the Oba, who would collect tribute, deal with legal issues, and generally take part of the affairs of state. To foster this, Ewuare encouraged the freeborn population to work in the palace for small wages as part of these different orders.\n\nIn addition, Ewuare was successful at taking over a number of cities and towns in the region for expanding the empire. He personally led the army against many of the Edo communities, living west of the Niger river, and key Yoruba settlements like Akure and Owo. In towns that he took over, he quickly replaced the ruling elite with chiefs of his administrative system who were his allies. Oral history recount 201 victories by Ewuare over the various cities and towns creating a large empire centered in Edo.\n\nThe capital city of the empire was rebuilt during Ewuare with significant redesign. Around Benin City (then Edo), Ewuare built significant walls and moats, large boulevards within the city, and clearly divided zones for different craft work. Archeological evidence has found that the walls built around the palace and the city, and even out into the country, were significant constructions taking multiple years to complete. In addition, he rebuilt the palace and created a clear division between it and the rest of the capital city. The division was further emphasized through the introduction by Ewuare of scarification for freeborn citizens to differentiate them from the slave population. Egharevba establishes a different source of the scarification that developed in the Kingdom. Oral histories used by Egharevba suggest that during his reign, his oldest son Kuoboyuwa (the ruler of Iken) and his second son Ezuwarha (who had become the ruler of Iyowa). The two brothers became rivals and ended up poisoning each other causing Ewuare to go into significant mourning. In his sorrow, Ewuare passed a law prohibiting sex in the kingdom for three years which resulted in many members of the kingdom migrating to other areas. Ewuare overturned the law but because few migrants returned, he told all neighboring states to refuse to give entry to his citizens and developed the scarification practice to allow clear identification of their citizens.\n\nEwuare was the Oba of the Benin empire when the Portuguese explorer Ruy de Sequeira arrived in 1472. It is unclear whether he went into the city, but contacts between the Portuguese and the Oba were initiated. This established limited trade between the two empires, to be expanded greatly starting in the 1480s.\n\nEwuare greatly expanded the arts in Benin during his reign and was aided greatly in this through increased trade. Ewuare is generally credited with expanding ivory and wood carving in the empire and the creation of Bronze heads for shrines to deceased Obas. In addition, Ewuare began many of the royal decoration traditions involving coral.\n\nIn both folktales and artistic representations, Ewuare is considered someone with significant magical powers. His herbal and magical knowledge is attested to in a number of significant art work from the era. Crucial in this is the creation during Ewuare of the Igue festival, which was originally celebrated as a festival to renew his magical powers. One oral history says that the date of the Igue festival was set initially to the marriage between Ewuare and a wife named Ewere. He is also said to have founded the Ugie Erha Ọba festival which honored the Obas.\n\nDetails about his death are not generally known but Egharevba says that he was buried at Esi, near the town of Edo (Benin City). His first remaining son, Ezoti, died from assassination and his second son, Olua, ruled for a short period and was replaced when the \"uzama\" revolted. His third son, Ozolua became Oba around 1483 and ruled until 1514. The royal lineage from Ewuare would continue for multiple generations.\n"}
{"id": "8477703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8477703", "title": "Franz Joseph Emil Fischer", "text": "Franz Joseph Emil Fischer\n\nFranz Joseph Emil Fischer (19 March 1877 in Freiburg im Breisgau – 1 December 1947 in Munich) was a German chemist. He was founder and first director of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Coal Research. He is known for the discovery of the Fischer-Tropsch process.\n\nIn 1925 He and Hans Tropsch discovered the Fischer-Tropsch process, that allow to produce liquid hydrocarbons from carbon monoxide and hydrogen with metal catalyst at temperatures of 150–300 °C (302–572 °F).\n\nIn 1930 He and Hans Schrader developed the Fischer Assay, a standardized laboratory test for determining the oil yield from oil shale to be expected from a conventional shale oil extraction. He also worked with Wilhelm Ostwald and Hermann Emil Fischer. In 1913 he became Director of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Coal Research in Mülheim.\n"}
{"id": "2315069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315069", "title": "Herbert M. Shelton", "text": "Herbert M. Shelton\n\nHerbert McGolfin Shelton (October 6, 1895 – January 1, 1985) was an American naturopath, alternative medicine advocate, author, pacifist, vegetarian, and a supporter of rawism and fasting. Shelton was nominated by the American Vegetarian Party to run as its candidate for President of the United States in 1956. He saw himself as the champion of original natural hygiene ideas from the 1830s. His ideas have been described as quackery by critics.\n\nShelton was born on October 6, 1895 in Wylie, Texas to Thomas Mitchell Shelton and Mary Frances Gutherie Shelton, who were devoted Christians. As a child, Shelton took an interest in animals, especially their habits when sick as compared to when well. He was especially intrigued by their fasting when the farm animals became sick.\n\nShelton attended Bernarr Macfadden's College of Physcultopathy in Chicago and interned at Crane's Sanatorium in Elmhurst, Illinois. He also attended Lindlahr College of Natural Therapeutics for post-graduate work and served at Lindlahr's and Sahler's Sanatoriums. Shelton later continued post-graduate work at Peerless College of Chiropractic in Illinois and served an internship at Crandall Health School in Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 1921, he married Ida Pape, studied at the American School of Chiropractic, and graduated from the American School of Naturopathy with a Doctor of Naturopathic Medicine. Shelton claimed that cooking food denatures it, and that a healthy body has the ability to restore itself from illness without medical intervention. Although heavily criticized by his contemporaries for advocating fasting over medical treatment, Shelton's work served as an early influence for the raw food movement.\n\nIn 1922, Shelton self-published his first book, \"Fundamentals of Nature Cure.\" Seeing importance in the Hygienic Movement (created in 1832 by Dr. Isaac Jennings and Sylvester Graham), he changed the title of this first book to \"An Introduction to Natural Hygiene.\" \n\nA pacifist, Shelton was jailed in 1917 for making an anti-draft statement in public during the height of World War I.\n\nIn 1927, Shelton was arrested, jailed, and fined three times for practicing medicine without a license. These arrests continued periodically through the next three decades. Shelton was jailed repeatedly for practicing medicine without a license. He was found guilty of violating the Medical Practice Act in 1932, and served 30 days on Rikers Island.\n\nIn 1942, Shelton was charged with negligent homicide and \"treating and offering to treat a human being without a state medical license\" for starving a patient to death. The case was never tried and the charges were later dropped.\n\nIn 1978, another patient died at one of his schools, this time of an apparent heart attack. After a two-year-long court battle, Shelton lost the lawsuit for negligence and was bankrupted by the judgment. His school was forced to close as a result.\n\nBy 1972, at the age of 77, Shelton became bedridden from a degenerative neuro-muscular disease believed to be Parkinson's disease. He died thirteen years later, unable to improve his own health despite many attempts. His peers were shocked to see him unable to walk, speak normally, or write.\n\nTowards the end of his life, Shelton continued his involvement in Dr. Shelton's Health School. In the time that the school was in operation, over 40,000 people were treated for various ailments, with most recovering with the help of water fasting. The school operated for 53 years, closing in 1981.\n\nIn 1989, four years after his death, a biography of Shelton called \"Yours for Health: The Life and Times of Herbert M. Shelton,\" was published by Jean A. Oswald.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "418741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=418741", "title": "Howard Coble", "text": "Howard Coble\n\nJohn Howard Coble (March 18, 1931 – November 3, 2015) was a U.S. Representative for , serving from 1985 to 2015. He was a member of the Republican Party. The district includes all or portions of ten counties in the northern-central part of the state, including portions of Greensboro and Durham.\n\nCoble was born in Greensboro, North Carolina, the son of Johnnie E. (Holt) and Joseph Howard Coble. After high school, he initially attended Appalachian State University, but after a year joined the United States Coast Guard, serving for over 5 years and staying on as a reservist for an additional 18 years. Upon discharging from military service, he attended Guilford College, from which he received a history degree. He was a member of the Epsilon Iota Chapter of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity at The University of North Carolina at Greensboro. Coble then moved on to the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and earned a degree in law.\n\nAfter graduating from college, Coble first worked as an insurance agent. He then spent nearly 20 years as a practicing attorney, and he was also Secretary of Revenue under North Carolina Governor James Holshouser. In 1979, Coble was elected to the North Carolina House of Representatives, serving until his election to Congress.\n\nCoble was first elected to Congress in 1984, narrowly defeating Walter Cockerham in the primary 51%–49%. In the general election, he defeated one-term Democratic incumbent Robin Britt 51%–49%. Coble was likely the beneficiary of long coattails from Ronald Reagan, who carried the district by a nearly 2-to-1 margin. In 1986, he defeated Britt in a rematch, which was an even closer 50.03%–49.97% and Coble won by only 79 votes (closest margin of victory that year). He would never face another contest nearly that close, and would be reelected 13 more times with 61% or more of the vote. In July 2008, Coble won the Republican primary unopposed and became North Carolina's longest-serving Republican U.S. congressman, surpassing former U.S. Congressman Jim Broyhill (who was also elected to 12 terms but left the House in July 1986 to fill a vacant U.S. Senate seat). Coble announced in 2013 that he would not run for another term in 2014, and would retire after 30 years in Congress.\n\nIn the 105th United States Congress Coble moved to suspend the rules and pass the NET Act on November 4, 1997, which removed the requirement of financial gain for criminal prosecution of copyright violation. The NET Act was passed only after the House suspended the rules.\n\nCoble was a strong supporter of agriculture and had voted in favor of bills to protect agriculture. Coble opposed further regulation of tobacco because he believed it would hurt North Carolina tobacco planters.\n\nCoble took a hard-line position on illegal drugs, and co-sponsored a resolution to oppose the legalization and use of medical marijuana. He also voted for an amendment to authorize drug testing on federal employees. However, he authored a resolution to celebrate the passage of Twenty-first Amendment, which repealed the Prohibition of alcoholic beverages in the United States. Coble was also a member of the Tea Party Caucus, joining Sue Myrick and Walter B. Jones as the sole members of the North Carolina Congressional delegation to join the group.\n\nCoble pledged not to receive any pension from the United States government. He told CBS \"Up to the Minute\", \"I figured taxpayers pay my salary – not a bad salary, and I figure that's sufficient. Let me fend for myself after the salary's collected.\" He also stated to CBS, \"I've pledged my assurance I won't take the pension. That's between my constituents and me. As far as convicted felons, I guess that's between their constituents and themselves.\" He was one of two Congressmen, with Ron Paul, to have pledged to decline his pension.\n\nHowever, during the government shutdown in October 2013. Coble said that although 800,000 federal workers are furloughed and not receiving a paycheck, he will still collect his salary due to a requirement of law. Coble was one of the 87 Republicans who voted for the bill to end the shutdown on October 16.\n\nIn June 2013, Coble announced introduction of new legislation to reform the congressional pension program. Coble refused to participate in the congressional pension program, stating that reforming congressional pensions was long overdue and that the bill would lengthen the time of service required before a member would be eligible for participation in the pension program.\n\nThe bill To extend the Undetectable Firearms Act of 1988 for 10 years (H.R. 3626; 113th Congress) was introduced in the House on December 2, 2013 by Coble. The bill would extend the Undetectable Firearms Act of 1988 for an additional 10 years, but would not expand any of its provisions (related to plastic guns). The bill passed the House on December 3, 2013.\n\n\n\nAs a young man, Coble frequently enjoyed eating a breakfast of Rose brand pork brains in milk gravy and eggs. According to a quote from Coble appearing alongside his family recipe for \"Breakfast Brains N' Eggs,\" the breakfast was \"fairly regular\" and \"not at all unusual\".\n\nCoble was a member of the Guilford College Board of Visitors and of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy Board of Visitors.\n\nHe was a Freemason and member of Guilford Lodge number 656 in Greensboro.\n\nCoble had skin cancer for many years among other ailments. He was admitted to intensive care in September 2015 after complications from skin cancer surgery. He died in hospital on November 3, 2015, in Greensboro, North Carolina at the age of 84 from complications of the surgery.\n\nCoble's death was followed one week later by the passing of a Democratic former colleague, Tim Valentine of North Carolina's 2nd congressional district.\n\n! Year\n! Republican\n! Votes\n!\n! Democratic\n! Votes\n!\n! Third Party\n! Party\n! Votes\n!\n! Third Party\n! Party\n! Votes\n!\n\n"}
{"id": "310343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310343", "title": "Imperio Argentina", "text": "Imperio Argentina\n\nMaría Magdalena Nile del Río (26 December 1910 – 22 August 2003) was an Argentine professional singer and movie actress, better known as Imperio Argentina; she became a citizen of Spain in 1999.\n\nMaría Magdalena Nile del Río was born to Antonio Nile (a guitar player, born in Gibraltar) and Rosario del Río (a native of Monda in the Province of Málaga). She performed onstage in her native Argentina, where she had a long and successful career. At that time, her stage name was \"Pettit Imperio\". But her most successful moments came after she moved to Spain. It was there that she changed her name to \"Imperio Argentina\", as a way to honor her \"other country\". While in Spain, del Río participated in many movies, and she participated frequently in television and radio. She obtained Spanish citizenship in 1999.\n\nIn January 2003, she suffered an angina attack and was admitted to the University Hospital of Malaga. She died in Benalmádena in the Province of Málaga (her mother was born and raised in the same province) in August 2003, aged 92. She had two children. Her son, Florián Antonio Martínez Nile, by her marriage to Florián Rey, predeceased her, having committed suicide at age 24 in 1959. Her younger child was her daughter, Alejandra Goyanes Nile, by another marriage. She was married twice. As a divorcee, she could not, in Francoist Spain, legally marry Joaquín Goyanes, the father of her daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "29543142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29543142", "title": "Indies Monument", "text": "Indies Monument\n\nThe Indies Monument () is a memorial in The Hague in memory of all Dutch citizens and soldiers killed during World War II as a result of the Japanese occupation (1941–1945). It is dedicated to all who died in battle, in prison camps or during forced labor. As stated in the mission statement of the 15 August 1945 Commemoration Foundation, it is also:\n\nA place where you can pass on to your children the part of your childhood spent in the Dutch East Indies\n\nThe monument is unique, due to the fact that earth from the seven war cemeteries in Indonesia has been placed in an urn mounted on a small column at the front of the monument. In fall 2008 a second urn, with earth from the Galala Tantui war cemetery on Ambon Island, was placed behind the column.\n\nBefore the commemoration ceremony each year, the Dutch ambassador to Indonesia lays a wreath at the Menteng Pulo war cemetery on Java in cooperation with the Foundation. Once every five years (in 2010 and 2015), in coordination with the Dutch embassies and the Dutch War Graves Foundation, wreaths are also laid at all other war cemeteries in Indonesia, Australia and Southeast Asia where Dutch victims of war are buried.\nIn addition to this monument a commemoration site in Bronbeek, Arnhem was established in 2010.\n\nDesigned by Jaroslawa Dankowa, the monument was unveiled on August 15, 1988 by Queen Beatrix. It consists of 17 bronze sculptures, a map of Southeast Asia and the inscription, \"The spirit conquers\". Its design was chosen in 1986 by the Mayor of Amsterdam (a former government official in the Dutch East Indies) and the Deputy Mayor of Amsterdam (a former resistance fighter). The commission for the design stated:\n\nRecognition through a representation of the struggle and the conquest. The humiliation, the repression, hardship, pain and despair. But also the hope, perseverance, courage and solidarity. Acknowledgement through a portrayal of our understanding today of the causes, the circumstances and consequences of that suffering.\n\nIt took the Netherlands 43 years to erect a national monument to its war victims in the Dutch East Indies. Until 1961, the National Remembrance of the Dead Day (May 4) and Liberation Day (May 5) were primarily dedicated to the Dutch victims of Nazi Germany. Since 1962, they include soldiers and civilians fallen during the Indonesian National Revolution.\n\nMemorial Day at the Indies Monument is August 15, the date of the Japanese surrender. Unlike May 5 (the date of the German capitulation), it is not a public holiday in the Netherlands.\n\nIn the years following the transfer of sovereignty of the Dutch East Indies to Indonesia (1949) the political climate in the Netherlands was marked by sensitivity in relation to Indonesia and a sense of shame about the Netherlands' colonial past. As a result it took a long time before there was any interest in the war victims of the former Dutch East Indies colony.\n\nThree years after the monument was unveiled, Japanese Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu laid a decorative garland at the monument on July 19, 1991 during his state visit. Later that day, the wreath was thrown into the water by a Dutch Indo demonstrator. Prime Minister Ruud Lubbers expressed his regret about the incident to Kaifu, which led to further angry reactions from Indo survivors of the Japanese occupation.\n\nTo mark the 60th anniversary of the Japanese surrender on July 27, 2005 a smaller version of the monument was unveiled in Madurodam, a miniature park created in memory of the Antillian World War II hero George Maduro.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11487320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11487320", "title": "Isaac Lumbroso", "text": "Isaac Lumbroso\n\nIsaac Lumbroso (died 1752) was a chief rabbi of Tunis and rabbinical author.\n\nHe was prominent in Tunisian Jewry, being judge of the community about 1710, an epoch coinciding with the schism which divided the Jews of the city into two camps, native Tunisians and Gournis or Italians. Lumbroso was appointed rabbinical judge of the latter; and, being a man of means, he filled at the same time the position of receiver of taxes to the \"bey\", as well as that of \"Qaid\" or official representative of his community.\n\nFrom a literary point of view, Lumbroso, who was one of the most brilliant pupils of Rabbi Ẓemaḥ Ẓarfati, was the most important among the Tunisian rabbis of the eighteenth century. He encouraged and generously assisted his fellow rabbis; and his reputation as a Talmudist and Kabbalist survived him.\n\nLumbroso was the author of \"Zera' Yiẓḥaḳ,\" published posthumously at Tunis in 1768. This work is a commentary on the different sections of the Talmud. Several funeral orations, pronounced by Lumbroso on diverse occasions, are appended thereto.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2771144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2771144", "title": "James McGowen", "text": "James McGowen\n\nJames Sinclair Taylor McGowen (16 August 1855 – 7 April 1922) was an Australian politician and the first Labor Premier of New South Wales from 21 October 1910 to 30 June 1913.\n\nMcGowen was the son of James McGowen, a boilermaker, and his wife Eliza Ditchfield, immigrants from Lancashire and was born at sea, on the \"Western Bride\", on the way to Melbourne. His father worked building in bridges, initially in Victoria, and later in New South Wales. After limited schooling he was apprenticed as a boiler maker in 1870. He became a member of the United Society of Boilermakers and Iron Shipbuilders of New South Wales on its establishment in 1873,\nhe became secretary in 1874. He entered the railways department and in 1888 was elected president of the executive of Trades Hall committee. He worked hard and successfully to raise funds to build the Trades Hall at Sydney.\n\nIn 1891, the New South Wales Trades and Labour Council established the Labor Electoral League, which developed into Labor Party, and McGowen stood for election to the New South Wales Legislative Assembly seat of Redfern and was one of 35 Labor candidates to win and the most experienced unionist. He held the seat continuously to 1917.\n\nWhile the Australian Labor Party eventually became the most disciplined in the world, the first Labor parliamentarians were almost as independent as their fellow parliamentarians. McGowen was one of three to sign the \"pledge\" to abide by party discipline. As a result of his increasingly skillfulness as a parliamentarian and his relative seniority he became Labor's parliamentary leader in 1894. After the 1898 election George Reid's Protectionist Government was dependent on Labor to push through New South Wales' adoption of Federation. McGowen's support for Federation was critical to Labor maintaining its support for the adoption of measures to implement Federation, even though it remained opposed to the Constitution adopted, which it saw as biased in favour of business interests. McGowen stood for the Federal seat of South Sydney in 1901, but was narrowly defeated.\n\nMcGowen's honesty and judiciousness were reassuring the public and were a major factor in Labor's 1910 election win. While he was Premier from to 1913, he was not an effective director of the parliamentary party, which he left to his deputy, William Holman. As well as Premier, he was also Colonial Treasurer during most of 1911 and Colonial Secretary from December 1911, both important portfolios. In 1913, while Holman was in England, he attempted to settle a gas workers' strike by threatening to replace them with non-union labour. This alienated the party and Holman deposed him as leader on his return in June 1913. McGowen became Minister for Labour and Industry until January 1914.\n\nIn regards to social reform, the new state Labor government carried out an active policy of subsidising hospitals and dispensaries in order to bring about the realisation of universal health care system. However, opposition by doctors to state control forced the government to concentrate on financing new and existing institutions, such as nursing services for remote bush districts, while Friendly Societies were subsidised and membership encouraged. As a result of the state Labour government's efforts, improved low-cost medical services were made widely available throughout New South Wales. In addition, public works were expanded, and important educational reforms were enacted, together with reforms in electoral law, income tax, arbitration, and housing for workers.\n\nThree of his sons served in World War I, including one killed at Gallipoli in 1915 and he was a strong supporter of Australia's involvement in the war. The 1916 Labor conference decided to oppose conscription. McGowen disagreed and was expelled along with most of the parliamentary party.\n\nAt the 1917 election he was defeated by the official Labor candidate William McKell, but, now Nationalist, Premier Holman appointed him to the then unelected Legislative Council in July 1917.\n\nHe died of heart disease in Petersham and was survived by his wife, five of their seven sons, and two daughters. His largely attended funeral was held at St. Paul's Church, Redfern, New South Wales on 8 April 1922, and he was then buried at Rookwood Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "16935327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16935327", "title": "Jeff Roe", "text": "Jeff Roe\n\nJeff Roe (born 1972/73) is an American Republican political consultant and strategist. He is the founder and principal of Axiom Strategies, a political consulting firm located in Kansas City, Missouri, with offices in Washington, D.C. and Dallas, Texas. He formerly served as Chief of Staff, campaign manager, and longtime aide for U.S. Representative Sam Graves.\n\nKnown for his aggressive campaign techniques, Roe has earned a reputation as a \"bare-knuckle\" political operative who \"plays to win.\" Roe has been called \"the next Karl Rove\". His political consulting firm, Axiom Strategies, has won over 50 \"Pollie\" & Reed awards on its way to an \"81% win rate\".\n\nRoe has consulted for a variety of local, state, and federal political campaigns. Notable clients have included Mike Huckabee, Rick Perry and Ted Cruz. Roe was the senior strategist and campaign manager for Cruz's 2016 presidential bid.\n\nRoe is a native of Brookfield, Missouri. He grew up on his family's corn, soybean, and hog farm. Roe helped raise pigs and cattle on his family's farm. When asked how his upbringing prepared him for a career in politics, Roe said \"hog farms are a lot cleaner.\" His family did not have strong political leanings, and his childhood dream was to become a Major League Baseball umpire. Roe became an Eagle Scout before joining the Army National Guard at age 17. He served in a 155 mm Howitzer Unit in South Korea, leaving the military in 1994. He graduated from Northwest Missouri State University in 1994. He wrote conservative pieces for his college's newspaper. He currently lives with his wife and daughter in Kansas City, Missouri. Roe is known for chewing Red Man Golden Blend chewing tobacco.\n\nRoe's political career began in 1994, working for then-Missouri State Representative Sam Graves. Following Graves' election to the Missouri State Senate in 1994 and then the United States Congress in 2000, Roe became Graves' Chief of Staff. In 2005, Roe left his position with Graves and founded Axiom Strategies, a Republican campaign consulting firm based in Kansas City, Missouri. By 2008, Axiom Strategies had grown into a multimillion-dollar-a-year company. In addition to Axiom Strategies, Roe founded creative agency and direct mail firm Candidate Command and polling and public opinion research company Remington Research Group. Roe restructured his business model in August 2013 in order to handle an uptick in business. Axiom's internal direct mail capability was spun off into a standalone business called Candidate Command, and both the mail firm and Axiom grew by 40%. Roe also owns Capitol Franking Group, which creates franked mail for members of Congress.\n\nAfter successfully managing several elections throughout the Midwest, including helping the Republican Party take over Missouri's General Assembly for the first time in 50 years, Roe expanded Axiom Strategies' operations to a national level in 2008, opening a second office in Washington, D.C. and working for Governor Mike Huckabee's presidential campaign in 2008, as well as managing the successful election efforts of several Missouri Congressmen.\n\nIn 2006, Congressman Sam Graves' brother Todd Graves was wrongfully dismissed from his position as a U.S. Attorney. It was discovered that Todd Graves' firing was retaliation from Senator Kit Bond's office over Sam Graves' refusal to fire Roe.\n\nRoe and his consulting firm widened their national footprint in 2010, contributing to the election efforts of Congressmen Allen West (FL-22), Rick Crawford (AR-1), Kevin Yoder (KS-3), Blaine Luetkemeyer (MO-9), Sam Graves (MO-6), Billy Long (MO-7), Chuck Fleischmann (TN-3), Jo Ann Emerson (MO-8) and Senators Roy Blunt (MO), Jerry Moran (KS) and John Boozman (AR). Roe also counted a number of high-profile losing clients the same year, including Wink Harman, Jim Barnett, Bill Stouffer, and Van Tran.\n\nIn 2011, \"The Kansas City Star\" wrote that Roe had \"evolved into a mainstream player,\" citing his work to pass a Kansas City sales tax increase to create a nicer home for wild animals at the Kansas City Zoo. Democratic campaign consultant Steve Glorioso said Roe's work on behalf of the zoo tax increase \"raised Roe's stature with the civic community\" and that Roe's opponents \"probably discovered his horns have smooth, not sharp, edges.\" His staff grew from eight people in 2008 to seventeen by 2011.\n\nIn the 2012 election cycle, Axiom Strategies worked for Rick Perry's presidential campaign and for Richard Mourdock in his upset over Dick Lugar in the Indiana Senate primary. Roe also played a role in Christi Craddick's successful bid for Texas Railroad Commissioner and David Dewhurst's unsuccessful United States Senate campaign. Following the 2012 election cycle, Axiom Strategies won 20 Pollie awards, winning twice as many as their nearest competitor. Axiom was recognized for winning the most Pollies of any Republican mail firm in the United States.\n\nOther clients included the National Association of Realtors, Congressman Richard Hudson (NC-8) and Congresswoman Ann Wagner (MO-2). For his role defeating Proposition B in Missouri, the closest ballot initiative in Missouri since 1992, Roe was named Missouri's \"2012 General Consultant All Star.\" He was also named one of Missouri's top 5 GOP \"Influencers\" by \"Campaigns & Elections Magazine\".\n\nIn 2013, Roe was chosen to speak at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC). Gregg Keller, at the time the executive director of the American Conservative Union, said Roe was invited to speak at the event because he was \"one of the most successful political consultants in the country.\" Roe said the speaking invitation validated a career path which he had launched by knocking on doors for political candidates.\n\nRoe was hired by Catherine Hanaway for her 2016 gubernatorial campaign in Missouri. Roe's campaign tactics have been criticized by former U.S. Senator John Danforth.\n\nRoe regularly provides commentary for news outlets and publications such as \"The Kansas City Star\", \"Washington Post\", \"Wall Street Journal\", \"Roll Call\", \"The Hill\", Fox News, \"Politico\" and radio stations such as KMBC and WPHT.\n\nIn 2014, Roe hired Travis Smith, the former chief-of-staff for Congressman Kevin Yoder. That same year, Roe was the lead consultant for Martha McSally's successful bid for Congress, in which she defeated incumbent Ron Barber by 167 votes in the closest congressional election in Arizona history. McSally's victory was the closest congressional race in the nation for 2014. Roe was also involved in Mark Walker and David Rouzer's elections to open congressional seats in North Carolina and Glenn Grothman's election to the open congressional seat in Wisconsin. He also consulted for the re-election bids of Kevin Yoder, Ann Wagner, Sam Graves, Blaine Luetkemeyer, Billy Long, Chuck Fleischmann and Jason Smith.\n\nRoe was part of the team in Bruce Rauner's successful campaign for governor in Illinois, Greg Abbott's successful campaign for governor in Texas, and Scott Walker's successful Wisconsin gubernatorial bid. In Texas State Senate races, Roe consulted for Bob Hall, who ousted 12-year incumbent Bob Deuell, and for Don Huffines, who unseated nearly 20-year incumbent John Carona. Roe was involved in five of the top ten Republican takeover seats in the country.\n\nIn 2014, Roe was hired by Ted Cruz as a political strategist. According to \"Politico\", Roe was brought on board to build out Cruz's political organization. After Cruz announced his candidacy for president on March 23, 2015, it was reported that Roe was the campaign manager and senior strategist for Cruz. In December 2015, \"U.S. News & World Report\" named Cruz's campaign \"best of the 2016 campaign in 2015.\"\n\nRoe is well known for using sophisticated polling and campaign data to make strategic decisions, including targeting phone calls and other campaign messages to hit the ideas most likely to resonate with particular voters. Political columnist Al Hunt said that if Cruz is successful, \"Roe may become a rock star in politics, on a par with Lee Atwater, James Carville, and David Plouffe.\" \"The New Republic\" called the Cruz campaign \"a vintage Jeff Roe campaign: obsessively disciplined, well-funded, laser-focused on the base\" and described Roe as \"equal parts drill sergeant, data junkie, brawler, and entrepreneur.\"\n\nOn January 24, 2016, Roe was featured on \"Fox News Sunday\" with Chris Wallace as \"Power Player of the Week\". At the opening of his interview, Roe said \"I think the rigors of democracy require us to have a real full-throated conversation about our beliefs, defend our beliefs, and point out the differences in our opponent's beliefs.\" \n\nTed Cruz's victory in the 2016 Republican Iowa caucus put Roe into the spotlight. Roe was credited as \"the architect of Cruz's first-place finish.\" MSNBC commentator Willie Geist called Roe \"the David Axelrod of Cruz's campaign\". Commenting on Roe's prediction that Cruz would win and Marco Rubio would come close to challenging Donald Trump, Geist said: \"They knew to the decimal point what their model could handle and that was almost exactly what the results were.\"\n\n\"National Review\" wrote that Roe was instrumental in the launch of Cruz's presidential campaign that defined him as the evangelical choice in the 2016 presidential election cycle, branding Cruz as \"a divinely inspired warrior fighting a two-front battle against cultural secularism and big government.\"\n\nCruz conceded defeat in the presidential race after the Indiana primary.\n\n"}
{"id": "55785646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55785646", "title": "Khiuaz Dospanova", "text": "Khiuaz Dospanova\n\nKhiuaz Kairovna Dospanova (Cyrillic: \"Хиуаз Каировна Доспанова\"; 15 May 1922 – 20 May 2008) was a Kazakh pilot who served in World War II in the 588th Night Bomber Regiment, nicknamed the \"Night Witches.\" She was the only Kazakh woman to serve in the \"Night Witches\" and, although she was not awarded the title Hero of the Soviet Union unlike many of her Russian and Ukrainian colleagues, she was awarded the title Hero of Kazakhstan in 2004 for her service after independence. \n\nBorn in Atyrau, present-day Kazakhstan, from her early childhood she dreamed of becoming a pilot. After completing secondary school she became certified as a reserve pilot. When World War II started she applied to the Zhukovsky Air Force Academy in Moscow, but her application was denied because the academy was for males only; she entered a medical institute instead in 1941. \n\nWhen she heard of the recently formed all-female aviation regiments commanded by Marina Raskova, she applied to the aviation college in Saratov. In 1942 she was placed in the 588th Night Bomber Regiment under the command of experienced pilot Yevdokia Bershanskaya, where Dospanova gained 300 flight hours in combat as a navigator and gunner, eventually reaching the rank of Senior Lieutenant .\n\nWhile landing after a mission in 1943, the Polikarpov Po-2 Dospanova and pilot Julia Paskova were flying collided with another Po-2. Both pilots in the other plane were killed in the crash and Paskova died during surgery; Dospanova was assumed to be dead after not moving for a while, but nurses eventually realized she was still alive because she was not showing signs of pallor mortis long after they assumed her to be dead, so she underwent a series of surgeries over several days. Her legs developed gangrene, but one doctor refused to amputate her legs, saying that she would need them. Dospanova had to wear casts on both of her legs for weeks and walked with a cane quite a while after the casts were removed. She returned to the regiment, but often required assistance of getting in and out the aircraft, and eventually became the regiment's head of communications after the previous head of communication, Valentina Stupina, died.\n\nShe was awarded various medals including the Order of the Red Star, Orders of the Patriotic War in 1st and 2nd class, and the title Hero of Kazakhstan. There is an ice rink named after her, as well as a school and an Embraer 190 of Air Astana; Atyrau International Airport is to be renamed in her honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "20344474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20344474", "title": "Kim Miller", "text": "Kim Miller\n\nKim Miller (born 1988) is an American artist who was diagnosed with \"classic\" autism in 1991. She began creating artwork at the age of 3 1/2 years old before she could functionally speak. At first, her artwork was just the outward articulation of an aloof, introverted, seemingly expressionless autistic child. After several years of utilizing sign language, delayed echolalia (the echoing of words and phrases), coupled with speech therapy, she learned to speak verbally as detailed in the book \"The Girl Who Spoke With Pictures\", which describes her advancement as a person with autism. Although Miller learned how to verbalize, she found it frustrating, difficult and time-consuming to communicate with words in real time. Drawing became a short cut to show her thoughts, feelings and needs.\n\nMiller is often referred to as an \"outside artist,\" outsider art self-taught and self-motivated. She is prolific in various mediums; acrylic paint, sculpting, ceramics, pencil as well as pen and ink. She is able to paint in a variety of styles exploring techniques such as pointillism, German Expressionism, or her own three-dimensional style; shifting from one painting to another as though simply changing fonts on the computer. Although some of the symptoms of autism (relating to objects rather than people, the fear of looking people in their faces, the inability to understand/process emotions) pose challenges, her unique work is outstanding for the fact that she chooses these very issues to examine and explore the complex human experience and relationships through her art.\n\n\nMiller's work is featured in the following publications:\n\nPublications regarding Miller:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17782843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17782843", "title": "Lady Gaga", "text": "Lady Gaga\n\nStefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta (born March 28, 1986), known professionally as Lady Gaga, is an American singer, songwriter, and actress. She is known for her unconventionality and provocative work, as well as visual experimentation. Gaga began performing as a teenager, singing at open mic nights and acting in school plays. She studied at Collaborative Arts Project 21, through New York University's Tisch School of the Arts, before dropping out to pursue a music career. After Def Jam Recordings canceled her contract, Gaga worked as a songwriter for Sony/ATV Music Publishing, where Akon helped her sign a joint deal with Interscope Records and his own label KonLive Distribution in 2007. She rose to prominence the following year with her debut album, the electropop record \"The Fame\", and its chart-topping singles \"Just Dance\" and \"Poker Face\". A follow-up EP, \"The Fame Monster\" (2009), featuring the singles \"Bad Romance\", \"Telephone\", and \"Alejandro\", also proved successful.\n\nGaga's second full-length album \"Born This Way\" (2011) explored electronic rock and techno-pop. The album peaked atop the US \"Billboard\" 200 and sold more than one million copies in the country during its first week. Its title track became the fastest selling song on the iTunes Store with over a million downloads in less than a week. Gaga ventured into EDM with her third studio album \"Artpop\" (2013), which reached number one in the US and included the single \"Applause\". Her collaborative jazz album with Tony Bennett, titled \"Cheek to Cheek\", and her soft rock-influenced fifth studio album, \"Joanne\" (2016), also topped the US charts. During this period, Gaga also ventured into acting, playing leading roles in the miniseries \"\" (2015–2016), for which she received a Golden Globe Award, and the musical romantic drama film \"A Star Is Born\" (2018). She also contributed to the latter's soundtrack, which made her the only woman to achieve five US number one albums in the 2010s.\n\nHaving sold 27 million albums and 146 million singles as of January 2016, Gaga is one of the best-selling music artists in history. Her achievements include several \"Guinness World Records\", six Grammys, three Brit Awards, and an award from the Songwriters Hall of Fame and the Council of Fashion Designers of America. Gaga has been declared \"Billboard\"s Artist of the Year and included among \"Forbes\"s power and earnings rankings. She was ranked at number four on VH1's Greatest Women in Music in 2012, finished second on \"Time\"s 2011 readers' poll of the most influential people of the past ten years, and was named \"Billboard\"s Woman of the Year in 2015. She is known for her philanthropy and social activism, including LGBT rights, and for her non-profit organization, the Born This Way Foundation, which focuses on promoting youth empowerment and combating bullying.\n\nStefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta was born on March 28, 1986, at the Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan, New York City, to a Catholic family with Italian and French Canadian roots. Her parents are Cynthia Louise () and Internet entrepreneur Joseph Germanotta, and she has a younger sister, Natali. Brought up in the affluent Upper West Side of Manhattan, she says that her parents came from lower-class families and worked hard for everything. From age 11, she attended the Convent of the Sacred Heart, a private, all-girls Roman Catholic school. Gaga described her academic life in high school as \"very dedicated, very studious, very disciplined\" but also \"a bit insecure\". She considered herself a misfit among her peers and was mocked for \"being either too provocative or too eccentric\".\n\nGaga began to play the piano at the age of four when her mother insisted she become \"a cultured young woman\", taking lessons and practicing the instrument throughout her childhood. The lessons taught her to create music by ear, which she preferred over reading sheet music and practiced professionally. Her parents encouraged her to pursue music, and enrolled her in Creative Arts Camp. As a teenager, she played at open mic nights. Gaga played the lead roles of Adelaide in \"Guys and Dolls\" and Philia in \"A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum\" at a nearby boys' high school. She also studied method acting at the Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute for ten years. Gaga unsuccessfully auditioned for New York shows, though appeared in a small role as a high school student in a 2001 episode of \"The Sopranos\" titled \"The Telltale Moozadell\". She later said of her inclination towards music:\n\nIn 2003, at age 17, Gaga gained early admission to Collaborative Arts Project 21—a music school at New York University (NYU)'s Tisch School of the Arts—and lived in an NYU dorm. At NYU, she studied music and improved her songwriting skills by writing essays on art, religion, social issues, and politics, including a thesis on pop artists Spencer Tunick and Damien Hirst. During the second semester of her sophomore year in 2005, she withdrew to focus on her music career. The same year, she played an unsuspecting diner customer for MTV's \"Boiling Points\", a prank reality television show.\n\nIn 2014, Gaga said she had been raped at the age of 19, for which she underwent mental and physical therapy. She has posttraumatic stress disorder that she attributes to the incident, and says that support from doctors, family, and friends has helped her.\n\nIn 2005, Gaga recorded two songs with hip-hop singer Grandmaster Melle Mel for an audio book accompanying Cricket Casey's children's novel \"The Portal in the Park\". She also formed a band called the SGBand with some friends from NYU. The band played at gigs around New York, becoming a fixture of the downtown Lower East Side club scene. After the 2006 Songwriters Hall of Fame New Songwriters Showcase at The Cutting Room in June, Gaga was recommended to music producer Rob Fusari by talent scout Wendy Starland. Fusari collaborated with Gaga, who traveled daily to New Jersey, helping to develop her songs and compose new material. The producer said they began dating in May 2006, and claimed to have been the first person to call her \"Lady Gaga\", which was derived from Queen's song \"Radio Ga Ga\". Their relationship lasted until January 2007.\n\nFusari and Gaga established a company called Team Lovechild, LLC to promote her career. They recorded and produced electropop tracks, sending them to music industry executives. Joshua Sarubin, the head of Artists and repertoire (A&R) at Def Jam Recordings, responded positively and, after approval from Sarubin's boss Antonio \"L.A.\" Reid, Gaga was signed to Def Jam in September 2006. She was dropped from the label three months later and returned to her family home for Christmas. She began performing at neo-burlesque shows, which according to her represented freedom. During this time, she met performance artist Lady Starlight, who helped mold her onstage persona. The pair began performing at downtown club venues like the Mercury Lounge, The Bitter End, and the Rockwood Music Hall. Their live performance art piece, known as \"Lady Gaga and the Starlight Revue\" and billed as \"The Ultimate Pop Burlesque Rockshow\", was a tribute to 1970s variety acts. They performed at the 2007 Lollapalooza music festival.\n\nHaving initially focused on avant-garde electronic dance music, Gaga began to incorporate pop melodies and the glam rock style of David Bowie and Queen into her songs. While Gaga and Starlight were performing, Fusari continued to develop the songs he had created with her, sending them to the producer and record executive Vincent Herbert. In November 2007, Herbert signed Gaga to his label Streamline Records, an imprint of Interscope Records, established that month. Gaga later credited Herbert as the man who discovered her. Having served as an apprentice songwriter during an internship at Famous Music Publishing, Gaga struck a music publishing deal with Sony/ATV. As a result, she was hired to write songs for Britney Spears, New Kids on the Block, Fergie, and The Pussycat Dolls. At Interscope, musician Akon was impressed with her singing abilities when she sang a reference vocal for one of his tracks in studio. Akon convinced Jimmy Iovine, chairman and CEO of Interscope Geffen A&M, to form a joint deal by having Gaga also sign with his own label KonLive, making her his \"franchise player\".\n\nIn late 2007, Gaga met with songwriter and producer RedOne. She collaborated with him in the recording studio for a week on her debut album, signing with Cherrytree Records, an Interscope imprint established by producer and songwriter Martin Kierszenbaum; she also wrote four songs with Kierszenbaum. Despite securing a record deal, she said that some radio stations found her music too \"racy\", \"dance-oriented\", and \"underground\" for the mainstream market. She stated: \"My name is Lady Gaga, I've been on the music scene for years, and I'm telling you, this is what's next.\"\n\nBy 2008, Gaga had relocated to Los Angeles to work extensively with her record label to complete her debut album, \"The Fame\", and to set up her own creative team called the Haus of Gaga, modeled on Andy Warhol's Factory. \"The Fame\" was released on August 19, 2008, reaching number one in Austria, Canada, Germany, Ireland, Switzerland, and the UK and appearing in the top five in Australia and the US. Its first two singles, \"Just Dance\" and \"Poker Face\", reached number one in the United States, Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom. The latter was also the world's best-selling single of 2009—with 9.8 million copies sold that year—and spent a record 83 weeks on \"Billboard\" magazine's Digital Songs chart. Three other singles, \"Eh, Eh (Nothing Else I Can Say)\", \"LoveGame\", and \"Paparazzi\", were released from the album; the last one reaching number one in Germany. Remixed versions of the singles from \"The Fame\" except \"Eh, Eh (Nothing Else I Can Say)\" were included in \"Hitmixes\" in August 2009. At the 52nd Annual Grammy Awards, \"The Fame\" and \"Poker Face\" won Best Dance/Electronica Album and Best Dance Recording, respectively.\nFollowing her opening act on The Pussycat Dolls' 2009 Doll Domination Tour in Europe and Oceania, Gaga headlined her worldwide The Fame Ball Tour, which ran from March to September 2009. While traveling the globe, she wrote eight songs for \"The Fame Monster\", a reissue of \"The Fame\". Those new songs were also released as a standalone EP on November 18, 2009. Its first single, \"Bad Romance\", was released one month earlier and went number one in Canada and the UK, while reaching number two in the US, Australia, and New Zealand. \"Telephone\", with Beyoncé, followed as the second single from the EP and became Gaga's fourth UK number one. Its third single was \"Alejandro\", which reached number one in Finland and attracted controversy when its music video was deemed blasphemous by the Catholic League. Both tracks also reached the top five in the US. The video for \"Bad Romance\" became the most watched on YouTube in April 2010, and Gaga became the first person with more than one billion combined views the following October. At the 2010 MTV Video Music Awards, Gaga won 8 awards from 13 nominations, including Video of the Year for \"Bad Romance\". She became the most nominated artist for a single year, and the first female to receive two nominations for Video of the Year at the same ceremony. \"The Fame Monster\" won the Grammy Award for Best Pop Vocal Album, and \"Bad Romance\" won Best Female Pop Vocal Performance and Best Short Form Music Video at the 53rd Annual Grammy Awards.\n\nIn 2009, Gaga spent a record 150 weeks on the UK Singles Chart and became the most downloaded female act in a year in the US, with 11.1 million music downloads sold—earning an entry in the \"Guinness Book of World Records\". \"The Fame\" and \"The Fame Monster\" together have since sold more than 15 million copies worldwide. This success allowed Gaga to start her second worldwide concert tour, The Monster Ball Tour, and release \"The Remix\"—her final record with Cherrytree Records and among the best-selling remix albums of all time. The Monster Ball Tour ran from November 2009 to May 2011 and grossed $227.4 million, making it the highest-grossing concert tour for a debut headlining artist. Concerts performed at Madison Square Garden in New York City were filmed for an HBO television special titled \"\". Gaga also performed songs from her albums at the 2009 Royal Variety Performance, the 52nd Annual Grammy Awards, and the 2010 BRIT Awards. Before Michael Jackson's death, Gaga was set to take part in his canceled This Is It concert series at the O Arena in the UK.\n\nDuring this era, Gaga ventured into business, collaborating with consumer electronics company Monster Cable Products to create in-ear, jewel-encrusted, headphones called Heartbeats by Lady Gaga. Gaga also partnered with Polaroid in January 2010 as their Creative Director and announced a suite of photo capturing products called Grey Label. Her collaboration with past record producer and ex-boyfriend Rob Fusari led to her production team, Mermaid Music LLC, to be sued. At this time, Gaga was tested borderline positive for lupus, but claimed not to be affected by the symptoms and hoped to maintain a healthy lifestyle.\n\nIn February 2011, Gaga released \"Born This Way\", the lead single from her studio album of the same name. The song sold more than one million copies within five days, earning the Guinness World Record for the fastest selling single on iTunes. It debuted atop the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, becoming the 1,000th number-one single in the history of the charts. Its second single \"Judas\" followed two months later, and \"The Edge of Glory\" served as its third single. Both reached the top ten in the US and the UK. Her music video for \"The Edge of Glory\", unlike her previous work, portrays her dancing on a fire escape and walking on a lonely street, without intricate choreography and back-up dancers.\n\"Born This Way\" was released on May 23, 2011, and debuted atop the \"Billboard\" 200 with first-week sales of 1.1 million copies. The album sold eight million copies worldwide and received three Grammy nominations, including Gaga's third consecutive nomination for Album of the Year. \"Born This Way\"s following singles were \"You and I\" and \"Marry the Night\", which reached numbers 6 and 29 in the US, respectively. While filming the former's music video, Gaga met and started dating actor Taylor Kinney in July 2011, who played her love interest. She also embarked on the Born This Way Ball tour in April 2012, which was scheduled to conclude the following March, but ended one month earlier when Gaga canceled the remaining dates due to a labral tear of her right hip that required surgery. While refunds for the cancellations were estimated to be worth $25 million, the tour grossed a total of $183.9 million globally.\n\nIn 2011, Gaga also worked with Tony Bennett on a jazz version of \"The Lady Is a Tramp\", with Elton John on \"Hello Hello\" for the animated feature film \"Gnomeo & Juliet\", and with The Lonely Island and Justin Timberlake on \"3-Way (The Golden Rule)\". She also performed a concert at the Sydney Town Hall in Australia that year to promote \"Born This Way\" and to celebrate former US President Bill Clinton's 65th birthday. In November, she was featured in a Thanksgiving television special titled \"A Very Gaga Thanksgiving\", which attracted 5.7 million American viewers and spawned the release of her fourth EP, \"A Very Gaga Holiday\". In 2012, Gaga guest-starred as an animated version of herself in an episode of \"The Simpsons\" called \"Lisa Goes Gaga\", appeared in the documentary films \"The Zen of Bennett\" and \"\", and released her first fragrance, Lady Gaga Fame, followed by a second one, Eau de Gaga, in 2014.\n\nGaga began work on her third studio album, \"Artpop\", in early 2012, during the Born This Way Ball tour; she crafted the album to mirror \"a night at the club\". In August 2013, Gaga released the album's lead single \"Applause\", which reached number one in Hungary, number four in the US, and number five in the UK. A lyric video for \"Artpop\" track \"Aura\" followed in October to accompany Robert Rodriguez's \"Machete Kills\", where she plays an assassin named La Chameleon. The film received generally negative reviews and earned less than half of its $33 million budget. The second \"Artpop\" single, \"Do What U Want\", featured singer R. Kelly and was released later that month, topping the charts in Hungary and reaching number 13 in the US. \"Artpop\" was released in November 2013 to mixed reviews. Helen Brown in \"The Daily Telegraph\" criticized Gaga for making another album about her fame and doubted the record's originality, but found it \"great for dancing\". The album debuted atop the \"Billboard\" 200 chart, and sold more than 2.5 million copies worldwide as of July 2014. \"G.U.Y.\" was released as the third single in March 2014 and peaked at number 76 in the US.\nGaga hosted an episode of \"Saturday Night Live\" in November 2013, performing \"Do What U Want\" (with Kelly) and an album cut, \"Gypsy\". After holding her second Thanksgiving Day television special on ABC, \"Lady Gaga and the Muppets Holiday Spectacular\", she performed a special rendition of \"Do What U Want\" with Christina Aguilera on the fifth season of the American reality talent show \"The Voice\". In March 2014, Gaga had a seven-day concert residency commemorating the last performance at New York's Roseland Ballroom before its closure. Two months later, she embarked on the tour, building on concepts from her ArtRave promotional event. Earning $83 million, the tour included cities canceled from the Born This Way Ball tour itinerary. In the meantime, Gaga split from longtime manager Troy Carter over \"creative differences\", and by June 2014, she and new manager Bobby Campbell joined Artist Nation, the artist management division of Live Nation Entertainment. She briefly appeared in Rodriguez's \"\", and was confirmed as Versace's spring-summer 2014 face with a campaign called \"Lady Gaga For Versace\".\n\nIn September 2014, Gaga released a collaborative jazz album with Tony Bennett titled \"Cheek to Cheek\". The inspiration behind the album came from her friendship with Bennett, and fascination with jazz music since her childhood. Before the album was released, it produced the singles \"Anything Goes\" and \"I Can't Give You Anything but Love\". \"Cheek to Cheek\" received generally favorable reviews; \"The Guardian\"s Caroline Sullivan praised Gaga's vocals and Howard Reich of the \"Chicago Tribune\" wrote that \"\"Cheek to Cheek\" serves up the real thing, start to finish\". The record was Gaga's third consecutive number-one album on the \"Billboard\" 200, and won a Grammy Award for Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album. The duo recorded the concert special \"\", and embarked on the Cheek to Cheek Tour from December 2014 to August 2015.\n\nIn February 2015, Gaga became engaged to Taylor Kinney. After \"Artpop\" lukewarm response, Gaga began to reinvent her image and style. According to \"Billboard\", this shift started with the release of \"Cheek to Cheek\" and the attention she received for her performance at the 87th Academy Awards, where she sang a medley of songs from \"The Sound of Music\" in a tribute to Julie Andrews. Considered one of her best performances by \"Billboard\", it triggered more than 214,000 interactions per minute globally on Facebook. She and Diane Warren co-wrote the song \"Til It Happens to You\" for the documentary \"The Hunting Ground\", which earned them the Satellite Award for Best Original Song and an Academy Award nomination in the same category. Gaga won \"Billboard\" Woman of the Year and Contemporary Icon Award at the 2015 Annual Songwriters Hall of Fame Awards.\n\nGaga had spent much of her early life wanting to be an actress, and achieved her goal when she starred in \"\". Running from October 2015 to January 2016, \"Hotel\" is the fifth season of the television anthology horror series, \"American Horror Story\", in which Gaga played a hotel owner named . At the 73rd Golden Globe Awards, Gaga received the Best Actress in a Miniseries or Television Film award for her work on the season. She appeared in Nick Knight's 2015 fashion film for Tom Ford's 2016 spring campaign and was guest editor for \"V\" fashion magazine's 99th issue in January 2016, which featured sixteen different covers. She received Editor of the Year award at the Fashion Los Angeles Awards.\nIn 2016, Gaga sang the US national anthem in February at Super Bowl 50, partnered with Intel and Nile Rodgers for a tribute performance to the late David Bowie at the 58th Annual Grammy Awards, and sang \"Til It Happens to You\" at the 88th Academy Awards, where she was introduced by Joe Biden and was accompanied on-stage by 50 people who had suffered from sexual assault. She was honored that April with the Artist Award at the Jane Ortner Education Awards by The Grammy Museum, which recognizes artists who have demonstrated passion and dedication to education through the arts. Her engagement to Taylor Kinney ended in July; she later said her career had interfered with their relationship.\n\nGaga played a witch named Scathach in \"\", the series' sixth season, which ran from September to November 2016. Her role in the fifth season of the show ultimately influenced her future music, prompting her to feature \"the art of darkness\". In September 2016, she released her fifth album's lead single, \"Perfect Illusion\", which topped the charts in France and reached number 15 in the US. The album, titled \"Joanne\", was named after Gaga's late aunt, who was an inspiration for the music. It was released on October 21, 2016, and became Gaga's fourth number-one album on the \"Billboard\" 200, making her the first woman to reach the US chart's summit four times in the 2010s. The album's second single, \"Million Reasons\", followed the next month and reached number four in the US. \"Joanne\" and \"Million Reasons\" were nominated for Grammy Awards for Best Pop Vocal Album and Best Pop Solo Performance, respectively. To promote the album, Gaga embarked on the three-date Dive Bar Tour.\n\nGaga performed as the headlining act during the Super Bowl LI halftime show on February 5, 2017. Her performance featured a group of hundreds of lighted drones forming various shapes in the sky above Houston's NRG Stadium—the first time robotic aircraft appeared in a Super Bowl program. It attracted 117.5 million viewers in the United States, exceeding the game's total of 113.3 million viewers. The performance led to a surge of 410,000 song downloads in the United States for Gaga and earned her an Emmy nomination in the Outstanding Special Class Program category. CBS Sports included her performance as the second best in the history of Super Bowl halftime shows. In April, Gaga headlined the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival. She also released a standalone-single, \"The Cure\", which reached the top 10 in Australia and France. In August, Gaga began the Joanne World Tour, which she announced after the Super Bowl LI halftime show. Gaga's creation of \"Joanne\" and preparation for her halftime show performance were featured in the documentary \"\", which premiered on Netflix in September. Throughout the film, she was seen suffering from chronic pain, which was later revealed to be the effect of a long-term condition called fibromyalgia. It resulted in Gaga canceling the last ten shows of the Joanne World Tour, which ultimately grossed $95 million from 842,000 tickets sold.\n\nIn March 2018, Gaga supported the March for Our Lives gun-control rally in Washington, D.C. and released a cover of Elton John's \"Your Song\" for his tribute album \"Revamp\". Later that year, she starred as a struggling singer named Ally in Bradley Cooper's critically acclaimed film \"A Star Is Born\", a remake of the 1937 film of the same name. The film shows Ally's relationship with singer Jackson Maine (played by Cooper), which becomes strained after her career begins to overshadow his. Gaga said she agreed to the project because she is a fan of Cooper's work, and liked the film's portrayal of addiction and depression. Cooper approached Gaga for the role after seeing her perform at a cancer research fundraiser. \"A Star Is Born\" premiered at the 75th Venice International Film Festival in August 2018, and was released worldwide in October. Peter Bradshaw of \"The Guardian\" described it as \"outrageously watchable\" and wrote that \"Gaga's ability to be part ordinary person, part extraterrestrial celebrity empress functions at the highest level\". \"Time\" Stephanie Zacharek similarly highlighted her \"knockout performance\" and found her \"charismatic\" without her usual makeup, wigs and costumes. For the role, Gaga earned a National Board of Review Award for Best Actress.\n\nGaga and Cooper co-wrote and produced most of the songs on the soundtrack for \"A Star Is Born\", which she insisted they perform live in the film. Its lead single, \"Shallow\", performed by the two, was released in September and has reached number one in Australia, Austria, Ireland, New Zealand, Sweden, Switzerland, and the UK as well as number five in the US. The soundtrack's release coincided with the film's, and it contains 34 tracks, including 19 original songs. It received generally positive reviews from critics; Mark Kennedy of \"The Washington Post\" called it a \"five-star marvel\" and Ben Beaumont-Thomas of \"The Guardian\" termed it an \"instant classics full of Gaga's emotional might\". Commercially, the soundtrack debuted at number one in the US, making Gaga the only woman with five US number one albums in the 2010s, and breaking her tie with Taylor Swift as the most for any female artist this decade. It additionally topped the charts in Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, Switzerland and the UK. Later that month, Gaga announced her engagement to talent agent Christian Carino.\n\nGaga signed a two-year residency, named Lady Gaga Enigma, to perform at the MGM Park Theater in Las Vegas, which is scheduled to begin in December 2018. She has also started working on her sixth studio album. She has been in recording studios with producers like Boys Noize, DJ White Shadow, BloodPop, and Sophie.\n\nGaga grew up listening to artists such as the Beatles, Stevie Wonder, Queen, Bruce Springsteen, Pink Floyd, Mariah Carey, the Grateful Dead, Led Zeppelin, Whitney Houston, Elton John, Blondie and Garbage, who have all influenced her music. Gaga's musical inspiration varies from dance-pop singers such as Madonna and Michael Jackson to glam rock artists such as David Bowie and Freddie Mercury, as well as the theatrics of the pop artist Andy Warhol and her own performance roots in musical theater. She has been compared to Madonna, who has said that she sees herself reflected in Gaga. Gaga says that she wants to revolutionize pop music as Madonna has. Gaga has also cited heavy metal bands as an influence, including Iron Maiden and Black Sabbath. She credits Beyoncé as a key inspiration to pursue a musical career.\n\nGaga was inspired by her mother to be interested in fashion, which she now says is a major influence and integrated with her music. Stylistically, Gaga has been compared to Leigh Bowery, Isabella Blow, and Cher; she once commented that as a child, she absorbed Cher's fashion sense and made it her own. She considers Donatella Versace her muse and the English fashion designer Alexander McQueen as an inspiration. In turn, Versace calls Lady Gaga \"the fresh Donatella\". Gaga has also been influenced by Princess Diana, whom she has admired since her childhood.\n\nGaga has called the Indian alternative medicine advocate Deepak Chopra a \"true inspiration\", and has also quoted Indian leader Osho's book \"Creativity\" on Twitter. Gaga says she was influenced by Osho's work in valuing rebellion through creativity and equality.\n\nCritics have analyzed and scrutinized Gaga's musical and performance style, as she has experimented with new ideas and images throughout her career. She says the continual reinvention is \"liberating\" herself, which she has been drawn to since childhood. Gaga is a contralto with a range spanning from B♭ to B. She has changed her vocal style regularly, and considers \"Born This Way\" \"much more vocally up to par with what I've always been capable of\". In summing up her voice, \"Entertainment Weekly\" wrote: \"There's an immense emotional intelligence behind the way she uses her voice. Almost never does she overwhelm a song with her vocal ability, recognizing instead that artistry is to be found in nuance rather than lung power.\"\n\nGaga's songs have been called \"depthless\" by writer Camille Paglia in \"The Sunday Times\", but according to Evan Sawdey of \"PopMatters\", she \"does manage to get you moving and grooving at an almost effortless pace\". Gaga believes that \"all good music can be played on a piano and still sound like a hit\". Simon Reynolds wrote in 2010, \"Everything about Gaga came from electroclash, except the music, which wasn't particularly 1980s, just ruthlessly catchy naughties pop glazed with Auto-Tune and undergirded with R&B-ish beats.\"\n\nGaga's songs have covered a wide variety of concepts; \"The Fame\" discusses the lust for stardom, while the follow-up \"The Fame Monster\" expresses fame's dark side through monster metaphors. \"The Fame\" is an electropop and dance-pop album that has influences of 1980s pop and 1990s Europop, whereas \"The Fame Monster\" displays Gaga's taste for pastiche, drawing on \"Seventies arena glam, perky ABBA disco, and sugary throwbacks like Stacey Q\". \"Born This Way\" has lyrics in English, French, German, and Spanish and features themes common to Gaga's controversial songwriting such as sex, love, religion, money, drugs, identity, liberation, sexuality, freedom, and individualism. The album explores new genres, such as electronic rock and techno.\n\nThe themes in \"Artpop\" revolve around Gaga's personal views of fame, love, sex, feminism, self-empowerment, overcoming addiction, and reactions to media scrutiny. \"Billboard\" describes \"Artpop\" as \"coherently channeling R&B, techno, disco and rock music\". With \"Cheek to Cheek\", Gaga dabbled in the jazz genre. \"Joanne\", exploring the genres of country, funk, pop, dance, rock, electronic music and folk, was influenced by her personal life. \"A Star Is Born\" contains elements of blues rock, country and bubblegum pop. \"Billboard\" says its lyrics are about wanting change, its struggle, love, romance, and bonding, describing the music as \"timeless, emotional, gritty and earnest. They sound like songs written by artists who, quite frankly, are supremely messed up but hit to the core of the listener.\"\n\nFeaturing constant costume changes and provocative visuals, Gaga's music videos are often described as short films. The video for \"Telephone\" earned Gaga the Guinness World Record for Most Product Placement in a Video. According to author Curtis Fogel, she explores bondage and sadomasochism and highlights prevalent feminist themes. The main themes of her music videos are sex, violence, and power. She calls herself \"a little bit of a feminist\" and asserts that she is \"sexually empowering women\".\n\nGaga has called herself a perfectionist when it comes to her elaborate shows. Her performances have been described as \"highly entertaining and innovative\"; the blood-spurting performance of \"Paparazzi\" at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards was described as \"eye-popping\" by MTV News. She continued the blood-soaked theme during The Monster Ball Tour, causing protests in England from family groups and fans in the aftermath of the Cumbria shootings, in which a taxi driver had killed 12 people, then himself. At the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards, Gaga appeared in drag as her male alter ego, Jo Calderone, and delivered a lovesick monologue before a performance of her song \"You and I\". As Gaga's choreographer and creative director, Laurieann Gibson provided material for her shows and videos for four years before she was replaced by her assistant Richard Jackson in 2014.\n\nPublic reception of Gaga's music, fashion sense, and persona is polarized. Because of her influence on modern culture, and her rise to global fame, sociologist Mathieu Deflem of the University of South Carolina has offered a course titled \"Lady Gaga and the Sociology of the Fame\" since early 2011 with the objective of unraveling \"some of the sociologically relevant dimensions of the fame of Lady Gaga\". When Gaga met briefly with then-president Barack Obama at a Human Rights Campaign fundraiser, he found the interaction \"intimidating\" as she was dressed in 16-inch heels, making her the tallest woman in the room. When interviewed by Barbara Walters for her annual ABC News special \"10 Most Fascinating People\" in 2009, Gaga dismissed the claim that she is intersex as an urban legend. Responding to a question on this issue, she expressed her fondness for androgyny. In a 2010 \"Sunday Times\" article, Camille Paglia called Gaga \"more an identity thief than an erotic taboo breaker, a mainstream manufactured product who claims to be singing for the freaks, the rebellious and the dispossessed when she is none of those\".\n\nGaga's outlandish fashion sense has also served as an important aspect of her character. During her early career, members of the media compared her fashion choices to those of Christina Aguilera. In 2011, 121 women gathered at the Grammy Awards dressed in costumes similar to those worn by Gaga, earning the 2011 Guinness World Record for Largest Gathering of Lady Gaga Impersonators. The Global Language Monitor named \"Lady Gaga\" as the Top Fashion Buzzword with her trademark \"no pants\" a close third. \"Entertainment Weekly\" put her outfits on its end of the decade \"best-of\" list, saying that she \"brought performance art into the mainstream\".\n\n\"Time\" placed Gaga on their All-Time 100 Fashion Icons List, stating: \"Lady Gaga is just as notorious for her outrageous style as she is for her pop hits ... [Gaga] has sported outfits made from plastic bubbles, Kermit the Frog dolls, and raw meat.\" Gaga wore a dress made of raw beef to the 2010 MTV Video Music Awards, which was supplemented by boots, a purse, and a hat also made out of raw beef. Partly awarded in recognition of the dress, \"Vogue\" named her one of the Best Dressed people of 2010 and \"Time\" named the dress the Fashion Statement of the year. It attracted the attention of worldwide media; the animal rights organization PETA found it offensive. The meat dress was displayed at the National Museum of Women in the Arts in 2012, and entered the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in September 2015.\n\nGaga's fans call her \"Mother Monster\", and she often refers to them as \"Little Monsters\", a phrase which she had tattooed on herself in dedication. In his article \"Lady Gaga Pioneered Online Fandom Culture As We Know It\" for \"Vice\", Jake Hall wrote that Gaga inspired several subsequent fan-branding, such as those of Taylor Swift, Rihanna and Justin Bieber. In July 2012, Gaga also co-founded the social networking service LittleMonsters.com, devoted to her fans. According to \"Guinness World Records\", Gaga was the most followed person on Twitter in 2011 and the most followed female pop singer in 2014; the book also named her the most powerful popstar that year. \"Forbes\" included Gaga on its Celebrity 100 from 2010 to 2015 and then in 2018 and its list of the World's Most Powerful Women from 2010 to 2014. She earned $62 million, $90 million, $52 million, $80 million, $33 million, and $59 million from 2010 through 2015 and $50 million in 2018. She was named one of the most influential people in the world by \"Time\" magazine in 2010 and ranked second in most influential people of the past ten years in a \"Time\" magazine readers' poll in 2013. In March 2012, Gaga was ranked fourth on \"Billboard\"s list of top moneymakers of 2011 with earnings of $25 million, which included sales from \"Born This Way\" and her Monster Ball Tour. The following year, she topped \"Forbes\" List of Top-Earning Celebs Under 30, and in February 2016, the magazine estimated Gaga's net worth to be $275 million.\n\nAfter declining an invitation to appear on the single \"We Are the World 25\" (because of rehearsals for her tour) to benefit victims of the 2010 Haiti earthquake, Gaga donated the proceeds of her January 2010 Radio City Music Hall concert to the country's reconstruction relief fund. All profits from her online store that day were also donated, and Gaga announced that $500,000 was collected for the fund. Hours after the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami hit Japan, Gaga tweeted a link to Japan Prayer Bracelets. All revenue from a bracelet she designed in conjunction with the company was donated to relief efforts; these raised $1.5 million. In June 2011, Gaga performed at MTV Japan's charity show in Makuhari Messe, which benefited the Japanese Red Cross.\n\nIn 2012, Gaga joined the campaign group Artists Against Fracking. That October, Yoko Ono gave Gaga and four other activists the LennonOno Grant for Peace in Reykjavík, Iceland. The following month, Gaga pledged to donate $1 million to the American Red Cross to help the victims of Hurricane Sandy. Gaga also contributes in the fight against HIV and AIDS, focusing on educating young women about the risks of the disease. In collaboration with Cyndi Lauper, Gaga joined forces with MAC Cosmetics to launch a line of lipstick under their supplementary cosmetic line, Viva Glam. Sales have raised more than $202 million to fight HIV and AIDS.\n\nIn April 2016, Gaga joined Vice President Joe Biden at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas to support Biden's It's On Us campaign as he traveled to colleges on behalf of the organization, which has seen 250,000 students from more than 530 colleges sign a pledge of solidarity and activism. Two months later, Gaga attended the 84th Annual US Conference of Mayors in Indianapolis where she joined with the Dalai Lama to talk about the power of kindness and how to make the world a more compassionate place. The Chinese government added Gaga to a list of hostile foreign forces, and Chinese websites and media organizations were ordered to stop uploading or distributing her songs. The Publicity Department of the Communist Party of China (CCPPD) also issued an order for state-controlled media to condemn this meeting.\n\nIn 2012, Gaga launched the Born This Way Foundation (BTWF), a non-profit organization that focuses on youth empowerment. It takes its name from her 2011 single and album. Media proprietor Oprah Winfrey, writer Deepak Chopra, and US Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius spoke at the foundation's inauguration at Harvard University. The foundation's original funding included $1.2 million from Gaga, $500,000 from the MacArthur Foundation, and $850,000 from Barneys New York. In July 2012, the BTWF partnered with Office Depot, which donated 25% of the sales, a minimum of $1 million of a series of limited edition back-to-school products. The foundation's initiatives have included the \"Born Brave Bus\" that followed her on tour as a youth drop-in center as an initiative against bullying.\n\nIn October 2015, at the Yale Center for Emotional Intelligence, Gaga joined 200 high school students, policy makers, and academic officials, including Peter Salovey, to discuss ways to recognize and channel emotions for positive outcomes. In 2016, the foundation partnered with Intel, Vox Media, and \"Re/code\" to fight online harassment. The sales revenue of the 99th issue of the \"V\" magazine, which featured Gaga and Kinney, was donated to the foundation. Gaga and Elton John released the clothing and accessories line Love Bravery at Macy's in May. 25% of each purchase support Gaga's foundation and the Elton John AIDS Foundation. Gaga partnered with Starbucks for a week in June 2017 with the \"Cups of Kindness\" campaign, where the company donated 25 cents from some of the beverages sold to the foundation. She also appeared in a video by Staples Inc. to raise funds for the foundation and DonorsChoose.org.\n\nOn the 2018 World Kindness Day, Gaga partnered with the foundation to bring food and relief to a Red Cross shelter for people who have been forced to evacuate homes due to the California wildfires. The foundation also partnered with Starbucks and SoulCycle to thank California firefighters for their relief work during the crisis. The singer had to previously evacuate her own home during the Woolsey Fire which spread through parts of Malibu.\n\nAs a bisexual woman, Gaga actively supports LGBT rights worldwide. She attributes much of her early success as a mainstream artist to her gay fans and is considered a gay icon. Early in her career she had difficulty getting radio airplay, and stated, \"The turning point for me was the gay community.\" She thanked FlyLife, a Manhattan-based LGBT marketing company with whom her label Interscope works, in the liner notes of \"The Fame\". One of her first televised performances was in May 2008 at the NewNowNext Awards, an awards show aired by the LGBT television network Logo.\n\nGaga spoke at the 2009 National Equality March in Washington in support of the LGBT movement. She attended the 2010 MTV Video Music Awards accompanied by four gay and lesbian former members of the United States Armed Forces who had been unable to serve openly under the US military's \"don't ask, don't tell\" policy, which banned open homosexuality in the military. Gaga urged her fans via YouTube to contact their senators in an effort to overturn the policy. In September 2010, she spoke at a Servicemembers Legal Defense Network's rally in Portland, Maine. Following this event, \"The Advocate\" named her a \"fierce advocate\" for gays and lesbians. Gaga appeared at Europride, an international event dedicated to LGBT pride, in Rome in June 2011. She criticized the poor state of gay rights in many European countries and described gay people as \"revolutionaries of love\". Gaga was ordained as a minister by the Universal Life Church Monastery so that she could officiate the wedding of two female friends.\n\nIn June 2016, during a vigil held in Los Angeles for victims of the attack at the gay nightclub Pulse in Orlando, Gaga read aloud the names of the 49 people killed in the attack, and gave a speech. Later that month, Gaga appeared in Human Rights Campaign's tribute video to the victims of the attack. She has opposed the presidency of Donald Trump and deplored his military transgender ban. She supported former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton for president in 2016. In 2018, a leaked memo from Trump's office revealed that his administration wanted to change the legal definition of sex in order to exclude transgender Americans. Gaga was one of the many celebrities to call him out and spread the #WontBeErased campaign to her 77 million Twitter followers.\n\nGaga was named the \"Queen of Pop\" in a 2011 ranking by \"Rolling Stone\" (based on record sales and social media metrics), and she ranked fourth in VH1's Greatest Women in Music in 2012. In 2012, she became a feature of a temporary exhibition \"The Elevated. From the Pharaoh to Lady Gaga\" marking the 150th anniversary of the National Museum in Warsaw.\n\nGaga has been often regarded as a trailblazer for sometimes utilizing controversy to bring attention to various issues. Because of \"The Fame\" success—it was listed as one of the 100 Greatest Debut Albums of All-Time by \"Rolling Stone\" in 2013—Gaga is acknowledged as one of the artists who propelled the rise in the popularity of synthpop in the late 2000s and early 2010s. Scott Hardy, Polaroid's CEO, has praised Gaga for inspiring her fans and for her close interactions with them on social media.\n\nAccording to Kelefa Sanneh of \"The New Yorker\", \"Lady Gaga blazed a trail for truculent pop stars by treating her own celebrity as an evolving art project.\" Including \"Born This Way\" as one of the 50 best female albums of all time, \"Rolling Stone\" Rob Sheffield considers it \"hard to remember a world where we didn't have Gaga, although we're pretty sure it was a lot more boring\". In 2015, \"Time\" also noted that Gaga had \"practically invented the current era of pop music as spectacle\". Her work has influenced artists including Miley Cyrus, Nicki Minaj, Ellie Goulding, Halsey, Nick Jonas, Sam Smith, Noah Cyrus, Katherine Langford, and MGMT.\n\nA new genus of ferns, \"Gaga\", and two species, \"G. germanotta\" and \"G. monstraparva\", have been named in her honor. The name \"monstraparva\" alluded to Gaga's fans, known as \"little monsters\", since their symbol is the outstretched \"monster claw\" hand, which resembles a tightly rolled young fern leaf prior to unfurling. Gaga also has an extinct mammal, \"Gagadon minimonstrum\", and a parasitic wasp, \"Aleiodes gaga\", named for her.\n\nGaga has won six Grammy Awards, three Brit Awards, a Golden Globe Award, thirteen MTV Video Music Awards, several Guinness World Records, and the inaugural Songwriters Hall of Fame's Contemporary Icon Award. She received a National Arts Awards' Young Artist Award, which honors individuals who have shown accomplishments and leadership early in their career, and she won the Jane Ortner Artist Award from the Grammy Museum in 2016. Gaga has also been recognized by the Council of Fashion Designers of America (CFDA) with the Fashion Icon lifetime achievement award, and was a finalist for \"The Advocate\"s Person of the Year in 2016.\n\nGaga is one of the best-selling music artists with estimated sales of 27 million albums and 146 million singles as of January 2016. Some of her singles are also among the best-selling worldwide. She has grossed more than $300 million in revenue from 3.2 million tickets for her first three worldwide concert tours. Gaga has consecutively appeared on \"Billboard\" magazine's Artists of the Year (scoring the definitive title in 2010). Named Woman of the Year in 2015, she is the eighth top digital singles artist in the US with a total of 61 million equivalent units certified according to Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). She became the first woman to receive the Digital Diamond Award certification from RIAA, is one of three artists with at least two Diamond certified songs (\"Bad Romance\" and \"Poker Face\"), and is the first and only artist to have two songs pass 7 million downloads (\"Poker Face\" and \"Just Dance\").\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46819180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46819180", "title": "List of Australian Americans", "text": "List of Australian Americans\n\nThis is a list of notable Australian Americans, including both original immigrants who obtained American citizenship and their American descendants.\n"}
{"id": "45531729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45531729", "title": "List of First Spouses of Maryland", "text": "List of First Spouses of Maryland\n\nThe spouse of the Governor of Maryland is given an honorary position, styled as First Lady or First Gentleman of the State of Maryland. To date there have been no female governors of the State of Maryland, and all First Spouses have been First Ladies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6187331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6187331", "title": "List of people diagnosed with Crohn's disease", "text": "List of people diagnosed with Crohn's disease\n\nThe following is a list of notable people diagnosed with Crohn's disease. Crohn's disease is a type of inflammatory bowel disease that may affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract from mouth to anus, causing a wide variety of symptoms. It primarily causes abdominal pain, diarrhea (which may be bloody if inflammation is at its worst), vomiting (can be continuous), or weight loss, but may also cause complications outside the gastrointestinal tract such as skin rashes, arthritis, inflammation of the eye, tiredness, and lack of concentration.\n"}
{"id": "24526983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24526983", "title": "Ma Mingxin", "text": "Ma Mingxin\n\nMa Mingxin (1719–1781) () was a Chinese Sufi master, the founder of the Jahriyya \"menhuan\" (Naqshbandi Sufi order).\nMa Mingxin's Arabic given name was Ibrāhīm. After returning to China from Arabia he started calling himself 'Azīz.\n\nHe was also called Muhammad Emin (). Followers of the Jahriyyah sometimes refer to him by the title of Wiqāyatullāh (Arabic: وقاية الله)\n\nA Chinese-speaking Muslim from Gansu,\nMa Mingxin spent 16 years studying in Mecca and Yemen. He was a disciple of a Naqshbandi Sufi teacher named 'Abd al-Khāliq, who was a son of az-Zayn b. Muhammad 'Abd al-Baqī al-Mizjaji (1643/44-1725), originally of Mizjaja near Zabīd, Yemen. Az-Zayn, in his turn, had studied in Medina under the famous Kurdish mystic Ibrahīm ibn Hasan al-Kūrānī (1616–1690), who was known for advocating the vocal (rather than silent) \"dhikr\" (invocation of the name of God).\n\nAfter returning to China in 1761, Ma Mingxin founded the Jahriyya \"menhuan\" (order) () - the second Naqshbandi order in China after Ma Laichi's Khufiyya. In opposition to the \"silent\" Khufiyya Sufis, and following al-Kurani's teaching, Jahriyya adherents advocated vocal \"dhikr\", which is reflected in the name of their school (from Arabic \"jahr\", \"aloud\"). Ma Mingxin also opposed the emphasis that the Khufiyya members placed of the veneration of the saints, construction of grandiose elaborately decorated mosques, and the enrichment of religious leaders at the expense of their adherents.\n\nBy the early 1780s, Ma Mingxin's Jahriyya had spread over much of the then province of Gansu (which at the time also included today's Qinghai and Ningxia), as had the late Ma Laichi's Khufiyya \"menhuan\". Theological arguments between members of the two \"menhuans\", as well as the orders' claim on members' contributions, against the background of government mismanagement of the provincial revenue, often resulted in both violent conflicts and lawsuits.\n\nThe escalating conflict between the adherents of the two movements eventually attracted attention of the Qing government in 1781. The apparent center of the conflict at the time was in the ethnic Salar community of Xunhua County (in today's Qinghai Province, just west of today's Gansu's Linxia Prefecture). Considering the Jahriyya (dubbed by the government \"The New Teaching\", in opposition to the \"Old Teaching\", i.e. the Khfiyya and the non-Sufi (\"gedimu\") Muslims) subversive, the authorities had Ma Mingxin arrested, even though he wasn't personally anywhere around Xunhua at the moment.\n\nWhile Ma Mingxin was kept in Lanzhou during the Jahriyya revolt, a government expedition sent to Xunhua to take care of the Jahriyya business was destroyed by the Jahriyya Salars, who then rushed across the today's Linxia Prefecture and to the walls of Lanzhou. When the besieged officials brought Ma Mingxin, wearing chains, to the city wall, to show him to the rebels, the Salars at once showed respect and devotion to their imprisoned leaders. Scared officials took Ma down from the wall, and beheaded him right away.\n\nMa Mingxin's widow, whose surname was Zhang (originally, from Gansu's Tongwei County), and his daughters were exiled to Xinjiang.\n\nMa Mingxin's death did not stop conflicts with China's Muslim community, or those between the Muslims and the government. Three years after the death of Ma Mingxin, his follower Tian Wu started a rebellion against the imperial government; after its defeat, the authorities remained on lookout against the spread of the \"subversive\" Jahriyya teachings.\n\nMa Mingxin's fifth generation descendant and the then leader of Jahriyya, Ma Hualong, was one of the chief leaders of the Great Northwest Hui Rebellion in Ningxia, Shaanxi, and Gansu in the 1860s.\n\nThe Jahriyya order continues to this day, even if in more covert forms. In remembrance of Ma Mingxin, whose beard was shorn by government soldiers before his execution, many Jahriyya members shave the sides of their beards.\n\nIn 1985, over 20,000 Chinese Muslims assembled at the site of Ma Mingxin's original (destroyed) tomb near Lanzhou for a commemoration ceremony. The tomb has since been rebuilt.\n\nMa Mingxin's descendant was Ma Yuanzhang.\n\nMa Shaowu was a fourth generation descendants of Ma Mingxin, and Ma Shaowu's uncle Ma Yuanzhang was also a descendent, as was Ma Shaowu's great uncle Ma Shenglin . Ma Shaowu's son Ma Cho-ya is a fifth generation descendant and he currently lives in Urumqi.\n"}
{"id": "2473975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2473975", "title": "Mangas Coloradas", "text": "Mangas Coloradas\n\nMangas Coloradas or Mangus-Colorado (La-choy Ko-kun-noste, alias \"Red Sleeve\"), or Dasoda-hae (\"He Just Sits There\") (c. 1793 – January 18, 1863) was an Apache tribal chief and a member of the Mimbreño (Tchihende) division of the Central Apaches, whose homeland stretched west from the Rio Grande to include most of what is present-day southwestern New Mexico. He was the father-in-law of the Chiricahua (Tsokanende) Chief Cochise, the Mimbreño Chief Victorio and the Mescalero (Sehende) Chief Kutu-hala or Kutbhalla (probably to be identified with Caballero), and is regarded by many historians to be one of the most important Native American leaders of the 19th century due to his fighting achievements against the Mexicans and Americans.\n\nThe name \"Mangas Coloradas\" is the reception of his Apache nickname Kan-da-zis Tlishishen (\"Red Shirt\" or \"Pink Shirt\") by the Mexicans and is Spanish for Red Sleeves. A Bedonkohe (\"Bi-dan-ku\" – 'In Front of the End People', \"Bi-da-a-naka-enda\" – 'Standing in front of the enemy') by birth he married into the Copper Mines local group of the Tchihende and became the principal chief of the whole Tchihende Apache division, including the neighboring Mimbreño local group of the Warm Springs Tchihende, directly led by the famous chief Cuchillo Negro (in Apache language Baishan), second chief of the whole Tchihende Apache division and his long-time companion.\n\nDuring the decades of the 1820s and 1830s, the Apaches' main enemy were the Mexicans, who had won their independence from Spain in 1821. By 1835, Mexico had placed a bounty on Apache scalps. After Juan José Compa, the leader of the Coppermine Mimbreño Apaches, was killed for bounty money in 1837 in the massacre at Santa Rita del Cobre, Mangas became a war leader and a chief, and, joining forces with his friend and long-time companion (and possibly brother-in-law) Cuchillo Negro (Spanish: Black Knife), began a series of retaliatory raids against the Mexicans, killing and destroying all around the mining town and placing Santa Rita under siege, finally attacking the column of fleeing Mexicans and slaughtering a large number.\nMangas Coloradas became the principal leader of the Coppermine Mimbreños, and led them for about 25 years, while Cuchillo Negro led the Warm Springs Mimbreños.\n\nIn 1846, when the United States went to war with Mexico, the Apache Nation promised U.S. soldiers safe passage through Apache lands. Once the U.S. occupied New Mexico in 1846, Mangas Coloradas signed a peace treaty, respecting them as conquerors of the hated Mexican enemy. An uneasy peace between the Apache and the United States lasted until an influx of gold miners into New Mexico's Pinos Altos Mountains led to open conflict.\n\nIn 1851 the settlement at Santa Rita del Cobre of the U.S. delegation (with General J.R. Bartlett) in the Mexican-American Border Commission, and the reopening of the Santa Rita del Cobre copper mines, effected the meeting with the Anglo-American newcomers. Mangas Coloradas, like Cuchillo Negro, Delgadito, Ponce, Coleto Amarillo and all the most important Tchihende and Ndendahe chiefs, had to face new problems. In June 1851 Mangas Coloradas, with Delgadito, Ponce and Coleto Amarillo, went to Santa Rita del Cobre to meet Bartlett, and the discussions continued until the Apaches no longer felt disappointed and betrayed by the newcomers. According to John C. Cremony's book, \"Life Among the Apaches\", in 1861, near Pinos Altos mining camp, Mangas Coloradas was attacked by a group of White miners who tied him to a tree and severely flogged him. Yet historian Edwin R. Sweeney finds issue with this claim in his biography of the chief: if it was true, probably Geronimo, who spent a great deal of time with Mangas Coloradas during the 1850s and 1860s, would have mentioned that to his biographer as a reason for the war, yet he did not. The killing of Cuchillo Negro by U.S. troops at Canyon de los Muertos Carneros in May 1857 was an even more bitter business.\n\nIn December 1860, 30 miners launched a surprise attack on an encampment of Bedonkohes on the west bank of the Mimbres River. Historian Edwin R. Sweeney reported, the miners \"... killed four Indians, wounded others, and captured thirteen women and children.\" Shortly after that, Mangas began raids against U.S. citizens and their property.\n\nMangas Coloradas' daughter Dos-Teh-Seh married Cochise, principal chief of the Tsokanende or Chiricahua Apache. In early February 1861, US Army Lieutenant George N. Bascom, investigating the \"Indian\" kidnapping of a rancher's son, apparently without orders, lured an innocent Cochise, his family and several warriors into a trap at Apache Pass, southeastern Arizona. Cochise managed to escape, but his family and warriors remained in custody. Negotiations were unsuccessful and fighting erupted.\nThis incident, known as the \"Bascom Affair\", ended with Cochise's brother and five other warriors being hanged by Bascom. Later that year, Mangas Coloradas and Cochise struck an alliance, agreeing to drive all Americans out of Apache territory. They were joined in their effort by middle-aged Delgadito and Nana, Victorio, Juh and Geronimo. Although the goal was never achieved, the White population in Apache territory was greatly reduced for a few years during the Civil War, after federal troops had been withdrawn to the east.\n\nIn the summer of 1862, after recovering from a bullet wound in the chest, Mangas Coloradas met with an intermediary to call for peace. In January 1863, he decided to meet with U.S. military leaders at Fort McLane (Apache Tejo), in southwestern New Mexico. He was promised provisions in return for peace, and he returned with his people. Mangas arrived under a flag of truce to meet with Brigadier General Joseph Rodman West, an officer of the California militia and a future Reconstruction senator from Louisiana. Armed soldiers took Mangas into custody. West gave an execution order to the sentries.\n\nThat night, Mangas was tortured, shot and killed \"escaping\". While tied on the ground, Mangas was provoked with red hot bayonets until he moved to simulate his attempt to escape.\n\nThe following day, U.S. soldiers, fascinated by the size of the Apache (Mangas was 6 feet, 6 inches tall), cut off his head, boiled it and sent the skull to Orson Squire Fowler, a phrenologist in New York City. Phrenological analysis of the skull and two sketches of it appear in Fowler's book. Daklugie, one of informants in Eve Ball's book, said the skull went to the Smithsonian Institution.\n\nHowever, the Smithsonian has done a thorough search for the skull, and reports that it never received it. Mangas' descendants and sources based on their testimony may have confused the Smithsonian with Fowler's Phrenological Cabinet in New York, where the skull was on display, leading to the misattribution. Another possible fate of the skull was that it was returned to the Apaches by the Smithsonian in a 1990 transfer, but was not individually labeled.\n\nThe murder and mutilation of Mangas' body only increased the hostility between Apaches and the United States, resulting in war continuing for nearly another 25 years.\n\n\nThe 1952 film \"Lone Star\" starring Clark Gable, featured Magnus Coloradus, played by Chief Yowlachie, among a group of Apaches, including a child named Geronimo, sitting west of the Pecos with Sam Houston.\n\nThe film \"War Drums\", was a 1957 American Western film directed by Reginald Le Borg and written by Gerald Drayson Adams. It featured Lex Barker as Mangas Coloradas, Joan Taylor and Ben Johnson. The friendship between a white man and an Apache chief is tested when they fall in love with the same woman during a time of frontier conflict.\n\nThe 2006 Australian film \"Last Train to Freo\", directed by \"Jeremy Sims\", features a tattoo of \"Red Sleeves\" on the Tall Thug's arm, played by \"Steve Le Marquand\". He then begins a short monologue, detailing the life of the Apache War Chief, in an attempt to gain the attention of Lisa, played by \"Gigi Edgley\". \n\nThe 2013 film \"Avenged\", directed by Michael Ojeda, features the vengeful ghost of Mangas Coloradas as possessing a young woman's body and wreaking vengeance upon the descendants of General Joseph Rodman West.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25553668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25553668", "title": "Marc Bekoff", "text": "Marc Bekoff\n\nMarc Bekoff (born September 6, 1945) is Professor Emeritus of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University of Colorado, Boulder. He is the co-founder, with Jane Goodall, of Ethologists for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, a fellow of the Animal Behavior Society and a former Guggenheim fellow. He lectures internationally on animal behavior, cognitive ethology (the study of animal minds), and behavioral ecology, and writes a science column about animal emotion for \"Psychology Today\".\n\nBekoff is a vegan. He is also a patron of the Captive Animals Protection Society, a charity campaigning against the exotic pet trade, and the use of non-human animals in circuses and zoos. In May 2010 he argued in an article for the Greater Good Science Center, \"Expanding Our Compassionate Footprint,\" that human beings need to abandon human exceptionalism: \"Research on animal morality is blossoming, and if we can break free of theoretical prejudices, we may come to better understand ourselves and the other animals with whom we share this planet.\"\n\nBekoff has written over 1000 articles and published 30 books, and has edited three encyclopedias. His books include the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "662835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=662835", "title": "Michael Appleby (politician)", "text": "Michael Appleby (politician)\n\nMichael Appleby is a politician, cannabis activist, and lawyer based in Wellington, New Zealand.\n\nAppleby is a human rights lawyer with a B.A. in politics and English, and an M.A. in Administrative Law, Taxation and Trusts, and Constitutional Law. He has taught Law at various universities around New Zealand and Australia.\n\nIn addition to his legal career, Appleby was the leader of the Aotearoa Legalise Cannabis Party from its foundation in 1996 until 2013. This small political party is dedicated to the relaxation or repeal of laws against the use of cannabis and has never been represented in Parliament.\n\nAppleby has stood as his party's candidate in the electorate since its inception in 1996. His best result was in the 1999 election where he gained third place, aided by the fact that most major candidates had pulled out to support either incumbent Richard Prebble or challenger Marian Hobbs. He came fifth in the 2011 election. He later represented the Aotearoa Legalise Cannabis Party in the 2013 Ikaroa-Rāwhiti by-election.\n\nAppleby stood unsuccessfully for the Wellington City Council in October 2004. He ran again for the Wellington City Council in the October 2013 local government elections, where he placed ninth in the Lambton Ward and was not elected.\n\n"}
{"id": "54507603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54507603", "title": "Muslim Arogundade", "text": "Muslim Arogundade\n\nMuslim Arogundade (born 24 June 1926) is a Nigerian sprinter. He competed in the men's 200 metres at the 1952 Summer Olympics. Arogundade finished second in the 1954 British Empire and Commonwealth Games 4×110 yards Relay (with Edward Ajado, Abdul Karim Amu, and Karim Olowu). In the 1954 British Empire and Commonwealth Games 100 yards as well as in the 220 yards Arogundade was eliminated in the heats.\n"}
{"id": "52689870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52689870", "title": "Nissae Isen", "text": "Nissae Isen\n\nNissae Isen is a voice actress who has voiced prominent young male characters in several TV series, including BG's younger brother George in \"Miss BG\" from 2005 to 2008, Yuri from \"My Big Big Friend\" from 2011 to 2014 for which she received a 2012 nomination for \"Best Performance in a Voice-Over Role\" in the 33rd Young Artist Awards for her work in 2011 episodes, and the Canadian-accented voice of Trollee (the UK-accented was done by Samantha Reynolds) as one of the principal cast members of \"Mike the Knight\", for which she received a \"Best Performance in a Voice-Over Role\" nomination in the 34th Young Artist Awards in 2013 for her work on 2012 episodes.\n\nShe has also voiced less prominent female roles, including Juanita, the Galactic Guardian younger sister of Paloma in Season 2 of \"Atomic Betty\" in 2006, Ivy from \"Miss Spider's Sunny Patch Friends\" in 2007, Will's younger sister Kate from \"Will and Dewitt\" from 2007 to 2008 and Jade Gibble from \"My Friend Rabbit\" from 2007 to 2008.\n\nMinor male roles include a little penguin from \"Harry and His Bucket Full of Dinosaurs\" and Thor Powell from \"Captain Flamingo\" in 2006.\n\nShe is the younger sister of voice actress/singer Tajja Isen and is of Trinidadian and Indigenous Canadian descent.\n"}
{"id": "54442305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54442305", "title": "Peter W. Smith", "text": "Peter W. Smith\n\nPeter W. Smith (February 23, 1936 – May 14, 2017) was an American investment banker who had a 40-year career managing corporate acquisitions and venture investments. He was active in Republican politics. In 1998, he was identified as a major financial supporter of the 1993 Troopergate story, in which several Arkansas state troopers accused U.S. President Bill Clinton of having carried out sexual dalliances while he was Governor of Arkansas. In 2017, he confirmed to \"The Wall Street Journal\" that he had tried in 2016 to contact computer hackers, including Russian hackers, in an attempt to obtain opposition research material to use against Hillary Clinton in the 2016 presidential election. Ten days after speaking to the paper, he committed suicide in a Minnesota hotel room, citing ill health.\n\nSmith earned a BS in electrical engineering from Northeastern University. He went on to earn an MBA from the University of Notre Dame.\n\nFrom 1969 to 1980 he was a senior officer at Field Enterprises, Inc. From 1975 to 1997 he was president of his own firm, Peter W. Smith & Company, specializing in buyout transactions. From 1997 to 2014 he was Managing Member of DigaComm, LLC where he primarily managed early venture investments. At the time of his death he was Chairman Emeritus of Corporate Venture Alliances, LLC.\n\nHe was national chairman of the College Young Republicans. He was a board member and officer of the Atlantic Council of the United States and was also active with the Heritage Foundation, the Center for Strategic and International Studies, and the Brookings Institution. He was a contributor and fundraiser for the Republican National Committee and GOPAC as well as individual candidates. Smith was a major donor to Newt Gingrich's GOPAC, giving over $100,000 from 1989 to 1995—a sum which made him one of GOPAC's top 20 donors.\n\nIn December 1993, two Arkansas state troopers publicly claimed that they and other troopers had been used to facilitate and conceal multiple extra-marital affairs of then-Governor Bill Clinton. The stories were published in an article by then-conservative author David Brock in the \"American Spectator\" and also in a series of articles in the \"Los Angeles Times\". Smith had arranged for the troopers to meet Brock. In February 1994 Smith started a \"Troopergate Whistle Blower Fund\" to provide support for the troopers and pay their attorney fees; the fund ultimately raised about $40,000. Altogether Smith said he spent about $80,000 on the case, including a $5,000 payment to Brock. Smith described his donations as an independent effort to encourage anti-Clinton stories in the mainstream press.\n\nSeveral emails sent by Smith to the Illinois Republican Party turned up among those hacked from party computers and posted on DCLeaks, which U.S. intelligence officials believe to be an outlet for the foreign military intelligence agency of Russia, GRU. The emails were about a 2015 congressional election.\n\nIn May 2017 Smith told the \"Wall Street Journal\" that he had been actively involved, during the 2016 presidential election campaign, in trying to obtain emails he believed had been deleted from Hillary Clinton's computer server. In that quest he contacted several known hacker groups, including some Russian groups. He claimed he was working on behalf of Trump campaign advisor Mike Flynn, but that connection has not been confirmed. He was shown some information but was not convinced it was genuine, and suggested the hackers give it to WikiLeaks instead. As part of this effort, Smith donated $150,000 to \"the Washington Scholarship Fund for the Russian students\", including $100,000 of solicited money and $50,000 from his personal funds.\n\nSmith lived in Lake Forest, Illinois. He was married to Janet; the couple had three children and three grandchildren at the time of his death.\n\nSmith died on May 14, 2017 in a hotel room in Rochester, Minnesota. He had checked into the hotel, which is near the Mayo Clinic, the day after speaking to the \"Wall Street Journal\". Nine days later he was found with a bag over his head that was attached to a helium source. Medical records list Smith's cause of death as \"asphyxiation due to displacement of oxygen in confined space with helium.\" Police discovered a suicide note by Smith that stated no foul play was involved in his committing suicide, and that he was in poor health and his life insurance policy was expiring. However, it has been reported that that insurance policy was good for 8 more years. \n\n"}
{"id": "69940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69940", "title": "Prix Goncourt", "text": "Prix Goncourt\n\nThe Prix Goncourt (, , \"The Goncourt Prize\") is a prize in French literature, given by the académie Goncourt to the author of \"the best and most imaginative prose work of the year\". Four other prizes are also awarded: prix Goncourt du Premier Roman (first novel), prix Goncourt de la Nouvelle (short story), prix Goncourt de la Poésie (poetry) and prix Goncourt de la Biographie (biography). Of the \"big six\" French literary awards, the Prix Goncourt is the best known and most prestigious. The other major literary prizes are the Grand Prix du roman de l'Académie française, the Prix Femina, the Prix Renaudot, the Prix Interallié and the Prix Médicis.\n\nEdmond de Goncourt, a successful author, critic, and publisher, bequeathed his estate for the foundation and maintenance of the académie Goncourt. In honour of his brother and collaborator, Jules Alfred Huot de Goncourt (1830–1870), the académie has awarded the Prix Goncourt every December since 1903. The jury that determines the winner meets at the \"Drouant\" restaurant in November to make its decision. Notable winners of the prize include Marcel Proust (\"In Search of Lost Time\"), Simone de Beauvoir (\"The Mandarins\"), André Malraux (\"Man's Fate\") and Marguerite Duras (\"The Lover\").\n\nThe award was initially established to provide talented new authors with a monetary award that would allow them to write a second book. Today, the Goncourt has a token prize amount (around 10 euros), about the same amount given in 1903, and so the prestige of the prize has been explained not because of the cash-value of the prize, but \"in terms of the tremendous book sales it effects: the Goncourt winner becomes an instant millionaire.\"\n\nIn 1987, the Prix Goncourt des Lycéens was established, as a collaboration between the académie Goncourt, the French Ministry of Education, and Fnac, a book, music, and movie retailer.\n\nThe Prix Renaudot is announced at the same ceremony as the Prix Goncourt. It has become known as something of a second-place prize.\n\nWithin months of the first prize in 1903, it spawned a \"hostile counter-prize\" in the form of the Prix Femina to counter the all-male Jury of the Goncourt with an all-female jury on the Femina.\n\nSome decisions for awarding the prize have been controversial, a famous case being the decision to award the prize in 1919 to Marcel Proust; this was met with indignation, since many in the public felt that the prize should have gone to Roland Dorgelès for \"Les Croix de bois\", a novel about the First World War. The prize was supposed to be awarded to promising young authors, whereas Proust was not considered \"young\" at 48 – however Proust was a beginning author which is the only eligibility requirement, age being unimportant.\n\nIn 1921, Rene Maran won the Goncourt with \"Batouala, veritable roman negre\", the first French novel to openly criticize European colonialism in Africa. The novel caused \"violent reactions\" and was banned in all the French colonies.\n\nIn 1932, the prize was controversial for passing up Louis-Ferdinand Céline's \"Voyage au bout de la nuit\" for Guy Mazeline's \"Les Loups\". The voting process became the basis of the 1992 book \"Goncourt 32\" by Eugène Saccomano.\n\nAlthough the award may only be given to an author once, Romain Gary won it twice, in 1956 for \"Les racines du ciel\" and again under the pseudonym Émile Ajar in 1975 for \"La vie devant soi\". The Académie Goncourt awarded the prize to Ajar without knowing his real identity. A period of literary intrigue followed. Gary's cousin's son Paul Pavlowitch posed as the author for a time. Gary later revealed the truth in his posthumous book \"Vie et mort d'Émile Ajar\".\n\nIn addition to the Prix Goncourt for a novel, the Academy Awards four other awards, for first novel, short story, biography and poetry.\n\nAs of March 2009, the académie changed the award name by dropping \"bourses\" (\"scholarship\") from the title. The prefix \"prix\" can be included or not, such as \"Prix Goncourt de la Poésie\" (Goncourt prize for Poetry) or \"Goncourt de la Poésie\" (Goncourt of Poetry). For example: \"Claude Vigée was awarded a Goncourt de la Poésie in 2008\". Or, \"Claude Vigée won the 2008 prix Goncourt de la Poésie\".\n\nThe award titles are:\n\nThe winners are listed below.\n\nGoncourt Prize for biography. Awarded in partnership with the city of Nancy.\n\nGoncourt Prize for short stories. Begun in 1974 in the form of scholarships. Awarded in partnership with the city of Strasbourg since 2001.\n\n\nGoncourt Prize for debut novel. Awarded in partnership with the municipality of Paris.\n\n\nGoncourt Prize for poetry. Established through the bequest of Adrien Bertrand (Prix Goncourt in 1914). The award is for the poet's entire career work.\n\n\nGoncrout Prize for children's literature. Awarded in partnership with the municipality of Fontvieille. Discontinued after 2007.\n\n\nFor a more comprehensive overview a list of literary awards is available.\n\nNotes\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "19633395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19633395", "title": "Refugee Week", "text": "Refugee Week\n\nRefugee Week takes place in June each year. It is regularly used as a platform for holding hundreds of arts, cultural and educational events.\n\nRefugee Week events are often intended to celebrate the contribution of refugees to the United Kingdom, and encourage a better understanding between communities.\n\nRefugee Week always takes place in the week closest to World Refugee Day (20 June).\n\nThe dates for 2009–2012 are as follows:\n\n\nEvents during Refugee Week are usually organised by different charities, local governments, refugee community organisations, schools, faith groups, arts organisations, day centres and umbrella networks.\n\nA multi-agency organisation called the Refugee Week partnership leads on unifying the events.\n\nEvents organised during Refugee Week are held independently from the Refugee Week partnership and are not obliged to follow the suggested direction of the partnership.\n\nEvents include the annual Umbrella Parade and the Celebrating Sanctuary Festival in London. 2011 will also see a \"100% British created by refugees\" campaign to celebrate the contribution of refugees to British society, as well as a Simple Acts campaign which encourages people do a least one simple action in order to make a big change to the way refugees are perceived in the UK.\n\nThe strategic direction of Refugee Week is organised by the Refugee Week partnership, which is a multi-agency project, with representatives from the partner agencies forming the UK Steering and Operation Groups. The partner agencies of the Refugee Week partnership currently include: Amnesty International UK, British Red Cross, the Children's Society, Freedom from Torture, the Home Office, Oxfam, Refugee Action, Refugee Council, Save the Children Fund UK, Scottish Refugee Council, Student Action for Refugees, UNHCR, and Welsh Refugee Council\n\nThe Refugee Week partnerships' slogan is \"Different Pasts, Shared Future\".\n\nThe Refugee Week partnership encourages event organisers to organise events around the idea that Refugee Week is a \"space of encounters\" between different communities and an opportunity to use more creative ways to bring refugee experiences closer to wider audiences.\n\nThe week also features an online broadcast by Refugee Week Radio with content produced by groups such as Refugee Radio and the British Red Cross\n"}
{"id": "6943393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6943393", "title": "Renata Chlumska", "text": "Renata Chlumska\n\nRenata Chlumska (born December 9, 1973 in Malmö, Sweden) is an adventurer and mountain climber. Born to Czech parents, she has both Swedish and Czech citizenship.\n\nIn 1999, she became the first Swedish and Czech woman to climb Mount Everest. During 2005 and 2006 she performed a challenge called \"Around America Adventure\" in the lower 48 states of the United States. She paddled a kayak from Seattle to San Diego, bicycled with the kayak on a carriage from San Diego to Brownsville, Texas, continued kayaking around Florida to Eastport, Maine, and then bicycled back to Seattle. She became the first person to circumnavigate 32 states by bicycle and kayak.\n\nShe was engaged to Göran Kropp when he died in a climbing accident.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11431524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11431524", "title": "Richie Barnett", "text": "Richie Barnett\n\nRichie Barnett (born 21 April 1972 in Auckland, New Zealand) is a former professional rugby league footballer of the 1990s and 2000s. A New Zealand national representative fullback, he also captained the side during his career, during which he played for clubs in New Zealand, Australia and England. Following his playing career he became a columnist for \"The New Zealand Herald\".\n\nWhile playing in New Zealand Barnett was selected to play in the 1992 Pacific Cup for the New Zealand Māori side. He joined Sydney club, Cronulla-Sutherland Sharks in 1994. The following year Barnett was selected to represent New Zealand at the 1995 World Cup. He was selected for New Zealand in the 1996 Super League World Nines tournament. He was selected to play at fullback for the Kiwis in the 1997 ANZAC Test. He also played in the 1997 Super League World Nines.\n\nBarnett left the Sharks for cross-town rivals, the Sydney Roosters for the 1998 season. That year he was selected to go on the 1998 New Zealand rugby league tour of Great Britain and played at fullback in all three Tests, scoring two tries. The following year he was selected for the New Zealand team to compete in the end of season 1999 Rugby League Tri-Nations tournament. In the final against Australia he captained the Kiwis at fullback in their 22-20 loss. Barnett's 2000 season was cut short by a facial fracture he suffered during the 2000 ANZAC Test. He recovered in time to be selected to captain New Zealand from fullback at the 2000 World Cup. Barnett was succeeded as captain of New Zealand by Nathan Cayless.\n\nAfter his NRL career ended, he played for London Broncos in the Super League until 2002.\n\nHe currently works as a broadcaster for SKY Network Television.\n\nIn the early 21st century, Barnett developed ME/CFS and has said that the condition was the reason for his retirement. In July 2015, he described himself as 80% recovered. In 2000, he sustained a facial injury during a match and had to have surgery that involved having 10 plates inserted into his skull. He has stated that he would rather go through that surgery again, than live with ME/CFS once more. He is the face of the Associated New Zealand ME Society (ANZMES).\n\n"}
{"id": "19220693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19220693", "title": "Robert K. C. Forman", "text": "Robert K. C. Forman\n\nRobert K. C. Forman, a long-term TM-practitioner and a critic of the constructionist approach to mystical experience, was professor of religion at the City University of New York, author of several studies on religious experience, and co-editor of the Journal of Consciousness Studies.\n\nForman is a long-term Transcendental meditation practitioner, with over 40 years of practice. After two years of practice he had his first \"break-through\" during a nine-month meditation retreat: \nThis initial experience led him to pursuing a PhD at Columbia University, and an academic career in religious studies.\n\nForman has worked as professor of religion at City University of New York, both Hunter College and City College, and is Founding Executive Director of The Forge Institute for Spirituality and Social Change. His books include \"The Problems of Pure Consciousness\", \"The Innate Capacity\" and \"Enlightenment Ain't What It's Cracked Up to Be\".\n\nAs well as editing a number of books on the topic of consciousness and mysticism, Forman has worked as co-editor of the Journal of Consciousness Studies. He has also collaborated with Ken Wilber on work (Forman, Wilber & Andresen, 2000).\n\nForman describes his position as \"perennial psychology\", but he is keen to point out that this is not the same as perennial philosophy.\n\nForman has taken a strong stance against Katz' \"constructivism\", and can be understood as a defender of the perennialist position on mystical experience, the view that there is indeed a core experience common to mystics of all creeds, cultures and generations. Notable representatives of this perennial philosophy school, such as William James, Evelyn Underhill, James Bissett Pratt, Mircea Eliade and Walter Terence Stace, argue that mystical experience gives a direct contact with an absolute reality, which is thereafter interpreted according to one's religious and cultural background.\n\nThis position has been strongly criticised by constructivists, most strongly and influently by Steven T. Katz, starting with his 1978 publication \"Mysticism and Pholosophical Analysis\". According to Forman, these criticisms center around three points:\n\nForman has criticised the constructivist stance, specifically criticising Katz article \"Language, Epistemology and Mysticism\" (1978). According to Forman, Katz commits the fallacy of \"petitio principii\", that is, making a statement without providing evidence, but only providing arguments. According to Forman, Katz' argument is systematically incomplete, since it implies that any difference in religious beliefs and assumptions leads to different experiences. Yet, according to Forman, the same experience may be described in different terms, such as \"samadhi\" and \"sunyata\".\n\nForman further criticises Katz for his inability to take into account novel experiences, of persons who are not trained in mystical traditions, which resemble trained mystical experiences, yet are not invoked by mystical practices. According to Forman, one can have a mystical experience, and only later recognise it as similar to those acquired in mystical traditions.\n\nForman defines mysticism as \"a set of experiences or more precisely, conscious events, which are not described in terms of sensory experience or mental images.\" Following Roland Fischer, Forman makes a distinction between ergotropic and trophotropic mystical states. Ergotropic mystical states are hallucinations, visions and auditory experiences, whereas samadhi and other wakefull states are tropotropic. Forman restricts the term \"mysticism\" to the tropotropic states.\n\nForman argues that there is a phenomenon which he calls the \"Pure Consciousness Event,\" a \"wakefull though contentless (nonintentional) consciousness.\" It is the same as samadhi, and a form of Walter Stace's introvertive mysticism. In transcendental meditation, it is called transcendental consciousness; it is the fourth of seven states of consciousness, and the first of four transcendental states of consciousness, which eventually end in full enlightenment.\n\nAccording to James H. Austin, commenting on Forman's descriptions of his personal experiences with this sense of silence and bottomlessness, Forman also stated that although background thoughts disappeared, there was also an \"element of promise,\" \"a gratuitous \"subconscious\" process of \"incubation\".\" Forman himself gives the example of a student who asks him a question: \"Although he is aware that his conscious mind is \"completely silent,\" yet the correct answer still pops up to the surface of his mind out of the background of this \"richly pregnant silence.\"\"\n\nForman equates sahaja samadhi with Stace's extroverted mysticism, noting that Stace considered \"introverted mysticism\" to be a higher form of mysticism than \"extroverted mysticism.\" Forman disagrees, referring to Ramana Maharshi, who repeatedly stated that sahaja samadhi, effortless samadhi, was a further development than samadhi, absorption. The same stance is taken in transcendental meditation, where the highest stages of consciousness continue throughout waking activity.\n\nAccording to Forman, constructivism is not able to account for the PCE as being a constructed event. According to Forman, a mystical experience may be shaped or constructed in three senses: content, form, shaping-process. All three fail for the PCE:\n\nForman describes the stages leading to the PCE, such as the Buddhist formless jhanas, as a series of successive stages in which cognitive schemata are \"forgotten,\" leading to an \"empty\" state of consciousness.\n\nForman questions the doctrine of intentionality insofar as he claims that, during a Pure Consciousness Event, cognition may lack an intentional object.\n\nLola Williamson interviewed TM-practitioners. In contrast to Forman's statements she notes that those transcendent experiences show variations between various TM-practitioners, and are also not contentless.\n\nYaroslav Komarovski (2015) notes that the idea of a PCE has a very limited applicability in Tibetan Buddhism. According to Komarovski, the realization of emptiness as described in the Buddhist Madhyamaka tradition is different from the PCE. Not only the realization itself is different, but also the causes and the subsequent influence on the personality. According to Komarovski, it is brought about by specific Buddhist techniques, and results in specific Buddhist objectives, thereby illustrating the opposite of what Forman argues. According to Komarovski, to force the PCE into the spectrum of Tibetan Buddhist practices, it would be, at best, one of the minor events, and not the key mystical experience. Rather, according to Komarvski, \"certain experiences and mental states adresses by Tibetan thinkers are treated as PCE due to an oversimplification of and confusion about the nature of those experiences.\"\n\nIn \"The Innate Capacity\", he gives the example of a man who had the Buddhist experience of satori, although not himself a Buddhist at the time, and only later learnt about satori. Indeed, even if one did learn about an experience and later have it, in Forman's view this does not prove that the learning causes the experience; to think in this way would, in Forman's view, be to commit the logical error of post hoc ergo propter hoc.\n\n\"Enlightenment Ain't What It's Cracked Up to Be\", Forman's most popular book, is his most personal book. Using his own experience as a touchstone, the volume is an exploration into the experiential nuances of and nature of spiritual enlightenment. Forman describes both the illusions that many gurus have communicated about it, and the nature of the disillusionment process. Tapping his own 40 years of experience of such a permanent shift, Forman describes the long term value of enlightenment as he came to view it: the honesty and authenticity that it serves to encourage. The book teaches however mostly through its tone of honesty and authentic seeking, offering a teaching through the quality of writing and openness.\n\n\nForman, R.K.C. (1998). What does mysticism have to teach us about consciousness? Journal of Consciousness Studies, 5 (2) 185–201\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8506591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8506591", "title": "Sachem", "text": "Sachem\n\nSachem and Sagamore refer to paramount chiefs among the Algonquians or other Native American tribes of the northeast. The two words are anglicizations of cognate terms (c. 1622) from different Eastern Algonquian languages. The Sagamore was a lesser chief than the Sachem. Both of these chiefs are chosen by their people. Sagamores are chosen by single bands to represent them and the Sachem is chosen to represent a tribe or group of bands. Neither title is hereditary but selected by the bands. \n\nOne source explains:\n\nAccording to Captain Ryan Ridge, who explored New England in 1614, the Massachusett tribes called their kings \"sachems\" while the Penobscots (of present-day Maine) used the term \"sagamos\" (anglicized as \"sagamore\"). Conversely, Deputy Governor Thomas Dudley of Roxbury wrote in 1631 that the kings in the bay area were called sagamores, but were called sachems southward (in Plymouth). The two terms apparently came from the same root. Although \"sagamore\" has sometimes been defined by colonists and historians as a subordinate lord (or subordinate chief), modern opinion is that \"sachem\" and \"sagamore\" are dialectical variations of the same word.\n\nThe \"great chief\" (Southern New England Algonquian: \"massasoit sachem\") whose aid was such a boon to the Plymouth Colony—although his motives were complex—is remembered today as simply Massasoit. \n\nAnother sachem, \"Mahomet Weyonomon\" of the \"Mohegan\" tribe, travelled to London in 1735, to petition King George II for fairer treatment of his people. He complained that their lands were becoming overrun by English settlers. Other sachems included Uncas, Wonalancet, Madockawando, and Samoset.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2619443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2619443", "title": "Steven M. Greer", "text": "Steven M. Greer\n\nSteven Macon Greer (June 28, 1955) is an American retired traumatologist and ufologist who founded the Center for the Study of Extraterrestrial Intelligence (CSETI) and the Disclosure Project, which seeks the disclosure of allegedly suppressed UFO information.\n\nGreer was born in Charlotte, North Carolina in 1955. He claims to have seen an unidentified flying object at close range when he was about eight years old, which inspired his interest in ufology. \n\nGreer was trained as a Transcendental Meditation teacher and served as director of a meditation organization. He received his B.S. in biology from Appalachian State University in 1982 and M.D. from the James H. Quillen College of Medicine of East Tennessee State University in 1987. He attended MAHEC University of North Carolina where he completed his internship in 1988 and received his Virginia medical license in 1989. That year he became a member of the Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Medical Society.\n\nGreer founded the Center for the Study of Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence (CSETI) in 1990 to create a diplomatic and research-based initiative to contact extraterrestrial civilizations. In 1993, he founded the Disclosure Project, a nonprofit research project, whose goal is to disclose to the public the government's alleged knowledge of UFOs, extraterrestrial intelligence, and advanced energy and propulsion systems. The Disclosure Project was founded in an effort to grant amnesty to government whistle-blowers willing to violate their security oaths by sharing insider knowledge about UFOs. Greer says he gave a briefing to CIA director James Woolsey at a dinner party, although this was denied by director Woolsey and attendees.\n\nIn October 1994, Greer appeared in Larry King's TV special \"The UFO Coverup?\"\nIn 1995, Greer worked as a physician at the department of emergency medicine at Caldwell Memorial Hospital, where he was chairman.\n\nIn 1997, Greer, along with other members of CSETI, including Apollo astronaut Edgar Mitchell, made a presentation at a background briefing for members of Congress. In 1998, Greer gave up his career as an emergency room physician in favor of the Disclosure Project.\nIn May 2001, Greer held a press conference at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C. that featured 20 retired Air Force, Federal Aviation Administration and intelligence officers. According to a 2002 report in the \"Oregon Daily Emerald\", Greer has gathered 120 hours of testimony from civilians and various government and military officials, including astronaut Gordon Cooper and a brigadier general, on the topic of UFOs.\n\nGreer authored \"Unacknowledged: An Exposé of the World's Greatest Secret” in 2017. The book is also the subject of a 2017 Documentary film, titled \"Unacknowledged,\" directed by Michael Mazzola.\n\nIn 2013, Greer co-produced \"Sirius\", a documentary detailing his work and hypotheses regarding extraterrestrial life, government cover-ups and close encounters of the fifth kind. The film was directed by Amardeep Kaleka and narrated by Thomas Jane, and covers Greer's 2006 book \"Hidden Truth, Forbidden Knowledge\". The movie premiered on April 22, 2013, in Los Angeles, California, and features interviews from former government and military officials. \n\n\"Sirius\" depicts a six-inch human skeleton known as the Atacama skeleton, and features images and a DNA test of the skeleton. Genetic evidence showed that it was human, with genetic markers found in \"indigenous women from the Chilean region of South America\". The director of the center that did the analysis said, \"It's an interesting medical mystery of an unfortunate human with a series of birth defects that currently [...] the genetics of which are not obvious.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3848490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3848490", "title": "Tad Lincoln", "text": "Tad Lincoln\n\nThomas \"Tad\" Lincoln III (April 4, 1853 – July 15, 1871) was the fourth and youngest son of Abraham and Mary Todd Lincoln. The nickname \"Tad\" was given to him by his father, who observed that he had a large head and was \"as wiggly as a tadpole\" when he was a baby. Lincoln was known to be impulsive and unrestrained, and he did not attend school during his father's lifetime. He had free run of the White House, and there are stories of him interrupting presidential meetings, collecting animals, and charging visitors to see his father. He died at the age of 18 on July 15, 1871, in Chicago.\n\nLincoln was born on April 4, 1853, the fourth son of Abraham Lincoln and Mary Todd. His three elder brothers were Robert (1843–1926), Edward (1846–1850), and William (1850–1862). Named after his paternal grandfather Thomas Lincoln and uncle Thomas Lincoln, Jr., the fourth boy was soon nicknamed \"Tad\" by his father, for his small body and large head, and because he wiggled like a tadpole as an infant. Lincoln's first name has occasionally been erroneously recorded as Thaddeus.\n\nLincoln was born with a form of cleft lip and palate, causing him speech problems throughout his life. He had a lisp and delivered his words rapidly and unintelligibly. Often only those close to Lincoln were able to understand him. For example, he called his father's bodyguard, William H. Crook, \"Took\", and his father \"Papa Day\" instead of \"Papa Dear\". The cleft palate contributed to uneven teeth; he had such difficulty chewing food that his meals were specially prepared.\n\nLincoln and his brother Willie were considered \"notorious hellions\" during the period they lived in Springfield. They were recorded by their father's law partner William Herndon as having turned their law office upside down, pulling the books off the shelves, while their father appeared oblivious to their behavior.\n\nUpon their father's election as President, both Tad and Willie moved into the White House and it became their new playground and home. At the request of Mrs. Lincoln, Julia Taft brought her younger brothers, 14-year-old \"Bud\" (Horatio Nelson Taft Jr., 1847–1915) and 12-year-old \"Holly\" (Halsey Cook Taft, 1849–1897), to the White House, and they became playmates of the two young Lincolns.\n\nIn February 1862, both Lincoln boys contracted typhoid fever and both boys were bedridden. Willie died on February 20, while Tad recovered. After his brother's death, his parents became even more lenient toward his behavior.\n\nDuring the time his father was alive, Tad was impulsive, unrestrained, and did not attend school. John Hay wrote that the boy's numerous tutors in the White House usually quit in frustration. Tad had free run of the White House, and there are stories of him interrupting presidential meetings, collecting animals, charging visitors to see his father, and more.\n\nOn April 14, 1865, Tad went to Grover's Theatre to see the play \"Aladdin and the Wonderful Lamp\" while his parents attended the performance of \"Our American Cousin\" at Ford's Theatre. That night, his father was fatally shot by John Wilkes Booth. When news of the assassination spread to Grover's Theatre, the manager made an announcement to the entire audience. Tad began running and screaming, \"They killed Papa! They killed Papa!\" He was escorted back to the White House while his mother pleaded to have him brought to his father's deathbed at the Petersen House. \"Bring Tad—he will speak to Tad—he loves him so.\" Late that night, an inconsolable Tad was put to bed by a White House doorman. President Lincoln died the next morning, on Saturday, April 15, at 7:22 am. About the death of his father, Tad said:\nPa is dead. I can hardly believe that I shall never see him again. I must learn to take care of myself now. Yes, Pa is dead, and I am only Tad Lincoln now, little Tad, like other little boys. I am not a president's son now. I won't have many presents anymore. Well, I will try and be a good boy, and will hope to go someday to Pa and brother Willie, in Heaven.\nAfter the assassination, Mary, Robert, and Tad Lincoln lived together in Chicago. Robert moved out after a short time, and Tad began attending school. In 1868, they left Chicago and lived in Europe for almost three years, in Germany and later in England.\n\nLincoln suffered from what one modern commentator has called a \"complex speech and language disorder\" related to some form of a cleft lip or palate. This caused some problems when Lincoln was in school in Chicago. While at the Elizabeth Street School, his schoolmates sometimes called him \"Stuttering Tad\" because of the speech impediment, which he was able to overcome as a teenager.\n\nOn Saturday morning, July 15, 1871, Lincoln died at the age of 18. The cause of death has been variously referred to as tuberculosis, a pleuristic attack, pneumonia, or congestive heart failure. Lincoln's death occurred at the Clifton House hotel in Chicago. In an obituary, John Hay affectionately referred to him as \"Little Tad\".\n\nFuneral services were held for Lincoln in his brother Robert's home in Chicago. His body was transported to Springfield and buried in the Lincoln Tomb at Oak Ridge Cemetery, alongside his father and two of his brothers. Robert accompanied the casket on the train, but Mary was too distraught to make the trip.\n\nOn film and television Tad Lincoln has been portrayed by,\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4265724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4265724", "title": "Theroigne de Mericourt", "text": "Theroigne de Mericourt\n\nAnne-Josèphe Théroigne de Méricourt (born Anne-Josèphe Terwagne; 13 August 1762–9 June 1817) was a singer, orator and organizer in the French Revolution. She was born at Marcourt (Prince-Bishopric of Liège) (from which comes the appellation \"de Méricourt\"), a small town in Luxembourg province, in modern Belgium. She is known both for her portrayal in the French Revolutionary press and for her subsequent mental breakdown and institutionalization.\n\nShe was born Anne-Josèphe Terwagne in Marcourt, Rendeux, to Pierre Terwagne (b. 1731) and Anne-Élisabeth Lahaye (1732–1767). Her mother died after giving birth to her third child, leaving Anne-Josèphe alone with her father and two brothers; Pierre-Josèphe (b. 1764) and Josèphe (b. 1767). After her mother died, she was sent to live with her Aunt in Liége and was put into a convent school where she learned how to sew. About a year after Anne-Josèphe began school, her aunt married and stopped paying for her school. Anne-Josèphe fled back to her father after he remarried because she was forced to be a house maid and tend to her aunt's children. \n\nLife at her father's was no better, her stepmother treated her just as poorly as her aunt did. Her eldest brother went to Germany to stay with relatives by the name of Campinados. At the age of thirteen, Anne-Josèphe and her younger brother went to to stay with some of their father's relatives. While in , she was constantly snubbed and overworked to the point where she could not take it any longer. As a result, she went back to her aunt in Liège, but found that she was still mistreated. After realizing the need to start her own life, she learned to herd cows in , a province in Limburg. A year later she went back to Liège to work as a seamstress, only to face the same discontent with her life as before. She proceeded to seek refuge with a different aunt by the name of Clamend who lived in . Before long, a woman asked Anne-Josèphe to come to Antwerp with her to care for her daughter. The woman abandoned her at the inn they were staying at after a few weeks. Luckily for Anne-Josèphe, a woman by the name of Madame Colbert saw something within her and took her in as the governess to her children. Anne-Josèphe was sixteen when she started living with Madame Colbert; her life consisted of teaching Madame Colbert's children and studying operatic singing in several European capitals. They ended up at Madame Colbert's house in London where eventually a rich Englishman set his eyes on Anne-Josèphe. One night when Madame Colbert was out, the Englishman entered the home begging for Anne-Josèphe to elope with him. According to her account after she declined, she was abducted and taken by force. When he became of age and inherited his fortune, the unmarried couple went to Paris to live their lives. She quickly caught onto his lavish ways and tried to work with him, but in 1787 he returned to England leaving her in Paris with two hundred thousand livres.\n\nAt some point between 1784 and 1787 she crafted a relationship with sixty year old Marquis de Persan, a Councillor of the Parliament of Paris. Much about their relationship remains a mystery, but what is known is that they communicated through letters, and that he gifted her very generously. Anne-Joseph operated under the alias Mademoiselle Campinado whenever she worked as a courtesan. After meeting a renown Italian tenor, Giacomo David, for the first time she was inspired her to break away from Marquis de Persan and pursue her singing career. She found a noteworthy castrato teacher named Giusto Fernando Tenducci and since she could not afford the full cost of the lessons with the help of Tenducci's attorney they drafted up an agreement. She had no idea of Tenducci's plan to scam her out of money so he could pay off his debts. While traveling towards her father, she got news that her father had died and so she was forced to change her plans. Tenducci was not able to execute his plan because she no longer had a reason to visit and drop off a large sum of money. Tenducci proceeded to convince her to travel to Italy with him, her two brothers, and her half brother Pierrot. She was under the impression that she was going to be reimbursed for the travel expenses. They left to Genoa, Italy at some point between May 1787 and February 1788. After recognizing his true intentions, she sought help from friends and lawyers who assured her that the contract was invalid. In order to go to Rome like she now desired, Anne-Josèphe needed money. In March 1789 she wrote to Jean-Frédéric Perregaux, a Swiss banker, thanking him for his assistance in acquiring payment from Marquis de Persan, asking for a loan to buy her eldest brother a managership, and requesting letters of recommendation for Rome and Naples. Rumors about the revolution began surfacing in Rome. In May 1789, after her younger brother was situated in Rome, she traveled from Italy to Paris, where she became swept up in the early stirrings of the Revolution.\n\nAnne-Josèphe's first involvement in the revolution was on July 17, 1789 when King Louis XVI was at the Hôtel de Ville, sanctifying the revolution while wearing a tricolored cockade. She dressed in a man's riding habit and a round hat in order to appear as a man to avoid the discrimination faced by women.\n\nOn August 4, 1789 she attended an important National Assembly meeting discussing the rapidly spreading revolution. By the end of the month the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen was passed. She decided to move to , in Versailles, to ensure that she make it to all of the National Assembly meetings. She learned as much as she could about the unfolding events like the Women's March on Versailles so she could understand the issues and begin to help. In October 1789 she moved to Paris so she could continue to attend the National Assembly meetings which now took place in there.\n\nIn January 1790 she founded, along with Gilbert Romme, the \"Société des amis de la loi\" (\"Society of Friends of the Law\"), a club that sought to encourage and assist patriotic work in the provinces. The club was short-lived, and Anne-Josèphe turned her revolutionary zeal into oratory at the Club des Cordeliers and the terraces of the National Assembly. Frustrated by the minimal opportunities available to female patriots, she supported the formation of mixed-sex and women's patriotic clubs. Around this time is when she became known as Théroigne de Méricourt.\n\nThéroigne was beginning to realize that the majority of the supporters of the revolution were interested in the rights of men, and not in the rights of women. Beginning in November 1789, the Parisian royalist press began to construct a flamboyant and infamous caricature of Théroigne as a \"patriots' whore\" and \"female war chief.\" According to the pages of these pamphlets, she had assaulted the Bastille and led the October Days march on Versailles; she fought soldiers and was \"ever to be found where the unrest was greatest,\" attired in a \"scarlet riding-habit and... black plume.\" She was also portrayed as a shameless libertine who was sexually involved with \"Deputy Populus\" (\"the people\") and one tabloid wrote that \"every representative [of the National Assembly] may fairly claim to be the father of her child.\"\n\nIn May 1790, impoverished and much affected by the libels of the royalist press, Théroigne left Paris for . After a short stay she proceeded to Liege, in which town she was seized by warrant of the Austrian Government, and conveyed first to Tyrol and thereafter to the Kufstein Fortress, where she was interrogated about her revolutionary activities. She was taken by mercenaries on a ten-day journey to Austria, during which she was bullied and nearly raped by her three captors. The Austrians, influenced by Théroigne's portrayal in the Paris tabloids, attributed to her an exaggerated role in the Revolution. They portrayed her as a subversive \"Pythia,\" a possible spy who had corrupted soldiers with inflammatory rhetoric, threatened the royal family, and instigated the October Days.\n\nFrançois de Blanc was appointed by the Imperial Chancellor, Prince Kaunitz, to be Thèroigne's interrogator. After about a month of heavy interrogation, Blanc found that she had no useful information to offer, and that many of the rumors regarding her were false. Eventually Blanc grew an affection to her and arranged for her release after he discovered that she had many health issues; including depression, insomnia, migraines, and coughing of blood.\n\nIn January 1792, Théroigne returned to Paris. News of her Austrian captivity had preceded her, and she was welcomed as a hero. On February 1, she spoke at the Jacobin Club, where she described her ordeal and was lauded as \"one of the first Amazons of liberty.\" Throughout the spring of 1792, she campaigned for women's rights to bear arms, and in March argued for the establishment of a battalion of women who might defend the city. Her recruiting work for this battalion, however, proved unpopular, and she was denounced to the Jacobins for causing unrest in the Faubourg Saint-Antoine.\n\nDuring the insurrection of August 10, Théroigne was involved with the death of royalist prisoners at the Place Vendôme. That Theroigne lynched to death the royalist pamphleteer is not true. She was later awarded a civic crown for her courage on August 10, 1792.\n\nThéroigne's revolutionary activities remained subdued for the remainder of 1792, though she was often seen at the Jacobins in her riding habit. In early 1793, she composed a series of placards arguing for the active involvement of women in encouraging patriotic duty. Théroigne had, by this point, allied herself with the Girondins, a political faction at odds with the radical Jacobins.\n\nOn May 15, Théroigne was delivering a speech in the Jardin des Tuileries when she was attacked by a group of women allied with the Jacobins. The women, objecting to her pro-Girondin sentiments, stripped her naked and beat her severely. \nShe was rescued by the intervention of Jean-Paul Marat, but suffered afterwards from headaches and mental troubles.\n\nThéroigne's behavior became erratic, and on September 20, 1794 she was certified insane and put into an asylum in Faubourg Marceau. She was ultimately sent to La Salpêtrière Hospital in 1807, where she lived for ten years, intermittently lucid and speaking constantly about the Revolution. Following a short illness, she died there on June 9, 1817.\n\nThe history of this fictional Théroigne came to overshadow and confuse her actual actions during this time. By her own account, she was not present at the fall of the Bastille, nor did she march on Versailles during the October Days; rather, she had lived at Versailles throughout the summer of 1789, attending debates at the National Assembly and meeting with political figures such as Jérôme Pétion, Camille Desmoulins, and the Abbé Sieyès. She did indeed, while at Versailles, dress in a man's riding habit, but she did not lead any insurrectionary actions.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28226852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28226852", "title": "Thomas Tonkin", "text": "Thomas Tonkin\n\nThomas Tonkin (1678–1742) was a Cornish landowner and historian.\n\nHe was born at Trevaunance, St Agnes, Cornwall, and baptised in its parish church on 26 September 1678, was the eldest son of Hugh Tonkin (1652–1711), vice-warden of the Stannaries 1701, and High Sheriff of Cornwall 1702, by his first wife, Frances (1662–1691), daughter of Walter Vincent of Trelevan, near Tregony.\n\nTonkin matriculated from Queen's College, Oxford, on 12 March 1693–4, and was entered as a student at Lincoln's Inn on 20 February 1694–5. At Oxford he associated with his fellow-collegian, Edmund Gibson, afterwards bishop of London, and with Edward Lhuyd, who between 1700 and 1708 addressed several letters to him in Cornwall and he was friendly with Bishop Thomas Tanner.\n\nTonkin withdrew into Cornwall and settled on the family estate. From about 1700 to the end of his days he prosecuted without cessation his inquiries into the topography and genealogy of Cornwall, and he soon made 'great proficiency in studying the Welsh and Cornish languages'; but he quickly became involved in pecuniary trouble. To improve his property he obtained in 1706 the queen's sign-manual to a patent for a weekly market and two fairs at St. Agnes, but through the opposition of the inhabitants of Truro the grant was revoked. His progenitors had spent large sums from 1632 onwards in endeavouring to erect a quay at Trevaunance-porth. By 1710 he had expended £6,000. upon it, but the estate afterwards fell 'into the hands of a merciless creditor,' and in 1730 the pier was totally destroyed 'for want of a very small timely repair and looking after'.\n\nTonkin's wife was Elizabeth, daughter of James Kempe of the Barn, near Penryn. Thomas Worth, jun., of that town, and Samuel Kempe of Carclew, an adjoining mansion, were his brothers-in-law. He had by these connections much interest in the district, and from 12 April 1714 at a by-election, to the dissolution on 5 January 1714–15, he represented in parliament the borough of Helston. Alexander Pendarves, whose widow afterwards became Mrs. Delany, was his colleague in parliament and his chief friend; they were 'Cornish squires of high tory repute'.\n\nOn the death of the last of the Vincents, Tonkin dwelt at Trelevan for a time; but the property was too much encumbered for him to retain the freehold. The latter part of his life was passed at Polgorran, in Gorran parish, another of his estates. He died there, and was buried at Gorran on 4 January 1741–2. His wife predeceased him on 24 June 1739. They had several children, but the male line became extinct on the death of Thomas Tonkin, their third son.\n\nTonkin put forth in 1737 proposals for printing a history of Cornwall, in three volumes of imperial quarto at three guineas; and on 19 July 1736 he prefixed to a collection of modern Cornish pieces and a Cornish vocabulary, which he had drawn up for printing, a dedication to William Gwavas of Gwavas, his chief assistant (this dedication was sent by Prince Louis Lucien Bonaparte on 30 November 1861 to the \"Cambrian Journal\", and there reprinted to show the indebtedness to Tonkin's labours of William Pryce. Neither of these contemplated works saw the light. On 25 February 1761 Dr. Borlase obtained from Tonkin's representative the loan of his manuscripts, consisting 'of nine volumes, five folios, and four quartos, partly written upon,' a list of which is printed in the 'Journal of the Royal Institution of Cornwall,'. On the death of Tonkin's niece, Miss Foss, in 1780, the manuscripts of the proposed history of Cornwall became the property of Lord de Dunstanville, who allowed Davies Gilbert to edit and to embody them in his history of the county 'founded on the manuscript histories of Mr. Hals and Mr. Tonkin' (1838, 4 vols.). Dunstanville published in 1811 an edition of Richard Carew's \"Survey of Cornwall, with Notes illustrative of its History and Antiquities by Thomas Tonkin.\" Those on the first book of the \"Survey\" were evidently prepared for publication by Tonkin, and the other notes were selected from the manuscripts. His journal of the convocation of Stannators in 1710 was added to it. Tonkin's manuscript history passed from Lord de Dunstanville to Sir Thomas Phillipps, and was sold by Messrs. Sotheby & Co. for £51 to Mr. Quaritch on 7 June 1898.\n\nTwo volumes of Tonkin's \"Alphabetical Account of all the Parishes in Cornwall,\" down to the letter O, passed to William Sandys, and then to William Copeland Borlase, from whom they went into the museum of the Royal Institution of Cornwall at Truro. Four of the later parts were presented to the same body by the Rev. F. W. Pye, and another page by Sir John Maclean. Several manuscripts transcribed by Tonkin are in Addit. MS. 33420 at the British Museum, and numerous letters by him, in print and in manuscript, are mentioned in the \"Bibliotheca Cornubiensis.\" Tonkin gave much aid to Browne Willis in his \"Parochiale Anglicanum.\" Polwhele called Tonkin 'one of the most enlightened antiquaries of his day.’\n\n\nA fuller biography can be found in an article by H. L. Douch titled \"an appreciation of a neglected historian\" published in JRIC ns iv 145-80\n"}
{"id": "25093081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25093081", "title": "Timeline of Niccolò Machiavelli", "text": "Timeline of Niccolò Machiavelli\n\nThis timeline lists important events relevant to the life of the Italian diplomat, writer and political philosopher Niccolò di Bernardo dei Machiavelli (1469–1527).\n\nMachiavelli was born in Florence in 1469 of an old citizen family. Little is known about his life until 1498, when he was appointed secretary and second chancellor to the Florentine Republic. During his time of office his journeys included missions to Louis XII of France and to the Holy Roman Emperor Maximillian I; he was with Cesare Borgia in the Romagna; and after watching the second Papal election of 1503 he accompanied Pope Julius II on his first campaign of conquest. In 1507, as chancellor of the newly appointed \"Nove di Milizia\" (Nine of the Militia), he organised an infantry force which fought at the capture of Pisa in 1509. Three years later it was defeated by the Holy League at Prato, the Medici returned to Florence, and Machiavelli was excluded from public life. After suffering imprisonment and torture, he retired to his farm near San Casciano, where he lived with his wife and six children and gave his time to study and writing. His works included \"The Prince\"; \"the Discourses on the First Decade of Livy\"; \"The Art of War\" and the comedy, \"Mandragola\", a satire on seduction. In 1520, Cardinal Giulio de' Medici (later Pope Clement VII, 1523) secured him a commission to write a history of Florence, which he finished in 1525. After a brief return to public life, he died in 1527.\n\n\"(Dates in square brackets are conjectural)\"\n\n1469\n\n1471\n\n1481\n\n1484\n\n1491\n\n1492\n\n1494\n\n1498\n1499\n\n1500\n\n1501\n\n1502\n\n1503\n\n1504\n\n1506\n\n1507\n\n1508\n\n1509\n\n1510\n\n1511\n\n1512\n\n[After April 1512]\n\n[After April 1512 and before August 1513]\n\n1513\n\n[1514 or later]\n\n1513\n\n[1515–1520]\n\nCirca 1516\n\n[1517 or 1518]\n\n1518\n\n[1519 or 1520]\n\n1521\n\n1522\n\n1523\n\n[1524–1525]\n\n1525\n\n1526\n\n1527\n\n1531–1532\n\n\"(Dates in square brackets are conjectural)\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57640420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57640420", "title": "Vorenus and Pullo", "text": "Vorenus and Pullo\n\nLucius Vorenus and Titus Pullo were two Roman centurions of the 11th Legion (Legio XI Claudia) mentioned in the personal writings of Julius Caesar. \nVorenus and Pullo appear in Caesar's \"Commentarii de Bello Gallico,\" Book 5, Chapter 44. The episode describes the two as centurions, approaching the first ranks, who shared a bitter personal rivalry, and takes place in 54 BC when the Nervii attacked the legion under Quintus Cicero in their winter quarters in Nervian territory. \n\nIn an effort to outdo Vorenus, Pullo charged out of the fortified camp and attacked the enemy. Pullo casts his javelin into one of the enemy from a short distance, but his belt is simultaneously pierced by a spear, preventing him from drawing his sword, and he is surrounded by other Nervii. Just then, Vorenus, following Pullo from the fortifications, reached the site of the mêlée and engaged the enemy in hand-to-hand combat. After slaying one of the enemy and driving back the rest, Vorenus lost his footing on the irregular terrain. As the Nervii drew closer to him, Pullo came to his rescue. After slaying many of their opponents, the two retreated to the fortifications amidst roaring applause from their comrades, or \"covered with glory,\" as described by Caesar.\n\nIn the Civil War of 49 BC, Pullo was assigned to the XXIV Victrix Rapax, a new Italian legion commanded by the legate Gaius Antonius. In 48 BC, Antonius was blockaded on an island and forced to surrender; Pullo was apparently responsible for most of his soldiers switching sides to fight for Pompey. Later that year, he is recorded bravely defending Pompey's camp in Greece from Caesar's attack shortly before the Battle of Pharsalus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18340168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18340168", "title": "Wynand Claassen", "text": "Wynand Claassen\n\nWynand Claassen (born 16 January 1951, in Schweizer-Reneke) is a South African rugby player. He was selected as eighth-man for Northern Transvaal whilst studying architecture at the University of Pretoria in the late 1970s.\n\nHis father was George Claassen, a schoolmaster from Middelburg Hoërskool and winner of the 1961 Comrades Marathon between Pietermaritzburg and Durban.\n\nHe formed a loose-trio with Thys Lourens and Burger Geldenhuys and soon had two Currie Cup final victories.\n\nIn 1980 he moved to Natal and was selected for the Springboks in 1981, captaining the team on his debut against Ireland. Despite Natal's relegation to the Currie Cup B section at the end of 1981 he continued as Springbok captain until 1984.\n\nClaassen is credited with reviving rugby at the University of Natal, both as a player and later as a coach. In 1988 he coached the Durban campus of the University of Natal to the Moor Cup title.\n\nIn 1981 he earned international acclaim as captain during the infamous \"Rebel Tour\" in New Zealand.\n\nSince retiring from the sport, he has maintained an active role in South African Rugby across the spectrum. He is often invited to the Captain's Table at various fund raising events.\n\nHe has also earned great respect through his active involvement along with other Springbok captains supporting AfriForum's memorandum against political interference and racial discrimination in rugby.\n\nOn 12 August 2008, Wynand Claassen and a delegation of former Springbok captains met with the South African Rugby Union as part of their campaign to express concerns and lobby against the use of race to determine team selection.\n\nIn this meeting they expressed their intent to send a memorandum to the International Rugby Board. They assert that racial discrimination in sport and team selection is in conflict with international sporting regulations.\n\nHis autobiography, \"More Than Just Rugby\" was published in 1985.\n\nWynand Claassen was an honorary host on the Amabokoboko Blue Train which departed in June 2009 on a rare and distinguished journey from Pretoria. He played host to exclusive guests en route to watch the \"Springboks\" vs the \"British & Irish Lions\" in their first test match in Durban.\n\nClaassen is also an architecture graduate and occasional artist. In a \"Sunday Times\" interview with Jani Allan he described his passion for architecture: \"I'm very interested in old architecture - I think it's a great pity that beautiful buildings that are part of our heritage are torn down to make way for great glass boxes.\" A self-portrait also accompanied the column.\n"}
