{"id": "46568643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46568643", "title": "Age Discrimination Act 2004", "text": "Age Discrimination Act 2004\n\nThe Age Discrimination Act 2004 is an Act of the Parliament of Australia that prohibits age discrimination in many areas including employment, education, accommodation and the provision of goods and services. Persons of any age can be discriminated against within the meaning of the act.\n\nSome exemptions are provided, including for religious organisations, charitable organisations and positive discrimination.\n\nComplaints of discrimination must first be made to the Australian Human Rights Commission (AHRC), where a conciliation process can be initiated. Filing a complaint is free. If the complaint is not resolved through the conciliation process, it can be taken to the Federal Court or the Federal Circuit Court.\n\nIn general, age discrimination is not a criminal offence. However, the Act creates criminal offences of discriminatory advertising, victimisation and failure to disclose statistical or actuarial data upon request by the President of the AHRC. \n\n"}
{"id": "430417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=430417", "title": "Ahmed Wali Karzai", "text": "Ahmed Wali Karzai\n\nKarzai was born in 1961 in the village of Karz in Kandahar Province, Afghanistan. He is the son of Abdul Ahad Karzai and brother of Hamid Karzai, Mahmud Karzai and Qayum Karzai. He attended Habibia High School in Kabul but was not able to finish his studies due to the Soviet–Afghan War. He travelled to neighbouring Pakistan and then immigrated to the United States. Wali Karzai managed an Afghan restaurant in Chicago that was owned by his family. Ahmad Wali returned to Pakistan in the late 1980s to help his father, Abdul Ahad.\n\nHe came to political prominence in Afghanistan following the US occupation of the country in 2001, where he was a key ally of the US military in the country's south. He was elected to the Kandahar Provincial Council in 2005 and exercised influence in the province to the extent that he was described as \"effectively the governor\". At the time of his death, he was the Council's chairman.\n\nA few days before his death, Ahmed Wali Karzai appeared on a British television programme, \"Afghanistan: The Unknown Country,\" presented by Lyse Doucet, at his home in Kandahar, talking about public perceptions of him. Doucet said: \"Like most strong men, he depended on family and fellow tribesmen to protect him.\"\n\nA June 2009 U.S. embassy cable alleged that much of the actual business of running the Afghan city of Kandahar \"takes place out of public sight, where Ahmed Wali Karzai operates, parallel to formal government structures, through a network of political clans that use state institutions to protect and enable licit and illicit enterprises.\" In addition, James Risen of \"The New York Times\" and others stated that Ahmed Wali Karzai may have been involved in the Afghan opium and heroin trade. This was denied by Karzai, who called the charges political propaganda and stated he was a \"victim of vicious politics.\"\n\nIn meetings with Afghan President Hamid Karzai, including a 2006 session with former US Ambassador to Afghanistan, Ronald E. Neumann, the CIA's station chief and their British counterparts, American officials talked about the rumors in hopes that the president might move his brother out of the country, said several people who took part in or were briefed on the talks. \"We thought the concern expressed to Karzai might be enough to get him out of there,\" one official said. President Karzai has resisted, however, demanding clear-cut evidence of wrongdoing, several officials said. \"We don't have the kind of hard, direct evidence that you could take to get a criminal indictment,\" a White House official said. Ahmed Wali Karzai dismissed the allegations as politically motivated attacks by longtime rival groups in his country.\n\nBefore the 2009 Afghan presidential election, Wali Karzai and Sher Mohammad Akhundzada, former governor of the Helmand Province and a member of the Upper House of the Afghan parliament, were accused of vote rigging. After the election, reports mentioned that all those running in the election were involved in electoral fraud.\n\nIn October 2009 \"The New York Times\" reported that Ahmed Wali Karzai received payments from the CIA for \"a variety of services\", including the recruitment of the Kandahar Strike Force, an Afghan paramilitary force run by the CIA in the Kandahar region. It also stated that he was paid for allowing the CIA and U.S. special forces to rent the former residence of Taliban supreme leader Mullah Omar. However, Karzai has denied taking any payment from the CIA. U.S. Senator John Kerry and former Afghan Ambassador to the United States, Said Tayeb Jawad, defended Karzai in recent years, Kerry saying \"We should not condemn Ahmed Wali Karzai or damage our critical relations with his brother, President Karzai, on the basis of newspaper articles or rumors\" and Jawad saying, \"There is presence of the intelligence, there's presence of many institutions of the United States and NATO countries in Afghanistan, why don't they come up with a clear evidence of any corruption involving the president or his family?\"\n\nKarzai survived a number of assassination attempts by Taliban militants and at least two attacks against his office in Kandahar: one in November 2008 and the other in April 2009. According to Karzai himself, he had survived a total of nine assassination attempts.\n\nOn 12 July 2011, Karzai was assassinated by his long-time head of security, Sardar Mohammad. Reports say that Wali was shot twice with a pistol, once in the head and once in the chest, as he was coming out of the bathroom inside his residence. Abdul Raziq, Police Chief of Kandahar, stated that the assailant Sardar Mohammad was well known by the Karzai family. He had served as Wali Karzai's most trusted security guard for the last seven years. \"As he entered Wali's room, Wali came out of his bathroom. Mohammad fired twice at Wali without any conversation passing between the two. Wali received one bullet in the chest and second in the head,\" Abdul Raziq said. The assailant was immediately killed by other bodyguards and then his body was hanged at a city square on public view. In the meantime, Karzai's body was taken to Mirwais Hospital in Kandahar.\n\nThousands of people turned up for his funeral the next day, led by Afghan President Hamid Karzai, and many more waited in buses where his body lay to be taken to his hometown of Karz. Security was tightened around the funeral procession and some reports indicated Hamid Karzai's elite security team were deployed to secure Kandahar, where the funeral was held. At the funeral procession Hamid Karzai issued a message to the Taliban: Hamid Karzai's spokesman Waheed Omer said that \"We know we live in a dangerous country. We know that security has to be tight all the time and the president knows [this]. He's got good security and that is not a worry for the president. The president is upset, he is still in grief, about the death of his brother. Wali was a very close brother of the president.\" En route to the funeral Helmand Governor Gulab Mangal escaped an assassination attempt, while later in the evening two more blasts went off in Kandahar. Though Hamid Karzai led the funeral procession, he was not present at a memorial service which was attacked by a suicide bomber killing the senior cleric of the mosque Hikmatullah Hikmat, the head of the Provincial Ulema Council, who died along with three others while 13 others were also wounded.\n\nPresident Hamid Karzai issued a statement on the day his brother died saying: \"My younger brother was martyred in his house today. This is the life of all Afghan people, I hope these miseries which every Afghan family faces will one day end\" Afghan families, every one of us, have suffered from it, and we hope, God willing, for our suffering to be over. US General David Petraeus as well as other top NATO personnel serving in Afghanistan, officials at the White House and many world leaders condemned the assassination.\n\nTaliban spokesman Qari Yousef Ahmadi claimed that one of their agents was behind the assassination saying, \"Today in Kandahar city, Hamid Karzai's brother was killed during the Operation al-Badr... We hired a person by the name of Sadar Mohammad, who was hired for this job for some time now. Ahmed Wali Karzai was punished for all his wrongdoings.\"\n\nHowever, according to \"The Christian Science Monitor\", the Taliban has \"a dubious record of claiming responsibility for attacks it had nothing to do with\", and its claim has been denied by several sources. Abdul Ghafar Sayedzada, head of the counter-terrorism department at the Interior Ministry, told Reuters that \"It appears Ahmed Wali Karzai has been killed by one of his bodyguard, and there was nobody from outside involved.\" The news was confirmed by Zalmai Ayubi, the spokesman for Kandahar province, as well as by Sediq Sediqqi, a spokesman for the Ministry of Interior. Following the killing, police were mobilised in Kandahar and helicopters were seen overhead as checkpoints were locked down leading towards the hospital his body was taken to.\n\nInvestigators believe that Sardar Mohammad may have been a Taliban sleeper agent or a government defector. Mahmud Karzai, Karzai's other brother, stated that Sardar Mohammad traveled to the Pakistani city of Quetta within the past three months to meet with the Shura Council of the Taliban. Mahmoud Karzai claimed that he has been acting very erratically in recent weeks, including sleeping poorly, moving from house to house during nights, acting suspiciously toward his men and demanding to know who they were talking to on their mobile phones. It suggests that he may have been using narcotics since the area is well known for opium production.\n\n"}
{"id": "2908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2908", "title": "Ahuitzotl", "text": "Ahuitzotl\n\nAhuitzotl (, ) was the eighth Aztec ruler, the \"Hueyi Tlatoani\" of the city of Tenochtitlan, son of princess Atotoztli II. He was responsible for much of the expansion of the Mexica domain, and consolidated the empire's power after emulating his predecessor. He took power as tlatoani in the year 7 Rabbit (1486), after the death of his predecessor and brother, Tizoc.\n\nHis sons were kings Chimalpilli II and Cuauhtémoc and he also had one daughter.\n\nPerhaps the greatest known military leader of Pre-Columbian Mesoamerica, Ahuizotl began his reign by suppressing a Huastec rebellion, and then swiftly more than doubled the size of lands under Aztec dominance. He conquered the Mixtec, Zapotec, and other peoples from Pacific Coast of Mexico down to the western part of Guatemala. Ahuizotl also supervised a major rebuilding of Tenochtitlan on a grander scale including the expansion of the Great Pyramid or Templo Mayor in the year 8 Reed (1487).\n\nHe presided over the introduction of the great-tailed grackle into the Valley of Mexico, the earliest documented case of human-mediated bird introduction in the Western Hemisphere.\n\nAhuizotl died in the year 10 Rabbit (1502) and was succeeded by his nephew, Moctezuma II.\n\nAhuizotl took his name from the animal ahuizotl, which the Aztecs considered to be a legendary creature in its own right rather than a mere mythical representation of the king.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35311267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35311267", "title": "Amplified conference", "text": "Amplified conference\n\nAn amplified conference is a conference or similar event in which the talks and discussions at the conference are 'amplified' through use of networked technologies in order to extend the reach of the conference deliberations. The term was originally coined by Lorcan Dempsey in a blog post. The term is now widely used within the academic and research community with Wankel proposing the following definition:\n\n\"The extension of a physical event (or a series of events) through the use of social media tools for expanding access to (aspects of) the event beyond physical and temporal bounds. Such amplification takes place in the context of intent to make the most of the intellectual content, discussion, networking, and discovery initiated by the event through the process of sharing with co-attendees, colleagues, friends and wider informed publics.\"\n\nA paper by illustrates how amplified conferences are becoming mainstream in a discussion on \"how social media have been employed as part of the project, particularly around event amplification\".\n\nAs described by Guy in the Ariadne ejournal the term is not a prescriptive one, but rather describes a pattern of behaviors which initially took place at IT and Web-oriented conferences once WiFi networks started to become available at conference venues and delegates started to bring with them networked devices such as laptops and, more recently, PDAs and mobile phones.\n\nThere are a number of ways in which conferences can be amplified through use of networked technologies:\n\n\nThe amplification of conferences can be viewed as an example of how new technologies are altering standard practice. By using these techniques a different type of interaction is created at the conference itself, but also the boundaries around the conference can be seen as permeable, with remote participants engaging in discussion. An amplified conference also provides a considerably altered archive compared with a 'traditional' one. For the latter, the printed proceedings will be the main record, but for an amplified event this record is distributed across many media and takes in a wider range of content types, including the papers, videos of the presentations (for example on YouTube), the slides (e.g. on Slideshare), photos of the event (Flickr), interaction between participants (Twitter), reflections and comments (blogs), etc. The amplified conference represents an example of changing practice in digital scholarship.\n"}
{"id": "21833844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21833844", "title": "Anne Elise Thompson", "text": "Anne Elise Thompson\n\nAnne Elise Thompson (born 1934) is a Senior United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey.\n\nBorn in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Thompson received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Howard University in 1955, a Master of Arts from Temple University in 1957, and a Bachelor of Laws from Howard University School of Law in 1964. She was an attorney in the Office of the Solicitor of the United States Department of Labor in Chicago, Illinois from 1964 to 1965. She was a grant writer for United Progress, Inc. from 1966 to 1967. She became an assistant deputy public defender for the New Jersey Office of the Public Defender in the Mercer-Somerset-Hunterdon Region of Trenton, New Jersey from 1967 to 1970. She was the Municipal Prosecutor for Lawrence Township in Lawrenceville, New Jersey from 1970 to 1972. She was a municipal court judge for the City of Trenton, New Jersey from 1972 to 1975. She was a prosecutor for Mercer County, New Jersey from 1975 to 1979.\n\nOn September 28, 1979, Thompson was nominated by President Jimmy Carter to a new seat on the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey created by 92 Stat. 1629. She was confirmed by the United States Senate on October 31, 1979, and received her commission on November 2, 1979. She served as Chief Judge from 1994 to 2001, and assumed senior status on June 1, 2001.\n"}
{"id": "18021789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18021789", "title": "Arameans Suryoye football team", "text": "Arameans Suryoye football team\n\nThe Arameans Suryoye football team is the representative football team for Syriacs (Arameans) worldwide. They are not affiliated with FIFA or Asian Football Confederation, and therefore cannot compete for the FIFA World Cup or Asian Cup. The team played in the 2008 VIVA World Cup reaching the final which they lost 2–0 to Padania.\nThe team played in the CONIFA World Football Cup 2014 in Östersund, Sweden, and won bronze medal in the game against South Ossetia with 1–4.\n\n"}
{"id": "46953139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46953139", "title": "Asociación Nacional de Mujeres Españolas", "text": "Asociación Nacional de Mujeres Españolas\n\nThe Asociación Nacional de Mujeres Españolas (ANME), was a women's rights organisation active in Spain from 1918 to 1936.\n\nIt was not the first women's rights movement in Spain, but was to last longer than any of its predecessors. It was founded in Madrid in 1918 by Consuelo Gonzalez Ramos and Maria Espinosa de los Monteros. Its purpose was to work for women's rights, particularly women suffrage. It had no support from the Catholic church or any political party, and relied on contributes from sympathizers, and had its meetings on the home of its presidents. In 1919, the ANME founded the umbrella organisation Consejo Feminista de España together with the other smaller women's organisations: the Sociedad Progresiva Femenina and La Mujer del Porvenir in Barcelona, and the Sociedad Concepción Arenal and Liga para el Progreso de la Mujer in Valencia.\n\nFrom 1921, it published its own paper, the \"Mundo Femenino\".\n\nIn 1934, the organisation founded a political feminist party, the Acción Política Feminista Independiente, who tried unsuccessfully to join the leftist coalition. Both the party and the organisation was dissolved under the Spanish civil war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5164145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5164145", "title": "Australian Computer Society", "text": "Australian Computer Society\n\nThe Australian Computer Society (ACS) is an association for information and communications technology professionals with over 26,000 members Australia-wide. According to its Constitution, its objects are \"to advance professional excellence in information technology\" and \"to promote the development of Australian information and communications technology resources\".\n\nThe ACS was formed on 1 January 1966 from five state based societies. It was formally incorporated in the Australian Capital Territory on 3 October 1967. Since 1983 there have been chapters in every state and territory.\n\nThe ACS is a member of the Australian Council of Professions (\"Professions Australia\"), the peak body for professional associations in Australia. Internationally, ACS is a member of the International Professional Practice Partnership (IP3), South East Asia Regional Computer Confederation, International Federation for Information Processing and The Seoul Accord.\n\nThe ACS is also a member organisation of the Federation of Enterprise Architecture Professional Organizations (FEAPO), a worldwide association of professional organisations which have come together to provide a forum to standardise, professionalise, and otherwise advance the discipline of Enterprise Architecture.\n\nThe ACS operates various chapters, annual conferences,\nSpecial Interest Groups, and a professional development program. Members are required to comply with a Code of Ethics and a Code of Professional Conduct.\n\nThe ACS describes itself as \"the professional association for Australia's Information and Communication Technology (ICT) sector\" and \"Australia's primary representative body for the ICT workforce\", but industry analysts have questioned this based on the small percentage of IT professionals who are ACS members. The issue has been discussed in the press since at least 2004, and in 2013 the Sydney Morning Herald wrote that \"the ACS aggressively seeks to control the important software engineering profession in Australia, but ... less than 5 per cent of the professional IT workforce belongs to the ACS.\" The ACS Foundation came up with a slightly higher figure: \"Depending on the data used to calculate the number of ICT professionals in Australia, however, [ACS] membership represents approximately 6.5 per cent of the total.\"\n\nThe Australian Computer Society elects its National President every two years, who serves as the leader of the Society. Some of the most recent presidents include:\n\nThe Young IT Professionals Board of the Australian Computer Society provides a voice for young IT professionals and students, as well as a range of services and benefits for members. Currently Young IT organises and runs a bi-annual YIT International Conference and other events such as local career days, soft skills and technical seminars, networking opportunities and social events (e.g. Young IT in the Pub) in each of the Australian States.\n\nThe most recent Young IT Conference was held in Melbourne in 2014.\n\n\"Information Age\" is the official publication of the ACS. In February 2015 Information Age became an online only publication. Peer reviewed research publications of the ACS include:\nThe Digital Library contains free journal articles and conference papers.\n\n\nSpecial Interest Groups (SIGs) of the ACS are connected to each state branch with some SIGs of the same or similar name occurring in a number of states, depending on local interest, and include: Architects, Software Quality Assurance, Women in Technology, Business Requirements Analysis, Enterprise Capacity Management, Enterprise Solution Development, Free Open Source Software, Information Security, IT Management, Project Management, Service Oriented Computing, Web Services, Consultants and Contractors, IT Security, PC Recycling, Curry SIG, Information Technology in Education, Robotics, E-Commerce, IT Governance, Software Engineering and Cloud Computing. A recent addition is the Green ICT Group on computers and telecommunications for environmental sustainability. In 2007 the Telecommunications Society of Australia was absorbed into the Australian Computer Society as the Telecommunications Special Interest Group\n\nThe ACS runs the online Computer Professional Education Program (CPEP) for postgraduate education in subjects including: Green ICT Strategies; New Technology Alignment; Business, Strategy & IT; Adaptive Business Intelligence; Project Management; Managing Technology and Operations. CPEP uses the Australian developed Moodle course management system and is delivered via the web.\n\nThe Diploma of Information Technology (DIT) is equivalent to one academic year of a Bachelor of Information Technology at several universities. It has eight compulsory subjects: systems analysis, programming, computer organisation, data management, OO systems development, computer communications, professional practice and systems principles.\n\nThe ACS also certifies IT professionals at two levels, the Certified Professional and the Certified Technologist. Each certification level has a minimum level of experience and also required ongoing CPD (Certified Professional Development) hours of learning each year. In 2017 the ACS launched a cybersecurity specialisation within the certification framework.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28173904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28173904", "title": "Bhutta caste", "text": "Bhutta caste\n\nThe Bhutta are a community found in Pakistan and India. They may be classified as either Jat or Rajput. They are predominantly Muslim with large Hindu and small Sikh minorities, respectively.\n\nthe Bhutta tribe conquered a large part of what is today Dera Ghazi Khan District and established themselves at Jampur .\n\nthe Bhutta tribe conquered a large part of what is today [Bahawalpur District] and established themselves at Uch Sharief .\n"}
{"id": "36865726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36865726", "title": "Confession", "text": "Confession\n\nA confession is a statement – made by a person or by a group of persons – acknowledging some personal fact that the person (or the group) would ostensibly prefer to keep hidden. The term presumes that the speaker is providing information that he believes the other party is not already aware of, and is frequently associated with an admission of a moral or legal wrong:\nNot all confessions reveal wrongdoing, however. For example, a confession of love is often considered positive both by the confessor and by the recipient of the confession, and is a common theme in literature. With respect to confessions of wrongdoing, there are several specific kinds of confessions that have significance beyond the social. A legal confession involves an admission of some wrongdoing that has legal consequence, while the concept of confession in religion varies widely across various belief systems, and is usually more akin to a ritual by which the person acknowledges thoughts or actions considered sinful or morally wrong within the confines of the confessor's religion. In some religions, confession takes the form of an oral communication to another person. Socially, however, the term may refer to admissions that are neither legally nor religiously significant.\n\nConfession often benefits the one who is confessing . Paul Wilkes characterizes confession as \"a pillar of mental health\" because of its ability to relieve anxieties associated with keeping secrets.\nConfessants are more likely to confess when the expected benefits outweigh the marginal costs (when the benefit of the offense to them is high, the cost to the victim is low, and the probability of information leakage is high). People may undertake social confessions in order to relieve feelings of guilt or to seek forgiveness from a wronged party, but such confessions may also serve to create social bonds between the confessant and the confessor, and may prompt the listener to reply with confessions of their own. A person may therefore confess wrongdoing to another person as a means of creating such a social bond, or of extracting reciprocal information from the other person. A confession may be made in a self-aggrandizing manner, as a way for the confessant to claim credit for a misdeed for the purpose of eliciting a reaction to that claim.\n\nIn law, there is an exception to the hearsay rule that allows testimony concerning someone else's confession to be admitted if the statement had a great enough tendency \"to expose the declarant to civil or criminal liability\". The theory is that a reasonable person would not make such a false confession. In U.S. law, a confession must be voluntary in order to be admissible.\n\nConfessions (whether forced or otherwise) may feature in formal or informal show trials.\n\nPublic confessions play a role in struggle sessions\nand in other methods of social control and influence involving self-criticism.\n\n"}
{"id": "15181251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15181251", "title": "Crime in Italy", "text": "Crime in Italy\n\nCrime in Italy is combated by the spectrum of Italian law enforcement agencies.\n\nIn 2012, national murder rate was about 0.9 per 100,000 population, one of the lower rates in Western Europe. There were a total of 530 murders in Italy in 2012.\n\nMany worldwide crime organizations originated in Italy, and its influence is widespread in Italian society, directly affecting a reported 22% of citizens and 14.6% of Italy's Gross Domestic Product. Public figures such as former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi have been charged with association in organized criminal acts. War against organized crime caused hundreds of murders, including judges (Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino) and lawyers (like Roberto Calvi).\n\nThere are several separate criminal organizations controlling territory and business activities: Sicilian \"Cosa Nostra\", Campanian \"Camorra\", Calabrese \"'Ndrangheta\" and Apulian \"Sacra Corona Unita\". More than 13 million people are involved into crime web. Their business involvement is on a European and global scale. Particularly in Naples an unusual high homicide rate and several drug addicted people have qualified the town as the most dangerous in West Europe.\n\nBusinesses, entrepreneurs, shopkeepers, and craftsmen in these regions are expected to pay a \"protection money\". There is rarely any possibility of escaping payment, and those not complying find their business premises and lives at risk. People not able to meet demands might find their business partly or completely taken over by organized crime.\n\nIn 2009, organized crime in Italy generated $189 billion in revenue.\n\nItaly has a lower per capita rate of rape than most of the advanced Western countries in the European Union.\n\nAccording to Police authorities data, the rate of sexual assaults per 100,000 inhabitants is significantly higher in the Northern region than in the Southern ones. In 2009, Lombardia and Emilia Romagna were the regions with the highest rate of sexual offences per 100.000 inhabitants (9.7); followed by Trentino Alto Adige and Tuscany (9.5); Piedmont and Liguria (8.6); Umbria (8.4). In this respect, all major Southern regions like Sicily (6.8); Calabria (6.5); Puglia (6.2); Campania (6,0) were the safest in the national territory, with the only exception of Friuli Venezia Giulia (5.1) in the North.\n\nFraud is a major contributor to Italy's crime rate, with some level of fraud appearing in all sectors of the economy since the country's founding in 1861. Notable cases of financial fraud include the collapse of Parmalat in the early years of the 21st century, and the Lockheed bribery scandal in the 1970s.\nInsurance fraud also dramatically increases the cost of insurance in Italy, with 115,646 incidents of fraudulent claims in 2001 alone, with 3.28 percent of all claims in 2002 ascertained to have involved fraud. The percentage rose above ten percent in some of the southern provinces.\n\nState employees have been perceived to have such a high rate of absenteeism, often feigning illness, that in 2008 the government introduced a law to harshly prosecute civil servants who are found to be making fraudulent claims about their health.\nFraudulent claims of ill health are not confined to state employees, with some physicians often willing to receive bribes to certify non-existent conditions so that citizens may receive disability benefits. A case was revealed in 2010 where in one quartiere of Naples alone, 400 people were found to be claiming mental illness although healthy.\n\nPolitical corruption remains a major problem in Italy, particularly in Southern Italy including Calabria, parts of Campania and Sicily where corruption perception is at a high level. Political parties are ranked as the most corrupt institution in Italy, closely followed by public officials and Parliament, according to Transparency International's Global Corruption Barometer 2013.\n\nLevels of crime are unevenly spread throughout the peninsula.\n\nTraditionally, the areas most affected by high levels of violent crime have been the Southern regions heavily influenced by powerful criminal organizations: Sicily, Calabria, Campania and Apulia, where drug trade and gang feuds are common in marginalised areas in underdeveloped rural and urban settings alike.\n\nWaste management problems affected Naples; Italian media have attributed the city's waste disposal issues to the activity of the Camorra organised crime network. In 2007, Silvio Berlusconi's government held senior meetings in Naples to demonstrate their intention to solve these problems. \nIn December 2009 \"waste emergency\" officially finished.\nIn June 2012, allegations of blackmail, extortion and illicit contract tendering emerged in relation to the city's waste management issues.\n\nMost regions in the center and north can be considered calmer and more organized, with lower levels of criminal activity. Regions such as Marche, Tuscany, Umbria in the centre and Piedmont, Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol, Liguria and Friuli Venezia Giulia present relatively low criminal indicators compared to other western countries.\nBut even in the north and center levels of crime are unequally spread. Cities such as Turin, Milan, Bologna, Genoa in the North frequently suffer a wide diversity of frequent offences ranging from extensive drug trade, homicides, etc.\n\nThe capital Rome presents medium to high levels of crime. But many areas of the Roman periphery are extensively dilapidated and crime-ridden to a much larger extent than northern and central European counterparts. Shantytowns on the outskirts of the city housing more than 4000 people are focuses of elevated criminal activity.\n\nPetty crimes such as pick pocketing, car burglary, and purse snatching are serious problems, especially in large cities. Most reported thefts occur at crowded tourist sites, on public buses or trains, or at the major railway stations.\n\n"}
{"id": "31981548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31981548", "title": "Crime in Serbia", "text": "Crime in Serbia\n\nCrime in Serbia is combated by the Serbian Police and other government agencies.\n\nIn 2012, Serbia had a murder rate of 1.2 per 100,000 population. There were a total of 111 murders in Serbia in 2012.\n\nSerbian Organised Crime ( / \"Srpska Mafija\", \"Serbian Mafia\") are various criminal organisations based in Serbia or composed of ethnic Serbs. Serbian criminals are active in the European Union (EU) countries. The organisations are primarily involved in smuggling, arms trafficking, drug trafficking, protection racket, illegal gambling, jewelry and gems theft, bodyguarding, and contract killing. The Mafia is composed of several major organised groups, which in turn have wider networks throughout primarily Europe.\n\nThe Yugoslav Wars prompted criminals a \"way out\" of economic disaster during the international imposed sanctions against Serbia. Serbian criminals have been recruited to state security forces, a notable example is Legija, a commander in the Arkan's Tigers which after the war was re-labeled as the JSO (\"Red Berets\"), he planned the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Đinđić.\n\nCorruption levels are perceived to be high by surveyed residents of Serbia, and public trust in key institutions remains low.\n\nPublic procurement, public administration recruitment processes, mining and rail operations are sectors with a serious problem of conflict of interest. The European Commission has raised concern over Serbia's judiciary, police, health and education sectors that are particularly vulnerable to corruption. Transparency Serbia estimated in September 2016 that at least 374,000 cases of \"petty corruption\" in public services remain undiscovered every year.\n\nPiracy in Serbia is increasing in intensity in 2000s and 2010s. Especially threatened is the shipping on the part of Danube between Belgrade and Smederevo. Most commonly, pirates will plunder bulk cargo such as oil, coke, metals, grains, sugar or fertilizers, but sometimes also remove cables and electric motors from the ships.\n\nThe confrontations of the pirates with the crews rarely escalate, with a single shipman murder recorded, in late-2000s. This is, in part, because crews will often cooperate with the pirates, sell part of the cargo, then report the piracy in order to receive insurance money. Cases of cooperation of the pirates with the police have also been recorded.\n\nThe pirates will also often engage in smuggling fuel and other goods across Danube.\n\nFalse bomb threats are relatively common in Serbia. Since the police reacts to every bomb threat by searching the entire buildings for the possible bomb, most common targets are schools where students will phone in a threat to delay their exams, and courts where people expecting to lose a trial will phone in to delay it. Due to false bomb threats, the building of the High Court in Belgrade had to be evacuated more than 70 times in 2008\n\nLess common targets include those as diverse as Belgrade firefighters' headquarters, a residential building or Kraljevo public library.\n\nFrequency of the false bomb threats was reduced in 2009, after a new law specified harsher, triplified, punishments.\n\nSerbian law enforcement authorities have prioritised fighting drug trafficking, terrorism and organised crime during the late 2000s.\n"}
{"id": "47076761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47076761", "title": "Design Indaba", "text": "Design Indaba\n\nDesign Indaba is a trademark and brand founded and run by Interactive Africa in 1995 with a focus on design and under the slogan \"A better world through creativity\". Consisting of an online publication and a series of events and creative projects, it is most widely known for its annual festival held in South Africa, in particular the flagship three-day conference hosted in Cape Town. The Design Indaba Conference is also broadcast live to various cities, most recently including Johannesburg, Durban, Nairobi, Windhoek, Kampala and Lausanne. It has also been referred to as the \"Conference on Creativity\".\n\nDesign Indaba was founded with the inaugural conference in 1995, which hosted 11 speakers over two days. It has since grown to host over 30 speakers from all over the globe and has been named by many to be one of the best creative conferences in the world. In its list of top \"52 Places to Go in 2014\", The New York Times touted Design Indaba as \"the annual visual arts spectacular\" and part of the city's creative renaissance.\n\nThe Design Indaba Conference is just one part of a weeklong creative festival, known now as the Design Indaba Festival. In its entirety the Design Indaba Festival comprises the conference, a film festival, a series of exhibitions including the annual Emerging Creatives programme\n, and various music events and other performances. The main event takes place in Cape Town, most recently at the Artscape Theatre Centre, and various cities in Africa and Europe also host a simulcast of the conference and peripheral exhibitions and events.\n\nThe Design Indaba Conference has been held in Cape Town since 1995, biannually until 2001 and annually since then. Speakers at the conference represent a broad spectrum of design and the creative industries, with a focus on international thought leadership and innovative problem solving, in keeping with the company ethos of \"A better world through creativity\". Alongside professionals from traditional design disciplines such as architecture, product design, graphic and communication design, fashion, furniture design, design thinking and design education, the programme of recent years has included chefs, musicians, visual artists, filmmakers and founders of creative businesses on the list of Design Indaba speakers. Together the three-day Cape Town conference and simulcast host 4,500 people.\n\nLargely funded by the Design Indaba Trust and independent sponsorships, Design Indaba Do Tank consists of projects and initiatives designed for the greater good. These include the Your Street Challenge, the 10x10 Low-Cost Housing Project, Another Light Up, Sonop and Arch For Arch monument in honour of Archbishop Desmond Tutu.\n\n"}
{"id": "16711198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16711198", "title": "Domestic violence in Colombia", "text": "Domestic violence in Colombia\n\nDomestic violence in Colombia, although prohibited by law, remains a serious problem. Since the 1990s, Colombia has started to tackle this problem. Article 42 of the Constitution of Colombia provides that “Family relations are based on the equality of rights and duties of the couple and on the mutual respect of all its members. Any form of violence in the family is considered destructive of its harmony and unity, and will be sanctioned according to law.” Acts of domestic violence can be charged under a variety of laws, and victims can obtain protection orders. Despite this, the prevailing view continues to be that domestic violence should be treated as a \"private\" matter; and the laws are often unenforced.\n\nIn the 1990s, Colombia enacted \"Ley 294 de 1996\", in order to fight domestic violence. In 2008, \"Ley 1257 de 2008\", a comprehensive law against violence against women was enacted. Marital rape was criminalized in 1996.\n\nAlthough Colombia has many laws against domestic violence, under specific legislation, and also under the Penal Code, the public opinion continues to see domestic violence as something private, that must be solved without legal punishment: a study found that 64% of public officials in Colombia said that if it were in their hands to solve a case of intimate partner violence, the action they would take would be to encourage the parties to reconcile.\n\nThe Institute for Legal Medicine and Forensic Science reported approximately 33,000 cases of domestic violence against women during 2006. It noted that only a small percentage of cases were brought to its attention. The law stipulates that the government must provide victims of domestic violence with immediate protection from physical or psychological abuse. The ICBF provided safe houses and counseling for victims, but its services were dwarfed by the magnitude of the problem. \n\nIn addition to fulfilling traditional family counseling functions, ICBF family ombudsmen handled domestic violence cases. The Colombia Ombudsman's Office of Human Rights conducted regional training workshops to promote the application of domestic violence statutes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1055517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1055517", "title": "Economy of Africa", "text": "Economy of Africa\n\nThe economy of Africa consists of the trade, industry, agriculture, and human resources of the continent. , approximately 1.07 billion people were living in 54 different countries in Africa. Africa is a resource-rich continent. Recent growth has been due to growth in sales in commodities, services, and manufacturing. Sub-Saharan Africa, in particular, is expected to reach a GDP of $29 trillion by 2050.\n\nIn March 2013, Africa was identified as the world's poorest inhabited continent: Africa's entire combined GDP is barely a third of the United States' GDP; however, the World Bank expects that most African countries will reach \"middle income\" status (defined as at least US$1,000 per person a year) by 2025 if current growth rates continue. In 2013, Africa was the world’s fastest-growing continent at 5.6% a year, and GDP is expected to rise by an average of over 6% a year between 2013 and 2023. In 2017, the African Development Bank reported Africa to be the world’s second-fastest growing economy, and estimates that average growth will rebound to 3.4% in 2017, while growth is expected to increase by 4.3% in 2018.\n\nGrowth has been present throughout the continent, with over one-third of Sub-Saharan Africa countries posting 6% or higher growth rates, and another 40% growing between 4% to 6% per year. Several international business observers have also named Africa as the future economic growth engine of the world.\n\nAfrica's economy was diverse, driven by extensive trade routes that developed between cities and kingdoms. Some trade routes were overland, some involved navigating rivers, still others developed around port cities. Large African empires became wealthy due to their trade networks, for example Ancient Egypt, Nubia, Mali, Ashanti, and the Oyo Empire.\n\nSome parts of Africa had close trade relationships with Arab kingdoms, and by the time of the Ottoman Empire, Africans had begun converting to Islam in large numbers. This development, along with the economic potential in finding a trade route to the Indian Ocean, brought the Portuguese to sub-Saharan Africa as an imperial force. Colonial interests created new industries to feed European appetites for goods such as palm oil, rubber, cotton, precious metals, spices, cash crops other goods, and integrated especially the coastal areas with the Atlantic economy.\n\nFollowing the independence of African countries during the 20th century, economic, political and social upheaval consumed much of the continent. An economic rebound among some countries has been evident in recent years, however.\n\nThe dawn of the African economic boom (which is in place since the 2000s) has been compared to the Chinese economic boom that had emerged in Asia since late 1970's. In 2013, Africa was home to seven of the world's fastest-growing economies.\n\nAs of 2018, Nigeria is the biggest economy in terms of nominal GDP, followed by South Africa; in terms of PPP, Egypt is second biggest after Nigeria.. Equatorial Guinea possessed Africa's highest GDP per capita albeit allegations of human rights violations. Oil-rich countries such as Algeria, Libya and Gabon, and mineral-rich Botswana emerged among the top economies since the 21st century, while Zimbabwe and the Democratic Republic of Congo, potentially among the world's richest nations, have sunk into the list of the world's poorest nations due to pervasive political corruption, warfare and braindrain of workforce. Botswana remains the site of Africa's longest and one of the world's longest periods of economic boom (1966–1999).\n\n The United Nations predicts Africa’s economic growth will reach 3.5% in 2018 and 3.7% in 2019. As of 2007, growth in Africa had surpassed that of East Asia. Data suggest parts of the continent are now experiencing fast growth, thanks to their resources and increasing political stability and 'has steadily increased levels of peacefulness since 2007'. The World Bank reports the economy of Sub-Saharan African countries grew at rates that match or surpass global rates. According to the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, the improvement in the region’s aggregate growth is largely attributable to a recovery in Egypt, Nigeria and South Africa, three of Africa’s largest economies.\n\nThe economies of the fastest growing African nations experienced growth significantly above the global average rates. The top nations in 2007 include Mauritania with growth at 19.8%, Angola at 17.6%, Sudan at 9.6%, Mozambique at 7.9% and Malawi at 7.8%. Other fast growers include Rwanda, Mozambique, Chad, Niger, Burkina Faso, Ethiopia. Nonetheless, growth has been dismal, negative or sluggish in many parts of Africa including Zimbabwe, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Republic of the Congo and Burundi. Many international agencies are increasingly interested in investing in emerging African economies. especially as Africa continues to maintain high economic growth despite current global economic recession.\nThe rate of return on investment in Africa is currently the highest in the developing world.\n\nDebt relief is being addressed by some international institutions in the interests of supporting economic development in Africa. In 1996, the UN sponsored the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative, subsequently taken up by the IMF, World Bank and the African Development Fund (AfDF) in the form of the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI). As of 2013, the initiative has given partial debt relief to 30 African countries.\n\nTrade has driven much of the growth in Africa's economy in the early 21st century. China and India are increasingly important trade partners; 12.5% of Africa's exports are to China, and 4% are to India, which accounts for 5% of China's imports and 8% of India's. The Group of Five (Indonesia, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, and the United Arab Emirates) are another increasingly important market for Africa's exports.\n\nAfrica's economy—with expanding trade, English language skills (official in many Sub-Saharan countries), improving literacy and education, availability of splendid resources and cheaper labour force—is expected to continue to perform better into the future. Trade between Africa and China stood at US$166 billion in 2011.\n\nAfrica will only experience a \"demographic dividend\" by 2035, when its young and growing labour force will have fewer children and retired people as dependents as a proportion of the population, making it more demographically comparable to the US and Europe. It is becoming a more educated labour force, with nearly half expected to have some secondary-level education by 2020. A consumer class is also emerging in Africa and is expected to keep booming. Africa has around 90 million people with household incomes exceeding $5,000, meaning that they can direct more than half of their income towards discretionary spending rather than necessities. This number could reach a projected 128 million by 2020.\n\nDuring the President of the United States Barack Obama's visit to Africa in July 2013, he announced a US$7 billion plan to further develop infrastructure and work more intensively with African heads of state. A new program named Trade Africa, designed to boost trade within the continent as well as between Africa and the U.S., was also unveiled by Obama.\n\nThe seemingly intractable nature of Africa's poverty has led to debate concerning its root causes. Endemic warfare and unrest, widespread corruption, and despotic regimes are both causes and effects of the continued economic problems. The decolonization of Africa was fraught with instability aggravated by cold war conflict. Since the mid-20th century, the Cold War and increased corruption and despotism have also contributed to Africa's poor economy.\n\nAccording to the researchers at the Overseas Development Institute, the lack of infrastructure in many developing countries represents one of the most significant limitations to economic growth and achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Infrastructure investments and maintenance can be very expensive, especially in such areas as landlocked, rural and sparsely populated countries in Africa.\n\nIt has been argued that infrastructure investments contributed to more than half of Africa's improved growth performance between 1990 and 2005 and increased investment is necessary to maintain growth and tackle poverty. The returns to investment in infrastructure are very significant, with on average 30–40% returns for telecommunications (ICT) investments, over 40% for electricity generation, and 80% for roads.\n\nIn Africa, it is argued that to meet the MDGs by 2015, infrastructure investments would need to reach about 15% of GDP (around $93 billion a year). Currently, the source of financing varies significantly across sectors. Some sectors are dominated by state spending, others by overseas development aid (ODA) and yet others by private investors. In sub-Saharan Africa, the state spends around $9.4 billion out of a total of $24.9 billion.\n\nIn irrigation, SSA states represent almost all spending; in transport and energy a majority of investment is state spending; in Information and communication technologies and water supply and sanitation, the private sector represents the majority of capital expenditure. Overall, aid, the private sector and non-OECD financiers between them exceed state spending. The private sector spending alone equals state capital expenditure, though the majority is focused on ICT infrastructure investments. External financing increased from $7 billion (2002) to $27 billion (2009). China, in particular, has emerged as an important investor.\n\nThe economic impact of the colonization of Africa has been debated. In this matter, the opinions are biased between\nresearchers, some of them consider that Europeans had a positive impact on Africa; others affirm that Africa's development was slowed down by colonial rule. The principal aim of colonial rule in Africa by European colonial powers was to exploit natural wealth in the African continent at a low cost. Some writers, such as Walter Rodney in his book \"How Europe Underdeveloped Africa\", argue that these colonial policies are directly responsible for many of Africa's modern problems. Critics of colonialism charge colonial rule with injuring African pride, self-worth and belief in themselves. Other post-colonial scholars, most notably Frantz Fanon continuing along this line, have argued that the true effects of colonialism are psychological and that domination by a foreign power creates a lasting sense of inferiority and subjugation that creates a barrier to growth and innovation. Such arguments posit that a new generation of Africans free of colonial thought and mindset is emerging and that this is driving economic transformation.\n\nHistorians L. H. Gann and Peter Duignan have argued that Africa probably benefited from colonialism on balance. Although it had its faults, colonialism was probably \"one of the most efficacious engines for cultural diffusion in world history\". These views, however, are controversial and are rejected by some who, on balance, see colonialism as bad. The economic historian David Kenneth Fieldhouse has taken a kind of middle position, arguing that the effects of colonialism were actually limited and their main weakness wasn't in deliberate underdevelopment but in what it failed to do. Niall Ferguson agrees with his last point, arguing that colonialism's main weaknesses were \"sins of omission\". Analysis of the economies of African states finds that independent states such as Liberia and Ethiopia did not have better economic performance than their post-colonial counterparts. In particular the economic performance of former British colonies was better than both independent states and former French colonies.\n\nAfrica's relative poverty predates colonialism. Jared Diamond argues in Guns, Germs, and Steel that Africa has always been poor due to a number of ecological factors affecting historical development. These factors include low population density, lack of domesticated livestock and plants and the North-South orientation of Africa's geography. However Diamond's theories have been criticized by some including James Morris Blaut as a form of environmental determinism. Historian John K. Thornton argues that sub-Saharan Africa was relatively wealthy and technologically advanced until at least the seventeenth century. Some scholars who believe that Africa was generally poorer than the rest of the world throughout its history make exceptions for certain parts of Africa. Acemoglue and Robinson, for example, argue that most of Africa has always been relatively poor, but \"Aksum, Ghana, Songhay, Mali, [and] Great Zimbabwe... were probably as developed as their contemporaries anywhere in the world.\" A number of people including Rodney and Joseph E. Inikori have argued that the poverty of Africa at the onset of the colonial period was principally due to the demographic loss associated with the slave trade as well as other related societal shifts. Others such as J. D. Fage and David Eltis have rejected this view.\n\nAfrican countries suffer from communication difficulties caused by language diversity. Greenberg's diversity index is the chance that two randomly selected people would have different mother tongues. Out of the most diverse 25 countries according to this index, 18 (72%) are African. This includes 12 countries for which Greenberg's diversity index exceeds 0.9, meaning that a pair of randomly selected people will have less than 10% chance of having the same mother tongue. However, the primary language of government, political debate, academic discourse, and administration is often the language of the former colonial powers; English, French, or Portuguese.\n\nDependency theory asserts that the wealth and prosperity of the superpowers and their allies in Europe, North America and East Asia is dependent upon the poverty of the rest of the world, including Africa. Economists who subscribe to this theory believe that poorer regions must break their trading ties with the developed world in order to prosper.\n\nLess radical theories suggest that economic protectionism in developed countries hampers Africa's growth. When developing countries have harvested agricultural produce at low cost, they generally do not export as much as would be expected. Abundant farm subsidies and high import tariffs in the developed world, most notably those set by Japan, the European Union's Common Agricultural Policy, and the United States Department of Agriculture, are thought to be the cause. Although these subsidies and tariffs have been gradually reduced, they remain high.\n\nLocal conditions also affect exports; state over-regulation in several African nations can prevent their own exports from becoming competitive. Research in Public Choice economics such as that of Jane Shaw suggest that protectionism operates in tandem with heavy State intervention combining to depress economic development. Farmers subject to import and export restrictions cater to localized markets, exposing them to higher market volatility and fewer opportunities. When subject to uncertain market conditions, farmers press for governmental intervention to suppress competition in their markets, resulting in competition being driven out of the market. As competition is driven out of the market, farmers innovate less and grow less food further undermining economic performance.\n\nAlthough Africa and Asia had similar levels of income in the 1960s, Asia has since outpaced Africa, with the exception of a few extremely poor and war-torn countries like Afghanistan and Yemen. One school of economists argues that Asia's superior economic development lies in local investment. Corruption in Africa consists primarily of extracting economic rent and moving the resulting financial capital overseas instead of investing at home; the stereotype of African dictators with Swiss bank accounts is often accurate. University of Massachusetts Amherst researchers estimate that from 1970 to 1996, capital flight from 30 sub-Saharan countries totalled $187bn, exceeding those nations' external debts. This disparity in development is consistent with the model theorized by economist Mancur Olson. Because governments were politically unstable and new governments often confiscated their predecessors' assets, officials would stash their wealth abroad, out of reach of any future expropriation.\n\nSocialist governments influenced by Marxism, and the land reform they have enacted, have also contributed to economic stagnation in Africa. For example, the regime of Robert Mugabe in Zimbabwe, particularly the land seizures from white farmers, led to the collapse of the country's agricultural economy, which had formerly been one of Africa's strongest; Mugabe had been previously supported by the USSR during the Rhodesian Bush War. In Tanzania, socialist President Julius Nyerere resigned in 1985 after his policies of agricultural collectivisation in 1971 led to economic collapse, with famine only being averted by generous aid from the IMF and other foreign entities. Tanzania was left as one of the world's poorest and most aid-dependent nations, and has taken decades to recover. Since the abolition of the socialist one-party state in 1992 and the transition to democracy, Tanzania has experienced rapid economic growth, with growth of 6.5% in 2017.\n\nFood shipments in case of dire local shortage are generally uncontroversial; but as Amartya Sen has shown, most famines involve a local lack of income rather than of food. In such situations, food aid—as opposed to financial aid—has the effect of destroying local agriculture and serves mainly to benefit Western agribusiness which are vastly overproducing food as a result of agricultural subsidies.\n\nHistorically, food aid is more highly correlated with excess supply in Western countries than with the needs of developing countries. Foreign aid has been an integral part of African economic development since the 1980s.\n\nThe aid model has been criticized for supplanting trade initiatives. Growing evidence shows that foreign aid has made the continent poorer. One of the biggest critics of the aid development model is economist Dambiso Moyo (a Zambian economist based in the US), who introduced the Dead Aid model, which highlights how foreign aid has been a deterrent for local development.\n\nToday, Africa faces the problem of attracting foreign aid in areas where there is potential for high income from demand. It is in need of more economic policies and active participation in the world economy. As globalization has heightened the competition for foreign aid among developing countries, Africa has been trying to improve its struggle to receive foreign aid by taking more responsibility at the regional and international level. In addition, Africa has created the ‘Africa Action Plan’ in order to obtain new relationships with development partners to share responsibilities regarding discovering ways to receive aid from foreign investors.\n\nThe African Union is the largest international economic grouping on the continent. The confederation's goals include the creation of a free trade area, a customs union, a single market, a central bank, and a common currency (see African Monetary Union), thereby establishing economic and monetary union. The current plan is to establish an African Economic Community with a single currency by 2023. The African Investment Bank is meant to stimulate development. The AU plans also include a transitional African Monetary Fund leading to an African Central Bank. Some parties support development of an even more unified United States of Africa.\n\nInternational monetary and banking unions include:\nMajor economic unions are shown in the chart below.\n\nAfter an initial rebound from the 2009 world economic crisis, Africa’s economy was undermined in the year 2011 by the Arab uprisings. The continent’s growth fell back from 5% in 2010 to 3.4% in 2011. With the recovery of North African economies and sustained improvement in other regions, growth across the continent is expected to accelerate to 4.5% in 2012 and 4.8% in 2013. Short-term problems for the world economy remain as Europe confronts its debt crisis. Commodity prices—crucial for Africa—have declined from their peak due to weaker demand and increased supply, and some could fall further. But prices are expected to remain at levels favourable for African exporter.\n\nEconomic activity has rebounded across Africa. However, the pace of recovery was uneven among groups of countries and subregions. Oil-exporting countries generally expanded more strongly than oil-importing countries. West Africa and East Africa were the two best-performing subregions in 2010.\n\nIntra-African trade has been slowed by protectionist policies among countries and regions. Despite this, trade between countries belonging to the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), a particularly strong economic region, grew six-fold over the past decade up to 2012. Ghana and Kenya, for example, have developed markets within the region for construction materials, machinery, and finished products, quite different from the mining and agriculture products that make up the bulk of their international exports.\n\nThe African Ministers of Trade agreed in 2010 to create a Pan-Africa Free Trade Zone. This would reduce countries' tariffs on imports and increase intra-African trade, and it is hoped, the diversification of the economy overall.\n\nBecause Africa’s export portfolio remains predominantly based on raw material, its export earnings are contingent on commodity price fluctuations. This exacerbates the continent’s susceptibility to external shocks and bolsters the need for export diversification. Trade in services, mainly travel and tourism, continued to rise in year 2012, underscoring the continent’s strong potential in this sphere.\n\nThe situation whereby African nations export crops to the West while millions on the continent starve has been blamed on developed countries including Japan, the European Union and the United States. These countries protect their own agricultural sectors with high import tariffs and offer subsidies to their farmers, which many contend leads the overproduction of such commodities as grain, cotton and milk. The result of this is that the global price of such products is continually reduced until Africans are unable to compete, except for cash crops that do not grow easily in a northern climate.\n\nIn recent years countries such as Brazil, which has experienced progress in agricultural production, have agreed to share technology with Africa to increase agricultural production in the continent to make it a more viable trade partner. Increased investment in African agricultural technology in general has the potential to reduce poverty in Africa. The demand market for African cocoa has experienced a price boom in 2008. The Nigerian, South African and Ugandan governments have targeted policies to take advantage of the increased demand for certain agricultural products and plan to stimulate agricultural sectors. The African Union has plans to heavily invest in African agriculture and the situation is closely monitored by the UN.\n\nAfrica has significant resources for generating energy in several forms (hydroelectric, reserves of petroleum and gas, coal production, uranium production, renewable energy such as solar and geothermal). The lack of development and infrastructure means that little of this potential is actually in use today. The largest consumers of electric power in Africa are South Africa, Libya, Namibia, Egypt, Tunisia, and Zimbabwe, which each consume between 1000 and 5000 KWh/m per person, in contrast with African states such as Ethiopia, Eritrea, and Tanzania, where electricity consumption per person is negligible.\n\nPetroleum and petroleum products are the main export of 14 African countries. Petroleum and petroleum products accounted for a 46.6% share of Africa's total exports in 2010; the second largest export of Africa as a whole is natural gas, in its gaseous state and as liquified natural gas, accounting for a 6.3% share of Africa's exports.\n\nLack of infrastructure creates barriers for African businesses. Although it has many ports, a lack of supporting transportation infrastructure adds 30–40% to costs, in contrast to Asian ports. Many large infrastructure projects are underway across Africa. By far, most of these projects are in the production and transportation of electric power. Many other projects include paved highways, railways, airports, and other construction.\n\nTelecommunications infrastructure is also a growth area in Africa. Although Internet penetration lags other continents, it has still reached 9%. As of 2011, it was estimated that 500,000,000 mobile phones of all types were in use in Africa, including 15,000,000 \"smart phones\".\n\nThe mineral industry of Africa is one of the largest mineral industries in the world. Africa is the second biggest continent, with 30 million km² of land, which implies large quantities of resources. For many African countries, mineral exploration and production constitute significant parts of their economies and remain keys to future economic growth. Africa is richly endowed with mineral reserves and ranks first or second in quantity of world reserves of bauxite, cobalt, industrial diamond, phosphate rock, platinum-group metals (PGM), vermiculite, and zirconium. Gold mining is Africa's main mining resource.\n\nAfrican mineral reserves rank first or second for bauxite, cobalt, diamonds, phosphate rocks, platinum-group metals (PGM), vermiculite, and zirconium. Many other minerals are also present in quantity. The 2005 share of world production from African soil is the following: bauxite 9%; aluminium 5%; chromite 44%; cobalt 57%; copper 5%; gold 21%; iron ore 4%; steel 2%; lead (Pb) 3%; manganese 39%; zinc 2%; cement 4%; natural diamond 46%; graphite 2%; phosphate rock 31%; coal 5%; mineral fuels (including coal) & petroleum 13%; uranium 16%.\n\nBoth the African Union and the United Nations have outlined plans in modern years on how Africa can help itself industrialize and develop significant manufacturing sectors to levels proportional to the African economy in the 1960s with 21st-century technology. This focus on growth and diversification of manufacturing and industrial production, as well as diversification of agricultural production, has fueled hopes that the 21st century will prove to be a century of economic and technological growth for Africa. This hope, coupled with the rise of new leaders in Africa in the future, inspired the term \"the African Century\", referring to the 21st century potentially being the century when Africa's vast untapped labor, capital, and resource potentials might become a world player.\n\nThis hope in manufacturing and industry is helped by the boom in communications technology and local mining industry in much of sub-Saharan Africa. Namibia has attracted industrial investments in recent years and South Africa has begun offering tax incentives to attract foreign direct investment projects in manufacturing.\n\nCountries such as Mauritius have plans for developing new \"green technology\" for manufacturing. Developments such as this have huge potential to open new markets for African countries as the demand for alternative \"green\" and clean technology is predicted to soar in the future as global oil reserves dry up and fossil fuel-based technology becomes less economically viable.\n\nNigeria in recent years has been embracing industrialization, It currently has an indigenous vehicle manufacturing company, \"Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing (IVM)\" which manufactures Rapid Transit Buses, Trucks and SUVs with an upcoming introduction of Cars. Their various brands of vehicle are currently available in Nigeria, Ghana and other West African Nations. Nigeria also has few Electronic manufacturers like Zinox, the first Branded Nigerian Computer and Electronic gadgets (like tablet PCs) manufacturers. In 2013, Nigeria introduced a policy regarding import duty on vehicles to encourage local manufacturing companies in the country. In this regard, some foreign vehicle manufacturing companies like Nissan have made known their plans to have manufacturing plants in Nigeria. Apart from Electronics and vehicles, most consumer, pharmaceutical and cosmetic products, building materials, textiles, home tools, plastics and so on are also manufactured in the country and exported to other west African and African countries. Nigeria is currently the largest manufacturer of cement in Sub-saharan Africa. and Dangote Cement Factory, Obajana is the largest cement factory in sub-saharan Africa. Ogun is considered to be Nigeria's industrial hub (as most factories are located in Ogun and even more companies are moving there), followed by Lagos.\n\nThe manufacturing sector is small but growing in East Africa. The main industries are textile and clothing, leather processing, agribusiness, chemical products, electronics and vehicles. East African countries like Uganda also produce motorcycles for the domestic market.\n\nAfrica's US$107 billion financial services industry will log impressive growth for the rest of the decade as more banks target the continent's emerging middle class. The banking sector has been experiencing record growth, among others due to various technological innovations.\n\nChina and India have showed increasing interest in emerging African economies in the 21st century. Reciprocal investment between Africa and China increased dramatically in recent years amidst the current world financial crisis.\n\nThe increased investment in Africa by China has attracted the attention of the European Union and has provoked talks of competitive investment by the EU. Members of the African diaspora abroad, especially in the EU and the United States, have increased efforts to use their businesses to invest in Africa and encourage African investment abroad in the European economy.\n\nRemittances from the African diaspora and rising interest in investment from the West will be especially helpful for Africa's least developed and most devastated economies, such as Burundi, Togo and Comoros. However, experts lament the high fees involved in sending remittances to Africa due to a duopoly of Western Union and MoneyGram that is controlling Africa’s remittance market, making Africa is the most expensive cash transfer market in the world. According to some experts, the high processing fees involved in sending money to Africa are hampering African countries’ development.\n\nAngola has announced interests in investing in the EU, Portugal in particular. South Africa has attracted increasing attention from the United States as a new frontier of investment in manufacture, financial markets and small business, as has Liberia in recent years under their new leadership.\n\nThere are two African currency unions: the West African Banque Centrale des États de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and the Central African Banque des États de l'Afrique Centrale (BEAC). Both use the CFA franc as their legal tender. The idea of a single currency union across Africa has been floated, and plans exist to have it established by 2020, though many issues, such as bringing continental inflation rates below 5 percent, remain hurdles in its finalization.\n\nAs of 2012, Africa has 23 stock exchanges, twice as many as it had 20 years earlier. Nonetheless, African stock exchanges still account for less than 1% of the world's stock exchange activity. The top ten stock exchanges in Africa by stock capital are (amounts are given in billions of United States dollars):\n\nBetween 2009 and 2012, a total of 72 companies were launched on the stock exchanges of 13 African countries.\n\nThe African Union is the largest international economic grouping on the continent. The confederation's goals include the creation of a free trade area, a customs union, a single market, a central bank, and a common currency (see African Monetary Union), thereby establishing economic and monetary union. The current plan is to establish an African Economic Community with a single currency by 2023. The African Investment Bank is meant to stimulate development. The AU plans also include a transitional African Monetary Fund leading to an African Central Bank. Some parties support development of an even more unified United States of Africa.\n\nInternational monetary and banking unions include:\nMajor economic unions are shown in the chart below.\n\nDuring the 1960s, Ghanaian politician Kwame Nkrumah promoted economic and political union of African countries, with the goal of independence. Since then, objectives, and organizations, have multiplied. Recent decades have brought efforts at various degrees of regional economic integration. Trade between African states accounts for only 11% of Africa's total commerce as of 2012, around five times less than in Asia. Most of this intra-Africa trade originates from South Africa and most of the trade exports coming out of South Africa goes to abutting countries in Southern Africa.\n\nThere are currently eight regional organizations that assist with economic development in Africa:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4808733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4808733", "title": "Expatriates in Kuwait", "text": "Expatriates in Kuwait\n\nThere are a large number of expatriates in Kuwait, with most residing in Kuwait City. Expatriates are primarily attracted by the employment opportunities in Kuwait. Expatriates account for 70% of Kuwait's total population. \n\nThe Indian community in Kuwait includes Indian expats (mostly hailing from the southern states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu), as well as Kuwaiti citizens of Indian origin. According to the Indian ministry of external affairs, there are around 781,288 Indians as on 1 January 2013, constituting the largest expatriate community in Kuwait.\n\nThere are 17 Indian schools in Kuwait affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). There were 164 Indian community Associations earlier registered with the Indian Embassy of Kuwait. Following introduction of a re-registration requirement, 106 of these Indian community Associations have once again registered with the Embassy and the number of registered Associations is growing at a steady pace.\n\nEgyptians are the second largest expat community in Kuwait, numbering more than 600,000 workers.\n\nThe population of Pakistanis in Kuwait is around 130,000. The former Pakistani \"chargé d'affaires\" in Kuwait has given a higher estimate of 150,000 in 2009. There are many Pakistani schools in Kuwait.\n\nThere are around 150,000 Syrian expats in Kuwait. Syrians were among the first educated work force in Kuwait, the first Syrian expats immigrated to Kuwait in the 1960s.\n\nIn 2012, there were 45,000 Iranian expats according to the population census. Iranians are heavily concentrated in the Bneid al-Gar suburb of Kuwait City. Most Iranians are employed in the private sector. In 2011, there were 42,795 Iranians in Kuwait; 699 were employed in the public sector, 24,684 in the private sector and 16,577 were on dependent visas. \n\nThere are Iranian schools in Kuwait, all privately funded and located in the suburbs of Kuwait City, for example the Iranian School of Kuwait.\n\nThere are 70,000 Palestinian expats in Kuwait.\n\nThere are roughly 180,000 Filipinos in Kuwait. Most are migrant workers, and approximately 60% of Filipinos in Kuwait are employed as domestic workers.\n\nIn 2011, Kuwait was the sixth-largest destination of Overseas Filipino Workers, with 65,000 hired or rehired in the nation in 2011, and accordingly Kuwait has been an important source of remittances back to the Philippines, with over $105 million USD being remitted in 2009. Nine Filipino banks have correspondent accounts with banks in Kuwait to allow for remittance transfers.\n\nThere is a Filipino Worker's Resource Center (FWRC) located in Jabriya, and it provides refuge for Filipino workers in Kuwait who have \"[experienced] various forms of maltreatment from their employers such as fatigue, non-payment of salaries,\" as well as \"lack of food [and] physical, verbal and sexual abuse\". Through assistance from the FWRC, the Philippine Embassy in Kuwait, the Philippine Overseas Employment Administration, and Overseas Workers' Welfare Administration, hundreds of Filipinos in Kuwait have been repatriated to the Philippines due to these issues.\n\nKuwait had the largest number of voters registered under the Overseas Absentee Voting Act eligible to vote in the 2013 Philippine general election.\n\nThere are 4,000 Turkish expats in Kuwait. Most Turks work as barbers, engineers, businessmen and doctors. Turkish expats have a large information-sharing site known as Bilgi Kuveyt.\n\n"}
{"id": "2321156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2321156", "title": "Fire insurance mark", "text": "Fire insurance mark\n\nFire insurance marks are metal plaques marked with the emblem of the insurance company which were affixed to the front of insured buildings as a guide to the insurance company's fire brigade. These identification marks were used in the eighteenth and nineteenth century in the days before municipal fire services were formed.\nThe UK marks are called 'Fire insurance plaques'. \n\nThe first to use the mark was the Sun Fire Office which was established in 1710. Some period specimens remain on historical buildings in the older areas of Britain's and America's cities and larger towns. Cast metal plaques were made of iron, lead, or sometimes brass. Embossed sheet metal signs were also made, as well as flat enamel signs – the latter mostly in Continental Europe in the later 19th century. \n\nPeriod specimens may have high value among antiques collectors, leading to illicit creation of fakes. Also, nostalgic reproductions have been made since the early 20th century for decorative purposes. \n\nFor most of the 18th century, each insurance company maintained its own fire brigade, which extinguished fires in those buildings insured by the company and, in return for a fee to be paid later, in buildings insured by other companies. By 1825, fire marks served more as advertisements than as useful identifying marks; some insurance companies no longer issued fire marks, and those that did sometimes left them up after a policy had expired. Successive combinations of fire brigades led to virtually the entire city of London being put under the protection of the London Fire Engine Establishment, which fought not only the fires of policy holders but those of nonsubscribers, the reason being that fires in uninsured buildings could rapidly spread to insured buildings.\n\nFire Insurance has over 200 years of history in America. The early fire marks of Benjamin Franklin's time can still be seen on some Philadelphia buildings as well as in other older American cities. Subscribers paid fire fighting companies in advance for fire protection and in exchange would receive a fire mark to attach to their building. The payments for the fire marks supported the fire fighting companies. Volunteer fire departments were also common in the United States, and some fire insurers contributed money to these departments and awarded bonuses to the first fire engine arriving at the scene of a fire.\n\n Fire insurance companies began operating in the Australian colonies in the early part of the 19th century. They were both Australian and foreign, principally British, owned. The Union Assurance Company of Sydney and The Australasian Fire and Life Assurance Company are both recorded as having offices in George Street, Sydney in 1836. The Sydney Fire Insurance Company was established in 1844 at 468 George Street Sydney. It issued for display at the company’s fire insured properties a mark in copper with the company name with the image of a golden fleece, being at that time in the New South Wales colony a symbol of safety and security. A rare and original plaque from the 1840s is on display at the historic Darling House, The Rocks, the current property having been constructed in this colonial precinct 1842. In Melbourne, the Collingwood Fire Insurance Company (with a paid up capital of 200 000 pounds) was operating in Gertude Street, Collingwood, Victoria in 1854.\n\nFire brigades in metropolitan areas were organised much along the same lines as in the United Kingdom and the United States and were funded by the insurance companies. Likewise the companies issued fire marks to be affixed to buildings to indicate where there were risks for which they had underwritten policies. Such fire marks were commonly made of tinplate, cast iron and lead.\n\nAt least one company, the Norwich Union, issued \"fire marks\" printed on calico for use in rural areas. They were to be fixed on hay ricks, corn stacks and shearing sheds on the theory that they would indicate to arsonists that the owner was insured and would not be out of pocket should the property be destroyed by fire.\n\nOne feature of the insurance company funding of fire brigades survives in some Australian states and territories in the 21st century in that the fire brigade services are principally funded by a \"fire service levy\" or tax applied to all property insurance policies issued within a state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36253924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36253924", "title": "Fryday", "text": "Fryday\n\nFryday is one of the largest networking clubs for professionals organising series of social and business networking events across Eastern Europe and Central Asia. It is currently active in Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bulgaria, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Georgia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Switzerland, Sweden, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine and Uzbekistan. \nFryday community is composed of cosmopolitan professional crowd, business owners, government officials and media representatives. Using both, offline and online platforms, the Fryday network works to bring people together so that they can make new contacts as well as sustain those already existing. \n\nThe idea of Fryday comes from the Stockholm style after work mingles. The first event was on April 21, 2010 with 17 guests in Kyiv. Since 2012 Fryday events are frequented by more than 500 people.\n\nIn February 2012 the new Fryday concept is tested and introduced in Kyiv - Fryday W event, where well known and accomplished speakers share some meaningful ideas with the audience. Ambassadors, top managers and senior politicians are typical speakers at Ws. Fryday W became an excellent way for businesses to meet up with their target audience, commercial chamber reps of foreign countries, diplomats and entrepreneurs informally.\n\nWhat makes Fryday’s network especially appealing nowadays is its extensive online presence with members who are decision makers in successful businesses, covering nearly all business sectors.\n\nThere are four concepts of Fryday events: Fryday Afterwork and Fryday W. \nAfterwork is a relaxed business-socialising event gathering around 500 guests on Friday evenings in top venues of city downtowns. These events are typically happening every second Friday of each month. The entrance to regular Afterwork is free of charge. \n\nThe second concept is Fryday W, which is held on week days, and has a more professional and thematical approach to networking. Themes of W events are determined by spheres of invited speakers. There are usually fewer guests at W events, around 150, who typically relate to an industry of a speaker. The entrance to Fryday W for guests is EUR 10. \n\nThe third and fourth concepts, Fryday Good Morning and Fryday Training, were both developed during 2015 and has by November 2015 not yet proven either successes nor failures. \n\nDuring spring 2013 the people behind Fryday have also launched an affiliated website Socialite.nu that aims to function as a broader umbrella for business-networking.\nFryday also serves a platform for online networking through the spectrum of social media, connecting Fryday members from different cities. The network represents one of the biggest online communities in Eastern Europe, having a great presence on LinkedIn and Facebook, as well as has its own YouTube channel, which is being constantly updated with videos from Fryday events.\n\nThe biggest Fryday community is in Kyiv, where the roots of the Fryday movement are. The first event in Kyiv was in April 21, 2010. In September 2011 Fryday started to hold the events in Almaty (Kazakhstan), following by Tbilisi (Georgia) in January and Astana (Kazakhstan) in March 2012. As of August 2013 Fryday expanded across 29 cities in 21 countries of Eastern Europe and Central Asia. By late 2015 Fryday had continued its expansion westwards and had launched also in Austria, Switzerland and Sweden\n\n"}
{"id": "22467253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22467253", "title": "Hilpulayan", "text": "Hilpulayan\n\nThe Hilpulyan are an Adivasi group in Kerala, India. They have the lowest education level, the most unsanitary living-conditions and generally the lowest income level of any Adivasi group in Idukki District. Most work as manual laborers on the farms of others and supplement their food and other resources by gathering in the forests.\n\n"}
{"id": "19574241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19574241", "title": "Ibrahimkhel", "text": "Ibrahimkhel\n\nIbrahimkhel or Ibrahimkhil (Pashto:ابراهيمخيل) are a major Pashtun tribe. The Ibrahimkhel live in places such as Kabul, Kandahar, Paktia, Paktika, Laghman, Qunduz, Mazar-e-sharif, Herat, Peshawar, Quetta Upper Dir and some other parts of Pashtunistan also in a small village of swat district named BIHA near matta. All the historical references show that Ibrahimkhel are the descendants of the Ghiljis. \nThe Ibrahimkhel are known to be the most prevalent sub-tribe of the Babars. They primarily reside in Pirpiai, Chaudhwan, Multan, Ibrahimkhel Kot, Zhob, Qila Saifullah, Dera Ghazi Khan in Pakistan. In Afghanistan, they have communities in Kandahar and Sheberghan. In India, they settle in the district of Bulandshahr \n\nA very large number of the Ibrahimkhel tribes live in Kabul province's Paghman District.\n"}
{"id": "18117892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18117892", "title": "Kayagar languages", "text": "Kayagar languages\n\nThe Kayagar languages are a small family of four closely related Trans–New Guinea languages:\n\n\nPronouns are:\n"}
{"id": "652830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=652830", "title": "Livonians", "text": "Livonians\n\nThe Livonians, or Livs (Livonian: \"līvlizt\"), are a Finnic ethnic group indigenous to northern Latvia and southwestern Estonia. Livonians historically spoke Livonian, a Uralic language closely related to Estonian and Finnish. The last person to have learned and spoken Livonian as a mother tongue, Grizelda Kristiņa, died in 2013, making Livonian extinct. As of 2010, there were approximately 30 people who had learned it as a second language.\n\nHistorical, social and economic factors, together with an ethnically dispersed population, have resulted in the decline of the Livonian population, with only a small group surviving in the 21st century. In 2011, there were 250 people who claimed Livonian ethnicity in Latvia.\n\nThe exact date of the Uralic migration to the region has been disputed, the easiest explanation could infer that Livonian was one of many indigenous Finnic dialects spoken in the Baltic region, before the gradual adoption of Indo-European, and the only dialect of this kind to survive Balto-Slavic assimilation.\n\nHistorically, the Livonians lived in two separate areas of Latvia, one group in Livonia and another on the northern coast of Courland. The latter were referred as Curonians, together with the Balts living there. The Livonians referred to themselves as \"rāndalist\" (\"coast dwellers\") and supported themselves mainly by fishing, but also by agriculture and animal husbandry. Since they controlled an important trade route, the Daugava River (Livonian: \"Väina\"), their culture was highly developed through trade with the Gotlanders, Russians and Finns, and, from the end of the first millennium AD onwards, with the Germans, Swedes and Danes.\n\nHowever, with the traders came missionaries from Western Europe who wanted to convert the pagan Livonians to Christianity. It has been suggested that the first person to convert some Livonians to Christianity was the Danish archbishop Absalon, who supposedly built a church in the Livonian village today known as Kolka. In the 12th century, Germans invaded Livonia and established a base in Ykskyle, known today as Ikšķile. Archbishop Hartvig II converted some Livonians in the surrounding area, including the local chieftain Caupo of Turaida, who later allied himself with the Germans.\n\nAfter Meinhard died in 1196, his place was taken by Berthold. Berthold tried to convert the Livonians by force, launching two raids on Livonia. The first took place in 1196, but he was forced to retreat to Germany after being ambushed near Salaspils. He tried again in 1198, but this time he was killed by the Livonian soldier Ymaut.\n\nBerthold was followed by Albert von Buxhövden, who forced the Livonian leaders at the mouth of the Daugava River to give him land to build a Christian settlement. Building started in 1201. From this settlement, the city of Riga grew.\n\nWhen this did not immediately induce the Livonians, Estonians, and Baltic peoples in the hinterland to convert, a knightly order was formed, the Knights of the Sword, primarily consisting of Germans, to bring salvation to the pagans by force. In a campaign that was part of the wars known as the Livonian Crusade, these knights defeated, subdued and converted the Livonians. In 1208, Pope Innocent III declared that all Livonians had been converted to Christianity. Afterwards they were obliged to join the Knights of the Sword as infantry during the wars against the Estonians and the Latvian tribes, which continued until 1217.\n\nBefore the German Conquests Livonian inhabited territory was divided in lands of Daugava Livonians, Satezele, Turaida, Idumeja, Metsepole. \n\nDuring the Livonian Crusade, once prosperous Livonia was devastated, and whole regions were almost completely depopulated. This vacuum was filled by Latvian tribes – Curonians, Semigallians, Latgallians and Selonians – who started to move into the area around 1220, and continued to do so for at least thirty years. They settled mostly in the Daugava Valley, so that the Livonians of Livonia in the east were cut off from those living on the peninsula of Curonia in the west.\n\nBecause of the ongoing resistance of the Latvian tribes, the Knights of the Sword eventually had to look for support to the much more powerful Teutonic Order, which up until then had been active primarily in Poland and Lithuania. Having been reorganized as a subdivision of the Teutonic Order and renamed the Livonian Order in 1237, the former Knights of the Sword finally overpowered the Curonians in 1267, and subsequently the Semigallians in 1290. From then on most of Latvia remained under German control until the 16th century, with the city of Riga and several other cities existing as independent German-ruled bishoprics, and the Livonian Order ruling the rest of the land.\n\nIn the middle of the 16th century, the Livonian Order and the independent bishoprics were in turmoil because of the growing influence of Martin Luther's Reformation. Seeing a chance in the resulting military weakness of the Order, Czar Ivan the Terrible of Russia invaded Livonia in 1558, seeking access to the Baltic Sea. However, Sweden and the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth entered the war as allies of the Livonian Order, resulting in almost a quarter of a century of war. The outcome of this Livonian War (1558–1582) was a Russian defeat, but also the dissolution of the Livonian Order. Livonia and south-eastern Latvia were claimed by the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, while Curonia became an independent duchy (Courland), with Gotthard Kettler, the Livonian Order's last Grandmaster, as its first duke.\n\nAfter only ten years of peace, a new series of wars between the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth and Sweden, which had claimed Estonia after the Livonian War, ravaged Livonia from 1592. Eventually, the Swedes were victorious. In 1629, they could finally call Livonia and the city of Riga their own. Under the 17th Century Swedish Kings Gustav II Adolf and Charles XI, general elementary education was introduced, the Bible was translated in Estonian and Latvian, and a university was founded in Tartu in southern Estonia.\n\nAlthough Sweden kept the Poles and the Danes at a distance, this could not be said of the Russians. In the Great Northern War (1700–1721), Czar Peter the Great utterly destroyed Sweden's pretensions to being a regional superpower. In the 1721 Treaty of Nystad, Estonia and Livonia, which had again been completely devastated after more than twenty years of war, were claimed by Russia. Curonia continued to be ruled by its dukes for another three-quarters of a century, but in 1795, that region also became a Russian possession as part of the Third Partition of Poland.\n\nPartly because of the recurring devastation of war and the resultant mingling of refugees, the Livonians of Livonia were eventually completely assimilated by the Latvians. The last remnant of this once vibrant nation was made up of several families living along the river Salaca (Livonian: \"Salatsi\"), but in the second half of the 19th century, the Livonian language and culture completely disappeared from the region known to this day as Livonia; the last known speaker of the eastern Livonian dialect died in 1864, though according to some reports, there were still some people in the early 20th century in the Polish area, who knew they were descended from Livonians. In the Latvian dialect spoken in Livonia, a large number of Livonian loanwords have survived, and other traces of Livonian can be found in many geographical names in the region.\n\nIn Curonia, the Livonian language and culture also came under heavy pressure, but here it retained a last foothold on the outermost tip of the Curonian Peninsula. Several factors made sure that in this area, known as \"Līvõd rānda\", the Livonian Coast, Latvian culture was too weak to assimilate the Livonians. For one thing, the society of the Livonians living in this area was exclusively sea-oriented and based on fishing, while that of the Latvians in the interior was exclusively land-oriented and mostly agricultural. This meant there was not a lot of interaction between the two groups. Also, the Livonian Coast was separated from the interior of Curonia by dense forests and impassable marshlands, which made regular interaction even less likely. The people of the Livonian Coast had much closer ties to the inhabitants of the Estonian island of Saaremaa, across the Gulf of Riga to the north. In their isolated fishing villages, these Livonians kept to themselves for centuries. It was not until the 20th century that the outside world intruded on their quiet existence.\n\nAt the beginning of 20th century many local Livs converted to the Russian Orthodox faith. A new Russian Orthodox church was built in Kolka along with a grammar school nearby and navy school in Mazirbe. Many graduates in later years became sea captains first in the Russian Empire, and later in independent Latvia.\n\nIn 1914, Russia entered the First World War by attacking the Germans and the Austrians from the east, but soon it was pushed back in a series of devastating German victories, which eventually left almost the entire Baltic region in German hands. The Livonian Coast was occupied by the Germans in 1915. At their approach, many Livonians fled their homes, often never to return. Their main destinations were Estonia and inner parts of Latvia. The rest of the people were driven from their homes by the Germans and had to wait until 1919 before they were allowed to return.\n\nThe Russian defeat and the subsequent abdication of Czar Nicholas II opened the door for Vladimir Lenin and the communists to make a grab for power in Russia, leading to the establishment of the Soviet government in Russia in 1917. The Treaty of Brest-Litovsk the following year ended the war between Germany and Soviet Russia and left the Baltic region firmly in German hands. However, after the German capitulation in 1919, the Baltic peoples rose up and established the independent republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.\n\nThe Livonian Coast became part of Latvia. The Livonian language and culture experienced a revival between the two World Wars (beginning with the term of the Latvian president Jānis Čakste through the term of the last interwar president Kārlis Ulmanis). The clearest expression of this revival was the establishment on April 2, 1923 of the Livonian Society, which considered itself the representative of the Livonian people. Also, a Livonian language choir was founded and Livonian song festivals were held along the entire Livonian Coast. Furthermore, a Livonian flag was adopted, with the colours green (for the forests), white (for the beaches) and blue (for the sea), and a division similar to the Latvian flag (three horizontal bars with the middle one-half as wide as the outer ones). Although the Latvian government prohibited the formation of an ethnic Livonian parish within the Lutheran Church of Latvia in 1923, it approved the introduction of the Livonian language as an optional subject in elementary schools in the villages of the Livonian Coast that same year. The thirties saw the publication of the first Livonian language reader, poetry collections of several Livonian writers, and a monthly magazine in the Livonian language, called \"Līvli\" (\"The Livonian\"). Also, contact was made with related peoples such as the Estonians and the Finns — spurred by the Finnish promotion of closer ties with the kindred Finnic peoples — and in 1939, the Livonian Community Centre in Mazirbe (Livonian: Irē) was founded with subsidies from the Estonian and Finnish governments.\n\nThis cultural revival of the Interbellum years served to give the Livonian people for the first time a clear consciousness of their ethnic identity. Before, they had always referred to themselves as \"rāndalist\" (\"coast dwellers\") or \"kalāmīed\" (\"fishermen\"). From the 1920s and 1930s on, though, they began to call themselves \"līvõd\", \"līvnikad\", or \"līvlist\" (\"Livonians\").\n\nIn 1940, Latvia, like Estonia and Lithuania, was occupied by the Soviet Union. This occupation and the subsequent German invasion of 1941 ended all progress the Livonians had made in the preceding twenty years. All cultural expressions were prohibited and just like twenty years before, the inhabitants of the Livonian Coast were driven from their homes. Most of them spent the war years in Riga or western Latvia, but some fled across the Baltic Sea to Gotland. The Curonian Peninsula was one of the areas where the Germans held out until the general capitulation of May 5, 1945, which meant there was not a house left standing when the Livonians returned home after the war.\n\nIn the Soviet era, the Livonians were hard-hit by repressive measures from Moscow. For one thing, they were not allowed to sail far enough from shore to continue their fishery. For another, like the Estonians, Latvians, and Lithuanians, large numbers of them were deported to Siberia between 1945 and 1952, with a clear peak in 1949, when agriculture was collectivized in the Baltic states. Also, in 1955 a Soviet military base was constructed in the middle of the Livonian Coast. To accomplish this, some Livonians were forcibly relocated to villages farther from the coast. Subsequently, the western villages of the Livonian Coast had to be almost completely evacuated when the Soviet Union made its Baltic coastline (its western border) a \"closed border area\" where no one was allowed to live.\n\nLivonian culture was repressed during the Soviet period. For example, the Livonian Society was banned and the Livonian Community Centre expropriated and given to others. Within the Latvian SSR, the Livonians were not recognized as a separate ethnic group.\n\nIt was not until early 1970 that Livonian singers were allowed to found a choir named \"Līvlist\" (\"The Livonians\") in the western Latvian city of Ventspils. The 1980s, Soviet Premier Mikhail Gorbachev's policies of glasnost and perestroika opened the Iron Curtain, bringing change. In 1986, the Livonian Cultural Society was founded. It was later renamed the Livonian Union (Livonian: \"Līvõd Īt\").\n\nAfter the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, Latvia became once again an independent country. In this new nation, Livonians were finally recognised as an indigenous ethnic minority, whose language and culture must be protected and advanced. All rights and possessions which had been taken away from them during the Soviet era were now returned to them. For example, the old Livonian Community Centre in Mazirbe (Irē) was given back and transformed into a historical museum, called the House of the Livonian People. Also, the Livonian language was reintroduced in the elementary schools in Riga, Staicele, Ventspils, Dundaga and Kolka. The first research body dedicated to Livonian studies, the Livonian Institute at the University of Latvia was established in 2018.\n\nFurthermore, on February 4, 1992, the Latvian government created a cultural historic protected territory called \"Līvõd rānda\" - the Livonian Coast - which included all twelve of the Livonian villages: Lūžņa (Livonian: Lūž), Miķeļtornis (Pizā), Lielirbe (Īra), Jaunciems (Ūžkilā), Sīkrags (Sīkrõg), Mazirbe (Irē), Košrags (Kuoštrõg), Pitrags (Pitrõg), Saunags (Sǟnag), Vaide (Vaid), Kolka (Kūolka), and Melnsils (Mustānum). The Latvian government discourages settlement of ethnic Latvians and other non-Livonians in this area and prohibits alterations to historic village sites. Also, it is prohibited for anyone to start a hotel, restaurant, or other public establishment which might adversely influence the Livonian culture or draw outsiders into the area.\n\nToday, many Latvians claim to have some Livonian ancestry. However, there are only 176 people in Latvia who identify themselves as Livonian. According to data from 1995, the Livonian language was spoken by no more than 30 people, of whom only nine were native speakers. An article published by the Foundation for Endangered Languages in 2007 stated that there were only 182 registered Livonians and a mere six native speakers. \"The last Livonian\", who had learned the Livonian language as a part of an unbroken chain of Livonian generations, was Viktor Berthold (b. 1921). He was buried on 28 February 2009 in the Livonian village of Kolka in Courland.\n\nThe Livonian Dāvis Stalts was elected into the Latvian parliament, the Saeima in 2011. In 2018, after being re-elected to the Saeima, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule delivered her oath in Livonian before being asked to retake it in Latvian, which she did in the Livonian dialect of Latvian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41585731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41585731", "title": "Material balance planning", "text": "Material balance planning\n\nMaterial balances are a method of economic planning where material supplies are accounted for in natural units (as opposed to using monetary accounting) and used to balance the supply of available inputs with targeted outputs. Material balancing involves taking a survey of the available inputs and raw materials in an economy and then using a balance sheet to balance the inputs with output targets specified by industry to achieve a balance between supply and demand. This balance is used to formulate a plan for resource allocation and investment in a national economy.\n\nThe method of material balances is contrasted with the method of input-output planning developed by Wassily Leontief.\n\nMaterial balance planning was the principal tool of planning employed by Soviet-type planned economies and was Gosplan's major function in the Soviet Union. This system emerged in a haphazard manner during the collectivisation drive under Joseph Stalin's leadership. It prioritized rapid growth and industrialization over efficiency. Although material balances became an established part of Soviet planning, it never completely replaced the role of financial calculation in the economy.\n\nIn the economy of the Soviet Union, Gosplan's major function was the formulation of material balances and national plans for the economy. In 1973, supplies for 70% of all industrial production representing 1,943 of the economy's most important items had their balances worked out by Gosplan. State Committee for Supplies Procurement and the various economic ministries were responsible for the determination of the suppliers and recipients of supplies in the Soviet economy.\n\nMaterial balance planning encompassed non-labor inputs (the distribution of consumer goods and allocation of labor was left to market mechanisms). In a material balance sheet, the major sources of supply and demand are drawn up in a table that achieves a rough balance between the two through an iterative process. Successive iterations corrected imbalances with previous iterations - for example, deficits signaled the need for extra output in the successive iteration of the balance. The Soviet economy suffered endemic supply problems stemming from the crudity of the material balance technique, where balances were highly aggregated and thus imprecise.\n\nBeginning in the early 1960s, the Communist Party of the Soviet Union considered moving away from material balance planning in favor of developing an interlinked computerized system of resource allocation based on the principles of Cybernetics. This development was seen as the basis for moving toward optimal planning that could form the basis of a more highly developed form of socialist economy based on informational decentralization and innovation. This was seen as a logical progression given that the material balances system was geared toward rapid industrialization, which the Soviet Union had already achieved in the preceding decades. But by the early 1970s the idea of transcending the status quo was abandoned by the Soviet leadership.\n\n"}
{"id": "842127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=842127", "title": "Miruts Yifter", "text": "Miruts Yifter\n\nMiruts Yifter (Amharic: ምሩፅ ይፍጠር, affectionately known as \"Yifter the Shifter\", 15 May 1944 – 22 December 2016) was an Ethiopian athlete and winner of two gold medals at the 1980 Summer Olympics. His date of birth is often given as 15 May 1944, though there is some uncertainty about this. His name is also sometimes spelled as Muruse Yefter.\n\nBorn in Adigrat, in the Tigray Region of Ethiopia, Yifter spent early parts of his youth working in different factories and as a carriage driver. His talent as a long-distance runner was noticed when he joined the Ethiopian Air Force.\n\nYifter was called to the Ethiopian national team for the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City, but he made his Olympic debut four years later in Munich Olympics where he won a bronze medal in 10,000 metres. However, he arrived too late for the 5000 metres final.\n\nIn the 1973 All-Africa Games he won one gold medal (10,000 m) and one silver (5000 m). At the 1st African Championships in 1979 he won two gold medals (5000 and 10,000 metres).\n\nYifter was unable to participate in the 1976 Summer Olympics because his nation boycotted the event. Four years later in Moscow, Yifter made up for his disappointments by winning gold in both the 10,000 and 5000 m. In the final of the 10,000 m he sprinted into the lead 300 m from the finish and won by ten metres. Five days later, in the 5000 m final, Yifter was boxed in during the last lap. But with 300 m to go, his Ethiopian teammate, Mohamed Kedir, stepped aside and Yifter again sprinted to victory. Due to his abrupt change in speed when executing his kick to the finish, Yifter acquired the nickname \"Yifter the Shifter.\"\n\nAt Coamo, Puerto Rico on 6 February 1977, Yifter ran a World Best for the half-marathon of 1:02:57.\n\nAt the Moscow Olympics, part of the mystery surrounding Yifter was the question of his age, which was reported to be between 33 and 42. Yifter refused to give a definitive answer, telling reporters:\n\n\"Men may steal my chickens; men may steal my sheep. But no man can steal my age.\"\n\nThe most common versions of his date of birth are 1 January 1938 or 15 May 1944 (see IAAF Profile).\n\nYifter continued to compete into the early 1980s, running on Ethiopia's gold medal winning team at the 1982 and 1983 IAAF World Cross Country Championships.\n\nMiruts Yifter died at age of 72 on 22 December 2016 in Toronto, Ontario where he had lived since 2000. According to family members, he had been suffering from respiratory problems.\n\nHe was buried in Addis Ababa, in the Holy Trinity Cathedral cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "8005327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8005327", "title": "Miss Earth 2002", "text": "Miss Earth 2002\n\nMiss Earth 2002, the 2nd edition of Miss Earth pageant, was held in Pasay, Philippines on 29 October 2002. In its second year, 55 delegates participated, exceeding the number of contestants in Miss International 2002, thereby becoming the world's third biggest international pageant in terms of number of contestants. \n\nDžejla Glavović of Bosnia & Herzegovina won the title that year, also receiving Miss Talent. However, on May 28, 2003, the Miss Earth Foundation officially dethroned her \"due to her failure to comply with the stipulations in her contract.\" First runner-up from Kenya, Winfred Omwakwe, took over the position of Miss Earth 2002. Omwakwe was formally crowned as the new Miss Earth 2002 on August 7, 2003 at the Carousel Gardens in Mandaluyong City, Philippines.\n\nFinal Question in Miss Earth 2002: \"Which has more significance to your life right now, a sunrise or a sunset?\"\n\nFinal Answers in Miss Earth 2002: \"Of course, sunrise because, first, it's romantic and when you look at sunrise you can feel something beautiful, a new day, and a new life. And when you look at sunrise I can feel positive energy to do something good for Earth. And I would like to say that it's not about sunrise, it's about our Mother Earth because we just have one home. So stop talking. Start acting.\" - Džejla Glavović, represented Bosnia & Herzegovina (Dethroned Miss Earth 2002).\n\n\"To me, the sunrise and the sunset are very important. But I must say, the sunrise is more important. I look forward to a brighter day. A day when all of us will put our hands together to fight against all our environmental problems and to live a better lives. Therefore, I believe all of us would like our children to have a better day. A day which they can breathe fresh air and drink fresh water and live a happy life.\" - Winnie Adah Omwakwe, represented Kenya (Succeeded Miss Kenya as Miss Earth 2002).\n\nList of countries and delegates that participated in Miss Earth 2002:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292322", "title": "Missionary dating", "text": "Missionary dating\n\nMissionary dating is the act of a person of one religious faith, commonly Christianity, dating a person with differing beliefs for the purpose of changing that person's beliefs or religion.\n\nInterfaith dating and interfaith marriage may—or may not—be undertaken in the expectation of converting one's partner, though it is not uncommon for romantic partners to seek to persuade one another to change when there are areas of disunity.\n\n"}
{"id": "301008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301008", "title": "Mushroom hunting", "text": "Mushroom hunting\n\nMushroom hunting, Houby hunting, mushrooming, mushroom picking, mushroom foraging, and similar terms describe the activity of gathering mushrooms in the wild, typically for food. This practice is popular throughout most of Europe, Australia, Japan, Korea, parts of the Middle East, and the Indian subcontinent, as well as the temperate regions of Canada and the United States.\n\nA large number of mushroom species are favored for eating by mushroom hunters. The king bolete is a popular delicacy. Sulphur shelf (also known as chicken mushroom and chicken of the woods) is often gathered because it occurs in bulk, recurs year after year, is easily identified, and has a wide variety of culinary uses. Pine mushrooms, chanterelles, morels, oyster mushrooms, puffballs and polypores are among the most popular types of mushrooms to gather, most of these being fairly simple to properly identify by anyone with practice. Much more care, education, and experience is typically required to make a positive identification of many species, however, and as such, few collect from more dangerous groups, such as \"Amanita\", which include some of the most toxic mushrooms in existence.\n\nMany field guides on mushrooms are available and recommended to help safely distinguish edible from the many poisonous mushrooms.\n\nIdentification is not the only element of mushroom hunting that takes practice; knowing where and when to search does as well. Most mushroom species require very specific conditions. Some only grow at the base of a certain type of tree, for example. Finding a desired species that is known to grow in a certain region can be a challenge.\n\nA Czech adage warns that \"\" Translated, that \"every mushroom is edible, but some only once.\"\nSome mushrooms are deadly or extremely hazardous when consumed. Some that are not deadly can nevertheless cause permanent organ damage.\n\nCommon safety advice includes:\n\n\"Little brown mushrooms\" (or LBMs) refers to any of a large number of small, dull-coloured agaric species, with few macromorphological uniquely distinguishing characteristics. As a result, LBMs typically range from difficult to impossible for mushroom hunters to identify. Experienced mushroomers may discern more subtle identifying traits that help narrow the mushroom down to a particular genus or group of species, but exact identification of LBMs often requires close examination of microscopic characteristics plus a certain degree of familiarity or specialization in that particular group.\n\nFor mycologists, LBMs are the equivalent of LBJs (\"little brown jobs\") and DYCs (\"damned yellow composites\") that are the bane of ornithologists and botanists, respectively.\n\n\"Big white mushroom\" (or BWM) is also sometimes used to describe groups of difficult to identify larger and paler agarics, many of which are in the genus \"Clitocybe.\"\n\nThe \"Amanita muscaria\"'s psychotropic properties have been traditionally used by shamans in Siberia in their rituals. However, its use for such purposes today is very rare, despite the mushroom's abundance. Instead, the \"Psilocybe semilanceata\" is sought after for its hallucinogenic properties, the latter being more desirable with fewer side effects than those of \"A. muscaria\". The use of \"P. semilanceata\" is however significantly hindered by its small size, requiring larger quantities and being hard to spot. Other Psilocybe species are abundant in the American south and west, as well as Mexico, where they have been used by traditional shamans for centuries. In the west, one can often find mushroom pickers in cow pastures in a stereotypical stoop looking in the grass for psilocybes. This can be quite dangerous, as many species grow in pastures and amateurs often misidentify psilocybes.\n\nThe popularity of mushroom picking in some parts of the world has led to mushroom festivals. The festivals are usually between September and October, depending on the mushrooms available in a particular region. Festivals in North America include:\n\nNuclear fallout from the Chernobyl disaster is an important issue concerning mushroom picking in Europe. Due to the wide spread of their mycelium, mushrooms tend to accumulate more radioactive caesium-137 than surrounding soil and other organisms. State agencies (e.g. Bellesrad in Belarus) monitor and analyze the degree of radionuclide accumulation in various wild species of plants and animals. In particular, Bellesrad claims that Svinushka (\"Paxillus\" ssp.), Maslenok (\"Suillus\" ssp.), Mokhovik (\"Xerocomus\" ssp.), and Horkushka (\"Lactarius rufus\") are the worst ones in this respect. The safest one is Opyonok Osyenniy (\"Armillaria mellea\"). This is an issue not only in Poland, Belarus, Ukraine and Russia: the fallout also reached western Europe, and until recently the German government discouraged people gathering certain mushrooms.\n\nThe situation is treated with black humor in some Russian jokes.\"\n\nMany mushroom guidebooks call attention to similarities between species, especially significant if an edible species is similar to, or commonly confused with, one that is potentially harmful.\n\nExamples:\n\nThere are treatments to reduce or eliminate the toxicity of certain (but not all) poisonous species to the point where they may be edible. For instance, false morels are deadly poisonous when eaten raw or incorrectly prepared, but their toxins can be reduced by a proper method of parboiling. Prepared in this way, this mushroom is widely used and considered a delicacy in many European countries, although recent research suggests that there may still be long-term health consequences from eating it.\n\nCommonly gathered species, grouped by their order taxa, are as follows:\nmushroom species mentioned in each group are listed at the end of the paragraph using the following convention:\nLatin name (common English names, if any).\n\nThe genus \"Macrolepiota\", usually \"Macrolepiota procera\", and, to a lesser extent, \"M. rhacodes\" are highly regarded, especially in Europe, being very palatable and very large, with specimens of \"M. procera\" as high as one metre being reported.\n\n\nWhile the family of amanitas are approached with extreme caution, as it contains the lethal \"Amanita phalloides\" and \"Amanita virosa\", those confident in their skills often pick the \"Amanita rubescens\", which is highly prized in Europe and to a much lesser extent in Russia, accounted by some not to superior taste, but to its relation to the \"Amanita caesarea\", which is not found in Russia, but was considered a delicacy worthy of the emperor in Ancient Rome.\n\nThis order is often viewed as the order of \"noble\" mushrooms, containing few poisonous species, identifiable with relative ease, and having superior palatability. The most notable species is the \"Boletus edulis\", the \"mushroom king\", an almost legendary, relatively rare mushroom, edible in almost any (even raw) form, and commonly considered \"the\" best-tasting mushroom. (It is common to confuse the Russian name, literally \"white mushroom\", with champignons, often known in English as \"white mushrooms\".)\n\nThe genus \"Leccinum\" includes two well-known mushroom species named after the trees they can usually be found next to. The \"Leccinum aurantiacum\" (as well as the \"Leccinum versipelle\"), found under aspen trees, and the \"Leccinum scabrum\" (as well as the \"L. holopus\"), found under birch trees. The secondary mentioned species, are significantly different in cap colour only. Both types are very sought after, being highly palatable, while more common than the B. edulis.\n\nThe genus \"Suillus\", characterised by its slimy cap, is another prized mushroom, the \"Suillus luteus\" and \"Suillus granulatus\" being its most common varieties, and while abundant in some parts of Eurasia, is a rare occurrence in others. It is easy to identify and very palatable.\n\nThe genus \"Xerocomus\" is generally considered a less desirable (though mostly edible) mushroom group, due to common abundant mould growth on their caps, which can make them poisonous. The \"Xerocomus badius\", however is an exception, being moderately sought after, especially in Europe. Some scientific classifications now consider species in the genus \"Xerocomus\" as members of \"Boletus\".\n\nThe \"Cantharellus cibarius\", a common and popular mushroom, especially in Europe, is a choice edible and unique mushroom. It is very rarely infested by worms or larvae, has a unique appearance, and when rotting, the decomposed parts are easily distinguishable and separable from those that are edible.\n\nThe \"Gyromitra esculenta\" is considered poisonous, but can be consumed if dried and stored for over a year, according to Slavic literature, and can be used to supplement or replace morel (see \"Morchellaceae\" below) mushrooms, while Western literature claims that even the fumes of the mushroom are dangerous. It is similar to morels both in appearance and palatability.\n\nThe morel, \"Morchella esculenta\" is highly prized in Western Europe, India and North America. It is significantly less prized in Slavic countries where, like the \"Gyromitra esculenta\", it is considered marginally edible with mediocre palatability. Boiling the mushroom and discarding the water is often recommended.\n\nMembers of the genus \"Lactarius\", as the name suggests, lactate a milky liquid when wounded and are often scoffed upon by Western literature. The \"Lactarius deliciosus\" is however regarded as one of the most palatable mushrooms in Slavic culture, comparable to the \"Boletus edulis\". Also considered as similarly palatable are the species \"Lactarius necator\" and particularly \"Lactarius resimus\". Thermal treatment may however be necessary in some cases. Slightly less appealing due to its bitter taste is the \"Lactarius pubescens\".\n\nThe Russula family includes over 750 species and is one of the most common and abundant mushrooms in Eurasia. Their cap colours include red, brown, yellow, blue and green and can be easily spotted. The \"Russula vesca\" species, one of the many red-capped varieties, is one of the most common, is reasonably palatable and can be eaten raw. The edible Russulas have a mild taste, compared to many inedible or poisonous species that have a strong hot or bitter taste - but notice that the deadly poisonous Amanita phalloides, Amanita virosa and many other poisonous mushrooms have mild taste! The \"Russula emetica\" (the sickener) is known to cause gastrointestinal upset and has a very hot taste when a small bit is placed on the tongue. Due to their abundance they are however often regarded as an inferior mushroom for hunting, since they may be eaten if parboiled.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33641434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33641434", "title": "Ngbundu language", "text": "Ngbundu language\n\nNgbundu is a minor Ubangian language (Banda) of the Democratic Republic of the Congo\n"}
{"id": "42854793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42854793", "title": "Norsk Novaselskap", "text": "Norsk Novaselskap\n\nNorsk Novaselskap (the Norwegian Nova Society) was a Norwegian society organizing amateur astronomers in Norway. It was founded by Sigurd Einbu. Systematic observations and search for new variable stars was organised by the society. One of the most active members was Nobel laureate in chemistry, Odd Hassel, who for more than 50 years observed comets and variable stars.\n"}
{"id": "12297748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12297748", "title": "Old Bill's Fun Run for Charities", "text": "Old Bill's Fun Run for Charities\n\nOld Bill's Fun Run For Charities (also commonly referred to as Old Bill’s) is an innovative fundraising event, administered by the Community Foundation of Jackson Hole, which takes place annually in the town of Jackson, Wyoming. The first event of its kind in the nation, Old Bill's began in 1997 and to date has helped Jackson Hole charities raise over $121 million. Funds from the event are restricted for use in Teton County, Wyoming and Teton County, Idaho, however 2007 marked the last year of participation by charities from Idaho.\n\nWith the help of Old Bill's Fun Run, the Community Foundation of Jackson Hole was recognized in 2001 as the number one per capita granting community foundation in the United States, an honor it has consistently earned every year since.\n\nThe idea for Old Bill's Fun Run for Charities came from an anonymous couple affectionately known as Mr. and Mrs. Old Bill, whose vision was to expand the charitable pie in Jackson Hole by encouraging the entire community to participate in philanthropy.\n\nWith the help of the Community Foundation, they developed a fundraising structure whereby donors could contribute to as many organizations as they liked with one simple donation to the Community Foundation and the money would be matched by Mr. and Mrs. Old Bill and several other major contributors known as Co-Challengers. Additionally, Mr. and Mrs. Old Bill specified that $250,000 from the Match Fund be set aside each year for use in the Community Foundation’s biannual competitive grant allocations. To celebrate the community’s philanthropic spirit, the giving period concludes with a Fun run in the heart of town, probably the single most unifying event in the Jackson Hole community.\n\nEach year, Mr. and Mrs. Old Bill donate $500,000 to the Match. The Community Foundation of Jackson Hole then solicits additional matching contributions from donors called Co-Challengers. Co-Challengers donate at five levels: Titanium ($100,000), Platinum ($75,000), Gold ($50,000), Silver ($35,000) and Bronze ($25,000).\n\nIn the months leading up to the event, donors make gifts of all sizes to their favorite nonprofits and charities. Old Bill's makes giving easy as donors need only fill out one form and write one check to give to as many local organizations as they like. Non-profits can raise as much money as they wish, of which the Community Foundation matches the first $25,000. They still receive 100% of donor contributions in excess of $25,000, but that money is not matched.\n\nOn the second Saturday of September, over 4,000 people come together for a giant celebration of community spirit and support. The day is filled with a Fun Run and Walk, entertainment, food and informational booths. The magic of a community celebration combined with ease of giving has increased awareness about the work of Jackson Hole organizations and has enabled them to raise over $121 million in the last nineteen years. Along with the money, the ideal of a broadly philanthropic, caring community has enriched Jackson Hole and the lives of its citizens.\n\nWhen the last contribution is tallied, the Community Foundation calculates the match percentage. From the total match money raised by the Co-Challengers, 20% is subtracted and distributed to local nonprofits through a twice-annual competitive grants process.\n\nThe remaining matching funds are compared to all eligible contributions made on behalf of local nonprofits. The ratio of matching funds to donor contributions provides the match percentage. The match is added to all funds raised by each participating non-profit allowing the donor's contribution to make an even larger impact!\n\n"}
{"id": "17860944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17860944", "title": "Pashtun nationalism", "text": "Pashtun nationalism\n\nPashtun nationalism () is a political and social movement which promotes the idea that the Pashtuns are deserving of a sovereign nation in their homeland of Pashtunistan, which consists of the Pashtun-majority parts of Afghanistan and Pakistan. Pashtun nationalism is closely linked to the cause of Pashtun home rule and Pashtun independence. In Afghanistan, Pashtun nationalists look after the interests of the Pashtun ethnic group and has its support only from them. They favor the ideas of a \"Greater Afghanistan\" (i.e. it claims the Pashtun-speaking parts of Pakistan for Afghanistan). Therefore, the concept of Pashtun nationalism politically overlaps with Afghan nationalism.\n\nOne of the earliest Pashtun nationalists was the \"warrior-poet\" Bayazid Pir Roshan. Another early Pashtun nationalist was Khushal Khan Khattak, who was imprisoned by the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb for trying to incite the Pashtuns to rebel against the rule of the Mughals. However, despite sharing a common language and believing in a common ancestry, the Pashtuns first achieved unity in the 18th century after being under foreign rule for many centuries. The eastern parts of Pashtunistan was ruled by the Mughal Empire, while the western parts were ruled by the Persian Safavids as their easternmost provinces. During the early 18th century, Pashtun tribes led by Mirwais Hotak successfully revolted against the Safavids in the city of Kandahar. In a chain of events, he declared Loy Kandahar and other parts of what is now southern Afghanistan independent. By 1738 the Mughal Empire had been crushingly defeated and their capital sacked and looted by forces of a new Iranian ruler; the military genius and commander Nader Shah. Besides Persian, Turkmen, and Caucasian forces, Nader was also accompanied by the young Ahmad Shah Durrani, and 4,000 well trained Pashtun troops from what is now Afghanistan and North-west Pakistan.\n\nAfter the death of Nader Shah in 1747 and the disintegration of his massive empire, Ahmad Shah Durrani created his own large and powerful Durrani Empire, which included Pashtunistan, and most of nowadays Pakistan, among other regions. The famous couplet by Ahmad Shah Durrani describes the association the people have with the regional city of Kandahar:\n\n\"Da Dili takht ze herauma cheh rayad kam, zama da shkule Pashtunkhwa da ghro saruna\".\nTranslation: \"I forget the throne of Delhi when I recall, the mountain peaks of my beautiful Pashtunkhwa.\"\nThe last Afghan Empire was established in 1747 and united all the different Pashtun tribes as well as many other ethnic groups. Parts of the Pashtunistan region around Peshawar was invaded by Ranjit Singh and his Sikh army in the early part of the 19th century, but a few years later they were defeated by the British Raj, the new powerful empire which reached the Pashtunistan region from the east.\n\nFamous Pashtun independence activists against the rule of the British Raj include Bacha Khan, Abdul Samad Khan Achakzai, and Mirzali Khan (Faqir of Ipi). Bacha Khan and his followers, the Khudai Khidmatgars, strongly opposed the All-India Muslim League's demand for the partition of India. When the Indian National Congress declared its acceptance of the partition plan without consulting the Khudai Khidmatgar leaders, Bacha Khan felt very sad and told the Congress \"you have thrown us to the wolves.\" In June 1947, Bacha Khan, Mirzali Khan, and the Khudai Khidmatgar movement declared the Bannu Resolution, demanding that the Pashtuns be given a choice to have an independent state of Pashtunistan composing all Pashtun territories of British India, instead of being made to join Pakistan. However, the British Raj refused to comply with the demand of this resolution. After the creation of Pakistan in 1947, Mirzali Khan and his followers refused to recognize Pakistan and continued their guerrilla war against the new state’s government from their base in Gurwek, Waziristan. Mirzali Khan also announced the creation of Pashtunistan as an independent nation. A Pashtun jirga, held in Razmak, Waziristan, appointed Mirzali Khan as the President of the National Assembly for Pashtunistan. Mirzali Khan didn't surrender to the government of Pakistan throughout his life.\n\n"}
{"id": "2377863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2377863", "title": "Ranked list of Venezuelan states", "text": "Ranked list of Venezuelan states\n\nThese are ranked lists of the States of Venezuela sorted by population, area, density and human development index.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11049352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11049352", "title": "Richard McCoy Jr.", "text": "Richard McCoy Jr.\n\nRichard Floyd McCoy Jr. (December 7, 1942 – November 9, 1974) was an American aircraft hijacker. McCoy hijacked a United Airlines passenger jet for ransom in 1972. Due to a similar \"modus operandi\", law enforcement officials named McCoy as a suspect for the still-unidentified \"D. B. Cooper,\" who committed his unsolved crime four-and-a-half months before McCoy.\n\nMcCoy was born December 7, 1942, in the town of Kinston, North Carolina, and grew up in nearby Cove City. In 1962 McCoy moved to Provo, Utah, and enrolled at Brigham Young University (BYU) before dropping out to serve a two-year tour of duty in the Army. He served in Vietnam as a demolition expert and pilot and was awarded the Purple Heart in 1964.\n\nIn 1965 McCoy returned to BYU, where he met Karen Burns. They married in August 1965 in Raleigh. By 1971 they had two children, Chanti and Richard.\n\nMcCoy served another term in the Army on the condition he could go to Vietnam, where he was awarded both the Army Commendation Medal and Distinguished Flying Cross. Upon returning to Utah, he served as a warrant officer in the Utah National Guard and was an avid skydiver.\n\nMcCoy taught Mormon Sunday school and studied law enforcement at BYU. His purported dream was to become an FBI or CIA agent.\n\nOn April 7, 1972, McCoy boarded United Airlines Flight 855 under the alias \"James Johnson\" during a stopover in Denver, Colorado. The aircraft was a Boeing 727 with aft stairs (the same equipment used in the D. B. Cooper incident), via which McCoy escaped in mid-flight by parachute after giving the crew similar instructions as Cooper had. McCoy had obtained a $500,000 cash ransom, and carried a novelty hand-grenade and an empty pistol.\n\nPolice began investigating McCoy following a tip from a motorist. The driver had picked up McCoy hitch-hiking at a fast-food restaurant, where McCoy was wearing a jumpsuit and carrying a duffel bag. McCoy had also described to an how easy it would be to carry out such a hijacking.\n\nFollowing fingerprint and handwriting matches, McCoy was arrested two days after the hijacking. McCoy was on National Guard duty flying one of the helicopters involved in the search for the hijacker. Inside his house, FBI agents found a jumpsuit and a duffel bag filled with cash totaling $499,970.\n\nMcCoy claimed innocence, but was convicted of the hijacking and received a 45-year sentence. Once incarcerated at the Federal penitentiary at Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, McCoy used his access to the prison's dental office to fashion a fake handgun out of dental paste. He and a crew of convicts escaped on August 10, 1974 by commandeering a garbage truck and crashing it through the prison's main gate.\n\nThree months later the FBI located McCoy in Virginia Beach, Virginia. News reports stated that on November 9, 1974, McCoy walked into his home and was met by FBI agents; he fired at them, and an agent fired back with a shotgun, killing McCoy.\n\n1991 saw the publication of \"D. B. Cooper: The Real McCoy\", by FBI agents Bernie Rhodes and Russell P. Calame. Both authors investigated McCoy's skyjacking case, and their book posits that Cooper and McCoy were really the same person. They cited similar methods of hijacking, and a tie and Brigham Young University medallion with McCoy's initials on the back left on the plane by Cooper.\n\nAfter the book's publication, McCoy's widow filed suit against the book's authors and publisher, and her former attorney, Thomas S. Taylor. She claimed they misrepresented her involvement in the hijacking for which McCoy was convicted, and also misrepresented later events from interviews done with Taylor in the 1970s. She sought an injunction against publication and distribution of the book.\n\nDuring court proceedings, it was revealed that McCoy's widow was deeply involved in the hijacking. Her request for an injunction to prohibit further sales of the book was denied. However, an injunction to prohibit the sale of movie rights to the book – conditional upon the movie including references to four specific allegations in the book that she protested – was granted.\n\nMrs. McCoy accepted settlements in 1994. The book's publisher, U. press, paid Karen McCoy $20,000. Taylor was ordered to pay her $100,000. The two authors' settlements are confidential.\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "10572144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10572144", "title": "Roger Schawinski", "text": "Roger Schawinski\n\nRoger Schawinski (born 11 June 1945 in Zurich) is a Swiss journalist and entrepreneur as well as the creator of Swiss consumer watchdog program \"Kassensturz\" (English 'cash check'). \n\nHe founded Switzerland's first commercial radio station \"Radio 24\" and launched a nationwide television channel called \"Tele 24\". In 2003, he gained international status when he joined the German Television network \"Sat. 1\" and became the managing director for three consecutive years. He earned a PhD in economics from University of St. Gallen. Roger Schawinski pre-launched \"Radio 1\" on January 14, 2008 and went on air with it on March 17, 2008. \"Radio 1\" will be the first radio station especially devoted to music and the taste for adults in their 30s–60s.\n\n"}
{"id": "39631094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39631094", "title": "Self-assembly of nanoparticles", "text": "Self-assembly of nanoparticles\n\nSelf-assembly is a phenomenon where the components of a system assemble themselves to form a larger functional unit. This spontaneous organization can be due to direct specific interaction, collective effects, and/or occur indirectly through their environment. Due to the proliferation of nanoparticle synthesis techniques, the study and design of nanoparticle self-assembly has become widespread. The spatial arrangements of these self-assembled nanoparticles can be potentially used to build increasingly complex structures leading to a wide variety of materials that can be used for different purposes.\n\nAt the molecular level, intermolecular force hold the spontaneous gathering of molecules into a well-defined and stable structure together. In chemical solutions, self-assembly is an outcome of random motion of molecules and the affinity of their binding sites for one another. In the area of nanotechnology, developing a simple, efficient method to organize molecules and molecular clusters into precise, pre-determined structure is crucial.\nThe study of self-assembly of nanoparticles began with recognition that some properties of atoms and molecules enable them to arrange themselves into patterns. A variety of applications where the self-assembly of nanoparticles might be useful. For example, building sensors or computer chips. Nanoparticles have been observed by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) to self-assemble in real-time.\n\nSelf-assembly is an equilibrium process, i.e. the individual and assembled components exist in equilibrium. In addition, the lower free energy is usually a result of a weaker intermolecular force between self-assembled moieties and is essentially enthalpic in nature.\n\nThe thermodynamics of the self-assembly process can be represented by a simple Gibbs free energy equation:\n\nwhere if formula_2 is negative, self-assembly is a spontaneous process. formula_3 is the enthalpy change of the process and is largely determined by the potential energy/intermolecular forces between the assembling entities. formula_4 is the change in entropy associated with the formation of the ordered arrangement. In general, the organization is accompanied by a decrease in entropy and in order for the assembly to be spontaneous the enthalpy term must be negative and in excess of the entropy term. This equation shows that as the value of formula_5 approaches the value of formula_3 and above a critical temperature, the self-assembly process will become progressively less likely to occur and spontaneous self-assembly will not happen.\n\nThe self-assembly is governed by the normal processes of nucleation and growth. Small assemblies are formed because of their increased lifetime as the attractive interactions between the components lower the Gibbs free energy. As the assembly grows, the Gibbs free energy continues to decrease until the assembly becomes stable enough to last for a long period of time. The necessity of the self-assembly to be an equilibrium process is defined by the organization of the structure which requires non-ideal arrangements to be formed before the lowest energy configuration is found.\n\nSelf-assembled structure contain defects. In most cases, the thermodynamic driving force for self-assembly is provided by weak intermolecular interactions and is usually of the same order of magnitude as the entropy term. In order for a self-assembling system to reach the minimum free energy configuration, there has to be enough thermal energy to allow the mass transport of the self-assembling molecules. For defect formation, the free energy of single defect formation is given by:\n\nThe enthalpy term, formula_8 does not necessarily reflect the intermolecular forces between the molecules, it is the energy cost associated with disrupting the pattern and may be thought of as a region where optimum arrangement does not occur and the reduction of enthalpy associated with ideal self-assembly did not occur. An example of this can be seen in a system of hexagonally packed cylinders where defect regions of lamellar structure exist.\n\nIf formula_9 is negative, there will be a finite number of defects in the system and the concentration will be given by:\n\nN is the number of defects in a matrix of N self-assembled particles or features and formula_11 is the activation energy of defect formation. The activation energy, formula_12, should not be confused with formula_8. The activation energy represents the energy difference between the initial ideally arranges state and a transition state towards the defective structure. At low defect concentrations, defect formation is entropy driven until a critical concentration of defects allows the activation energy term to compensate for entropy. There is usually an equilibrium defect density indicated at the minimum free energy. The activation energy for defect formation increases this equilibrium defect density.\n\nIntermolecular forces govern the particle interaction in self-assembled systems. The forces tend to be intermolecular in type rather than ionic or covalent because ionic or covalent bonds will “lock” the assembly into non-equilibrium structures. The types intermolecular forces seen in self-assembly processes are van der Waals, hydrogen bonds, and weak polar forces, just to name a few. In self-assembly, regular structural arrangements are frequently observed, therefore there must be a balance of attractive and repulsive between molecules otherwise an equilibrium distance will not exist between the particles. The repulsive forces can be electron cloud-electron cloud overlap or electrostatic repulsion.\n\nThe processes by which nanoparticles self-assemble are widespread and important. Understanding why and how self-assembly occurs is key in reproducing and optimizing results. Typically, nanoparticles will self-assemble for one or both of two reasons: molecular interactions and external direction.\n\nNanoparticles have the ability to assemble chemically through covalent or noncovalent interactions with their capping ligand. The terminal functional group(s) on the particle are known as capping ligands. As these ligands tend to be complex and sophisticated, self-assembly can provide a simpler pathway for nanoparticle organization by synthesizing efficient functional groups. For instance, DNA oligomers have been a key ligand for nanoparticle building blocks to be self-assembling via sequence-based specific organization. However, to deliver precise and scalable (programmable) assembly for a desired structure, a careful positioning of ligand molecules onto the nanoparticle counterpart should be required at the building block (precursor) level, such as direction, geometry, morphology, affinity, etc.The successful design of ligand-building block units can play an essential role in manufacturing a wide-range of new nano systems, such as nanosensor systems,\nnanomachines/nanobots, nanocomputers, and many more uncharted systems.\n\nNanoparticles can self-assemble as a result of their intermolecular forces. As systems look to minimize their free energy, self-assembly is one option for the system to achieve its lowest free energy thermodynamically. Nanoparticles can be programmed to self-assemble by changing the functionality of their side groups, taking advantage of weak and specific intermolecular forces to spontaneously order the particles. These direct interparticle interactions can be typical intermolecular forces such as hydrogen bonding or Van der Waals forces, but can also be internal characteristics, such as hydrophobicity or hydrophilicity. For example, lipophilic nanoparticles have the tendency to self-assemble and form crystals as solvents are evaporated. While these aggregations are based on intermolecular forces, external factors such as temperature and pH also play a role in spontaneous self-assembly.\n\nAs nanoparticle interactions take place on a nanoscale, the particle interactions must be scaled similarly. Hamaker interactions take into account the polarization characteristics of a large number of nearby particles and the effects they have on each other. Hamaker interactions sum all of the forces between all particles and the solvent(s) involved in the system. While Hamaker theory generally describes a macroscopic system, the vast number of nanoparticles in a self-assembling system allows the term to be applicable. Hamaker constants for nanoparticles are calculated using Lifshitz theory, and can often be found in literature.\n\nThe natural ability of nanoparticles to self-assemble can be replicated in systems that do not intrinsically self-assemble. Directed self-assembly (DSA) attempts to mimic the chemical properties of self-assembling systems, while simultaneously controlling the thermodynamic system to maximize self-assembly.\n\nExternal fields are the most common directors of self-assembly. Electric and magnetic fields allow induced interactions to align the particles. The fields take advantage of the polarizability of the nanoparticle and its functional groups. When these field-induced interactions overcome random Brownian motion, particles join to form chains and then assemble. At more modest field strengths, ordered crystal structures are established due to the induced dipole interactions. Electric and magnetic field direction requires a constant balance between thermal energy and interaction energies.\n\nCommon ways of incorporating nanoparticle self-assembly with a flow include Langmuir-Blodgett, dip coating, flow coating and spin coating.\n\nMacroscopic viscous flow fields can direct self-assembly of a random solution of particles into ordered crystals. However, the assembled particles tend to disassemble when the flow is stopped or removed. Shear flows are useful for jammed suspensions or random close packing. As these systems begin in nonequilibrium, flow fields are useful in that they help the system relax towards ordered equilibrium. Flow fields are also useful when dealing with complex matrices that themselves have rheological behavior. Flow can induce anisotropic viseoelastic stresses, which helps to overcome the matrix and cause self-assembly.\n\nLarge amplitude oscillatory shear (LAOS) is most effective for particles that are 100 nm-1 µm in size. Hard and soft shears can order in steady shear. However, this assembly strongly relies on particle volume fraction, particle interaction potentials, polydisterity, and shear rate and strain. The large amount of directing factors can cause complications in directing self-assembly by LAOS. Diblock copolymer micells have been studied in regard to structuring nanoparticles in bulk.\n\nThe most effective self-assembly director is a combination of fields. If the fields and conditions are optimized, self-assembly can be permanent and complete. When a field combination is used with nanoparticles that are tailored to be intrinsically responsive, the most complete assembly is observed. Combinations of fields allow the benefits of self-assembly, such as scalability and simplicity, to be maintained while being able to control orientation and structure formation. Field combinations possess the greatest potential for future directed self-assembly work.\n\nNano-particles can self-assemble on solid surfaces after applying external forces (like magnetic, electric, and flow) as mentioned in the above section. Templates made of microstructures like carbon nanotubes or block polymers can also be used to assist in self-assembly; they cause directed self-assembly (DSA) in which active sites are embedded to selectively induce nanoparticle deposition. Such templates are considered as any object onto which different particles can be arranged into a structure with a morphology similar to that of the template. Carbon nanotubes (microstructures), single molecules, or block copolymers are common templates. Nanoparticles are often shown to self-assemble within distances of nanometers and micrometers, but block copolymer templates can be used to form well-defined self-assemblies over macroscopic distances. By incorporating active sites to the surfaces of nanotubes and polymers, the functionalization of these templates can be transformed to favor self-assembly of specified nanoparticles.\n\nPickering and Ramsden explained the idea of pickering emulsions when experimenting with paraffin-water emulsions with solid particles like iron oxide and silicon dioxide. They observed that the micron-sized colloids generated a resistant film at the interface between the two immiscible phases, inhibiting the coalescence of the emulsion drops. These Pickering emulsions, as shown in the figure below, are formed from the self-assembly of colloidal particles in two-part liquid systems, such as oil-water systems. The desorption energy, which is directly related to the stability of emulsions depends on the particle size, particle-particle interaction and, of course, particle-water and particle-oil interactions. \n\nA decrease in total free energy was observed to be a result from the assembly of nanoparticles at an oil/water (O/W) interface. This is shown in the following equation in which a particle with radius r at an interface between oil (O) and water (W) results in a decrease of the initial interfacial energy E to E; this difference in energy is ΔE.\n\nAt a fixed γ, γ, and γ, the equation shows that the stability of a particle assembly is determined by the radius square. When moving to the interface, particles reduce the unfavorable contact between the immiscible fluids and decrease the interfacial energy. The decrease in total free energy for microscopic particles is much larger than that of thermal energy; this results in an effective confinement of large colloids to the interface. They are irreversibly bound to the interface. Nanoscopic particles are restricted to the interface by an energy reduction comparable to thermal energy. Thus, nanoparticles are easily displaced from the interface. A constant particle exchange then occurs at the interface; the rate of this exchange depends on particle size. The thermally activated escape of small particles occurs more often than larger particles. For the equilibrium state of assembly, the total gain in free energy is smaller for smaller particles. Thus, large nanoparticles assemblies are more stable. This size dependence allows nanoparticles to self-assemble at the interface to attain its equilibrium structure. Micrometer- size colloids, on the other hand, may be confined in a non-equilibrium state.\n\nThe interfacial tension and the wettability of a particle surface affect the desorption energy. The contact angle θ between the solid and the oil/water interface determines its wettability. As shown in the figure below, a contact angle θ greater than 90° favors a water-in-oil emersion while a contact angle θ less than 90° favors oil-in-water emulsion. These contact angles affect the stability of the emulsion.\n\nA maximum desorption energy peak is observed at a contact angle of 90°. When the contact angle is greater than or less than this point, the desorption energy gradually decreases; thus, the stability of the emulsion decreases as well.\n\nMaterial that consists with nano-particles is called \"nanostructured material\". The phase of \"nanostructured material\" implies two important ideas:\n\nSelf-assembly of nanoscale structures from functional nanoparticles has provided a powerful path to developing small and powerful electronic components. The difficulty of applied nanostructure material is nanoscale objects have always been difficult to manipulate because they cannot be characterized by molecular techniques and they are too small to observe optically. 2D self-assembly monodisperse particle colloids has a strong potential in dense magnetic storage media. Each colloid particle has the ability to store information as known as binary number 0 and 1 after applying it to a strong magnetic field. In the meantime, it requires a nanoscale sensor or detector in order to selectively choose the colloid particle.\n\nBlock copolymers offer the ability to self-assemble into uniform, nanosized micelles and accumulate in tumors via the enhanced permeability and retention effect. Polymer composition can be chosen to control the micelle size and compatibility with the drug of choice. The challenges of this application are the difficulty of reproducing or controlling the size of self-assembly nano micelle, preparing predictable size-distribution, and the stability of the micelle with high drug load content.\n\nMagnetic nanochains are a class of new magnetoresponsive and superparamagnetic nanostructures with highly anisotropic shapes (chain-like) which can be manipulated using magnetic field and magnetic field gradient. The magnetic nanochains possess attractive properties which are significant added value for many potential uses including magneto-mechanical actuation-associated nanomedicines in low and super-low frequency alternating magnetic field and magnetic drug delivery.\n\n"}
{"id": "51684051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51684051", "title": "Shawn Grate", "text": "Shawn Grate\n\nShawn Michael Grate (born August 8, 1976) is an American convicted serial killer who was convicted on two counts of aggravated murder on May 7th, 2018, in Ashland County, Ohio.\n\nGrate graduated from River Valley High School in 1995.\n\nA grand jury indicted Grate on two counts of aggravated murder in the deaths of two women, Stacey Stanley and Elizabeth Griffith, and the kidnapping and multiple sexual assaults of an unidentified woman whose 911 call to Ashland police led to Grate's arrest on September 13, 2016. In court documents, her name has been redacted; she is being referred to as \"Jane Doe\". In total, Grate was indicted on 23 counts, all first, second, or third-degree felonies; lesser charges include breaking and entering, burglary, and tampering with evidence. He was represented in court by court-appointed attorney Rolf Whitney, who entered a plea of not guilty on all charges on behalf of Grate. In a press interview, however, Grate confessed to five murders. Grate's attorneys later filed a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity. His trial date was set for November 6, 2017, and was later delayed to April 9, 2018.\n\nAshland County prosecutor Christopher R. Tunnell said that given the \"...depraved actions and the gruesome evidence\", he would seek the death penalty.\n\nShawn Grate has also been charged in the deaths of his former girlfriend Candice Cunningham and Rebekah Leicy in neighboring Richland County, and has not yet been charged in the death of an unknown woman who died between 2005 and 2006 who was found in 2007 in Marion County. However, in the second of two letters he sent to Cleveland news station WEWS (News 5 Cleveland) reporter Megan Hickey, Grate attributed his motives to \"government assistance\", writing that it took his victims' minds. \"They were already dead, just their bodies were flopping wherever it can flop but their minds were already dead! The state took their minds. Once they started receiving their monthly checks\". Grate claimed he once received a $197 food card and that he, \"Never was able to receive any encouragement, though many bodies received 700\".\n\nAfter Grate had given out details of the murders to two different news organizations while in custody, attorneys for the defense and prosecution jointly requested and obtained a gag order preventing Grate from communicating any further with the media. On January 6, 2017, a competency hearing determined Grate is fit to stand trial. An evaluation released March 6 based on a January 17 assessment to evaluate Grate's claim of insanity declared that he was not insane at the time the crimes were committed. Grate's counsel then withdrew the plea of not guilty by reason of insanity on April 7, 2017.\nIn a settlement with the owner, the City of Ashland obtained ownership of the house where Grate was apprehended, two bodies were discovered, and a kidnapped woman was rescued by police. The city is pursuing a federal grant with the intention of demolishing the house.\n\n“There is a settlement agreement among the parties that essentially obligates the Pump House to transfer all property that is the subject of this action to the city of Ashland and transfer their title there too, provided that the city pays off the sums owed to the county for delinquent taxes and to the Muskingum Watershed District,” said Andrew Bush, assistant law director for the city of Ashland.\n\nGrate's trial for the Ashland crimes began with two weeks of jury selection on April 9, 2018. The trial began with opening statements on April 23. On May 2, Grate pleaded guilty to 15 of the charges against him. On May 7, Grate was found guilty of murdering Stacey Stanley and Elizabeth Griffith. On June 1, Grate was sentenced to death. An initial execution date was set upon conviction for September 13, 2018, however the execution was stayed due to a pending appeal to the Ohio Supreme Court.\n\nDefense counsel in the trial were Robert Whitney and Rolf Whitney. The prosecution team was Ashland Prosecutor Chris Tunnell, Medina County Assistant Prosecutor Michael McNamara and Special Prosecutor Mark Weaver.\n\nWhile Grate slept, the victim identified by the indictment only as \"Jane Doe\" called 911 from the Ashland house where Grate had held her for three days. She was safely rescued by Ashland police. Because she was the victim of a sexual assault, police declined to reveal her identity. Grate claims he did not plan to kill her and that they were going to get married.\n\nStanley's family had reported her missing the week before Grate was arrested. Her body was found at the Ashland house where Grate was arrested. She is also known as Stacy Hicks. An autopsy concluded she was strangled to death.\n\nGriffith had been missing for about a month before Grate was arrested. Her body was found at the Ashland house where Grate was arrested. An autopsy concluded she was strangled to death.\n\nGrate led police to what he claimed was Cunningham's body in neighboring Richland County on the day of his arrest. Police found the body behind a house that had previously burned down. The Richland County Sheriff's office officially confirmed that the body found was Cunningham's on November 1, 2016.\n\nBased on information supplied by Grate, police have reopened the investigation into Leicy's death. Her body was found in March 2015, and her death was originally ruled a drug overdose. Grate says he strangled her after she stole $4 from him in a bar.\n\nGrate claims to have killed another woman who was found dead in Marion County in 2007 and never identified. He has stated he believes her name was Dana. In January 2018, isotope analysis indicated she was likely from the southern United States. \n"}
{"id": "4847593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4847593", "title": "Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum Award for Medical Sciences", "text": "Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum Award for Medical Sciences\n\nThe Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum Award for Medical Sciences was established on 10 April 1999, when Sheikh Maktoum bin Rashid Al Maktoum, UAE Vice President, and Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, issued the Supreme Decree No. (5) to establish the award, with the objective of honouring scientists from every part of the world who pursue medical research that serves the larger interests of humanity. \n\nThe award recognizes the importance of scientific research in the UAE, and funds domestic health research.\n\nAll contributors to the alleviation of sufferings of patients and care for community health are eligible for the award.\n\nThe topics of the first term, 1999-2000 were selected to be for Grand Hamdan International Award - Cardiovascular Medicine and Surgery, and for Hamdan Award for Medical Research Excellence - Recombinant Vaccines in Infectious Diseases, Genetics in Diabetes, Therapy in Leukemia.\n\n\nThe topics of the second term, 2001-2002 were selected to be for Grand Hamdan International Award - Obstetrics & Gynecology, and for Hamdan Award for Medical Research Excellence - Gene Therapy of Inherited Disorders, Pathogenesis and Therapy of Autoimmune Disorders, Apoptosis in Disease & Health. Infertility is probably the single most common ailment to afflict men and women of reproductive age. It has been estimated that the level of infertility in the community is probably one out of every seven couples of reproductive age.\n\n\nThe topics of the third term, 2003-2004 were selected to be for Grand Hamdan International Award - Renal Diseases: Pathogenesis & Management, and for Hamdan Award for Medical Research Excellence - Emerging Viral & Prion Diseases, Minimally Invasive Surgical Technology, Prevention & Non-invasive Therapy of Gastrointestinal Disorders. Renal disease affects people of all ages and lead to considerable distress and early death for a significant number of persons. Kidney disease appears at all ages with newborn babies being affected with congenital and genetic problems, young children developing kidney problems as a primary condition or as a complication of other disease. The elderly, especially, are prone to develop kidney problems and renal failure as their health deteriorates.\n\n\nThe topics of the fourth term, 2005-2006 were selected to be for Grand Hamdan International Award - Molecular and Cellular Pathology of Neurological Disorders, and for Hamdan Award for Medical Research Excellence - Biology of Aging, Cytokines in Pathogenesis & Therapy of Diseases, Pathogenesis of Hypertension. Neurological disorders are more prominent today than at perhaps any other time in history. Neurological disorders affect the central nervous system, the peripheral nervous system, and the autonomic nervous system. Scientists use the tools of molecular biology, biochemistry and cell biology to probe into and advance in understanding the processes, which underlie neurological disorders.\n\n\nThe topics of the fifth term, 2007-2008 were selected to be for Grand Hamdan International Award - Stem Cells Research, and for Hamdan Award for Medical Research Excellence - Therapy in Malignancy, Molecular Therapy in Drug Targeting (Pharmacogenomics), Organ & Tissue Transplantation. Stem cells are one of the most fascinating areas of biology today. Knowledge in this field has advanced in the area of healthy cell replacement of damaged cells and in the area of the development of an organism from a single cell, a promising area of science leading scientists to investigate the possibility of cell-based therapies to treat disease. Scientists have hypothesized that stem cells may be the basis of treating diseases like Parkinson's disease, diabetes, and heart disease.\n\n\nThe topics of the sixth term, 2009-2010 were selected to be for Grand Hamdan International Award - Diabetes Mellitus, and for Hamdan Award for Medical Research Excellence - Obesity, Osteoporosis, Thyroid Disease. Many questions about development of diabetes and its complications remain unanswered. For example, not all individuals are equally susceptible to diabetes or its complications. Differences in the genetic make-up of people, and perhaps differences in early-life conditions, must account for this. Finding genes or other markers associated with the development of diabetes and its complications potentially offers avenues for improved screening, diagnostics, and therapeutics.\n\n\nThe topics of the seventh term, 2011-2012 were selected to be for Grand Hamdan International Award -Neonatal Medicine, and for Hamdan Award for Medical Research Excellence - Fetal Medicine, Nutrition in Infants, Inborn Errors of Metabolism. Benefits of antenatal care have been recognized by most mothers, and has resulted in the decrease in incidence of neural tube defects and the fetal alcohol syndrome. Complex new technologies like extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) and simple ones like the administration of surfactant resulted in increased survival of very small babies who would have succumbed to their illnesses a few years ago.\n\n\nThe topics of the 8th term, 2013-2014 were selected to be for Grand Hamdan International Award - Drug Discovery and for Hamdan Award for Medical Research Excellence - Vaccines, Targeted Therapy and Cell Therapy. \n\n\nThe center is working on setting up the organizing procedures for supporting and managing conferences, scientific courses and medical symposiums to highlight the award leading role in the program fields, continuous medical education programs and community services through moral and financial support to medical events held in UAE, aiming to elevate the level of medical services, developing skills of medical staff and increasing health and cultural awareness level of community members.\n\nThe \"Hamdan Medical Journal\" (\"HMJ\") is an online-only biomedical journal that presents original research, opinions and perspectives on aspects of international medicine. The journal publishes themed issues which provide summaries and reviews to help busy clinicians keep up to date with recent research and practice. The journal also publishes original research and other articles within each issue. The journal welcomes submissions, proposals and comments from medical practitioners around the world.\n\nThe award is offering all financial and logistics facilities to support the scientific research process in the UAE through establishing the Research Support Center, including a selection of the best specialists, who are studying all the requests, arranging the awarding process, following up procedure of scientific research directions and recognizing scientific results for all the researches issued by educational institutions and research centers which will enrich scientific research and fill the gaps of the medical science studies and researches in UAE.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "963152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=963152", "title": "Spaniards", "text": "Spaniards\n\nSpaniards are a Romance ethnic group and nation. They are indigenous to Spain and share a common Spanish culture, history, ancestry, and language. Within Spain, there are a number of nationalisms and regionalisms, reflecting the country's complex history and diverse culture. Although the official language of Spain is commonly known as \"Spanish\", it is only one of the national languages of Spain, and is less ambiguously known as Castilian, a standard language based on the medieval romance speech of the early Kingdom of Castile in north-central Spain and the Mozarabic dialect of the Taifa of Toledo which was incorporated by the former in the 11th century. There are several commonly spoken regional languages, most notably Basque (a Paleohispanic language), Catalan and Galician (both Romance languages like Castilian). There are many populations outside Spain with ancestors who emigrated from Spain and who share a Hispanic culture; most notably in Hispanic America.\n\nThe Roman Republic conquered Iberia during the 2nd and 1st centuries BC. As a result of Roman colonization, the majority of local languages, with the exception of Basque, stem from the Vulgar Latin. The Germanic Vandals and Suebi, with part of the Iranian Alans under King Respendial conquered the peninsula in 409 AD. In turn, the Visigoths established themselves in Spain, founding the Visigothic Kingdom. The Iberian Peninsula was conquered and brought under the rule of the Arab Umayyads in 711 and by the Berber North African dynasties the Almohads and the Almoravids in the 11th and 12th centuries. Following the eight century Christian Reconquista against the Moors, the modern Spanish state was formed with the union of the Kingdoms of Castille and Aragon, the conquest of the last Muslim Nasrid Kingdom of Granada and the Canary Islands in the late 15th century. In the early 16th century the Kingdom of Navarre was also conquered. As Spain expanded its empire in the Americas, religious minorities in Spain such as Jews and Muslims were either converted or expelled and the Catholic church fiercely persecuted heresy during a period known as the Spanish Inquisition. A small number of Spaniards descend from converted Jewish and North Africans, as a result of the 800 years of Moorish occupation of Spain.\n\nIn parallel, a wave of emigration to the Americas began, with over 1.86 million Spaniards (\"la emigracion espanola a America) emigrating to the Spanish Americas during the colonial period (1492-1824) and the population of the Spanish Empire had risen to 16.8 million by the end of the 18th century In the post-colonial period (1850–1950), a further 3.5 million Spanish left for the Americas, particularly Argentina, Uruguay, Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Venezuela, Puerto Rico and Cuba. As a result, the inhabitants of Latin America (including Brasil) who have Spanish ancestors, all of in part, number a very high percentage the region's population of 600 million. \n\nSpain is home to one of the largest communities of Romani people (commonly known by the English exonym \"gypsies\", Spanish: \"gitanos\"). The Spanish Roma, which belong to the Iberian Kale subgroup (\"calé\"), are a formerly-nomadic community, which spread across Western Asia, North Africa, and Europe, first reaching Spain in the 15th century. The population of Spain is becoming increasingly diverse due to recent immigration. From 2000 to 2010, Spain had among the highest per capita immigration rates in the world and the second highest absolute net migration in the World (after the United States) and immigrants now make up about 10% of the population. Nevertheless, the prolonged economic crisis between 2008 and 2015 significantly reduced both immigration rates and the total number of foreigners in the country, Spain becoming once more a net emigrant country.\n\nThe earliest modern humans inhabiting Spain are believed to have been Neolithic peoples who may have arrived in the Iberian Peninsula as early as 35,000–40,000 years ago. In more recent times the Iberians are believed to have arrived or developed in the region between the 4th millennium BC and the 3rd millennium BC, initially settling along the Mediterranean coast.\nCelts settled in Spain during the Iron Age. Some of those tribes in North-central Spain, which had cultural contact with the Iberians, are called Celtiberians. In addition, a group known as the Tartessians and later Turdetanians inhabited southwestern Spain and who are believed to have developed a separate civilization of Phoenician influence. The seafaring Phoenicians, Greeks, and Carthaginians successively founded trading colonies along the Mediterranean coast over a period of several centuries. The Second Punic War between the Carthaginians and Romans was fought mainly in what is now Spain and Portugal.\n\nThe Roman Republic conquered Iberia during the 2nd and 1st centuries BC transformed most of the region into a series of Latin-speaking provinces. As a result of Roman colonization, the majority of local languages, with the exception of Basque, stem from the Vulgar Latin that was spoken in Hispania (Roman Iberia), which evolved into the modern languages of the Iberian Peninsula, including \"Castilian\", which became the main \"lingua franca\" of Spain, and is now known in most countries as Spanish. Hispania emerged as an important part of the Roman Empire and produced notable historical figures such as Trajan, Hadrian, Seneca and Quintilian.\n\nThe Germanic Vandals and Suebi, with part of the Iranian Alans under King Respendial, arrived in the peninsula in 409 AD. Part of the Vandals with the remaining Alans, now under Geiseric in personal union removed themselves to North Africa after a few conflicts with another Germanic tribe, the Visigoths, who established in Toulouse supported Roman campaigns against the Vandals and Alans in 415–19 AD and became the dominant power in Iberia for three centuries. The Visigoths were highly romanized in the eastern Empire and already Christians, so their integration within the late Iberian-Roman culture was full; they accepted the laws and structures of the late Roman World with little change, more than any other successor barbarian state in the West after the Ostrogoths, and all the more so after converting away from Arianism. The other Germanic tribe remaining in the peninsula, the Suebi (including the Buri), became established according to sources as \"federates\" of the Roman Empire in the old North western Roman province of Gallaecia, but in fact largely independent and predatory on neighboring provinces to stretch their political control over ever-larger portions of the southwest after the Vandals and Alans left, creating a totally independent Suebic Kingdom. After being checked and reduced in 456 AD by the Visigoths moving to settle in the peninsula, it survived until 585 AD, when it was annihilated as an independent political unit by the Visigoths, after involvement in the internal affairs of the kingdom, supporting Catholic rebellions and sedition within the Royal family. The Suebi became the first Germanic kingdom to convert officially to Roman Catholicism in 447 AD. under king Rechiar.\n\nAfter two centuries of domination by the Visigothic Kingdom, the Iberian Peninsula was invaded by a Muslim force under Tariq Bin Ziyad in 711. This army consisted mainly ethnic Berbers from the Ghomara tribe, which were reinforced by Arabs from Syria once the conquest was complete. The Visigothic Kingdom which to that point controlled the entire peninsula totally collapsed and the entire peninsula was conquered except for a remote mountainous area in the far north which would eventually become the Christian Kingdom of Asturias. Muslim Iberia became part of the Umayyad Caliphate and would be known as Al-Andalus. The Berbers of Al Andalus revolted as early as 740 AD, halting Arab expansion across the Pyrenees into France. Upon the collapse of the Umayyad in Damascus, Spain was seized by Yusuf al Fihri, until the arrival of exiled Umayyad Prince Abd al-Rahman I, who seized power, establishing himself as Emir of Cordoba. Abd al Rahman III, his grandson, proclaimed a Caliphate in 929, marking the beginning of the Golden Age of Al Andalus, a polity which was the effective power of the peninsula and even Western North Africa, competing with the Shiite rulers of Tunis and constantly raiding the small Christian Kingdoms in the North.\n\nThe Caliphate of Córdoba effectively collapsed during a ruinous civil war between 1009 and 1013, although it was not finally abolished until 1031 when al-Andalus broke up into a number of mostly independent mini-states and principalities called taifas. These were generally too weak to defend themselves against repeated raids and demands for tribute from the Christian states to the north and west, which were known to the Muslims as \"the Galician nations\",[16] and which had spread from their initial strongholds in Galicia, Asturias, Cantabria, the Basque country, and the Carolingian Marca Hispanica to become the Kingdoms of Navarre, León, Portugal, Castile and Aragon, and the County of Barcelona. Eventually raids turned into conquests, and in response the Taifa kings were forced to request help from the Almoravids, Muslim Berber rulers of the Maghreb. Their desperate maneuver would eventually fall to their disadvantage, however, as the Almoravids they had summoned from the south went on to conquer and annex all the Taifa kingdoms.\n\nIn 1086 the Almoravid ruler of Morocco, Yusuf ibn Tashfin, was invited by the Muslim princes in Iberia to defend them against Alfonso VI, King of Castile and León. In that year, Tashfin crossed the straits to Algeciras and inflicted a severe defeat on the Christians at the Battle of Sagrajas. By 1094, Yusuf ibn Tashfin had removed all Muslim princes in Iberia and had annexed their states, except for the one at Zaragoza. He also regained Valencia from the Christians. About this time a massive process of conversion to Islam took place, Muslims comprising the majority of the population Spain the 11th century. The Almoravids were succeeded by the Almohads, another Berber dynasty, after the victory of Abu Yusuf Ya'qub al-Mansur over the Castilian Alfonso VIII at the Battle of Alarcos in 1195. In 1212 a coalition of Christian kings under the leadership of the Castilian Alfonso VIII defeated the Almohads at the Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa. The Almohads continued to rule Al-Andalus for another decade, though with much reduced power and prestige. The civil wars following the death of Abu Ya'qub Yusuf II rapidly led to the re-establishment of taifas. The taifas, newly independent but now weakened, were quickly conquered by Portugal, Castile, and Aragon. After the fall of Murcia (1243) and the Algarve (1249), only the Emirate of Granada survived as a Muslim state, and only as a tributary of Castile until 1492.\n\nIn 1469 the marriage of Ferdinand of Aragon and Isabella of Castile signaled the launch of the final assault on the Emirate of Granada. The King and Queen convinced the Pope to declare their war a crusade. The Christians crushed one center of resistance after another and finally, in January 1492, after a long siege, the Moorish sultan Muhammad XII surrendered the fortress palace, the renowned Alhambra.\n\nThe Canary Islands were conquered between 1402 and 1496 and their indigenous Berber populations, the Guanches, were gradually absorbed by Spanish settlers.\n\nSpanish conquest of the Iberian part of Navarre was commenced by Ferdinand II of Aragon and completed by Charles V in a series of military campaigns extending from 1512 to 1524, while the war lasted until 1528 in the Navarre to the north of the Pyrenees. Between 1568-1571, Charles V armies fought and defeated a general insurrection of the Muslims of the mountains of Granada, after which he ordered the dispersal of up to 80,000 Granadans throughout Spain.\n\nThe union of the Christian kingdoms of Castile and Aragon as well as the conquest of Granada, Navarre and the Canary Islands led to the formation of the Spanish state as known today. This allowed for the development of a Spanish identity based on the Spanish language and a local form of Catholicism, which slowly took hold in a territory which remained culturally, linguistically and religiously very diverse.\n\nA majority of Jews were forcibly converted to Catholicism during the 14th and 15th centuries and those remaining were expelled from Spain in 1492. The open practice of Islam was by Spain's sizeable Mudejar population was similarly outlawed. Furthermore, between 1609 and 1614, a significant number of Moriscos— (Muslims who had been baptized Catholic) were expelled by royal decree. Although initial estimates of the number of Moriscos expelled such as those of Henri Lapeyre reach 300,000 moriscos (or 4% of the total Spanish population), the extent and severity of the expulsion has been increasingly challenged by modern historians. Nevertheless, the eastern region of Valencia, where ethnic tensions were highest, was particularly affected by the expulsion, suffering economic collapse and depopulation of much of its territory.\n\nIn the 16th century, following the military conquest of most of the new continent, perhaps 240,000 Spaniards entered American ports. They were joined by 450,000 in the next century. It is estimated that during the colonial period (1492–1832), a total of 1.86 million Spaniards settled in the Americas and a further 3.5 million immigrated during the post-colonial era (1850–1950); the estimate is 250,000 in the 16th century, and most during the 18th century as immigration was encouraged by the new Bourbon Dynasty. In contrast, the outcome for indigenous populations was much worse, with an estimated 8 million deaths following the initial conquest through contact with old world diseases. After the conquest of Mexico and Peru these two regions became the principal destinations of Spanish colonial settlers in the 16th century. In the period 1850–1950, 3.5 million Spanish left for the Americas, particularly Argentina, Uruguay, Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Venezuela, and Cuba. From 1840 to 1890, as many as 40,000 Canary Islanders emigrated to Venezuela. 94,000 Spaniards chose to go to Algeria in the last years of the 19th century, and 250,000 Spaniards lived in Morocco at the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nBy the end of the Spanish Civil War, some 500,000 Spanish Republican refugees had crossed\nthe border into France. From 1961 to 1974, at the height of the guest worker in Western Europe, about 100,000 Spaniards emigrated each year.\n\nWithin Spain, there are various regional populations including the Andalusians, Castilians, the Catalans, Valencians and Balearics (who speak Catalan, a distinct Romance language in eastern Spain), the Basques (who live in the Basque country and north of Navarre and speak Basque, a non-Indo-European language), and the Galicians (who speak Galician, a descendant of old Galician-Portuguese).\n\nRespect to the existing cultural pluralism is important to many Spaniards. In many regions there exist strong regional identities such as Asturias, Aragon, the Canary Islands, León, and Andalusia, while in others (like Catalonia, Basque Country or Galicia) there are stronger national sentiments. Some of them refuse to identify themselves with the Spanish ethnic group and prefer some of the following:\n\nSpain is home to one of the largest communities of Romani people (commonly known by the English exonym \"gypsies\", Spanish: \"gitanos\"). The Spanish Roma, which belong to the Iberian Kale subgroup (\"calé\"), are a formerly-nomadic community, which spread across Western Asia, North Africa, and Europe, first reaching Spain in the 15th century.\n\nData on ethnicity is not collected in Spain, although the Government's statistical agency CIS estimated in 2007 that the number of Gitanos present in Spain is probably around one million. Most Spanish Roma live in the autonomous community of Andalusia, where they have traditionally enjoyed a higher degree of integration than in the rest of the country. A number of Spanish Calé also live in Southern France, especially in the region of Perpignan.\n\nThe population of Spain is becoming increasingly diverse due to recent immigration. From 2000 to 2010, Spain had among the highest per capita immigration rates in the world and the second highest absolute net migration in the World (after the United States) and immigrants now make up about 10% of the population. Since 2000, Spain has absorbed more than 3 million immigrants, with thousands more arriving each year. Immigrant population now tops over 4.5 million. They come mainly from Europe, Latin America, China, the Philippines, North Africa, and West Africa.\n\nLanguages spoken in Spain include Spanish (\"castellano\" or \"español\") (74%), Catalan (\"català\", called \"valencià\" in the Valencian Community) (17%), Galician (\"galego\") (7%), and Basque (\"euskara\") (2%). Other languages are Asturian (\"asturianu\"), Aranese Gascon (\"aranés\"), Aragonese (\"aragonés\"), and Leonese, each with their own various dialects. Spanish is the official state language, although the other languages are co-official in a number of autonomous communities.\n\nPeninsular Spanish is largely considered to be divided into two main dialects: Castilian Spanish (spoken in the northern half of the country) and Andalusian Spanish (spoken mainly in Andalusia). However, a large part of Spain, including Madrid, Extremadura, Murcia, and Castile–La Mancha, speak local dialects known as \"transitional dialects\" between Andalusian and Castilian Spanish. The Canary Islands also have a distinct dialect of Castilian Spanish which is very close to Caribbean Spanish. Linguistically, the Spanish language is a Romance language and is one of the aspects (including laws and general \"ways of life\") that causes Spaniards to be labelled a Latin people. The strong Arabic influence on the language (nearly 4,000 words are of Arabic origin, including nouns, verbs and adjectives.) and the independent evolution of the language itself through history, most notably the Basque influence at the formative stage of Castilian Romance, partially explain its difference from other Romance languages. The Basque language left a strong imprint on Spanish both linguistically and phonetically. Other changes in Spanish have come from borrowings from English and French, although English influence is stronger in Latin America than in Spain.\n\nThe number of speakers of Spanish as a mother tongue is roughly 35.6 million, while the vast majority of other groups in Spain such as the Galicians, Catalans, and Basques also speak Spanish as a first or second language, which boosts the number of Spanish speakers to the overwhelming majority of Spain's population of 46 million.\n\nSpanish was exported to the Americas due to over three centuries of Spanish colonial rule starting with the arrival of Christopher Columbus to Santo Domingo in 1492. Spanish is spoken natively by over 400 million people and spans across most countries of the Americas; from the Southwestern United States in North America down to Tierra del Fuego, the southernmost region of South America in Chile and Argentina. A variety of the language, known as Judaeo-Spanish or Ladino (or Haketia in Morocco), is still spoken by descendants of Sephardim (Spanish and Portuguese Jews) who fled Spain following a decree of expulsion of practising Jews in 1492. Also, a Spanish creole language known as Chabacano, which developed by the mixing of Spanish and native Tagalog and Cebuano languages during Spain's rule of the country through Mexico from 1565 to 1898, is spoken in the Philippines (by roughly 1 million people).\n\nRoman Catholicism is by far the largest denomination present in Spain. According to a study by the Spanish Centre for Sociological Research in 2013 about 71% of Spaniards self-identify as Catholics, 2% other faith, and about 25% identify as atheists or declare they have no religion.\n\nOutside of Europe, Latin America has the largest population of people with ancestors from Spain. These include people of full or partial Spanish ancestry.\n\nThe listings above shows the ten countries with known collected data on people with ancestors from Spain, although the definitions of each of these are somewhat different and the numbers cannot really be compared. Spanish Chilean of Chile and Spanish Uruguayan of Uruguay could be included by percentage (each at above 40%) instead of numeral size.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "465433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=465433", "title": "Tenoch", "text": "Tenoch\n\nTenoch (or Tenuch, ) was a ruler of the Mexicas (Aztecas) during the fourteenth century during the Aztec travels from Aztlán to Tenochtitlan. Tenoch's father was Iztacmixcoatl, who had a total of seven sons with two wives. The Tenochtitlan people were originally referred to as Tenochca, then the Mexica.\n\nHe was a respected chief who was elected to power by the council of elders and died in 1375. There is disagreement whether Tenoch is a mythological person or a real Mexica leader who was later mythologized. Tenoch was one of nine Mexica leaders who were told how Mexica could gain support from the forces of nature.\n\nAfter traveling southward for a span of 200 years, the Mexica found the sign. In honor of their leader, they named the small, reedy island in Lake Texcoco, Tenochtitlan. Tenochtitlan soon became the capital of the Aztec Empire.\n\nThe Nahuatl symbols of his name are found in the Mexican flag: \"Tetl\", the rock, and \"Nochtli\", the prickly pear cactus.\n"}
{"id": "3752927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3752927", "title": "The Sirian Experiments", "text": "The Sirian Experiments\n\nThe Sirian Experiments is a 1980 science fiction novel by Doris Lessing. It is the third book in her five-book \"Canopus in Argos\" series and continues the story of Earth's evolution, which has been manipulated from the beginning by advanced extraterrestrial civilisations. It was first published in the United States in December 1980 by Alfred A. Knopf, and in the United Kingdom in March 1981 by Jonathan Cape. The book was shortlisted for the Booker Prize in 1981.\n\n\"The Sirian Experiments\" relates directly to the first book in this series, \"Shikasta\", which is the history of the planet Shikasta (an allegorical Earth) under the influence of three galactic empires, Canopus, Sirius and their mutual enemy, Puttiora. \"Shikasta\" is told from the Canopean viewpoint. \"The Sirian Experiments\" (subtitled \"The Report by Ambien II, of the Five\") tells the story of Shikasta from the Sirian point of view and describes the activities of Sirians on the planet and the strained relations of Sirius with Canopus.\n\nLessing stated in an afterword in the next book in this series that \"The Sirian Experiments\" and \"The Making of the Representative for Planet 8\" were inspired by her 50-year fascination with the ill-fated 1910–13 Antarctic expedition of Robert Falcon Scott.\n\nBecause of its focus on characterisation and social/cultural issues, and the de-emphasis of technological details, \"The Sirian Experiments\" is not strictly science fiction but soft science fiction, or \"space fiction\" as Lessing calls her \"Canopus in Argos\" series. Robert Alter of \"The New York Times\" suggested that this kind of writing belongs to a genre literary critic Northrop Frye called the \"anatomy\", which is \"a combination of fantasy and morality\" and that \"presents us with a vision of the world in terms of a single intellectual pattern.\" Lessing has stated that she has used this series as a vehicle to \"put questions, both to myself and to others\" and to \"explore ideas and sociological possibilities.\"\n\nWhile Lessing's switch to \"science fiction\" in the late 1970s was not well received by all, the series in general has drawn positive criticism. Two reviews of \"The Sirian Experiments\" in \"The New York Times\" said that Lessing achieves \"… a largeness of vision beyond the horizon of the conventional novel.\" and that it has \"… some playful moments and some splendid ones. It is interesting, however, primarily because Doris Lessing wrote it.\" \"Time\" on the other hand, which had spoken highly of the first two books in this series, felt that this one \"may be a small misstep on a long journey.\"\n\nThe Sirian Empire, centred in the Sirius star system, has advanced technology that made their citizens effectively immortal (barring accidents) and sophisticated machines that did almost everything for them. But this technology came at a price: many Sirians became afflicted with \"the existentials\", a debilitating malady that left them feeling worthless and with no reason to exist. To overcome this problem and give its people \"something to do\", Sirius embarked on a conquest of space and colonised many planets. But they also encroached on territory of the superior Canopean Empire that led to a costly war, which Canopus won. As a gesture of reconciliation, Canopus returned all the captured Sirian territory and invited Sirius to jointly colonise a new and promising planet called Rohanda (an allegorical Earth). Canopus took the northern continents and gave Sirius the southern continents.\n\nAmbien II, one of the Five who run the Sirian Colonial Service and also govern the Sirian Empire, represents Sirius on Rohanda. She sets in motion a series of bio-sociological and genetic experiments where large numbers of primitive indigenous people from Sirian colonised planets are space-lifted to Rohanda and adapted there for work elsewhere in the Empire. In the north, Canopus nurtures Rohanda's bourgeoning humanoids and accelerates their evolution. They also put a Lock on the planet that links it to the harmony and strength of the Canopean Empire. Canopus keeps Ambien II updated with reports of all their work, but she is suspicious of Sirius's former enemy, seeing them as a competitor rather than a partner, and is unable to correctly interpret them.\n\nThen an unforeseen \"cosmic re-alignment\" breaks the Lock and Shammat of the malicious Puttiora Empire begins exploiting the situation by corrupting Rohanda's Natives. Canopus, seeing Rohanda decline, renames the planet Shikasta (the stricken). Sirius, unconcerned about Canopus's troubles in the north, continue to refer to the planet as Rohanda.\n\nIn an attempt to foster better relations with Sirius, Klorathy, a senior Canopean Colonial administrator, invites Ambien II to observe events in their territory. Ambien II, eager to learn more about Canopus, agrees. As Rohanda evolves and civilisations come and go, Ambien II and Klorathy meet several times to watch Rohanda's degeneration. Canopus does what it can to help communities, but with Shammat's evil and a broken Lock, they make little progress. From time to time Klorathy requests Ambien II's help and while working on the planet, she meets Nasar, another Canopean official. She also encounters Tafta, the Shammat commander on Rohanda, and at one point nearly succumbs to his corruption.\n\nAmbien II eventually abandons the Sirian Experiments in the south when they are overrun by Shammat. The Five want her to abandon Rohanda altogether, but she has become too attached to the planet and is warming to Canopus and seeing the error of her (and Sirius's) ways. The Five question her ties to their former enemy, but when she tries to explain herself, they do not hear what she is saying, just as she initially could not hear what Canopus was saying. The Five then send her to Planet 13 on \"corrective exile\" to write a report on what has happened (this book). When she later releases the report, the Five issues a statement denying the authenticity of Ambien II's work.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35790175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35790175", "title": "The Three Amigos Campaign", "text": "The Three Amigos Campaign\n\n\"The Three Amigos\" is a series of 20 public service announcements (PSA) using three animated condoms to promote the use of safe sex as protection from contacting the HIV/AIDS virus. First shown at Bangkok's XV International AIDS Conference in 2004, the series was officially launched at the United Nations in 2005 in six languages. By 2012 it had been broadcast or used by NGOs, educational institutions, hospitals and others in 150 countries in 45 languages.\n\nThe series was co-created by Chocolate Moose Media's Firdaus Kharas and South African writer Brent Quinn. Episodes approach the subject with humor and are shown in 15-, 20-, 30- and 60-second animated spots. The hand-drawn animation series contains 14,000 drawings and was produced completely by volunteers in four countries. \"The Three Amigos\" campaign won a Peabody Award in 2006 as well as 29 other international awards, and has been the subject of numerous articles and academic writing. Distribution to all users throughout the world is free.\n\nWorldwide dissemination has coincided with a significant decrease in new AIDS cases, according to UNAIDS statistics. Part of the result has come through staunch public support by people like Nobel Peace Prize laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu. The campaign is also highlighted in a documentary film about Kharas's work called \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "25062716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25062716", "title": "Thunder Collins", "text": "Thunder Collins\n\nThunder Collins (born September 17, 1979) is a former running back for the Montreal Alouettes after playing 3 seasons at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. He played one game for the Montreal Alouettes of the Canadian Football League in 2003.\n\nIn August, 2009, Collins was convicted of 1st-degree murder. Later, Collins was found guilty of attempted 2nd-degree murder. Although Collins maintains his innocence, he has been sentenced to life in prison. His attorney's motion for a re-trial was denied.\n\n"}
{"id": "1015202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1015202", "title": "Ukrainian Canadians", "text": "Ukrainian Canadians\n\nUkrainian Canadians (; ) are Canadian citizens of Ukrainian descent or Ukrainian-born people who immigrated to Canada. In 2016, there were an estimated 1,359,655 persons of full or partial Ukrainian origin residing in Canada (the majority being Canadian-born citizens), making them Canada's eleventh largest ethnic group and giving Canada the world's third-largest Ukrainian population behind Ukraine itself and Russia. Self-identified Ukrainians are the plurality in several rural areas of Western Canada. According to the 2011 census, of the 1,251,170 who identified as Ukrainian, only 144,260 (or 11.5%) could actually speak either the modern Ukrainian language or the historic Canadian Ukrainian dialect.\n\nMinority opinions among historians of Ukrainians in Canada surround theories that a small number of Ukrainians settled in Canada before 1891. Most controversial is the claim that Ukrainians may have been infantrymen alongside Poles in the Swiss French \"De Meurons\" and \"De Watteville\" regiments who fought for the British on the Niagara Peninsula during the War of 1812 – it has been theorized that Ukrainians were among those soldiers who decided to stay in Upper Canada (southern Ontario). Other Ukrainians supposedly arrived as part of other immigrant groups; it has been claimed that individual Ukrainian families may have settled in southern Manitoba in the mid- to late 1870s alongside block settlements of Mennonites and other Germans from the Russian Empire. \"Galicians\" are noted as being among the miners of the British Columbia gold rushes and figure prominently in some towns in that new province's first census in 1871 (these may have been Poles and Belarusians as well as Ukrainians). Because there is so little definitive documentary evidence of individual Ukrainians among these three groups, they are not generally regarded as among the first Ukrainians in Canada.\n\nDuring the nineteenth century the territory inhabited by Ukrainians in Europe was divided between the Austro-Hungarian and Russian empires. The Austrian crownlands of Galicia and Bukovyna were home to many Ukrainian speakers. Austrian Galicia was one of the poorest and most overpopulated regions in Europe, and had experienced a series of blights and famines. Emigration on a large scale from Galicia to the Balkans (the north-south border region between and ) and even to Brazil was already underway by 1891.\n\nThe first wave of Ukrainian immigration to Canada began with Iwan (\"Ivan\") Pylypow and Wasyl (\"Vasyl\") Eleniak, who arrived in 1891, and brought several families to settle in 1892. Pylypow helped found the Edna-Star Settlement east of Edmonton, the first and largest Ukrainian block settlement. However, it is Dr. Josef Oleskow, along with Cyril Genik, who are considered responsible for the large Ukrainian Canadian population through their promotion of Canada as a destination for immigrants from western (Austrian-ruled) Ukraine in the late 1890s. Ukrainians from Central Ukraine, which was ruled by the Russian monarchy, also came to Canada – but in smaller numbers than those from Galicia and Bukovyna. Approximately 170,000 Ukrainians from the Austro-Hungarian Empire arrived in Canada from September 1891 to August 1914.\n\nClifford Sifton, Canada's Minister of the Interior from 1896 to 1905, also encouraged Ukrainians from Austria-Hungary to immigrate to Canada since he wanted new agricultural immigrants to populate Canada's prairies. After retirement, Sifton defended the new Ukrainian and East European immigrants to Canada – who were not from the United Kingdom, the United States, Scandinavia, Iceland, France or Germany – by stating: \n\nThis Ukrainian immigration to Canada was largely agrarian, and at first Ukrainian Canadians concentrated in distinct block settlements in the parkland belt of the prairie provinces: Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Manitoba. While the Canadian Prairies are often compared to the steppes of Ukraine, the settlers came largely from Galicia and Bukovyna – which are not steppe lands, but are semi-wooded areas in the foothills of the Carpathian Mountains. This is why Ukrainians coming to Canada settled in the wooded aspen parklands – in an arch from Winnipeg and Stuartburn, Manitoba to Edmonton and Leduc, Alberta – rather than the open prairies further south. As well, the semi-feudal nature of land ownership in the Austrian Empire meant that in the \"Old Country\" people had to pay the \"pan\" (landlord) for all their firewood and lumber for building. Upon arriving in Canada, the settlers often demanded wooded land from officials so that they would be able to supply their own needs, even if this meant taking land that was less productive for crops. They also attached deep importance to settling near to family, people from nearby villages or other culturally similar groups, furthering the growth of the block settlements.\n\nFraternal and benevolent organizations established by these settlers include the Ukrainian Labour Farmer Temple Association (ULFTA, affiliated with the Communist Party of Canada), the Ukrainian Catholic Brotherhood (UCB, affiliated with the Ukrainian Catholic Church in Canada), and the Ukrainian Self-Reliance League (USRL, affiliated with the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of Canada). The ULFTA transformed itself into the Association of United Ukrainian Canadians in 1946, the UCB and USRL are part of the Ukrainian Canadian Congress today.\n\nBy 1914, there were also growing communities of Ukrainian immigrants in eastern Canadian cities, such as Toronto, Montreal, Hamilton, and Windsor. Many of them arrived from the provinces of Podillia, Volhynia, Kyiv and Bessarabia in Russian-ruled Ukraine. In the early years of settlement, Ukrainian immigrants faced considerable amounts of discrimination at the hands of non-Slavic, non-Southern European Canadians, an example of which was the internment.\n\nFrom 1914 to 1920, the political climate of the First World War allowed the Canadian Government to classify immigrants with Austro-Hungarian citizenship as \"aliens of enemy nationality\". This classification, authorized by the August 1914 \"War Measures Act\", permitted the government to legally compel thousands of Ukrainians in Canada to register with federal authorities. About 5,000 Ukrainian men, and some women and children, were interned at government camps and work sites. Although many Ukrainians were \"paroled\" into jobs for private companies by 1917, the internment continued until June 20, 1920 – almost a year after the Treaty of Versailles was signed by Canada on June 28, 1919.\n\nThere are some two dozen Ukrainian-specific plaques and memorials in Canada commemorating Canada's first national internment operations, including several statues – on the fairgrounds of Canada's National Ukrainian Festival south of Dauphin, Manitoba, the grounds of the Manitoba Legislative Building in Winnipeg; and at the locations of the former internment camps in Banff National Park, Alberta, Spirit Lake (La Ferme), Quebec, and Kapuskasing, Ontario. Most were placed by the Ukrainian Canadian Civil Liberties Association (UCCLA) and its supporters. On August 24, 2005, Prime Minister Paul Martin recognized the Ukrainian Canadian internment as a \"dark chapter\" in Canadian history, and pledged $2.5 million to fund memorials and educational exhibits although that funding was never provided.\n\nOn May 9, 2008, following the 2005 passage of Inky Mark's Bill C-331, the Government of Canada, under Prime Minister Stephen Harper, established a $10 million fund following several months of negotiation with the Ukrainian Canadian community's representatives, including the UCCLA, Ukrainian Canadian Congress and Ukrainian Canadian Foundation of Taras Shevchenko (also known as the Shevchenko Foundation), establishing the Canadian First World War Internment Recognition Fund (CFWWIRF). The Endowment Council of the CFWWIRF uses the interest earned on that amount to fund projects that commemorate the experience of Ukrainians and other Europeans interned between 1914 and 1920. The funds are held in trust by the Shevchenko Foundation. Amongst the commemorative projects funded by the Endowment Council was the unveiling, simultaneously across Canada, of 115 bilingual plaques on August 24, 2014, recalling the 100th anniversary of the first implementation of the \"War Measures Act\". This was known as Project \"Сто\" ( \"Sto\"; meaning \"one hundred\"), and organized by the UCCLA.\n\nIn 1923, the Canadian government modified the \"Immigration Act\" to allow former subjects of the Austrian Empire to once again enter Canada – and Ukrainian immigration started anew. Ukrainians from western Volhynia – the Polesie and Wołyń Voivodeships (under Polish rule), and southern Bessarabia – also known as the Budjak (under Romanian rule), joined a new wave of emigrants from Polish-governed Galicia and Romanian-governed Bukovyna. Around 70,000 Ukrainians from Poland and Romania arrived in Canada from 1924 to September 1939, although the flow decreased severely after 1930 due to the Great Depression.\n\nRelatively little farmland remained unclaimed – the majority in the Peace River region of northwestern Alberta – and less than half of this group settled as farmers in the Prairie provinces. The majority became workers in the growing industrial centers of southern Ontario and the Montreal region and the Eastern Townships of Quebec; the mines, smelters and forests of northern Ontario; and the small heavy industries of urban western Canada. A few Ukrainian professionals and intellectuals were accepted into Canada at this time; they later became leaders in the Ukrainian Canadian community.\n\nThe second wave was heavily influenced by the struggle for Ukrainian independence during the Russian Civil War, and established two competing fraternal / benevolent organizations in Canada: the United Hetman Organization (UHO) in 1934 – which supported the idea of a Ukrainian \"Cossack kingdom\" led by Pavlo Skoropadskyi; and the rival Ukrainian National Federation (UNF) in 1932 – which supported the idea of an independent Ukrainian republic and politically supported the armed Ukrainian nationalist insurgency in Polish-occupied Western Ukraine. The UHO ceased to exist by 1960, while the UNF continued to expand and became the largest and most influential Ukrainian organization in Canada, spearheading the creation of the Ukrainian Canadian Committee (later Ukrainian Canadian Congress) during World War II.\n\nFrom World War II to 1991, most Ukrainians coming to Canada were political refugees and Displaced Persons who tended to move to cities in southern Ontario, southern Quebec and the Lower Mainland of British Columbia – there are now large Ukrainian communities in Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver. They established a number of new organizations and affiliated newspapers, women's and youth groups, the most prominent of which was the Canadian League for the Liberation of Ukraine (renamed the League of Ukrainian Canadians after the collapse of the USSR in 1991). The League joined the Ukrainian Canadian Committee (later Ukrainian Canadian Congress) in 1959.\n\nRelatively few Ukrainians came to Canada during the Brezhnev and Gorbachev years, as exit visas could take several years to get approved.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the USSR, emigration from Ukraine increased. Rising levels of corruption, the dismantlement of some social services, low-paying employment and loss of jobs in Ukraine, made immigration attractive once again.\n\nHaving been separated from Ukraine, Ukrainian Canadians have developed their own distinctive Ukrainian culture in Canada. To showcase their unique hybrid culture, Ukrainian Canadians have created institutions that showcase Ukrainian Canadian culture such as Edmonton's Cheremosh and \"Shumka\" troupes – among the world's elite Ukrainian dancers; or the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Village – where Ukrainian pioneer buildings are displayed along with extensive cultural exhibits.\n\nUkrainian Canadians have also contributed to Canadian culture as a whole. Actress and comedian Luba Goy, singer Gloria Kaye, and painter William Kurelek, for example, are well known outside the Ukrainian community.\n\nHistorically Ukrainian Canadians were among Canada's poorest and least educated minorities; but as the process of cultural integration has accelerated, this is no longer the case and Ukrainian Canadians are currently near the national economic average.\n\nPerhaps one of the most lasting contributions Ukrainian Canadians have made to the wider culture of Canada is the concept of multiculturalism which was promoted as early as 1964 by Senator Paul Yuzyk. During and after the debates surrounding the Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism Ukrainian leaders, such as linguist Jaroslav Rudnyckyj, came out in force against the notion of English - French biculturalism which they believed denied the contributions other peoples had made to Canada. Partly in response to this, Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau shifted Canada to a policy of official multiculturalism.\n\nThe Western Ukrainian agricultural settlers brought with them a style of folk architecture dominated by buildings made of unprocessed logs, which were much better suited to the wooded parkland belt rather than the \"bald prairie\". The first house built – usually a \"burdei\" – used some sod; but was not exactly a sod hut, more like a dugout. The second house was often a white-washed and plastered log cabin usually with thatched roof, very similar to those seen in Ukraine. Barns, chicken coops, granaries, and so on were all built using the same techniques as the houses. By the 1930s most Ukrainian Canadians adopted the building styles of the North American mainstream including framed homes and barns built from commercial plans and using milled lumber.\n\nEarly churches, built by pioneer farmers rather than trained builders, were basically log cabins with a few added decorations. They aspired to the designs of Ukraine's wooden churches, but were much more humble. Latter churches – such as the \"prairie cathedral\" style of Father Philip Ruh, using a mixture of Byzantine and Western influences – were much more decorative.\n\nIn addition to the official English and French languages, many prairie public schools offer Ukrainian language education for children, including immersion programs. Generally second language students are taught the local Canadian Ukrainian dialect, rather than Standard Ukrainian.\n\nThe Canadian Ukrainian dialect is based on the Ukrainian spoken by the first wave of immigrants from the Austro-Hungarian Empire from 1891 to 1914. Because the Ukrainian language of this era had no words for such things as agricultural machinery other than a plow, words for wildlife or vegetation common to North America and uncommon in Ukraine, words related to the automobile or other self-propelled vehicles on roads, or words for internal combustion engine-powered or electrically-powered tools or home appliances of any kind, extensive borrowings and adaptations from Canadian English were independently made by Ukrainian settlers in the block settlements of the Prairies during their first decades in Canada. The decline of regular communication with relatives in Ukraine, especially the severe restrictions between 1939 and 1989, further isolated the Western Canadian Ukrainian dialect from an evolving Ukrainian language in Soviet Ukraine. Now, immigrants from Ukraine to Western Canada since 1991 speaking Ukrainian find the Canadian Ukrainian dialect old-fashioned and sometimes strange, for modern Ukrainian no longer uses some of the expressions and vocabulary common to the Canadian dialect – or, in the case of the Canadian loan words and adaptations, never did use, because Standard Ukrainian either invented other terms or borrowed and adapted from other languages, such as French, German or Russian.\n\nThere are a few Ukrainian Catholic elementary schools in the Greater Toronto Area including St. Josaphat Catholic Elementary school (Toronto), Josef Cardinal Slipyj Elementary school (Etobicoke) and St. Sofia Catholic Elementary school (Mississauga); as well as Holy Spirit Eastern Rite Elementary School in Hamilton.\n\nMany Ukrainians fled Russia, Poland, and later, the Soviet Union, to find freedom and a better life in Canada. For them Canada became \"an anti-Russia\", where they could realize their political and economic ideas. Most Ukrainian Canadians were anti-Soviet, yet a minor group of Ukrainians has since 1910 supported Canadian socialism and contributed to the formation of the Communist Party of Canada, and formed a significant bloc within that group. They were also active in other Marxist organizations like the Ukrainian Labour Farmer Temple Association (ULFTA). Ukrainians also played a central role in the 1930s formation of the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (CCF) and the 1960s formation of the New Democratic Party. Ukrainians were a notable portion of the Mackenzie–Papineau Battalion of Canadians who volunteered and fought in the Spanish Civil War on the side of the leftist republican government against the nationalist troops of Generalísimo Francisco Franco.\n\nUkrainians in Canada at first supported the Liberal Party federally and provincially, a minority moved towards the 1930s protest parties of Social Credit and the CCF federally and provincially. The strident anti-communism of John Diefenbaker in the 1950s led the more nationalist-minded to support the federal Progressive Conservatives. Today's Ukrainian community tends to vote based on economic class interests and/or regional preferences.\n\nThe nationalist movement, through the Ukrainian National Federation and the Canadian League for the Liberation of Ukraine, was also an important part of the community. After Ukraine became independent Canada was one of the first nations to recognize Ukraine. From 1992 to 1994, Ukrainian Canadians were vital in fundraising to purchase a building in Ottawa to house the Embassy of Ukraine. As well, Canada has recognized the \"Holodomor\" (Ukrainian Famine) as an act of genocide. Canada also sent many observers to Ukraine during the disputed 2004 presidential election (see: Orange Revolution). The Government of Canada as well as its provincial governments – especially the Ukrainian strongholds in Alberta, Manitoba and Saskatchewan – do much to support Ukraine's economic and political development.\n\nThe Ukrainian Canadians had and have much more influence in Canadian society and policy than any other East European group; therefore they have had several prominent figures in top positions. Ray Hnatyshyn was the 24th Governor General of Canada (1990–1995) and the first Governor General of Ukrainian descent. Ukrainians were also elected leaders of Canada's prairie provinces: Gary Filmon was Premier of Manitoba (1988–1999), nearly simultaneously with Hnatyshyn, and Roy Romanow was Premier of Saskatchewan (1991–2001), also partly at the same time as Filmon and Hnatyshyn.\n\nEd Stelmach became Premier of Alberta in 2006 as the third provincial prime minister of Ukrainian descent. He succeeded Ralph Klein (1992–2006), who had cabinets with many Ukrainian ministers. Stelmach himself is the grandson of Ukrainian immigrants and speaks fluent Ukrainian. He left office in October 2011.\n\nMost Ukrainians who came to Canada from Galicia were Ukrainian Catholic and those from Bukovyna were Ukrainian Orthodox. However, people of both churches faced a shortage of priests in Canada. The Ukrainian Catholic clergy came into conflict with the Roman Catholic hierarchy because they were not celibate and wanted a separate governing structure. At the time, the Russian Orthodox Church was the only Orthodox Christian church that operated in North America – because they had arrived first via Alaska, and traditionally Orthodox churches are territorially exclusive. However, Ukrainians in Canada were suspicious of being controlled from Russia, first by the Tsarist government and later by the Soviets. Partially in response to this, the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of Canada was created as a wholly Ukrainian Canadian-controlled alternative. As well the Ukrainian Catholic clergy were eventually given a separate structure from the Roman Church.\n\nCanada is home to some very vibrant Ukrainian dance groups. Some examples of Ukrainian dance ensembles in Canada are the Ukrainian \"Shumka\" Dancers and the Cheremosh Ukrainian Dance Company in Edmonton, the \"Rusalka\" Ukrainian Dance Ensemble and \"Rozmai\" Ukrainian Dance Company in Winnipeg, the Svitanok Ukrainian Dance Ensemble in Ottawa, and hundreds of other groups.\n\nThe Ukrainian Canadian Foundation of Taras Shevchenko provides some financial support for Ukrainian Canadian performing, literary and visual arts.\n\nUkrainians in general are noted for their elaborately decorated Easter Eggs or \"pysanky\", and that is also true in Canada. The world's largest pysanka is in Vegreville, Alberta.\n\nUkrainian Canadian churches are also famous for their onion domes, which have elaborately painted murals on their interior, and for their iconostasis, or icon walls.\n\nUkrainian Canadian musicians and groups include Randy Bachman, the Canadian Bandurist Capella, Ron Cahute, Rick Danko, Victor Mishalow, Chantal Kreviazuk, Gordie Johnson, and \"Canadian Idol\" season 2 runner-up Theresa Sokyrka. The Edmonton-based group the Kubasonics focuses on a folk fusion of traditional Ukrainian music with modern touches.\n\nCultural food is an important part of Ukrainian culture. Special foods used at Easter as well as Christmas are not made at any other time of the year. In fact on Christmas Eve (January 6 in the Gregorian calendar), a special twelve-dish meatless meal is served. The best-known foods are \"borshch\" (a vegetable soup, usually with beets), \"holobtsi\" (cabbage rolls), \"pyrohy\" or \"varenyky\" (dumplings often called \"perogies\"), and \"kovbasa\" (garlic sausage).\n\nSeveral items of Ukrainian food and culture have been enshrined with roadside attractions throughout the Prairie provinces. These are celebrated in the polka \"Giants of the Prairies\" by the Kubasonics. For example, the world's largest perogy is in Glendon, Alberta, and the world's biggest \"kovbasa\" is in Mundare, Alberta.\n\nThere are a number of Ukrainian Canadian institutions, such as:\n\nUkrainians by main cities\n\nThe provinces with the largest Ukrainian populations (single and multiple origins, 2006) are Ontario, 336,355; Alberta, 332,180; British Columbia, 197,265; Manitoba, 167,175; Saskatchewan 129,265; and Quebec, 31,955. In terms of proportion of the total population, the most Ukrainian provinces and territories are Manitoba (15%), Saskatchewan (13%), Alberta (10%), Yukon (5%), British Columbia (5%), and Ontario (3%).\n\nThe metropolitan regions with the largest Ukrainian populations (single and multiple origins, 2006) are Edmonton, 144,620; Toronto, 122,510; Winnipeg, 110,335; Vancouver, 81,725; Calgary, 76,240; Saskatoon, 38,825; Hamilton, 27,080; Montreal, 26,150; Regina, 25,725; Ottawa-Gatineau, 21,520; St. Catharines-Niagara, 20,990; Thunder Bay, 17,620; Victoria, 15,020; Kelowna, 13,425; Oshawa, 12,555; London, 10,765; and Kitchener 10,425.\n\nThe Census Divisions with the largest percentage of Ukrainians are Manitoba #12 (25%), Alberta #10 (20%), Alberta #12 (19%), Manitoba #11 (15%), Manitoba #7 (13%), Manitoba #10 (12%), Manitoba #9 (12%), Manitoba #2 (10%).\n\nIt is impossible to know which are proportionately the most Ukrainian municipalities in Canada since Statistics Canada does not release such information for communities with less than 5,000 people, and Ukrainians are the most concentrated in the smallest communities in the rural West. That being said, the following are communities (total greater than 5,000) with a high percentage of Ukrainians: Vegreville, Alberta (41%), St. Paul, Alberta (town) (31%), St. Paul County, Alberta (26%).\n\n"}
{"id": "42378414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42378414", "title": "Ural Swedes", "text": "Ural Swedes\n\nThe Ural Swedes, (, ) were Yaik Cossacks (later Orenburg Cossacks) with Swedish ancestry, related to the large groups of Swedish prisoners of the Great Northern War (1700–1721).\n\nDuring the Great Northern War, at least 120,000 men surrendered and were held in Russian POW camps until the war ended. After the defeats at Poltava and Perevolochna there were about 20,000 to 25,000 Swedes that capitulated Individual surrenders were uncommon, usually a large unit surrendered all its men. Most of them were put to work in Ukraine, Moscow and Saint Petersburg. Another large group was moved into Siberia and Ural, where they start to work in mining under command of Vasily Tatishchev.\n\nAbout 8,000 Swedes joined the Russian Army to survive, so Peter I put them in Astrakhan Garrison and on Ural Cossack Line to protect Russian land against Kazakhs and Kirgizian riders, where they joined the military expeditions of Bekovich-Cherkassky to Khiva, Swedes quickly turned into Eastern Orthodox Christians and got under linguistic assimilation with the local Russians. Later part of Ural Cossacks were used to support Orenburg Cossacks Line, in Sakmara. Another group was moved to Vozdvizhenskaya fortress in 1745 and thanks to isolation they kept some language and cultural identification until the beginning of the 20th century.\n"}
{"id": "2626714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2626714", "title": "Vienna School of Dermatology", "text": "Vienna School of Dermatology\n\nThe Vienna School of Dermatology was a group of dermatologists affiliated to the University of Vienna who became an important reference in the development of modern dermatology in the second half of the 19th century. It was founded by Ferdinand Ritter von Hebra (1816-1888) with the collaboration of his mentor, Carl Freiherr von Rokitansky (1804-1878) and Carl Wedl (1815-1891), a pathologist with interest in skin diseases. Their pupils, Isidor Neumann (1832-1906), Salomon Stricker (1834-1898), Heinrich Auspitz (1834-1885), Moritz Kaposi (1837-1902), all of the same generation; and Paul Gerson Unna (1850-1929) and Salomon Ehrmann (1854-1926), continued the tradition. Unna later became the father of German dermatopathology.\n\nVon Hebra first organized the dermatological service in the Vienna General Hospital. He was inspired by the movement towards a scientific dermatology already established in England by Robert Willan (1757-1812) and Thomas Bateman (1778-1821); and in France by Jean-Louis-Marc Alibert (1768-1837), Laurent-Théodore Biett (1781-1840), Pierre Louis Alphée Cazenave (1795-1877) and Pierre François Olive Rayer (1793-1867). The Vienna School adopted the approach of pathology (as influenced by the great Carl von Rokitansky, a professor of von Hebra) and the doctrine of local causative agents. For example, 2,000 of the first 2,500 dermatological patients treated by von Hebra had scabies.\n\nThe members of the Vienna School discovered and described many new diseases and signs, such as:\n\n"}
{"id": "98056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=98056", "title": "Willem Drees", "text": "Willem Drees\n\nWillem Drees Sr. (; 5 July 1886 – 14 May 1988) was a Dutch statesman who served as Prime Minister of the Netherlands from 7 August 1948 to 22 December 1958. He was the first Leader of the Labour Party (PvdA), assuming the position from 9 February 1946 until the end of his premiership.\n\nBorn in Amsterdam, Drees, a civil servant and accountant by occupation, worked as a bank teller from 1903 until 1906 and as a stenographer for the States General of the Netherlands from 1907 until 1945. He served as a member of the House of Representatives from 9 May 1933 to 24 June 1945 while retaining his previous employment. In October 1940 he was taken hostage in Buchenwald concentration camp for resisting orders given by German occupiers but was freed one year later; his parliamentary mandate had not been revoked. He served as the parliamentary leader of the Social Democratic Workers' Party in the House of Representatives from 19 August 1939 until 24 June 1945 when he became Minister of Social Affairs and Deputy Prime Minister serving from 24 June 1945 until 7 August 1948 in the Schermerhorn–Drees cabinet and First Beel cabinet. He served again a short periode as a member of the House of Representatives, after the general election of 1946 from 4 June 1946 until 4 July 1946. After the general election of 1948, Drees became Prime Minister of the Netherlands, leading the First, Second, Third and Fourth Drees cabinets. He also served as Acting Minister of Colonial Affairs from 15 March 1951 until 31 March 1951 and as Acting Minister of Finance from 1 July 1952 until 2 September 1952, following the resignations of Johannes Henricus van Maarseveen and Piet Lieftinck respectively. He again had two short stints as a member of the House of Representatives after the general election of 1952 and 1952, serving from 15 July 1952 until 2 September 1952 and from 3 July 1956 until 3 October 1956.\n\nDrees most notably led the country through the North Sea flood of 1953 and was the second oldest person who served as Prime Minister of the Netherlands after Johan Rudolph Thorbecke, who died in office at the age of seventy-four. On 22 December 1958 he was granted the honorary title of Minister of State. He remained a very active observer of Dutch politics, publishing a substantial number of books and articles until the age of ninety-seven. Willem Drees was the longest-lived Dutch Prime Minister, dying at the age of , on 14 May 1988 in The Hague. He is praised by many as the most important Dutch politician after World War II for his important contributions and social reforms laws and seen as the father of the modern welfare state in the Netherlands. Drees was chosen as the best Prime Minister of the Netherlands after World War II after an opinion polling conducted by the VPRO in 2006.\n\nWillem Drees was born in Amsterdam on 5 July 1886. After completing his secondary education in 1903 at the Hogeschool van Amsterdam, he worked until 1906 for the Twentsche Bank in Amsterdam. This was followed by a period as a stenographer with the Municipal Council of Amsterdam and then between 1907 and 1919 with the States General of the Netherlands.\n\nIn 1904 he joined the Social Democratic Workers' Party, which later was absorbed into the Labour Party in 1946. From 1910 to 1931 he was chairman of The Hague branch of the Social Democratic Workers' Party and between 1913 and 1941 a member of the municipal council of The Hague. During that period he was alderman for social affairs from 1919 to 1931 and for finance and public works through to 1933.\n\nFor 22 years between 1919 and 1941 Drees also held a seat on the Provincial Council of South Holland and for 19 years between 1927 and 1946 one on the Social Democratic Workers' Party executive. Between 1933 and 1940 he represented the Social Democratic Workers' Party in the House of Representatives and from 1939 as leader in the House of Representatives\n\nDuring the German occupation he was taken hostage in Buchenwald concentration camp in October 1940. Freed one year later, he played a prominent role, as vice chairman and acting chairman of the illegal Executive Committee of the SDAP, and as a prominent participant in secret interparty consultations. In 1944 he became chairman of the \"Contact Commissie van de Illegaliteit\" and a member of the College van Vertrouwensmannen which the government in exile charged with the preparation of steps to be taken at the time of liberation.\n\nThereafter, from 24 June 1945 to 7 August 1948 Drees was Minister of Social Affairs and Deputy Prime Minister in the Cabinet Schermerhorn/Drees.\n\nFrom 7 August 1948 to 22 December 1958 he was Prime Minister of the Netherlands in four successive cabinets: First Drees cabinet, Second Drees cabinet, Third Drees cabinet and Fourth Drees cabinet.\n\nDrees's period in office saw at least four major political developments: the traumas of decolonisation, economic reconstruction, the establishment of the Dutch welfare state, and international integration and co-operation, including the formation of Benelux, the OEEC, NATO, the ECSC, and the EEC. When his Cabinet broke up in December 1958, he was appointed to the honorary position of Minister of State, the Labour Party appointed him a member of its Executive Council for life in 1959. Due to impaired hearing he stopped attending its meetings in 1966. He strongly disagreed with New Left tendencies in the membership and strategies of the Labour Party. He eventually gave up membership of a party he had served for close to 67 years.\n\nDrees was an Esperantist and addressed the 1954 World Congress of Esperanto, which was held in Haarlem.\n\nA wide range of social reforms were carried out during's Drees's tenure as Prime Minister. The Occupational Pensions Funds Act of March 1949 made membership of industry-wide pension funds compulsory, while the General Old Age Pensions Act of May 1956 introduced universal flat-rate old age pensions for all residents as a right and with no retirement condition at the age of 65. The Retired Persons' Family Allowances Act of November 1950 established a special allowance for pensioned public servants with children, a law of November 1950 extended compulsory health insurance to cover other groups, such as old-age and invalidity pensioners, and a law of December 1956 introduced health insurance with special low contributions for old-aged pensioners below a certain income ceiling. A law of August 1950 established equal rights for illegitimate children, and introduced an allowance for disabled children between the ages of 16 and 20. The Temporary Family Allowances Act for the Self-employed of June 1951 entitled self-employed persons with low incomes to family allowance for the first and second child, and a law of February 1952 introduced an allowance for studying and for disabled children until the age of 27. In 1950, works councils were established, and in 1957 the dismissal of female civil servants upon marriage was abolished.\n\nIn the field of housing, the Implementation for Rent Act (1950) fixed rents and rent increases, while the Regional and Town Planning Act (1950) regulated the planning of house building. In addition, the Reconstruction Act of 1950 established housebuilding programmes, and legislation was passed on house building standards (1951), the uniformity of buildings (1954), and uniform building standards (1956). In education, measures were carried out such as increased expenditure on the system, a reduction in registration fees at State universities and at the institute of technology, and the granting (in January 1956) of a special benefit to primary school teachers and to certain categories of vocational teachers, \"particularly those who risk being unemployed and who cannot lay claim to a retaining fee.\" Other initiatives included secondary schools for girls and special primary education in 1949, teacher training colleges in 1952, the extension of compulsory education to 8 years in 1950, and the Nursery Education Act of 1955, which introduced the option of kindergarten for children from the age of four upwards, while also establishing regulations for nursery-school teachers. A department of social welfare was also established (1952), while laws were passed on unemployment benefits (1952) and a widows' and orphans' pension (1956).\n\nOn 28 July 1910, Drees married Catharina Hent (6 May 1888 – 30 January 1974) and had two sons and two daughters,\nBoth his sons Jan Drees and Willem Drees Jr. were active members of the Labour Party, but left the party around 1970 to join the Democratic Socialists '70. The cause was a row with younger party members who wanted to plot a more radical left-wing course for the party. Drees himself left the Labour Party in 1971 leaving them without their icon, but he never joined the Democratic Socialists '70.\n\nDrees was a Teetotaler. Willem Drees died on 14 May 1988 in The Hague, two months before his 102nd birthday. From 22 August 1986, when former Turkish President Celâl Bayar died until his own death, Drees was the world's oldest living former head of state.\n\nIn 2004 he ended in third place in the election of The Greatest Dutchman.\n\nFour Volume Biography \"Willem Drees 1886-1988\", in Dutch:\n\n"}
{"id": "33566090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33566090", "title": "Winye language", "text": "Winye language\n\nWinyé, or Kolsi, is a Gur language of Burkina Faso. Speakers are largely monolingual.\n"}
{"id": "31587352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31587352", "title": "Women in East Timor", "text": "Women in East Timor\n\nAmong the traditional practices challenging the status of women in East Timor or women in Timor-Leste include not being able to inherit or own property and the cultural notion that women normally belongs to the home. \n\nApart from these customary concepts, East Timorese women also confront domestic violence. Rape cases and sexual slavery were allegedly committed by East Timorese pro-integration militias during the September 1999 crisis in East Timor. One of the organizations that promote empowerment and foster gender equality for the women of East Timor is the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM). In 2010, a law was passed making domestic violence a public crime, but the practice remained prevalent nevertheless. In a 2009–10 Demographic and Health Survey, 36% of married women reported having experienced physical, psychological or sexual violence from their husband or partner, but only 24% reported discussing this with anyone and only 4% reported seeking help from the police. According to the same survey, 71% of men believe that the wife's neglecting children justifies the husband's beating her, while 72% of women believe that a husband is justified in beating his wife if she goes out without informing him. According to activists in non-governmental organizations such as Asisténsia Legál ba Feto no Labarik, domestic violence is severaly under-reported and the punishments are not deterrent: in one case, a man who \"stabbed his wife in the back of the head and struck her repeatedly with a block of wood, after an argument about feeding their children\" only received a suspended jail sentence of seven months.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14075307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14075307", "title": "Yoy people", "text": "Yoy people\n\nThe Yoy people are an ethnic group in Southeast Asia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51905523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51905523", "title": "Ziad Durrani", "text": "Ziad Durrani\n\nZiad Akram Durrani (; 13 February 1982 – 21 June 2012) was a Pakistani politician who had been a member of the Provincial Assembly of North-West Frontier Province from February 2008 to June 2012 and member of the National Assembly of Pakistan from April 2007 to October 2007.\n\nHe was born on 13 February 1982 to Akram Khan Durrani.<ref name=\"dawn/22june2012\"></ref>\n\nHe graduated from Islamia College Peshawar<ref name=\"thenews/22june2012\"></ref> and had a degree of Bachelor of Arts. He received a degree of Bachelor of Laws from the Law College, University of Peshawar.\n\nHe was elected to the National Assembly of Pakistan as a candidate of Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal (MMA) from Constituency NA-26 (Bannu) in the by-polls held in March 2007.\n\nHe was elected to the Provincial Assembly of North-West Frontier Province as a candidate of MMA from Constituency PF-70 (Bannu) in Pakistani general election, 2008.<ref name=\"nation/22june2012\"></ref>\n\nHe died on 21 June 2012 in Peshawar due to cardiac arrest.\n"}
