{"id": "56452969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56452969", "title": "2018 NHRA Mello Yello Drag Racing Series", "text": "2018 NHRA Mello Yello Drag Racing Series\n\nThe 2018 NHRA Mello Yello Drag Racing Season was announced on June 6, 2017.\n\nIt is the 63rd season of the National Hot Rod Association's top drag racing competition. There will be 24 Top Fuel, Funny Car, and Pro Stock events, and 16 Pro Stock Motorcycle events.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Finals televised on tape delay. Ennis, TX race broadcast schedule and channel changed from FS2 to FS1 because of 2018 National League Division Series presented by Doosan Game 3 start times.\n\n\"4 Lanes\": The Four-Wide Nationals in both Las Vegas and Charlotte in the spring will compete with cars on four lanes.\n\n\"1.5\": The U. S. Nationals and Auto Club Finals will have their race points increased by 50% . Drivers who qualify but are eliminated in the first round receive 30 points, and each round win is worth 30 points. The top four receive 10, 9, 8, and 7 points, respectively, for qualifying positions, with the 5-6 drivers receiving 6 points, 7-8 drivers receiving 5 points, 9-12 receiving 4 points, and 13-16 receiving 3 points. Also, the top four, not three, drivers after each session receive points for fastest times in each round (4-3-2-1).\n\nOn January 16, 2018, Old Bridge Township Raceway Park in Englishtown, New Jersey ceased all drag racing operations at the facility due to ongoing safety concerns as well as rising maintenance costs. Two weeks later, the NHRA Summernationals, already scheduled to take place there in June, was announced to be moved to Virginia Motorsports Park in Petersburg, Virginia. The last NHRA professional event took place at VMP in 2009.\n\nBecause of a series of Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series date changes, the NHRA changed the dates of numerous rounds to avoid conflicts. The race in Joliet was moved to early June, as the normal date had been reassigned to the NASCAR meeting at the nearby Chicagoland Speedway, and the Countdown dates in Reading and Charlotte were swapped since the Charlotte date would have been too close to the NASCAR road course playoff race.\n\n\"2\": Due to inclement weather throughout the day, Final Elimination Rounds at the Menards NHRA Heartland Nationals in Topeka, Kansas did not start until around 7 PM CDT on May 20, 2018. After fog began settling in during the second round of pro racing, it was postponed until the following day at 10 AM CDT when the semifinal and final rounds were held.\n\n"}
{"id": "13934314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13934314", "title": "Aliw Award", "text": "Aliw Award\n\nAliw Awards by the Aliw Awards Foundation, Inc. was established by the renowned Philippine journalist Alice H. Reyes, to recognize achievements in the live entertainment industry in the Philippines. Founded in 1976 in Manila, it is the pioneer in giving awards for excellence in theatre, opera, dance, live vocal and instrumental shows.\n\nThe first awards show was held in 1977 with singer Pilita Corrales winning the Entertainer of the Year Award followed by Rico Puno and Celeste Legaspi in 1978 and 1979, respectively. In 2007, the Award was given to Regine Velasquez, who also received it in 2009. In the 2011 Aliw Awards, 19-year-old International Singing Sensation Charice was the recipient, making her the youngest artist to be conferred such recognition.\n\nSarah Geronimo is one of the female artist in the history to win all of the major awards from \"Entertainer of The Year\" in 2010, \"Best Female in Major Concert\" in 2010 and in 2012, \"Best Collaboration for a Major Concert\n\" for What Love Is with Martin Nievera in 2011 and \"Most Promising Female Entertainer\" in 2003. The other female artist to win all major awards is Regine Velasquez.\n\n\"Aliw\" is the root word meaning \"to entertain\" in Tagalog.\n"}
{"id": "31180547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31180547", "title": "Apung 1", "text": "Apung 1\n\nPLTD \"Apung 1\" is an electric generator ship in Banda Aceh, Sumatra, Indonesia that has become a tourist attraction. The 2,600 ton vessel had been in the sea and was flung 2 to 3 kilometres inland by the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami. It was owned by PLN, the local power generating company, and crashed upon two homes when it landed, killing those inside. Visitors are able to enter the ship, and can explore the interior in its entirety.\n\nThis boat was given to Aceh during the Aceh conflict between the government and GAM (Gerakan Aceh Merdeka). In 2012–2013 the boat was renovated and now has 2 towers, a monument, a flying walk & jogging area and a fountain.\n"}
{"id": "20553615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20553615", "title": "Ballechin House", "text": "Ballechin House\n\nBallechin House was a Georgian estate home near Grandtully, Perthshire, Scotland. It was built in 1806, on the site of an old manor house which had been owned by the Steuart family since the 15th century.\n\nIn 1834 Major Robert Steuart (1806-1876) inherited the house and rented it to tenants whilst he served in the Indian Army. During his time in India, Steuart came to believe in reincarnation and transmigration. He returned to the house in 1850 and lived there with numerous dogs: he is reported to have stated that he would return in the form of a dog. Major Steuart was unmarried, but local gossip linked his name with that of his much younger housekeeper who died there in 1873. After the Major's death, the house was inherited by his nephew John Skinner who assumed the name Steuart. Fearing that his uncle would reincarnate in the form of one of his dogs, the new owner reportedly shot them all. From this story came the legend that Robert Steuart was forced to haunt the house as a disembodied spirit. The first reported haunting at the house took place in 1876; the witness was a maid in the house.\n\nIn 1897 an investigation of the house was organized by John Crichton-Stuart, 3rd Marquess of Bute with the assistance of paranormal researchers from the Society for Psychical Research. Ballechin House was known as \"The Most Haunted House in Scotland\", with several similarities to the Borley Rectory haunting, including the alleged apparition of a ghostly nun. The team of investigators from the Society for Psychical Research included Colonel Lemesurier Taylor and the notorious Ada Goodrich Freer. In 1899, \"The Alleged Haunting of B---- House\" by Crichton-Stuart and Freer was published, and serialised in \"The Times\", containing a journal of the phenomena kept by Freer.\n\nJ. Callender Ross who had stayed at the house stated in \"The Times\" that there was no evidence for any supernatural disturbances and considered the whole investigation to be fraudulent. The SPR later removed material from a volume of their Proceedings on the investigation and denounced Freer. Psychical researcher Frederic W. H. Myers who was originally supportive of the investigation wrote in a letter to \"The Times\" he \"greatly doubt[ed] whether there was anything supernormal\" at the house.\n\nTrevor H. Hall revealed that Freer was an unreliable investigator, had deceived the SPR, plagiarised material and lied about her own life.\n\nBallechin House was uninhabited by 1932, and most of the house was demolished in 1963, after a fire, leaving only the former servants quarters and outbuildings. Also lost was art work and furniture which had been collected by generations of the Steuart family, including many pieces from the far east, reflecting successive lairds' involvement in the British East India Company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "157446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=157446", "title": "Battle of Thermopylae", "text": "Battle of Thermopylae\n\nThe Battle of Thermopylae ( ; Greek: , \"Máchē tōn Thermopylōn\") was fought between an alliance of Greek city-states, led by King Leonidas of Sparta, and the Persian Empire of Xerxes I over the course of three days, during the second Persian invasion of Greece. It took place simultaneously with the naval battle at Artemisium, in August or September 480 BC, at the narrow coastal pass of Thermopylae (\"The Hot Gates\"). The Persian invasion was a delayed response to the defeat of the first Persian invasion of Greece, which had been ended by the Athenian victory at the Battle of Marathon in 490 BC. By 480 BC Xerxes had amassed a huge army and navy, and set out to conquer all of Greece. The Athenian politician and general Themistocles had proposed that the allied Greeks block the advance of the Persian army at the pass of Thermopylae, and simultaneously block the Persian navy at the Straits of Artemisium.\n\nA Greek force of approximately 7,000 men marched north to block the pass in the middle of 480 BC. The Persian army, alleged by the ancient sources to have numbered over one million, but today considered to have been much smaller (various figures are given by scholars, ranging between about 100,000 and 150,000), arrived at the pass in late August or early September. The vastly outnumbered Greeks held off the Persians for seven days (including three of battle) before the rear-guard was annihilated in one of history's most famous last stands. During two full days of battle, the small force led by Leonidas blocked the only road by which the massive Persian army could pass. After the second day, a local resident named Ephialtes betrayed the Greeks by revealing a small path that led behind the Greek lines. Leonidas, aware that his force was being outflanked, dismissed the bulk of the Greek army and remained to guard their retreat with 300 Spartans and 700 Thespians, fighting to the death. Others also reportedly remained, including up to 900 helots and 400 Thebans; these Thebans mostly reportedly surrendered.\n\nThemistocles was in command of the Greek Navy at Artemisium when he received news that the Persians had taken the pass at Thermopylae. Since the Greek strategy required both Thermopylae and Artemisium to be held, given their losses, it was decided to withdraw to Salamis. The Persians overran Boeotia and then captured the evacuated Athens. The Greek fleet—seeking a decisive victory over the Persian armada—attacked and defeated the invaders at the Battle of Salamis in late 480 BC. Wary of being trapped in Europe, Xerxes withdrew with much of his army to Asia (losing most to starvation and disease), leaving Mardonius to attempt to complete the conquest of Greece. However, the following year saw a Greek army decisively defeat the Persians at the Battle of Plataea, thereby ending the Persian invasion.\n\nBoth ancient and modern writers have used the Battle of Thermopylae as an example of the power of a patriotic army defending its native soil. The performance of the defenders is also used as an example of the advantages of training, equipment, and good use of terrain as force multipliers and has become a symbol of courage against overwhelming odds.\n\nThe primary source for the Greco-Persian Wars is the Greek historian Herodotus. The Sicilian historian Diodorus Siculus, writing in the 1st century BC in his \"Bibliotheca historica\", also provides an account of the Greco-Persian wars, partially derived from the earlier Greek historian Ephorus. This account is fairly consistent with Herodotus'. The Greco-Persian wars are also described in less detail by a number of other ancient historians including Plutarch, Ctesias of Cnidus, and are referred to by other authors, as in Aeschylus in \"The Persians\".\n\nArchaeological evidence, such as the Serpent Column (now in the Hippodrome of Constantinople), also supports some of Herodotus' specific claims. George B. Grundy was the first modern historian to do a thorough topographical survey of the narrow pass at Thermopylae, and to the extent that modern accounts of the battle differ from Herodotus' they usually follow Grundy's. For example, the military strategist Sir Basil Henry Liddell Hart defers to Grundy. Grundy also explored Plataea and wrote a treatise on that battle.\n\nOn the Battle of Thermopylae itself, two principal sources, Herodotus' and Simonides' accounts, survive. In fact, Herodotus' account of the battle, in Book VII of his \"Histories\", is such an important source that Paul Cartledge wrote: \"we either write a history of Thermopylae with [Herodotus], or not at all\". Also surviving is an epitome of the account of Ctesias, by the eighth-century Byzantine Photias, though this is \"almost worse than useless\", missing key events in the battle such as the betrayal of Ephialtes, and the account of Diodorus Siculus in his \"Universal History\". Diodorus' account seems to have been based on that of Ephorus and contains one significant deviation from Herodotus' account: a supposed night attack against the Persian camp, of which modern scholars have tended to be sceptical.\n\nThe Greek city-states of Athens and Eretria had encouraged the unsuccessful Ionian Revolt against the Persian Empire of Darius I in 499–494 BC. The Persian Empire was still relatively young and prone to revolts amongst its subject peoples. Darius, moreover, was a\nusurper and had spent considerable time extinguishing revolts against his rule.\n\nThe Ionian revolt threatened the integrity of his empire, and Darius thus vowed to punish those involved, especially the Athenians, \"since he was sure that [the Ionians] would not go unpunished for their rebellion\". Darius also saw the opportunity to expand his empire into the fractious world of Ancient Greece. A preliminary expedition under Mardonius in 492 BC, to secure the land approaches to Greece, re-conquered Thrace and forced Macedon to become a client kingdom of Persia's.\n\nDarius sent emissaries to all the Greek city-states in 491 BC asking for a gift of \"earth and water\" as tokens of their submission to him. Having had a demonstration of his power the previous year, the majority of Greek cities duly obliged. In Athens, however, the ambassadors were put on trial and then executed by throwing them in a pit; in Sparta, they were simply thrown down a well. This meant that Sparta was also effectively at war with Persia.\n\nDarius thus put together an amphibious task force under Datis and Artaphernes in 490 BC, which attacked Naxos, before receiving the submission of the other Cycladic Islands. The task force then moved on Eretria, which it besieged and destroyed. Finally, it moved to attack Athens, landing at the bay of Marathon, where it was met by a heavily outnumbered Athenian army. At the ensuing Battle of Marathon, the Athenians won a remarkable victory, which resulted in the withdrawal of the Persian army to Asia.\n\nDarius, therefore, began raising a huge new army with which he meant to completely subjugate Greece; however, in 486 BC, his Egyptian subjects revolted, indefinitely postponing any Greek expedition. Darius then died whilst preparing to march on Egypt, and the throne of Persia passed to his son Xerxes I. Xerxes crushed the Egyptian revolt and very quickly restarted the preparations for the invasion of Greece. Since this was to be a full-scale invasion, it required long-term planning, stockpiling, and conscription. Xerxes decided that the Hellespont would be bridged to allow his army to cross to Europe, and that a canal should be dug across the isthmus of Mount Athos (rounding which headland, a Persian fleet had been destroyed in 492 BC). These were both feats of exceptional ambition, which would have been beyond any other contemporary state. By early 480 BC, the preparations were complete, and the army which Xerxes had mustered at Sardis marched towards Europe, crossing the Hellespont on two pontoon bridges. According to Herodotus, Xerxes' army was so large that, upon arriving at the banks of the Echeidorus River, his soldiers proceeded to drink it dry. In the face of such imposing numbers, many Greek cities capitulated to the Persian demand for a tribute of earth and water.\n\nThe Athenians had also been preparing for war with the Persians since the mid-480s BC, and in 482 BC the decision was taken, under the guidance of the Athenian politician Themistocles, to build a massive fleet of triremes that would be essential for the Greeks to fight the Persians. However, the Athenians lacked the manpower to fight on both land and sea; therefore, combating the Persians would require an alliance of Greek city-states. In 481 BC, Xerxes sent ambassadors around Greece requesting \"earth and water\" but very deliberately omitting Athens and Sparta. Support thus began to coalesce around these two leading states. A congress of city-states met at Corinth in late autumn of 481 BC, and a confederate alliance of Greek city-states was formed. It had the power to send envoys to request assistance and dispatch troops from the member states to defensive points, after joint consultation. This was remarkable for the disjointed Greek world, especially since many of the city-states in attendance were still technically at war with each other.\n\nThe \"congress\" met again in the spring of 480 BC. A Thessalian delegation suggested that the Greeks could muster in the narrow Vale of Tempe, on the borders of Thessaly, and thereby block Xerxes' advance. A force of 10,000 hoplites was dispatched to the Vale of Tempe, through which they believed the Persian army would have to pass. However, once there, being warned by Alexander I of Macedon that the vale could be bypassed through Sarantoporo Pass and that Xerxes' army was overwhelming, the Greeks retreated. Shortly afterwards, they received the news that Xerxes had crossed the Hellespont.\n\nThemistocles, therefore, suggested a second strategy to the Greeks: the route to southern Greece (Boeotia, Attica, and the Peloponnesus) would require Xerxes' army to travel through the very narrow pass of Thermopylae, which could easily be blocked by the Greek hoplites, despite the overwhelming numbers of Persians. Furthermore, to prevent the Persians from bypassing Thermopylae by sea, the Athenian and allied navies could block the straits of Artemisium. Congress adopted this dual-pronged strategy. However, the Peloponnesian cities made fall-back plans to defend the Isthmus of Corinth, should it come to that, whilst the women and children of Athens had been evacuated \"en masse\" to the Peloponnesian city of Troezen.\n\nThe Persian army seems to have made slow progress through Thrace and Macedon. News of the imminent Persian approach eventually reached Greece in August thanks to a Greek spy. At this time of year the Spartans, \"de facto\" military leaders of the alliance, were celebrating the festival of Carneia. During the Carneia, military activity was forbidden by Spartan law; the Spartans had arrived too late at the Battle of Marathon because of this requirement. It was also the time of the Olympic Games, and therefore the Olympic truce, and thus it would have been doubly sacrilegious for the whole Spartan army to march to war. On this occasion, the ephors decided the urgency was sufficiently great to justify an advance expedition to block the pass, under one of its kings, Leonidas I. Leonidas took with him the 300 men of the royal bodyguard, the \"Hippeis\". This expedition was to try to gather as many other Greek soldiers along the way as possible and to await the arrival of the main Spartan army.\n\nThe legend of Thermopylae, as told by Herodotus, has it that the Spartans had consulted the Oracle at Delphi earlier in the year. The Oracle is said to have made the following prophecy:\n\"O ye men who dwell in the streets of broad Lacedaemon!\" \n\"Honor the festival of the Carneia!! Otherwise,\" \n\"Either your glorious town shall be sacked by the children of Perseus,\" \n\"Or, in exchange, must all through the whole Laconian country\" \n\"Mourn for the loss of a king, descendant of great Heracles\".Herodotus tells us that Leonidas, in line with the prophecy, was convinced he was going to certain death since his forces were not adequate for a victory, and so he selected only Spartans with living sons.\n\nThe Spartan force was reinforced \"en route\" to Thermopylae by contingents from various cities and numbered more than 7,000 by the time it arrived at the pass. Leonidas chose to camp at, and defend, the \"middle gate\", the narrowest part of the pass of Thermopylae, where the Phocians had built a defensive wall some time before. News also reached Leonidas, from the nearby city of Trachis, that there was a mountain track that could be used to outflank the pass of Thermopylae. Leonidas stationed 1,000 Phocians on the heights to prevent such a manoeuvre.\n\nFinally, in mid-August, the Persian army was sighted across the Malian Gulf approaching Thermopylae. With the Persian army's arrival at Thermopylae the Greeks held a council of war. Some Peloponnesians suggested withdrawal to the Isthmus of Corinth and blocking the passage to Peloponnesus. The Phocians and Locrians, whose states were located nearby, became indignant and advised defending Thermopylae and sending for more help. Leonidas calmed the panic and agreed to defend Thermopylae. According to Plutarch, when one of the soldiers complained that, \"Because of the arrows of the barbarians it is impossible to see the sun\", Leonidas replied, \"Won't it be nice, then, if we shall have shade in which to fight them?\" Herodotus reports a similar comment, but attributes it to Dienekes.\n\nXerxes sent a Persian emissary to negotiate with Leonidas. The Greeks were offered their freedom, the title \"Friends of the Persian People\", and the opportunity to re-settle on land better than that they possessed. When Leonidas refused these terms, the ambassador carried a written message by Xerxes, asking him to \"Hand over your arms\". Leonidas' famous response to the Persians was \"Molṑn labé\" ( - literally, \"having come, take [them]\", but usually translated as \"come and take them\"). With the Persian embassy returning empty-handed, battle became inevitable. Xerxes delayed for four days, waiting for the Greeks to disperse, before sending troops to attack them.\n\nThe number of troops which Xerxes mustered for the second invasion of Greece has been the subject of endless dispute, most notably between ancient sources, which report very large numbers, and modern scholars, who surmise much smaller figures. Herodotus claimed that there were, in total, 2.6 million military personnel, accompanied by an equivalent number of support personnel. The poet Simonides, who was a near-contemporary, talks of four million; Ctesias gave 800,000 as the total number of the army that was assembled by Xerxes.\n\nModern scholars tend to reject the figures given by Herodotus and other ancient sources as unrealistic, resulting from miscalculations or exaggerations on the part of the victors. Modern scholarly estimates are generally in the range 120,000–300,000. These estimates usually come from studying the logistical capabilities of the Persians in that era, the sustainability of their respective bases of operations, and the overall manpower constraints affecting them. Whatever the real numbers were, however, it is clear that Xerxes was anxious to ensure a successful expedition by mustering an overwhelming numerical superiority by land and by sea.\nThe number of Persian troops present at Thermopylae is therefore as uncertain as the number for the total invasion force. For instance, it is unclear whether the whole Persian army marched as far as Thermopylae, or whether Xerxes left garrisons in Macedon and Thessaly.\n\nAccording to Herodotus and Diodorus Siculus, the Greek army included the following forces:\n\nNotes:\n\n\nPausanias' account agrees with that of Herodotus (whom he probably read) except that he gives the number of Locrians, which Herodotus declined to estimate. Residing in the direct path of the Persian advance, they gave all the fighting men they had - according to Pausanias 6,000 men - which added to Herodotus' 5,200 would have given a force of 11,200.\n\nMany modern historians, who usually consider Herodotus more reliable, add the 1,000 Lacedemonians and the 900 helots to Herodotus' 5,200 to obtain 7,100 or about 7,000 men as a standard number, neglecting Diodorus' Melians and Pausanias' Locrians. However, this is only one approach, and many other combinations are plausible. Furthermore, the numbers changed later on in the battle when most of the army retreated and only approximately 3,000 men remained (300 Spartans, 700 Thespians, 400 Thebans, possibly up to 900 helots, and 1,000 Phocians stationed above the pass, less the casualties sustained in the previous days).\n\nFrom a strategic point of view, by defending Thermopylae, the Greeks were making the best possible use of their forces. As long as they could prevent a further Persian advance into Greece, they had no need to seek a decisive battle and could, thus, remain on the defensive. Moreover, by defending two constricted passages (Thermopylae and Artemisium), the Greeks' inferior numbers became less of a factor. Conversely, for the Persians the problem of supplying such a large army meant they could not remain in the same place for very long. The Persians, therefore, had to retreat or advance, and advancing required forcing the pass of Thermopylae.\n\nTactically, the pass at Thermopylae was ideally suited to the Greek style of warfare. A hoplite phalanx could block the narrow pass with ease, with no risk of being outflanked by cavalry. Moreover, in the pass, the phalanx would have been very difficult to assault for the more lightly armed Persian infantry. The major weak point for the Greeks was the mountain track which led across the highland parallel to Thermopylae, that could allow their position to be outflanked. Although probably unsuitable for cavalry, this path could easily be traversed by the Persian infantry (many of whom were versed in mountain warfare). Leonidas was made aware of this path by local people from Trachis, and he positioned a detachment of Phocian troops there in order to block this route.\n\nIt is often claimed that at the time, the pass of Thermopylae consisted of a track along the shore of the Malian Gulf so narrow that only one chariot could pass through at a time. In fact, as noted below, the pass was 100 metres wide, probably wider than the Greeks could have held against the Persian masses. Herodotus reports that the Phocians had improved the defences of the pass by channelling the stream from the hot springs to create a marsh, and it was a causeway across this marsh which was only wide enough for a single chariot to traverse. In a later passage, describing a Gaulish attempt to force the pass, Herodotus states \"The cavalry on both sides proved useless, as the ground at the Pass is not only narrow, but also smooth because of the natural rock, while most of it is slippery owing to its being covered with streams...the losses of the barbarians it was impossible to discover exactly. For the number of them that disappeared beneath the mud was great.\"\n\nIt is also said that on the southern side of the track stood cliffs that overlooked the pass. However, a glance at any photograph of the pass shows there are no cliffs, only steep slopes covered in thorny bushes and trees. Although no obstacle to individuals, such terrain would not be passable by an army and its baggage train.\n\nOn the north side of the roadway was the Malian Gulf, into which the land shelved gently. When at a later date, an army of Gauls led by Brennus attempted to force the pass, the shallowness of the water gave the Greek fleet great difficulty getting close enough to the fighting to bombard the Gauls with ship-borne missile weapons.\n\nAlong the path itself was a series of three constrictions, or \"gates\" (\"pylai\"), and at the centre gate a wall that had been erected by the Phocians, in the previous century, to aid in their defence against Thessalian invasions. The name \"Hot Gates\" comes from the hot springs that were located there.\n\nThe terrain of the battlefield was nothing that Xerxes and his forces were accustomed to. Although coming from a mountainous country, the Persians were not prepared for the real nature of the country they had invaded. The pure ruggedness of this area is caused by torrential downpours for four months of the year, combined with an intense summer season of scorching heat that cracks the ground. Vegetation is scarce and consists of low, thorny shrubs. The hillsides along the pass are covered in thick brush, with some plants reaching high. With the sea on one side and steep, impassable hills on the other, King Leonidas and his men chose the perfect topographical position to battle the Persian invaders.\n\nToday, the pass is not near the sea, but is several kilometres inland because of sedimentation in the Malian Gulf. The old track appears at the foot of the hills around the plain, flanked by a modern road. Recent core samples indicate that the pass was only wide, and the waters came up to the gates: \"Little do the visitors realize that the battle took place across the road from the monument.\" The pass still is a natural defensive position to modern armies, and British Commonwealth forces in World War II made a defence in 1941 against the Nazi invasion metres from the original battlefield.\n\n\nOn the fifth day after the Persian arrival at Thermopylae and the first day of the battle, Xerxes finally resolved to attack the Greeks. First, he ordered 5,000 archers to fire a barrage of arrows, but they were ineffective; they fired from at least 100 yards away, according to modern day scholars, and the Greeks' bronze shields and helmets deflected the arrows. After that, Xerxes sent a force of 10,000 Medes and Cissians to take the defenders prisoner and bring them before him. The Persians soon launched a frontal assault, in waves of around 10,000 men, on the Greek position. The Greeks fought in front of the Phocian wall, at the narrowest part of the pass, which enabled them to use as few soldiers as possible. Details of the tactics are scant; Diodorus says, \"the men stood shoulder to shoulder\", and the Greeks were \"superior in valour and in the great size of their shields.\" This probably describes the standard Greek phalanx, in which the men formed a wall of overlapping shields and layered spear points protruding out from the sides of the shields, which would have been highly effective as long as it spanned the width of the pass. The weaker shields, and shorter spears and swords of the Persians prevented them from effectively engaging the Greek hoplites. Herodotus says that the units for each city were kept together; units were rotated in and out of the battle to prevent fatigue, which implies the Greeks had more men than necessary to block the pass. The Greeks killed so many Medes that Xerxes is said to have stood up three times from the seat from which he was watching the battle. According to Ctesias, the first wave was \"cut to ribbons\", with only two or three Spartans killed in return.\n\nAccording to Herodotus and Diodorus, the king, having taken the measure of the enemy, threw his best troops into a second assault the same day, the Immortals, an elite corps of 10,000 men. However, the Immortals fared no better than the Medes, and failed to make any headway against the Greeks. The Spartans apparently used a tactic of feigning retreat, and then turning and killing the enemy troops when they ran after them.\n\nOn the second day, Xerxes again sent in the infantry to attack the pass, \"supposing that their enemies, being so few, were now disabled by wounds and could no longer resist.\" However, the Persians had no more success on the second day than on the first. Xerxes at last stopped the assault and withdrew to his camp, \"totally perplexed\".\n\nLater that day, however, as the Persian king was pondering what to do next, he received a windfall; a Trachinian named Ephialtes informed him of the mountain path around Thermopylae and offered to guide the Persian army. Ephialtes was motivated by the desire for a reward. For this act, the name \"Ephialtes\" received a lasting stigma; it came to mean \"nightmare\" in the Greek language and to symbolize the archetypal traitor in Greek culture.\n\nHerodotus reports that Xerxes sent his commander Hydarnes that evening, with the men under his command, the Immortals, to encircle the Greeks via the path. However, he does not say who those men were. The Immortals had been bloodied on the first day, so it is possible that Hydarnes may have been given overall command of an enhanced force including what was left of the Immortals; according to Diodorus, Hydarnes had a force of 20,000 for the mission. The path led from east of the Persian camp along the ridge of Mt. Anopaea behind the cliffs that flanked the pass. It branched, with one path leading to Phocis and the other down to the Malian Gulf at Alpenus, the first town of Locris.\n\nAt daybreak on the third day, the Phocians guarding the path above Thermopylae became aware of the outflanking Persian column by the rustling of oak leaves. Herodotus says they jumped up and were greatly amazed. Hydarnes was perhaps just as amazed to see them hastily arming themselves as they were to see him and his forces. He feared they were Spartans but was informed by Ephialtes that they were not. The Phocians retreated to a nearby hill to make their stand (assuming the Persians had come to attack them). However, not wishing to be delayed, the Persians merely shot a volley of arrows at them, before bypassing them to continue with their encirclement of the main Greek force.\n\nLearning from a runner that the Phocians had not held the path, Leonidas called a council of war at dawn. According to Diodorus, a Persian called Tyrrhastiadas, a Cymaean by birth, warned the Greeks. Some of the Greeks argued for withdrawal, but Leonidas resolved to stay at the pass with the Spartans. Upon discovering that his army had been encircled, Leonidas told his allies that they could leave if they wanted to. While many of the Greeks took him up on his offer and fled, around two thousand soldiers stayed behind to fight and die. Knowing that the end was near, the Greeks marched into the open field and met the Persians head-on. Many of the Greek contingents then either chose to withdraw (without orders) or were ordered to leave by Leonidas (Herodotus admits that there is some doubt about which actually happened). The contingent of 700 Thespians, led by their general Demophilus, refused to leave and committed themselves to the fight. Also present were the 400 Thebans and probably the helots who had accompanied the Spartans.\n\nLeonidas' actions have been the subject of much discussion. It is commonly stated that the Spartans were obeying the laws of Sparta by not retreating, but it seems it was actually the failure to retreat from Thermopylae that gave rise to the notion that Spartans never retreated. It is also possible that, recalling the words of the Oracle, Leonidas was committed to sacrifice his life in order to save Sparta. However, since the prophecy was specific to him, this seems a poor reason to commit 1,500 other men to a fight to the death.\nThe most likely theory is that Leonidas chose to form a rearguard so that the other Greek contingents could get away. If all the troops had retreated, the open ground beyond the pass would have allowed the Persian cavalry to run the Greeks down. If they had all remained at the pass, they would have been encircled and would eventually have all been killed. By covering the retreat and continuing to block the pass, Leonidas could save more than 3,000 men, who would be able to fight again.\n\nThe Thebans have also been the subject of some discussion. Herodotus suggests they were brought to the battle as hostages to ensure the good behavior of Thebes. However, as Plutarch long ago pointed out, if they were hostages, why not send them away with the rest of the Greeks? The likelihood is that these were the Theban \"loyalists\", who unlike the majority of their fellow citizens, objected to Persian domination. They thus probably came to Thermopylae of their own free will and stayed to the end because they could not return to Thebes if the Persians conquered Boeotia. The Thespians, resolved as they were not to submit to Xerxes, faced the destruction of their city if the Persians took Boeotia.\n\nHowever, this alone does not explain the fact that they remained; the remainder of Thespiae was successfully evacuated before the Persians arrived there. It seems that the Thespians volunteered to remain as a simple act of self-sacrifice, all the more amazing since their contingent represented every single hoplite the city could muster. This seems to have been a particularly Thespian trait – on at least two other occasions in later history, a Thespian force would commit itself to a fight to the death.\n\nAt dawn, Xerxes made libations, pausing to allow the Immortals sufficient time to descend the mountain, and then began his advance. A Persian force of 10,000 men, comprising light infantry and cavalry, charged at the front of the Greek formation. The Greeks this time sallied forth from the wall to meet the Persians in the wider part of the pass, in an attempt to slaughter as many Persians as they could. They fought with spears, until every spear was shattered, and then switched to \"xiphē\" (short swords). In this struggle, Herodotus states that two of Xerxes' brothers fell: Abrocomes and Hyperanthes. Leonidas also died in the assault, shot down by Persian archers, and the two sides fought over his body; the Greeks took possession. As the Immortals approached, the Greeks withdrew and took a stand on a hill behind the wall. The Thebans \"moved away from their companions, and with hands upraised, advanced toward the barbarians...\" (Rawlinson translation), but a few were slain before their surrender was accepted. The king later had the Theban prisoners branded with the royal mark. Of the remaining defenders, Herodotus says: \"Here they defended themselves to the last, those who still had swords using them, and the others resisting with their hands and teeth.\" Tearing down part of the wall, Xerxes ordered the hill surrounded, and the Persians rained down arrows until every last Greek was dead. In 1939, archaeologist Spyridon Marinatos, excavating at Thermopylae, found large numbers of Persian bronze arrowheads on Kolonos Hill, which changed the identification of the hill on which the Greeks were thought to have died from a smaller one nearer the wall.\n\nThe pass at Thermopylae was thus opened to the Persian army, according to Herodotus, at the cost to the Persians of up to 20,000 fatalities. The Greek rearguard, meanwhile, was annihilated, with a probable loss of 2,000 men, including those killed on the first two days of battle. Herodotus says, at one point 4,000 Greeks died, but assuming the Phocians guarding the track were not killed during the battle (as Herodotus implies), this would be almost every Greek soldier present (by Herodotus' own estimates), and this number is probably too high.\n\nWhen the Persians recovered Leonidas' body, Xerxes, in a rage against Leonidas, ordered that the head be cut off and the body crucified. Herodotus observes this was very uncommon for the Persians, as they traditionally treated \"valiant warriors\" with great honour (the example of Pytheas, captured off Skiathos before the Battle of Artemisium, strengthens this suggestion). However, Xerxes was known for his rage. Legend has it that he had the very water of the Hellespont whipped because it would not obey him.\n\nAfter the Persians' departure, the Greeks collected their dead and buried them on the hill. After the Persian invasion was repulsed, a stone lion was erected at Thermopylae to commemorate Leonidas. A full 40 years after the battle, Leonidas' bones were returned to Sparta, where he was buried again with full honours; funeral games were held every year in his memory.\n\nWith Thermopylae now opened to the Persian army, the continuation of the blockade at Artemisium by the Greek fleet became irrelevant. The simultaneous naval Battle of Artemisium had been a tactical stalemate, and the Greek navy was able to retreat in good order to the Saronic Gulf, where they helped to ferry the remaining Athenian citizens to the island of Salamis.\n\nFollowing Thermopylae, the Persian army proceeded to sack and burn Plataea and Thespiae, the Boeotian cities that had not submitted, before it marched on the now evacuated city of Athens. Meanwhile, the Greeks (for the most part Peloponnesians) preparing to defend the Isthmus of Corinth, demolished the single road that led through it and built a wall across it. As at Thermopylae, making this an effective strategy required the Greek navy to stage a simultaneous blockade, barring the passage of the Persian navy across the Saronic Gulf, so that troops could not be landed directly on the Peloponnese. However, instead of a mere blockade, Themistocles persuaded the Greeks to seek a decisive victory against the Persian fleet. Luring the Persian navy into the Straits of Salamis, the Greek fleet was able to destroy much of the Persian fleet in the Battle of Salamis, which essentially ended the threat to the Peloponnese.\n\nFearing the Greeks might attack the bridges across the Hellespont and trap his army in Europe, Xerxes now retreated with much of the Persian army back to Asia, though nearly all of them died of starvation and disease on the return voyage. He left a hand-picked force, under Mardonius, to complete the conquest the following year. However, under pressure from the Athenians, the Peloponnesians eventually agreed to try to force Mardonius to battle, and they marched on Attica. Mardonius retreated to Boeotia to lure the Greeks into open terrain, and the two sides eventually met near the city of Plataea. At the Battle of Plataea, the Greek army won a decisive victory, destroying much of the Persian army and ending the invasion of Greece. Meanwhile, at the near-simultaneous naval Battle of Mycale, they also destroyed much of the remaining Persian fleet, thereby reducing the threat of further invasions.\nThermopylae is arguably the most famous battle in European ancient history, repeatedly referenced in ancient, recent, and contemporary culture. In Western culture at least, it is the Greeks who are lauded for their performance in battle. However, within the context of the Persian invasion, Thermopylae was undoubtedly a defeat for the Greeks. It seems clear that the Greek strategy was to hold off the Persians at Thermopylae and Artemisium; whatever they may have intended, it was presumably not their desire to surrender all of Boeotia and Attica to the Persians. The Greek position at Thermopylae, despite being massively outnumbered, was nearly impregnable. If the position had been held for even a little longer, the Persians might have had to retreat for lack of food and water. Thus, despite the heavy losses, forcing the pass was strategically a Persian victory, but the successful retreat of the bulk of the Greek troops was in its own sense a victory as well. The battle itself had showed what a few free men, willing to do anything for victory against the invaders, could accomplish, and the defeat at Thermopylae had turned Leonidas and the men under his command into martyrs. That boosted the morale of all Greek soldiers in the second Persian invasion.\n\nIt is sometimes stated that Thermopylae was a Pyrrhic victory for the Persians (i.e., one in which the victor is as damaged by the battle as the defeated party). However, there is no suggestion by Herodotus that the effect on the Persian forces was that. The idea ignores the fact that the Persians would, in the aftermath of Thermopylae, conquer the majority of Greece, and the fact that they were still fighting in Greece a year later. Alternatively, the argument is sometimes advanced that the last stand at Thermopylae was a successful delaying action that gave the Greek navy time to prepare for the Battle of Salamis. However, compared to the probable time (about one month) between Thermopylae and Salamis, the time bought was negligible. Furthermore, this idea also neglects the fact that a Greek navy was fighting at Artemisium during the Battle of Thermopylae, incurring losses in the process. George Cawkwell suggests that the gap between Thermopylae and Salamis was caused by Xerxes' systematically reducing Greek opposition in Phocis and Boeotia, and not as a result of the Battle of Thermopylae; thus, as a delaying action, Thermopylae was insignificant compared to Xerxes' own procrastination. Far from labelling Thermopylae as a Pyrrhic victory, modern academic treatises on the Greco-Persian Wars tend to emphasise the success of Xerxes in breaching the formidable Greek position and the subsequent conquest of the majority of Greece. For instance, Cawkwell states: \"he was successful on both land and sea, and the Great Invasion began with a brilliant success.\n... Xerxes had every reason to congratulate himself\", while Lazenby describes the Greek defeat as \"disastrous\".\n\nThe fame of Thermopylae is thus principally derived not from its effect on the outcome of the war but for the inspirational example it set. Thermopylae is famous because of the heroism of the doomed rearguard, who, despite facing certain death, remained at the pass. Ever since, the events of Thermopylae have been the source of effusive praise from many sources: \"...the fairest sister-victories which the Sun has ever seen, yet they would never dare to compare their combined glory with the glorious defeat of King Leonidas and his men.\" A second reason is the example it set of free men, fighting for their country and their freedom:\n\nSo almost immediately, contemporary Greeks saw Thermopylae as a critical moral and culture lesson. In universal terms, a small, free people had willingly outfought huge numbers of imperial subjects who advanced under the lash. More specifically, the Western idea that soldiers themselves decide where, how, and against whom they will fight was contrasted against the Eastern notion of despotism and monarchy—freedom proving the stronger idea as the more courageous fighting of the Greeks at Thermopylae, and their later victories at Salamis and Plataea attested. While this paradigm of \"free men\" outfighting \"slaves\" can be seen as a rather sweeping over-generalization (there are many counter-examples), it is nevertheless true that many commentators have used Thermopylae to illustrate this point.\n\nMilitarily, although the battle was actually not decisive in the context of the Persian invasion, Thermopylae is of some significance on the basis of the first two days of fighting. The performance of the defenders is used as an example of the advantages of training, equipment, and good use of terrain as force multipliers.\n\nThere are several monuments around the battlefield of Thermopylae.\n\nA well-known epigram, usually attributed to Simonides, was engraved as an epitaph on a commemorative stone placed on top of the burial mound of the Spartans at Thermopylae. It is also the hill on which the last of them died. The original stone has not survived, but in 1955, the epitaph was engraved on a new stone. The text from Herodotus is:\n\nThe alternative ancient reading (\"peithomenoi nomίmois\") for (\"rhēmasi peithomenoi\") substitutes \"laws\" or \"orders\" for \"words.\" In other words, the \"orders\" are not personal but refer to official and binding phrases (the Ancient Greek term can also refer to a formal speech).\n\nThe form of this ancient Greek poetry is an elegiac couplet, commonly used for epitaphs. Some English renderings are given in the table below. It is also an example of Laconian brevity, a Spartan style of verse that allows for varying interpretations of the meaning of the poem. Ioannis Ziogas points out that the usual English translations are far from the only interpretation possible, and indicate much about the romantic tendencies of the translators.\n\nIt was well known in ancient Greece that all the Spartans who had been sent to Thermopylae had been killed there (with the exception of Aristodemus and Pantites), and the epitaph exploits the conceit that there was nobody left to bring the news of their deeds back to Sparta. Greek epitaphs often appealed to the passing reader (always called 'stranger') for sympathy, but the epitaph for the dead Spartans at Thermopylae took this convention much further than usual, asking the reader to make a personal journey to Sparta to break the news that the Spartan expeditionary force had been wiped out. The stranger is also asked to stress that the Spartans died 'fulfilling their orders'.\n\nThe first line of the epigram was used as the title of the short story \"Stranger, Bear Word to the Spartans We…\" by German Nobel Prize laureate Heinrich Böll. A variant of the epigram is inscribed on the Polish Cemetery at Monte Cassino.\n\nJohn Ruskin expressed the importance of this ideal to Western civilization as follows:Also obedience in its highest form is not obedience to a constant and compulsory law, but a persuaded or voluntary yielded obedience to an issued command ... His name who leads the armies of Heaven is \"Faithful and True\"... and all deeds which are done in alliance with these armies ... are essentially deeds of faith, which therefore ... is at once the source and the substance of all known deed, rightly so called ... as set forth in the last word of the noblest group of words ever, so far as I know, uttered by simple man concerning his practice, being the final testimony of the leaders of a great practical nation ... [the epitaph in Greek]\n\nCicero recorded a Latin variation in his \"Tusculanae Disputationes\" (1.42.101):\n\nAdditionally, there is a modern monument at the site, called the \"Leonidas Monument\", in honour of the Spartan king. It features a bronze statue of Leonidas. A sign, under the statue, reads simply: \"Μολὼν λαβέ\" (\"Come and take them!\"—as in answer to Xerxes' demand that the Greeks give up their weapons). The metope below depicts battle scenes. The two marble statues on the left and the right of the monument represent, respectively, the river Eurotas and Mount Taygetos, famous landmarks of Sparta.\n\nIn 1997, a second monument was officially unveiled by the Greek government, dedicated to the 700 Thespians who fought with the Spartans. The monument is made of marble and features a bronze statue depicting the god Eros, to whom the ancient Thespians accorded particular religious veneration. Under the statue, a sign reads: \"In memory of the seven hundred Thespians.\"\n\nA plate below the statue explains its symbolism:\n\nThe monument to the Thespians is placed beside the one to the Spartans.\n\nHerodotus' colorful account of the battle has provided history with many apocryphal incidents and conversations away from the main historical events. These accounts are obviously not verifiable, but they form an integral part of the legend of the battle and often demonstrate the laconic speech (and wit) of the Spartans to good effect.\n\nFor instance, Plutarch recounts, in his \"Sayings of Spartan Women\", upon his departure, Leonidas' wife Gorgo asked what she should do if he did not return, to which Leonidas replied, \"Marry a good man and have good children.\"\n\nIt is reported that, upon arriving at Thermopylae, the Persians sent a mounted scout to reconnoitre. The Greeks allowed him to come up to the camp, observe them, and depart. Xerxes found the scout's reports of the size of the Greek force, and that the Spartans were indulging in callisthenics and combing their long hair, laughable. Seeking the counsel of Demaratus, an exiled Spartan king in his retinue, Xerxes was told the Spartans were preparing for battle, and it was their custom to adorn their hair when they were about to risk their lives. Demaratus called them \"the bravest men in Greece\" and warned the Great King they intended to dispute the pass. He emphasized that he had tried to warn Xerxes earlier in the campaign, but the king had refused to believe him. He added that if Xerxes ever managed to subdue the Spartans, \"there is no other nation in all the world which will venture to lift a hand in their defence.\"\n\nHerodotus also describes Leonidas' reception of a Persian embassy. The ambassador told Leonidas that Xerxes would offer him the kingship of all Greece if he joined with Xerxes. Leonidas answered: \"If you had any knowledge of the noble things of life, you would refrain from coveting others' possessions; but for me to die for Greece is better than to be the sole ruler over the people of my race.\" Then the ambassador asked him more forcefully to surrender their arms. To this Leonidas gave his famous answer: (pronounced ) \"Come and get them.\"\n\nSuch Laconic bravery doubtlessly helped to maintain morale. Herodotus writes that when Dienekes, a Spartan soldier, was informed that Persian arrows would be so numerous as \"to block out the sun\", he retorted, unconcerned: \"So much the better...then we shall fight our battle in the shade.\"\n\nAfter the battle, Xerxes was curious as to what the Greeks had been trying to do (presumably because they had had so few men) and had some Arcadian deserters interrogated in his presence. The answer was: all the other men were participating in the Olympic Games. When Xerxes asked what the prize was for the winner, the answer was: \"an olive-wreath\". Upon hearing this, Tigranes, a Persian general, said: \"Good heavens, Mardonius, what kind of men are these that you have pitted against us? It is not for riches that they contend but for honour!\" (Godley translation) or otherwise, \"Ye Gods, Mardonius, what men have you brought us to fight against? Men that fight not for gold, but for glory.\"\n\nThe Battle of Thermopylae has remained a cultural icon of western civilization ever since it was fought. The battle is revisited in countless adages and works of popular culture, such as in films (e.g., \"The 300 Spartans\" (1962) and \"300\" (2007), based on the events during and close to the time of the battle), in literature, in song, in television programs, and in video games. The battle is also discussed in many articles and books on the theory and practice of warfare.\nPrior to the battle, the Hellenes remembered the Dorians, an ethnic distinction which applied to the Spartans, as the conquerors and displacers of the Ionians in the Peloponnesus. After the battle, Spartan culture became an inspiration and object of emulation, a phenomenon known as Laconophilia.\nThere are several analogous battles.\nSimilarities between the Battle of Thermopylae and the Battle of Persian Gate have been recognized by both ancient and modern authors, which describe it as a kind of reversal of the Battle of Thermopylae, calling it \"the Persian Thermopylae\". Here, on Alexander the Great's campaign against Persia in 330 BC to exact revenge for the Persian invasion of Greece, he faced the same situation, encountering a last stand of the Persian forces (under Ariobarzanes) at a narrow pass near Persepolis who held the invaders for a month, until their fall as the enemy found a path to their rear. There are even accounts that a local shepherd informed Alexander's forces about the secret path, just as a local Greek showed the Persian forces a secret path around the pass at Thermopylae. Curtius describes the subsequent battle fought by the surrounded, unarmed Persians as \"memorable\".\n\nOther analogous battles include:\n\n\nInformational notes<br>\n\nCitations\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "495589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=495589", "title": "Battle of the Bands", "text": "Battle of the Bands\n\nBattle of the Bands is a contest in which two or more bands compete for the title of \"best band\". The winner is determined by a voice vote of the audience or the band who brings the most people to support them. Traditionally, battles of bands are held at live music events and forums. Popular examples include the yearly Live and Unsigned contest in the United Kingdom and the annual SoundWave Music Competition. \nNippon term \"対バン (pronunciation: [taiban])\" seems from battles of bands, however in most cases now it doesn't mean battles and just means 2-or-more-band live events.\nA Battle of the Bands is a contest in which many bands, usually rock or metal bands, but often musical acts from a range of different styles, compete for the title of \"best band\". The winner is determined by a panel of judges, the general response of the audience, or a combination. The winning band usually receives a prize in addition to bragging rights. Prizes usually include cash, free recording time in a local recording studio, support or main slot at a local or large gig, a piece of new equipment, or a gift certificate. For instance, the band Phish won a battle of the bands competition in 1989 in their hometown of Burlington, Vermont, and won recording time at a local studio, which they used to record their second album \"Lawn Boy\".\n\nBattles of bands are sometimes held as part of a live music event; they are also commonly held at high schools and universities. The term \"Battle of the Bands\" is a trademark in Canada, held since 1998 by the Toronto promotions company Supernova Interactive.\n\nThe simultaneous release of albums and singles in 1995 sparked a media-fuelled \"Battle of Britpop\" between northern England's working-class Oasis and southern England's middle-class Blur. Also in the United Kingdom, the largest annual music contest in a battle of the bands format is Live and Unsigned, which has been operating since 2007. The contest regularly draws 10,000 participants, with the grand prize of a £50,000 recording deal.\n\nOne of the best known battle of the bands competitions in the United States was the Rock 'n' Roll Rumble, held by the Boston rock radio station WBCN. The competition was held by the station from 1979 until its closure in 2009, and was then subsequently operated by an independent group. Several winners and participants became nationally popular after appearing in the competition, including Mission of Burma (1979 participant), 'Til Tuesday (1983 winner), The Lemonheads (1988 participant), Letters to Cleo, Morphine, Powerman 5000 (all 1992 participants), The Amazing Royal Crowns (1997 winner) and The Dresden Dolls (2003 winner).\n\nA Battle of the Bands event forms the climax of a number of films, including \"Bandslam\", \"Blues Brothers 2000\", \"Up in Smoke\", \"School of Rock\", \"Freaky Friday\", and \"Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey\". In the 2012 horror thriller film \"House at the End of the Street\", starring Jennifer Lawrence, there are scenes resembling Battle of the Bands.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, Battle of the Bands events became popular in Texas. The Catacombs, a popular Houston rock nightclub in what is now the Uptown area of Houston, hosted many well known groups of the era including Grateful Dead, Jethro Tull, Jeff Beck Group, and The Mothers of Invention. Dallas, Austin, and San Antonio were also popular venues.\n\nIn 1968, California band The Turtles released a concept album, \"The Turtles Present the Battle of the Bands\", with the band playing in different styles from psychedelic to surf music to bluegrass.\n\nIn the \"Take That\" musical, \"Never Forget\", the show centres on a tribute band working to win the \"Battle of the Tribute Bands\".\n\nThird World Games have produced a \"Battle of the Bands\" card game, which takes a tongue-in-cheek look at the music business. The object is to recruit members into your band, equip them with instruments, win \"gigs\" and \"hit singles\" and earn enough \"Superstar Points\" to win. The game is also available for play on GameTable Online. There is also a \"Battle of the Bands\" video game and TV movie. In the music video game \"Guitar Hero World Tour\" and all games that followed, a \"battle of the bands\" mode is featured as an online gameplay mode.\n\nThe \"battle of the bands\" concept has had a heavy influence on reality television. Shows such as the Idol series and \"The X Factor\" borrow the basic concept of a \"battle of the bands\" except with individual singers instead of whole bands, combining the concept with a serial elimination format. There was a brief American series in the vein, \"The Next Great American Band\", that did use whole bands. The former South African competition Rockspaaider followed a battle of the bands format, where rock-bands from all over the country are given the chance to compete for the title \"Rockspaaider\" and a recording contract. The competition, along with the introduction of the Afrikaans music channel MK, resulted in the resurgence of the Afrikaans music industry, especially the rise of Afrikaans Rock.\n\nIn the 2003 film \"School of Rock\" Dewey Finn enters Battle of the Bands with his students. It happens in the musical and TV adaptation of the same name.\n\nIn the 2011 Australian film \"Swerve\", a battle of the marching bands serves as background to most of the scenes set in the small country town.\n\nIn the 2014 animated film , a trio of banished sirens from Equestria arrive at Canterlot High School and quickly transform the school's upcoming musical showcase into a Battle of the Bands in order to feed on the negative energy created by pitting groups against one another.\n"}
{"id": "45194914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45194914", "title": "Blancpain GT Series", "text": "Blancpain GT Series\n\nThe Blancpain GT Series is a sports car racing series organized by the Stéphane Ratel Organisation (SRO) with the approval of the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA). It features grand tourer racing cars modified from production road cars complying with the FIA's GT3 regulations. The series is divided into two separate championships, the Blancpain GT Series Sprint Cup and the Blancpain GT Series Endurance Cup. Although the Blancpain GT Series Endurance Cup is organised since 2011, the inaugural season of the Blancpain GT Series is 2014, because in that year the FIA GT Series became the Blancpain Sprint Series, which is now the Blancpain GT World Challenge Europe. The series is primarily sponsored by Swiss watchmaker Blancpain.\n\nAfter developing their partnership, Blancpain and the SRO have decided that 2016 will see both the Sprint and Endurance Series further integrated into the Blancpain GT Series, putting the emphasis on the prestigious overall drivers' and manufacturers' titles causing the Sprint Series name to change from Blancpain Sprint Series to Blancpain GT Series Sprint Cup and the Endurance Series name to change from Blancpain Endurance Series to Blancpain GT Series Endurance Cup.\n\n"}
{"id": "36366239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36366239", "title": "China Fashion Week", "text": "China Fashion Week\n\nChina Fashion Week is an international fashion event held twice a year at various venues in Beijing, China. The event originated in 1997 and hosts professional contests, exhibitions, fashion forums and professional evaluations. The event showcases fashion collections from various designers, including ready-to-wear, accessories, styling and other new designs. The dates for Fashion Week, in March and October, are determined by the China Fashion Federation.\n\nTo date, 959 fashion shows have been held in Beijing where over 3200 designers and models have contributed from countries such as Japan, Korea, Singapore, France, Italy, United States, Russia, Britain, Switzerland, Netherlands and Sweden.\n\nThe China Fashion Week Fashion Awards consist of four award categories: \n\n\nChina National Garment Association (CNGA): Founded in 1991, CNGA is a self-regulated, non-profit organization engaged in China's garment industry and is China's first national trade association at the 4A level.\n\nMercedes-Benz:: In 2011, China International Fashion Week and luxury car brand leader. They established a strategic partnership. China International Fashion Week has listed China Fashion Week in Mercedes-Benz Fashion Weeks worldwide. In October 2014, the China International Fashion Week (Spring-Summer 2015) was held in Beijing.\n\n"}
{"id": "38745608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38745608", "title": "City of Bradford Metropolitan District Council election, 1984", "text": "City of Bradford Metropolitan District Council election, 1984\n\nThe City of Bradford Metropolitan District Council elections were held on Thursday, 3 May 1984, with one third of the council and an extra vacancy in Bradford Moor to be elected. The council remained under no overall control.\n\nThis result had the following consequences for the total number of seats on the council after the elections:\n"}
{"id": "16117621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16117621", "title": "Congress of People's Deputies of Russia", "text": "Congress of People's Deputies of Russia\n\nThe Congress of People's Deputies of the Russian SFSR () and since 1991 Congress of People's Deputies of the Russian Federation () was the supreme government institution in the Russian SFSR and in the Russian Federation from 16 May 1990 to 21 September 1993. Elected on 4 March 1990 for a period of five years, it was dissolved (without constitutional authority) by presidential decree during the Russian constitutional crisis of 1993 and ended \"de facto\" when the Russian White House was attacked on 4 October 1993. The Congress played an important role some of the most important events in the history of Russia during this period, such as the declaration of independence of Russia from the USSR (December 1991), the rise of Boris Yeltsin, and economic reforms.\n\nThe Congress had the power to pass laws by majority, which must then be signed by the President (with no right to veto until July 1991). The Congress held the ultimate power in the country (that is, power to decide on \"any questions within jurisdiction of the Russian Federation\") and some of the most-important powers (passage of and amendment of the Constitution, approval of the Prime Minister of Russia and the holders of the highest public offices, selection of the members of the committee of constitutional supervision (judges of Constitutional Court since 1991), declaration of referendums, impeachment of the president, etc.) were exclusive powers of Congress, exercised solely by it.\n\nThe Congress officially consisted of 1068 deputies, most of whom were elected in the general election on 4 March 1990, but the actual size varied due to several reelections and structural changes.\n900 deputies were elected from the territorial regions, proportional to population;\n168 more from the national-territorial regions: 64 from the 16 Autonomous Republic (four from each), 10 from the five autonomous regions (two from each), 10 from the 10 autonomous area (one from each), 84 from krais, oblasts, and the cities of Moscow and Leningrad.\n\nA total of 1,059 deputies were elected by the beginning of the first session of the Congress on 16 May 1990.\n1037 deputies were present on 21 September 1993; 938 on 4 October 1993.\n\nTwo thirds of the deputies had to be present for the Congress to meet the quorum.\n\nConstitutionally the Congress was required to meet every year, but actually due to the turbulent events during these years it met from two to three times a year. The Congress gathered in the Grand Kremlin Palace (except Xth congress that gathered in White House) and held a total of ten sessions. Its last session was held after the presidential dissolution degree, and was interrupted by armed attack on the White House by forces loyal to the president of Russia, Boris Yeltsin.\n\n\nThe Supreme Soviet of RSFSR (later Supreme Soviet of Russian Federation) was a legislative body elected by the Congress to govern between the Congressional sessions.\nIt consisted of 252 deputies, divided into the Council of the Republic (126 deputies) elected proportionately to the population size, and another 126 deputies from the Council of Nationalities, representing the federal subjects of Russia.\n\nThe Supreme Soviet was entrusted with the power to pass laws, ratify treaties, assign cabinet members (until 1991) and judges, declare amnesty, and approve presidential decrees. The laws passed by Supreme Soviet were to be signed by the Chairman of the Presidium with no right to veto until July 10, 1991. Afterwards the president gained the right to a delaying veto, which could be bypassed by the Supreme Soviet through a simple majority vote. During its sessions the Supreme Soviet passed a total of 333 federal laws.\n\nThe Chairman of the Supreme Soviet was elected by the Congress. He was the Head of State in Russian SFSR until the creation of the post of President of Russia on 10 July 1991. He signed treaties (without the right to veto), nominated candidates for the Head of Government, conducted diplomacy and signed international agreements.\nFrom 10 July, the Chairman of the Presidium was demoted to the head of the legislative branch of government, a parliamentary speaker. He was also the fourth in line of succession to the Presidency, after the Vice President and the President of the Council of Ministers.\n\nChairmen of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of Russian SFSR:\n\nBoris Yeltsin ran for the post of Chairman as a CPSU member twice unsuccessfully, gaining 497 and 503 votes respectively, out of 531 required to be elected. The CPSU then nominated a more moderate candidate, the President of the Council of Ministers, Alexander Vlasov. President of USSR Mikhail Gorbachev publicly spoke out against Yeltsin at the Congress session. After that, Yeltsin ran again on 29 May 1990 and gained 535 votes (50.52%), consequently becoming the leader of Russian SFSR.\n\nOn 17 March 1991 a national referendum was held in Russia in which 54% voted for the introduction of the post of President of RSFSR. On 12 June 1991, Boris Yeltsin won the election with 57% and became the first president. After he took office on 10 July, six election rounds in the Congress were unable to elect a new Chairman of the Presidium. On October 29, Ruslan Khasbulatov was elected with 559 votes (52.79%).\n\n\n\nDuring the first session of the Congress, 86% were card-carrying members of the CPSU. This number declined steadily as more people resigned from the party, however new major parties were not quick enough to form, leaving a large percentage of the Congress non-partisan. CPSU was banned by president Yeltsin in November 1991 due to the attempted August Coup. The party collapsed completely during the collapse of Soviet Union, and in Russia it was replaced by CPRF.\n\nDuring the first session of the Congress, 24 deputy fractions were registered, numbering 50 to 355 deputies. Dual membership was allowed, so the fraction membership numbered 200% of the entire Congress. Two major blocs quickly formed in opposition to each other – the Communist Bloc, and the Democratic Russia Bloc. The “Democratic Russia” and its allies were initially in the majority, which allowed Yeltsin to be elected as the Chairman of the Presidium. During the fifth session, dual membership in fractions was outlawed, “one deputy – one fraction” law was passed. However, dual membership still remained an issue and in April 1992 there were 30 deputies with membership in several fractions.\n\nBy 1993, a total of 14 fractions remained and 200-210 deputies still haven't declared membership in any fractions. The Democratic Russia Bloc collapsed, and resulted in formation of two new blocs – “Reform Coalition” and “Democratic Centre”. A new bloc called “Russian Unity” formed by the conservative communists and their sympathizers and centre-left “Creative Forces” bloc was formed by the moderate left. Together they constituted majority and voiced opposition to Yeltsin and many of his policies. However, as of March 1993, they still lacked supermajority required for impeachment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1759100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1759100", "title": "Crush fetish", "text": "Crush fetish\n\nA crush fetish is a fetish and a paraphilia in which one is sexually aroused when someone crushes objects, food, and sometimes small animals (frequently insects) with their body, usually under their foot, or when crushed oneself. The term soft crush refers to the more common fetish surrounding videos involving inanimate objects (such as food) or small invertebrates (e.g. insects, snails, worms, arachnids) being crushed, while the term hard crush refers to such videos involving larger animals with vertebrae, and arguably more pain-susceptible animals (e.g. reptiles, birds, mammals). The preference could be barefoot, high-heels, flip flops, socks and sandals, and so on, depending on the fetishist. Most soft crush fetishists prefer to distinguish themselves from hard crush fetishists, believing that crush films with larger animals give the entire group a bad label.\n\nThere are currently no known laws forbidding the crushing of objects and insects, but the production or trade of crush erotica involving live vertebrates is condemned by animal rights activists and is illegal in many countries, including the United States and Great Britain. In the United States, interstate commerce in [hard] crush videos has been illegal since 2010, and many other countries also have banned them.\n\nCrush films are videos of insects and objects being crushed by being stepped on.\n\nJeff Vilencia is one known director of crush films, such as \"Smush!\" Vilencia, along with many other fetishists, has loved to see invertebrates crushed since a young age; he claims that when he was 2–3 years old, he repeatedly attempted to get people to step on him.\n\nThe legality of crush films and the actual practice of crushing varies by region; however, many have been posted on web sites and are available for download via the Internet, making the control of their distribution difficult.\n\nThe production or trade of crush erotica involving vertebrates is condemned by opponents of animal cruelty and is illegal in many countries including the United States.\n\nIn 1999, the United States Congress enacted a statute affecting the legality of crush films which criminalized the creation, sale, and possession of depictions of animal cruelty, though with an exception for \"any depiction that has serious religious, political, scientific, educational, journalistic, historical, or artistic value.\" In 2008, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit invalidated the ban on the sale and possession of such films (if not otherwise obscene) as a violation of the Constitution's guarantee for freedom of speech. The United States Supreme Court affirmed the Third Circuit's decision in \"United States v. Stevens\", finding the law unconstitutional because the law was so broad and vague that it included any portrayal of an animal in or being harmed such as by hunting or disease. On November 28, 2010, bill H.R. 5566, which prohibits interstate commerce in animal crush films, was passed by the House of Representatives and the Senate, and on December 9, the bill was signed by President Obama becoming the Animal Crush Video Prohibition Act of 2010.\n\nOn September 8, 2015, a Houston woman pleaded guilty in the nation's first federal animal crush video case.\n\nAlthough the majority of films are thought to originate in the United States, the first arrest in the UK was made in 2002 of Craig Chapman, Christine Besford, Sarah Cooke, and Theraza Smallwood. The industry is estimated to generate thousands of pounds' worth of sales.\n\nAlthough not illegal under Chinese animal cruelty laws, in 2006, Wang-Jue (), a Chinese nurse appearing in an Internet crush video stomping a helpless kitten, posted an apology on the Luobei city government official website. She said she was recently divorced and did not know what to do with her life. The cameraman, a provincial TV employee, and she lost their jobs when internauts discovered their identities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43636676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43636676", "title": "Dibbles Bridge coach crash (1925)", "text": "Dibbles Bridge coach crash (1925)\n\nThe Dibble's Bridge coach crash was a fatal accident that occurred on 10 June 1925 on the B6265 road, at Dibble's Bridge, below Grimwith Reservoir east of Hebden, in the civil parish of Hartlington in Craven, North Yorkshire, England. Seven people were killed, and a number of others injured. \n\nThe accident occurred when a coach carrying a party of members of the York Municipal Guild and their families on an outing to Bolton Abbey from York suffered brake failure as it travelled down a 1:6 (9.5°) (16.67%) gradient from Fancarl Top to the bottom of the valley downstream of Grimwith reservoir. It gained considerable speed and failing to negotiate the sharp bend at the bottom crashed through the parapet of Dibble's Bridge, landing on its roof. Many of the passengers were pinned beneath the vehicle, five being killed instantly, whilst two others died within half an hour. A number of other passengers were injured.\n"}
{"id": "26004293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26004293", "title": "Electric Factory Concerts", "text": "Electric Factory Concerts\n\nElectric Factory Concerts is a Philadelphia-based concert promotion firm, affiliated with the Electric Factory venue in that city. It was founded by Herbert Spivak, who ran the business with his brothers Jerry Spivak and Allen Spivak. They later hired Larry Magid to become General Manager, and he also became a co-owner of the company.\n\nIts first concert staging was on February 2, 1968, at the old Electric Factory and featured The Chambers Brothers. It survived the closing of the original Electric Factory venue and went on to prosper. It became prominent in promoting concerts at all venues in the Philadelphia area, including many at the Philadelphia Spectrum.\n\nIn late 1975, Electric Factory Concerts bought the Tower Theater from its owner Midnight Sun. About a year later, Midnight Sun commenced an anti-trust action against Electric Factory and its secret concert partner, Spectrum Corporation, in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The suit dragged on for several years and was eventually settled for approximately $1 million, as reported in \"Rolling Stone\" and the Philadelphia newspapers. A later anti-trust suit by rock promoter Stephen Starr against Electric Factory Concerts was also settled for the same amount in 1990, which then financed Starr's rise as a star in the restaurant industry.\n\nThe firm gained national renown. It played a role in staging 1985's Live Aid and 2005's Live 8 concert, Philadelphia.\n\nElectric Factory Concerts remains the dominant Philadelphia concert promoter, though the brand is now owned by Live Nation Entertainment.\n\nThe International Association of Theatrical Stage Employees, Local 8 has called for a boycott of all Electric Factory Concert events, stating that the promoter \"(undermines) the area standard.\"\n"}
{"id": "31115000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31115000", "title": "Fiacre's First and Foremost", "text": "Fiacre's First and Foremost\n\nCh. Fiacre's First and Foremost (born 9 September 2007), also known as Fiona, is a Dalmatian bred to have low levels of uric acid. She is registered to the United Kennel Club Dalmatian Breed Club in America and was registered with the American Kennel Club in 2011, when LUA Dalmatians were granted entry into the AKC. She became the first low uric acid Dalmatian to compete at Crufts in the United Kingdom in 2011.\n\nDr. Robert Schaible started a breeding program in 1973 to outcross an American Kennel Club (AKC) champion Dalmatian with a Pointer to correct a genetic defect in the Dalmatian breed that affects the metabolism of uric acid. This condition can lead to a variety of complications, including urate crystal arthropathy, bladder stones, obstruction of the urinary tract and potentially death.\n\nFiona was born on September 9, 2007, in Nevada, her unique breeding name being \"Fiacre's First and Foremost\". She has liver spots. She is the 15th generation of the cross conducted by Dr. Schaible, which makes her 99.98% Dalmatian.\n\nShe has been tested for the mutated gene that causes high uric acid levels, and the results showed she carried the normal genes for uric acid levels. Dogs with a single normal gene will have low levels of uric acid, but their offspring can have either high or low levels of uric acid; however, dogs like Fiona who have two normal genes have low uric acid levels and all of their offspring will have low levels of uric acid, regardless of the dog to which it is bred.\n\nShe completed her championship in the UKC after four shows. By the time she was six months old, she placed Reserve Best in Show on three occasions, and won one Best in Show. She became the UKC top-ranked Dalmatian for 2008 and 2009, winning the Companion Group at the UKC's premier show, the first time a Dalmatian has achieved this. At the show in 2010, Fiona became a UKC \"Total\" dog, winning the conformation competition and receiving a qualifying score in a performance event.\n\nIn August 2010, she was moved to live with Julie Evans in Barmouth, North Wales. Julie had been working to convince The Kennel Club (UK) to register low uric Dalmatians. Two Kennel Club judges assessed Fiona and confirmed she was a Dalmatian and eligible to compete at Kennel Club shows. At her first show in the UK at the British Utility Breeds Association (BUBA), she placed third in the Limit Bitch class out of 13 entries, which qualified her to compete at the 2011 Crufts show. At three further shows, she placed Best of Breed twice and won the group once. As qualification for Crufts is earned in shows in the year prior to the event, Fiona placed Second Limit Bitch at the Boston and District Canine Society on January 9, 2011, qualifying her for Crufts in 2012.\n\nFiona's entry at Crufts has caused some uproar among traditionalists. Anne Harcraft, a dog breeder, said, \"This is a dog that is not purebred. This is a mongrel. You can't cross a Dalmatian with a pointer and say it's a Dalmatian. This is unethical and I'd be disgusted if the dog won.\" Jemima Harrison, the producer of \"Pedigree Dogs Exposed\", said of the criticism Fiona has received, \"It is astonishing but true that the majority of breeders would rather have sick dogs than allow a single drop of foreign blood to taint their breeds.\" The Utility Group competition, of which the Dalmatian breed is part, at Crufts 2011 took place on March 13, 2011. Bookmaker William Hill gave odds of 16 to 1 for Fiona to win Best in Breed. Fiona ultimately did not place, with best of breed going to Ch. Dalmark The Shaded Moon at Nospar JW.\n\nIn 2012, Fiona returned to the United States and completed her championship with the American Kennel Club in 2012 with five major wins.\n\n"}
{"id": "230149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230149", "title": "Foie gras", "text": "Foie gras\n\nFoie gras (, ; ) is considered a luxury food product made of the liver of a duck or goose that has been especially fattened. By French law, foie gras is defined as the liver of a duck or goose fattened by force-feeding corn with a feeding tube, a process also known as gavage. In Spain and other countries, it is occasionally produced using natural feeding. Ducks are force-fed twice a day for 12.5 days and geese three times a day for around 17 days. Ducks are typically slaughtered at 100 days and geese at 112 days.\n\nFoie gras is a popular and well-known delicacy in French cuisine. Its flavor is described as rich, buttery, and delicate, unlike that of an ordinary duck or goose liver. Foie gras is sold whole, or is prepared into mousse, parfait, or pâté, and may also be served as an accompaniment to another food item, such as steak. French law states that \"Foie gras belongs to the protected cultural and gastronomical heritage of France.\"\n\nThe technique of gavage dates as far back as 2500 BC, when the ancient Egyptians began keeping birds for food and deliberately fattened the birds through force-feeding. Today, France is by far the largest producer and consumer of foie gras, though it is produced and consumed worldwide, particularly in other European nations, the United States, and China.\n\nGavage-based foie gras production is controversial, due mainly to the animal welfare concerns about force-feeding, intensive housing and husbandry, and enlarging the liver to 10 times its usual volume. A number of countries and jurisdictions have laws against force-feeding, and the production, import or sale of foie gras; even where it is legal, a number of retailers decline to stock it.\n\nAs early as 2500 BC, the ancient Egyptians learned that many birds could be fattened through forced overfeeding and began this practice. Whether they particularly sought the fattened livers of birds as a delicacy remains undetermined. In the necropolis of Saqqara, in the tomb of Mereruka, an important royal official, there is a bas relief scene wherein workers grasp geese around the necks in order to push food down their throats. At the side stand tables piled with more food pellets, and a flask for moistening the feed before giving it to the geese.\n\nThe practice of goose fattening spread from Egypt to the Mediterranean. The earliest reference to fattened geese is from the 5th century BC Greek poet Cratinus, who wrote of geese-fatteners, yet Egypt maintained its reputation as the source for fattened geese. When the Spartan king Agesilaus visited Egypt in 361 BC, he noted Egyptian farmers fattened geese and calves.\n\nIt was not until the Roman period, however, that foie gras is mentioned as a distinct food, which the Romans named \"iecur ficatum\"; \"iecur\" means liver and \"ficatum\" derives from \"ficus\", meaning fig in Latin. The emperor Elagabalus fed his dogs on foie gras during the four years of his reign. Pliny the Elder (1st century AD) credits his contemporary, Roman gastronome Marcus Gavius Apicius, with feeding dried figs to geese in order to enlarge their livers:\n\nHence, the term \"iecur ficatum\", fig-stuffed liver; feeding figs to enlarge a goose's liver may derive from Hellenistic Alexandria, since much of Roman luxury cuisine was of Greek inspiration. \"Ficatum\" was closely associated with animal liver and it became the root word for \"liver\" in each of these languages: \"foie\" in French, \"hígado\" in Spanish, \"fígado\" in Portuguese, \"fegato\" in Italian, \"fetge\" in Catalan and Occitan and \"ficat\" in Romanian, all meaning \"liver\"; this etymology has been explained in different manners.\n\nAfter the fall of the Roman empire, goose liver temporarily vanished from European cuisine. Some claim that Gallic farmers preserved the foie gras tradition until the rest of Europe rediscovered it centuries later, but the medieval French peasant's food animals were mainly pig and sheep. Others claim that the tradition was preserved by the Jews, who learned the method of enlarging a goose's liver during the Roman colonisation of Judea or earlier from Egyptians. The Jews carried this culinary knowledge as they migrated farther north and west to Europe.\n\nThe Judaic dietary law, Kashrut, forbade lard as a cooking medium, and butter, too, was proscribed as an alternative since Kashrut also prohibited mixing meat and dairy products. Jewish cuisine used olive oil in the Mediterranean, and sesame oil in Babylonia, but neither cooking medium was readily available in Western and Central Europe, so poultry fat (known in Yiddish as \"schmaltz\"), which could be abundantly produced by overfeeding geese, was substituted in their stead. The delicate taste of the goose's liver was soon appreciated; Hans Wilhelm Kirchhof of Kassel wrote in 1562 that the Jews raise fat geese and particularly love their livers. Some Rabbis were concerned that eating forcibly overfed geese violated Jewish food restrictions. The Chatam Sofer, Rabbi Moses Sofer, contended that it is not a forbidden food (treyf) as none of its limbs are damaged. This matter remained a debated topic in Jewish dietary law until the Jewish taste for goose liver declined in the 19th century. Another kashrut matter, still a problem today, is that even properly slaughtered and inspected meat must be drained of blood before being considered fit to eat. Usually, salting achieves that; however, as liver is regarded as \"(almost) wholly blood\", broiling is the only way of kashering. Properly broiling a foie gras while preserving its delicate taste is difficult, and therefore rarely practiced. Even so, there are restaurants in Israel that offer grilled goose foie gras. Foie Gras also bears resemblance to the Jewish food staple, chopped liver.\nAppreciation of fattened goose liver spread to gastronomes outside the Jewish community, who could buy in the local Jewish ghetto of their cities. In 1570, Bartolomeo Scappi, chef de cuisine to Pope Pius V, published his cookbook \"Opera\", wherein he describes that \"the liver of [a] domestic goose raised by the Jews is of extreme size and weighs [between] two and three pounds.\" In 1581, Marx Rumpolt of Mainz, chef to several German nobles, published the massive cookbook \"Ein Neu Kochbuch\", describing that the Jews of Bohemia produced livers weighing more than three pounds; he lists recipes for it—including one for goose liver mousse. János Keszei, chef to the court of Michael Apafi, the prince of Transylvania, included foie gras recipes in his 1680 cookbook \"A New Book About Cooking\", instructing cooks to \"envelop the goose liver in a calf's thin skin, bake it and prepare [a] green or [a] brown sauce to accompany it. I used goose liver fattened by Bohemian Jews, its weight was more than three pounds. You may also prepare a mush of it.\"\n\nIn the 21st century, France is by far the largest producer and consumer of foie gras, though it is produced and consumed in several other countries worldwide, particularly in some other European nations, the United States, and China. Approximately 30,000 people are members of the French foie gras industry, with 90% of them residing in the Périgord (Dordogne), the Aquitaine régions in the southwest, and Alsace région in the east. The European Union recognizes the foie gras produced according to traditional farming methods (\"label rouge\") in southwestern France with a geographical indication of provenance.\n\nHungary is the world's second-largest foie gras (\"libamáj\") producer and the largest exporter. France is the principal market for Hungarian foie gras – mainly exported raw. Approximately 30,000 Hungarian goose farmers are dependent on the foie gras industry. French food companies spice, process, and cook the foie gras so it may be sold as a French product in its domestic and export markets.\n\nSome countries have produced foie gras only sporadically in the past. For example, in 1996, Turkey had a peak year of production with 20 tonnes of foie gras valued at US$39,000 being exported.\n\nIn 2005, France produced 18,450 tonnes of foie gras (78.5% of the world's estimated total production of 23,500 tonnes) of which 96% was duck liver and 4% goose liver. Total French consumption of foie gras in this year was 19,000 tonnes. In 2005, Hungary, the world's second-largest foie gras producer exported 1,920 tonnes and Bulgaria produced 1,500 tons of foie gras.\n\nThe demand for foie gras in the Far East is such that China has become a sizeable producer. Madagascar is a small but rapidly growing producer of high quality foie gras.\nIn 2011 in Bulgaria (which started production in 1960), 5 million mule ducks were raised for foie gras on 800 farms. This figure makes Bulgaria the second largest producer in Europe.\n\nIn 2012, France produced around 19,000 tonnes of foie gras representing 75% of the world's production in that year. This required the force-feeding of around 38 million ducks and geese. World production in 2015 is estimated as 27,000 tonnes.\n\nIn 2014, the whole of the EU produced approximately 25,000 tonnes of foie gras – 23,000 tonnes of duck foie gras and 2,000 tonnes of goose foie gras. The same year, France was producing 72% of world foie gras production of which 97% was from ducks.\nIn 2015, it was reported that in France, sales of foie gras may be waning and an OpinionWay poll found that 47% of the French population supported a ban on force-feeding.\n\nIn 2016, it was reported that France produces an estimated 75% of the world's foie gras and southwestern France produces approximately 70% of that total. In 2016, it can retail for upwards of $65 a pound.\n\nIn late 2015, there were several outbreaks of the highly contagious H5N1 bird flu in France, which escalated during 2016. This led to Algeria, China, Egypt, Japan, Morocco, South Korea, Thailand and Tunisia banning French poultry exports, including foie gras, and France to initiate increased bio-security protocols which will cost an estimated 220 million euros. One of these measures was the halting of production in southwestern France from early April, 2016 for an anticipated period of three months to reduce the spread of the virus. Exports of foie gras from France are expected to decrease from 4,560 tonnes in 2015 to 3,160 tonnes in 2016.\n\nIn the United States, the largest producer is Hudson Valley Foie Gras, which uses approximately 350,000 ducks each year.\n\nIn France, foie gras exists in different, legally defined presentations, ordered by expense:\n\n\nAdditionally, there is \"pâté de foie gras\", \"mousse de foie gras\" (either must contain 50% or more foie gras), \"parfait de foie gras\" (must contain 75% or more foie gras); and other preparations (no legal obligation established).\n\nFully cooked preparations are generally sold in either glass containers or metal cans for long-term preservation. Whole, fresh foie gras is usually unavailable in France outside the Christmas period, except in some producers' markets in the producing regions. Frozen whole foie gras sometimes is sold in French supermarkets.\n\nWhole foie gras is readily available from gourmet retailers in Canada, the United States, Hungary, Argentina and regions with a sizeable market for the product. In US, raw foie gras is classified as Grade A, B or C. Grade A is typically the highest in fat and especially suited for low-temperature preparation, because the veins are relatively few and the resulting terrine will be more aesthetically appealing because it displays little blood. Grade B is accepted for higher temperature preparation, because the higher proportion of protein gives the liver more structure after being seared. Grade C livers are generally reserved for making sauces as well as other preparations where a higher proportion of blood-filled veins will not impair the appearance of the dish.\n\nTraditionally, foie gras was produced from special breeds of geese. However, by 2004, geese accounted for less than 10% of the total global foie gras production and by 2014 only 5% of total French production. Goose breeds used in modern foie gras production are primarily the grey Landes goose (\"Anser anser\") and the Toulouse goose.\n\nIn 2016, Hungary was producing 80% of the world's goose foie gras, however, production rates are likely to drop in 2017 due to outbreaks of bird flu.\n\nIn 2014, ducks accounted for 95% of foie gras production. The breeds primarily used are the Muscovy duck (\"Cairina moschata\") (also called the Barbary duck) and the hybrid cross of a male Muscovy duck and a female Pekin duck (\"Anas platyrhynchos domestica\") called the Mulard duck. This hybrid is sterile and is therefore sometimes referred to as a \"mule\" duck. Mulards are estimated to account for about 35% of all foie gras consumed in the US. About 95% of duck foie gras production from France comes from force fed Mulards and the remaining 5% from the Muscovy duck.\nAfter hatching, the Mulard ducklings are sexed. Males put on more weight than females, so the females are slaughtered, sometimes in an industrial macerator. Up to 40 million female ducks may be killed in this way. The remains of female ducklings are later used in cat food, fertilisers and in the pharmaceutical industry.\n\nThe ideology behind foie gras production is the ability that some waterfowl have to expand their esophagus and to gain weight, particularly in the liver, in preparation for migration. Unlike many birds, geese and ducks lack a crop. In the wild, esophageal dilation allows them to swallow large foodstuffs, such as a whole fish, for later digestion. Wild geese may consume 300 grams of protein and another 800 grams of grasses per day. Farmed geese allowed to graze on carrots adapt to eating 100 grams of protein, but may consume up to 2500 grams of the carrots per day. The increasing amount of feed given prior to force-feeding and during the force-feeding itself cause expansion of the lower part of the esophagus.\n\nThe pre-force feeding phase consists of three stages.\n\nThe next production phase, which the French call \"gavage\" or \"finition d'engraissement\", or \"completion of fattening\", involves forced daily ingestion of controlled amounts of feed for 12 to 15 days with ducks and for 15 to 18 days with geese. During this phase, ducks are usually fed twice daily while geese are fed up to three times daily. To facilitate handling of ducks during gavage, these birds are typically housed throughout this phase in individual cages or small group pens.\n\nTypical foie gras production involves force-feeding birds more food than they would eat in the wild, and much more than they would voluntarily eat domestically.\nIn modern production, the bird is typically fed a controlled amount of feed, depending on the stage of the fattening process, the bird's weight, and the amount of feed the bird last ingested. At the start of production, a bird might be fed a dry weight of of food per day and up to (in dry weight) by the end of the process. The actual amount of food force-fed is much greater, because the birds are fed a mash with a composition of about 53% dry and 47% liquid (by weight).\n\nThe feed is administered using a funnel fitted with a long tube (20–30 cm long), which forces the feed into the bird's esophagus. If an auger is used, the feeding takes about 45 to 60 seconds, however, modern systems usually use a tube fed by a pneumatic pump with an operation time of 2 to 3 seconds per duck. During feeding, efforts are made to avoid damaging the bird's esophagus, which could cause injury or death, although researchers have found evidence of inflammation of the walls of the proventriculus after the first session of force-feeding. There is also indication of inflammation of the esophagus in the later stages of fattening. Several studies have also demonstrated that mortality rates can be significantly elevated during the gavage period.\n\nThe feed, usually corn boiled with fat (to facilitate ingestion), deposits large amounts of fat in the liver, thereby producing the buttery consistency sought by some gastronomes.\n\nDucks reared for foie gras are typically slaughtered at 100 days of age and geese at 112 days. At this time, the bird's liver is 6 to 10 times its ordinary size. Storage of fat in the liver produces steatosis of the liver cells.\n\nFattened liver can be produced by alternative methods without gavage, and this is often referred to either as \"fatty goose liver\" or as foie gras (outside France), though it does not conform to the French legal definition. This method involves timing the slaughter to coincide with the winter migration, when livers are naturally fattened.\nThe winner of the Coup de Coeur award at the Salon International d'Alimentation, SIAL 2006, Patería de Sousa produces fattened livers without force-feeding. This has only recently been produced commercially, and is a very small fraction of the market.\n\nProducers outside France do not always force-feed birds to produce fattened livers considered to be foie gras, instead allowing them to eat freely, termed \"ad libitum\". Interest in alternative production methods has grown recently due to ethical concerns in gavage-based foie gras production. Such livers are alternatively termed fatty goose liver, ethical foie gras, or humane foie gras. The British supermarket chain Waitrose also provides a version of ethical foie gras which it calls (and has been trademarked) \"faux gras\". This is not to be confused with the American product by the same name, produced by Regal Vegan, which has the U.S. trademark for \"faux gras\", and is actually a vegan, nut-based spread.\n\nThe term \"ethical foie gras\" or \"humane foie gras\" is also used for gavage-based foie gras production that is more concerned with the animal's welfare (using rubber hoses rather than steel pipes for feeding). Others have expressed skepticism at these claims of humane treatment, as earlier attempts to produce fattened livers without gavage have not produced satisfactory results.\n\nMore radical approaches have been studied. A duck or goose with a ventromedian hypothalamic (VMH) lesion will tend not to feel satiated after eating, and will therefore eat more than a non-lesioned animal. By producing such lesions surgically, it is possible to increase the bird's food consumption when permitted to eat \"ad libitum\", by a factor of more than two.\n\nGenerally, French preparations of foie gras are made over low heat, as fat melts faster from the traditional goose foie gras than the duck foie gras produced in most other parts of the world. American and other New World preparations, typically employing duck foie gras, have more recipes and dish preparations for serving foie gras hot, rather than cool or cold.\n\nIn Hungary, goose foie gras traditionally is fried in goose fat, which is then poured over the foie gras and left to cool; it is also eaten warm, after being fried or roasted, with some chefs smoking the foie gras over a cherry wood fire.\n\nIn other parts of the world foie gras is served in dishes such as foie gras sushi rolls, in various forms of pasta or alongside steak tartare or atop a steak as a garnish.\n\nTraditional low-heat cooking methods result in terrines, \"pâtés\", parfaits, foams and mousses of foie gras, often flavored with truffle, mushrooms or brandy such as cognac or armagnac. These slow-cooked forms of \"foie gras\" are cooled and served at or below room temperature.\n\nIn a very traditional form of terrine, \"au torchon\" (\"in a towel\"), a whole lobe of foie is molded, wrapped in a towel and slow-cooked in a \"bain-marie\". For added flavor (from the Maillard reaction), the liver may be seared briefly over a fire of grape vine clippings (\"sarments\") before slow-cooking in a bain-marie; afterwards, it is pressed served cold, in slices.\n\nRaw foie gras is also cured in salt (\"cru au sel\"), served slightly chilled.\n\nA pastry containing fatty goose liver and other ingredients is known as the \"Strasburg pie\" since Strasbourg was a major producer of foie gras. The pie is mentioned in William Makepeace Thackeray's novel \"Vanity Fair\" as being popular with the diplomatic corps.\n\nGiven the increased internationalization of cuisines and food supply, \"foie gras\" is increasingly found in hot preparations not only in the United States, but in France and elsewhere. Duck foie gras (\"\"foie gras de canard\") has slightly lower fat content and is generally more suitable in texture to cooking at high temperature than is goose foie gras (\"foie gras d'oie\"\"), but chefs have been able to cook goose \"foie gras\" employing similar techniques developed for duck, albeit with more care.\n\nRaw foie gras can be roasted, sauteed, pan-seared (\"poêlé\") or (with care and attention), grilled. As foie gras has high fat content, contact with heat needs to be brief and therefore at high temperature, lest it burn or melt. Optimal structural integrity for searing requires the foie gras to be cut to a thickness between 15 and 25 mm (½ – 1 inch), resulting in a rare, uncooked center. Some chefs prefer not to devein the foie gras, as the veins can help preserve the integrity of the fatty liver. It is increasingly common to sear the \"foie gras\" on one side only, leaving the other side uncooked. Practitioners of molecular gastronomy such as Heston Blumenthal of The Fat Duck restaurant first flash-freeze foie gras in liquid nitrogen as part of the preparation process.\n\nHot foie gras requires minimal spices; typically black pepper, paprika (in Hungary) and salt. Chefs have used fleur de sel as a gourmet seasoning for hot foie gras to add an \"important textural accent\" with its crunch.\n\nFoie gras is a regarded as a gourmet luxury dish. In France, it is mainly consumed on special occasions, such as Christmas or New Year's Eve \"réveillon\" dinners, though the recent increased availability of foie gras has made it a less exceptional dish. In some areas of France \"foie gras\" is eaten year-round.\n\nDuck foie gras is the slightly cheaper and, since a change of production methods in the 1950s to battery, by far the most common kind, particularly in the US. The taste of duck foie gras is often referred to as musky with a subtle bitterness. Goose foie gras is noted for being less gamey and smoother, with a more delicate flavor.\n\nGavage-based foie gras production is controversial due to the animal welfare consequences of the force-feeding procedure, intensive housing and husbandry, an enlarged liver and the potential for being detrimental to human health. Some countries find foie gras to be \"morally objectionable\". One EU committee report noted that up to 1998, there was only a small number of scientific studies on the welfare of birds used for foie gras production, however, the Committee found sufficient evidence to conclude that \"force-feeding, as currently practised, is detrimental to the welfare of the birds.\" The industry repeatedly faces accusations of torture and cruelty.\n\nThe production of foie gras occurs on the argument that migrating wildfowl seasonally eat such that their liver naturally enlarges. However, the bird used predominantly in foie gras production is a hybrid of a male Muscovy duck and a female Pekin duck. It has been noted that the Muscovy duck is non-migratory, and both the Pekin and the mulard hybrid cannot fly. Domestic ducks (including the Pekin) are derived from the mallard duck, which is sometimes migratory and sometimes not. Therefore, although the domestic goose might well be adapted to store food before migration, it is less likely that the Mulard hybrid duck has the same potential.\n\nGeese and ducks show avoidance behaviour (indicating aversion) of the person who feeds them and the feeding procedure. Although an EU committee in 1998 reported seeing this aversion, they noted that at the time, there was no \"conclusive\" scientific evidence on the aversive nature of force-feeding. The AVMA (Animal Welfare Division) when considering foie gras production stated \"The relatively new Mulard breed used in foie gras production seems to be more prone than its parent breeds to fear of people\".\n\nAn EU committee in 1998 reported that there was usually clear evidence of tissue damage in the oesophagus of birds which had been gavage fed, although one 1972 study cited by the report observed no alteration of the oesophageal tissue. More recent scientific studies have shown that the esophagus of birds can be injured or inflamed by gavage feeding.\n\nAfter measuring a range of physiological parameters in male Mulard ducks, it was concluded in one study that the acute stress caused by force feeding is similar at the beginning and end of the commercial production of foie gras. A similar study on Muscovy ducks found that gavage feeding was related to an increase in panting behaviour and serum corticosterone levels, indicating increased stress attributable to this feeding method.\n\nIn France, at the end of 2015, individual cages were prohibited to improve animal welfare. They will be replaced by cages which house 4 to 5 birds.\n\nDuring the force-feeding period, the birds are kept in individual cages, with wire or plastic mesh floors, or sometimes in small groups on slatted floors. Individual caging restricts movements and behaviours by preventing the birds from standing erect, turning around, or flapping their wings. Birds cannot carry out other natural waterfowl behaviours, such as bathing and swimming. Furthermore, ducks and geese are social animals and individual cages prevent such interactions.\n\nDuring the force feeding period, when the birds are not being fed, they are sometimes kept in near darkness; this prevents normal investigatory behaviour and results in poor welfare.\n\nLesions can occur on the sternum of the birds due to necrosis of the skin. This is observed more frequently in birds reared in cages rather than on the floor. The prevalence is higher in Mulard ducks (40–70%) compared to under 6% in Muscovy ducks. This is due to the larger pectoralis profundus major and minor muscles in Muscovy ducks compared to Mulards. The relatively new Mulard breed used in foie gras production seems more prone to developing lesions in the area of the sternum when kept in small cages, and to bone breakage during transport and slaughter.\n\nWhere ducks are fattened in group pens, it has been suggested that the increased effort required to capture and restrain ducks in pens might cause them to experience more stress during force feeding. Injuries and fatalities during transport and slaughter occur in all types of poultry production, however, fattened ducks are more susceptible to conditions such as heat stress.\n\nFoie gras production results in the bird's liver being swollen. In some species of ducks, liver size changes seasonally, increasing by as much as 30 to 50%, with more pronounced changes in females. However, foie gras production enlarges the livers up to 10 times their normal size. This impairs liver function due to obstructing blood flow, and expands the abdomen making it difficult for the birds to breathe. Death occurs if the force-feeding is continued.\n\nThe mortality rate in force-fed birds varies from 2% to 4%, compared with approximately 0.2% in age-matched, non-force-fed drakes. Mortality rates do not differ between the force-feeding period and the previous rearing phase, with both being approximately 2.5%.\n\nThe polarising and controversial nature of foie gras production was identified in a paper that juxtaposed the views of \"foie gras production as the apotheosis of murderous meat production, and those who consider it to be a co-production between humans and animals\".\n\nAnimal rights and welfare advocates such as PETA, Viva!, and the Humane Society of the United States contend that foie gras production methods, and force-feeding in particular, constitute cruel and inhumane treatment of animals.\n\nAn Ipsos MORI poll found that 63% of the UK population would like to see a complete ban on the sale of foie gras in the UK.\n\nIn April–May 2013, an investigator from Mercy for Animals recorded undercover video at Hudson Valley Foie Gras farm in New York state. The video showed workers forcefully pushing tubes down ducks' throats. One worker said of the force-feeding process: \"Sometimes the duck doesn't get up and it dies. There have been times that 20 ducks were killed.\" Hudson Valley operations manager Marcus Henley replied that the farm's mortality statistics are not above average for the poultry industry. Because Hudson Valley provides foie gras to Amazon.com, Mercy for Animals began a campaign urging Amazon to stop selling foie gras, a move that has already been made by Costco, Safeway, and Target.\n\nIn November 2013, the \"Daily Mirror\" published a report based on the video they obtained depicting cruelty towards ducks in a farm owned by French firm Ernest Soulard, which is a supplier to celebrity chef Gordon Ramsay's restaurants. The restaurant chain suspended purchasing from the supplier following the exposé.\n\nThe process of force-feeding can make animals sick by stressing the liver. If the stress is prolonged, excess protein may build up and clump together as amyloids, consumption of which has been found to induce amyloidosis in laboratory mice. It has been hypothesized this may be a route of transmission in humans too and so be a risk for people with inflammatory complaints such as rheumatoid arthritis.\n\nA number of countries and regions have laws against force-feeding or the sale or importation of foie gras, and even where it is legal some retailers have ceased to sell it.\n\nIn 2017, foie gras production was banned in Brussels - the capital of Belgium, which is one of the few remaining countries that produces foie gras.\n\nA more humane version of foie gras was pioneered in the Spanish region of Extremadura, whereby the bird is tricked into preparing for migration rather than force-fed.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11731991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11731991", "title": "Gerry Patrick Hemming", "text": "Gerry Patrick Hemming\n\nGerald Patrick \"Gerry\" Hemming, Jr. (March 1, 1937 – January 28, 2008) was a former U.S. Marine, mercenary and Central Intelligence Agency operative associated with attacks on Cuba in the 1960s.\n\nOne of eleven children, Hemming was born in Los Angeles, California on March 1, 1937. He attended El Monte Union High School in California before joining the United States Marine Corps in 1954.\n\nHemming left the Marines in October 1958 and the following year traveled to Cuba where he gave help to Fidel Castro and his revolutionary forces. In January 1959 Hemming met Lee Harvey Oswald at the Atsugi Naval Air Station in Japan. Hemming complained that Oswald boasted too much about his inside knowledge. For instance, upon their first meeting; Oswald tried to impress Hemming by showing off how much he knew about Hemming's background and mission - somebody in an intelligence capacity had briefed Lee Harvey Oswald, and Oswald sort of teased Hemming with this information. So, Hemming did not particularly enjoy the company of Oswald from the start.\n\nLike many young Americans, including Frank Sturgis, David Ferrie and Harry Dean, Hemming joined an American effort to overthrow the Batista regime through the efforts of Fidel Castro. When Castro proved to be a Communist, and subjected some Americans to firing squads, most Americans \"switched sides\" and this included Gerry Patrick Hemming. who, in 1961, established Interpen as a means to attack and weaken the Castro regime. Other members of Interpen reportedly included Loran Hall, Roy Hargraves, William Seymour, Lawrence Howard, Steve Wilson, Howard K. Davis, Edwin Collins, James Arthur Lewis, Dennis Harber, Bill Dempsey, Dick Whatley, Ramigo Arce, Ronald Augustinovich, Joe Garman, Edmund Kolby, Ralph Schlafter, Manuel Aguilar and Oscar Del Pinto.\n\nHemming was a leader of Interpen, or \"Intercontinental Penetration Force\", a group of anti-Castro guerrillas who trained at No Name Key in the early 1960s.\n\nDeclassified FBI files show that the agency had an informer within Interpen. His code name was MM T-1. In one document dated June 16, 1961, it said that MM T-1 had \"been connected with Cuban revolutionary activities for the past three years\". One document dated May 12, 1961, claims that Allen Lushane of Miami \"had made a trip to Texas to recruit Americans for some future military action against the Government of Cuba\". The document adds that the \"first training camp was established by Gerald Patrick Hemming with Dick Watley and Ed Colby running the camp.\" In an interview that he gave to John M. Newman on January 6, 1995, Hemming claimed that the FBI informer was Steve Wilson.\n\nThis group of experienced soldiers were involved in training members of the anti-Castro groups funded by the Central Intelligence Agency in Florida in the early 1960s. When the government began to crack down on raids from Florida in 1962, Interpen set up a new training camp in New Orleans, Louisiana. When this work came to an end in 1964 Hemming was employed in the construction industry in Miami.\n\nAccording to Victor Marchetti, he was also Lee Harvey Oswald's case officer at then-secret NAF Atsugi.\n\nGerry Hemming has granted long interviews with several writers working on the assassination of John F. Kennedy. These include Anthony Summers (\"Conspiracy\"), Noel Twyman (\"Bloody Treason\") and John M. Newman (\"Oswald and the CIA\"). Some researchers believe that a combination of Interpen members and anti-Castro Cubans were involved in the assassination of John F. Kennedy. This included Hemming, James Arthur Lewis, Roy Hargraves, Edwin Collins, Steve Wilson, David Sanchez Morales, Herminio Diaz Garcia, Tony Cuesta, Eugenio Martinez, Virgilio Gonzalez, Felipe Vidal Santiago and William \"Rip\" Robertson.\n\nGerry Hemming was arrested on August 23, 1976 for the illegal transfer of a silencer and drug smuggling. It seems that this was the point that he began talking about his past work with the CIA. He told one reporter: \"All of a sudden they're accusing me of conspiracy to import marijuana and cocaine. Hey, what about all the other things I've been into for the last 15 years, lets talk about them. Let's talk about the Martin Luther King thing, let's talk about Don Freed, Le Coubre, nigger-killers in bed with the Mafia, the Mafia in bed with the FBI, and the goddamn CIA in bed with all of them. Let's talk about all the people I dirtied up for them over the years.\"\n\nHemming was convicted by a Miami jury of conspiracy to import marijuana. In 1978 he was sentenced to six months in prison by U.S. District Judge William Hoeveler. Hemming was released on appeal bond and the conviction was later overturned.\n\nIn August, 1978, Victor Marchetti published an article about the assassination of John F. Kennedy in the Liberty Lobby newspaper, \"The Spotlight\". In the article Marchetti argued that the House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) had obtained a 1966 CIA memo that revealed Hemming, E. Howard Hunt, and Frank Sturgis had been involved in the plot to kill Kennedy. Marchetti's article also included a story that Marita Lorenz had provided information on this plot.\n\nOn April 14, 1980, Hemming was arrested and charged with drug trafficking. He was held on $200,000 bond in Palm Beach County, Florida. He claimed that he had not smuggled Quaaludes, but was establishing his bona fides with drug traffickers so he could penetrate their networks. Hemming told Alan J. Weberman that he was working for Mitchell Werbell III and Lucien Conein. Hemming was sentenced to 35 years in prison with a minimum mandatory sentence of three years but the conviction was later overturned on appeal.\n\nHunt decided to take legal action against the Liberty Lobby. In December, 1981, he was awarded $650,000 in damages. Liberty Lobby appealed to the United States Court of Appeals. It was claimed that Hunt's attorney, Ellis Rubin, had offered a clearly erroneous instruction as to the law of defamation. The three-judge panel agreed and the case was retried. This time Mark Lane defended the Liberty Lobby against Hunt's action.\n\nLane eventually discovered Marchetti’s sources. The main source was William Corson. It also emerged that Marchetti had also consulted James Angleton and Alan J. Weberman before publishing the article. As a result of obtaining depositions from David Atlee Phillips, Richard Helms, G. Gordon Liddy, Stansfield Turner, and Marita Lorenz, plus a skillful cross-examination by Lane of E. Howard Hunt, the jury decided in January, 1985, that Marchetti had not been guilty of libel when he suggested that John F. Kennedy had been assassinated by people working for the CIA. Lane states that during a later meeting they had, Hemming corroborated the details of the assassination which were outlined during the trial.\n\n"}
{"id": "33388906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33388906", "title": "Graz Opera", "text": "Graz Opera\n\nGraz Opera (German: Oper Graz) is an Austria opera house and opera company based in Graz. The orchestra of the opera house also performs concerts as the Graz Philharmonic Orchestra (\"Grazer Philharmonisches Orchester\").\n\nOpera had been performed in Graz since the 17th century, originally in a converted coach house on the Habsburg royal estates. The National Theatre (Schauspielhaus Graz), constructed in 1776, saw many early performances of Mozart's operas, although today (after many reconstructions) it is devoted to the performances of plays.\n\nThe city's first dedicated opera house and the immediate predecessor of the Graz Opera was the Thalia Theatre, adapted in 1864 from an old circus hall. Plans for a new theatre suitable to the growing size and importance of the city and intended to be a \"new home for German art\" were first proposed in 1887.\n\nDesigned by Ferdinand Fellner and Herman Helmer in the neo-baroque style, the Graz Opera was inaugurated in 1899 with a performance of Schiller's play \"William Tell\", followed a few days later by Wagner's opera \"Lohengrin\". The building suffered damage during World War II bombings but was repaired and re-opened after the war. Between 1983 and 1985, it underwent a $15 million renovation which saw the installation of modern equipment and facilities without significantly changing the original exterior and interior of the building.\n\nThe current \"Intendantin\" of the company is Nora Schmid, since 1 January 2015, in succession to Elisabeth Sobotka. Past general music directors (GMD) of the company have included Niksa Bareza (1981-1990), Philippe Jordan (2001-2004), Johannes Fritzsch (2006-2013), and Dirk Kaftan (2013-2017). In the autumn of 2016, Oksana Lyniv made her first guest-conducting appearance with the company, in a production of \"La traviata\". In February 2017, the company announced the appointment of Lyniv as its next GMD, effective with the 2017-2018 season. Lyniv is the first female conductor to be named GMD of Graz Opera.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7629569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7629569", "title": "Hope Theatre", "text": "Hope Theatre\n\nThe Hope Theatre was one of the theatres built in and around London for the presentation of plays in English Renaissance theatre, comparable to the Globe, the Curtain, the Swan, and other famous theatres of the era.\n\nThe Hope was built in 1613–14 by Philip Henslowe and a partner, Jacob Meade, on the site of the old Beargarden on the Bankside in Southwark, on the south side of the River Thames — at that time, outside the legal bounds of the City of London. Henslowe had had a financial interest in the Beargarden (the ring for bear-baiting and similar \"animal sports\") since 1594; on 29 August 1613 he contracted with the carpenter Gilbert Katherens to tear down the Beargarden, and to build a theatre in its place, for a fee of £360. (After the Hope was built, it was often still called the \"Beargarden\" in common parlance and in the extant documentary record.)\n\nConstruction was slow, taking over a year. The Hope may have been delayed because the Globe was being rebuilt at the same time — it had burned down on 29 June 1613 — and two such large jobs, done simultaneously, may have taxed the personnel and resources of the \"construction industry\" of Southwark, such as it was at the time. (The Hope was located just to the northwest of the Globe, so that the two projects could have competed directly for men and materiel.) Also, the Hope was likely a more complex construction job, since it was designed as a dual-purpose facility from the start. The contract calls for a:\n\nSo, the Hope would have required facilities for keeping animals that the Globe did not need.\n\nBecause Henslowe's original contract with Katherens survives, we know something about the specifics of the construction of the Hope, more so than for other theatres of the period. The contract states that the Hope must be built according to the pattern of the Swan, with two staircases on the outside, and the \"heavens\" built over the stage, without posts or supports on the stage to disrupt the audience's view — a somewhat different concept from current ideas about the theatres of the period. (The Hope's stage had to be removable, to make room for the \"Beares and Bulls.\")\n\nThe Hope was completed and opened to the public in October 1614. On 31 October, Ben Jonson's \"Bartholomew Fair\" was acted in the Hope by the Lady Elizabeth's Men. In the printed text of his play, Jonson describes the Hope as being \"as dirty as Smithfield and stinking every whit\" — Smithfield being the district of London dominated by the livestock market and slaughterhouses.\n\nOn Henslowe's death in 1616, his son-in-law Edward Alleyn inherited Henslowe's share in the Hope, which Alleyn then leased to Meade. The Hope remained an active facility for the coming decades. In its early years the Hope was used more for playing than animal baiting — the days devoted to dramas outnumbered those devoted to animal sports by three to one. Lady Elizabeth's Men were joined by Prince Charles's Men around 1615; when the Lady Elizabeth's company left to tour the provinces in 1616, Prince's Charles's Men remained for another three years. Yet the mix of the two activities was never easy, and the actors grew more unhappy with the arrangements at the Hope as time went on. The actors left for the Cockpit Theatre in 1619, and the Hope was thereafter used for bear and bull baiting, prizefighting, fencing contests, and similar entertainments. \n\nThe Corporation of London outlawed both play-acting and bear-baiting at the start of the English Civil War in 1642. Animal sports were suppressed by the Puritan regime in 1656. The last seven surviving bears were shot to death by a company of soldiers; the dogs and the cocks kept there were also killed. (The Commonwealth commander Thomas Pride was responsible for this action; in 1680 — 24 years after the bears' deaths, and 22 years after Pride's — an anonymous satirist composed Pride's confessional \"Last Speech...being touched in Conscience for his inhuman Murder of the Bears in the Beargarden\".)\n\nBy one (questionable) account, the Hope Theatre was \"pulled down to make tenements, by Thomas Walker, a petticoat maker in Canon Street,\" on Tuesday, 25 March 1656. Yet the practice of animal sports resumed at the Restoration in 1660; if the Hope had been torn down, a replacement facility was soon established. The Diary of Samuel Pepys records a visit Pepys and his wife made to the Beargarden on 14 August 1666. The last word of animal sports at the facility dates from 12 April 1682. By 1714, a development called Bear Garden Square had been built on the site of the old Hope.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3487221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3487221", "title": "IMCexpo", "text": "IMCexpo\n\nThe IMC Expo is described as \"a hybrid technology tradeshow, art exhibition, educational symposium, and networking forum\". The IMC Expo is produced by the new media design firm StudioIMC in association with the Interactive Telecommunications Program (ITP) at Tisch School of the Arts, as well as other partner organizations.\n\nThe IMC Expo mission is to foster a growing network of diverse and forward-thinking artists, engineers, designers, scientists and institutions, with the common goal of promoting interdisciplinary collaboration and innovation.\n\nAn IMCexpo in 2005 was held at the Chelsea Art Museum and featured speakers like DJ Spooky, Michael Naimark, Natalie Jeremijenko, Clay Shirky and other visionaries.\n\nAn IMCexpo in 2009 was held at the Chelsea Art Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "32466694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32466694", "title": "Jaipur Shopping Festival", "text": "Jaipur Shopping Festival\n\nJaipur Shopping Festival is an annual shopping festival conducted each year in the month of September and October in Jaipur, India.\n"}
{"id": "12463460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12463460", "title": "Job fraud", "text": "Job fraud\n\nJob fraud refers to fraudulent or deceptive activity or representation on the part of an employee or prospective employee toward an employer. It is not to be confused with \"employment fraud\", where an employer scams job seekers or fails to pay wages for work performed. There are several types of job frauds that employees or potential employees commit against employers. While some may be illegal under jurisdictional laws, others do not violate law but may be held by the employer against the employee or applicant.\n\nRésumé fraud or \"application fraud\" refers to any act that involves intentionally providing fictitious, exaggerated, or otherwise misleading information on a job application or résumé in hopes of persuading a potential employer to hire an applicant for a job for which they may be unqualified or less qualified than other applicants. Depending on the nature of the offense, the type of job, and the jurisdiction where it occurs, such an act may or may not be a violation of criminal law. In any case, knowingly providing inaccurate information to an employer or potential employer, if discovered by the employer, is almost always grounds for immediate dismissal from the job or else denial of that job.\n\nAlmost half (48%) of organizations with fewer than 100 staff experienced problems with vetted employees.\n\n39% of UK organizations have experienced a situation where their vetting procedures have allowed an employee to be hired who was later found to have lied or misrepresented themselves in their application. \n\nYounger, more junior people are more likely to have a discrepancy on their CV. Someone in a junior administrative position is 23% more likely to have a discrepancy on their CV than in a managerial role. An applicant aged under 20 is 26% more likely to have a discrepancy than a 51- to 60-year-old.\n\nNeither men nor women are statistically more likely to have a discrepancy on their CV (X-squared = 0.56, df = 1, p-value = 0.46): 24% of applications submitted by women have a discrepancy compared to 26% of those for men.\n\nGraduates have marginally fewer discrepancies: 13% of their CVs contain a discrepancy compared to 17% of non-graduates.\n"}
{"id": "31351422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31351422", "title": "Jordan Lead Codices", "text": "Jordan Lead Codices\n\nThe Jordan Lead Codices, (or the Jordanian Codices), are a collection of codices allegedly found in a cave in Jordan and first publicized in March 2011. A number of scholars and a November 2012 regional BBC News investigation have pronounced them fakes. In December 2016, a radioactivity test performed at the University of Surrey's Ion Beam Centre confirmed the old age of the lead used, but not the inscriptions. As of 2017, both the Israeli antiquities authority and the Jordanian archaeological department regard them as forgeries.\n\nOn 3 March 2011 \"The Jewish Chronicle\" ran an interview with a metallurgist named Robert Feather, who it stated was trying to authenticate a collection of 20 metal books which could be linked to the Kabbalah. These items were in the possession of an Israeli Bedouin farmer named Hassan Saeda, who claimed that they had been found by his great-grandfather in a cave a century ago. It added that a piece of leather from the find had already been carbon dated to 2,000 years ago. The article reported that the Israel Antiquities Authority (IAA) considered them inauthentic and worthless, saying the books are a \"mixture of incompatible periods and styles without any connection or logic. Such forged motifs can be found in their thousands in the antiquities markets of Jordan and elsewhere in the Middle East\". It added that Professor André Lemaire, an epigrapher and director of studies at the École pratique des hautes études, said the inscriptions he has seen make no sense and that it was \"a question apparently of sophisticated fakes\".\n\nOn 22 March 2011 David Elkington issued a press release stating that a hoard of ancient books made of lead and copper, together with other artefacts, probably dating from the 1st century AD, had been found in Jordan, and that they might predate the writings of St. Paul and that \"leading academics\" believed they might be as important as the Dead Sea Scrolls. Elkington also stated that the items were discovered 5 years previously in a cave by a Jordanian Bedouin and smuggled into Israel, where they were at risk of sale on the black market or of destruction. The BBC, the \"Daily Mail\" and other media outlets quickly picked up the story.\n\nElkington stated that the find consisted of \"up to 70 ring-bound books (codices) made of lead and copper. Many of them are sealed on all sides. Scrolls, tablets and other artefacts, including an incense bowl, were also found at the same site. Some of the lead pages are written in a form of archaic Hebrew script with ancient messianic symbols. Some of the writing appears to be in a form of code.\" In the press release he stated that his team included biblical scholars Margaret Barker and Philip R. Davies.\n\nThe BBC version of the story stated that the codices had been found in a cave in Jordan sometime between 2005 and 2007.\n\n\"The Daily Telegraph\" added that metallurgical analysis on the books, and carbon dating on a piece of leather found with the collection, suggested that the books could be about 2,000 years old, although it also questioned whether the find was authentic. Elkington, described as a \"scholar of ancient religious archaeology who is heading a British team trying to get the lead books safely into a Jordanian museum\", claimed that they could be \"the major discovery of Christian history\", and the director of the Jordan's Department of Antiquities, Ziad al-Saad, said that the books might have been made by followers of Jesus in the few decades immediately following his crucifixion.\n\nThe BBC article said that the books consist of between 5-15 leaves or plates each, about the size of a credit card, made of lead and copper, and bound together with lead rings on one side. Many of the books are also sealed with rings on the remaining three sides. Elkington reported that \"In the upper square [of one of the book covers] we have the seven-branch menorah\", and the text is said to be in archaic Hebrew script (Paleo Hebrew), and some in \"code\".\n\nDavies noted the presence of a cross, tomb, and city of Jerusalem depicted in the books.\n\nA news report described Barker as believing that if the artefacts are genuine, they could be Christian texts from as early as 33 AD. A BBC report stated that a line has been translated from the text as \"I shall walk uprightly\".\n\nThe press release and the BBC report on 29 March 2011 indicated that the Jordanian government would make a claim for the ownership of the collection under the treasure-trove statutes of Jordanian law.\n\nA number of experts urged scepticism until further investigation could be conducted.\n\nOn 31 March 2011, a letter was published online by Daniel C. Peterson which had been written in 2010 by Elkington. The letter was to Oxford academic Peter Thonemann, sending images of a \"copper tablet\" and asking for information regarding the Greek text inscribed on it. Thonemann replied that the item was a modern forgery, created during the last 50 years in Jordan, because the text copied a truncated tombstone inscription (AD 108/9) from the Archaeological Museum of Amman. Thonemann said that he \"would stake [his] career\" on his belief that the material had been faked.Professor Jim Davila also published Elkington's letter and Thonemann's reply. In his letter to Thonemann in 2010, Elkington said that he had been told that the codices were from Egypt, not that the material was from Jordan as stated in his press release.\n\nAlso on 2 April 2011, historian William J. Hamblin called into question the Jesus image on the tablet, stating it looked a great deal like images of Helios also found on ancient coins.\n\nOn 3 April 2011, \"The Mail on Sunday\" published an interview with Hassan Saeda, whom it described as a Bedouin trucker, aged 37, including extra images from the material and a story of how they came into his possession. The paper made a claim that a face on one plate \"could be\" the face of Jesus, but gave no authority for it. On the same day the \"Sunday Telegraph\" published an interview with Elkington. An article in \"The Daily Telegraph\" on the same day stated that David Elkington was also known as Paul Elkington, and had a book on the codices which literary agent Curtis Brown would be trying to market to publishers at the London Book Fair on 11 April.\n\nOn 4 April 2011, Philip R. Davies posted a statement on Sheffield's Biblical Studies blog suggesting that, while he recognized that the images were modern, the codices were probably not a hoax nor \"forgeries\". On the same day an unconfirmed report appeared, dated to 3 April, on the MEMRI Web site quoting Ziyad Al-Sa'd, director-general of Jordan's antiquities authority, as saying that the items were found in Jordan and sold on the black market to an \"Israeli antiquities dealer\". There was no indication of whether Hassan Saeda was meant here. Questions were also raised by Steve Caruso, an Aramaic translator, about the authenticity of the script used on the plates.\n\nRobert Deutsch weighed in on 5 April, arguing that the tablets lacked patina and corrosion and, along with others, he noted that all the iconography and script appeared to come directly from coins dating to multiple periods (Hellenistic, Hasmonean, and Bar Kokhba) in antiquity.\n\nOn 6 April 2011 Peter Thonemann repeated his statements about a letter from Elkington in 2010 in \"The Times Literary Supplement\". On 6 April \"The Jordan Times\" published an article describing the codices as a collection of 2,000-year-old manuscripts. On 6 April Dr. James E. Deitrick suggested that the image on one of the lead plates is a replica of a 3rd-century mosaic portrait dubbed \"The Mona Lisa of the Galilee.\"\n\nOn 9 April Prof. Jim Davila published the following summary on his PaleoJudaica blog:\n\nOn 11 April the \"Daily Express\" reported Thonemann's comments together with a response by David Elkington that Thonemann was not a biblical scholar but a Greek scholar. Also on 11 April, LiveScience reported that the letter forms were a mixture of old Aramaic and much younger scripts, and that the mixture indicated a modern forgery.\n\nOn 27 April a report appeared on Yahoo! News via the Associated Press that the Jordanian police had seized seven metal codices. Further details appeared in \"The Jordan Times\", with further claims.\n\nIn the July 2011 issue of \"Palestine Exploration Quarterly\", Philip R. Davies published an editorial surveying some of the information surrounding the tablets, urging caution and the need for further investigation.\n\nOn 26 November 2012, BBC News conducted a short investigation about the authenticity of the codices. This was conducted as a short 13 minute segment of \"Inside Out West\" (26/11/12) accompanied by a written BBC News article entitled \"Jordan Codices 'expert' David Elkington's claims queried\". The programme initially focused on the codices' authenticity with Peter Thonemann again affirming that \"I'm as certain as it is possible to be that this entire body of codices are modern fakes. I would stake my academic reputation on it\" adding that \"all of the codices that have appeared in the media in the past year or so are products of the same modern workshop — they’ve all sorts of similarities in style, fabric, and content. It seems absolutely clear that every single one of these documents is a modern fake\". A spokesman for the Israeli Antiquities Authority (IAA) noted, \"They were shown to experts on the period; all the experts absolutely doubted their authenticity.\" Author and metals expert Robert Feather was also sceptical.\n\nThe BBC \"Inside Out\" programme shifted focus onto whether David Elkington was the right person to be testing the authenticity of the codices, analysing the true intentions, history and qualifications of the \"self styled\" academic. It emerged that David Elkington is not an academic and has \"No recognised qualifications in the field\" although previously using the title of Professor.\nIt also emerged that Elkington is \"using the codices to raise money to support him in his work\" from supporters including Princess Elizabeth of Yugoslavia who has donated tens of thousands of pounds to Elkington. It also stated that Elkington plans to release a book and create a film based upon the codices and that \"over the years he’s taken thousands of pounds as investment to make a film based on his theories\".\n\nIn March 2015 the start of the Centre for the Study of the Jordanian Lead Books, a limited not-for-profit company, was announced under the aegis of Richard Chartres, Bishop of London. The board is chaired by Margaret Barker and includes two politicians, Sir Tony Baldry and Tom Spencer. Other people involved include Professor Robert Hayward, of Durham University and Professor Ziad Al Saad as co-chairs of the “evaluation panel” and Professor Philip Davies of the University of Sheffield, Matthew Hood, Professor Bernhard Lang, Professor Yuri Stoyanov, and Samuel Zinner as other members of the evaluation panel. The centre disclaims any connection to David Elkington though his wife, Jennifer Elkington was a board member for one day.\n\nOn 9 March 2017, the Jordanian department of antiquities issued a statement criticizing David Elkington's activity in the country after the Ion Beam Centre's results. The department said that the information Elkington was promoting on local media and at local universities was inaccurate and lacked objectivity, and that there was no evidence to support the codices' authenticity. The Jordan Times reported that The Elkingtons still maintain that the codices are credible and are 2000 years old.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2100784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2100784", "title": "Khedivial Opera House", "text": "Khedivial Opera House\n\nThe Khedivial Opera House or Royal Opera House ( / ALA-LC: \"Dār Awbirā al-Khudaywī\") was an opera house in Cairo, Egypt, the oldest opera house in all of Africa. It was inaugurated on 1 November 1869 and burned down on 28 October 1971.\n\nThe opera house was built on the orders of the Khedive Ismail to celebrate the opening of the Suez Canal. The architects Pietro Avoscani (from Livorno) and Rossi designed the building. It seated approximately 850 people and was made mostly of wood. It was located between the districts of Azbakeya and Ismailyya in Egypt's capital city.\n\nVerdi's opera \"Rigoletto\" was the first opera performed at the opera house on 1 November 1869. Ismail planned a grander exhibition for his new theatre. After months of delay due to the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian War, Verdi's new opera, \"Aida\", received its world premiere at the Khedivial Opera House on 24 December 1871.\n\nIn the early morning hours of 28 October 1971, the opera house burned to the ground. The all-wooden building was quickly consumed, and only two statues made by Mohamed Hassan survived. \n\nAfter the original opera house was destroyed, Cairo was without an opera house for nearly two decades until the opening of the new Cairo Opera House in 1988.\n\nThe site of the Khedivial Opera House has been rebuilt into a multi-story concrete car garage. The square (to the south of Al Ataba metro station) overlooking the building's location, is still called Opera Square (Meidan El Opera)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50761409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50761409", "title": "List of clothing-free events", "text": "List of clothing-free events\n\nThe following is a list of nude events (clothing-free events) where people can be naked in public:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57974879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57974879", "title": "List of performances by Margot Fonteyn", "text": "List of performances by Margot Fonteyn\n\nDame Margot Fonteyn, DBE (18 May 1919 – 21 February 1991), stage name of Margaret Evelyn de Arias, was an English ballerina. She spent her entire career as a dancer with the Royal Ballet, eventually being appointed Prima Ballerina Assoluta of the company by Queen Elizabeth. She joined the Vic-Wells Ballet School at the age of 14 and from 1935 was the prima ballerina of the company, which would later be called the Sadler's Wells Ballet and the Royal Ballet. In 1959, though still tied to the Royal Ballet, she was allowed to perform as a freelance dancer to enable her work as a guest dancer with various international companies. Though she officially retired in 1979, she occasionally appeared as a dancer through the late-1980s.\n\nUnless otherwise stated, performances occurred at the Royal Opera House in Covent Garden, London. The list is incomplete.\n\n"}
{"id": "20120645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20120645", "title": "List of road protests in the UK and Ireland", "text": "List of road protests in the UK and Ireland\n\nThis article lists individual current and past Road protests in the United Kingdom and in Ireland.\n\nOn 1 February 2015 the protest group 'Rising Up' occupied land at Stapleton Allotments and Smallholdings, the planned site for a new motorway bus junction as part of the Bristol Metrobus North Fringe to Hengrove Project (NFHP). Building the junction and associated roads will result in a loss of Green Belt land, loss of long-held allotments (albeit with new laid plots being provided), and loss of smallholdings on some of the best soils in the country. The protesters claim that the junction is unnecessary and that buses could be routed via a suitably modified Junction 1 of the M32 at much less cost and with no loss of valuable growing land.\n\nKilkenny Central Access Scheme (CAS), previously Kilkenny Inner Relief Road Scheme, is sections of new road, improvement of existing roads and junctions, and a new River Nore bridge crossing, with provisions for footpaths and cycle lanes throughout. CAS comprises 4.5 kilometers of single carriageway road that is 7.3 metres wide.\n\nThe proposed route dissects the medieval core of the old Irishtown of Kilkenny, one of the most historic quarters of the city.\n\nThe campaign group called \"Complete Kilkenny Ring Road as a priority over the CAS\" or CKRR is holding demonstrations to gain further support for a call to rethink the CAS and demand to complete the outer ring road around Kilkenny. Several of Kilkenny’s leading figures in the areas of tourism, heritage and archaeology – as well as local residents – have come out strongly against the imminent demolition of a number of historic buildings and the altering of one of the city’s oldest streetscapes.\n\nThe Highways Agency wishes to increase capacity on the busy section of the A14 between Ellington and Fen Ditton. to reduce congestion and improve safety\n\nThe \"Offords A14 Action Group\" formed to oppose the proposed route (the \"Orange route\") for the scheme, favouring the \"Brown route\" which would have taken the new road further away from their villages. Cambridgeshire County Council have backed the scheme, and there is reported to be widespread support within the local communities for the plans.\n\nDuring 2009 a protest group campaigning for a new causeway at Swarkestone, Derbyshire was established.\n\nThe Highways Agency (HA) have planned to provide a section of bypass (also known as the Longdendale Bypass) to tackle congestions problems in Mottram, Hollingworth, and Tintwistle. and residents of these villages have campaigned for a bypass since the 1970s. Four groups: the \"Save Swallows Wood campaign\", the \"Friends of the Peak District\", the \"Council for the National Parks\", and South Yorkshire group \"WAIT\" oppose the scheme, which will pass through the Peak District National Park, and the Swallows Wood nature reserve. In December 2007 the inquiry was adjourned for the fourth time at the request of the Highways Agency who requested time to adjust their correct their traffic modelling, the inspector commented that it was the fifth iteration of the traffic model since the original announcement in February 2006.\n\nIn May 2007 a single-issue political party, the \"Independent Bypass Group\", campaigning for a bypass to be built around Boston, Lincolnshire, took control of Boston Borough Council, wiping out the Labour Party majority.\n\nA proposed road scheme to the north of Norwich linking the A1067 road and Norwich International Airport to the A47\nhas attracted opposition from both local and national groups.\n\nSouthend Borough Council wishes to build road to upgrade A1159/Priory Crescent in Southend in a dual carriageway.\n\nThe Camp Bling protest camp was established in 2005\nand was still active in October 2008 and intending to stay in place until the road is scrapped.\nAt a meeting with the council in April 2009 the authority told the protesters that the road widening scheme had been abandoned and the protesters agreed to leave.\n\nIn May 2007, the Spalding Guardian reported again that campaigners were calling for a bypass around the Lincolnshire villages of Whaplode and Moulton to be made a top priority. This call followed another fatal collision on the A151 road in Moulton. Measures which have already been taken on the road, including lower speed limits and speed cameras, haven't stopped the increasing death toll. The current campaign to have a bypass built started in 2002. In June 2004 the campaign group \"WRATH\"' (Whaplode Residents Against Traffic Horror) was launched to lobby for the bypass. In January 2005 \"WRATH\" submitted a proposed route for the bypass to Lincolnshire County Council. In July 2007, \"WRATH\" organised a three-mile (5 km) protest march through the villages to publicise their campaign. A Lincolnshire county councillor was reported to have said that there were twenty one other villages in Lincolnshire saying they had a need for a bypass.\n\nOther active protests include the ones against the following schemes: The South Bristol Link Road, Weymouth Relief Road, Bilston Glen, M6 widening, Bexhill to Hastings Link Road, Heysham to M6 Link, Kingskerswell Bypass, M1 Widening, Aberdeen Bypass, and the Westbury Bypass. In Ireland there is a protest opposed to bypassing the town of Slane with a new N2 dual carriageway which will pass a few kilometres from the Newgrange ancient monument.\n\nThe bypass around Temple Sowerby opened October 2007. The bypass aims to reduce traffic in the village by 95%. Locals had been calling for a bypass since the 1960s. In 1974 the government announced plans to build one, but these were abandoned in 1983. This was followed by years of increasingly vocal protests.\n\nTransport Scotland planned for some time to extend the M74 by five miles to link it to the M8. The M74 Extension, also known as 'M74 Completion' and 'M74 Northern Extension', extended the M74 northwards by through the south-eastern suburbs of Dalmarnock, Polmadie, Rutherglen, Govanhill and the Gorbals to meet the M8 near the Kingston Bridge in Glasgow on an elevated embankment. The Scottish Executive reported that the scheme will lead to a wealthier and fairer, healthier, safer and stronger, and greener future. However, JAM74, a coalition of community, environmental and sustainable transport groups, believed the scheme will be detrimental.\n\nIn May 2003, the Green and Socialist MSPs joined local campaigners to stop the project. A public inquiry for the scheme ran from December 2003 until March 2004 and the report, not published until March 2005 recommended against the building of the road, saying that it would \"be very likely to have very serious undesirable results\". The transport secretary at the time, Nicol Stephen, simultaneously announced that insufficient weight had been given to the economic benefits that the scheme would bring and that they would proceed with the scheme. Friends of the Earth Scotland said that it was \"probably the worst environmental decision ever taken by the Scottish Executive\" and that they would challenge the decision in court but then withdrew it in June 2006 on legal advice. In September 2004, the EU ruled that land on which the road was to be built should be classified as hazardous due to chromium dumps buried underground.\n\nConstruction work started in 2008, and the road opened on 28 June 2011. The extension involved the demolition of the Rosebery Park football ground.\n\n"}
{"id": "10237733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10237733", "title": "Meeting point", "text": "Meeting point\n\nA meeting point, meeting place, or assembly point is a geographically defined place where people meet. Such a meeting point is often a landmark which has become popular and is a convenient place for both tourists and citizens to meet. Examples of meeting points include public areas and facilities such as squares, statues, parks, amusement parks, railway stations, airports, etc. or officially designated and signed points in such public facilities. There is often a public sign designating an official meeting point in public facilities (see illustrations).\n\nEspecially when called an \"assembly point\", a meeting point is a designated (safe) place where people can gather or must report to during an emergency or a fire drill etc.\n\nIn sociology, a meeting point is a place where a group of people meet on a regular basis, for example a group of regulars or people with a special interest or background. These meeting points are in designated private rooms, in a part of a park, or in a café. Sites like meetways.com can help people find a meeting point between two addresses.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1810612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1810612", "title": "Melodifestivalen 2005", "text": "Melodifestivalen 2005\n\nMelodifestivalen 2005 was the selection for the 45th song to represent Sweden at the Eurovision Song Contest. It was the 44th time that this system of picking a song had been used. Five semifinals had taken place to select the ten songs for the final, in Gothenburg, Linköping, Skellefteå, Växjö and a Second Chance round in Stockholm. The final was broadcast on SVT1 and Sveriges Radio's P4 network. Nanne Grönvall's defeat was met with consternation by many people, who felt that a gap of over 150,000 votes should be enough for victory. There were even calls for SVT to scrap the jury system altogether and simply let the televotes decide the winner. For a comparison, it was noted that Grönvall had received more votes than Lena Philipsson, the popular 2004 winner. However, SVT said that there was nothing they could do about the result. Four finalists topped the Swedish charts. Alcazar and \"Alcastar\" got to number one the week before the final, Jimmy Jansson got to the number one some weeks after that with \"Vi kan gunga\", Martin Stenmarck's winner \"Las Vegas\" hit the top spot the week after that, while Nanne Grönvall and \"Håll om mig\" topped the charts the week after that.\n\nThe semifinals for Melodifestivalen 2005 began on 12 February 2005. Ten songs from these semifinals qualified for the final on March 12, 2005. This was the fourth year that a semifinal format had been used for the competition.\n\nKikki Danielsson, Sara Löfgren, Arvingarna, Sandra Dahlberg, Roger Pontare, Tommy Nilsson, Jessica Folcker, Grymlings, Freddie Wadling, Mikael Rickfors, Mats Ronander, Hasse Andersson & Kvinnaböske Band, Niclas Wahlgren, Pernilla Wahlgren, Linus Wahlgren, Lotta Engberg, Mathias Holmgren, Alex Falk, Johan Thorsell, Ingela 'Pling' Forsman, Lars 'Dille' Diedricsson, Peter Grönvall, Nanne Grönvall.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37880413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37880413", "title": "Panch Kalyanaka", "text": "Panch Kalyanaka\n\nPanch Kalyanaka (, \"Five Auspicious Events\") are the five chief auspicious events that are believed to occur in the life of tirthankara in Jainism. They are commemorated as part of many Jain rituals and festivals.\n\nThese auspicious life events are as below:\n\nThese dates are called \"Kalyanaka Tithi\".\nAll dates are considered according to Jain calendar known as \"Jain Panchang\" based on the Vira Nirvana Samvat, but they differ according to different sects of Jain tradition and sometimes different within the same tradition also.\n\nNote: This list is according to Śvētāmbara tradition and months are according to the Gujarati calendar.\n\n\n\nKalyanaka Bhumi are places where any of these Kalyanaka took place in relation to 24 Tirthankara. They are considered places of pilgrimage by Jains. 20 out of 24 Tirthankaras' Nirvana kalyanaka took place at Shikharji.\n\nThey are as below:\n\nSome rituals have close relationshhip with these five Kalyanakas.\n\nWhen a new Jain Temple is erected, these Five Auspicious Life Events are celebrated known as \"Panch Kalyanak Pratishtha Mahotsava\". It is followed by \"Anjana Shalaka\", a ceremony to install new Tirthankara icon. An Acharya recite \"mantra\"s related to Panch Kalyanaka followed by applying special paste to eyes of Tirthankara image. After these an icons of Tirthankara gets a status of real Tirthankara which can be worshipped by Jains. Acharya have to fast for three days before that.\n\n\"Panch Kalyanaka Puja\" is a ritual solemnizes all five Kalyanaka. It was narrated by Pandit Virvijay.\n\n\"Snatra Puja\" is a ritual related to Janma Kalyanaka in which icons of Tirthankara are bathed symbolising Indra doing Abhisheka on Tirthankara on Mount Meru after birth of Tirthankara. It performed before many other rituals and before starting of new enterprises, birthdays.\n\nMany religious festivals mark Kalyanaka of Tirthankara especially Janma and Nirvana Kalyanaka.\n\nIt marks Janma Kalyanak (birth) of 24th Tirthankara, Mahavira. Abhisheka of icons are done on this day and procession celebrating this event takes place in the cities. It is on 13th day of bright half of Chaitra month of Jain calendar (March/April).\n\nDiwali is a day of Nirvana Kalyanaka of 24th Tirthankara, Mahavira. He attained Moksha on this day in 527 BCE. It falls on fifteenth day of dark half of Ashwin (Aaso) month (September/October) which is also a last day of a year.\n\nIt is celebrated on 10th day of dark half of Pausha (Pushya) month of Hindu calendar(December/January). It marks Janma kalyanaka (birth) of 23rd Tirthankara, Parshvanath. Three days fast is observed by many Jains.\n\nMaun Agiyaras or Ekadashi marks Kalyanaka of many Tirthankaras. It is celebrated on 11th day of Magshar month of Jain calendar (October/November). On this day, complete silence is observed and fasting is kept. Meditation is also performed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1667789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1667789", "title": "Parachute music festival", "text": "Parachute music festival\n\nThe Parachute Music Festival was a Christian music festival held annually in various venues in New Zealand between 1992 - 2014 with the event being held at Mystery Creek Events Centre, Hamilton, New Zealand from 2004. It was previously held at Totara Springs in Matamata and El Rancho, Waikanae The festival was run by Parachute Music and usually lasted for three nights and four days. It was held the weekend before Auckland Anniversary Day, in late January. 'Parachute' was one of the largest Christian music festivals outside of the United States and it was one of the largest multi-day festivals in the Southern Hemisphere. Primarily featuring musicians and guest speakers, the festival was also the longest running festival of any kind in New Zealand.\n\nThe Parachute Music Festival attracted around 25,000 people each year. The largest crowd came in 2007, with 27,813 attendees. Most people who attend stay on-site in tents and caravans, and a large village area supplies food, amenities and band merchandise.\n\nEach year artists apply to play at Parachute which gives an opportunity for musicians to have their music heard by a large audience at a popular event. Bands applying must have a pastoral reference, that is a reference from a church leader, to ensure that the core members of any act are committed Christians. In some cases individual members of a band will not be Christian but Parachute see this as a good way to involve people in the festival community. While many local bands from New Zealand apply, Parachute receive applications from all over the world. Parachute Music also invite a number of headline artists each year to perform at the festival. Around 100 bands from many different genres play at Parachute each year.\n\nThe festival is aimed at a wide demographic ranging from families to teenagers. It is classified as a non-denominational Christian event, with enforced bans on drugs or alcohol and unmarried couples being discouraged from tenting together. However, a large percentage of non-Christian people do attend. Because Parachute is a non-denominational Christian festival, events such as Catholic Mass and Anglican Eucharist take place over the weekend.\n\nThe Festival is covered by most New Zealand media and is a well known event of the New Zealand summer. It has also been supported by and has been in partnerships with a number of businesses and organisations - Some examples are Coca-Cola, Sanitarium, V, Pepsi, Vodafone and The NZ Police.\n\nParachute is often in partnerships with charities such as, World Vision. Parachute Music have been working with World Vision since 2006 to sponsor a village in Rwanda called Tubehoneza. Over the last six festivals, festival-goers have donated $303,000 to the area. This money has been used to build five water tanks, three classrooms, a maternity unit and a health centre for Tubehoneza. Also through the festival 1,900 children have been sponsored.\n\nIn 1992, the first 'Parachute Music Festival' was staged at El Rancho Christian Holiday Camp, Waikanae. In 1995, the festival moved north to a larger venue at Totara Springs Christian Centre, Matamata. The most recent move was in 2004 to the Mystery Creek Events Centre, just outside Hamilton. \nThe festival has remained at Mystery Creek and in 2008, Parachute Music signed a contract with Mystery Creek Events Centre that kept the festival at the venue for five more years. At the end of 2012, Parachute Music renewed this contract with Mystery Creek ensuring that Parachute would again take place at the events centre for the next five years.\n\nIn 2010, Parachute Festival celebrated its 20th birthday with a large party at Mainstage and a fireworks display.\n\nParachute saw that families were unable to attend the festival due to a tough financial climate and introduced the 'Pay What You Can Afford' initiative for the 2012 festival where punters were able to pay for a family pass and choose from a price as low as $1. A similar programme under the same name was introduced for the 2013 festival where people were able to donate money to a 'Pay What You Can Afford' account and for every $200 raised, a family were able to attend the festival for free.\n\nMystery Creek Events Centre began a long-term major redevelopment in 2012, so limited gate access and venue space is available for the festival. For the first time in the festival's history, ticket numbers were capped off at 17,500 weekend passes and 1,500 day passes. After launching a festival app for Android and Apple devices in 2012, Parachute Festival will also launch technology where one can buy items at festival by scanning a festival wristband instead of paying with cash or cards in 2013.\n\nIn 2013, Parachute also restructured the festival to run as a 'three-day' event, rather than a four-day event which it has done in the past. This means that nothing will be programmed after midnight on Sunday but festival-goers will still be able to leave at their leisure on Monday. Also in 2013, Parachute became New Zealand's longest running festival, having been running its festival annually for 23 years.\n\nOn March 27, 2014 Parachute Music released a statement on its Facebook and its website announcing that Parachute Music Festival would no longer be running.\nThe closing set at the final Parachute was performed by local metalcore/hardcore band East of Eden.\n\nIn 2015 the multi-day Festival One will replace Parachute Festival in Mystery Creek, (and the single-day Cloud Festival in Auckland). These events feature many of the same artists.\n\nAlthough Parachute Festival has been around since 1991 the first international headliner performed in 1995\n\nPopular local bands have played Parachute as 'local Headliners.' In past festivals the line up has included the likes of Mumsdollar, Steriogram, The Lads, Brooke Fraser, juliagrace, Kingston, Ruby Frost, Late 80's Mercedes, The Glory Sea, and many others. Often Australian bands are put on the 'local Headliner' list.\n\nIn mid-2012, Parachute Music ran a competition to find a local band that would open the 2013 festival. A judging panel chose five bands that had entered and the decision was left to be made by public vote. The winner of this competition was hardcore band Saving Grace, from Gisborne. Saving Grace will be the first to play on Parachute's Mainstage for the 23rd festival.\n\nRepresenting dance and electronic music over the years have been DJs and MCs including Andy Hunter, Tim Richards, Andy Pulzar, Dr Siminz, Paul Spain/MC Preacher Boy and DJ U-gene. In 2013 Parachute introduced the 'Rewired Dance Parties' to the Palladium stage. These dance parties include DJ sets from festival headliners.\n\n\nEach year there are a range of speakers that speak at seminars and meetings over the weekend. \nThe key or 'headline' speakers at Parachute since 1993 have been:\n\nEvents and attractions that usually take place at Parachute:\n\nEach stage at Parachute Festival is designed to have a different feel and environment, and sometimes the stages are set for certain genres of music. Stages for 2014 are:\n\n\nParachute Festival's mainstage is often given a new look and in 2009, Parachute Music used a completely new mainstage for the festival. The mainstage used from 2009-2011 was New Zealand's largest concert stage. The 2012 festival saw a refreshed version of the former mainstage used at previous festivals. The mainstage currently used is a trailer that converts into a large stage and it is called 'Sam.'\n\nIn the past the festival has had up to nine stages running at one time. Notable former stages include:\n\nVarious other stages have appeared at festival in the past.\n\nAt the 2000 and 2001 Parachute Festivals, there was also a separate 'festival within a festival' dedicated to electronic and dance music in its various forms. This N'Dorphin Village was created by members of Dance Generation and featured continuous DJing and live electronica acts, along with urban dance culture elements such as break dancing performances and live Hip Hop.\n"}
{"id": "45559001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45559001", "title": "Presence (play)", "text": "Presence (play)\n\nPresence is the third full-length play by Scottish playwright David Harrower. It portrays a fictionalised account of the Beatles' first residency in Hamburg.\n\nPete Best, George Harrison and Paul McCartney share a room as they play the Indra Club (John Lennon and Stuart Sutcliffe are off-stage characters). Pete, newly joined to the group, is shown as an outsider, the diffident George, the youngest of the group, contrasts to the domineering Paul. The play ends as George is arrested for being out after the curfew imposed on minors in Hamburg (in real life he had lied to the German authorities about his age in order to be allowed to stay in Hamburg). The group play to dwindling audiences until Paul, angry at the band's lack of success and at being told that club owner Bruno Koschmider was in the Panzer division, begins sending up Nazism – wearing jackboots and crying “Sieg Heil” – which attracts a young audience to the club. That the Beatles are reported actually to have done this, coupled with Harrower's desire to write about the dynamics of a band were the origins of the play. The play alludes to events that followed this – Pete and Paul raised a small fire in their room – by having an older German woman, whose knowledge of the Nazi past counterpoints the young men's ignorance, set fire to a jacket hanging on the wall.\n\nThe play's première was at London's Royal Court, at the smaller 60-seat Theatre Upstairs, on 19 April 2001. The director was James Kerr, the designer was Rae Smith, the assistant director was Nina Raine, company voice work was by Patsy Rodenburg.\n\nThe cast was:\n\nGeorge – Ralf Little<br>Paul – William Ash<br>Pete – Michael Legge<br>Marian – Sarah Woodward<br>Elke – Christine Tremarco\n\nThe production received mixed to good reviews.\n\nThe play text was published by Faber and Faber and has been translated into Czech.\n\n"}
{"id": "7040742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7040742", "title": "Sacatepéquez", "text": "Sacatepéquez\n\nSacatepéquez () was a city in Guatemala from November 21, 1542 until July 29, 1773 when it was destroyed by the Santa Marta earthquake. Sacatepéquez means \"grasshill\" and gave its name to the department of Sacatepéquez.\n\nSacatepéquez and Antigua Guatemala were the two municipalities belonging to the department of Chimaltenango.\n\nOn September 12, 1839, the department of Sacatepéquez was created, getting its name from the former city. Antigua Guatemala was made the capital.\n\nChajoma\n"}
{"id": "187017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=187017", "title": "Sanford B. Dole", "text": "Sanford B. Dole\n\nSanford Ballard Dole (April 23, 1844 – June 9, 1926) was a lawyer and jurist in the Hawaiian Islands as a kingdom, protectorate, republic and territory. A descendant of the American missionary community to Hawaii, Dole advocated the westernization of Hawaiian government and culture. After the overthrow of the monarchy, he served as the President of the Republic of Hawaii until his government secured Hawaii's annexation by the United States.\n\nDole was born April 23, 1844 in Honolulu to Protestant Christian missionaries from Maine in the United States. His father was Daniel Dole (1808–1878), principal at Punahou School and his mother was Emily Hoyt Ballard (1808–1844). His mother died from complications within a few days of his birth. Dole was named after his uncle, Sandford K. Ballard, who was a classmate of his father's at Bowdoin College (and brother of his mother) who died in 1841. He was nursed by a native Hawaiian, and his father married Charlotte Close Knapp in 1846. In 1855 the family moved to Kōloa on the island of Kauai, where they operated another school.\n\nDole attended Punahou school for one year, and then Williams College in 1866–1867. He worked in a law office in Boston for another year, and although he never attended law school, he received an honorary LL.D. degree from Williams in 1897.\nIn December 1880 he was commissioned as a Notary Public in Honolulu.\nDole won the 1884 and 1886 elections to the legislature of the Hawaiian Kingdom as a representative from Kauai.\n\nIn June 1887 local businessmen, sugar planters and politicians backed by the Honolulu Rifles forced the dismissal of the cabinet of controversial Walter M. Gibson and forced the adoption of the 1887 Constitution of the Kingdom of Hawaii. The new documents limited voting rights exclusively to only the literate males of the following populations: Hawaiian, European, and American descent...while imposing income and wealth requirements to be eligible to vote for the House of Nobles, thus, effectively consolidating power among only the elite residents of the island. In addition, the new Constitution minimized the power of the Monarch in favor of more influential governance by the cabinet. Dole and other lawyers of American descent drafted this document, which became known as the \"Bayonet Constitution\".\n\nKing Kalākaua appointed Dole a justice of the Supreme Court of the Kingdom of Hawaii on December 28, 1887, and to a commission to revise judiciary laws on January 24, 1888. After Kalākaua's death, his sister Queen Liliuokalani appointed him to her Privy Council on August 31, 1891.\n\nThe monarchy ended on January 17, 1893 after the Overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii organized by many of the same actors involved in the 1887 revolt. Although Dole declined to officially be part of the Committee of Safety on January 16, he helped draft their declaration.\n\nDole was named president of the Provisional Government of Hawaii that was formed after the coup, and was recognized within 48 hours by all nations with diplomatic ties to the Kingdom of Hawaii, including the United Kingdom.\nHis cabinet (called the \"executive council\") included James A. King as minister of the interior,\nWilliam Owen Smith as attorney general, and banker Peter Cushman Jones as minister of finance. Dole acted as minister of foreign affairs himself until February 15, 1894.\nLater Samuel Mills Damon would serve as minister of finance.\n\nWith Grover Cleveland's election as President of the United States, the Provisional Government's hopes of annexation were derailed for a time. Indeed, Cleveland tried to directly help reinstate the monarchy, after an investigation led by James Henderson Blount. The Blount Report of July 17, 1893, commissioned by President Cleveland, concluded that the Committee of Safety conspired with U.S. ambassador John L. Stevens to land the United States Marine Corps, to forcibly remove Queen Liliuokalani from power, and declare a Provisional Government of Hawaii consisting of members from the Committee of Safety.\n\nOn November 16, 1893, Albert Willis presented the Queen with Cleveland's request that she grant amnesty to the Revolutionists in return for reinstatement. . Willis was to try to regain the throne for Liliuokalani on the condition that she give amnesty to the insurrectionists. She told him no, stating that the revolutionaries should be Punished and their properties and lands taken away from them. Willis said--and she later denied--that she suggested that they ought to be beheaded. Liliuokalani's position lost her the goodwill of the Cleveland administration, which thereupon recognized the Republic of Hawaii on July 4, 1894. \n\nThe Morgan Report of February 26, 1894, concluded that the overthrow was locally based, motivated by a history of corruption of the monarchy, and that American troops only served to protect American property and citizens and had no role in the end of the Hawaiian Monarchy.\n\nThe Provisional Government held a constitutional convention and on July 4, 1894, established the Republic of Hawaii.\nLorrin A. Thurston declined the presidency of the republic, and Dole was chosen to lead the government instead. Dole would serve as the first and only president from 1894 to 1898. Dole in turn appointed Thurston to lead a lobbying effort in Washington, DC and secure Hawaii's annexation.\nDole was successful as a diplomat – every nation that recognized the Kingdom of Hawaii also recognized the republic.\n\nDole's government weathered several attempts to restore the monarchy, including an attempted armed rebellion, the January 24, 1895 counter-revolution.\nLeader Robert William Wilcox and the other conspirators were captured and sentenced to death, but had their sentences reduced or commuted by Dole. The Queen abdicated and, under duress, swore allegiance to the Republic of Hawaii in February. While under arrest, she wrote, \"I hereby do fully and unequivocally admit and declare that the Government of the Republic of Hawaii is the only lawful Government of the Hawaiian Islands, and that the late Hawaiian monarchy is finally and forever ended, and no longer of any legal or actual validity, force or effect whatsoever.\"\n\nQueen Liliuokalani provided a more detailed story of the events from her perspective in the later chapters of her book.\nIn March 1899 Henry Ernest Cooper, who had been chairman of the Committee of Safety in 1893, became attorney general.\nPresident William McKinley appointed Dole to become the first territorial governor after U.S. annexation of Hawaii, and the Hawaiian Organic Act organized its government. Dole assumed the office on June 14, 1900 but resigned November 23, 1903 to accept an appointment by Theodore Roosevelt as judge for the US District Court after the death of Morris M. Estee. He served in that post until December 16, 1915, and was replaced by Horace Worth Vaughan.\nHe also served on commissions for Honolulu parks, and the public archives.\nHe died after a series of strokes on June 9, 1926. His ashes were interred in the cemetery of Kawaiahao Church.\n\nHis cousin Edmund Pearson Dole (1850–1928) came to Hawaii to practice as a lawyer in 1895, and became Attorney General of Hawaii from 1900 to 1903.\nSanford Dole was the cousin once removed of James Dole who came to Hawaii in 1899 and founded the Hawaiian Pineapple Company on Oahu, which later became the Dole Food Company.\nJames' father Charles Fletcher Dole also came to Hawaii in 1909.\n\nDole Middle School, located in Kalihi Valley on the island of Oahu, was named after him in April 1956, about a century after his father founded the school in Kōloa.\nIn the film \"Princess Kaiulani\", his role was played by Will Patton.\n\nIn Hawaiian, the pale and hair-like Spanish moss is called \"ʻumiʻumi-o-Dole\", meaning \"Dole's beard\".\n\n"}
{"id": "23141650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23141650", "title": "Sejm cross", "text": "Sejm cross\n\nThe Sejm cross is a Catholic crucifix in the building of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, the lower house of the Polish parliament.\n\nThe Sejm cross hangs above the door on the left-hand side of the rostrum in the Sejm Plenary Hall. It was hung there by a Solidarity Electoral Action (AWS) MP Tomasz Wójcik and his colleague in the night between October 19 and 20 1997, shortly after the AWS and the Freedom Union signed a coalition agreement. The cross was a gift from the mother of Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, priest and martyr murdered by the Służba Bezpieczeństwa (communist political police) in 1984.\n\nThe spokesman of the Democratic Left Alliance (SLD) protested against the presence of the cross in the Sejm, saying that it was hung there in order to provoke a brawl. Other opponents called it a violation of the Constitution (which came into effect two days before the act) which states that the Republic of Poland is neutral in religious matters. Nobody disputed the fact that the hanging of the cross was illegal - Wójcik got into the Sejm chamber without any approval and other MPs had never discussed about that topic before. Nonetheless the cross has been hanging in the chamber ever since - even when the Democratic Left Alliance won the elections in 2001.\n\nIn 2011 the Chancellery of the Sejm commissioned and published four legal opinions concerning the presence of the cross in the Sejm Plenary Hall.\n\n"}
{"id": "50339967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50339967", "title": "Siberian Seven", "text": "Siberian Seven\n\nThe Siberian Seven refers to a family of persecuted Pentecostals in the Soviet Union who took up residency in the US embassy in Moscow. The Vashchenko family, originally from Chernogorsk, Siberia, stayed there from June 1978 to June 1983 before they were allowed to leave to Israel on a tourist visa and eventually settling in the United States\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58036351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58036351", "title": "Spilt Milk (festival)", "text": "Spilt Milk (festival)\n\nSpilt Milk is an annual music festival that is held in Canberra, Australia. \nSpilt Milk was established by Kicks Entertainment. Their first festival was held on Saturday December 3rd, 2016 in Canberra, ACT. \n\n\"As listed on the official website. Bold indicates headline act. All acts are Australian unless stated otherwise.\"\n\n\"In Alphabetical Order\"\n\n\"In Alphabetical Order\"\n\n\"In Alphabetical Order\"\n"}
{"id": "4784470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4784470", "title": "Teatro Real", "text": "Teatro Real\n\nTeatro Real (Royal Theatre) or simply \"El Real,\" as it is known colloquially, is a major opera house located in Madrid. Founded in 1818 and inaugurated on 19 November 1850, it closed in 1925 and reopened in 1997 with a capacity of 1,746 seats. Today, the Teatro Real opera is one of the great theaters of Europe and its seasons are home productions involving leading figures of the international singing, musical direction, stage direction and dance. The theater also offers guided tours in several languages, including the auditorium, stage, workshops and rehearsal rooms.\n\nFounded by King Ferdinand VII in 1818, and after thirty-two years of planning and construction, a Royal Order on 7 May 1850 decreed the immediate completion of the \"Teatro de Oriente\" and the building works were finished within five months. The Opera House, located just in front of the Palacio Real, the official residence of the Queen who ordered the construction of the theatre, Isabel II, was finally inaugurated on 19 November 1850, with Donizetti's \"La Favorite\". In 1863, Giuseppe Verdi visited the theatre for the Spanish premiere of his \"La Forza del Destino\". In 1925, the \"Ballets Russes\" of Diaghilev performed in the theatre with the presence of Nijinsky and Stravinsky.\n\nFrom 1867 it housed the Madrid Royal Conservatory until 1925 when a Royal Order of 6 December called for eviction owing to the damage that the construction of the Metro de Madrid had caused to the building. Despite its closure, the government always contemplated the possibility of restoring it, ordering numerous projects, such as the architect Urdanpilleta Flórez, who raised a pharaonic remodeling of the building. However, financial difficulties prevented the completion of these projects and led to a simple restoration, sponsored by the Juan March Institute, and carried out first by the architect Manuel Gonzalez Valcárcel, and later by architects Miguel Verdú Belmonte and Francisco Rodriguez Partearroyo.\n\nThe theatre reopened in 1966 as a concert hall as well as the main concert venue for the Spanish National Orchestra and the RTVE Symphony Orchestra. The reopening was celebrated with a concert of the Spanish National Orchestra conducted by Rafael Frühbeck de Burgos, and the Orfeón Donostiarra. In 1969, the 14th \"Eurovision Song Contest\" was held at the theatre, featuring an onstage metal sculpture created by surrealist Spanish artist Salvador Dalí.\n\nIn the 1990s, the house was remodeled to host opera again. The building was completed in late 1995, then the process of technical, administrative, artistic and functional organization began which led to the opening of the theatre in 1997. The remodeling was based on the old classical style of opera house with only basic modernization leaving many seats without a view of the stage. A considerable percentage of seats have a limited or zero view of the stage and a live stream of operas and ballets is projected on the upper side walls of the house so that the entire audience can follow the performance regardless of their view of the stage.\n\nThe first opera program performed for the reopening was Manuel de Falla’s \"El sombrero de tres picos\" and \"La vida breve\", which was immediately followed by the world premiere of Spanish composer Antón García Abril's \"Divinas Palabras\" (actually commissioned to open the house) with Plácido Domingo in the cast. The company staged the first modern revival of Vicente Martín y Soler's \"Il burbero di buon cuore\" in 2007, and the world premiere of Philip Glass' opera \"The perfect American\" in 2013.\n\nThe theatre stages around seventeen opera titles (both own productions and co-productions with other major opera houses in Europe and South America) per year, as well as two or three major ballets and several recitals, from September to July.\n\nThe most popular operas at the Teatro Real have included Verdi's \"Rigoletto\" (given 387 performances), followed by \"Aida\" with 361 and \"Il trovatore\" with 342. Two works by Meyerbeer \"L'Africaine\" (with 268) and \"Les Huguenots\" (with 243) have been shown to draw audiences, although the former work has not been performed since the 1920s, being no longer considered mainstream repertory. Donizetti's \"Lucrezia Borgia\" has been given some 218 performances since its debut in the house in 1919.\n\nThe Teatro Real has been celebrating its bicentenary with a special programme beginning in 2016. One of the operas featured was Bellini's \"I Puritani\", a co-production with the Teatro Municipal of Santiago, Chile. A performance of this work was streamed in July 2016 via the Teatro Real's Facebook page, an example of the theatre extending its reach by digital services. The event was also relayed to a number of venues and was a national trending topic on Twitter. The same production has been performed by the company (including orchestra and chorus) on August 2017 at the Savonlinna Opera Festival.\n\nFor the 2017/18 Season (20 years from the reopening), some of the most popular opera titles on the Theatre's history have been scheduled: Bizet's \"Carmen\", Puccini's \"La bohème\", Donizetti's \"Lucia di Lammermoor\" or Verdi's \"Aida\", alongside with other rare operas, as Zimmermann's \"Die Soldaten or Britten's \"Gloriana\".\n\nThe orchestra of the Teatro Real is the Orquesta Sinfónica de Madrid. The current artistic manager is Joan Matabosch, former director of Gran Teatre del Liceu in Barcelona.\nFrom 2015, the Music Director is the British conductor Ivor Bolton, and Pablo Heras-Casado is Principal Guest Conductor.\n\nThe Opera House offers daily different types of guided tours, lasting between 50 and 90 minutes and given in various languages. This gives the public the opportunity to learn about the building, including the stage area, the workshops and the rehearsal spaces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5311818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5311818", "title": "The Capeman", "text": "The Capeman\n\nThe Capeman is a musical play written by Paul Simon and Derek Walcott based on the life of convicted murderer Salvador Agrón. The play opened at the Marquis Theatre in 1998 to poor reviews and ran for 68 performances.\nA blend of doo-wop, gospel, and Latin music, it received Tony award nominations for Best Original Score, Best Orchestrations and Best Scenic Design. Renoly Santiago received a Drama Desk nomination for Outstanding Featured Performer in a Musical. Ednita Nazario won the Theater World Award for her performance.\n\nIn 2008, Simon and the Spanish Harlem Orchestra performed \"The Capeman\" at the Brooklyn Academy of Music with some of the original cast and other well-known artists. Simon also devoted a section of his two-night performances at the Beacon Theatre to \"The Capeman\". The NY Public Theater presented a concert production of the musical in the Summer of 2010 at Central Park's Delacorte Theater, directed by Diane Paulus.\n\nPaul Simon began working on \"The Capeman\" in 1988. The early development was aided by Simon's friend Carlos Ortiz, who helped Simon locate and translate source material. Simon and Ortiz met with people who had known Agron in prison, and visited Esmeralda Agron in Puerto Rico. In the first minutes of their meeting, Agron described a dream of her son entering heaven, which would become the song \"Esmeralda's Dream.\" Ortiz also introduced Simon to several Latin musicians, and before long Simon had written \"Born in Puerto Rico,\" one of the show's centerpiece songs.\n\nSimon enlisted the help of Derek Walcott, a Nobel Prize-winning author and poet from the West Indies. Their working relationship was awkward at first: Simon had become unused to this type of creative collaboration, and Walcott initially disliked the show's main character. Simon insisted that the music be written first, with the lyrics set to the songs. Eventually the two completed the play, with music composed by Simon and lyrics \"about 50–50 Simon-Walcott.\"\n\nSimon assembled a band and spent almost five years and $1 million recording the songs. This was an unorthodox approach to constructing a Broadway show. Typically a show's writer would deliver a script and score to a director, who would assemble and create the final production. Simon wanted to retain full artistic control over the show through its entire production. Simon soon encountered resistance for refusing to play by the usual rules of the Broadway industry.\n\nSimon was often cited as being disdainful of Broadway, and said in interviews that he hoped to reinvigorate what he saw as a stale musical form. Broadway music, he said, had \"ended up in a weird cul de sac – probably because it was never energized by rock and roll.\"\nThe theatre producer Rocco Landesman later responded to Simon's statements: \"The idea that you can at a strike rewrite an art form is a little presumptuous. I can't say the people in the theater community were rooting for Paul Simon after all the things he said about Broadway.\"\n\nIn 2011, Simon admitted that his inexperience had been a problem, saying\nIt's not that easy to write for the theater for the first time...You really need a guide. For people coming out of popular music, writing songs that further the plot is different from writing whatever is on your mind. It's a different discipline.\n\nSimon assembled a team of producers and financiers, including James L. Nederlander and Brad Grey. The team raised and contributed several million dollars, but none had experience producing a Broadway show.\n\nEventually, the production cost an estimated $11 million, at the time a very high budget for a Broadway show. Some of the high budget was due to Simon's insistence that his musicians participate in all rehearsals with the actors, not a typical practice in Broadway productions.\n\nIn another unorthodox move, Simon hired the director as the last member of the creative team. Simon first offered the job to Mark Morris, who agreed to be the show's choreographer instead. Simon hired set designer Bob Crowley (who would be nominated for Tony Award for his sets in \"The Capeman\"), and cast Ruben Blades and Marc Anthony in the title roles. Only after these decisions did he hire Susana Tubert as the director.\n\nDuring the last 18 months before its opening, three different directors worked on the musical: Tubert, Eric Simonson, and Mark Morris, the choreographer, who was the final credited director. The show's eventual release date was delayed by last-minute editing and restructuring. Derek Walcott, the show's book writer, effectively walked out of the production after resisting rewrites. Blades, in particular, had very strong opinions about Walcott's book: \nI admire him deeply, he is a Nobel Laureate, but there are cultural nuances that are lost in the translation that Walcott was simply unable to catch. I also had my struggles with Simon, telling him that a particular line or two would have never come out of a Latino's mouth if the play is to be believable. \n\nSignificant work was done by director Jerry Zaks, hired in an \"unofficial capacity\" to help Morris. Zaks said, \"I've done about as much as I can with what's there.\"\n\nThe production gave preview performances in New York while the rewriting was taking place. This put the cast in the difficult position of performing the original version of the show each night, while in the afternoons they learned and rehearsed rewritten versions.\n\nThe show opened at the Marquis Theatre on January 29, 1998, and suffered from very poor reviews from the mainstream press. Within a week, the show's producers discussed their strategy for saving the production, and vowed to keep the show open at least until the Tony Award nominations in May.\n\nThe show closed after only 68 performances on March 28. After the show's closing was announced, Paul Simon issued a statement: \"What I enjoyed the most, apart from the creative process, was the intensity with which the audience, in particular the Latino audience, responded to the play.\"\n\n\n\nInitial mainstream press reviews of \"The Capeman\" were overwhelmingly negative, though most had some praise for Simon's music.\n\nBen Brantley, reviewer for the \"New York Times\", wrote a very negative review, calling the show a \"sad, benumbed spectacle\" which was \"unparalleled in its wholesale squandering of illustrious talents\". He praised Simon's \"Songs From The Capeman\" album, but said that the translation to stage was lacking: \"Everything in the music melts together; practically nothing that's said, done and shown on the stage seems to connect with anything else.\" Brantley admired Anthony and Blades' talents, but criticized the writing of their character, saying that Anthony \"has been given no proper role to play\". He wrote that the historical footage of Agron stole the show, especially young Sal's media statements that his mother could watch him burn. \"Nothing that Mr. Anthony or Mr. Blades does in \"The Capeman\" begins to approach the disturbing complexity of that image.\"\nHowever, \"The Capeman\" was included in the \"New York Times\" year-end Top Ten list for music in theater.\n\nThere was a minority that appreciated the play, but these were generally outside the mainstream. An article in \"The Progressive\" suggests cultural factors that led to the bad reviews, citing mainstream backlash against Simon's disparagement of the Broadway system, and discomfort with racial and ethnic themes in the Broadway core audience. The article points out that reviews were generally positive among two groups: out-of-town critics and non-white New York critics.\n\nIn 1997 (before the show's premiere), Simon released a studio album called \"Songs from The Capeman\", featuring 13 songs from the show performed by Simon with appearances from some of the original cast. Compared to Simon's other studio recordings, the album was not a success, peaking at position 42 of the Billboard 200 chart, the lowest of his career. Soon after, Puerto Rican singer Danny Rivera included a Spanish-language version of \"Born in Puerto Rico\" as part of his live recording, \"En Vivo desde Carnegie Hall\". In the recording, Rivera can be heard acknowledging Simon's presence in the audience, and thanking him for the song on behalf of all Puerto Ricans.\n\nAn original cast soundtrack recording was produced featuring 21 tracks, but its release was postponed after the show's failure. The record was eventually released in 2006 at the iTunes Store as \"The Capeman (Original Broadway Cast Recording)\". All vocals on this release were performed by the original cast, with an appearance by Paul Simon on \"Trailways Bus.\"\n\n\"The Capeman\" was not performed in its original form after its 68-show original Broadway run. Shortly after the show's closure there were discussions of a \"Songs of The Capeman\" national concert tour, but these plans were abandoned.\nJust days after the show's Broadway premier, \"Variety\" journalist Greg Evans suggested that the doomed show would work well as a concert of songs. He wrote,\n\"Years from now, when some savvy producer is scouting old theater material for a scaled-down concert staging, \"The Capeman\" should be first on his list.\"\n\nIn 2008, Joseph Melillo, director of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, produced a stage show called \"Songs from the Capeman\" using Paul Simon's \"Capeman\" music without the narrative dramatic elements of the show. Melillo said, \"I wanted to help Paul, to get this demon out of him and onto the stage, where we could say, 'Look everyone, this is great music.'\"\n\nMelillo's production featured the Spanish Harlem Orchestra led by Oscar Hernández, original music director for the Broadway \"Capeman\".\n\nPaul Simon appeared to sing \"Trailways Bus,\" one of the songs from the show, and finished the evening with a performance of his 1980 Latin-themed single \"Late in the Evening.\"\nIn August 2010 a heavily revised production of \"The Capeman\" ran three shows at Central Park's Delacorte Theater, directed by Diane Paulus. The production featured Obie Bermúdez as The Umbrella Man and a musical number by Danny Rivera. This version was substantially stripped down, with a running time of only about 90 minutes (compared to the original production's three hours). The new version increased the focus on Agron's mother, dropped some characters and subplots, used more choreography, and had no sets.\nThe media was instructed not to write reviews of the show, which was officially described as a work in progress, with Public Theater artistic director Oskar Eustis calling it \"just a sketch\" of full reconception of the show. Even so, Ben Brantley of the \"New York Times\", who said the original Broadway production was \"like watching a mortally wounded animal\", gave a positive review, focusing on the organic staging outdoors on a rainy night in Central Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "14098941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14098941", "title": "The Devil's Charter", "text": "The Devil's Charter\n\nThe Devil's Charter is an early Jacobean era stage play, a tragedy written by Barnabe Barnes. The play recounts the story of Pope Alexander VI.\n\n\"The Devil's Charter\" dates from 1607; it was acted by the King's Men at Court before King James I on Candlemas (2 February) of that year. The play was entered into the Stationers' Register on 16 October 1607, and published before the end of the year, in a quarto printed by George Eld for the bookseller John Wright. Barnes dedicated the play to Sir William Pope and to William Herbert, 3rd Earl of Pembroke. The 1607 quarto is the sole edition of the play prior to the 20th century.\n\nThe play opens with a dumbshow prologue that shows Roderigo making a deal with the devil to become Pope Alexander VI. Lodowick convinces Charles of France to go to war against Italy on religious grounds. Two gentlemen lambast the pope’s corruption. Gismond and Barbarossa intercept some slander against the pope and Gismond and are upset, promising to find and punish the writer. The Pope soliloquizes about how he made this deal with the devil for the betterment of his sons, Candy and Caesar. He divides Italy and the surrounding territories between them and gives them each a swath to rule. Caesar and the Pope pontificate about ruling well and fighting wars in the name of religion. Candy leaves to go deal with the ambassador come to make a marriage with the Lady Saunce. Lucretia prepares to murder her husband Gismond for keeping her shut away. They trade barbs about jealousy and virtue. She ties him up, makes him sign a statement that he slandered her, her father the pope, her brothers Caesar and Candy, and also Sforza, and then stabs him a BUNCH. She then stages it to look like he killed himself out of regret over locking her up and retires to bed. A servant and Barbarossa discover the body and she feigns shock and grief. She makes a scene and threatens to kill herself as well. The Chorus tells us that King Charles is marching on Italy with about 20000 troops.\n\nAlexander, Caesar, and Candy prepare for battle against King Charles. Alexander and Charles parley and can’t come to an agreement—Charles wants to conquer Rome, and Alexander won’t yield the Castell Angelo. Charles’s companions call Alexander the antichrist and call on Charles to remove him from the throne. Charles and Alexander reach an accord. The Chorus tells us that after this, Charles dies, territory changes hands a couple times, and the rest of the play really only concerns the Pope and Caesar.\n\nThe Pope sends a messenger with a ruby to Astor bidding him to come visit. Astor is the Pope’s captive for sexual reasons. Astor is insulted by this request. The Pope comes out of a casement to beg/woo Astor to come to him. Astor resists and resists and then excuses himself for mass. The Pope tells his servant to make sure Astor visits after mass because he cannot breathe without him. Caesar hires Frescobaldi, a ruffian, to do some nefarious work. Frescobaldi recites his qualifications, his mettle in battle, etc. Candy suspects that his sister Lucretia murdered her husband Gismond and calls her in for questioning. Frescobaldi sets up his post to do his dirty work. Baglioni stumbles across him and the two become friends. Frescobaldi dismisses Baglioni and gets back to work. Caesar and Frescobaldi trip and stab Candy. Frescobaldi hauls Candy’s body up to toss it over the bridge, and Caesar pushes Frescobaldi after. Caesar crows about how no one will suspect his crimes since he’s a cardinal. He plots to frame Sforza for the murder and to kill his sister Lucretia next. \n\nThe Pope conjures devils to find out who murdered Candy and Gismond, and is horrified when he finds out Caesar and Lucretia are responsible. He vows that they (and Astor) must die. The Pope accuses Caesar of murdering Candy, and Caesar accuses the Pope of incest, murder, sodomy, lust, etc. They both agree to conceal the other’s sins in order to keep the status quo. Lucretia puts on poisoned makeup and dies. Caesar lays siege to Countess Katharine of Furli, Sforza’s daughter. She refuses to yield and he reveals that he has kidnapped her two sons. She still refuses to yield even to save their lives and Caesar orders their execution. They fight in battle and Katharine is captured. Caesar reveals that her sons are alive and her fortune is intact, and orders the three of them sent to Rome. Barbarossa is instructed to govern Furli without restriction and give the people their liberty. The Pope arranges for Astor and his brother Philippo to be drugged to sleep, then places an asp on both their chests and they die. Other lords suspect foul play.\n\nCaesar discharges his army with good pay and then hires Baglioni to kill Rozzi, an apothecary. Bernardo arrives to collect some powders and poisons from Rozzi. Rozzi sets down his bottles to read a letter. Baglioni drinks from the bottles while he waits to shoot Rozzi. The bottle are poisoned. Bernardo leaves with the potions. Baglioni shoots Rozzi. The Pope and Caesar discuss their plans to poison Cardinal Caraffa at a banquet that night. The Devil arrives at the banquet and plays switcheroo with the poisoned bottles. The Pope and Caesar poison themselves. Caesar stabs Bernardo for the mix up. The Cardinals depart to save themselves. The devils Belchar, Astaroth, and Varca plan to hurry the Pope to hell. The Pope tries to repent and has difficulty accessing his conscience. He retires to his study and finds the Devil there waiting for him. The Pope tries to exorcise the Devil and cannot. They look over the contract he made in exchange for becoming Pope, and because of some tricky math, it is for eleven years and seven days, though the Pope thought it was for eighteen years and eight days. They argue over the terms and the Devil tells the Pope to prepare for eternal torment. The Devil shows the Pope the ghosts of stabbed Candy and poisoned Lucretia—the Pope is poisoned in retribution for poisoning Lucretia, while Caesar will be stabbed in retribution for stabbing Candy. A bunch of devils arrive to take the Pope down to hell. Two Cardinals find his corpse and order Rome’s bells to be run in Thanksgiving for being delivered from this wicked pope.\n\nThe play is notable among scholars of English Renaissance theatre for its unusually full stage directions, which reveal much about the dramatic style of the leading company of the age — and for the fact that those stage directions specify the play's characters carrying their props onto the stage with them. Since the characters are historical personages (Charles VIII of France, Lodovico Sforza, Cesare Borgia, and Francesco Guicciardini among others), the effect can be odd and striking; at the start of Act I, scene v, Lucrezia Borgia enters carrying a chair, \"which she planteth upon the stage.\" Characters murder other characters, then drag the bodies offstage.\n\nThe text of \"The Devil's Charter\" is rich with intellectual, historical, and contemporary Jacobean references. It is not accidental that this anti-Catholic play was written and produced in the aftermath of the Gunpowder Plot of 1605; Protestant propagandists found the story of the Borgia family a useful resource. The story was dramatized again by Nathaniel Lee in his \"Caesar Borgia\" (1679).\n\nThe Devil in the play's title is literal rather than metaphorical; Alexander conjures up Astaroth to aid him in his climb to power. (Barnes's play reflects the influences of earlier devil plays, notably Marlowe's \"Doctor Faustus\".) The diabolism of the plot provides opportunities for sensationalism, with multiple ghosts, and stage spectacle, as in the conjuring scene IV,i. (The stage directions there give the King's Men some latitude in special effects: Alexander conjures up an infernal king with a red face, who is \"riding upon a lion, or dragon.\") At the start of V,v, Astaroth calls up two fellow devils, Belchar and Varca; they converse and dance. In the next and concluding scene, Astaroth, wearing the papal robes, surprises Alexander; the pope learns that the devil has planted tricky arithmetic in their written contract, and that his reign is over years sooner than he expected. Amid thunder and lightning, a horde of devils drag Alexander to Hell.\n"}
{"id": "39478873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39478873", "title": "Théâtre municipal de Tunis", "text": "Théâtre municipal de Tunis\n\nThe Théâtre municipal de Tunis (engl. \"Municipal Theatre of Tunis\") in Tunisia was first opened on November 20, 1902 and currently showcases opera, ballet, symphonic concerts and dramas featuring numerous Tunisian, Arabic and international actors.\n\nIn June 2013, a K-pop concert was held at the Théâtre municipal de Tunis by the South Korean boyband Lunafly.\n\n"}
{"id": "5580856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5580856", "title": "Timeline of Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda link allegations", "text": "Timeline of Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda link allegations\n\nThis article is a chronological listing of allegations of meetings between members of al-Qaeda and members of Saddam Hussein's government, as well as other information relevant to conspiracy theories involving Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda.\n\nIn 2003, American terrorism analyst Evan Kohlman said in an interview:\n\nWhile there have been a number of promising intelligence leads hinting at possible meetings between al-Qaeda members and elements of the former Baghdad regime, nothing has been yet shown demonstrating that these potential contacts were historically any more significant than the same level of communication maintained between Osama bin Laden and ruling elements in a number of Iraq's Persian Gulf neighbors, including Saudi Arabia, Iran, Yemen, Qatar, and Kuwait.\n\nIn 2006, a report of postwar findings by the United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence concluded that:\n\nThe same report also concluded that:\n\nThe result of the publication of the Senate report was the belief that the entire connection between Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda was an official deception based on cherry picking specific intelligence data that bolstered the case for war with Iraq regardless of its reliability. One instance of this reaction was reported in a BBC news article, which stated:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn sum, by the mid-'90s, the Joint Terrorism Task Force in New York, the F.B.I., the U.S. Attorney's office in the Southern District of New York, the C.I.A., the N.S.C., and the State Department had all found no evidence implicating the Iraqi government in the first Trade Center attack.\n\n\nBut the investigation, both the CIA investigation and the FBI investigation, made it very clear in '95 and '96 as they got more information, that the Iraqi government was in no way involved in the attack. And the fact that one of the 12 people involved in the attack was Iraqi hardly seems to me as evidence that the Iraqi government was involved in the attack. The attack was al-Qaida; not Iraq. The Iraqi government because, obviously, of the hostility between us and them, didn't cooperate in turning him over and gave him sanctuary, as it did give sanctuary to other terrorists. But the allegation that has been made that the 1993 attack on the World Trade Center was done by the Iraqi government I think is absolutely without foundation.\n\n\nMost analysts believe, however, that the ideological differences between the Iraqis and the terrorists were insurmountable. It is thought that bin Laden rejected any kind of alliance, preferring to pursue his own policy of global jihad, or holy war.\n\n\n\nAt least one of these reports dates the meeting to 1994, but other evidence indicates the meeting may have occurred in February 1995.\n\n\nThe information is puzzling, since bin Ladin left Sudan for Afghanistan in May 1996, and there is no evidence he ventured back there (or anywhere else) for a visit. In examining the source material, the reports note that the information was received 'third hand,' passed from the foreign government service that 'does not meet directly with the ultimate source of the information, but obtains the information from him through two unidentified intermediaries, one of whom merely delivers the information to the Service.'\" The same source also claims al-Ahmed was seen near bin Laden's farm in December 1995.\n\n\nThe INC's agenda was to get us into a war. The really damaging stories all came from those guys, not the CIA. They did a really sophisticated job of getting it out there.\n\nOne of the defectors, al-Ghurairy, has been described as \"a complete fake – a low-ranking former soldier whom Ahmed Chalabi's aides had coached to deceive the media.\" Another defector who interviewed al-Ghurairy noted, \"He is an opportunist, cheap and manipulative. He has poetic interests and has a vivid imagination in making up stories.\" Inconsistencies in the stories of the defectors led U.S. officials, journalists, and investigators to conclude that the Salman Pak story was inaccurate. One senior U.S. official said that they had found \"nothing to substantiate\" the claim that al-Qaeda trained at Salman Pak other than the testimony of several INC defectors.\n\nI am lucky that I know the area, this Salman Pak. This is a very beautiful area with gardens, with trees. It is not possible to do such a program there, because there's no place for planes.\n\n\nThe nature of the work being done by some of those people that we captured, their inferences to the type of training that they received, all of these things give us the impression that there was terrorist training that was conducted at Salman Pak.\n\nThe independent Iraqi weekly \"Al-Yawm Al-Aakher\" interviewed a former Iraqi officer who also claimed that Salman Pak was being used to train foreign terrorists.\n\nSalman Pak was overrun by American troops on 6 April [2003]. Apparently, neither the camp nor the former biological facility has yielded evidence to substantiate the claims made before the war [that the camp was used for terrorist training].\n\nA similar view is also held by Douglas MacCollam, a journalist for the \"Columbia Journalism Review\",\n\nThere still remain claims and counterclaims about what was going on at Salman Pak. But the consensus view now is that the camp was what Iraq told UN weapons inspectors it was – a counterterrorism training camp for army commandos.\n\n\nFabricators and unestablished sources who reported hearsay or third-hand information created a large volume of human intelligence reporting. This type of reporting surged after September 2001.\n\n\nThis is the first report from Ibn al-Shaykh in which he claims Iraq assisted al-Qaida's CBRN [Chemical, Biological, Radiological or Nuclear] efforts. However, he lacks specific details on the Iraqis involved, the CBRN materials associated with the assistance, and the location where training occurred. It is possible he does not know any further details; it is more likely this individual is intentionally misleading the debriefers. Ibn al-Shaykh has been undergoing debriefs for several weeks and may be describing scenarios to the debriefers that he knows will retain their interest.\n\n\n\nMr. Inderfurth said he did not believe the Taliban claim was credible at the time, and that he had no recollection of Taliban officials mentioning Iraqi or Iranian attempts to meet bin Laden in the following 19 meetings he would attend with the de facto Afghan regime for the next four years.\n\nAyman al-Zawahiri, Al-Qaeda second-in-command, allegedly meets Taha Yasin Ramadan, Iraqi vice-president.\n\nDaniel Benjamin, head of the U.S. National Security Council's counterterrorism division, heads an exercise aimed at a critical analysis of the CIA's contention that Iraq and al Qaeda would not team up. \"This was a red-team effort,\" he said. \"We looked at this as an opportunity to disprove the conventional wisdom, and basically we came to the conclusion that the CIA had this one right.\" He further stated that\n\nNo one disputes that there have been contacts over the years. In that part of the America-hating universe, contacts happen. But that's still a long way from suggesting that they were really working together.\n\nOsama bin Laden issues a fatwa urging jihad against all Americans. In his fatwa, bin Laden states\n\nThe ruling to kill the Americans and their allies – civilians and military – is an individual duty for every Muslim who can do it in any country in which it is possible to do it, in order to liberate the al-Aqsa Mosque and the holy mosque [Mecca] from their grip, and in order for their armies to move out of all the lands of Islam, defeated and unable to threaten any Muslim.\n\nHe also states that one of his reasons for the fatwa is the \"Americans' continuing aggression against the Iraqi people.\" Bin Laden mentions aggression against Iraq four times in the fatwa. A more important reason is the perceived American aggression against Muslims, which is mentioned seven times.\n\n\nAccording to the above, we suggest permission to call the Khartoum station [Iraq's intelligence office in Sudan] to facilitate the travel arrangements for the above-mentioned person to Iraq. And that our body carry all the travel and hotel costs inside Iraq to gain the knowledge of the message from bin Laden and to convey to his envoy an oral message from us to bin Laden.\n\nThe letter refers to al-Qaeda's leader as an opponent of the Saudi Arabian regime and says that the message to be conveyed to bin Laden through the envoy \"would relate to the future of our relationship with him, bin Laden, and to achieve a direct meeting with him.\" The meeting was allegedly extended by a week and the document \"recommends contacts with bin Laden.\"\n\n\nThe direct physical evidence from the scene obtained at that time convinced the U.S. intelligence community that their suspicions were correct about the facility's chemical weapons role and that there was a risk of chemical agents getting into the hands of al-Qaeda.\n\nOfficials later acknowledged, however, that\n\nthe evidence that prompted President Clinton to order the missile strike on the Shifa plant was not as solid as first portrayed. Indeed, officials later said that there was no proof that the plant had been manufacturing or storing nerve gas, as initially suspected by the Americans, or had been linked to Osama bin Laden, who was a resident of Khartoum in the 1980s.\n\n\nNow, the analysts renewed their doubts and told Assistant Secretary of State Phyllis Oakley that the C.I.A.'s evidence on which the attack was based was inadequate. Ms. Oakley asked them to double-check; perhaps there was some intelligence they had not yet seen. The answer came back quickly: There was no additional evidence. Ms. Oakley called a meeting of key aides and a consensus emerged: Contrary to what the Administration was saying, the case tying Al Shifa to Mr. bin Laden or to chemical weapons was weak.\n\n\nStephen Hayes of the \"Weekly Standard\" reported that this month, according to a \"Summary of Evidence\" released by the Pentagon in March 2005 concerning a detainee held at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp, that this former infantryman of the Iraqi Army who became an al-Qaeda agent traveled to Pakistan with a member of Iraqi intelligence \"for the purpose of blowing up the Pakistan, United States and British Embassies with chemical mortars.\"\n\nAn Associated Press report of the same document, however, includes the caveat\n\nThere is no indication the Iraqi's purported terror-related activities were on behalf of Saddam Hussein's government, other than the brief mention of him [the detainee] traveling to Pakistan with a member of the Iraqi intelligence. ... The assertion that the [detainee] was involved in a plot against embassies in Pakistan is not substantiated in the document.\n\n\nal Qaeda reached an understanding with the government of Iraq that al Qaeda would not work against that government and that on particular projects, specifically including weapons development, al Qaeda would work cooperatively with the Government of Iraq.\n\n\nAfter President Clinton ordered a four-day bombing campaign of Iraq, known as Operation Desert Fox, the Arabic language daily newspaper \"Al-Quds Al-Arabi\" speculated in an editorial that\n\nPresident Saddam Hussein, whose country was subjected to a four-day air strike, will look for support in taking revenge on the United States and Britain by cooperating with Saudi oppositionist Osama bin Laden, whom the United States considers to be the most wanted person in the world.\n\n\nSaddam Hussayn and Usama bin Ladin have sealed a pact. Faruk Hidjazi, the former Director of the Iraqi Secret Services and now the country's Ambassador to Turkey, held a secret meeting with the extremist leader on 21 December.\n\nThe newspaper had quotes from Hijazi, without specifying the source of the quotes.\n\n\"Newsweek \"magazine reported that Saddam Hussein is joining forces with al-Qaeda to launch joint terror strikes against the US and the UK. An Arab intelligence officer, reported to know Saddam personally, told \"Newsweek:\" \"very soon, you will be witnessing large-scale terrorist activity by the Iraqis.\" The planned attacks were said to be Saddam's revenge for the \"continuing aggression\" posed by the no-fly zones that showed the countries were still at war since Operation Desert Fox. The planned attacks never materialized, and at the time officials questioned the validity of the claim.\n\nThe same \"Newsweek\" article also said\n\nSaddam may think he's too good for such an association [with bin Laden]. Jerold Post, a political psychologist and government consultant who has profiled Saddam, says he thinks of himself as a world leader like Castro or Tito, not a thug. 'I'm skeptical that Saddam would resort to terrorism,' says a well informed administration official.\n\n\nABC News has learned that in December, an Iraqi intelligence chief, named Farouk Hijazi, now Iraq's ambassador to Turkey, made a secret trip to Afghanistan to meet with bin Laden. Three intelligence agencies tell ABC News they cannot be certain what was discussed, but almost certainly, they say, bin Laden has been told he would be welcome in Baghdad.\n\nThis story is repeated by CNN on 13 February. The article reports that \"Iraqi President Saddam Hussein has offered asylum to bin Laden, who openly supports Iraq against the Western powers.\"\n\nIndeed, intelligence agencies tracked contacts between Iraqi agents and Al Qaeda agents in the '90s in Sudan and Afghanistan, where bin Laden is believed to have met with Farouk Hijazi, head of Iraqi intelligence. But current and former intelligence specialists caution that such meetings occur just as often between enemies as friends. Spies frequently make contact with rogue groups to size up their intentions, gauge their strength, or try to infiltrate their ranks, they said.\n\nA 2005 article in \"The Weekly Standard\" claimed that the Russian state-owned news agency \"RIA Novosti\" reported in 1999 that\n\nhundreds of Afghan Arabs are undergoing sabotage training in Southern Iraq and are preparing for armed actions on the Iraqi-Kuwaiti border. They have declared as their goal a fight against the interests of the United States in the region.\n\nIn the same article, \"The Weekly Standard\" claimed that the Kuwaiti government detained some al Qaeda members at the border but notes that the Kuwaiti government did not respond to requests for more information about these alleged detainees.\n\n\nSaddam Hussein allegedly cuts off all contact with al-Qaeda, according to Khalil Ibrahim Abdallah, a former Iraqi intelligence officer in U.S. custody.\n\n\n\nTwo unidentified Iraqi men are arrested in Germany on suspicion of spying. According to \"The Weekly Standard\", an Arabic newspaper in Paris called \"Al-Watan al-Arabi\" reported\n\nThe arrests came in the wake of reports that Iraq was reorganizing the external branches of its intelligence service and that it had drawn up a plan to strike at US interests around the world through a network of alliances with extremist fundamentalist parties.\n\nThe same article also reported that\n\nThe most serious report contained information that Iraq and Osama bin Ladin were working together. German authorities were surprised by the arrest of the two Iraqi agents and the discovery of Iraqi intelligence activities in several German cities. German authorities, acting on CIA recommendations, had been focused on monitoring the activities of Islamic groups linked to bin Ladin. They discovered the two Iraqi agents by chance and uncovered what they considered to be serious indications of cooperation between Iraq and bin Ladin. The matter was considered so important that a special team of CIA and FBI agents was sent to Germany to interrogate the two Iraqi spies.\n\nThis report and the interrogation records of the detained Iraqi agents were not discussed in the 9/11 Commission Report, and do not seem to be mentioned in other media sources. It is not known whether the arrests revealed any cooperation between the men and either Iraqi intelligence or al Qaeda.\n\n\nAccording to the January 2003 CIA report \"Iraqi Support for Terrorism\", \"the most reliable reporting to date casts doubt on this possibility\" that such a meeting occurred.\n\n\nWell, on something like the Atta meeting in Prague, we went over that every which way from Sunday. We looked at it from every conceivable angle. We peeled open the source, examined the chain of acquisition. We looked at photographs. We looked at timetables. We looked at who was where and when. It is wrong to say that we didn't look at it. In fact, we looked at it with extraordinary care and intensity and fidelity.\n\n\nEven the Czechs, who initially put out the reports about Atta's meeting with al-Ani, have gradually backed away. The Czech interior minister, Stanislav Gross, said in October that the two had met in April 2001. That version was altered slightly by Czech Prime Minister Miloš Zeman when he told CNN in November, 'Atta contacted some Iraqi agent, not to prepare the terrorist attack on [the twin towers] but to prepare [a] terrorist attack on just the building of Radio Free Europe' in Prague. Then, in December, Czech President Václav Havel retreated further, saying there was only 'a 70 percent' chance Atta met with al-Ani.\n\n\nIn his interactions with other students, Atta voiced virulently anti-Semitic and anti-American opinions, ranging from condemnations of what he described as a global Jewish movement centered in New York City that supposedly controlled the financial world and the media, to polemics against governments of the Arab world. To him, Saddam Hussein was an American stooge set up to give Washington an excuse to intervene in the Middle East.\n\nThe 9/11 Commission also addressed the question of an alleged Prague connection and listed many of the reasons above that such a meeting could not have taken place. The report notes that\n\nthe FBI has gathered intelligence indicating that Atta was in Virginia Beach on 4 April (as evidenced by a bank surveillance camera photo), and in Coral Springs, Florida on 11 April, where he and Shehhi leased an apartment. On 6, 9, 10, and 11 April, Atta's cellular telephone was used numerous times to call various lodging establishments in Florida from cell sites within Florida. We cannot confirm that he placed those calls. But there are no U.S. records indicating that Atta departed the country during this period.\" Combining FBI and Czech intelligence investigations, \"[n]o evidence has been found that Atta was in the Czech Republic in April 2001.\n\nThe Commission still could not \"absolutely rule out the possibility\" that Atta was in Prague on 9 April traveling under an alias, but it concluded that\n\nThere was no reason for such a meeting, especially considering the risk it would pose to the operation. By April 2001, all four pilots had completed most of their training, and the muscle hijackers were about to begin entering the United States. The available evidence does not support the original Czech report of an Atta-Ani meeting.\n\n\nWe had one report early on from another intelligence service that suggested that the lead hijacker, Mohamed Atta, had met with Iraqi intelligence officials in Prague, Czechoslovakia. And that reporting waxed and waned where the degree of confidence in it, and so forth, has been pretty well knocked down now at this stage, that that meeting ever took place. \n\nAccording to David Rose, a reporter for \"Vanity Fair\", Marwan al-Shehhi and Ziad Jarrah, two of the 9/11 hijackers, supposedly met with an unidentified Mukhabarat officer. Rose claims he was told this story by members of the Iraqi National Congress. Their credibility, however, has since been impugned on this matter.\n\n\nThere are indications that by then (2001) the Iraqi regime tolerated and may even have helped Ansar al-Islam against the common Kurdish enemy.\n\nFurthermore, al-Shamari, sitting in a Kurdish prison, has said that Saddam Hussein supported Ansar al Islam because he wanted to \"foment unrest in the pro-American Kurdish area of Iraq.\"\n\nWhile the White House has attempted to link the group directly to Hussein's intelligence agents, both the CIA and MI6 insist that all their intelligence suggests the group operates in [an] area over which Saddam has no control.\n\n\nFar from being \"harbored\" by Saddam, Ansar al Islam operated out of northeastern Iraq, an area under Kurdish control that was being protected from Saddam's incursions by U.S. warplanes. Indeed, some of its members fought against Saddam during the Iran-Iraq war.\n\n\nSaddam may well have infiltrated the Ansar-ul-Islam with a view to monitoring the developments of the group (indeed it would be odd if he had not) but that appears to be about as far as his involvement with the group, and incidentally with al-Qaeda, goes.\n\nAckerman likewise notes that the \"far more likely explanation\" of Abu Wael's contact with Ansar al-Islam, \"is that the dictator had placed an agent in the group not to aid them, as Powell implied to the Security Council, but to keep tabs on a potential threat to his own regime.\" Additionally, while Mullah Krekar has expressed admiration for bin Laden, he has denied any actual links to al-Qaeda, stating, \"I have never met with him, nor do I have any contacts [with him].\"\n\nAs one of the first journalists to enter the research facilities at the Darunta camp in eastern Afghanistan in 2001, I was struck by how crude they were. The Ansar al-Islam terrorist group's alleged chemical weapons factory in northern Iraq, which I inspected the day after its capture in 2003, was even more rudimentary.\n\nA general in the Iraqi intelligence, Habib Faris Abdullah al-Mamouri, allegedly meets with Mohammed Atta, the 9/11 hijacker Daniel McGrory, the reporter who claims this information came from Italian intelligence, admits, \"There is no proof the men were in direct contact.\" A June or July meeting in Rome is completely at odds with everything known about Atta's whereabouts in mid-2001.\n\n\nbin Laden 'continues to smile and still thinks seriously, with the seriousness of the Bedouin of the desert about the way he will try to bomb the Pentagon after he destroys the White House.'\n\nThe opinion piece also claims that\n\nBin Ladin is insisting very convincingly that he will strike America on the arm that is already hurting\n\nand that the U.S.\n\nwill curse the memory of Frank Sinatra every time he hears his songs.\n\n\nIn other words, the World Trade Towers. Here, over a year ahead of time in the open press in Iraq, they are writing that this man is planning not only to bomb the White House, but where they are already hurting, the World Trade Towers.\n\nSenator Hollings read the opinion piece into the U.S. Congressional Record. Judge Baer also interprets this opinion piece as an allusion to the once-bombed World Trade Center.\n\nAbu Zubayr, an al-Qaeda cell leader in Morocco, allegedly meets with Ramzi bin al-Shibh, who was a facilitator for the 9/11 attacks. It is alleged that Abu Zubayr was also an officer in the Iraqi Mukhabarat. Abu Zubayr was arrested in Morocco in 2002, and while news accounts widely noted that he was \"one of the most important members of Al Qaeda to be captured,\" no mainstream source substantiated (or even mentioned) the allegation that the Saudi citizen, abu Zubayr, worked for the Iraqi Mukhabarat.\n\nJane's reports that Israel's military intelligence service, Aman, claims that for the past two years Iraqi intelligence officers were shuttling between Baghdad and Afghanistan, meeting with Ayman Al Zawahiri. According to the sources, one of the Iraqi intelligence officers, Salah Suleiman, was captured in October by the Pakistanis near the border with Afghanistan.\n\n\nSaddam viewed Al Qaeda as well as other theocratic radical Islamist organizations as a potential threat to his secular regime. At one point, analysts believed, Saddam considered infiltrating the ranks of Al Qaeda with Iraqi nationals or even Iraqi intelligence operatives to learn more about its inner workings, according to records and sources.\n\nThis PDB was one of the documents the Bush Administration refused to turn over to the Senate Report of Pre-war Intelligence on Iraq, even on a classified basis, and refuses to discuss other than to acknowledge its existence.\n\n\nSaddam has remained out of the public eye in his network of bunkers since the military alert at the end of August and moved his two wives, Sajida and Samira, away from the presidential palaces in Baghdad to Tikrit, his home town to the north.\n\nWhile the article reports that the \"US is understood to have found no hard evidence linking Baghdad directly to the kamikaze attacks,\" it also cites Western intelligence officials as saying that\n\nthe Iraqi leader had been providing al-Qaeda, Osama bin Laden's terrorist network, with funding, logistical back-up and advanced weapons training. His operations reached a 'frantic pace' in the past few months.\n\n\n\nIsolated internally by his paranoia over personal security, and externally by his misreading of international events, Saddam missed a major opportunity to reduce tensions with the United States following the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks. By failing to condemn the attacks and express sympathy to the American people, Saddam reinforced US suspicions about his connections to Al Qa'ida and certified Iraq's credentials as a rogue state. He told his ministers that after all the hardships the Iraqi people had suffered under sanctions he could not extend official condolences to the United States, the government most responsible for blocking sanctions relief. From a practical standpoint, Saddam probably also believed—mistakenly—that his behavior toward the United States was of little consequence, as sanctions were on the verge of collapse.\n\nThe internal debate among Iraqi officials, according to the Duelfer Report, suggested that these officials were wary of Iraq being wrongly associated with al-Qaeda\n\nSome ministers recognized that the United States intended to take direct unilateral action, if it perceived that its national security was endangered, and argued that the best course of action was to 'step forward and have a talk with the Americans.' Also concerned with the assertion of a connection between Iraq and its 'terrorist allies,' they felt they must 'clarify' to the Americans that 'we are not with the terrorists'\n\nIn November 2001, a month after the 11 September attacks, Mubarak al-Duri was contacted by the Sudanese intelligence who informed him that the FBI had sent Jack Cloonan and several other agents, to speak with a number of people known to have ties to Bin Laden. Al Duri and another Iraqi colleague agreed to meet with Cloonan in a safe house overseen by the intelligence service. They were asked whether there was any possible connection between Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda, and laughed stating that Bin Laden hated the dictator, who he believed was a \"Scotch-drinking, woman-chasing apostate.\"\n\n\nThe operation raises the possibility that Iraq quietly funneled money to Al Qaeda by deliberately choosing an oil company working with one of the terrorist group's alleged financial backers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAnd the question of relationship between Iraq and al Qaeda is an interesting one. I don't have information post-2001 when I got involved in a trial, and I don't have information post-11 September. I can tell you what led to that inclusion in that sealed indictment in May and then when we superseded, which meant we broadened the charges in the Fall, we dropped that language. We understood there was a very, very intimate relationship between al Qaeda and the Sudan. They worked hand in hand. We understood there was a working relationship with Iran and Hezbollah, and they shared training. We also understood that there had been antipathy between al Qaeda and Saddam Hussein because Saddam Hussein was not viewed as being religious. We did understand from people, including al-Fadl—and my recollection is that he would have described this most likely in public at the trial that we had, but I can't tell you that for sure; that was a few years ago—that at a certain point they decided that they wouldn't work against each other and that we believed a fellow in al Qaeda named Mondu Saleem, Abu Harzai the Iraqi, tried to reach a, sort of, understanding where they wouldn't work against each other. Sort of, the enemy of my enemy is my friend. And that there were indications that within Sudan when al Qaeda was there—which al Qaeda left in the summer of '96 or spring '96—there were efforts to work on joint—you know, acquiring weapons. Clearly, al Qaeda worked with the Sudan in getting those weapons in the national defense force there and the intelligence service. There were indications that al-Fadl had heard from others that Iran was involved. And they also had heard that Iraq was involved. The clearest account from al-Fadl as a Sudanese was that he had dealt directly with the Sudanese intelligence service, so we had firsthand knowledge of that. We corroborated the relationship with Iran to a lesser extent but to a solid extent. And then we had information from al-Fadl, who we believe was truthful, learning from others that there were also was efforts to try to work with Iraq. That was the basis for what we put in that indictment. Clearly, we put Sudan in the first order at that time as being the partner of al Qaeda. We understood the relationship with Iran but Iraq, we understood, went from a position where they were working against each other to a standing down against each other. And we understood they were going to explore the possibility of working on weapons together. That's my piece of what I know. I don't represent to know everything else, so I can't tell you, well, what we've learned since then. But there was that relationship that went from opposing each other to not opposing each other to possibly working with each other.\n\n\n\nCommissioner John Lehman, a Republican, came to the defense of Vice President Dick Cheney, who is the most aggressive in contending that there were strong Iraqi ties to Al Qaeda. Lehman said new intelligence that 'we are now in the process of getting\" indicates one of Hussein's Fedayeen fighters, a lieutenant colonel, was a prominent Al Qaeda member.' Cheney has said he probably has intelligence the commission does not have, and 'the vice president was right when he said that,' Lehman said on NBC's 'Meet the Press.' Lehman said the news media were 'outrageously irresponsible' to portray the staff report as contradicting what the administration said. The commission's vice chairman, former representative Lee Hamilton, Democrat of Indiana, said the White House and the commission agree on the central point: There is no evidence of a collaborative relationship between Al Qaeda and Iraq in the attacks of 11 September 2001, on the United States.\n\n\nI believe very strongly that Saddam had relations with al-Qaida. And these relations started in Sudan. We know Saddam had relationships with a lot of terrorists and international terrorism. Now, whether he is directly connected to the September – atrocities or not, I can't – vouch for this. But definitely I know he has connections with extremism and terrorists.\n\n\nFormed in December 2001 out of a conglomeration of Kurdish Islamist groups, [Ansar al-Islam] is closely allied with and receives both ideological and strategic inspiration from al Qaeda. A number of Ansar members trained at al Qaeda camps in Afghanistan, and the group provided safe haven to al Qaeda and affiliated terrorist groups until its operations were disrupted during Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) ... In August 2002, Dr. Rohan Gunaratna, who has described Ansar as a 'very important' group within the larger framework of bin Laden's World Islamic Front for Jihad Against the Jews and Crusaders stated, '[Ansar] has received limited support from Iraq, and I stress limited.' According to Dr. Gunaratna, Ansar received support from Iraqi agents with the specific intention of infiltrating the anti-PUK group and not to strengthen the Islamist group; Ansar remains an anti-Saddam and an anti-Western group. Some commentators would draw a different conclusion with respect to the nature of Ansar's relationship with Saddam, especially in the period immediately prior to OIF. According various reports, as well as claims made by US and PUK officials prior to OIF, the Iraqi regime helped to smuggle weapons to Ansar from Afghanistan. According to another report, PUK explosives experts believe that the Iraqi military intelligence supplied Ansar with TNT, which was in addition to other weaponry that was supplied to Ansar from areas under Baathist control. Another indication of links between al Qaeda and Saddam Hussein's regime, which the Bush administration cited, are the activities of Abu Musab Zarqawi, who is believed to have run one of Ansar's terrorist training camps in northern Iraq prior to OIF.\n\nIn this document, Dr. Gunaratna noted that Saddam's relationship with Ansar was one of spying and infiltration rather than cooperation:\n\nQassem Hussein, another Iraqi intelligence officer now in Kurdish custody, has stated that Abu Wael is the true leader within Ansar. However, Rohan Gunaratna believes that Qassem Hussein is likely to be a penetration agent with hidden loyalties to Saddam. As Ansar was anti-PUK and the PUK was supported by the U.S. Saddam was very interested to use Ansar against the PUK. Therefore, Qassem may have been providing Abu Wael with a cover story.\n\nDr. Gunaratna concluded in his own study of the relationship between Iraq and al-Qaeda that \"there is no conclusive evidence of Iraqi assistance to Al Qaeda ... The documentation and interviews indicated that Al Qaeda regarded Saddam, a secular leader, as an infidel\" and warned in February 2003 that \"an invasion of Iraq would give a new lease on life to existing and emerging terrorist groups.\"\n\n\"Iraq is attracting Islamic militants from across the world determined to join the 'holy war' against the US-led occupation,\" the son of Osama bin Laden's mentor Abdullah Azzam told AFP in an interview. \"Hundreds of Muslims from all over Arab and non-Arab countries go to Iraq to help the resistance end the occupation, spurred by the conviction that jihad is a duty against the occupier,\" said Hudayfa Azzam ... \"The Iraqi resistance was the fruit of the American occupation\" and buyoed by the \"fatwa (religious decree) which considers jihad a duty when a Muslim country is occupied,\" he said.\n\n\n\n\nI told the Americans a long time before 2 August [1990, the day Iraq invaded Kuwait and the U.S./Iraqi relationship changed dramatically] and told the British as well, I think Hamed was there keeping the meeting minutes with one of them, that in the future there will be terrorism with weapons of mass destruction. What prevents this technology from developing and people from smuggling it? All of this, before the stories of smuggling, before that, in 1989. I told them, 'In the future, what would prevent that we see a booby-trapped car causing a nuclear explosion in Washington or a germ or a chemical one?'\n\n\nWell, what was found – and this has been the pretty consistent story all along with regard to intelligence coverage of that topic – is there were various data points that were relevant to that issue, even some encounters or meetings held years ago in Sudan, other kinds of coincidences or two different names appearing in the same place. What it all added up to in the view of the judgment – in the judgment of the intelligence analysts working those particular issues was that you had two entities, one the Saddam regime and the other al-Qaeda, that were kind of feeling each other out, trying to stay aware of what they were doing, what each other was doing, but no indication of anything that could be described as a patron-client relationship or a sponsor-client relationship or an alliance. There were some of these coincidences and contacts, but that's hardly anything out of the ordinary and not something that adds up to state sponsorship.\n\nThe main thing that happened there, particularly with reference to this issue of, was there a relationship between the Saddam regime and al-Qaida – was a selective use of bits and pieces of reporting to try to build the case that in this case there was some kind of alliance without really reflecting the analytic judgment of the intelligence community that there was not.\"\n\n\nLike Zarqawi, many Arabs fleeing American retaliation in Afghanistan after 9/11 found refuge with Ansar al-Islam. But then came an unexpected development. According to Dr Muhammad al-Masari, a Saudi specialist on Al-Qaeda's ideology, Saddam established contact with the 'Afghan Arabs' as early as 2001, believing he would be targeted by the US once the Taliban was routed. In this version, disputed by other commentators, Saddam funded Al-Qaeda operatives to move into Iraq with the proviso that they would not undermine his regime. Sources close to the Ba'ath regime have told me that Saddam also used to send messengers to buy small plots of land from farmers in Sunni areas. In the middle of the night soldiers would bury arms and money caches for later use by the resistance. According to Masari, Saddam saw that Islam would be key to a cohesive resistance in the event of invasion. Iraqi army commanders were ordered to become practising Muslims and to adopt the language and spirit of the jihadis. On arrival in Iraq, Al-Qaeda operatives were put in touch with these commanders, who later facilitated the distribution of arms and money from Saddam's caches. Most commentators agree that Al-Qaeda was present in Iraq before the US invasion. The question is for how long and to what extent. What is known is that Zarqawi took a direct role in Al-Qaeda's infiltration. In March 2003 – it is not clear whether this was before or after the invasion began – he met Al-Qaeda's military strategist, an Egyptian called Muhammad Ibrahim Makkawi, and agreed to assist Al-Qaeda operatives entering Iraq.\n\n\nThat OBL and the Taliban are in contact with Iraq and that a group of Taliban and bin Laden group members visited Iraq. That the U.S. has proof the Iraqi government and 'bin Laden's group' agreed to cooperate to attack targets inside America. That in case the Taliban and bin Laden's group turn out to be involved in 'these destructive operations,' the U.S. may strike Iraq and Afghanistan. That the Afghan consul heard about the issue of Iraq's relationship with 'bin Laden's group' while he was in Iran.\n\nWhile stating that \"the controversial claim that Osama bin Laden was cooperating with Saddam Hussein is an ongoing matter of intense debate ... [and that] the assertions contained in this document clearly support the claim,\" ABC questioned the sourcing of the document and concluded that \"without further corroboration, this document is of limited evidentiary value.\" The \"Los Angeles Times\" notes that \"the documents do not appear to offer any new evidence of illicit activity by Hussein, or hint at preparations for the insurgency that followed the invasion.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33923235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33923235", "title": "Tripoli Post", "text": "Tripoli Post\n\nThe Tripoli Post was a newspaper that first appeared in 1999. Its objective was to communicate Libya’s news and views to the rest of the world.\n\nThe Tripoli Post and The Tripoli Post Online had focused on serving readers by making information available with regard to Libya’s politics, business, culture, sports, history and the country’s dynamic growing population. This was in addition to covering world events.\n"}
{"id": "47432924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47432924", "title": "VIN cloning", "text": "VIN cloning\n\nVIN cloning or car cloning, is a practice of using a vehicle identification number (VIN) from a legally registered car to hide the identity of a stolen or salvaged vehicle. The procedure involves replacing the serial plate of a stolen or salvage repaired vehicle with a plate containing the number of a validly registered vehicle of similar make, model and year from another state, province or country.\n\nThe use of this practice by organized theft rings is partially responsible for the creation of national databases such as the National Motor Vehicle Title Information System in the United States and the Personal Property Securities Register in Australia and New Zealand. \n\nThe problem with VIN cloning is potentially very large with the FBI reporting one case in Tampa, Florida, in which more than 1,000 cloned cars were sold to buyers in twenty states and several countries, with estimated losses of more than $27 million to consumers, auto insurers, and other victims. If the purchaser of a cloned vehicle has its true pedigree discovered, the car will be confiscated, and owner would still be responsible for any outstanding loans. \n\nIn some states in the United States, the car dealership may be held responsible. The owner of the legitimately registered vehicle the number belongs to, could potentially be accused of a variety of offenses – from parking tickets to serious criminal activity like organized crime. The victim could spend a great amount of time and money trying to prove that were not the owner of the cloned vehicle. The practice has also been reported in numerous countries including Canada, the United Kingdom, and Australia.\n"}
{"id": "7190256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7190256", "title": "Videotopia", "text": "Videotopia\n\nOriginally the brainchild of Keith Feinstein, Videotopia is a travelling science museum exhibition documenting the history of video games. It is based on a larger collection of video game machines, now housed at The Strong in Rochester, New York.\n\nIt includes a wide range of commercial video arcade machines and game consoles, and also interactive multimedia kiosks containing information about the history of the games' development and their impact on popular culture. By 1996, the exhibit had had 20,000 attendees. In 1998, Feinstein's collection included 300 machines, and the touring exhibit had 75 of them. By 2009 the touring exhibition included 100 machines, and the collection amounted to 15,000 items relating to video games.\n\nVideotopia was operated by Feinstein's longtime curatorial partner Jeff Anderson, who maintained the exhibit's vast game collection, based in New Jersey. Later Jon-Paul Dyson took over and the collection moved to the International Center for the History of Electronic Games at The Strong in Rochester, New York.\n\nVideotopia has been featured at numerous science museums in the U.S., such as the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia, as well as overseas and in selected performances of Video Games Live. Videotopia has been featured on television on CBS: This Morning, the History Channel, CNN, CNBC, and many local television news programs and written about in \"Forbes\" magazine, \"USA Today\", Technology Review, TICKET, and \"Next Generation\".\n\n"}
{"id": "57381226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57381226", "title": "Violence against women in the United States", "text": "Violence against women in the United States\n\nViolence against women in the United States is the use of domestic abuse, murder, sex-trafficking, rape and assault against women in the United States. It has been recognized as a public health concern. Culture in the United States has led towards the trivialization of violence towards women, with media in the United States possibly contributing to making women-directed violence appear unimportant to the public.\n\nThe history of laws and cultural taboos have a current effect on how new sexual assault laws are drafted, how the laws are applied by law enforcement and how police decide whether to arrest a suspected perpetrator. The history of sexual assault prosecutions influences whether or not current cases are taken to court. Judges and juries make decisions to convict based upon their past knowledge on the topic of sexual assault.\n\nThe imagery of women being sexually victimized in advertisements, pornography, films and music videos has been shown to increase support for violence toward women.\n\nIn a study published in 2008, it was found that in nearly 2,000 print advertisements of 58 magazines popular in the United States, 50% of ads depicted women as sex objects, appearing as a victim in about 10% of advertisements. The main magazines featuring sexual objectification of women were of the fashion and adolescent topics. These advertisements often portrayed women in various positions and expressions that were derived from pornography. The study also stated that women in the United States feel that rape is \"trivialized in American culture\" and concluded that \"media imagery that presents women as both sex object and as victims\" has possibly contributed to this trivialization.\n\nA 2016 study regarding the objectification of women in the media found that men's magazines, reality television and pornography brought upon more thoughts of objectification, which in turn led to more support of violence toward women. In the study's results, it is stated \"the relationship between objectifying media exposure and attitudes supportive of violence against women was fully mediated by notions of women as sex objects\".\n\nViolence against women can lead to immediate physical injuries and longer-term mental and physical health conditions. In addition to negatively impacting mental and physical health, violence against women can interfere with life at work, home, and school. In some cases, violence results in death.\n\nChildren exposed to violence are also at risk for developing mental and physical health problems. Depending on their age, children may react differently to exposure.\n\nAccording to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Institute of Justice, about 1 in every 4 women suffer from at least one physical assault experience from a partner during adulthood. A 2007 report found that in about 64% of female homicides were perpetrated by a partner or family member. Intimate partner abuse may also include other types behavior considered abusive. These are instances in which one partner seeks to control finances, force isolation from friends and family and dominate the relationship.\n\nWomen who have been identified as being at a higher risk for domestic and sexual abuse are older women, those living in rural communities, disabled women and immigrants. Addressing and preventing such violence may be difficult because some women do not have nearby access to victim services. A women may also have language barriers, economic and psychological dependence on the perpetrator.\n\nIn some instances of violence, a woman and her children may not be able to procure housing apart from the perpetrator. Between 22-57% and of these women become homeless. Due to housing regulations that practice a 'no tolerance' policy requiring eviction of all household members when even one person is convicted of any crime, battered women can then be homeless as a result. This practice essentially creates a disincentive for reporting violence in the home. Some women who have experienced violence in the home risk the loss of their jobs related to their need for medical treatment, counselling, finding new housing and legal protection.\n\nThe percentage of women who have been raped in the United States is between 15% and 20%, with various studies disagreeing with each other. (\"National Violence Against Women\" survey in 1995, 17.6% rate; a 2007 Department of Justice study on rape found 18% rate). About 500 women were raped per day in the United States in 2008. About 21.8% of rapes of female victims in the United States are gang rapes. \n\nA March 2013 report from the United States Department of Justice’s Bureau of Justice Statistics, from 1995 to 2010, the estimated annual rate of female rape or sexual assault had declined by 58%, from 5.0 victimizations per 1,000 females age 12 or older to 2.1 per 1,000. However, a study in 2013 regarding rape in the United States found that cases remain underreported. Law enforcement in the United States also manipulates rape statistics to \"create the illusion of success in fighting violent crime\" according to a 2014 study. When investigated, defendants are rarely convicted.\n\nSexual assault differs significantly from other crimes of assault. For sexual assault, the severity of the crime has been determined by establishing the victim's moral character, behavior, signs of resistance and verbal expressions of non-consensual participation. The crime of battery, another type of assault, is determined by the perpetrators actions and intent. The victim's response to this type of assault does not determine whether a crime has taken place or not. The victim does not have to demonstrate that they resisted, gave consent or have a history of being punched. In addition, the question of assault occurring after consent is given complicates the understanding of violence and injury - even if sex is consensual. Changes in the laws regarding some sexual acts may \"lead to the glorification of sexual violence\".\n\nA 2015 study by the University of Nebraska found that college women in the United States who were victims of sexual violence or partner violence began to self-objectificate themselves and felt body shame.\n\nForced sterilization is recognized as a type of gender-based violence. In the United States, Native American, Mexican American, African American and Puerto Rican-American women were coerced into sterilization programs, with Native Americans and African Americans especially being targeted. Many of these projects were a result of racism and eugenics in the United States. In total, 31 of 50 states had official eugenics programs with tens of thousands of women being sterilized.\n\nSince the days of European colonization, Europeans who arrived sought to control Native American populations in order to acquire more capital and resources from the newly discovered land. This resulted in policies of genocide and removal targeting Native American women and girls in order to procure land for settlements. Records have shown that Native American girls as young as eleven years-old had hysterectomies operations performed.\n\nRegarding African Americans, the origin of their population control was from the slavery in the United States. During the period of slave trade in the United States, African slaves were used as a mode of production, with slave women being forced into pregnancy to increase the slave labor force. This history of controlling African American populations motivated the future sterilization of African American women.\n\nIn 1927, Supreme Court of the United States endorsed eugenics programs in the country. The ruling pushed the eugenics movement further and resulted in more forced sterilizations of women. Involuntary euthanasia was also supported by American eugenists and practiced in rare instances, with the most promoted method of euthanasia being gas chambers, though it never gained footing in the United States and sterilization became preference.\n\nSupreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes penned:\n\nEugenics and sterilization programs in the United States would later inspire Nazi eugenics. The American private foundation Rockefeller Foundation assisted with the development and funding of numerous eugenics projects in Germany, including a program directed by Josef Mengele who would later perform human experimentation at Auschwitz. During the Nuremberg trials, Nazis used Holmes' above quote to defend themselves.\n\nNative American and Alaska Native women experience high rates of violence. These acts of violence include sexual assault, domestic violence, and sex trafficking. The US Department of Justice found that 84% of Native American and Alaskan Native women have suffered some form of violence. Of these, 56% have experienced sexual violence. Out of these, more than 90% were assaulted by a non-tribal member. These women report not being safe, and being pushed, shoved, or beaten. Many describe 'psychological aggression' and control. These counts may be underestimated. Native tribal courts are not able to prosecute non-tribal members for sexual assault and rape. Non-Native American men are responsible for most of the assaults against Native American women. Psychological aggression has been experienced by 66.4% by their partner. In the US, greater than 1.5 million American Indian and Alaska Native women have suffered violence during their life.\n\nOver 39% of American Indian and Alaska Native women have experienced violence in the past year. Of these, 14% percent were sexually abused, 9% were assaulted by their intimate partner, 12% were stalked and 25% experienced psychological aggression by their intimate partner. In the past year, over 730,000 American Indian and Alaska Native women experienced violence.\n\nNative American women and Alaska Native women, along with black women, have high murder rates when compared with other ethnicities. Women between ages 18 and 29 comprise 36.3% of Native American women and Alaska Native women murder victims. Intimate partner violence accounts for 47% of those murdered. Current intimate partners commit 81% of the murders and 12% are committed by a past intimate partner. Jealousy, arguments and preceding violent acts occur before the murder 66% of the time. Human trafficking of Native American Women and Alaska Native women is thought to also occur, but studies and statistics are lacking.\n\nWhen compared to other ethnicities, Native American women experience sexual assault and rape rates that are 2.5 higher. Though the Violence Against Women Act was reauthorized in 2013, most tribes struggle to fund jails, courts, jails, law enforcement, judges, and prevention programs.\n\nStatistics are lacking for violence against Native American women who reside on reservations. Data is unknown because no agency collects such information.\n\nImmigrants to the US have great difficulties when they try to leave violent relationships. If a perpetrator controls the immigration status, they can then use the threat of deportation to prevent the battered woman from contacting authorities and assistance agencies. Some legislation passed by the US Congress allowed immigrant victims to leave situations of domestic violence. Other proposed policies not yet in effect are designed to stop deportation of immigrants who have experienced domestic violence, sexual assault, and human trafficking.\n\nOn September 13, 1994, President Bill Clinton signed into law the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), which was drafted by Senator Joe Biden (D-DE) and co-written by Democrat Louise Slaughter. The Act granted $1.6 billion of funding for investigating and prosecuting violent crimes directed towards women, making compensation from those convicted automatic and mandatory. VAWA was accepted by Congress with bipartisan support, though House Republicans attempted to cut down on funding in 1995. VAWA created the Office on Violence Against Women, part of the Department of Justice.\n\nIn 2005, the American Civil Liberties Union expressed that \"VAWA is one of the most effective pieces of legislation enacted to end domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. It has dramatically improved the law enforcement response to violence against women and has provided critical services necessary to support women in their struggle to overcome abusive situations\".\n\nIn 2011, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Violence against Women, Rashida Manjoo, reported progress in regards to violence towards women in the United States, though she also made recommendations regarding African and Native Americans, immigrants, military personnel and those who are imprisoned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57448794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57448794", "title": "Warsaw Gallery Weekend", "text": "Warsaw Gallery Weekend\n\nWarsaw Gallery Weekend (WGW) – A yearly artistic event gathering selected private art galleries and organizing exhibitions and event.\n\nWarsaw Gallery Weekend Warsaw Gallery Weekend is modeled on similar initiatives actual event in other important artistic centers, such as the Berlin Gallery Weekend. During three days, the participated galleries present exhibitions under a common banner, organized meetings and other additional events. Warsaw Gallery Weekend cooperates with public institutions, including from Zachęta or Museum of Modern Art in Warsaw.\n\nThe first edition was held in 2011 under the name \"Where is art\". From 2012, the event has been named Warsaw Gallery Weekend and it takes place on the last weekend of September including Friday.\n\nThe first edition of the Warsaw Gallery Weekend took place on 22–23 September 2011 under the banner of \"Where is art\".\n\nThe following galleries participated in the first edition:: appendix2, Asymetria, BWA Warszawa, Czarna, Archeologia photography Foundation, Foksal Gallery Foundation, Profile Foundation, Heppen Transfer, Bocheńska Gallery, Kolonie, Le Guern, Leto, lokal_30, Galeria m2, Piktogram/BLA, Raster, Starter.\n\nWarsaw Gallery Weekend 2012 took place on 28, 29 and 30 September.\n\nThe following galleries participated in the second edition: Asymetria, Bohenska Gallery, BWA Warszawa, Czarna, Czułość, Archeologia photography Foundation, Foksal Gallery Foundation, Profile Foundation, Galeria m2, Kolonie, Le Guern, Leto, lokal_30, Pikotgram/BLA, Propaganda, Raster, Starter.\n\nWarsaw Gallery Weekend 2013 took place on 27, 28 and 29 September.\n\nIn the second edition, the following galleries took part: Aleksander Bruno, Asymetria, Bohenska Gallery, BWA Warszawa, Czułość, Dawid Radziszewski, Archeologia photography Foundation, Foksal Gallery foundation, Profile Foundation, Galeria m2, Le Guern, Leto, lokal_30, Pikotgram/BLA, Propaganda, Raster, Starter, Stereo.\n\nThe fourth edition of Warsaw Gallery Weekend brought organizational changes, mainly in the composition of the organizational team.\n\nIn 2014, the following galleries participated in the WGW: Asymetria, galeria Aleksander Bruno, BWA Warszawa, Czułość, Dawid Radziszewski, Archeologia photography Foundation, Arton Foundation, Foksal Gallery Foundation, Profile Foundation, Galeria Le Guern, Galeria m2, Kasia Michalski Gallery, Kohana, Leto, lokal_30, Lookout Gallery, Monopol, Piktogram, Pola Magnetyczne, Propaganda, Raster, Starter, Stereo, and the guest gallery Svit from Prague, Czech Republic.\n\nWGW 2014 was nominated for the Gazety Wyborczej Award.\n\nThe fifth edition of the Warsaw Gallery Weekend has been recognized as the largest of all and took place on 25, 26, 27 September 2015.\n\nIn 2015, the following galleries participated in the event: Asymetria, BWA Warszawa, Czułość, Dawid Radziszewski, Fundacja Archeologia photography Foundation, Arton Foundation, Foksal Gallery Foundation, Profile Foundation, Galeria Le Guern, Galeria m2, Kasia Michalski Gallery, Kohana, Leto, lokal_30, Lookout Gallery, Monopol, Piktogram, Pola Magnetyczne, Propaganda, Raster, Starter, Stereo.\n\nThe organizers were Michał Kaczyński from the Raster gallery, Marta Kołakowska from the Leto gallery, Justyna Kowalska from BWA Warsaw and Jacek Sosnowski from the Propaganda gallery.\n"}
{"id": "35630468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35630468", "title": "XVII Paloma O'Shea International Piano Competition", "text": "XVII Paloma O'Shea International Piano Competition\n\nThe 17th Paloma O'Shea International Piano Competition took place in the Festival Palace of Santander, Spain from July 27 to August 8, 2012. Twenty pianists from ten countries took part in the competition. For the fifth time the First Prize was not awarded; Ahn Ah-ruem won the Second Prize while Tamar Beraia and János Palojtay shared the Third Prize. Beraia was awarded the Audience Prize.\n\n Antoni Ros Marbà \"(chairman)\"<br>\n"}
