{"id": "38412070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38412070", "title": "1965 in philosophy", "text": "1965 in philosophy\n\n1965 in philosophy\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32183825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32183825", "title": "Abu Hatim Ahmad ibn Hamdan al-Razi", "text": "Abu Hatim Ahmad ibn Hamdan al-Razi\n\nAbū Ḥātim Aḥmad ibn Ḥamdān al-Rāzī () was a Persian Ismaili philosopher of the 9th century, who died in 322 AH (935 CE). He was also the Da'i al-Mutlaq \"(chief missionary)\" of Ray and the leader of the Ismaili da'wah in Central Persia.\n\nHe was born in Rayy near modern Tehran. He was a contemporary of Muhammad ibn Zakariya al-Razi and engaged in debates with him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3978412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3978412", "title": "Adaptive representation", "text": "Adaptive representation\n\nAdaptive representation is an extension by Francis Heylighen to Kant's theory of knowledge.\n\nAccording to Kant, perception passes by the filters of the mind who observes the phenomena. In this line, there exists in the human mind invariant and \"a priori\" principles of experience. As an example, one may have imprinted in the brain a Cartesian representation of space, a notion of time, color separation and others. This may be called \"static representation\".\n\nHeylighen has proposed a revision of these Kantian ideas, in which these principles are not supposed to be invariant and necessary [[A priori and \"a priori\"; instead alternative principles exist for the organization of experience in adaptive representations. This opens a path for new investigations in the [[philosophy of mind]] and human [[cognition]].\n\n\n[[Category:Epistemology]]\n"}
{"id": "53333348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53333348", "title": "Adiyogi Shiva statue", "text": "Adiyogi Shiva statue\n\nThe \"Adiyogi\" statue is a excluding plinth, and statue of the Hindu deity Shiva with white Thirunamam at Coimbatore in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu, which has been recognized by the \"Guinness World Records\" as the \"Largest Bust Sculpture” in the world. Designed by Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev, founder of the Isha Foundation, it was built by the foundation and weighs around . Sadhguru said that the statue is for inspiring and promoting yoga, and is named \"Adiyogi\", which means \"the first yogi\", because Shiva is known as the originator of yoga. \n\n\"Adiyogi\" was inaugurated on 24 February 2017 by the Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi, on the occasion of Maha Shivaratria Hindu festival celebrated annually in honour of Shiva. The Indian Ministry of Tourism has included the statue as a consecration destination in its official Incredible India campaign. The Adiyogi Statue has been recognized as the \"Largest Bust Sculpture\" by Guinness World Records.\n\n\"Adiyogi\" is located at the Isha Yoga complex which houses the Dhyanalinga in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu at the foothills of Velliangiri Mountains, a range in the Western Ghats. The statue was designed over two years and manufactured within eight months. The bust is cast in steel. The height of the statue, , symbolizes the 112 possibilities to attain to \"moksha\" (liberation) that are mentioned in yogic culture. Sadhguru also said that the height represents the 112 chakras in the human system.\n\nThe Isha Foundation plans to erect such statues in three more locations in the eastern, western and northern parts of India - in Varanasi, Mumbai and Delhi. The statue's face is world's tallest bust of Shiva. The tallest Shiva statue is the Kailashnath Mahadev Statue in Nepal 20-km east of the capital, Katmandu, which is tall.\n\nA Linga called \"Yogeshwar Linga\" was consecrated through the ceremony called prana pratishtha, and is placed in front of the \"Adiyogi\" statue. This linga has five chakrasMuladhara (root chakra), Svadhishthana (sacral chakra), Manipura (solar plexus chakra), Vishuddhi (throat chakra), and Ajna (third eye chakra), and each one of them has sixteen dimensions. The linga specifically has no Anahata (heart chakra) as it is to represent \"a heartless yogi\", not heartless as being insensitive but inclusive who doesn't need emotions. Sadhguru notes that the statue is named as \"Adiyogi\", which means \"the first yogi\", as Shiva is known as the originator of yoga. The South-facing Adiyogi is also called Dakshinamurthy and Adi Guru (first Guru).\n\nIn 2014, on Guru Poornima, a version of the same statue was unveiled at the Isha Yoga Center. This version weighed 30 tonnes and was constructed in three months by a team of fifteen people. This statue was also made of steel. On 30 January 2017, a replica model of the statue was taken out in a procession. \n\nThe main statue was inaugurated by Narendra Modi on Maha Shivaratri, 24 February 2017. He also inaugurated the book \"Adiyogi: The Source of Yoga\" written by Sadhguru and Arundhathi Subramaniam, and lit the yajna fire for the Maha Yoga Yagna. Notable politicians present at the event include Tamil Nadu Governor C. Vidyasagar Rao, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje Scindia, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu, Minister Pon Radhakrishnan, and Puducherry Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi. Along with politicians, various celebrities from Bollywood as well as Kollywood like actresses Juhi Chawla and Kajal Aggarwal were also present. \n\nTo mark the unveiling of the statue, the song \"Adiyogi - The source of Yoga\" was released by the Isha Foundation on YouTube on 19 February 2017. The song was sung and composed by Kailash Kher with the lyrics being written by Prasoon Joshi and also performed live at the inaugural function by Kher. Narendra Modi at the inauguration mentioned that \"[by] practising Yoga, a spirit of oneness is created. Oneness of mind, body and the intellect, oneness with our families and with the society we live in, with fellow humans and with birds, animals and trees.\" Another statue of Adiyogi was unveiled in Tennessee, USA, in October 2015 by the Isha Foundation. The abode called \"Adiyogi: The Abode of Yoga\" in Tennessee is spread over a area and the project cost over $8 million.\n\nVarious environmental activists and groups protested the inauguration claiming that the statue was built in the catchment area of the Noyyal River, thus affecting biodiversity and violating building bylaws. A Public Interest Litigation was also filed by Vellingiri Hill Tribal Protection Society in the Madras High Court challenging the construction of the statue. The Isha Foundation however stated that it has acquired all the required approvals of the construction. On 1 March 2017, the Deputy Director of Town and Country Planning filed their report stating that the statue and various buildings like the arch, road, a parking lot and \"mandapams\" (outdoor hall or pavilion) were constructed without taking proper approvals. The matter is currently \"sub judice\" as the High Court will await for responses from all the concerned twelve respondents in the case before taking the decision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "257241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=257241", "title": "Antonio Negri", "text": "Antonio Negri\n\nAntonio \"Toni\" Negri (born 1 August 1933) is an Italian Marxist sociologist and political philosopher, best known for his co-authorship of \"Empire\" and secondarily for his work on Spinoza.\n\nBorn in Padua, he became a political philosophy professor in his hometown university. Negri founded the \"Potere Operaio\" (Worker Power) group in 1969 and was a leading member of \"Autonomia Operaia\". As one of the most popular theorists of Autonomism, he has published hugely influential books urging \"revolutionary consciousness.\"\n\nHe was accused in the late 1970s of various charges including being the mastermind of the left-wing terrorist organization Red Brigades (\"Brigate Rosse\" or BR), involved in the May 1978 kidnapping of Aldo Moro, two-time Prime Minister of Italy, and leader of the Christian-Democrat Party, among others. He was wrongly suspected to have made a threatening phone call on behalf of the BR, but the court was unable to conclusively prove his ties. The question of Negri's complicity with left-wing extremism is a controversial subject. He was indicted on a number of charges, including \"association and insurrection against the state\" (a charge which was later dropped), and sentenced for involvement in two murders.\n\nNegri fled to France where, protected by the Mitterrand doctrine, he taught at the Paris VIII (Vincennes) and the Collège international de philosophie, along with Jacques Derrida, Michel Foucault and Gilles Deleuze. In 1997, after a plea-bargain that reduced his prison time from 30 to 13 years, he returned to Italy to serve the end of his sentence. Many of his most influential books were published while he was behind bars. He now lives in Venice and Paris with his partner, the French philosopher Judith Revel.\n\nAntonio Negri was born in Padua, in the Northeastern Italian region of Veneto, in 1933. His father was an active communist militant from the city of Bologna (in the Northeastern Italian region of Emilia-Romagna), and although he died when Negri was two years old, his political engagement made Negri familiar with Marxism from an early age, while his mother was a teacher from the town of Poggio Rusco (in province of Mantua, Lombardy). He began his career as a militant in the 1950s with the activist Roman Catholic youth organization \"Gioventú Italiana di Azione Cattolica (GIAC).\" Negri became a communist in 1953–54 when he worked at a kibbutz in Israel for a year. The kibbutz was organised according to ideas of Zionist socialism and all the members were Jewish communists. He joined the Italian Socialist Party in 1956 and remained a member until 1963, while at the same time becoming more and more engaged throughout the late 1950s and early 1960s in Marxist movements.\n\nHe had a quick academic career at the University of Padua and was promoted to full professor at a young age in the field of \"dottrina dello Stato\" (State theory), a peculiarly Italian field that deals with juridical and constitutional theory. This might have been facilitated by his connections to influential politicians such as Raniero Panzieri and philosopher Norberto Bobbio, strongly engaged with the Socialist Party.\n\nIn the early 1960s Negri joined the editorial group of \"Quaderni Rossi\", a journal that represented the intellectual rebirth of Marxism in Italy outside the realm of the communist party.\n\nIn 1969, together with Oreste Scalzone and Franco Piperno, Negri was one of the founders of the group Potere Operaio (Workers' Power) and the \"Operaismo\" (workerist) Communist movement. \"Potere Operaio\" disbanded in 1973 and gave rise to the Autonomia Operaia Organizzata (Organised Workers' Autonomy) movement.\n\nOn 16 March 1978, Aldo Moro, former Italian prime minister and Christian Democrat party leader, was kidnapped in Rome by the Red Brigades, his five-man body guard murdered on the spot of the kidnapping in Rome's Via Fani. While they were holding him, forty-five days after the kidnapping, the Red Brigades called his family on the phone, informing Moro's wife of her husband's impending death. Nine days later his body, shot in the head, was found dumped in a city lane. The conversation was recorded, and later broadcast and televised. A number of people who knew Negri and remembered his voice identified him as the probable author of the call, but the claim has been since dismissed: the author of the call was, in fact, Valerio Morucci.\n\nOn 7 April 1979, at the age of forty-six, Antonio Negri was arrested for his part in the Autonomy Movement, along with others (Emilio Vesce, Luciano Ferrari Bravo, Mario Dalmaviva, Lauso Zagato, Oreste Scalzone, Pino Nicotri, Alisa del Re, Carmela di Rocco, Massimo Tramonte, Sandro Serafini, Guido Bianchini, and others). Padova's Public Prosecutor Pietro Calogero accused them of being involved in the political wing of the Red Brigades, and thus behind left-wing terrorism in Italy. Negri was charged with a number of offenses, including leadership of the Red Brigades, masterminding the 1978 kidnapping and murder of the President of the Christian Democratic Party Aldo Moro, and plotting to overthrow the government. At the time, Negri was a political science professor at the University of Padua and visiting lecturer at Paris' École Normale Supérieure. The Italian public was shocked that an academic could be involved in such events.\n\nA year later, Negri was exonerated from Aldo Moro's kidnapping after a leader of the BR, having decided to cooperate with the prosecution, testified that Negri \"had nothing to do with the Red Brigades.\" The charge of 'armed insurrection against the State' against Negri was dropped at the last moment, and because of this he did not receive the 30-year plus life sentence requested by the prosecutor, but only 30 years for being the instigator of political activist Carlo Saronio's murder and having 'morally concurred' with the murder of Andrea Lombardini, a carabinier, during a failed bank robbery.\n\nHis philosopher peers saw little fault with Negri's activities. Michel Foucault commented, \"Isn't he in jail simply for being an intellectual?\" French philosophers Félix Guattari and Gilles Deleuze also signed in November 1977 \"L'Appel des intellectuels français contre la répression en Italie\" (The Call of French Intellectuals Against Repression in Italy) in protest against Negri's imprisonment and Italian anti-terrorism legislation.\n\nIn 1983, four years after his arrest and while he was still in prison awaiting trial, Negri was elected to the Italian legislature as a member for the Radical Party. Claiming parliamentary immunity, he was temporarily released and used his freedom to escape to France. There he remained for 14 years, writing and teaching, protected from extradition in virtue of the \"Mitterrand doctrine\". His refusal to stand trial in Italy was widely criticized by Italian media and by the Italian Radical Party, who had supported his candidacy to Parliament.\n\nIn France, Negri began teaching at the Paris VIII (Vincennes) and the Collège international de philosophie, founded by Jacques Derrida. Although the conditions of his residence in France prevented him from engaging in political activities, he wrote prolifically and was active in a broad coalition of left-wing intellectuals. In 1990 Negri with Jean-Marie Vincent and Denis Berger founded the journal \"Futur Antérieur\". (The journal ceased publication in 1998 but was reborn as \"Multitudes\" in 2000, with Negri as a member of the international editorial board.)\n\nIn 1997, after a plea-bargain that reduced his prison time from 30 to 13 years, Negri returned to Italy to serve the end of his sentence. He was released from prison in the spring of 2003, having written some of his most influential works while behind bars.\n\nIn the late 1980s the Italian President Francesco Cossiga described Antonio Negri as \"a psychopath\" who \"poisoned the minds of an entire generation of Italy's youth.\"\n\nUnlike other forms of Marxism, autonomist Marxism emphasises the ability of the working class to force changes to the organization of the capitalist system independent of the state, trade unions or political parties. Autonomists are less concerned with party political organization than are other Marxists, focusing instead on self-organized action outside of traditional organizational structures. Autonomist Marxism is thus a \"bottom-up\" theory: it draws attention to activities that autonomists see as everyday working-class resistance to capitalism, for example absenteeism, slow working, and socialization in the workplace. The journal \"Quaderni Rossi\" (\"Red Notebooks\"), produced between 1961 and 1965, and its successor \"Classe Operaia\" (\"Working Class\"), produced between 1963 and 1966, were also influential in the development of early autonomism. Both were founded by Antonio Negri and Mario Tronti.\n\nToday, Antonio Negri is best known as the co-author, with Michael Hardt, of the controversial Marxist-inspired treatise \"Empire\" (2000).\n\nIn 2009 Negri completed the book \"Commonwealth\", the final in a trilogy that began in 2000 with \"Empire\" and continued with \"Multitude\" in 2004, co-authored with Michael Hardt.\n\nSince \"Commonwealth\", he has written multiple notable articles on the Arab Spring and Occupy movements along with other social issues.\n\nIn this book the authors ask themselves \"How is it, then, that labor, with all its life-affirming potential, has become the means of capitalist discipline, exploitation, and domination in modern society?\" The authors expose and pursue this paradox through a systematic analysis of the role of labor in the processes of capitalist production and in the establishment of capitalist legal and social institutions. Critiquing liberal and socialist notions of labor and institutional reform from a radical democratic perspective, Hardt and Negri challenge the state-form itself.\n\nThis book written solely by Negri \"explores the drama of modern revolutions-from Machiavelli’s Florence and Harrington’s England to the American, French, and Russian revolutions-and puts forward a new notion of how power and action must be understood if we are to achieve a radically democratic future.\"\n\nIn general, the book theorizes an ongoing transition from a \"modern\" phenomenon of imperialism, centered around individual nation-states, to an emergent postmodern construct created among ruling powers which the authors call \"Empire\", with different forms of warfare:\n...according to Hardt and Negri's \"Empire\", the rise of Empire is the end of national conflict, the \"enemy\" now, whoever he is, can no longer be ideological or national. The enemy now must be understood as a kind of criminal, as someone who represents a threat not to a political system or a nation but to the law. This is the enemy as a terrorist...In the \"new order that envelops the entire space of... civilization\", where conflict between nations has been made irrelevant, the \"enemy\" is simultaneously \"banalized\" (reduced to an object of routine police repression) and absolutized (as the Enemy, an absolute threat to the ethical order\").\n\n\"Empire\" elaborates a variety of ideas surrounding constitutions, global war, and class. Hence, the Empire is constituted by a monarchy (the United States and the G8, and international organizations such as NATO, the International Monetary Fund or the World Trade Organization), an oligarchy (the multinational corporations and other nation-states) and a democracy (the various non-government organizations and the United Nations). Part of the book's analysis deals with \"imagin<nowiki>[ing]</nowiki> resistance\", but \"the point of Empire is that it, too, is \"total\" and that resistance to it can only take the form of negation - \"the will to be against\". The Empire is total, but economic inequality persists, and as all identities are wiped out and replaced with a universal one, the identity of the poor persists.\n\n\"Multitude\" addresses these issues and picks up the thread where \"Empire\" has left off. In order to do so, Hardt and Negri argue, one must first analyze the present configuration of war and its contradictions. This analysis is performed in the first chapter, after which chapters two and three focus on multitude and democracy, respectively. \"Multitude\" is not so much a sequel as it is a reiteration from a new point of view in a new, relatively accessible style that is distinct from the predominantly academic prose style of \"Empire\". Multitude remains, the authors insist, despite its ubiquitous subject matter and its almost casual tone, a book of philosophy which aims to shape a conceptual ground for a political process of democratization rather than present an answer to the question ‘what to do?’ or offer a programme for concrete action.\n\nIn this book, the authors introduce the concept of \"the republic of property\": \"What is central for our purposes here is that the concept of property and the defense of property remain the foundation of every modern political constitution. This is the sense in which the republic, from the great bourgeois revolutions to today, is a republic of property\". Part 2 of the book deals with the relationship between modernity and anti-modernity and proposes \"altermodernity\". Altermodernity \"involves not only insertion in the long history of antimodern struggles but also rupture with any fixed dialectic between modern sovereignty and antimodern resistance. In the passage from antimodernity to altermodernity, just as tradition and identity are transformed, so too resistance takes on a new meaning, dedicated now to the constitution of alternatives. The freedom that forms the base of resistance, as we explained earlier, comes to the fore and constitutes an event to announce a new political project.\"\n\nFor Alex Callinicos in a review \"What is newest in \"Commonwealth\" is its take on the fashionable idea of the common. Hardt and Negri mean by this not merely the natural resources that capital seeks to appropriate, but also \"the languages we create, the social practices we establish, the modes of sociality that define our relationships\", which are both the means and the result of biopolitical production. Communism, they argue, is defined by the common, just as capitalism is by the private and socialism (which they identify in effect with statism) with the public.\" For David Harvey Negri and Hardt \"in the search of an altermodernity — something that is outside the dialectical opposition between modernity and anti-modernity — they need a means of escape. The choice between capitalism and socialism, they suggest, is all wrong. We need to identify something entirely different, communism — working within a different set of dimensions.\" Harvey also notes that “Revolutionary thought, Hardt and Negri argue, must find a way to contest capitalism and ‘the republic of property.’ It ‘should not shun identity politics but instead must work through it and learn from it,’ because it is the ‘primary vehicle for struggle within and against the republic of property since identity itself is based on property and sovereignty.’” In the same exchange in Artforum between Harvey and Micheal Hardt and Antonio Negri, Hardt and Negri attempt to correct Harvey in a concept that is important within the argument of \"Commonwealth\". As such, they state that \"We instead define the concept of singularity, contrasting it to the figure of the individual on the one hand and forms of identity on the other, by focusing on three aspects of its relationship to multiplicity: Singularity refers externally to a multiplicity of others; is internally divided or multiple; and constitutes a multiplicity over time - that is, a process of becoming.\"\n\nIn May 2012 Negri self-published (with Michael Hardt) an electronic pamphlet on the occupy and encampment movements of 2011–2012 called \"Declaration\" that argues the movement explores new forms of democracy. The introduction was published at \"Jacobin\" under the title \"Take Up the Baton\". He also published an article with Hardt in \"Foreign Affairs\" in October 2011 stating \"The Encampment in Lower Manhattan Speaks to a Failure of Representation.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "118394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=118394", "title": "Archibald Cox", "text": "Archibald Cox\n\nArchibald \"Archie\" Cox Jr. (May 17, 1912 – May 29, 2004) was an American lawyer and law professor who served as U.S. Solicitor General under President John F. Kennedy and later as a special prosecutor during the Watergate scandal. During his career, he was a pioneering expert on labor law and also an authority on constitutional law. \"The Journal of Legal Studies\" has identified Cox as one of the most cited legal scholars of the 20th century.\n\nCox was Senator John F. Kennedy's labor advisor and in 1961, President Kennedy appointed him solicitor general, an office he held for four and a half years. Cox became famous when under mounting pressure and charges of corruption against persons closely associated with Richard Nixon, Attorney General nominee Elliot Richardson appointed him as Special Prosecutor to oversee the federal criminal investigation into the Watergate burglary and other related crimes that became popularly known as the Watergate scandal. He had a dramatic confrontation with Nixon when he subpoenaed the tapes the president had secretly recorded of his Oval Office conversations. When Cox refused a direct order from the White House to seek no further tapes or presidential materials, Nixon fired him in an incident that became known as the Saturday Night Massacre. Cox's firing produced a public relations disaster for Nixon and set in motion impeachment proceedings which ended with Nixon stepping down from the presidency.\n\nCox returned to teaching, lecturing, and writing for the rest of his life, giving his opinions on the role of the Supreme Court in the development of the law and the role of the lawyer in society. Although he was recommended to President Jimmy Carter for a seat on the First Circuit Court of Appeals, his nomination fell victim to the dispute between the president and Senator Ted Kennedy. He was appointed to head several public-service, watchdog and good-government organizations, including serving for 12 years as head of Common Cause. He was elected to the Common Cause National Governing Board in 1976 and 1997. In addition he argued two important Supreme Court cases, winning both: one concerning the constitutionality of federal campaign finance restrictions (\"Buckley v. Valeo\") and the other the leading early case testing affirmative action (\"Regents of the University of California v. Bakke\").\n\nCox was born in Plainfield, New Jersey, the son of Archibald and Frances \"Fanny\" Bruen Perkins Cox, the eldest of seven children. His father Archibald Sr. (Harvard College, 1896; Harvard Law School, 1899) was the son of a Manhattan lawyer, Rowland Cox, and rose to prominence as a patent and trademark lawyer, and who wrote \"Cox's Manual on Trade Marks\". When Rowland Cox died suddenly in 1900, Archibald Sr. inherited his father's solo practice almost right out of law school. He built on that start to become successful in his own right. His most prominent achievement was securing the red cross as the trademark of Johnson & Johnson. Compared to the lawyers on his mother's side, his father (as Archibald Jr. reflected late in his life) did not participate much in public service, although he had \"done a few things for Woodrow Wilson … at the time of the peace conference\" and was president of the local Board of Education. He also served as a member of the New Jersey Rapid Transit Commission.\n\nCox attended the private Wardlaw School in Edison, New Jersey until he was fourteen. Afterwards, he studied at St. Paul's School in New Hampshire, attending due to his father's intervention on his behalf despite low grades.\n\nCox thrived at St. Paul and in his final year he won Hugh Camp Memorial Cup for public speaking and led the school's debate team to defeat Groton. It was during this period that he read Beveridge's \"Life of John Marshall\", which was an important early ingredient in Cox's progressive view of the law. With a warm recommendation from the head-master (and family connections), Cox was able to enter Harvard College in 1930.\n\nAt Harvard, Cox joined a final club, the Delphic Club, called the \"Gashouse\" for its parties, gambling and liquor (during Prohibition). He majored in History, Government and Economics and did slightly better than \"gentlemanly Cs.\"\n\nIt was during the second semester of his freshman year that his father died, at age 56. For Cox's senior thesis he proposed analyzing the constitutional differences of the composition between the Senate and House through early American history. His advisor, Paul Buck, told him he did not \"have brains enough\" for the project. Cox took up the challenge and completed \"Senatorial Saucer.\" As a result of the work Cox was able to graduate with honors in History. Cox continued on to Harvard Law School in 1934.\n\nCox thrived at law school, ranking first in his class of 593 at the end of his first year. Cox's second year was taken up with work on the \"Harvard Law Review\". He also met his future wife Phyllis Ames. Cox proposed to her after only three or four meetings. She initially put him off, but by March 1936 they were engaged. Phyllis, who graduated Smith the year before, was the granddaughter of James Barr Ames, one time dean of Harvard Law School and noted for popularizing the casebook method of legal study. Professor (and later United States Associate Justice) Felix Frankfurter wrote them a congratulatory note on their betrothal, which exclaimed: \"My God, what a powerful legal combination!\" Cox graduated in 1937 \"magna cum laude\", one of nine receiving the highest honor awarded by the law school that year. Two weeks before his commencement, Cox and Phyllis married. Moving to New York City after law school, Cox served as a clerk with United States District Court Judge Learned Hand.\n\nAfter a year in New York City, Cox accepted an associate position with the Boston law firm of Ropes, Gray, Best, Coolidge and Rugg. After World War II began, Cox took a position in the United States Solicitor General's office. By 1943, Cox had advanced to become Assistant Solicitor of the Labor Department.\n\nAs associate solicitor Cox's job in the Labor Department was to supervise enforcement at the District Court level of federal labor statutes. Cox had a staff of eight lawyers in Washington and supervised the Department's regional offices, including deciding when a regional attorney could bring suit. Most of the litigation involved wage and hours issues under the Fair Labor Standards Act. His background in the solicitor general's office also allowed him to handle much of the appellate work. By virtue of his position Cox also occasionally sat as an alternative public member of the Wage Adjustment Board, which was a specialized subsidiary of the National War Labor Board, which dealt with the construction industry and attempted to maintain labor peace by mediating non-wage disputes and setting prevailing wage rates and increases under the Davis–Bacon Act.\n\nAfter WWII was over, Cox returned to the law firm Ropes, Gray with the intention of spending his professional career there. Instead, he lasted five weeks. Dean Landis of the Harvard Law School offered to hire Cox as a probationary teacher in the fall of 1945. Cox accepted, despite the substantial cut in salary he would take, but on the condition that he would not have to teach corporations or property. Landis agreed; his expectation was that Cox should become a nationally recognized expert in labor law. In addition to labor law, Cox started out teaching torts. Later he would also teach unfair competition, agency and administrative law. He was made a permanent professor during the 1946–47 academic year, a time when the law school greatly increased enrollment in the post-war boom.\n\nAs a legal scholar and professor at Harvard throughout the 1950s, Cox became immensely influential in the labor field. His writing was so prolific that Dean Griswold pointed to Cox when he needed an example of the kind of academic output he was seeking from the faculty. Given that the peak of his academic career also coincided with the enactment of the statutes that defined industrial relations, his work, usually the first on any new topic, shaped the Supreme Court's thinking. His one-time student and later colleague Derek Bok described this influence:\n\nIn addition to his direct effect on Supreme Court decisions, Cox's scholarly writing influenced other academics and practitioners who widely cited him. \"The Journal of Legal Studies\" lists Cox as one of the most-cited legal scholars of the twentieth century. The framework he developed, first in the two articles with Dunlop in 1950-51, then elaborated on his own, became the standard view of the Wagner and Taft-Hartley Acts. It assumed roughly equal bargaining power between union and management and interpreted the labor laws (often contrary to the language of the statutes themselves) to limit individual employee rights unless pursued by his bargaining agent, to restrict the subjects on which management is required to bargain about based on past practices, to permit unions to waive rights the statutes otherwise gave to employees and in general to advocate the notion that labor statutes should be interpreted to promote industrial peace over enhancing the economic power of labor. The framework remained the dominant view of federal labor relations until the late 1950s when concerns over member participation began to shape policy. It would be Cox and his work with Senator Kennedy on the bill that became the Landrum–Griffin Act that would initiate the new framework.\n\nIn 1953 the young and ambitious John F. Kennedy, new to the Senate, decided that labor relations would be the area that he would specialize in to begin building a policy and legislative resume for use in future political endeavors. He wrote to Cox in March 1953 inviting him to testify before the Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare. Cox was a natural ally to seek out. He was one of Kennedy's constituents and a fellow Harvard alumnus. More importantly he was a nationally recognized academic expert on labor law and a liberal Democrat with a predisposition towards labor.\n\nIn the fall of 1959, after the work on the Landrum–Griffin Act had wound up, Kennedy confided to Cox that he was running for president. In January 1960 he wrote Cox formally asking him to head up his efforts to \"tap intellectual talent in the Cambridge area\" and then \"ride herd over twenty or thirty college professors\" in their activities for him. Cox brought a number of eminent policy experts in a number of fields into contact with Kennedy. Although many were skeptical of his candidacy and some had been loyal to or inclined towards either Adlai Stevenson or Hubert Humphrey, Kennedy won them over at a meeting in Boston's Harvard Club on January 24. In the period leading up to the Democratic Convention in July Cox acted mainly as a \"stimulator\" to prod various academics to send memoranda to Kennedy or to find academics to supply Kennedy with policy positions on specific topics. While before the Convention Cox had not recruited extensively beyond the Boston area, he had at least one recruit from the University of Colorado and recruited from Stanford. as well. Even though the number was not large before the nomination, no other Democratic contender, not even Stevenson, had made an effort to recruit intellectual partisans.\nAs with the case of Cox's informal group of labor advisors, Kennedy was anxious to use Cox's contacts not only for their expertise but also for the éclat they gave his campaign. A \"Congressional Quarterly\" article in April, widely reprinted in local papers, named Cox and the other Cambridge advisors as a key to the kinds of policies Kennedy would advocate. \"Of John F. Kennedy's political talents none has been more helpful to him than his ability to attract capable men to his cause,\" the \"Times\" said in the middle of the Convention. The description of Cox's academic advisers was designed to recall Roosevelt's \"Brain Trusts\": \"More ideas poured in from Cambridge, Mass., where an astounding galaxy of scholars had made themselves and informal brain-trust for Senator Kennedy.\"\n\nAfter the Los Angeles Convention Kennedy, now the nominee, asked Cox to move to Washington to have an expanded role, hiring speechwriters and coordinating academic talent. Cox accepted, and then Kennedy point blank asked Cox if he thought he could get along with Ted Sorensen and explained \"Sorensen's fear that somebody was going to elbow his way in between him and Kennedy.\" Cox assumed he could. Cox had been unaware that Sorensen had already been at work, back in February, trying to compartmentalize and minimize Cox's group's efforts. Sorenen told Joseph A. Loftus of the \"Times\" that the Cambridge group was \"something 'much more talked about than fact.'\" Cox would soon discover, however, that Sorensen always \"was terribly worried about being cut out\" and protected Kennedy from independent advice including Cox's.\n\nAfter Kennedy's election in 1960, despite publicly downplaying the idea that he was being considered for public office, Cox was concerned he might be offered a seat on the NLRB or a second echelon position in the Department of Labor. Neither position offered new challenges for him, but he worried about the propriety of refusing. Before leaving for his family Christmas celebration in Windsor, he was tipped by Anthony Lewis of the \"Times\" that he had been chosen for Solicitor General. Cox decided that if this was true, he would tell the president-elect that he needed time to think the matter over. But when Kennedy called, interrupting a family lunch, he accepted immediately. Cox was unaware until much later that his law school colleague, Paul Freund, whom he had recommended for the position, declined and recommended Cox in turn. Next month Cox appeared before the Senate Judicial Committee for confirmation hearings, but his reputation was such that the hearing took only ten minutes; even minority leader Dirksen, who knew Cox from Landrum–Griffin days, said he \"had been quite impressed with his legal abilities … .\"\n\nIn the nearly century that the office had existed before Cox occupied it, the solicitor general, as the government's lawyer before the Supreme Court, was immensely influential. Cox held the position at a time when the Warren Court was about to involve the Court in issues never before considered appropriate for judicial review, at a time when the country was ready for the Court to decide various questions of social justice and individual rights. Cox was aware of the pivotal time the Court and he faced and explained it in an address right before the beginning of the first full Term he would argue in:\n\nDuring the customary introduction of the Solicitor General to the members of the Court, Justice Frankfurter had an extended talk with his former student. The justice advised Cox that the first case to argue should be something involving criminal law. Cox gave due weight to the recommendation, but he met vigorous objections from his assistant Oscar Davis who argued that civil rights was the most important legal issue facing the country and that Cox should signal in his first argued case the new administration's commitment to fight for it. Cox agreed and selected \"Burton v. Wilmington Parking Authority\". The case, brought by an African-American who was barred from a private restaurant that rented space in a building owned by the state of Delaware, confronted the Court squarely with the limitations on the Fourteenth Amendment guarantee of \"equal protection of the laws\" - erected by the so-called Civil Rights Cases of 1883, which held that the constitutional guarantee only applied against \"state action.\" Cox persuaded the Court that the fact that the business was a state lessee as well as franchisee, was located in a parking complex developed by the state to promote business, and that the complex flew a Delaware flag in front of the building, all rendered the state a \"joint participant\" with the restaurant, sufficient to invoke the Fourteenth Amendment. The Court agreed. It was the beginning of the Court's dilution of the \"state action\" requirement in racial discrimination cases.\nBy May 1961, the civil rights movement, led by James Farmer of CORE, initiated what would become a wave of non-violent confrontations against discrimination in public transit and other accommodations. The attorney general's office, under the personal supervision of Robert Kennedy, took active measures to protect the protestors in the face of local political and police indifference to or active complicity with violent resisters. Cox was regularly involved in meetings over day-to-day Justice Department activities, while at the same time he prepared to argue cases seeking to overturn state court convictions of civil rights protestors (under various statutes dealing with vagrancy, trespass and even parading without a permit.) Cox came into close contact with Robert Kennedy, and while the two had widely different styles (Kennedy was impulsive and somewhat cavalier of legal principles; Cox was cautious against making missteps that would set the movement back or commit the Court to a position on which it might lose its legitimacy), Cox grew to admire Kennedy. Prior to the Ole Miss riot the subject reluctantly gave counsel to the President. Impatient of a piecemeal approach, Robert Kennedy, but more importantly the civil rights community and particularly Jack Greenberg of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, sought near elimination of the \"state action\" doctrine, arguing that restaurants were like \"common carriers\" subject to the Fourteen Amendment or that the mere act of enforcing a trespass law used to further private discrimination was itself sufficient \"state action.\"\n\nCox did not believe the Court would make so radical a break with eighty-year-old precedent. So in each case he argued on narrow grounds that did not require the Court to overrule the Civil Rights Cases, and each case he won on those grounds, in the process infuriating Jack Greenberg who was arguing in those very cases for the broader approach. The cautious approach, however, garnered Cox much credibility with the Court, which came to realize that he was not going to lead them into areas with uncertain future consequences. After a number of these cases, however, even the Court requested briefing in 1962 on the \"state action\" doctrine in \"Bell v. Maryland.\" Cox took a slightly more advanced position, arguing that where trespass laws were used to prosecute civil rights demonstrators in states such as Maryland where there was a history of racial segregation by custom and law, then the discrimination was part of the enforcement sufficient to invoke state action. Although even this position disappointed civil rights activists and the Justice Department, it prevailed, but in the face of three dissents (including that of Justice Black), suggesting that a broader rule might have been rejected by a majority. The issue would be mooted by legislation dealing with \"public accommodations\", which Cox helped draft and defended before the Court in 1965.\n\nThe cases that troubled Cox the most during his tenure, and the area where he differed widest from Robert Kennedy, involved malapportionment of voting districts. Over the years failure to re-allocate voting districts particularly in state legislatures, produced wildly disproportionate districts, with rural areas having many fewer voters than urban districts as a result of the urbanization of America. The result was dilution of the urban vote with policy resulting accordingly; rectification would benefit Democrats politically, while malapportionment stood as an obstacle to legislation that improved the lot of city-dwellers, minorities and the poor. The problem was that Justice Frankfurter had written in a plurality decision in 1946 that such issues amounted to a political question—a matter not appropriate for the Court to resolve. On the other hand, given that political interests were entrenched, and those with disproportionate power were not likely to give up their greater share, a political solution was unlikely. But a case surfaced from Tennessee that seemed ideal to test that ruling. Tennessee had not reapportioned its legislature since 1910 and, as a result, there were urban districts that had eleven times the citizens of rural districts. Cox decided to submit an \"amicus curiae\" brief supporting the plaintiffs in \"Baker v. Carr\". The case was argued once in April 1961 and re-argued in October. In between Cox was subjected to an unpleasant onslaught by Frankfurter at a public dinner and relentless questions in the October argument. When the decision was announced, however, Frankfurter was joined by only Harlan; the result was 6-2.\n\nThe first case proved far easier than Cox expected. The holding was relatively narrow, simply providing federal court jurisdiction, and followed the points in Cox's brief. But Cox had much more difficulty with the follow up cases, because he could not persuade himself that history or legal theory would demand a one-man-one-vote standard in all cases. He developed what he later called a \"highly complex set of criteria,\" but in the end when the Court finally erected the one-man-one-vote standard it simply made the general rule subject to all the exceptions that Cox had tried to weave into his proposed standards. As Chief Justice Warren's clerk later told him \"all the Chief did was take your brief and turn it upside down and write exceptions to the one-person one-vote that covered all the cases that you had attempted to exclude by this complicated formula.\". The case was \"Reynolds v. Sims\", 377 U.S. 533 (1964), holding that election districts must be roughly proportional to population.\n\nAfter President Kennedy's assassination, Deputy Attorney General Nicholas Katzenbach became Cox's direct superior The first request of the acting attorney general was that Cox accompany him to see the chief justice and request him to head a commission to investigate the circumstances surrounding the assassination of President Kennedy. Cox was reluctant, believing that Warren should refuse the request, because it would have adverse impact on the Court. He agreed but asked that Katzenbach not have him try to persuade the chief justice. In the end Warren declined the request, and the two Justice employees left. Within an hour President Johnson called Warren, who capitulated. Warren said in 1969 that because of it, it became \"the unhappiest year of my life.\"\n\nThe civil rights legislation that Kennedy was unable to see pass during his lifetime received the needed momentum from his death and the legislative skill of President Johnson. In 1964 the public accommodations bill passed as the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The obvious constitutional attack on the legislation was its constitutionality under the Fourteenth Amendment because it sought to regulate conduct that was not \"state action.\" Cox and Assistant Attorney General and Head of the Civil Rights Division Burke Marshall, however founded the legislation on Congress's power to regulate interstate commerce. Although both John and Robert Kennedy questioned the optics of using the Commerce Clause, they did not object. Cox had no difficulty having the Court uphold the statute on that basis when he argued the cases in October.\n\nAfter a landslide election victory, Johnson used his State of the Union address in January 1965 to, among other things, promise a voting rights act. It was Cox who developed the first draft. The mechanism devised by Cox was to provide for a presumption of illegality of a list of practices including literacy tests and similar devices if the state had a history of low minority voter turn-out as shown by voter statistics. In such cases the burden was shifted to the state to prove nondiscriminatory intent. This mechanism remained the heart of the legislation throughout the legislative process. Both Ramsey Clark and Nicholas Katzenbach admired the mechanism for its legal craftsmanship and statecraft (because it avoided the need to prove intent to discriminate). Before the bill was submitted to Congress Cox answered a question in Court that was used by nationally syndicated columnist Drew Pearson to embarrass Cox before the new president. On January 28, Cox urged the Supreme Court to reverse a lower court decision that held that the federal government had no power to sue a state alleging violation of the Fifteenth Amendment by discriminatory devices aimed at African-Americans. Cox argued the narrow ground that the government had such power. When the Court expressly asked Cox whether he was asking the Court to strike down the statutes, Cox answered that he was not, only that the case be remanded to the three-court panel. The Court's opinion, delivered on March 8, highlighted this exchange in such a way that some inferred that Cox passed up a golden opportunity. Pearson's column stated that Cox had cost the civil rights movement two years in litigation, and for that he point blank suggested that Johnson replace Cox as solicitor general.\n\nThe Voting Rights Act of 1965 mooted that case, and Cox would go on to defend the legislation successfully before the Court, but he did so as a private attorney. In the summer after Johnson's victory Cox offered his resignation in order that Johnson might pick his own Solicitor General if he chose. Although Cox dearly loved the job, he overrode Katzenbach's strong objections to his decision. Johnson accepted the resignation on June 25, 1965.\n\nChief Justice Warren was \"non-plussed and made unhappy by the news\" that Cox was not reappointed. Senator Kennedy delivered a tribute from the well of the Senate. Even years later his colleagues in the Justice Department praised his service. John W. Douglas, for example, said \"he was the best solicitor general that the department's ever had … .\" John Seigenthaler likewise found him \"great.\" Students of the office have agreed. Lincoln Caplan called him one of the three most respected Solicitors General in history (together with Robert H. Jackson and John W. Davis). Bruce Terris, who was Assistant Solicitor General in three administrations, said that he \"was the best oral advocate I ever saw. … He had the ability to do something I had never seen anybody ever having the ability to do, and I suspect very few people ever had, and that was he had the ability to lecture the Supreme Court. \" Even critic Victor Navasky wrote that Cox was \"by general agreement one of the most distinguished Solicitors General in the history of the office … .\" As Solicitor General Cox personally argued over 80 cases before the Court, winning 88%. A study of the eight Solicitors General between 1953 and 1982 found that Cox was the most liberal, filing liberal briefs in 77% of the cases. Supreme Court litigation was his metier, so much so that he would continue to do it in the future even (or especially) when he received no fee.\n\nIn 1965, Cox returned to Harvard Law School as a visiting professor, teaching a course in current constitutional law and a section in criminal law.\n\nCox was at Berkeley on May 16, 1973, when Secretary of Defense Elliot Richardson, President Nixon's nominee for attorney general, called him to ask if he would consider taking the position of Special Prosecutor in the Watergate affair. Cox had woken up that morning, the day before his 61st birthday, without hearing in his right ear (a condition his doctor would tell him a few days later was permanent), which dampened his enthusiasm for the job---the sensing of which, perhaps, increased Richardson's willingness to make concessions to obtain Cox's consent. Richardson, for his part, was getting \"desperate\" according to his aide John T. Smith. It was clear that the Senate would make the appointment of a Special Prosecutor a condition of Richardson's confirmation. Richardson's staff had prepared a list of 100 candidates. Richardson did not recall how many he had contacted before Cox. Given their mutual respect,(Like Cox, Richardson came with an illustrious pedigree, only his could be traced back to the earliest settlers in Boston and therefore he was counted among the Boston Brahmin. Richardson attended Harvard College and Law School (where he was president of the \"Harvard Law Review\"), had been a student of Cox's, and, like Cox, clerked for Judge Hand (1947–48) and been associated with Ropes & Gray. But Richardson had the additional advantage of having also clerked for Frankfurter (1948–49) and indeed was considered one of Frankfurter's all-time favorites. Richardson, who negotiated with Frankfurter to allow him one hour every morning to read Shakespeare, so impressed Frankfurter that the latter proposed him for the presidency of Harvard in 1953, even though he was only 33. Richardson had sought out Cox's career advice. And despite Richardson's affiliation with the Republican Party, in 1967 Cox supported Richardson for attorney general of Massachusetts, an election Richardson won.) over two days of phone conversations Richardson was able to satisfy Cox's concern over independence, and Richardson reduced it to writing.\n\nThe resulting \"compact\" was extraordinary even under the circumstances. The scope was \"all offenses arising out of the 1972 election … involving the president, the White House staff or presidential appointments.\" It was thus not limited to Watergate. The assumption of responsibility for a case was left to the discretion of the Special Prosecutor, who also had sole discretion to decide \"whether and to what extent he will inform or consult with the attorney general\" on any matter being investigated. The White House thus lost its access to the investigation. In addition, the Special Prosecutor was granted the right to discuss his findings and progress with the press at his discretion. Finally, Cox could be dismissed only by Richardson and only for \"extraordinary improprieties\"—a standard virtually impossible to meet. The importance of the selection to Richardson's confirmation was highlighted by the fact that he brought Cox along to his hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee. Democratic Whip Senator Robert Byrd asked Cox if he needed broader authority. Cox replied that he already had \"the whip hand.\" Cox said that the only restraint the president or the Justice Department had over him was to fire him. He also vowed that he would follow the evidence even if it led \"to the oval office.\" Richardson was confirmed.\n\nThe president publicly welcomed the selection and, consistent with his new public relations offensive, commended Richardson's \"determination\" to get to the bottom of the affair. Privately, Nixon seethed with anger. In his memoir he said: \"If Richardson searched specifically for the man whom I least trusted, he could hardly have done better.\" Richardson, however, thought he had the best man for the job, because once Cox cleared the president there would be no hint that he colluded with Nixon or even that he was sympathetic. Richardson had perhaps been misled about what his assignment was (and what the president's true intentions were) when the president instructed him the night Kleindienst was dismissed to \"get to the bottom of it\" \"no matter who[m] it hurts.\" Richardson was to \"stand firm\" only on two issues: presidential conversations were to remain privileged and national security matters were not to be investigated. Otherwise \"I don't give a Goddam what it is—Mitchell, Stans—anybody.\" If there were any doubt, the president insisted to Richardson: \"You've got to believe I didn't know anything.\"\n\nOfficial Washington, however, was skeptical; Cox, they thought, would be ineffective; he was \"too soft—not nasty enough.\" James Doyle, a \"Washington Star\" reporter who would later become the chief press advisor for Cox's group, described his own first reaction to meeting Cox: \"Prosecutors are supposed to have the instincts of a shark; this one seemed more like a dolphin.\" That Cox was insufficiently attuned to the politics of his situation was on show when he invited to his swearing-in Senator Ted Kennedy (the one Democrat whom Nixon loathed and feared) as well as Robert Kennedy's widow; had it take place in his old solicitor general's office; and had his old boss, President Roosevelt's Solicitor General Charles Fahy, administer the oath. It convinced Nixon that Cox saw his job as to bring down the president. Nixon now regarded him as a \n\"partisan viper.\" Not long afterwards, Cox offended Senate Democrats as well by revealing at a press conference a letter requesting Senator Sam Ervin to cancel or at least postpone the Senate Watergate hearings so that he could familiarize himself with the proceedings. Ervin told the press: \"Professor Cox's request is extraordinarily arrogant.\"\n\nAfter he was sworn in on May 25, 1973, Cox returned to Cambridge where he recruited two professors, James Vorenberg and Philip Heymann, to join his staff. The three arrived in Washington on May 29. Cox was faced with reports that the team of federal prosecutors under Earl J. Silbert was about to resign unless given a vote of confidence. Cox appealed to their sense of professionalism without comment on how the case was handled. A bigger problem was Silbert's boss, Henry E. Petersen, a career FBI/Justice Department employee appointed Assistant Attorney General by Nixon, who had regular meetings with Nixon, but would only provide vague descriptions to Cox, and point blank refused to turn over his memorandum of one such meeting, claiming executive privilege on behalf of Nixon.\n\nCox concluded that a top priority was to hire a pre-eminent criminal trial attorney to supervise the prosecutors until the office was up and running and then try the cases after indictment. He persuaded James F. Neal, the U.S. attorney who obtained the conviction of Jimmy Hoffa in 1964 for jury tampering, now in private practice, to come aboard for several weeks to stabilize the ship. Neal would stay to the end, at the end of each promised period promising only a few more weeks; he became Cox's number two man, picked to be the chief trial attorney. Vorenberg became number three and spent much of the early period recruiting lawyers. Vorenberg divided the mission into five task forces: the first to sign on was Thomas F. McBride who would head up the task force on campaign contributions and would obtain the conviction of George Steinbrenner; William Merril would head up the Plumbers task force; Richard J. Davis would handle the task force investigating \"dirty tricks;\" Joseph J. Connolly headed up the force investigating the ITT antitrust settlement; and James Neal headed the largest group, the Watergate task force, which dealt with the cover up and included George Frampton, Richard Ben-Veniste, and Jill Wine Volner. Henry S. Ruth became Cox's deputy and Phil Lacovara became Cox's counsel. With a view toward establishing better relations with the press, Cox designated James Doyle his spokesman.\n\nThe Special Prosecutor's office had to catch up with the federal prosecutors. The Senate Watergate committee was in competition for Dean's testimony, and leaks suggested they were about to get it. On June 3, published reports said that Dean would testify that he had spoken to the president about Watergate 35 times. On the next day the Deputy White House spokesman admitted that the two spoke frequently, but insisted that the discussions were in furtherance of the president's new determination to get to the bottom of the scandal. The spokesman admitted there were logs of all such conversations, but that they would not be turned over on the ground that they were covered by \"executive privilege.\" Before Cox could litigate the issue of executive privilege and his entitlement to the documents, he had to fashion a reasonably specific subpoena that might be enforced in court. But he had no idea how the White House files were organized, so he scheduled a meeting with the president's counsel on June 6 to discuss his documents request.\n\nThe president's new defense team was made up of one-time Democrat Leonard Garment, University of Texas constitutional law professor Charles Alan Wright, and Nixon true believer J. Fred Buzhardt. Cox made three requests: the Petersen document concerning his meeting with Nixon; Petersen's memorandum to Haldeman summarizing the same meeting; and the tape of the conversation between Nixon and Dean mentioned by Petersen from the same meeting. Vorenberg added a request for all logs between the president and key aides from June 1972 to May 1973. Buzhardt said that only the president could determine what he would produce. Garment and Wright argued about executive privilege, which Wright said applied not only to presidential documents but ones of his aides such as Haldeman and Ehrlichman. As for the tape of the April 15 Dean meeting, Buzhardt (falsely) suggested it was not a tape \"of\" the meeting but rather the president's later dictated tape \"about\" the meeting. No resolution was arrived at, but the president's lawyers did not reject the requests outright.\n\nThe president's legal team employed an approach that would become familiar: state an overly broad position, equivocate, delay, and then abruptly make partial concessions in the face of perceived popular disapproval. Shortly after their meeting, Cox announced a sudden press conference (unrelated to the discovery dispute). Buzhardt, thinking that Cox planned to go public with the dispute over the documents, called Vorenberg. Instead of discussing the press conference Vorenberg reminded Buzhardt of the documents requests. Buzhardt assured Vorenberg that a package would soon be delivered. Twenty minutes before the press conference, the package arrived containing the logs of presidential meetings and telephone conferences with key aides, including Dean, Haldeman, and Ehrlichman. The press conference took place and involved (as was originally planned) only an introduction to several new attorneys. The documents, however, together with the logs of Haldeman and Ehrlichman themselves proved essential to draft subpoenas sufficiently specific to elicit documents, and more crucially when their existence would later become known, the tapes.\n\nBy mid-June the office was fully functioning. Silbert's U.S. attorney's team was finally eased out on June 29, much to the chagrin of the federal prosecutors. The task force that was to show the first results was McBridge's campaign finance group. On July 6, American Airlines admitted that it made an illegal $55,000 campaign contribution to Nixon's personal lawyer Herb Kalmbach. Within two months the Special Prosecutor would uncover illegal contributions by Ashland Oil, Gulf Oil, Goodyear Tire and Rubber, Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, Phillisps Petroleum, and Braniff Airlines. While the center of media attention was on the cover up, by January, according to a Harris survey, 81% of Americans believed \"illegal corporate money-givers\" were \"harmful to the country.\"\n\nHerb Kalmbach, especially of interest to the illegal campaign contributions task force, was scheduled to testify before the Senate Watergate Committee on July 16. Instead, Haldeman's aide Col. Alexander Butterfield was inserted as a \"mystery witness.\" During his 30-minute testimony he revealed the secret taping system that was installed in the Oval Office, the president's office at the Executive Office Building, and at Camp David)—a voice-activated mechanism designed to capture everything spoken by or to the president. The existence of the tapes was the biggest piece of evidence unearthed by the Senate Watergate Committee; around it much of the remainder of the cover-up case would revolve.\n\nThe materiality of certain tapes was self-evident. Tapes of conversations testified to by John Dean would either show that Dean's account was accurate, in which case the president was complicit in obstruction of justice, or false, in which case Dean committed perjury in his testimony to the Senate. The relevance of other tapes could be inferred from the proximity of meetings to Watergate-related events. Cox believed he could maximize his chance for a favorable ruling by limiting the scope of his initial request to material arguably important to the criminal proceedings. Once he obtained a ruling that executive privilege gave way to a compelling need in a criminal prosecution, he could ask for additional material later. So on July 18 Cox sent Buzhardt a written request for eight specific tapes. On July 23, Wright responded in writing denying the request on grounds of executive privilege and separation of powers. That evening Cox had a grand jury subpoena demanding the eight tapes and three other items served on Buzhardt who accepted on behalf of the president.\n\nOn July 26, Chief Judge John J. Sirica received a letter from Nixon himself responding to the subpoena in which he asserted that it would be as inappropriate for the court to compel him as it would for him to compel the court. He was therefore not producing the tapes. But he included a copy of the March 30 memo concerning Hunt's employment and promised to make available the Strachan political documents concerning ambassadorships. Within an hour Cox was before the grand jury, explaining the response to them; they voted to request Sirica to issue an order to Nixon to show cause why there should not be prompt compliance with the subpoena. Sirica had the members individually polled and issued the order.\n\nSirica allowed the parties a month to brief the issue, which came for a hearing on August 22. Wright took a broad, absolutist position claiming the president was the only person who could decide what materials to turn over to them. He relayed Nixon's feelings on national security, saying that Nixon told him that one tape had \"national security information so highly sensitive that he did not feel free to hint to me what the nature of it is\" despite Wright's full national security clearance. Wright said that the president's power was so inclusive that he could terminate the Special Prosecutor's office and have all the cases dismissed. Cox, on his turn, emphasized the peculiar situation here where there \"is strong reason to believe the integrity of the executive office has been corrupted\" and pointed out that the president had permitted his staff to testify about the meetings covered by the tapes but refused to turn over the tapes themselves, which would be the better evidence of what transpired. As for the claim that the president could terminate his commission, Cox said (presciently in hindsight) that even if were true, then the president would have to accept the political repercussions that would follow exercising that power. After questioning Wright for about 17 minutes (and Cox only 8), the judge said he hoped to have a decision within a week.\n\nOn August 29, the court ordered the president to deliver all the material to him for review. The decision amounted to a rejection of Wright's absolutist argument. Although not a complete victory for Cox, Sirica ignored the national security argument, and the decision was widely considered as historic—the first time a court ordered a president to produce evidence since Chief Justice John Marshall in 1807 ordered President Thomas Jefferson to produce documents. The White House quickly announced that Nixon \"will not comply with the order.\" Wright said that they were considering an appeal, but the statement \"hinted that they might find some other method of sustaining the president's legal position.\"\n\nThe president did appeal, but to the public irritation of Wright, the Circuit Court of Appeals ordered the proceedings expedited, scheduling argument for the following week before the entire circuit. At the argument on September 11 Wright again took the maximum view of executive privilege. In response to a question by Chief Judge David L. Bazelon, Wright said that he could think of no circumstance that the tapes could be demanded by courts. He said, however, that the White House had made information available, waiving the privilege, but tapes constituted \"the raw material of life,\" something essentially privileged. Wright maintained that the privilege survived even if abused, such as by the president engaging in fraud or other crime. Cox's approach, just as in the sit-in and reapportionment cases, was to avoid asserting a broad legal principle and instead show how the case was \"sui generis\", unlikely to establish a precedent soon relied on, and one that fit easily within existing principles of administration of justice. Observers believed Cox had won. Instead, the Court's decision two days later (even before the time the court had provided for post-argument briefs) gave the parties one week to come up with a compromise.\n\nThe Circuit Court's recommendation was that the parties come to an arrangement whereby the president would submit portions of the tapes to Cox and Wright who would decide with Nixon what portions would be submitted to the grand jury. Cox announced almost immediately that he was willing to discuss the matter with the White House lawyers. The White House would only say that it was studying the matter; Wright had already returned to Texas. The Court instructed the parties to report back within one week. If no arrangement could be made, it would decide the appeal.\n\nNixon had lost patience with Cox and was in no mood to negotiate (even though the court's suggestion strongly implied that it would order production of the tapes if there was no settlement). While the lawyers engaged in delay, Nixon was trying to control Cox through Richardson. For three months, Alexander Haig, H.R. Haldeman's replacement as White House chief of staff, had been directing Richardson to clamp down on Cox with increasingly more explicit threats until it reached the boiling point just at this moment. Buzhardt nevertheless made an offer: he would summarize the tapes with each participant's conversations re-written in the third person. It was an unworkable scheme, but Cox decided to continue negotiations over the next several days. Cox then drafted a 6-page counter-proposal providing for transcriptions of the actual conversations together with a third-party certification that the rest of the tape was irrelevant. At the last meeting, when Nixon's lawyers showed willingness to have a third party certify transcripts, Cox gave them his proposal and then left to give them a chance to consider it. In less than an hour Buzhardt called, rejecting the proposal and ending the negotiations. The parties informed the court that they could not reach agreement.\n\nAside from the tapes, the Special Prosecutor's office was making substantial progress on all fronts. The Watergate task force was initially stymied in their case against John Dean. Dean's lawyer made a compelling argument that the government could not proceed against him on the basis of the information he proffered during his plea negotiations with Silbert's prosecutors. A court would require a showing that the evidence used by the government had an independent basis than that proffered by Dean. It took careful combing of the file to find a letter from one of the prosecutors to Dean's lawyer noting that Dean had failed to inform them about two specific crimes that two other witnesses disclosed. Dean's lawyer replied that the omission was an oversight. The two letters showed that there existed an independent basis to prosecute Dean. Jim Neal gave Dean until the third week of October to agree to plead to one felony count, with the obligation to become a prosecution witness, or else face indictment on the two separate incidents. The plea before Judge Sirica (known among the criminal bar as \"Maximum John\") would certainly require prison time, but Dean would likely receive favorable consideration for a reduced sentence if he cooperated.\n\nThe other task forces were also proceeding apace. Connolly's task force was readying perjury indictments: one involved former Attorney General Kleindienst who now admitted that in fact Nixon had ordered him to dismiss the ITT antitrust suit in consideration of ITT's campaign contributions. The dirty tricks task force of Richard Davis obtained a plea of guilty by Donald Segretti to three counts of illegal campaign activity. It was now preparing a perjury indictment against Dwight Chapin. New information suggested an illegal contribution of $100,000 cash (in $100 bills) from Howard Hughes through Charles \"Bebe\" Rebozo to Nixon's campaign. Inasmuch as Cox had to recuse himself from this case, he assigned it to McBride and authorized Ruth to make all decisions but asked for a prompt and diligent investigation. The Plumbers task force was considering how to trace the chain of authority in the Fielding break-in case, given their lack of a high-level cooperating witness, but they had ready perjury indictments against John Mitchell and Egil Krogh; Krogh would be indicted October 11. While most of this activity went unreported, people tapped into the network of defense attorneys and grand jury witnesses (including the White House) knew that the noose was being tightened around the president. One reporter told James Doyle that a \"middle-level White House guy told him on September 28: \"Over here they talk about how to get Cox all the time.\"\n\nIt was the Krogh indictment that forced Richardson to have another meeting with Cox on October 12. The break-in of Daniel Ellsberg's psychiatrist's office was still claimed by the White House to involve national security matters, and Richardson and Cox had an agreement that Cox would notify the attorney general before any indictment in that matter was filed. Richardson wanted to know why he was not notified. Cox, surprised, explained that the agreement did not involve perjury indictments (which could not betray national security secrets, since they would involve public testimony). Richardson, checking his notes of their understanding, agreed with Cox and then apologized for forgetting that provision. He then had a bizarre conversation with Cox during which he said that soon he would have to \"push Cox,\" but that sometimes \"it's better to lose your hat than your head.\" Perplexed, Cox returned to his office and was in the midst of telling Doyle of the conversation, when two lawyers interrupted to say the Circuit Court of Appeals had filed their decision just after 6 p.m.\n\nThe 5-2 decision of the Court of Appeals was an utter defeat for the president, and the papers highlighted the statement that the president was not \"above the law's commands.\" The court modified Judge Sirica's order and required Nixon's lawyers to specify the grounds of any privilege they were claiming as to particular portions of the tape, and Cox was to be furnished with the specifications. Cox was also to be given access to the material in any instance when the Court was in doubt of the relevance to the criminal proceedings. In this case, the court said, \"any concern over confidentiality is minimized by the attorney general's designation of a distinguished and reflective counsel as Special Prosecutor.\" In short, the court required disclosure except for portions that the president could articulate a particularized need for confidentiality, and Cox was permitted to see any portion where Sirica needed guidance on relevance.\n\nUnlike its actions following the Sirica decision, the White House remained quiet that Friday night and through the weekend following the Court of Appeals ruling. Cox had no response until he met Richardson at 6:00 p.m. on Monday, October 15. Cox thought this meeting would be a continuation of the \"Byzantine\" conversation (as Cox called it) from the previous Friday, but instead Richardson appeared now to be the point man on negotiations over the tapes. Richardson gave an outline of a proposal to have Senator John Stennis authenticate transcripts of relevant portions of the tapes. Cox was able to infer that Richardson had gotten orders from the White House and was concerned that if a compromise was not reached one or both would be fired. During the 75-minute meeting, Cox asked a long list of questions, including where he would stand with respect to future demands for documents, tapes, or other material. Because he had an engagement, Richardson proposed they meet again in the morning. The next day Richardson told Cox that if they did not have an agreement by Friday \"the consequences will be very serious for both of us.\" Cox objected to the deadline, suggesting that if their talks continue they could easily get a postponement of any response due the court. Richardson could not explain why there was a deadline and instead wanted to go over the points they had agreed upon, then discuss other issues; but Cox insisted that it was an inefficient way to proceed and gave him his earlier 6-page proposal; and Richardson agreed to write a counter-proposal.\nCox did not hear from Richardson the rest of Tuesday or Wednesday. There was much disagreement in the Special Prosecutor's office whether Cox should accept the proposal at all. Much of the concern had to do with Senator Stennis, a Nixon supporter, but more importantly a frail, partially deaf 72-year-old who only recently had recovered from a near fatal gunshot wound in a mugging in January. Cox was worried that rejecting a deal would risk obtaining anything from the White House. James Neal cautioned that if he rejected a compromise a large part of the country might accuse him of acting like a \"super-president\" without any checks. Doyle had the opposite concern: if Cox accepted less than the tapes, which the court ordered turned over, he might be seen as part of the cover-up. James Neal had a suggestion to minimize the Stennis problem—have him appointed by the court as one of several special masters. In that way he could obtain assistance in a publicly regulated manner. In the midst of the internal debate word came in the afternoon of Wednesday, October 17, that Judge Sirica dismissed the suit of the Senate Watergate Committee against Nixon seeking the tapes. Sirica ruled that the court lacked subject matter jurisdiction. It left the Special Prosecutor as the only means by which the tapes could be made public. Pressure on Cox to seek the material increased, while the White House was left with only one avenue to block it and so had added incentive to pressure Richardson to get Cox either to compromise or resign.\n\nAt 5:00 p.m. Richardson hand-delivered to Cox a draft entitled \"A Proposal\", which contained the Buzhardt comments. He called Cox at 6:00 for his comments. Cox replied: \"I think I should respond in writing, Elliot.\" That night James Neal and Dean's lawyer worked past midnight finalizing John Dean's plea agreement. At about 2:30 a.m. Neal had the lawyer review with Dean the agreement, including the provision that if any testimony he had already given proved materially false, he could be prosecuted for perjury. Neal said that when Dean agreed to the plea deal containing that proviso, he knew that Dean's version of the events was truthful and he also realilzed that \"Archibald Cox was in serious trouble with the president.\"\n\nOn Thursday, October 18, Cox drafted an 11-point reply to Richardson. Cox assured Richardson that he was \"not unamenable\" to a solution in which he had no direct access to the tapes. But he felt that it was unfair to depend on one individual to be responsible for verification, so he proposed Neal's idea of three \"Special Masters\" whose identities were disclosed from the start. He commented on the method for determining what portions would be transcribed and suggested that the tapes be subject to analysis for tampering. The comments went by messenger at mid-afternoon. Richardson around 6 p.m. brought it to the White House, where Wright had just returned from Texas (to finalize the appeal papers to the Supreme Court that were due the following day), and although he had just reviewed the \"Stennis proposal,\" he was enthusiastically extolling its reasonableness and holding forth on how the president could convince the American people that it was the solution to the crisis. When shown the Cox counter-proposal, he was outraged that Cox had \"rejected\" the president's offer. Wright counseled rejection of Cox's counteroffer since he believed the president had a \"50–50 chance\" in the Supreme Court to win outright. Richardson, perplexed at the opposition to negotiating with Cox, suggested to Wright: \"Charlie, why don't you call Archie and see if you can sell it to him.\" That night Wright called Cox and was routed to the phone in Cox's brother's home in Virginia, where Cox was having dinner and playing with his brother's children. Wright gave Cox an ultimatum with four points, the most important of which was that Cox would be given no more tapes beyond the nine that were being transcribed (a condition not in the Stennis proposal). Cox asked that Wright send the points to him in writing so that he could consider them the next day and assured him that he was not rejecting the points outright.\n\nAt 8:30 a.m. on Friday October 19, the day of Nixon's deadline for appealing to the Supreme Court (otherwise the Court of Appeals decision would become final), Cox received a letter from Wright dated the previous night. It purported to confirm Cox's \"rejection\" of Richardson's \"very reasonable proposal.\" There was no mention of the four conditions. He wrote that he would telephone at 10:00 a.m. to find out if there was any reason to continue talking. Cox, who until then had publicly and privately spoken of the integrity of Wright, told his colleagues: \"very clever lies.\" Cox wrote a note to Wright saying that the proposal needed \"fleshing out,\" particularly in light of the conditions Wright had set out in the phone call the previous night, which Cox put in writing for the record. He, Neal, and others then left for Sirica's courtroom to attend the plea hearing on John Dean. The White House, seeing only that a hearing had been scheduled, panicked, not knowing what was to take place; no attorney was present when Ruth and Lacovara arrived to deliver the letter and they left it with the guard. Haig quickly learned of the letter, told Richardson that Cox \"rejected\" the deal, and summoned him to the White House. To Richardson's surprise, Haig said that it was no longer necessary to fire Cox because the president had gotten bipartisan approval for the deal, there were meetings with the two leading members of the Senate Watergate Committee scheduled, and the plan would be acceptable to both the American people and the courts.\n\nThe guilty plea by John Dean (with obligation to cooperate) that morning represented the most significant step so far in the prosecutions. Yet, when Cox returned to the office it remained quiet—Wright had neither called nor responded in writing. When the courts closed, there was still no sign that the president had filed a notice to appeal to the Supreme Court. At 5:23 p.m. a letter from Wright arrived, which simply again maintained the reasonableness of the original proposal. Wright closed with a statement of regret that Cox would not agree. Cox now realized that he and Richardson had been allowed to negotiate even though the president had no intention to go beyond the inadequate first proposal. On this conclusion, the lawyers in the office began copying their most important memos for safe keeping. At 7:20 Richardson phoned Cox at home and read him a letter he just received from Wright informing him the Stennis plan had been agreed to by the leadership of the Senate Watergate Committee and that Cox would be instructed to not pursue any further presidential material. A statement was to be released that night. Cox and Doyle hurried back to the office. When they obtained the statement they saw it as an attempt to sell the unilateral proposal; it claimed that the plan had the approval of Senators Sam Ervin and Howard Baker, who, the statement falsely said, were the ones who proposed Senator Stennis. Although Cox had refused to agree, Nixon planned to take the proposal to Sirica and instructed his lawyers not to seek Supreme Court review. Given that the statement was riddled with falsehoods, Cox that night dictated a press release to Doyle (the staff had gone off for the three-day weekend), and Doyle phoned it in to the wire services, also announcing there would be a press conference on Saturday, at 1:00 p.m.\n\nDoyle was able to use his press contacts to secure the ballroom of the National Press Club for the 1:00 p.m. press conference on Saturday, October 20. It was to be broadcast live on NBC and CBS and a summary would be shown during half-time of the football game being shown on ABC. Cox that morning was quite concerned about whether he would be able to take the president on alone. He was well aware that he had no institutional support, and the apparent defection of Sam Ervin of the Senate Watergate Committee profoundly troubled him. \"Spineless!\" he remarked on reading of it. He was also concerned about lack of political support. Just six days before Senator George McGovern had told the ACLU, which had just taken out newspaper ads calling for Nixon's impeachment, that there was not yet support for it; in fact, there was not even enough strength in the opposition to override vetoes. As for Nixon's statement itself, influential members seemed behind it: Republican Senate minority leader Hugh Scott called it a \"very wise solution.\" Democratic Speaker Carl Albert characterized it, noncommitally, as \"interesting.\" Even Senate majority leader Mike Mansfield said it was a way \"to avoid a constitutional confrontation.\" When Joseph Connolly called an aide to liberal Republican Senator Richard Schweiker, he was told that the senator \"can't get out front on this.\" At the office, the lawyer staff assembled to discuss the matter as a group for the first time. Philip Heymann had flown in from Cambridge to lend support. They offered contradictory advice, and Cox asked them to go to their offices to write up suggestions for him. At 11:00 a.m. he met them again and gave something of a valedictory and urged them to continue working if he were fired. At 12:30, Cox, Phyllis, James Doyle, and John Barker walked to the National Press Club. \"He was plenty upset,\" said Barker.\nRichardson was on the phone when Cox arrived and read to him the text of a letter he had sent to the president that day in which he said that Nixon's instructions gave him \"serious difficulties\" and outlined several steps that still might save the compromise. Phyllis, holding his hand, walked him to the stage, where they were photographed. Cox then sat down at the table and began his impromptu remarks.\n\nHeymann thought he started out nervous, defensively saying that he was \"not out to get the president …\" Once he got into the details of the history and significance of the dispute over the tapes, which involved a patient explanation of criminal procedure, evidence, administrative and constitutional law, he relaxed. Doyle said: \"He was folksy, unpretentious, disarming. He seemed the country lawyer, talking good sense.\" While he used simple terms and short sentences, he was not patronizing or supercilious. \"He offered a masterful professorial performance, designed to explain the legal and constitutional confrontation in terms that struck at the core of the layman's treasured values essential to the American system.\" He defended established institutions and regular procedure. By contrast, the president's proposal involved deciding that a \"court order would not be obeyed.\" In the place of evidence, which Cox sought, the president proposed providing \"summaries\" while the genuine, irrefutable evidence, the tapes of what actually transpired, would be available to only two or three men, \"all but one of them the aides to the president and men who have been associated with those who are the subject of the investigation.\" In describing the course of the negotiations for all information, he showed how the White House lawyers had stalled from the beginning. But he never attacked anyone, at one point taking Buzhardt off the hook: \"he has behaved in dealing with me in an entirely honorable way —except that he's too damn slow.\" With the questions that followed, Cox spent more than an hour, at the end of which his staff handed out copies of the various proposals and correspondence that took place during the week. It was so persuasive a performance that Sarah McClendon, White House correspondent known for her sharp questions, approached Cox and said: \"I want to shake your hand, you are a great American.\" Doyle wrote that it was \"the most unusual press conference I have ever attended. The hard-bitten, cynical press corps was rooting for Archibald Cox.\" John Douglas said: \"It was one of the most spectacular performances, one of two or three press conference ever held in this country which have had a significant effect on public opinion.\"\n\nThe press conference also unravelled the Nixon-Haig plan. Cox did not resign, nor was he cowed by the president's directive. Moreover, instead of exploiting Richardson's reputation for integrity to his own advantage (a key feature on which the plan was based), the president was forced to act in his own name, and Cox was able to draw Richardson to his side by defending him as honorable. So the White House decided to fire Cox. It was unable, however, to make either Richardson or his deputy William Ruckelshaus carry out the order. Each resigned in turn rather than fire Cox, although the White House later claimed it fired Ruckelshaus. Solicitor General Robert Bork (third in line at the Justice Department) in a face-to-face meeting with the president agreed to issue the order as the acting attorney general and he also decided not to resign after so doing. As for the termination itself, Bork sent a written order to Cox by messenger that evening to Cox's home.\n\nThe White House then fatally overplayed its hand. At 8:25 p.m. press secretary Ron Ziegler announced what would become known as the \"Saturday Night Massacre.\" He explained that Cox had been fired, but added, somewhat gratuitously (and, as it would ultimately transpire, inaccurately), \"the office of the Special Prosecution Force has been abolished as of approximately 8 P.M. tonight.\" Haig compounded the bad publicity by publicly sealing the offices of the Special Prosecutor as well as those of Richardson and Ruckelshaus. He explained his conduct by saying: \"You would turn the country into a banana republic if you allowed defiance of the president.\" To Judge Sirica, who watched it on television, it was the cordoning off of the Special Prosecutor's offices that looked like part of a Latin American coup. Fred Emery wrote for the \"Times of London\" that there was \"a whiff of the Gestapo in the chill October air.\" FBI agents showed up at the Special Prosecutor's offices at 9:00 p.m. and briefly prevented deputy prosecutor Henry Ruth from entering. Staffers inside were told they were not permitted to remove any documents, official or personal. At a hastily arranged press conference in the library of the building, Ruth and Doyle explained that they had taken copies of major memos to a safe place the night before, but that they were concerned about the vast amount of material still in the office that had not been presented to the grand jury. Doyle read Cox's statement on his termination: \"Whether we shall continue to be a Government of laws and not of men is now for Congress and ultimately the American people.\"\nThe actions of Nixon and his aides that night produced \"results precisely the opposite to what the president and his lawyers had anticipated.\" Instead of simply removing Cox, \"they raised a 'firestorm' of protest that permanently scarred Nixon's credibility with the public, and, most damagingly, with Congressional Republicans and Southern Democrats.\" Public reaction, even though it was a holiday weekend, was swift and overwhelming. About 450,000 telegrams and cables reached the White House and Congress. Mail and wires were put in bundles then sorted by state. The deluge eclipsed any previous record. Outside the White House, marchers held signs saying \"Honk for Impeachment\"; car horns were heard in downtown Washington day and night for two weeks. But more concerning to the White House must have been the political reaction. On Sunday John B. Anderson, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, predicted that \"impeachment resolutions are going to be raining down like hailstorms.\" George H.W. Bush, then Chairman of the Republican National Committee, was so concerned over the electoral consequences that he visited the White House, hoping to persuade the president to rehire Richardson for damage control, perhaps as ambassador to the U.S.S.R. On Tuesday, Speaker Carl Albert began referring impeachment resolutions to the House Judiciary Committee with the consent of Gerald Ford. Nixon lawyer Leonard Garment said that the White House was paralyzed. \"[H]e thought of little else except to marvel 'over the mischief we had wrought and the public relations disaster we had brought on ourselves.'\"\n\nIn the end, Nixon did not even achieve the short-term tactical benefit the maneuver was designed to afford him. On Tuesday afternoon eleven lawyers from the Special Prosecutor's force convened with Wright and Buzhardt in the courtroom of Judge Sirica, for further proceedings on the subpoenas. That weekend Sirica drafted an order to show cause why Nixon should not be held in contempt. He was thinking of a $25,000 to $50,000 a day fine until the president complied. To everyone's amazement, Wright announced that the president was prepared to produce all the material ordered. Not long afterward, Leon Jaworski would be appointed Special Prosecutor and, because of Nixon's wounded public standing, was given even more independence than Cox had. Cox would not be part of any of it, however, for after a brief farewell meeting with his staff (whom Jaworski would keep), advising them how important it was that they continue and assuring them of Jaworski's good faith, he and Phyllis drove off in their pickup truck to their place in Brooksville, Maine.\n\nCox's colleague and friend Philip Heymann described the effect of that weekend from Cox's address, through the massacre and the reaction:\nCox's case on the tapes did not go to the Supreme Court, but when the president tried to resist a later subpoena by Jaworski, the case made its way to the Court. On July 24, 1974, only three days after oral argument, United States Supreme Court voted by 8 to 0 to reject Nixon's claims of executive privilege and enforced the subpoena requiring the release of the tapes. Fifteen days later Nixon announced his decision to resign as president effective the next day, August 8, 1974. Many legal experts outside of the United States were shocked at how legal process, particularly one issued at the request of a subordinate official, could require the head of state to do anything. Cox wrote of one scholar who said: \"It is \"unthinkable\" that the courts of any country should issue an order to its Chief of State.\" Cox spent much of the rest of his career writing on the unique place of the Court in the American system of government. As for this particular case, when it was all over, \"Times\" legal correspondent Anthony Lewis gave chief credit for the extraordinary result to Cox: \n\nCox spent the academic year from September 1974 to Spring 1975 at the University of Cambridge as the Pitt Professor of American History and Institutions. During that year Cox and his wife were able to travel throughout Britain and Ireland meeting judges, lawyers and other dignitaries. Cox lectured to packed houses, including at Oxford where he delivered the Chichele Lectures at All Souls College. The Coxes also occasionally socialized with the Richardsons, Elliot having been appointed by President Ford as the Ambassador to the Court of St James's. They were even able to spend a weekend in Scotland with David Graham-Campbell, the commander of corps that Cox's brother Robert served in when he died during World War II.\n\nWhen Cox returned to Harvard in the Fall of 1975 he returned to teaching and writing full-time. His interests were now almost exclusively constitutional law, but he occasionally would teach a course in labor law. Faculty members and students noticed a change in his style of teaching. Whereas once he was known as the austere, dominating law professor drilling students with the Socratic method, and even was considered a possible basis for the fictional Professor Kingsfield, he was now referred to in student evaluations as \"interesting, kind, decent.\" Derek Bok concluded: \"He developed an affection for people.\"\n\nCox's outside activities shifted from arbitration to government reform and appellate advocacy. In 1975, court reform was a top priority in Massachusetts where criminal cases had backlogged the system, which (because they required priority) resulted in even greater congestion of civil cases. Cox was appointed to a Massachusetts Bar committee to study the problem. in February 1976 Governor Michael Dukakis appointed Cox to head the 20 member Governor's Select Committee on Judicial Needs to make recommendations. In December the committee issued the Cox-drafted report, entitled \"Report on the State of the Massachusetts Court.\" The Report's most important recommendations were a structuring of the District Courts, state assumption of the administrative costs of the courts, placing management of the court system in the hands of the chief justice of the Supreme Judicial Court, abolition of trials \"de novo\" in appeals from the District Court and tightening of the rules for remand and continuances. Despite the fact that the Governor made judicial reform along the lines of the Cox report his \"top\" legislative priority for 1976, and despite the fact that the proposal was supported by the newspapers of the state, and despite intense lobbying efforts by Cox himself (not only in testimony before the legislatures but also in numerous speaking events throughout the state) over the course of 1976, the legislation ultimately ran out of time in the 1977 legislative session. In the next session the bill was drastically revised, but ultimately retained the state take-over of funding and implemented some centralization and coordination.\n\nJust as his public support for Udall was uncharacteristic, after Watergate Cox was more open to represent groups not a part of traditional institutions. But Cox's chief interest was always in Supreme Court advocacy. And he would argue two more landmark cases.\n\nThe first of the cases arose out of the 1974 amendments of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971. These amendments were a response to the campaign finance abuses of Nixon's Committee for the Re-Election of the President, which Cox was familiar with as Special Watergate Prosecutor. The amendments provided for financial reporting by federal campaigns, established a variety of contribution and spending limitations and provided for public funding of presidential campaigns. A variety of plaintiffs sued, claiming the regulatory scheme violated their right to free speech. In 1975 the case reached the Supreme Court, and Senators Edward Kennedy and Hugh Scott requested Cox to file an \"amicus\" brief on their behalf. Common Cause had intervened as a party in the lower court and therefore had time a right to argue before the Court, but its counsel Lloyd Cutler disagreed with the position taken by the organization (which supported the amendments) and Cox was asked to argue on its behalf.\n\nCox's key argument was that the contribution of money, even when done to enable public discourse is not \"speech\" but rather \"conduct.\" Nor was total campaign spending, even though part of it was used to enable \"speech.\" In light of the realities of escalating campaign contributions, Congress had a right to regulate this conduct to reduce corruption and to counter public cynicism in the electoral process. Cox argued that such conduct should be subject to a lesser standard of court review than the strict scrutiny of restrictions on pure political speech. The Court's decision in the case, known as \"Buckley v. Valeo\". was a bizarre array of separate opinions on various parts of the amendments, with only a brief \"per curiam\" decision tallying the votes on each issue. The Court rejected Cox's approach. As Justice White put it in dissent, the Court held that 'money talks\" without considering the variety of ways that federal laws regulate speech in other contexts. Nevertheless, while it voided limits on campaign spending, it upheld contribution limits, financial reporting requirements and the conditions to financing of presidential campaigns. John W. Gardner, the chairman of Common Cause called it a victory for those who \"worked so hard to clean up politics in this country.\"\n\nThe second significant case Cox participated in dealt with affirmative action. In 1976 the California Supreme Court had ruled that the University of California–Davis Medical School had violated the equal protection clause of the fourteenth amendment by failing to admit Allan Bakke, a 37-year-old white engineering student, who claimed that he was barred by a \"racial quota.\" The trustees sought out Cox to argue the case in the Supreme Court, Cox who had already prepared a brief on the issue in the \"DeFunis\" case, agreed to take the case on the condition that other lawyers take primary responsibility for preparing the brief, something highly unusual for Cox who normally carefully supervised and revised anything that went to the Court under his name, but necessary because of the work involved on the Massachusetts court reform committee When the case came on to be argued, on October 12, 1977, Cox was in the midst of his heaviest schedule of lobbying for the reform bill with the legislative session over after the holidays. The crux of his argument was to separate two questions facing universities who had fewer places available than qualified candidates: 1) Which candidates are capable of benefiting from the education provided by the school? and 2) From that group what characteristics can the school employ to make up a class benefits each other, the school and the community. It is the confusing of the two questions that gives rise to the claim that a \"quota\" exists.\n\nCox opened his \"Bakke\" argument by stating these questions in an elegant way that put the case at its most forceful; namely, that unless the Court permitted universities to take race into account to promote minority participation in learned professions, they would be excluded except for a very small number. The case, known as \"Regents of the University of California v. Bakke\" produced several opinions: four justices opined that taking race into account was never permissible; four, on the other hand, that it was permissible if \"benign.\" Justice Lewis Powell, whose plurality opinion, joined in by the different groups in different parts, tried to thread the needle. While he rejected a fixed number of acceptances (a so-called \"quota\"), and thus affirmed Bakke's admission in this case, he also answered Cox's framing of the question in the affirmative and said that universities are entitled to take race into account as one factor among many. Assistant Attorney General Drew S. Days, III, who watched the argument felt that Cox's presence was crucial as a symbol of the \"establishment\" assuring the Court (and the conservative Justice Powell) that the position was not \"outlandish.\" Lewis's approach opinion underlies the approach of most university affirmative actions policies today.\n\nIn late 1978 a new seat became available in the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit (the federal appellate court sitting in Boston) when Congress expanded the federal judiciary by 152 judges. Observers expected Senator Kennedy to avail himself of the tradition allowing the Senator of the president's political party to name federal judges in his state to propose Archibald Cox. In March 1979 a panel of lawyers appointed by President Carter unanimously recommended Cox as their first choice among five for the nomination. Cox was highly doubtful, however, that Carter would appoint him in light of his prominent support of Udall three years earlier, but nevertheless filled out the application and submitted to background checks. Then in June the \"New York Times\" reported that the nomination was \"stalled.\" Some anonymous sources claimed that Attorney General Griffin B. Bell objected to the nomination on the ground that Cox at 67 was too old, noting that the ABA suggested that no one over 64 be named to the job. Another suggested that behind this rationale was antagonisms between Bell and Cox dating back to when Cox was Solicitor General and Bell was an appellate court judge in the south. Another source said that the Justice Department was holding up the appointment because Kennedy was attempting to assert undue influence as Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, who had the ability to block appointments across the country. Publicly, however, all the parties insisted that the delay was nothing out of the ordinary.\n\nWithin the White House Cox had his defenders who argued strongly against the \"rule of 64\" and even obtained an opinion that the ABA would not object to Cox's appointment. Kennedy even spoke personally to Carter, urging that the appointment would redound to the president's political benefit, but Carter told him he would not appoint Cox. When the decision was made members of Carter's own judicial selection publicly expressed their anger over the decision. Carter's 1976 New York campaign manager listed the failure to appoint Cox as one of several ways in which the Administration had \"behaved foolishly\" simply to snub Kennedy. The following year another panel assembled by Carter asked Cox if he wished again to apply for a judgeship. Cox quickly turned down offer of interest. His colleague Stephen Breyer obtained the appointment.\n\nHis judicial ambitions over, Cox turned his energies to leading outside advocacy and policy-making groups. In 1980 Cox was elected chairman of Common Cause, the 230,000 member citizens' lobby, as John Gardner's successor. Cox wrote that \"[t]he challenge was to reshape the machinery of self-government … so that every citizen knows that he or she can participate and that his or her participation counts ... .\" That same year he also became the founding chairman of the Health Effects Institute, a partnership between the Environmental Protection Agency and private automobile and truck manufacturers to study the effects of emissions from motor vehicles. Cox said that the organization was designed to take the testing and scientific research concerning the health effects of this type of pollution \"out of the adversarial context.\"\n\nIt was as head of Common Cause, however, that he was to make his final mark; his goal was to make government more transparent and responsible to the broad public rather than special interests in order to restore faith in government institutions. The very day he took office, the Abscam affair was leaked. While Cox personally deplored the leak, he immediately sent letters to congressional leaders underlining \"the urgent necessity of looking into the charges to demonstrate that Congress is concerned about its honor and integrity.\" In July 1980 the organization instituted its first major litigation under Cox, and it was a follow-up on \"Buckley v. Valeo\": Common Cause sued the four \"independent\" groups that promised to spend between $38 and $58 million for television and print advertisements in support of the election of Ronald Reagan, even though he agreed to abide by spending limits of $29.4 million as part of the agreement he made in accepting public financing. Right to work groups used the occasion to criticize Cox for attacking voluntary independent expenditures while ignoring union efforts on behalf of candidates. The D.C. District Court dismissed the case on the ground that any restrictions on \"independent\" spending amounted to an unconstitutional abridgment of freedom of speech. The Supreme Court, affirmed the decision by an equally divided court (Justice O'Connor not participating). That case would be Cox's last argument before the Supreme Court.\n\nConservatives' complaints against Common Cause became more general and more numerous from that summer to fall when the organization celebrated its tenth anniversary. Henry Fairlie published in the June issue of \"Harper's\" a broad (but largely unspecific) complaint against the organization for representing all that was wrong with American politics: \"The underlying thrust of Common Cause reforms has been to weaken the political role of the very associations that give power to the otherwise powerless, and in the name of this misguided notion of participatory democracy Common Cause increases the opportunities of the already influential to extend their privileges.\" Tom Bethell (Washington editor of Harper's) wrote in the \"Times\" \" The concept of 'reform' itself is beginning to be viewed with skepticism. Writers are more and more inclined to put the word inside quotation marks. In Washington these days, one often hears references to 'the unintended consequences of reform. Cox responded in an address on September 6, 1980: It was not reforms that were the problem, but rather incomplete implementation of them. The flood of money into national political campaigns was not the result of campaign finance reform, but of inadequate regulation of \"independent\" committees that informally coordinated with the campaigns. \"[D]amaging and dangerous as the rising rate of influence of political action committee contributions is … the present law is clearly preferable to the old pre-Watergate conditions.\"\n\nCox continued his campaign against large campaign contributions, but he was largely unsuccessful in effecting any further change. He also supported efforts to increase voter participation by testifying in favor of bilingual ballots\n\nAfter twelve years at the helm, Cox, at 79, chose to retire from the chairmanship of Common Cause as of February 1992.\n\nHaving taught for two years beyond Harvard's mandatory retirement age, Cox was finally forced to retire from the Harvard Law School faculty at the end of the 1983-84 school year. Cox wryly said: \"I won't be allowed to teach anymore. I'm presumed to be senile.\" He then accepted a teaching position at Boston University School of Law. Boston University Law School made up a specific retirement policy for Cox; according to Dean Ronald A. Cass: \"He teaches as long as he wants to.\"\n\nCox died at his home in Brooksville, Maine, of natural causes on May 29, 2004. He and his wife, Phyllis, had been married for 67 years. At the time of his death his daughter Sarah (in business management) lived in Brooksville, Archibald, Jr. (who broke with family tradition and entered finance rather than law) in Markleville, Indiana and Phyllis (who became a lawyer) in Denver. At the time he had several grandchildren and great grandchildren. Phyllis died on February 6, 2007.\n\nIn addition to his case book, he was the author of nearly a hundred scholarly articles.\n\nDuring his career at Harvard, Professor Cox was honored with the following chaired or university professorships:\n\n\nThroughout his life Cox was the recipient of numerous honorary degrees, including: M.A.: Sidney Sussex College, University Cambridge, England 1974; L.H.D.: Hahnemann Medical College, Philadelphia, 1980; LL.D: Loyola University Chicago, 1964, University of Cincinnati, 1967, University of Denver, 1974, Amherst College, 1974, Rutgers, 1974, Harvard University, 1975, Michigan State, 1976, Wheaton College, 1977, Northeastern University, 1978, Clark, 1980, University of Massachusetts Amherst, 1981, University of Notre Dame, 1983, University of Illinois, 1985, Claremont Graduate School, 1987, Colby College, 1988.\n\nCox was elected member to or granted recognition by the following societies:\n\n\nIn 1935 Cox won the Sears Prize for his performance during first year in law school.\n\nAfter he resigned his faculty position at Harvard and until he returned in 1965, Cox served as a member of Harvard's Board of Overseers.\n\nIn 1991 the faculty of Harvard Law School made Cox an honorary member of the Order of the Coif, an historic group that recognizes significant contributions to the legal profession.\n\nIn 1995 the Institute of Government and Public Affairs awarded Cox its Ethics in Government Award. Cox was also the recipient of the Thomas \"Tip\" O'Neill Citizenship Award.\n\nOn January 8, 2001, Cox was presented with the Presidential Citizens Medal by President Bill Clinton, saying: \"Archibald Cox, every American, whether he or she knows your name or not, owes you a profound debt of thanks for a lifetime of your service to your country and its Constitution.\"\n\nBooks:\n\nArticles:\n\nOral histories:\n\n\"Of Cox\"\n\nUnsigned pieces:\n\n"}
{"id": "53366132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53366132", "title": "Ashrama, California", "text": "Ashrama, California\n\nAshrama is a spiritual retreat located in the Upper San Antonio Valley in unincorporated Santa Clara County, California, United States. It is approximately 40 miles east of downtown San Jose.\n\nThe retreat resides on of oak-studded chaparral scrubland near Upper San Antonio Valley Road, about 18 miles southeast of Mount Hamilton. The land was gifted to the Vedanta Society at the turn of the 20th century, as a place for meditation and contemplation. A meditation cabin there serves as the site for annual retreats.\n\n"}
{"id": "47978099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47978099", "title": "Audio therapy", "text": "Audio therapy\n\nAudio therapy is the clinical use of recorded sound, music, or spoken words, or a combination thereof, recorded on a physical medium such as a compact disc (CD), or a digital file, including those formatted as MP3, which patients or participants play on a suitable device, and to which they listen with intent to experience a subsequent beneficial physiological, psychological, or social effect.\n\nAudio therapy synthesises elements from a number of discrete areas of research and practice, including receptive music therapy, bibliotherapy, creative visualization, guided imagery, guided meditation, sound healing, and cognitive behavioral therapy.\n\nThe term \"receptive music therapy\" denotes a process by which patients or participants listen to music with specific intent to therapeutically benefit; and is a term used by therapists to distinguish it from \"active music therapy\" by which patients or participants engage in producing vocal or instrumental music.\n\nReceptive music therapy is an effective adjunctive intervention suitable for treating a range of physical and mental conditions.\n\nAudio therapy inherits from receptive music therapy the process by which listening to sound benefits a listener, but departs from it in three significant ways.\n\nFirstly, whilst receptive music therapy provides musical sound, to which the patient or participant listens, audio therapy also uses other kinds of acoustic content, including the spoken word and ambient noise.\n\nSecondly, practitioners of receptive music therapy allege that its effective application requires the presence of a therapist, emphasizing the relationship between the client and the therapist, between the client and the music, and between the client and therapist interacting with the music. In contrast and by distinction, audio therapy is provided as a self-service modality, through which the listener is purported to experience a therapeutic benefit in consequence to listening, without input or guidance form a third party.\n\nThirdly, whilst receptive music therapy may provide live as well as recorded music, to which the patient or participant listens, audio therapy is always provided via a sound recording.\n\nBibliotherapy is the process by which a patient or participant reads fiction, poetry, and other creative with intent to experience a therapeutic outcome that manifests most commonly as the relief of psychological pain or mental distress as well as an increased introspective insight into himself or herself.\n\nBibliotherapy is often situated in a context where it is one of multiple interventions, and is usually grounded in a specific psychotherapeutic or psychological discipline. One such discipline is cognitive behavioral therapy. Unlike music therapy, but similar to audio therapy, the most important aspect of cognitive bibliotherapy is the content of the recording, and not the individual interactions with a therapist.\n\nAudio therapy imports the principles of bibliotherapy but provides the content on a recorded media, making therapeutic use of audiobooks\n\nCreative visualization is the cognitive process of purposefully generating visual mental imagery, with eyes open or closed, simulating or recreating visual perception, in order to maintain, inspect, and transform those images, consequently modifying their associated emotions or feelings, with intent to experience a subsequent beneficial physiological, psychological, or social effect, such as expediting the healing of wounds to the body, minimizing physical pain, alleviating psychological pain including anxiety, sadness, and low mood, improving self-esteem or self-confidence, and enhancing the capacity to cope when interacting with others.\n\nCreative visualization can be facilitated in person by a teacher or practitioner, or provided on recorded media. Whether provided in person, or delivered via media, as it is in audio therapy the verbal instruction consists of words, often pre-scripted, intended to direct the participant's attention to intentionally generated visual mental images that precipitate a positive psychologic and physiologic response, incorporating increased mental and physical relaxation and decreased mental and physical stress.\n\nGuided imagery is a mind-body intervention by which a trained practitioner or teacher helps a participant or patient to evoke and generate mental images that simulate or re-create the sensory perception of sights, sounds, tastes, smells, movements, and images associated with touch, such as texture, temperature, and pressure, as well as imaginative or mental content that the participant or patient experiences as defying conventional sensory categories, and that may precipitate strong emotions or feelings. in the absence of the stimuli to which correlating sensory receptors are receptive.\n\nThe practitioner or teacher may facilitate this process in person to an individual or a group. Alternatively, the participant or patient may follow guidance provided by a recording of spoken instruction that may be accompanied by music or sound, as it is in audio therapy.\n\nGuided meditation is a process by which one or more participants meditate in response to the guidance provided by a trained practitioner or teacher, either in person or via a written text, sound recording, video, or audiovisual media comprising music or verbal instruction, or a combination of both.\n\nAudio therapy facilitates guided meditation for therapeutic benefit through the provision of recordings.\n\nThe term \"guided meditation\" is most commonly used in clinical practice, scholarly research, and scientific investigation to signify an aggregate of integrated techniques. The most common and frequently used combination or synthesis comprises meditation music and receptive music therapy, guided imagery, relaxation, some form of meditative practice, and journaling. Less commonly, hypnosis, or hypnotherapeutic procedures are included as part of the multifaceted intervention denoted by the term \"guided meditation\".\n\nCognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a form of psychotherapy that can be delivered effectively to a range of patients through the provision of audio recordings, as it is in audio therapy, which provide the patient with instruction pertaining to the management of thoughts, feelings, and behaviors.\n\nAudio therapy is predicated on the hypothesis that attentively listening to recorded sound, such as music, spoken words, or ambient noise, affects thoughts and feelings, which in turn affects brain electrochemistry and body physiology. It may therefore be considered as a mind-body intervention, as defined by the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH). The NCCIH defines mind–body interventions as those practices that \"employ a variety of techniques designed to facilitate the mind's capacity to affect bodily function and symptoms\", and include guided imagery, guided meditation and forms of meditative activity, hypnosis and hypnotherapy, prayer, as well as art therapy, music therapy, and dance therapy.\n\nAlthough the means by which the mind affects the body is largely unknown, it is explained to a significant degree by psychoneuroimmunology.\n\nThe term \"psychoneuroimmunology\" was coined by the American psychologist Robert Ader in 1981 to describe the study of interactions between psychological, neurological, and immune systems.\n\nThe fundamental hypothesis of psychoneuroimmunology is concisely that the way people think and how they feel directly influences the electrochemistry of the brain and central nervous system, which in turn has a significant influence on the immune system and its capacity to defend the body against disease infection, and ill health. Meanwhile, the immune system affects brain chemistry and its electrical activity, which in turn has a considerable effect on the way we think and feel.\n\nBecause of this interplay, a person's negative thoughts, feelings, and perceptions, such as pessimistic predictions about the future, regretful ruminations upon the past, low self-esteem, and depleted belief in self-determination and a capacity to cope can undermine the efficiency of the immune system, increasing vulnerability to ill health. Simultaneously, the biochemical indicators of ill health monitored by the immune system feeds back to the brain via the nervous system, which exacerbates thoughts and feelings of a negative nature. That is to say, we feel and think of ourselves as unwell, which contributes to physical conditions of ill health, which in turn cause us to feel and think of ourselves as unwell.\n\nHowever, the interplay between cognitive and emotional, neurological, and immunological processes also provides for the possibility of positively influencing the body and enhancing physical health by changing the way we think and feel. For example, people who are able to deconstruct the cognitive distortions that precipitate perpetual pessimism and hopelessness and further develop the capacity to perceive themselves as having a significant degree of self-determination and capacity to cope are more likely to avoid and recover from ill health more quickly than those who remain engaged in negative thoughts and feelings.\n"}
{"id": "46940257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46940257", "title": "Barbagian Code", "text": "Barbagian Code\n\nThe Barbagian Code can be called a \"code of behavior\" not written that prevailed not only in the Barbagia, the Sardinian historical region referred to, but in all the municipalities of province of Nuoro and Ogliastra, in those of Goceano (province of Sassari) and in some high Oristanese.\n\nThis is a kind of code of honor, similar to a parallel justice, which has sometimes replaced legal organs of the territory. Some scholars believe that behind the creation of the \"Code\" there is the lack of protection of the individual from the state, which in the years in question was not present in the territory.\n\nThis situation of a stateless motivated the bloody actions of criminal organizations of the 20th century and ruled the wires of the same organization Sardinian Kidnappings Anonima in the 1960s.\n\nAccording to research by Antoinetta Mazzette, professor at the University of Sassari, conducted in 2006 in this area takes place most of the bloody events of the island. Although the population is very small, this area corresponds to that in which it developed, from 18th century, the so-called \"classic banditry\".\n\nMuch of the code is and defines the \"injuries suffered\", by the personal insult, theft and murder, and penalties; the socio-economic environment in which this process has been developed is to agro-pastoral. The purpose is to protect the honor and the dignity of the individual.\n\nIn case an individual suffers a theft of cattle, it will not be theft in itself to constitute damage, but the intrinsic meaning to which was targeted crime: in this case the loss of the family self-subsistence \"offense\". The latter will have the right to vengeance, which must be proportionate to the damage suffered. As regards the side of the strictly economic loss, the individual offended commit in turn a theft of cattle to return to a \"situation of equality\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22265083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22265083", "title": "Boris Grushin", "text": "Boris Grushin\n\nBoris Andreevich Grushin (; 2 August 1929, Moscow – 18 September 2007, Moscow) was a well-known Soviet and Russian philosopher, sociologist and historical and sociological scientist. He is generally seen as the pioneer of public opinion polling in the Soviet Union more than thirty years before its breakup. Prominent American novelist Olga Grushin is his daughter.\n\nGrushin graduated from the Faculty of Philosophy of the Lomonosov Moscow State University in 1952 with a dissertation on \"The Logical and Historical Problem in Marx's Capital\". In 1957 he completed his postgraduate study in the same place, with a thesis on \"Receptions and Ways of Reproducing the Thoughts of Historical Development\".\n\nAt the same time in 1952 Grushin was one of the founders of the Moscow Logic Circle. Other members who entered the circle included Aleksandr Zinovyev, Merab Mamardashvili and Georgy Schedrovitsky. It was later called the Moscow Methodological Circle (ММК).\n\nIn 1960 he founded the Institute of Public Opinion at the newspaper \"Komsomolskaya Pravda\" where problems within the Soviet Union were brought to daylight and analyzed through public opinion surveys for the very first time.\n\nIn 1967 Grushin received a doctorate in philosophy from the Institute of Philosophy of the Academy of Sciences of the Soviet Union for his work concerning the \"Problem of Methodology while Researching Public Opinion\". He decided to leave the newspaper work afterwards and devoted himself to several different projects.\n\nBetween 1962–1965 and 1977–1981 Grushin was an employee of the journal \"Problems of Peace and Socialism\" in Prague, Czechoslovakia. In the years of 1967–1968 and 1982–1989 he worked at the Faculty of Journalism of the Lomonosov Moscow State University.\n\nIn the two years from 1988 to 1990 he was one of the organizers and directors of the All-Soviet Center for Public Opinion Studies (VCIOM), which gave him the chance to expand his work on public opinion surveys.\n\nMeanwhile in 1989, Grushin created the Service of studying of public opinion Vox Populi the first detached and completely private opinion center in the Soviet Union.\n\nBetween all his projects Grushin worked at several academic centers such as the Institute of Sociological Researches and the Central Economic Mathematical Institute. He taught at different universities in Russia and the USA and in 1993 worked as one of the advisers of president Boris Yeltsin.\n\nIn 2003 Grushin received the award of the Union of Russian Journalists for \"journalistic skills\" in his book \"Four Lives of Russia\".\n\nGrushin died on September 18, 2007 in Moscow.\n\nLong after his death Boris Grushin will be remembered as one of the founding fathers of Russian sociology who firmly worked towards the recognition for sociology as a scientific discipline. Some of his pupils and followers include J. Kapeljush, V. Sazonov, T. Dridze, A. Zhavoronkov, A. Vozmitel, V.Korobejnikov, E. Andrjushchenko, V. Tokarovsky, E. Avraamova, L. Byzov and many more.\n\n"}
{"id": "59041394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59041394", "title": "British Society for Phenomenology", "text": "British Society for Phenomenology\n\nBritish Society for Phenomenology (BSP) is an organization whose purpose is to pursue and exchange philosophical ideas inspired by phenomenology\". It was established in 1967 by Wolfe Mays. BSP publishes \"Journal of the British Society for Phenomenology\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "597958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=597958", "title": "Chaudhry Mohammad Ali", "text": "Chaudhry Mohammad Ali\n\nChaudhry Muhammad Ali (  15 July 1905 – 2 December 1980), best known as Muhammad Ali, was the fourth Prime Minister of Pakistan , appointed on 12 August 1955 until being removed through a successful passage of vote of no confidence motion in the National Assembly on 12 September 1956.\n\nHis credibility is noted for promulgating the first set of the Constitution of Pakistan lost political endorsement from his party when failing to investigate the allegations on vote rigging and the secret defections in favor of the Republican Party.\n\nMuhammad Ali was born in Jullundar, Punjab in India on 15 July 1905. His family were Arain clan having Arab ancestry. The \"prefix\", Chaudhry, added before his name to represent his family's land holding status.\n\nAfter his matriculation, Muhammad Ali showed great aptitude for science, first moving to attend the Punjab University in Lahore where he read and graduated with BSc degree in Chemistry in 1925. In 1927, Muhammad Ali attained MSc in Chemistry from Punjab University, and lectured at the Islamia College until 1928.\n\nIn 1928, Muhammad Ali went to join the Indian Civil Service, first working as an accountant at the Audit and Accounts Service and was deputed to audit the Bahawalpur state. In 1936, Muhammad Ali was moved as Private Secretary to James Grigg, the Finance minister of India, who later appointed him as the First Indian financial adviser when Grigg was appointed as the War Secretary in 1945. In 1946-47, Muhammad Ali was selected to serve as one of two secretaries to the presided over by Lord Mountbatten, later appointed as Finance Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Over this issue of partition, Muhammad Ali worked with H.M. Patel and Walter Christir to prepare a document titled \"The Administrative Consequences of Partition\". \n\nBy the time of the India's partition in 1947, Muhammad Ali was one of the senior Indian civil service officer in India, and decided to opted for Pakistan on 15 August 1947. \n\nAfter the establishment of Pakistan in 1947, Muhammad Ali was moved as the Finance Secretary under Finance Minister Sir Ghulam Muhammad, alongside with Victor Turner, but this appointment lasted until 1948 due a cabinet reshuffle. He was appointed as the Federal Secretary at the Establishment Division, and aided greatly in setting up the civil bureaucracy and preparing the nation's first federal budget presented by Finance Minister Sir Ghulam Muhammad in 1951.\n\nIn 1951, Muhammad Ali was appointed as the Finance Minister by Prime Minister K. Nazimuddin and was announced to be kept in the Finance ministry in Bogra's Talent ministry in 1953. \n\nOn 11 August 1955, Muhammad Ali was appointed as the Prime Minister of Pakistan by then-Governor-General Iskandar Mirza, upon the dismissal of the Bogra's Talent administration. After taking oath from the Chief Justice M. Munir, Prime Minister Ali placed a great emphasis on drafting of the Constitution of Pakistan, and supported Bogra's One Unit scheme despite the opposition. \n\nHe favored French architect Michel Ecochard over Greek architect Constantinos Doxiadis over the planning of new capital in 1955, though the project nonetheless went Doxiadis in 1960s.\n\nIt was during his term when the first set of the Constitution of Pakistan was promulgated on 23 March 1956 where the nation-state was declared as Islamic Republic with a parliamentary form. His premiership was endorsed by President Iskandar Mirza and the three-party coalition government composing of Awami League, Muslim League and the Republican Party at the National Assembly. In 1955, Prime Minister Ali took over the party presidency.\n\nDespite his feat, Prime Minister Muhammad Ali proved to be a poor politician who failed to maintain control over his party when he reached a compromise to dismissed the cabinet members of his own party in favor of appointing the cabinet composing of Republican Party and Awami League in 1955-56. After appointing Abdul Jabbar Khan as the Chief minister of West-Pakistan who subsequently helped in secret trading in favor of Republican Party that made the Republicans in majority in the National Assembly, the Muslim League demanded its president to investigate the matter but Prime Minister Ali refused to support the parliamentary resolution in the National Assembly by believing that \"he was responsible only to the Cabinet and the Parliament, not the party.\"\n\nOn 8 September 1956, the parliamentary leaders of the Muslim League under A.Q. Khan, successfully brought the motion of no confidence at the National Assembly that effectively removed him from the party's presidency. Despite support from the Republican Party and President Mirza, Prime Minister Ali eventually resigned from the Office of Prime Minister of Pakistan when Huseyn S. Suhrawardy had gained support from the Muslim League for the premiership. \n\nAfter his resignation, Ali went to corporate sector and joined the National Bank as an economist but tried playing a role in national politics in 1960s but was ostracized by the Muslim League due to his political role played in 1950s. \n\nHis son, Khalid Anwer, is a well-known lawyer and constitutional expert, who served as the Law and Justice minister in Sharif's administrations while his younger son is Dr. Amjad Ahsan Ali is well known medical doctor. In 1967, he wrote his memoirs and passed away due to a cardiac arrest on 2 December 1980 in estate in Karachi where he was buried.\n\n"}
{"id": "11237247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11237247", "title": "Chinvat Bridge", "text": "Chinvat Bridge\n\nThe Chinvat Bridge [ʧinva:t] (Avestan \"Cinvatô Peretûm\", \"bridge of judgement\" or \"beam-shaped bridge\") or the Bridge of the Requiter in Zoroastrianism is the sifting bridge which separates the world of the living from the world of the dead. All souls must cross the bridge upon death. The bridge is guarded by two four-eyed dogs. A related myth is that of Yama, the Hindu ruler of Hell who watches the gates of Hell with his two four-eyed dogs.\n\nThe Bridge's appearance varies depending on the observer's asha, or righteousness. As related in the text known as the Bundahishn, if a person has been wicked, the bridge will appear narrow and the demon Vizaresh will emerge and drag their soul into the druj-demana (the House of Lies), a place of eternal punishment and suffering similar to the concept of Hell. If a person's good thoughts, words and deeds in life are many, the bridge will be wide enough to cross, and the Daena, a spirit representing revelation, will appear and lead the soul into the House of Song. Those souls that successfully cross the bridge are united with Ahura Mazda.\nOften, the Chinvat Bridge is identified with the rainbow, or with the Milky Way galaxy, such as in Professor C.P. Tiele's \"History of Religion \". However, other scholars such as C.F. Keary and Ferdinand Justi disagree with this interpretation, citing descriptions of the Chinvat Bridge as straight upward, rather than curvilinear.\n\nThree divinities are thought to be guardians of the Chinvat Bridge: Sraosha (Conscience), Mithra (Covenant) and Rashnu (Justice).\n\nAlternate names for this bridge include Chinwad, Cinvat, Chinvar or Chinavat.\n\nThe concept of the Chinvat bridge is similar to that of the As-Sirāt in Islam.\n\nIn the 71st chapter of the Avestan text, the Yasna, there is a description of the Chinvat Bridge.\nThe Vendidad also describes the Chinvat Bridge in fargard 19.\nDimitris Lyacos's second part of the trilogy Poena Damni With the People from the Bridge alludes to the Chinvat Bridge. In the book a bridge functions as part of the setting of a makeshift performance but also as a narrative element that connects the world of the living with the world of the dead.\n\nAmerican poet Charles Olson references the Chinvat Bridge (\"Cinvat\" in his reading) in his epic, The Maximus Poems; a work which deals with Avestan mythology, among numerous others.\n\nRepresentations of bridges on early medieval Sogdian funerary couches have been identified as the Chinvat Bridge. The most notable of these appears on the east wall of the funerary couch of the \"sabao\" Wirkak excavated at Xi'an, but another fragmentary depiction appears on the funerary couch in the Miho Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "51925440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51925440", "title": "Crazyflie 2.0", "text": "Crazyflie 2.0\n\nThe Crazyflie 2.0 is a lightweight, open source flying development platform based on a nano quadcopter.\n\nCrazyflie 2.0 is the second iteration of the open source Crazyflie nano quadcopter released in 2013 by Marcus Eliasson, Arnaud Taffanel, and Tobias Antonsson. The Crazyflie platform specifications are open source and available to anyone through the Bitcraze wiki and the Bitcraze Github repo\n\nThe Crazyflie 2.0 is a palm sized quadcopter weighing 27 grams supporting wireless control over radio and Bluetooth Low Energy (LE). It has a flight time of 7 minutes and a charge time of 40. As an open source project, its code and design specifications are available to anyone and the design was created with modification in mind. It's extensible with additional boards called \"decks\" - similar to Arduino shields - that are connected through two rows of pin headers.\n\nThe following decks are currently available:\n\n\nThe Crazyflie firmware is written in C++ and based on FreeRTOS. On the client side several languages can be used including Python, C++, C#, Ruby, NodeJS, Scala, Java and Ada/SPARK. There are also mobile clients for iOS and Android available.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4977310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4977310", "title": "Cross-sex friendship", "text": "Cross-sex friendship\n\nA cross-sex friendship is a platonic relationship between an unrelated man and woman. There are multiple types of cross-sex friendships, all defined by whether or not each party has a romantic attraction to each other, or perceives that the other is interested. A few theories have been developed to explain the existence of such friendships. Research has been done on why men and women initiate these relationships, how they are perceived by others, implications for children with cross-sex friendships, among others. Cross-sex friendships can also create problems for those involved if either or both have or ever had any romantic feelings for the other.\n\nFrom the 20th century and onwards, cross-sex friendships have become more prevalent, especially in the United States. These relationships play a large role in social relations of both men and women. Cross-sex relationships can often be a cause of complications because of the potential for romance or sexual interactions. Monsour (2002) defines a cross-sex friendship as a “voluntary, non-familial, non-romantic, relationship between a female and a male in which both individuals label their association as a friendship”. However, just because these friendships are labeled as “non-romantic,” one cannot assume that there are no romantic or sexual undertones.\n\nGuerrero and Chavez (2005) suggest that there are four types of cross-sex friendships: mutual romance, strictly platonic, desires romance, and rejects romance. In a “mutual romance” cross-sex friendship, one of the participants wants a romantic relationship with the other individual and believes that the other individual wants the same. In “strictly platonic” relationships, the individual believes that the other simply wants to be just platonic friends with no thought of romance. In a \"desires romance\" cross-sex friendship, one individual wants the friendship to become a romantic relationship but does not believe the other individual wants a romantic relationship. In a “rejects romance” cross-sex relationship, one individual does not want the relationship to turn romantic, but believes that their friend does. Each of these friendship styles are based on the goals and viewpoint of the individual. Other theories and research discuss the causes and benefits of cross-sex friendships.\n\nBleske-Rechek et al. (2012) theorize that cross-sex friendships are a part of humans’ evolved mating strategies. Current mating strategies unconsciously motivate individuals to enter into cross-sex friendships because it gives them more opportunities to mate. As a result, individuals within these cross-sex friendships often develop attraction to the other individual, even when that attraction is completely unintended. This evolutionary theory predicts that cross-sex friendships are formed by males for sexual access and by females for protection. This demonstrates one way in which cross-sex friendships serve, in part, as a long term mating acquisition strategy. Having more opportunities to mate is an evolutionary advantage, however, being attracted to a cross-sex friend creates negative social consequences. This is especially true for younger adults who are attracted to a cross-sex friend, because these people report less satisfaction in their current romantic relationship. Also, middle-aged adults tend to nominate attraction to their cross-sex friends as more of a negative than a positive.\n\nIn addition, social learning theory predicts that if cross-sex friendships are a result of the desire for sexual access and protection, this is because they are imitating other cross-sex friendships. Most popular television shows and movies suggest that the goal of forming cross-sex friendships is a romantic relationship. People learn from the friendships they see in popular culture and model their behavior after them.\n\nPreference for same sex relationships is a societal norm that is taught to children from a young age. This homosocial norm encourages same sex friendships early on that shape how adolescents view and measure cross-sex friendships. Culturally supported rules about friendships and gender influence the formation of interpersonal relationships. For this reason, ideas of cross-sex friendship can vary from place to place. While diverse cultures view relationships across genders differently, studies have shown that similar ideals for friendship seem to exist around the world in areas such as the United States, Europe, and East Asia. Additionally, adolescent definitions of cross-sex friendships closely match definitions given by adults, suggesting that children develop perceptions on the matter by imitating the opinions of adults in their lives.\n\nDuring adolescence, a distinction starts to form between romantic relationships and platonic friendships, which is influenced by personal experience as well as exposure to media and popular culture. Teenagers learn from portrayals of romance on television and base their own relationships on these representations. Popular media romanticizes and sexualizes interactions between people of opposite sexes, leading to a cultural expectation of sexual attraction in cross-sex friendships. This common conception leads a small percentage of the population to believe that men and women cannot exist in solely platonic friendships.\n\nKim Elsesser and Letitia Anne Peplau found that the professional workplace environment and heightened sexual harassment awareness can hinder cross-sex friendship formation. The barrier between men and women forming cross-sex friendships in the professional workplace is called the \"glass partition\" because of its similarities to the glass ceiling, which prevents women from reaching the top levels of leadership of corporations. The glass partition disadvantages women who work in predominantly male workplaces because women have fewer opportunities for networking. The glass partition results from fearing that friendliness toward a cross-sex friend will be misinterpreted by the friend and by co-workers as romantic or sexual interest, that humor may be perceived as sexual harassment by cross-sex friends, and that conversational topics might be perceived as offensive by cross-sex friends.\n\nWhen coworkers or other third parties see a cross-sex friendship in the workplace as romantic, this relationship is often viewed negatively, hurting both the male and female worker. This concern becomes specifically prevalent when dealing with cross-sex friendships between superiors and subordinates. It is more likely that this relationship can be misconstrued as often the subordinate, usually a female, might be seen as trying to make advances in order to further their career.\n\nSexual harassment can hinder the development of cross-sex friendships as well. It is typical practice in companies and organizations to have policies against sexual harassment and to conduct trainings regarding sexual harassment. Due to this heightened awareness of sexual harassment occurrences, many individuals will step back from cross-sex friendships as they can sometimes be misinterpreted by the opposite sex individual or bystanders as sexual harassment. In the study conducted by Elsesser and Peplau, it was stated that most men interviewed in their study often think over conversation topics before initiating conversation with women coworkers, in fear that their comments would be misinterpreted as sexual harassment. In the cases of such wrong accusations, many would rather avoid the possibility of such a situation through avoiding the development of cross-sex friendships as opposed to deal with the possible misconceptions.\n\nFurthermore, it has been reported that oftentimes for men, there is a fear of offending the opposite sex regarding certain conversation topics. For instance, a male management consultant interviewed by Elsesser and Peplau stated that he commonly segregates by gender what type of jokes or humor he expresses in the workplace in fear that it might offend a female coworker. On the contrary, women often say that while they do not feel as though they censor their conversation as much, they can often sense such reservations and unwillingness to relax in men, making friendships awkward and harder to develop.\n\nThe fear to create cross-sex friendships in the workplace becomes a problem as friendships amongst coworkers can be specifically important for career development. Friendships can provide information access, networking and emotional support to any individual all of which are valuable for job performance. Hence, when one is limited to forming friendships with those of the same sex, certainly, they are being deprived of advancement in the workplace. Thus, effort should be put into creating workplace environments where cross-sex friendships can be formed with less question or fear.\n\nResearch has been done in the areas of attraction, protection, perception, cross-sex friendships throughout development, and touch and sexual activity between cross-sex friends. These studies find that there are some evolutionary and social benefits to cross-sex friendships. However, there are also some negative social consequences.\n\nWithin cross-sex friendships, men judge sexual attraction and the desire for sex as a more important reason than do women for initiating their friendship. Additionally, men are more sexually attracted to their opposite-sex friends and have more frequent desires to have sexual intercourse with their opposite-sex friends than women are. Bleske-Rechek et al. (2012) found that men overestimate how much their female friends are attracted to them. Women are less likely to want to date their male friends if he is in a committed relationship, but men have the same desire to date their female friend whether or not she is dating someone. Bleske-Rechek et al. (2012) hypothesize that a man’s desire to date his female friend is not changed by whether or not their female friend is in a relationship. This is due to males’ mating strategies that focus around acquiring short term mates. Furthermore, Bleske-Rechek et al. (2012) suggest that men would pursue cross-sex relationships both when single and in a relationship, while women would be less likely to pursue cross-sex friends while dating someone.\n\nAttraction within these friendships can cause challenges. Sexual attraction can arise for a variety of reasons in cross-sex friendships. In a study by Halatsis and Christakis (2009), participants cited social pressures and emotional vulnerability as reasons for sexual attraction arising in a cross-sex friendship. A social pressure that may prompt sexual attraction between cross-sex friends is the perceptions other friends have of their relationship and emotional vulnerability coupled with closeness may provoke sexual attraction between cross-sex friends. When sexual attraction develops in a friendship, it can corrupt the friendship and individuals state that behavior often changes. Sexual attraction in cross-sex friendships is often dealt with in one of three ways: management of this attraction through communication or an internal decision not to pursue the attraction in order to preserve the friendship, a sexual relationship forms then dissipates, or sex becomes a part of the friendship. When participants in the study by Halatsis and Christakis (2009) were asked about their experience with sexual attraction in cross-sex friendships, over 50% had experienced attraction, and over 50% of that group had expressed or acted on their sexual attraction. However, men had a tendency to be more attracted to their cross-sex friends, and a higher tendency to act on that attraction. Only 16% of individuals who had acted on their sexual attraction claimed that their friendship ended as a result, otherwise the friendship remained intact or transformed into a romantic relationship. \nReeder (2000) found that there are four types of attraction within cross-sex friendships: subjective physical/sexual attraction, objective physical/sexual attraction, romantic attraction, and friendship attraction. Subjective physical/sexual attraction occurs when one of the individuals in the friendship is physically attracted to the other. Objective physical/sexual attraction happens when one individual thinks that the other is attractive in general, yet they are not attracted to the person. Romantic attraction within the cross-sex friendship occurs when one of the individuals within the friendship desires to turn the friendship into a romantic relationship because they believe he or she would make a good girlfriend or boyfriend. Friendship attraction is simply when an individual feels very platonically connected to his or her friend. The four types can coexist together within a friendship or can occur separately. Furthermore, the type of attraction that an individual feels within a cross-sex friendship can change over time. Within Reeder’s (2000) sample, friendship attraction is the most prevalent type of attraction within cross-sex friendships. Even when participants felt other types of attraction within their cross-sex friendships, they prioritized their friendship attraction so that they relationship would not be ruined.\n\nHistorically, women are more vulnerable due to their smaller stature and lesser strength compared with men. Thus, women have consistently needed to secure protection for themselves. Seeking protection from men would have been an evolutionary advantage as women who do so increase their reproductive success, which has caused an evolved preference for men who are willing and able to offer protection. Therefore, it is not surprising that Bleske-Rechek & Buss (2001) found that women judged physical protection as a more important reason for initiating an opposite-sex friendship than did men and that opposite-sex friendship is a strategy women use for gaining physical protection.\n\nIn this regard, males have historically been perceived as having an advantage in cross-sex friendships because the number of resources they have to offer in the relationship exceeds those of females (Monsour et al. 57). In terms of exchange principles within the friendship, women would benefit more than men (Monsour et al. 57). While women may enter into cross-sex friendships for protection, men may enter them for the possibility of sexual encounters (Akbulut and Weger 100). These interactions are desirable because men get to spread their genes through potential offspring (Akbulut and Weger 100). In return, females can benefit from this type of cross-sex friendship through their friend’s interest in potential offspring (Akbulut and Weger 101). In this regard, the men within these cross-sex friendships would devote time and energy to caring for and protecting their potential children, which would be beneficial to the females in these relationships (Akbulut and Weger 101). Therefore, in cross-sex friendships, it has been discovered that males are commonly the ones more interested in initiating romantic relationships due to their potential benefits, as observed in a survey of male and female college students (Akbulut and Weger 110).\n\nThe way in which other individuals perceive cross-sex friends can affect the friendship itself. Cross-sex friends sometimes face the audience challenge within their social groups, which occurs when other people assume that they are in a romantic or sexual relationship and the cross-sex friends have to present themselves as just friends in response. Schoonover and McEwan (2014) state that since male-female romantic relationships are the norm, people often assume that cross-sex friendships have the potential to develop into a more intimate relationship. The different types of cross-sex friendships will experience the audience challenge in different ways. Strictly platonic friends are least likely to bring about the audience challenge, while mutual romance are the most likely to face the audience challenge. The number of cross-sex friends an individual has also plays a role in how their cross-sex friendships are perceived. When an individual has numerous cross-sex friendships, they are much less likely to face the audience challenge.\n\nRegardless of the severity of the audience challenge, those in cross-sex friendships have been found to spend a considerable amount of time thinking about how their relationship is perceived by others, according to the results of a study that surveyed young adults in cross-sex friendships (Schoonover and McEwan 399). If the peers within their social network of friends want or believe that the cross-sex friendship is romantic, issues could potentially arise in other relationships (Schoonover and McEwan 389). For example, if either member of the friendship has a romantic partner, that person could become jealous or suspicious, which could create tension and destroy the cross-sex friendship (Schoonover and McEwan 389). Therefore, the surrounding social network’s opinions of the cross-sex friendship can change the degree that the friends have to worry about the audience challenge (Schoonover and McEwan 391). In other words, as the network’s support of the cross-sex friendship as a strictly platonic relationship increases, the audience challenge decreases (Schoonover and McEwan 401). However, while the audience challenge can be a problematic issue for certain types of cross-sex friendships, it has found to not be commonly experienced within cross-sex friendships at large (Schoonover and McEwan 394). One of the main attributes to this finding was that members of the cross-sex friendships were able to effectively communicate with each other as well as their social network about the nature of their relationship and how they were being perceived (Monsour et al. 75).\n\nCross-sex friendships in childhood and adolescence often have an immense impact on adult cross-sex friendships. Successfully forming cross-sex friendships in childhood is often an indication that these individuals will be able to form positive cross-sex friendships later in life. Thus, early cross-sex friendships act as a blueprint for further social interactions. Children’s social skills and behavior can be altered based on whether or not they have predominantly same-sex friends or cross-sex friends. One study by Kovacs, Parker, and Hoffman (1996), they found that children who primarily had friends of the opposite sex were perceived to be more aggressive, yet less shy by others. Furthermore, teachers said that the children with primarily friends of the opposite sex had lower academic performance and social skills, however faced less stereotyping in regards to gender roles and were better adjusted to their social atmosphere than children with few friends in general. Results from Kovacs, Parker, and Hoffman’s (1996) study show that children who have a best friend that is the opposite sex have poorer social functioning abilities. Yet, when children have friends primarily of the same sex, but some cross-sex friendships, they tend to be more well-adjusted and have stronger social skills. Additional studies conducted by Bell and Kalmijn oppose these negative observations behind cross-sex friendships in children, concluding that cross-sex friendships help children overcome communication barriers with the opposite sex, granting them an advantage with their social and communication skills later on. Their studies also observed that cross-sex friendships in children incorporate stronger senses of nurturance and intimacy that lack in same-sex friendships.\n\nCross-sex friendships in adolescence are very different than in childhood. In adolescence, cross-sex friendships are not only more accepted by peers, but also can increase an individual's social status among same-sex peers. A study on adolescents in 6th through 8th grade conducted by Malow-Iroff (2006) discovered that adolescents often use the creation of cross-sex friends as a road to popularity because children with both cross-sex and same-sex friends are more accepted by both sexes. Adolescents mainly look for cross-sex friends who are sociable, as they expect less from these friendships as they do from same-sex friends. Another study by Ami Flam Kuttler, Annette M. La Greca, and Mitchell J Prinstein surveyed 223 students from grades 10 through 12. The study concluded that although the number of cross-sex friendships in adolescents increase with age, both girls and boys felt a sense of stronger companionship and prosocial support with their friends of the same sex. However, adolescent boys claimed they felt as if their female companions provide support in regards to self-esteem more so than males. In addition to these findings, the study concluded that adolescents with predominately cross-sex friendships at these ages is perceived in relation to a lower social acceptance, rather than attaining to social or behavioral complications as observed in children through middle childhood.\n\nIn cross-sex friendships, Miller, Denes, Diaz, and Ranjit (2014) found that when men believe the friendship to be strictly platonic, they are more open to touching their friend. However, when they think intimacy may be increasing in the relationship, they are less like to desire casual touching. In contrast, the opposite was discovered to be true when it comes to women. Miller et al. (2014), found that women report being more uncomfortable if touched by their cross-sex friend in a public situation than men did. When there is touch between cross-sex friends, no matter how much intimacy is involved in the friendship, men tend to be more aroused by the touch than women are. The researchers hypothesize that the research results may have been confounded by a social desirability bias because women may be less likely to admit arousal from the touch of a cross-sex friend out of fear of being negatively labeled by others.\n\nAfifi and Faulkner (2000) investigated instances in which individuals had sexual interactions with their platonic cross-sex friends. 51% of their sample had sex with their friend when they had no intention of pursuing a romantic relationship with them, and 34% of participants noted having sexual relations with their friend on multiple occasions. Within Afifi & Faulkner’s study, of those who had sex with their friend, two-thirds stated that it improved their relationship and 56% stated that the relationship did not develop into something romantic.\n\nSexual interactions are recognized as a possible outcome of cross-sex friendships because societal expectations have conditioned males and females to view each other as potential sexual partners (Monsour et al. 56). In the face of these sexual overtones, some welcome the sexual tension in their cross-sex friendship while others note that the potential intimacy could destroy their relationship (Monsour et al. 57). With the sexual component, some friends are hesitant to enter into romantic relationships due to the anticipated disapproval of their social network of peers (Akbulut and Weger 109). Cross-sex friends often have overlapping social circles (Akbulut and Weger 109). Each member in the cross-sex friendship depends on their social network for support and other emotional needs (Akbulut and Weger 109). Thus, potentially falling out of touch with members of one’s own social network if the romantic relationship did not work out, is too costly for some cross-sex friends, even if they have engaged in sexual interactions (Akbulut and Weger 109).\n\nThe biological basis for cross-sex relationships cannot be found in ancient human history, because the way humans conducted their lives is different from the way current humans do now. Up until 10,000 years ago, or for over 99% of homo history, humans’ ancestors lived their lives in a nomadic fashion, foraging in groups structured by reproductive partners and offspring — not unlike the way families are organized current-day. Females began reproducing at an early age, and males practiced behaviors that showcased ownership over their female partners in order to safeguard them from other males. There have only been scattered ethnographic references to cross-sex friendships across cultures. Therefore, for much of ancient human history, cross-sex friendships were not common. Today, men and women interact in non-romantic, supportive ways in all types of contexts: work, sports, education, and hobbies, yet these unions are not based on sexual intentions. Evolved mating strategies were mentioned earlier and can be dovetailed with this biological history.\n\nParticipants in cross-sex friendships face many challenges, including learning how to navigate the particular type of friendship. The four types of cross-sex friendship as defined by Guerrero and Chavez (2005) referenced earlier are: strictly platonic, mutual romance, desires romance, and rejects romance. In addition, O’Meara (1989) originally stated that the four essential challenges cross-sex friends face are: 1) determining the type of emotional bond experienced in the relationship, 2) confronting the issue of sexuality, 3) dealing with the issue of relationship equality within a cultural context of gender inequality, and 4) the challenge of public relationships — presenting the relationship as authentic to relevant audiences. Schnoonover (2014) built research upon O’Meara’s audience challenge and found that members of Guerrero and Chavez’s (2005) different friendship types may experience challenges differently. For example, for “mutual romance” couples, members may be approaching the preliminary romantic stage of the relationship and if their romantic feelings feed into their behaviors toward each other, then they will be the most likely to be mistaken for a romantic couple. In contrast, “strictly platonic” friends should be the least likely the prompt the audience challenge. “Desires romance” and “rejects romance” couples may also be subject to the audience challenge — if observers of the friendship see the member acting in a romantic manner or admitting romantic intent, the observers might be more likely to regard the cross-sex friendship as a growing romantic relationship more so than a friendship.\n\nAnother controversial question surrounding cross-sex friendships that is often raised is - after two romantic partners end their relationship — or more colloquially, “break up” — can they still be platonic friends? Kenny and Schneider (2000) found three major conclusions about cross-sex friendship with a romantic history. First, rebranding a discontinued romantic relationship as a friendship is common in modern American culture. Second, there are particular predictors of whether a friendship will occur after romance. One critical factor is whether there was a platonic friendship before the romantic relationship existed. Because the partners knew how to navigate friendship with each other before romance, they were more likely to be friends afterwards. Third, the atmosphere in which the breakup occurred determined the likelihood of a post-friendship. Kenny and Schneider (2000) cited evidence noting that a more significant indicator of an upcoming friendship is the communication in which the breakup occurred, not the individual who first initiated the breakup.\n\nWhen looking at how men and women’s same sex relationships work, men tend to talk about more of their problems and open up more with women, rather than their other male friendships which tends to facilitate a bit of a gray area of what is expected when a man and a women are friends. Cross-sex friendship can exist after marriage when the married couple transition out of the passionate phase. Original feelings while dating are feelings of passion and what many describe as love, however as the relationship progresses through the years and into marriage, studies have found these feelings to be diminished and transition into more of a friendship. This is a topic of controversy as some argue it cannot be labeled as a cross sex “friendship” but rather a romantic relationship, however a study by Alan Booth and Elaine Hess (1974) dictates that almost all cross sex friendships can have some sexual/romantic influence, however it does not discount the friendship. \nThe “friend zone” has also focused on the argument that two people of opposite sexes can never be friends, and many saying that no friendship can occur after one party has made it evident that they have romantic feelings for the other. This coincides with questions on if the parties involved can have had or currently have romantic feelings for one another, or if a friendship must be based on solely feelings of platonic friendship for the duration of the friendship. The definition of a cross-sex friendship that J. Donald O'Meara (1989) gives is a relationship between a man and a woman that is not primarily focused on romance, but is not always void of romantic feelings, meaning that once one party had been in the “friend zone” as long as the relationship is primarily aimed towards a friendship, it is still a cross-sex friendship.\n\nResearchers in child development psychology, more specifically a study done by Donna M. Kovacs, Jeffrey G. Parker and Lois W. Hoffman (1996) looked into children’s cross sex friendships, and found an absence of these types of friendships at younger ages. This raised cause for concern within the study as the researchers discussed how this could be due to a greater separation of genders at younger ages, which can reinforce societal defined gender roles, and prevent these types of friendships, which can be beneficial to development from occurring.\n\n"}
{"id": "52737878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52737878", "title": "Cura (software)", "text": "Cura (software)\n\nCura is an open source 3D printer slicing application. It was created by David Braam who was later employed by Ultimaker, a 3D printer manufacturing company, to maintain the software. Cura is available under LGPLv3 license. Cura was initially released under the open source Affero General Public License version 3, but on 28 September 2017 the license was changed to LGPLv3. This change allowed for more integration with third-party CAD applications. Development is hosted on GitHub. Ultimaker Cura is used by over one million users worldwide and it is the preferred 3D printing software for Ultimaker 3D printers, but it can be used with other printers as well.\n\nUltimaker Cura works by slicing the user’s model file into layers and generating a printer-specific g-code. Once finished, the g-code can be sent to the printer for the manufacturing the physical object.\n\nThe open source software is compatible with most desktop 3D printers can work with files in the most common 3D formats such as STL, OBJ, X3D, 3MF as well as image file formats such as BMP, GIF, JPG, and PNG.\n\n7-Jun-2016 Ultimaker announced the new Cura major release 2.1.2, superseding the previous 15.04.6 version (note the non-sequentiality in the major version numbers).\n\nSept 2016 Version 2.3 was a major release. It includes new printing profiles, slicing features, as well as increasing speed. It also supported the dual extrusion possible with the Ultimaker 3 model\n\n17-Oct-2017 The current major version, Version 3.0 updated the user interface and allowed for CAD integration. This was the first version with plugin support.\n\nNov 2017 - Cura Connect was released to enable users to control, monitor, and configure a group of network-enabled 3D printers from a single interface.\n\nOctober 2018 - Beginning with version 3.5, all files are saved in the 3MF format for improved compatibility with other 3D software. Hotkeys were introduced as well as a searchable profile guide. \n\nNov 2018 - Version 3.6 introduced material profile support for materials made by major manufacturers such as BASF, DuPont, Clariant, and other members of the Materials Alliance Program consortium. \n\nNote: starting with Cura version 3.1, USB connected printers are supported. If you have a USB only printer or wish to use USB connectivity, Cura 3.1 or later must be used.\n\nRelease 3.0 introduced plugin capability. Users can develop their own plugins or use plugins commercially available. Plugins simplify workflow for users by allowing them to quickly perform tasks like opening a file from a menu or exporting a file from an application.\n\nCurrent plugins include: SolidWorks, Siemens NX, HP 3D Scanning, MakePrintable.\n\nCura supports includes the following printers:\n\nCura can also be customised to support printers other than those listed above running a wide range of firmware such as Marlin, Repetier, Griffin, Mach3 and Makerbot. For example, UK-based CEL, manufacturer of the Robox 3d printer, uses Cura as underlying slicing core for its Automaker printing application.\n\nOn August 31, 2014 Cura was included in a review of 3D slicing software by Think3DPrint3D\n\nIn the summer of 2015, Ultimaker released Cura 2.0.\n\nOn May 29, 2017, PrinterChat recognized Cura as the preferred slicing software for use in classrooms or maker spaces based on price and user interface.\n\nIn November 2017, Forbes and 3ders.org noted the release of Cura Connect and the programs networking capabilities.\n\nOn January 1, 2018, All3DP named Cura one of the best 3D slicer software tools.\n\n"}
{"id": "41690748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41690748", "title": "Cynthia Willett", "text": "Cynthia Willett\n\nCynthia Willett is Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of Philosophy at Emory University, where she is also affiliated faculty with Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies and with the Psychoanalytic Studies Program. She has written influential books on intersectional feminism and founded Emory's Institute for the History of Philosophy. Willett was on the American Philosophical Association's Executive Board between 2008 and 2010, and was recently the co-director of the Society for Phenomenology and Existential Philosophy. She earned her Ph.D. in 1988 from Pennsylvania State University.\n\nAs an undergraduate at the University of Missouri at Columbia University (1974–1977) and at the University of Minnesota at Minneapolis (1977–1978), Willett studied political science. She then earned a master's degree in philosophy from the University of Toronto (1979–1980). From 1981 to 1982 she did graduate work at the University of Texas at Austin in philosophy and literature. She then moved to Pennsylvania State University to work toward a Ph.D. in philosophy, which she earned in 1988, with a dissertation titled \"Tropes of Orientation\" under the direction of Carl Vaught and Irene Harvey.\n\nAfter serving as an assistant professor of philosophy at Le Moyne College from 1988 to 1991, she moved to the University of Kansas (1991–1996) and then to Emory University, first as an assistant professor and then, beginning in 1998, as an associate professor. She was promoted to the rank of full professor in 2004 and received an endowed chair in 2016.\n\nWillett specializes in ethics, social and political philosophy, critical theory, and American social thought of the 19th and 20th centuries. She has researched and written about philosophy of music, literature, tragedy, comedy, and interspecies ethics.\n\nWillett's first authored book was \"Maternal Ethics and Other Slave Moralities\", published by Routledge in 1995. In 2001 Cornell University Press published her book, \"The Soul of Justice: Social Bonds and Racial Hubris.\" Her 2009 book \"Irony in the Age of Empire\" was praised for its novel perspective. Her most recent book, \"Interspecies Ethics\", was published by Columbia University Press, in August 2014.\n"}
{"id": "25868389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25868389", "title": "Didymos", "text": "Didymos\n\nDidymos (Greek: Δίδυμος) was an ancient Greek music theorist in the last century before the common era. He was a predecessor of Ptolemy at the library at Alexandria.\n\nWe know of his theory only indirectly from the works of Porphyry and Ptolemy. There one finds examples of his tetrachords as measured string lengths from which the following proportions can be calculated:\n\n\nLike Archytas he used a major third, but appears to have been the first to use it in the diatonic as sum of the large and small whole tones as for the proportions (10:9)•(9:8)=5:4 obtains.The difference of these whole tones is the so-called syntonic comma, also referred to as Didymos' comma\n"}
{"id": "20651606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20651606", "title": "Divided consciousness", "text": "Divided consciousness\n\nDivided consciousness is a term coined by Ernest Hilgard to define a psychological state in which one's consciousness is split into distinct components, possibly during hypnosis.\n\nThe theory of a division of consciousness was touched upon by Carl Jung in 1935 when he stated, \"The so-called unity of consciousness is an illusion... we like to think that we are one but we are not.\" Ernest Hilgard believed that hypnosis causes a split in awareness and a vivid form of everyday mind splits. Drawing themes from Pierre Janet, Hilgard viewed hypnosis from this perspective as a willingness to divide the main systems of consciousness into different sectors. He argued that this split in consciousness can not only help define the state of mind reached during hypnosis, but can also help to define a vast range of psychological issues such as multiple personality disorder.\n\nIn Hilgard's \"Divided Consciousness Reconsidered\", he offers a great many examples of \"dissociated\" human behavior. With regard to theory, he does state that it is useful to assign two modes of consciousness, a receptive mode and an active mode—that is, a bimodal consciousness. In other places he mentions the concept of \"coconsciousness\", wherein two or more states of consciousness may be equally receptive or active, as, for example, in some types of multiple personality.\n\nMany psychological studies assume a unity of consciousness. Doubt is cast on this assumption by psychophysical studies in normal subjects and those with blindsight showing the simultaneous dissociation of different modes of report of a sensation, and by clinical studies of anosognosic patients showing dissociations of awareness of their own states. These and other phenomena are interpreted to imply two kinds of division of consciousness: the separation of phenomenal experience from reflexive consciousness and the non-unity of reflexive consciousness. Reflexive consciousness is taken to be necessary for report and is associated with the self as the subject of experience and agent of report. Reflexive consciousness is operative only when we attend to our own states. When we are involved in the world reflexivity intervenes less and our consciousness is more unified.\n\nThe theory has been tried and tested and some tests have proven that the theory makes some legitimate predictions. Others, such as one performed on 169 undergraduate students, some of whom performed tasks in selective attention and divided attention conditions being correlated with scores on the Harvard Group Scale of Hypnotic Susceptibility refute Hilgard’s findings.\n\nNew trends in psychology and cognitive neuroscience suggest that applications of nonlinear dynamics, chaos and self-organization seem to be particularly important for research of some fundamental problems regarding mind-brain relationship. Relevant problems among others are formations of memories during alterations of mental states and nature of a barrier that divides mental states, and leads to the process called dissociation. This process is related to a formation of groups of neurons which often synchronize their firing patterns in a unique spatial manner. The central theme of this study is the relationship between level of moving and oscillating mental processes and their neurophysiological substrate. This presents a question about principles of organization of the conscious experience and how the experiences happen in the brain. Chaotic self-organization provides a unique theoretical and experimental tool for deeper understanding of dissociative phenomena and enables to study how dissociative phenomena can be linked to epileptiform discharges which are related to various forms of psychological and somatic manifestations. Organizing principles that constitute human consciousness and other mental phenomena from this point of view may be described by analysis and reconstruction of underlying dynamics of psychophysiological measures.\n\n"}
{"id": "694732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=694732", "title": "Dollo's law of irreversibility", "text": "Dollo's law of irreversibility\n\nDollo's law of irreversibility (also known as Dollo's law and Dollo's principle), proposed in 1893 by French-born Belgian paleontologist Louis Dollo states that, \"an organism never returns exactly to a former state, even if it finds itself placed in conditions of existence identical to those in which it has previously lived ... it always keeps some trace of the intermediate stages through which it has passed.\"\n\nThe statement is often misinterpreted as claiming that evolution is not reversible, or that lost structures and organs cannot reappear in the same form by any process of devolution. According to Richard Dawkins, the law is \"really just a statement about the statistical improbability of following exactly the same evolutionary trajectory twice (or, indeed, any particular trajectory), in either direction\".Stephen Jay Gould suggested that irreversibility forecloses certain evolutionary pathways once broad forms have emerged: \"[For example], once you adopt the ordinary body plan of a reptile, hundreds of options are forever closed, and future possibilities must unfold within the limits of inherited design.\"\n\nThis principle is classically applied to morphology, particularly of fossils, but may also be used to describe molecular events, such as individual mutations or gene losses.\n\nIn maximum parsimony, Dollo parsimony refers to a model whereby a character is gained only one time and can never be regained if it is lost. For example, the evolution and repeated loss of teeth in vertebrates could be well-modeled under Dollo parsimony, whereby teeth made from hydroxyapatite evolved only once at the origin of vertebrates, and were then lost multiple times, in birds, turtles, and seahorses, among others.\n\nThis also applies to molecular characters, such as losses or inactivation of individual genes themselves. The loss of gulonolactone oxidase, the final enzyme in the biosynthetic pathway of vitamin C, is responsible for the dietary requirement of vitamin C in humans, as well as many other animals.\n\nA 2009 study on the evolution of protein structure proposed a new mechanism for Dollo's law. It examined a hormone receptor that had evolved from an ancestral protein that was able to bind two hormones to a new protein that was specific for a single hormone. This change was produced by two amino acid substitutions, which prevent binding of the second hormone. However, several other changes subsequently occurred, which were selectively neutral as they did not affect hormone binding. When the authors tried to revert the protein back to its ancestral state by mutating the two \"binding residues\", they found the other changes had destabilised the ancestral state of the protein. They concluded that in order for this protein to evolve in reverse and regain its ability to bind two hormones, several independent neutral mutations would have to occur purely by chance with no selection pressure. As this is extremely unlikely, it may explain why evolution tends to run in one direction.\n\nAlthough the exact threshold for violations of Dollo's law is unclear, there are several case studies whose results dispute the validity of some interpretations. For example, many taxa of gastropods have reduced shells, and some have lost coiling of their shell altogether. In Stephen Jay Gould's interpretation of Dollo's law, it would not be possible to regain a coiled shell after the coiling has been lost. Nevertheless, a few genera in the slipper snail family (Calyptraeidae) may have changed their developmental timing (heterochrony) and regained a coiled shell from a limpet-like shell. Other proposed 'exceptions' include the wings of stick insects, the larval stages of salamanders, lost toes in lizards, lost lower teeth in frogs, clavicles in non-avian theropod dinosaurs, and neck, pectoral region, and upper limb musculature in primates, including the lineage leading to humans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52410126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52410126", "title": "Elizabeth Barnes", "text": "Elizabeth Barnes\n\nElizabeth Barnes is an American philosopher working in feminist philosophy, metaphysics, social philosophy and ethics. Barnes is a professor of philosophy at the Corcoran Department of Philosophy, University of Virginia.\n\nBarnes was born in Asheville, North Carolina, and was raised around Charlotte, North Carolina. Barnes holds a bachelor's degree from the Davidson College, where she graduated \"magna cum laude\", and a master's degree and PhD from the University of St Andrews, where she studied under Katherine Hawley and Daniel Nolan. After graduating from St Andrews, Barnes held posts in the philosophy department at the University of Leeds from 2006, before joining the faculty at Virginia in 2014. In 2012, she became editor-in-chief of the journal \"Philosophy Compass\".\n\nBarnes has published across various fields in philosophy, and edited a volume entitled \"Current Controversies in Metaphysics\", which was published with Routledge in 2015. In 2016, her monograph \"The Minority Body\" was published with Oxford University Press. In the book, Barnes challenges the view of disability common in analytic philosophy, arguing instead that it is primarily a social phenomenon. Disabled persons, she argues, are not intrinsically worse off in virtue of being disabled, even though disability can be, in a restricted sense, a harm.\n\nShe is married to the Scottish philosopher Ross Cameron; the pair met at St Andrews, and Cameron is also a professor at Virginia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "708258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708258", "title": "Exceptionalism", "text": "Exceptionalism\n\nExceptionalism is the perception or belief that a species, country, society, institution, movement, individual, or time period is \"exceptional\" (\"i.e.\", unusual or extraordinary). The term carries the implication that the referent is superior in some way, whether specified or not. Although the idea appears to have developed with respect to an era, today the term is particularly applied in national or regional contexts. Other uses include medical and genetic exceptionalism. \n\nThe German romantic philosopher-historians, especially Johann Gottfried Herder (1744–1803) and Johann Gottlieb Fichte (1762–1814), dwelt on the theme of uniqueness in the late 18th century. They de-emphasized the political state and instead emphasized the uniqueness of the \"Volk\", comprising the whole people, their languages and traditions. Each nation, considered as a cultural entity with its own distinctive history, possessed a \"national spirit\", or \"soul of the people\" (in German: \"Volksgeist\"). This idea had a strong influence in the growth of nationalism in 19th-century European lands—especially in ones ruled by élites from somewhere else.\n\nClaims of exceptionality have been made for many countries, including the United States, Australia, France, Germany, Greece, India, Pakistan, Imperial Japan, Iran, Israel, North Korea, South Africa, Spain, Britain, the USSR, the European Union, and Thailand. Historians have added many other cases, including historic empires such as China, the Ottoman Empire, ancient Rome, and ancient India, along with a wide range of minor kingdoms in history.\n\nBelief in exceptionalism can represent erroneous thought analogous to historicism in that it overemphasizes peculiarities in an analysis and ignores or downplays meaningful comparisons . A group may assert \"exceptionalism\" in order to exaggerate the appearance of difference, to invoke a wider latitude of action, and to avoid recognition of similarities that would reduce perceived justifications . This can be an example of special pleading, a form of spurious argumentation that ignores relevant bases for meaningful comparisons .\n\nJ. Bradford DeLong has used the term \"exceptionalism\" to describe the economic growth of post-World War II Western Europe.\n\nExceptionalism can represent an error analogous to historicism in assuming that only peculiarities are relevant to analysis, while overlooking meaningful comparisons. \"[W]hat is seemingly exceptional in one country may be found in other countries.\"\n\nIn ideologically-driven debates, a group may assert \"exceptionalism\", with or without the term, in order to exaggerate the appearance of difference, perhaps to create an atmosphere permissive of a wider latitude of action, and to avoid recognition of similarities that would reduce perceived justifications. If unwarranted, this represents an example of special pleading, a form of spurious argumentation that ignores relevant bases for meaningful comparison.\n\nThe term \"exceptionalism\" can imply criticism of a tendency to remain separate from others. For example, the reluctance of the United States government to join various international treaties is sometimes called \"exceptionalist\".\n\nUse of the term \"HIV exceptionalism\" implies that AIDS is a contagious disease that is or should be treated differently from other contagions or entails benefits not available to those suffering from other diseases.\n\nGenetic exceptionalism is a policy program that medicalizes genetic information. Like the exceptionalism surrounding HIV testing, genetic exceptionalism is based on the belief that the average person needs a licensed health professional for guidance and support through the discovery of information with health implications, even if this information is common knowledge, such as that the person has red hair, which is associated with a higher risk of sunburns and skin cancer. In countries with strong genetic exceptionalism laws, permission from a physician is necessary to obtain information about one's genes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "395477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=395477", "title": "Exercise physiology", "text": "Exercise physiology\n\nExercise physiology is the physiology of physical exercise. It is the study of the acute responses and chronic adaptations to exercise.\n\nUnderstanding the effect of exercise involves studying specific changes in muscular, cardiovascular, and neurohumoral systems that lead to changes in functional capacity and strength due to endurance training or strength training. The effect of training on the body has been defined as the reaction to the adaptive responses of the body arising from exercise or as \"an elevation of metabolism produced by exercise\".\n\nExercise physiologists study the effect of exercise on pathology, and the mechanisms by which exercise can reduce or reverse disease progression.\n\n\"See also:\" Exercise § History\n\nBritish physiologist Archibald Hill introduced the concepts of maximal oxygen uptake and oxygen debt in 1922. Hill and German physician Otto Meyerhof shared the 1922 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their independent work related to muscle energy metabolism. Building on this work, scientists began measuring oxygen consumption during exercise. Notable contributions were made by Henry Taylor at the University of Minnesota, Scandinavian scientists Per-Olof Åstrand and Bengt Saltin in the 1950s and 60s, the Harvard Fatigue Laboratory, German universities, and the Copenhagen Muscle Research Centre among others.\n\nHumans have a high capacity to expend energy for many hours during sustained exertion. For example, one individual cycling at a speed of through over 50 consecutive days expended a total of 1,145 MJ (273,850 kcal; 273,850 dieter calories) with an average power output of 182.5 W.\n\nSkeletal muscle burns 90 mg (0.5 mmol) of glucose each minute during continuous activity (such as when repetitively extending the human knee), generating ≈24 W of mechanical energy, and since muscle energy conversion is only 22–26% efficient, ≈76 W of heat energy. Resting skeletal muscle has a basal metabolic rate (resting energy consumption) of 0.63 W/kg making a 160 fold difference between the energy consumption of inactive and active muscles. For short duration muscular exertion, energy expenditure can be far greater: an adult human male when jumping up from a squat can mechanically generate 314 W/kg. Such rapid movement can generate twice this amount in nonhuman animals such as bonobos, and in some small lizards.\n\nThis energy expenditure is very large compared to the basal resting metabolic rate of the adult human body. This rate varies somewhat with size, gender and age but is typically between 45 W and 85 W.\n\nEnergy needed to perform short lasting, high intensity bursts of activity is derived from anaerobic metabolism within the cytosol of muscle cells, as opposed to aerobic respiration which utilizes oxygen, is sustainable, and occurs in the mitochondria. The quick energy sources consist of the phosphocreatine (PCr) system, fast glycolysis, and adenylate kinase. All of these systems re-synthesize adenosine triphosphate (ATP), which is the universal energy source in all cells. The most rapid source, but the most readily depleted of the above sources is the PCr system which utilizes the enzyme creatine kinase. This enzyme catalyzes a reaction that combines phosphocreatine and adenosine diphosphate (ADP) into ATP and creatine. This resource is short lasting because oxygen is required for the resynthesis of phosphocreatine via mitochondrial creatine kinase. Therefore, under anaerobic conditions, this substrate is finite and only lasts between approximately 10 to 30 seconds of high intensity work. Fast glycolysis, however, can function for approximately 2 minutes prior to fatigue, and predominately uses intracellular glycogen as a substrate. Glycogen is broken down rapidly via glycogen phosphorylase into individual glucose units during intense exercise. Glucose is then oxidized to pyruvate and under anaerobic condition is reduced to lactic acid. This reaction oxidizes NADH to NAD, thereby releasing a hydrogen ion, promoting acidosis. For this reason, fast glycolysis can not be sustained for long periods of time. Lastly, adenylate kinase catalyzes a reaction by which 2 ADP are combined to form ATP and adenosine monophosphate (AMP). This reaction takes place during low energy situations such as extreme exercise or conditions of hypoxia, but is not a significant source of energy. The creation of AMP resulting from this reaction stimulates AMP-activated protein kinase (AMP kinase) which is the energy sensor of the cell. After sensing low energy conditions, AMP kinase stimulates various other intracellular enzymes geared towards increasing energy supply and decreasing all anabolic, or energy requiring, cell functions.\n\nPlasma glucose is said to be maintained when there is an equal rate of glucose appearance (entry into the blood) and glucose disposal (removal from the blood). In the healthy individual, the rates of appearance and disposal are essentially equal during exercise of moderate intensity and duration; however, prolonged exercise or sufficiently intense exercise can result in an imbalance leaning towards a higher rate of disposal than appearance, at which point glucose levels fall producing the onset of fatigue. Rate of glucose appearance is dictated by the amount of glucose being absorbed at the gut as well as liver (hepatic) glucose output. Although glucose absorption from the gut is not typically a source of glucose appearance during exercise, the liver is capable of catabolizing stored glycogen (glycogenolysis) as well as synthesizing new glucose from specific reduced carbon molecules (glycerol, pyruvate, and lactate) in a process called gluconeogenesis. The ability of the liver to release glucose into the blood from glycogenolysis is unique, since skeletal muscle, the other major glycogen reservoir, is incapable of doing so. Unlike skeletal muscle, liver cells contain the enzyme glycogen phosphatase, which removes a phosphate group from glucose-6-P to release free glucose. In order for glucose to exit a cell membrane, the removal of this phosphate group is essential. Although gluconeogenesis is an important component of hepatic glucose output, it alone can not sustain exercise. For this reason, when glycogen stores are depleted during exercise, glucose levels fall and fatigue sets in. Glucose disposal, the other side of the equation, is controlled by uptake of glucose at the working skeletal muscles. During exercise, despite decreased insulin concentrations, muscle increases GLUT4 translocation of and glucose uptake. The mechanism for increased GLUT4 translocation is an area of ongoing research.\n\nglucose control:\nAs mentioned above, insulin secretion is reduced during exercise, and does not play a major role in maintaining normal blood glucose concentration during exercise, but its counter-regulatory hormones appear in increasing concentrations. Principle among these are glucagon, epinephrine, and growth hormone. All of these hormones stimulate liver (hepatic) glucose output, among other functions. For instance, both epinephrine and growth hormone also stimulate adipocyte lipase, which increases non-esterified fatty acid (NEFA) release. By oxidizing fatty acids, this spares glucose utilization and helps to maintain blood sugar level during exercise.\n\nExercise for diabetes:\nExercise is a particularly potent tool for glucose control in those who have diabetes mellitus. In a situation of elevated blood glucose (hyperglycemia), moderate exercise can induce greater glucose disposal than appearance, thereby decreasing total plasma glucose concentrations. As stated above, the mechanism for this glucose disposal is independent of insulin, which makes it particularly well-suited for people with diabetes. In addition, there appears to be an increase in sensitivity to insulin for approximately 12–24 hours post-exercise. This is particularly useful for those who have type II diabetes and are producing sufficient insulin but demonstrate peripheral resistance to insulin signaling. However, during extreme hyperglycemic episodes, people with diabetes should avoid exercise due to potential complications associated with ketoacidosis. Exercise could exacerbate ketoacidosis by increasing ketone synthesis in response to increased circulating NEFA's.\n\nType II diabetes is also intricately linked to obesity, and there may be a connection between type II diabetes and how fat is stored within pancreatic, muscle, and liver cells. Likely due to this connection, weight loss from both exercise and diet tends to increase insulin sensitivity in the majority of people. In some people, this effect can be particularly potent and can result in normal glucose control. Although nobody is technically cured of diabetes, individuals can live normal lives without the fear of diabetic complications; however, regain of weight would assuredly result in diabetes signs and symptoms.\n\nVigorous physical activity (such as exercise or hard labor) increases the body's demand for oxygen. The first-line physiologic response to this demand is an increase in heart rate, breathing rate, and depth of breathing.\n\nOxygen consumption (VO) during exercise is best described by the Fick Equation: VO=Q x (a-vOdiff), which states that the amount of oxygen consumed is equal to cardiac output (Q) multiplied by the difference between arterial and venous oxygen concentrations. More simply put, oxygen consumption is dictated by the quantity of blood distributed by the heart as well as the working muscle's ability to take up the oxygen within that blood; however, this is a bit of an oversimplification. Although cardiac output is thought to be the limiting factor of this relationship in healthy individuals, it is not the only determinant of VO2 max. That is, factors such as the ability of the lung to oxygenate the blood must also be considered. Various pathologies and anomalies cause conditions such as diffusion limitation, ventilation/perfusion mismatch, and pulmonary shunts that can limit oxygenation of the blood and therefore oxygen distribution. In addition, the oxygen carrying capacity of the blood is also an important determinant of the equation. Oxygen carrying capacity is often the target of exercise (ergogenic aids) aids used in endurance sports to increase the volume percentage of red blood cells (hematocrit), such as through blood doping or the use of erythropoietin (EPO). Furthermore, peripheral oxygen uptake is reliant on a rerouting of blood flow from relatively inactive viscera to the working skeletal muscles, and within the skeletal muscle, capillary to muscle fiber ratio influences oxygen extraction.\n\nDehydration refers both to hypohydration (dehydration induced prior to exercise) and to exercise-induced dehydration (dehydration that develops during exercise). The latter reduces aerobic endurance performance and results in increased body temperature, heart rate, perceived exertion, and possibly increased reliance on carbohydrate as a fuel source. Although the negative effects of exercise-induced dehydration on exercise performance were clearly demonstrated in the 1940s, athletes continued to believe for years thereafter that fluid intake was not beneficial. More recently, negative effects on performance have been demonstrated with modest (<2%) dehydration, and these effects are exacerbated when the exercise is performed in a hot environment. The effects of hypohydration may vary, depending on whether it is induced through diuretics or sauna exposure, which substantially reduce plasma volume, or prior exercise, which has much less impact on plasma volume. Hypohydration reduces aerobic endurance, but its effects on muscle strength and endurance are not consistent and require further study. Intense prolonged exercise produces metabolic waste heat, and this is removed by sweat-based thermoregulation. A male marathon runner loses each hour around 0.83 L in cool weather and 1.2 L in warm (losses in females are about 68 to 73% lower). People doing heavy exercise may lose two and half times as much fluid in sweat as urine. This can have profound physiological effects. Cycling for 2 hours in the heat (35 °C) with minimal fluid intake causes body mass decline by 3 to 5%, blood volume likewise by 3 to 6%, body temperature to rise constantly, and in comparison with proper fluid intake, higher heart rates, lower stroke volumes and cardiac outputs, reduced skin blood flow, and higher systemic vascular resistance. These effects are largely eliminated by replacing 50 to 80% of the fluid lost in sweat.\n\n\nAt rest, the human brain receives 15% of total cardiac output, and uses 20% of the body's energy consumption. The brain is normally dependent for its high energy expenditure upon aerobic metabolism. The brain as a result is highly sensitive to failure of its oxygen supply with loss of consciousness occurring within six to seven seconds, with its EEG going flat in 23 seconds. If it affected the oxygen and glucose supply to the brain, the metabolic demands of exercise could therefore quickly disrupt its functioning.\n\nProtecting the brain from even minor disruption is important since exercise depends upon motor control, and particularly, because humans are bipeds, the motor control needed for keeping balance. Indeed, for this reason, brain energy consumption is increased during intense physical exercise due to the demands in the motor cognition needed to control the body.\n\nCerebral autoregulation usually ensures the brain has priority to cardiac output, though this is impaired slightly by exhaustive exercise. During submaximal exercise, cardiac output increases and cerebral blood flow increases beyond the brain’s oxygen needs. However, this is not the case for continuous maximal exertion: \"Maximal exercise is, despite the increase in capillary oxygenation [in the brain], associated with a reduced mitochondrial O content during whole body exercise\" The autoregulation of the brain’s blood supply is impaired particularly in warm environments\n\nIn adults, exercise depletes the plasma glucose available to the brain: short intense exercise (35 min ergometer cycling) can reduce brain glucose uptake by 32%.\n\nAt rest, energy for the adult brain is normally provided by glucose but the brain has a compensatory capacity to replace some of this with lactate. Research suggests that this can be raised, when a person rests in a brain scanner, to about 17%, with a higher percentage of 25% occurring during hypoglycemia. During intense exercise, lactate has been estimated to provide a third of the brain’s energy needs. There is evidence that the brain might, however, in spite of these alternative sources of energy, still suffer an energy crisis since IL-6 (a sign of metabolic stress) is released during exercise from the brain.\n\nHumans use sweat thermoregulation for body heat removal, particularly to remove the heat produced during exercise. Moderate dehydration as a consequence of exercise and heat is reported to impair cognition. These impairments can start after body mass lost that is greater than 1%. Cognitive impairment, particularly due to heat and exercise is likely to be due to loss of integrity to the blood brain barrier. Hyperthermia also can lower cerebral blood flow, and raise brain temperature.\n\nResearchers once attributed fatigue to a build-up of lactic acid in muscles. However, this is no longer believed. Rather, lactate may stop muscle fatigue by keeping muscles fully responding to nerve signals. The available oxygen and energy supply, and disturbances of muscle ion homeostasis are the main factor determining exercise performance, at least during brief very intense exercise.\n\nEach muscle contraction involves an action potential that activates voltage sensors, and so releases Ca ions from the muscle fibre’s sarcoplasmic reticulum. The action potentials that cause this require also ion changes: Na influxes during the depolarization phase and K effluxes for the repolarization phase. Cl ions also diffuse into the sarcoplasm to aid the repolarization phase. During intense muscle contraction, the ion pumps that maintain homeostasis of these ions are inactivated and this (with other ion related disruption) causes ionic disturbances. This causes cellular membrane depolarization, inexcitability, and so muscle weakness. Ca leakage from type 1 ryanodine receptor) channels has also been identified with fatigue.\n\nAfter intense prolonged exercise, there can be a collapse in body homeostasis. Some famous examples include:\n\nTim Noakes, based on an earlier idea by the 1922 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winner Archibald Hill has proposed the existence of a central governor. In this, the brain continuously adjusts the power output by muscles during exercise in regard to a safe level of exertion. These neural calculations factor in prior length of strenuous exercise, the planned duration of further exertion, and the present metabolic state of the body. This adjusts the number of activated skeletal muscle motor units, and is subjectively experienced as fatigue and exhaustion. The idea of a central governor rejects the earlier idea that fatigue is only caused by mechanical failure of the exercising muscles (\"peripheral fatigue\"). Instead, the brain models the metabolic limits of the body to ensure that whole body homeostasis is protected, in particular that the heart is guarded from hypoxia, and an emergency reserve is always maintained. The idea of the central governor has been questioned since ‘physiological catastrophes’ can and do occur suggesting athletes (such as Dorando Pietri, Jim Peters and Gabriela Andersen-Schiess) can over-ride the ‘‘central governor’.\n\nThe exercise fatigue has also been suggested to be effected by:\n\nProlonged exercise such as marathons can increase cardiac biomarkers such as troponin, B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP), and ischemia-modified (aka MI) albumin. This can be misinterpreted by medical personnel as signs of myocardial infarction, or cardiac dysfunction. In these clinical conditions, such cardiac biomarkers are produced by irreversible injury of muscles. In contrast, the processes that create them after strenuous exertion in endurance sports are reversible, with their levels returning to normal within 24-hours (further research, however, is still needed).\n\nHumans are specifically adapted to engage in prolonged strenuous muscular activity (such as efficient long distance bipedal running). This capacity for endurance running evolved to allow the running down of game animals by persistent slow but constant chase over many hours.\n\nCentral to the success of this is the ability of the human body, unlike that of the animals they hunt, to effectively remove muscle heat waste. In most animals, this is stored by allowing a temporary increase in body temperature. This allows them to escape from animals that quickly speed after them for a short duration (the way nearly all predators catch their prey). Humans, unlike other animals that catch prey, remove heat with a specialized thermoregulation based on sweat evaporation. One gram of sweat can remove 2,598 J of heat energy. Another mechanism is increased skin blood flow during exercise that allows for greater convective heat loss that is aided by our upright posture. This skin based cooling has resulted in humans acquiring an increased number of sweat glands, combined with a lack of body fur that would otherwise stop air circulation and efficient evaporation. Because humans can remove exercise heat, they can avoid the fatigue from heat exhaustion that affects animals chased in a persistent manner, and so eventually catch them.\n\nRodents have been specifically bred for exercise behavior or performance in several different studies. For example, laboratory rats have been bred for high or low performance on a motorized treadmill with electrical stimulation as motivation. The high-performance line of rats also exhibits increased voluntary wheel-running behavior as compared with the low-capacity line. In an experimental evolution approach, four replicate lines of laboratory mice have been bred for high levels of voluntary exercise on wheels, while four additional control lines are maintained by breeding without regard to the amount of wheel running. These selected lines of mice also show increased endurance capacity in tests of forced endurance capacity on a motorized treadmill. However, in neither selection experiment have the precise causes of fatigue during either forced or voluntary exercise been determined.\n\nPhysical exercise may cause pain both as an immediate effect that may result from stimulation of free nerve endings by low pH, as well as a delayed onset muscle soreness. The delayed soreness is fundamentally the result of ruptures within the muscle, although apparently not involving the rupture of whole muscle fibers.\n\nMuscle pain can range from a mild soreness to a debilitating injury depending on intensity of exercise, level of training, and other factors.\n\nAccreditation programs exist with professional bodies in most developed countries, ensuring the quality and consistency of education. In Canada, one may obtain the professional certification title – Certified Exercise Physiologist for those working with clients (both clinical and non clinical) in the health and fitness industry. An exercise physiologist's area of study may include but is not limited to biochemistry, bioenergetics, cardiopulmonary function, hematology, biomechanics, skeletal muscle physiology, neuroendocrine function, and central and peripheral nervous system function. Furthermore, exercise physiologists range from basic scientists, to clinical researchers, to clinicians, to sports trainers.\n\nColleges and universities offer exercise physiology as a program of study on various different levels, including undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral programs. The basis of Exercise Physiology as a major is to prepare students for a career in field of health sciences. A program that focuses on the scientific study of the physiological processes involved in physical or motor activity, including sensorimotor interactions, response mechanisms, and the effects of injury, disease, and disability. Includes instruction in muscular and skeletal anatomy; molecular and cellular basis of muscle contraction; fuel utilization; neurophysiology of motor mechanics; systemic physiological responses (respiration, blood flow, endocrine secretions, and others); fatigue and exhaustion; muscle and body training; physiology of specific exercises and activities; physiology of injury; and the effects of disabilities and disease. Careers available with a degree in Exercise Physiology can include: non-clinical, client-based work; strength and conditioning specialists; cardiopulmonary treatment; and clinical-based research.\n\nIn order to gauge the multiple areas of study, students are taught processes in which to follow on a client-based level. Practical and lecture teachings are instructed in the classroom and in a laboratory setting. These include:\n\n\nThe curriculum for exercise physiology includes biology, chemistry, and applied sciences. The purpose of the classes selected for this major is to have a proficient understanding of human anatomy, human physiology, and exercise physiology. Includes instruction in muscular and skeletal anatomy; molecular and cellular basis of muscle contraction; fuel utilization; neurophysiology of motor mechanics; systemic physiological responses (respiration, blood flow, endocrine secretions, and others); fatigue and exhaustion; muscle and body training; physiology of specific exercises and activities; physiology of injury; and the effects of disabilities and disease. Not only is a full class schedule needed to complete a degree in Exercise Physiology, but a minimum amount of practicum experience is required and internships are recommended.\n\n"}
{"id": "1061874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1061874", "title": "Florian Znaniecki", "text": "Florian Znaniecki\n\nFlorian Witold Znaniecki (15 January 1882 – 23 March 1958) was a Polish philosopher and sociologist who taught and wrote in Poland and in the United States. Over the course of his work he shifted his focus from philosophy to sociology. He remains a major figure in the history of Polish and American sociology; the founder of Polish academic sociology, and of an entire school of thought in sociology. He won international renown as co-author, with William I. Thomas, of the study, \"The Polish Peasant in Europe and America\" (1918–20), which is considered the foundation of modern empirical sociology. He also made major contributions to sociological theory, introducing terms such as humanistic coefficient and culturalism.\n\nIn Poland, he established the first Polish department of sociology at Adam Mickiewicz University where he worked from 1920 to 1939. His career in the US begun at the University of Chicago (1917 to 1919) and continued at Columbia University (1932 to 1934 and 1939 to 1940) and at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (1942 to 1950). He was the 44th President of the American Sociological Association (for the year 1954).\n\nFlorian Znaniecki was born on 15 January 1882 at Świątniki, Congress Poland, a state controlled by the Russian Empire to Leon Znaniecki and Amelia, née Holtz He received early schooling from tutors, then attended secondary schools at Warsaw and Częstochowa. While in secondary school, he was a member of an underground study group, specializing in history, literature and philosophy. His secondary-school grades were average at best, and he had to repeat a year of school; this was largely due to his extracurricular interest in Polish-language study, which was banned under the Russified school program. As a youth, he wrote some poetry, including a drama, \"Cheops\" (1903). A poem of his, \"Do Prometeusza\" (\"To Prometheus\"), was included in a 1900 anthology; however, neither he in later life, nor literary critics, judged his poetry outstanding.\n\nHe entered the Imperial University of Warsaw in 1902, but was soon expelled after taking part in protests against the Russian administration's curtailment of student rights. Threatened with conscription into the Imperial Russian Army, he chose to emigrate and in early 1904 left Warsaw for Switzerland.\n\nDuring that period, he was briefly an editor at a French-language literary magazine, \"Nice Illustrée\" (late 1904 – early 1905); faked his own death; briefly served in the French Foreign Legion in Algeria; and worked at a flea market, on a farm, in a traveling circus, and as a librarian at the Polish Museum in Rapperswil, Switzerland.\n\nIn Switzerland he soon resumed his university studies, first at the University of Geneva (1905–07), then at the University of Zurich (1907–08), eventually transferring to the Sorbonne in Paris, France (1908–09), where he attended lectures by sociologist Émile Durkheim. In 1909, after the death of his supervisor Frédéric Rauh, he returned to Poland, where in 1910 he obtained his Ph.D. degree at Jagiellonian University, in Kraków, under a new supervisor, Maurycy Straszewski.\n\nThat year he also joined the Polish Psychological Society (\"Polskie Towarzystwo Psychologiczne\"), in which he would be highly active over the next few years, becoming its vice president in 1913–14. Much of his early academic work at that time could be classified as philosophy. In 1909, aged 27, he published his first academic paper, \"Etyka filozoficzna i nauka o wartościach moralnych\" (\"Philosophical Ethics and the Science of Moral Values\"); a year later he published \"Zagadnienie wartości w filozofii\" (\"The Question of Values in Philosophy\"), based on his doctoral dissertation, and a paper, \"Myśl i rzeczywistosc\" (\"Mind and Reality\"). In 1912 he published a new book, \"Humanizm i Poznanie\" (\"Humanism and Knowledge\"), and a paper, \"Elementy rzeczywistości praktycznej\" (\"Elements of Practical Reality\"). A year later, he published an annotated translation of Henri Bergson's \"Creative Evolution\" and a paper, \"Znaczenie rozwoju świata i człowieka\" (\"The Meaning of World and Human Development\"). The year 1914 saw the publication of his papers, \"Formy i zasady twórczości moralnej\" (\"Forms and Principles of Moral Creativity\") and \"Zasada względności jako podstawa filizofii\" (\"The Principle of Relativity as a Foundation of Philosophy\"). His works, published in Polish, were well received by the Polish scholarly community and intelligentsia.\n\nDue to his past political activism, he was unable to secure a post at a major university. From 1912 to 1914 he lectured at a novel women's institution of higher education, the Advanced Pedagogical Courses for Women (\"Wyższe Kursy Pedagogiczne dla Kobiet\"). During his studies, he had worked at several European institutions dealing with Polish immigrants; he would build on his experiences by becoming involved with the Warsaw-based Society for the Welfare of Émigrés (\"Towarzystwo Opieki nad Wychodźcami\"), where he worked in 1910–14. By 1911 he was the Society's director and (1911–12) editor of its journal, \"Wychodźca Polski\" (\"The Polish Émigré\"). Znaniecki became an expert on Polish migration, in 1914 authoring for the government a 500-page report, \"Wychodźtwo Sezonowe\" (\"Seasonal Migration\").\n\nA year earlier, in 1913, Znaniecki had met William I. Thomas, an American sociologist who had come to Poland in connection with his research on Polish immigrants in the United States. Thomas and Znaniecki had begun to collaborate, and soon Thomas invited Znaniecki to come to Chicago to continue work with him in the United States. In July 1914, just on the eve of World War I, Znaniecki left Poland to work with Thomas as a research assistant. From 1917 to 1919 Znaniecki also lectured in sociology at the University of Chicago.\n\nTheir work culminated in co-authoring of \"The Polish Peasant in Europe and America\" (1918–20), considered a sociology classic. It was his collaboration with Thomas that marked the transition in Znaniecki's career from philosopher to sociologist. Znaniecki stayed with Thomas in Chicago until mid-1919, when he moved to New York, following Thomas, who had lost his job at Chicago due to a spurious scandal.\n\nThat year Znaniecki published a new book, still mostly philosophical rather than sociological, \"Cultural Reality\". Published in English, it was a synthesis of his philosophical thought. In New York, Thomas and Znaniecki carried on research for the Carnegie Corporation on the process of immigrant Americanization. Znaniecki contributed to Thomas' book, \"Old World Traits Transplanted\", and published an anonymous solicited article on that topic to the February 1920 \"Atlantic Monthly\".\n\nPoland had regained independence following World War I, in 1918. In 1919 Znaniecki contacted the newly founded Ministry of Religion and Education, offering to return to Poland if the Ministry could help him secure a chair at a Polish university. He proposed creating a novel Institute of Sociology, but bureaucracy and communication delays resulted in that idea being shelved, and he was offered a philosophy professorship at the newly organized Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań.\n\nIn 1920 Znaniecki returned to the newly established Second Polish Republic, where at Poznań University he soon became Poland's first chair in sociology. He accomplished this by renaming the department, originally \"Third Philosophical Department\", to \"Department of Sociology and Cultural Philosophy\", doing the same for his chair, and establishing a Sociological Seminary. That same year he also founded the Polish Institute of Sociology (\"Polski Instutut Socjologiczny\"), the fifth-oldest sociological institute in Europe.\n\nIn 1927 his department was officially renamed to \"department of sociology\", and in 1930 the department gained authorization to issue degrees in sociology. In 1930 the Polish Institute of Sociology began publishing the first Polish sociological journal, \"Przegląd Socjologiczny\" (The Sociological Review), with Znaniecki its chief editor from 1930 to 1939. That year the Institute organized Poland's first academic sociologists' conference. Due to his role as founder of so many of its building blocks, Znaniecki is considered as one of the fathers of sociology in Poland.\n\nKeeping in touch with American sociologists, Znaniecki lectured as a visiting professor at Columbia University in New York in 1932–34 and during the summer of 1939. That summer ended the Polish stage of his career, as the German invasion of Poland and the start of World War II prevented his return to Poland. He was already aboard a ship bound for Poland when his travel was cut short in the United Kingdom. He still briefly considered returning to Poland, where his wife and daughter remained; however, faced with the occupation of Poland, he returned to the United States, where his family eventually joined him in 1940.\n\nWith help from American colleagues, Znaniecki obtained an extension of his appointment at Columbia University through mid-1940. He then moved to the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and in 1942 obtained American citizenship, allowing him to transition from a visiting to a regular professorship. He taught at the University of Illinois until his retirement, deciding not to return to the communist People's Republic of Poland, established in the aftermath of World War II (despite the offer of a chair at Poznań University). In 1950 he retired, becoming a professor emeritus.\n\nHe was 44th President of the American Sociological Association (for 1954). His presidential address, \"Basic Problems of Contemporary Sociology,\" was delivered on 8 September 1954 at the Association's annual meeting and was later published in the American Sociological Review.\n\nHe died on 23 March 1958 in Champaign, Illinois. The cause of death was arteriosclerosis. His funeral took place on 26 March, and he was buried at Roselawn Champaign Cemetery .\n\nIn 1906 Znaniecki married a fellow Polish student at the University of Geneva, Emilia Szwejkowska. They had a son, poet and writer Juliusz Znaniecki, born 1908. Znaniecki's wife Emilia died in 1915.\n\nNext year Znaniecki married Eileen Markley (1886–1976). They had one daughter, sociologist Helena Znaniecki Lopata, born 1925.\n\nPolish sociologist and historian of ideas Jerzy Szacki writes that Znaniecki's major contributions include: the founding of sociology in Poland; his work in empirical sociology; and his work in sociological theory. Szacki notes that Znaniecki sought to bridge a number of gaps: between empirical sociology and more theoretical approaches; between objectivity and subjectivity; between humanistic and naturalistic methodologies and viewpoints; and between American and European intellectual traditions.\n\nSzacki writes that, while Znaniecki's theoretical contributions were subsequently pushed into the background by Talcott Parsons' \"functionalism\", Znaniecki offered the most ambitious sociological theory known to America before Parsons.\n\nZnaniecki's most famous work remains \"The Polish Peasant in Europe and America\" (1918–20), co-authored with William I. Thomas. His other major works include \"Wstęp do socjologii\" (An Introduction to Sociology, 1922), \"The Method of Sociology\" (1934), \"Social Actions\" (1936), \"The Social Role of the Man of Knowledge\" (1940) and \"Cultural Sciences\" (1952).\n\nZnaniecki's contributions to empirical sociology began after, and were influenced by, his collaboration with William I. Thomas. \"The Polish Peasant in Europe and America\" (1918–20), a five-volume work which he wrote with Thomas, is considered a classic of empirical sociology. It is a study of Polish immigrants to America, based on personal documents. The work became a landmark study of Americanization — of how new immigrants to the United States \"become Americans\".\n\nThis work represents Znaniecki's most valued contribution to empirical sociology. Most of his other works focused on theory, the only other notable exception being \"Miasto w świadomości jego obywateli\" (The City in the Consciousness of its Citizens, 1931).\n\nA key element of Znaniecki's sociological theory is his view of sociology in particular, and of the social sciences in general, as a scientific field uniquely different from the natural sciences. Znaniecki defines sociology as a study of social actions. His recommended methodology was analytic induction: analysis of typical case studies, and generalization from them.\n\nZnaniecki's theories form a major part of sociology's action theory, and his work is a major part of the foundation of humanistic sociology. Another term connected with Znaniecki's theories is \"systematic sociology\" (\"socjologia systematyczna\"). He sought to create a grand sociological theory, one that would bridge the gap between empirical sociology and more theoretical approaches.\n\nZnaniecki criticized the widespread definition of sociology as the study of society. In Znaniecki's culturalist perspective, sociology is a study of culture (though it is not \"the\" study of culture, as Znaniecki recognized that other social sciences also study culture). His definition of sociology has been described as that of \"a cultural science whose function is to study systems of social interaction based upon patterns of values and norms of behaviour, through the use of the humanistic coefficient\", or more simply, \"the investigation of organized, interdependent interaction among human beings.\" The part of the culture that sociology focused on was that of social relation or interaction.\n\nZnaniecki saw culture as a field separate from nature, but also from individuals' perceptions. The essence of culture is socially constructed objects. He was one of the first sociologists to begin analyzing personal documents such as letters, autobiographies, diaries, and the like. He considered the analysis of such documents an important part of the humanistic-coefficient method.\n\nZnaniecki saw sociology as an objective, inductive and generalizing science. According to Szacki, Znaniecki viewed sociology as a nomothetic science that should be able to use a methodology similar to that of the natural sciences (however, Znaniecki's daughter Helena Znaniecki Lopata, in her introduction to \"Social Relations and Social Roles\", contradicts Szacki, writing that, for Znaniecki, sociology was a science \"whose subject matter calls for a method different from that of the natural sciences.\"). In 1934 he formulated the principle of analytic induction, designed to identify universal propositions and causal laws. He contrasted it with enumerative research, which provided mere correlations and could not account for exceptions in statistical relationships. He was also critical of the statistical method, which he did not see as very useful.\n\nIn addition to the science of sociology, Znaniecki was also deeply interested in the larger field of the sociology of science. He analyzed the social roles of scientists, and the concept of a school of thought.\n\nAccording to Znaniecki, sociology can be divided into the study of four dynamic social systems: social action theory, social relation theory, social actors theory, and social groups theory. Znaniecki saw social actions as the foundation of a society, as they give rise to more complex social relations, and he saw this theory as the foundation of all the others. Unlike Max Weber, he did not believe that everything can be reduced to social actions; he was also quite skeptical of any insights coming from the science of psychology, which he held in low esteem.\n\nThe four major forms of cooperative interaction, or four social systems, in growing complexity, were:\n\nThe four-category division described above appeared in his 1934 book, \"The Method of Sociology\". By 1958 he had reformulated the division, and was speaking instead of social relations, social roles, social groups, and societies.\n\nZnaniecki coined the term \"humanistic coefficient\" for a method of social research by way of data analysis that emphasizes participants' perceptions of the experience being analyzed. The humanistic coefficient sees all social facts as being created by social actors and as being understandable only from their perspective. Thus the sociologist ought to study reality by trying to understand how others see the world, not (objectively) as an independent observer; in other words, the scientist needs to understand the subject's world. While some have criticized this approach as being too close to subjectivism, Znaniecki himself saw it as anti-subjectivist; he observed that social facts such as cultural systems can exist even if no one perceives their existence. He was also skeptical of any value coming from personal, subjective observations, arguing that such observations have value only if they can be objectively described. He argued that the difference between the natural and social sciences lies not in the difference between objective and subjective experiences, but in the subject being studied: for Znaniecki, the natural sciences studied things, and the social sciences studied cultural values.\n\nZnaniecki characterized the world as being caught within two contrary modes of reflection; idealism and realism. He proposed a third way, which he called \"culturalism\". His culturalism was one of the founding ideas of modern antipositivist and antinaturalist sociology. The term \"culturalism\" was introduced into English in his book, \"Cultural Reality\" (1919), and was translated into Polish as \"kulturalizm\"; previously Znaniecki had discussed the concept in Polish as \"humanism\" (\"humanizm\").\n\nZnaniecki's work also touched on many other areas of sociology, such as intergroup conflict, urban sociology, and rural sociology.\n\nZnaniecki's first academic works, of the 1910s, were more philosophical than sociological in nature; beginning in the 1920s, his works were primarily sociological. His \"Cultural Reality\" (1919) was a synthesis of his philosophical thought, but the simultaneous publication of his much more popular \"The Polish Peasant in Europe and America\" (1918–20) associated his name in academic circles primarily with sociology rather than with philosophy. His early works focused on analysis of culture and strongly criticized the principles of sociological naturalism. Szacki notes a puzzling gap in Znaniecki's research: while he was well-read in, and engaged with, most previous and current theories, he largely ignored the works of some notable sociologists of his time such as Max Weber, Vilfredo Pareto and Talcott Parsons. On the other hand, his works engaged closely with those of William I. Thomas, Georg Simmel, Robert E. Park, and Émile Durkheim.\n\nHis \"The Method of Sociology\" first introduced his concept of divisions within subfields of sociology. His most notable works included two books published in the same year (1952): \"Modern Nationalities\", and \"Cultural Sciences\". The former is an analysis of the evolution of national-culture societies, and the latter presents a theoretical study of the relation between sociology and other sciences. Znaniecki never finished his \"magnum opus\", \"Systematic Sociology\", which would eventually be collected and published posthumously in its unfinished but final form as \"Social Relations and Social Roles: The Unfinished Systematic Sociology\" (1965).\n\nRoughly half of Znaniecki's published works are in English; the rest, in Polish.\n\nIn English:\n\nIn Polish:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7151821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7151821", "title": "Garlandus Compotista", "text": "Garlandus Compotista\n\nGarlandus Compotista, also known as Garland the Computist, was an early medieval logician of the eleventh-century school of Liège. Little is known of his life; the \"Dialectica\" published under his name by L. M. de Rijk is now commonly attributed to Gerlandus of Besançon (early 12th century).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35060755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35060755", "title": "Hjernevask", "text": "Hjernevask\n\nHjernevask (\"Brainwash\") is a Norwegian documentary miniseries about science that aired on NRK1 in 2010. The series, consisting of seven episodes, was created and presented by the comedian and sociologist Harald Eia. \n\nThe series contrasted cultural determinist models of human behavior (also referred to as the Standard social science model) with nature-nurture interactionist perspectives. Experts interviewed for the series included Simon Baron-Cohen, Steven Pinker, Simon LeVay, David Buss, Glenn Wilson, and Anne Campbell. This ignited a wide public discussion on the subject of the nature versus nurture debate. The entire series has since been released online.\n\nEia and coproducer Ole Martin Ihle have named Steven Pinker's book \"The Blank Slate\" as an inspiration for the documentary series. The series was a huge success, and Eia was awarded the Fritt Ord Award for \"having precipitated one of the most heated debates on research in recent times\".\n\nThe producers have made the series available online. Episodes linked here have English subtitles:\n"}
{"id": "14908102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14908102", "title": "Humanistic capitalism", "text": "Humanistic capitalism\n\nHumanistic capitalism is a concept that seeks to marry humanism, specifically the safety and health needs of people and the environment, with an embrace of market forces and a market-based economy.\n\nMuhammad Yunus describes Humanistic Capitalism as a socially conscious business world where investors are content to recoup their investments but do not expect additional dividends. \nThe idea of humanistic capitalism is linked with the idea that fundamental changes must take place in economics today, as humanistic capitalism requires that there be a blending of the non-profit and for-profit sectors. If investors can accept the decrease in financial returns for those on a social level, humanistic capitalism will become a successful force in driving economic and social change. Philanthropy is a fundamental concept to humanistic capitalism. While the idea of humanistic capitalism is still growing, over “72% percent of social entrepreneurs say that raising money is a problem,” and fundraising is a major issue to social entrepreneurs, who rely on philanthropy for support and funding.\n\nThere are also many businesses today that already combine the needs of the environment with the needs of people and the environment. SustainAbility, a company established in 1987, defines their purpose as to “seek solutions to social and environmental challenges that deliver long term value,” and has worked on projects to “identify opportunities to innovate products and services with a reduced environmental footprint.” \n\nJEP Foundation promotes the philosophies of Humanistic Capitalism to create a kinder, gentler economic approach. The principles of Just Enough Profit (JEP) are used by companies to define what they stand for, how they treat their customers and employees, and how they serve humanity.\n\nIn Willis Harman's seminal paper \"Humanistic Capitalism: Another Alternative\" (Journal of Humanistic Psychology, Vol. 14, No. 1, Winter 1974) he writes \"...corporations [must] assume an active responsibility for creating a healthy society and a habitable planet—not as a gesture to improve corporate image or as a moralistically undertaken responsibility, but because it is the only reasonable long-run interpretation of \"good business.\" In the end, good business policy must become one with good social policy.\"\n\nIra Rohter, a professor in the Political Science Department at the University of Hawaii, promoted Humanistic Capitalism as a way to restore power to the people of Hawaii and their environment. He advocated that all growth be sustainable, self-reliant, and not only focused on profit, but the needs of people. Another key concept of humanistic capitalism, he added, is a democratic economy way based on “cooperation [and] openness” in order to meet the needs of Hawaii’s people and environment.\n"}
{"id": "871327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=871327", "title": "Infinite in All Directions", "text": "Infinite in All Directions\n\nInfinite In All Directions (1988) is a book on a wide range of subjects, including history, philosophy, research, technology, the origin of life and eschatology, by theoretical physicist Freeman Dyson. The book is based on the author's Gifford Lectures delivered in Aberdeen in 1985. \"Infinite in All Directions\" can roughly be summarized as a treatise on the universe and humanity's role and its responsibilities.\n"}
{"id": "4974325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4974325", "title": "International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World", "text": "International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly proclaimed the first decade of the 21st century and the third millennium, the years 2001 to 2010, as the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World. This followed resolutions about the International Year for the Culture of Peace and the International Day of Peace.\n\nThe action plan for the Decade proposes eight spheres of activities in which to work for the promotion of the Culture of Peace:\n\nOn 29 November 2000, the General Assembly decided to entrust UNESCO with the coordination \"of the activities of the organizations of the United Nations system to promote a culture of peace, as well as liaison with other organizations concerned in this matter.\". In 2009, the United Nations General Assembly, in a resolution on the International Decade for the Promotion of a Culture of Peace and Non-violence for the Children of the World, endorsed the ongoing work of the Culture of Peace News Network as an important part of the ongoing commitment of the UN to a culture of peace.\n\nNGOs and other civil society organizations were urged to contribute to a global movement for a culture of peace according to the Declaration and Programme of Action for a Culture of Peace, adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1999. In response, a mid-term report, submitted to the United Nations in 2005, included information from 700 organizations. In 2010 at the conclusion of the Decade, the Report from the Civil Society was submitted to the United Nations with detailed information and photographs about the actions of 1,054 organizations from over 100 countries. This information is the tip of an even larger iceberg, as indicated by the many partnerships listed by participating organizations which number in the many thousands. \n\nSome national NGOs coalitions promoting the Decade were established in several countries, including Austria, France, Italy and the Netherlands. These national coalitions along with international organizations decided to found the International Coalition for the Decade in June 2003.\n\nRelated to this UN Decade, in December 1998, the World Council of Churches adopted, at its 8th Assembly, in Harare (Zimbabwe), the Decade to Overcome Violence as one of its programmes for the decade 2000-2009.\n\nSue Gilmurray from the Anglican Pacifist Fellowship composed and recorded a cycle of songs to commemorate the decade. The songs tackle a variety of subjects, and they include a critique of the use of child soldiers and an attack on the promotion and marketing of violent films and games towards children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23975565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23975565", "title": "Intrinsic value (animal ethics)", "text": "Intrinsic value (animal ethics)\n\nIntrinsic value exists wherever self-valuing beings exist . The intrinsic value of a human, or any other sentient animal, is the value it confers on itself by desiring its own lived experience as an end in itself. Because intrinsic value is self-ascribed, all animals have it, unlike instrumental or extrinsic values. Instrumental value is the value that others confer on an animal (or on any other entity) because of its value as a resource (e.g. as property, labour, food, fibre, 'ecosystem services') or as a source of emotional, recreational, aesthetic or spiritual gratification. Intrinsic values are conferred from within an animal, and are therefore not directly measurable by economists, while extrinsic values are conferred from outside and can, in principle, be measured econometrically. \n\nThe phrase \"intrinsic value\" (often used synonymously with \"inherent value\") has been adopted by animal rights advocates. The Dutch \"Animal Health and Welfare Act\" referred to it in 1981: \"Acknowledgment of the intrinsic value of animals means that animals have value in their own right and as a consequence their interests are no longer automatically subordinate to man's interests.\" This acknowledgement has stirred a debate on what it entails in the context of animal husbandry, animal breeding, vivisection, animal testing and biotechnology. It is also used by environmental advocates and in law to holistically encompass the totality of intrinsic values in an ecosystem. Article 7(d) of New Zealand's \"Resource Management Act\" (RMA), for example, requires particular regard to be to given to \"intrinsic values of ecosystems\" \n\nMoral attitudes towards animals in the west (as expressed in public debate and legislation) have changed considerably over time. Britain's first anti-cruelty laws were introduced in the Cruelty to Animals Act 1835. This was followed by similar laws in many other countries, especially in the second half of the 20th century. These laws did not challenge the idea that other animals are resources for human use and they only limited those acts of cruelty which (a) had few economic or social repercussions; and (b) were offensive to human sensibilities (the so-called Offence principle) or at odds with human dignity. These regulations were anthropocentric in character: they generally gave human economic and recreational interests, such as farming, fishing and blood sports, greater priority than animal suffering - that is they favoured the animals' instrumental values over their intrinsic ones. \n\nDuring the second half of the 20th century, the intensification of cattle breeding, the growth of pig and chicken factory farming and the increased use of animals in harmful laboratory experiments provoked fierce debates in which the negative consequences for the animals themselves became an issue. Notably during the 1960s and 1970s, pressure groups started to argue on behalf of the interests of animals kept in laboratories and farms. They expressed their discontent with laws that protected the institutional cruelty of the animal exploitation industries while only prohibiting selected acts of individual cruelty in certain situations. They called for new forms of legislation that would protect animals for non-anthropocentric reasons.\n\nIn these discussions (of the moral relevance of the animal's welfare) two key issues were involved. To begin with, the Harm principle, rather than the Offence principle, should be the moral foundation for the protection of animals. Secondly, as to the scepticism expressed by scientists regarding the presence of consciousness and self-awareness in animals, they should be granted the benefit of the doubt by adopting the so-called \"analogy postulate\". Applied ethological research into the behaviour of animals in captivity made it clear that the intensive use of animals had negative effects on the animal's health and well-being. Nevertheless, concern for the well-being of animals had to be purged from anthropomorphism and sentimentalism. This point of view is taken for example in a report by the Dutch Federation of Veterinarians in the EEC (FVE, 1978) concerning welfare-problems among domestic animals. This document states that:\nalthough the interests of animals often conflict with the demands of society, society remains responsible for the welfare of the animals involved. Considerations regarding animal welfare ought to be based on veterinary, scientific and ethological norms, but not on sentiment. And although animals do not have fundamental rights, human beings have certain moral obligations towards them.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s, the criticism regarding the living conditions of farm and laboratory animals became mixed up with other social debates, notably the discussions concerning the protection of the (natural) environment and the ones concerning the development of new breeding techniques. Due to this broadening of the issues, other objections against the use of animals for scientific or economic reasons emerged. The instrumental use of the animals, it was said, is hard to reconcile with their \"intrinsic\" (or \"inherent\") value. In 1981 the Dutch government included the intrinsic value-argument in a statement concerning the protection of animals (CRM, 1981). Now a principle was formulated that allowed for the possibility that, in some cases, the interests of animals might prevail over and above those of science and industry. The interests of the animal involved health and well-being as experienced by the animals themselves, independent from considerations concerning their suitability for human use. It was now claimed that animals have an intrinsic value, that is a \"good-of-their-own\", and an interest in their own well-being.\n\nDevelopments within the field of biotechnology broadened the scope of the debate on the moral status of animals even more. After the controversy concerning the transgenic bull Herman and the lactoferrin project of GenePharming, modern biotechnology has almost become a synonym for genetic engineering. In the debate on bull Herman, concern for the intrinsic value of animals became an issue in its own right. Many felt that there was more to intrinsic value than merely the concern for the animal's welfare. Since then, intrinsic value not only refers to the animal's welfare, but also to the moral attitude society takes towards animals (or nature) as such. For some, this stance means a return to the Offence principle, and therefore not helpful in the struggle against anthropocentrism or anthropomorphism. Others however maintain that recognition of the intrinsic value of animals goes beyond animal welfare, since it respects the animal as \"centre of its own being\".\n\nThe cause of much confusion in the discussion over intrinsic value in relation to the moral status of animals, is the diversity of meanings and connotations associated with intrinsic value. Broadly speaking there are 4 main positions in this debate defining intrinsic value. One can adhere to a meaning of intrinsic value of animals in a sense that is:\n\n\nOf the first, behaviouristic interpretation, one can say (since it is \"morally neutral\") that it is useless to ethical theory. Of the fourth, attitudinal or intuitionistic interpretation, one can say that it is indiscriminate of sentience or interests, and could be used for any kind of (natural, cultural or abstract) entity worth protecting (including species, cultures, languages, historical buildings or sites, etc.). The core issue in the debate over intrinsic value of animals remains between utilitarianists and deontologists.\n\nJAAWS\n\nThe ethics of animal research. Talking Point on the use of animals in scientific research\n\nEthical and Scientific Considerations Regarding Animal Testing and Research\n"}
{"id": "58614707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58614707", "title": "Jason Wirth", "text": "Jason Wirth\n\nJason Martin Wirth is an American philosopher and professor of philosophy at Seattle University. He was the Theiline Pigott McCone Chair in Humanities from 2014 to 2016. He won The Torch Bearer Award in 2018. Wirth is known for his research on environmental philosophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23690058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23690058", "title": "Johan Rudolph Thorbecke", "text": "Johan Rudolph Thorbecke\n\nJohan Rudolph Thorbecke (14 January 1798 – 4 June 1872) was a Dutch statesman of a liberal bent, one of the most important Dutch politicians of the 19th century. In 1848, he virtually single-handedly drafted the revision of the Constitution of the Netherlands, giving less power to the king and more to the States General, and guaranteeing more religious, personal and political freedom to the people.\n\nThorbecke was born in Zwolle. His father Frederik Willem was a Lutheran tobacco manufacturer of German descent, while his mother Christine Regina was born in the Lower Saxon Osnabrück. Frederik Willem's business suffered badly from the anti-British policies of the French occupiers, and his tobacco factory went bankrupt in 1803, after which he was unable to find another source of employment and would spend most of his time on the education of Johan Rudolph and his younger brother. Johan Rudolph proved to be diligent and exemplary at a young age, showing intelligence and curiosity. Because of the sacrifices of his parents, who continued to struggle with financial problems, he was able to enjoy decent education. He enjoyed primary education in his birthplace and in Amsterdam, where he lived until 1806, and attended a Latin school back in Zwolle until 1814. Thorbecke began studying classical literature and philosophy in Amsterdam, studies he finished in Leiden defending a thesis on Asinius Pollio in 1820.\n\nShortly after taking his doctorate, Thorbecke was granted a state scholarship for a journey through Germany. At Giessen he lectured as an extraordinary professor, and at Göttingen, in 1824, published his treatise, \"Ueber das Wesen der Geschichte\". He would spend four years travelling, during which he was introduced to historism and Romanticism, and developed emotionally and spiritually. Upon his return to the Netherlands in 1824, he settled in Amsterdam, where he wrote his first political work of significance, \"Bedenkingen aangaande het Regt en Den Staat\" (\"Objections concerning the Law and the State\"). The work managed to catch attention, and Thorbecke became professor of Political Science at Ghent University the following year, a position he was forced to resign from due to the Belgian Revolution in 1830. The following year, Thorbecke became professor of Diplomacy and Modern History at the Leiden University, where his students would describe him as a distant, analytical mind, living a secluded life in his study.\n\nOriginally a loyal supporter of the conservative government of William I, Thorbecke developed a more critical view of the government and indeed the autocratic system of government throughout the 1830s. His increasingly strong support for constitutional reform is shown in a series of essays he published from 1839 onward, starting with \"Aanteekening op de grondwet\", literally \"Annotation on the constitution\". The climax of this series was \"Over het hedendaags burgerschap\", literally \"On contemporary citizenship\", published in 1844, in which he argued that universal suffrage would eventually be unavoidable.\n\nOn 21 May 1844, Thorbecke was elected into the House of Representatives for South Holland. In the House, he developed into the leader of the liberal opposition and, later that year, joined forces with eight like-minded members in a vain attempt to amend the constitution in the so-called \"Voorstel der Negenmannen\" (\"Proposition of the Nine Men\"). Four years later, with much of Europe convulsed by the Revolutions of 1848, William II agreed upon the formation of a committee for revision of the constitution. Thorbecke was appointed as head of this committee on 17 March. The changes were virtually all created by Thorbecke, as the other members of the committee did little but approve of his proposals. The drafted constitution was somewhat reluctantly approved by the States General, and was proclaimed on 3 November 1848. The new constitution established civil rights and parliamentary competences, and introduced direct election of members of House of Representatives and ministerial responsibility, thus limiting the power of the King and turning the country into a complete constitutional monarchy.\n\nDespite initial reluctance, William II appointed Thorbecke as formateur in late October 1849, and his first cabinet took office on 13 November. In this cabinet, Thorbecke served as minister of the Interior and chaired the Council of Ministers, thus becoming \"de facto\" Prime Minister of the Netherlands. Thorbecke's first cabinet passed several acts of particular importance, including the Electoral Act and the Province Act in 1850, and the Municipality Act in the following year. Despite these successes, Thorbecke's reforms were increasingly subjected to resistance, and he was criticised for his haughtiness and his strained relationship with the King. In 1853, the Catholic Church sought to restore the episcopal hierarchy in the Netherlands. Common people, pastors and conservative notables showed resistance to this in an anti-papal movement known as the \"Aprilbeweging\". Thorbecke, who remained passive in the issue in defence of the separation of church and state, was accused of catholic sympathies, and he was forced to resign.\n\nThorbecke spent nine years as leader of the opposition in the House of Representatives. He pleaded for neutrality in the Crimean War 1854, and opposed the religious nature of the Primary Education Act in 1857.\n\nThe collapse of the conservative cabinet in 1862 brought Thorbecke back in power. On 31 January 1862, he started his second term as minister of the Interior and chairman of the Council of Minister. Thorbecke's relationship with the King had improved because the focus of his reforms had shifted from politics to economics, and despite the increased disunity among the liberals, his cabinet lasted for four years because of the support of the Catholics. One of Thorbecke's first acts in his second term was the abolition of the governmental departments for religious services. Other notable achievements include the construction of several canals, the Secondary Education Act in May 1863, several acts on healthcare, and the municipal tax reform in 1865. The cabinet collapsed on 10 February 1866 and Thorbecke resigned after a conflict regarding criminal law in the Dutch East Indies.\n\nThorbecke returned to being leader of the opposition in the House of Representatives. In 1868, he formed the Van Bosse-Fock cabinet, but did not take part in the cabinet himself. Three years later, after this cabinet had collapsed over foreign policy, the 73-year old Thorbecke did not hesitate to start his third term. In December 1871 fell ill, and never fully recovered. Thorbecke died at his home in The Hague on 4 June 1872, at the age of 74.\n\nHated by some (he was not a man of concessions), he is nowadays considered a towering figure in Dutch parliamentary history. There are three statues of Thorbecke (one in Amsterdam, one in The Hague and one in Zwolle) and a room in the Dutch parliament building is named after him.\n\nThorbecke wrote many articles on history and several newspaper articles (especially in the \"Journal de La Haye\") on topics of the day. He published a study on the philosophy of history (in German). All of his speeches in parliament have been published.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55440237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55440237", "title": "John of St Amand", "text": "John of St Amand\n\nJohn of St Amand, Canon of Tournay (c. 1230–1303), also known as Jean de Saint-Amand and Johannes de Sancto Amando, was a Medieval author on pharmacology, teaching at the University of Paris. He wrote treatises on a variety of topics including magnetism and experimental method.\n\nAmong St Amand's many treatises was one on the magnet. His pharmacopoeia was the \"Commentary on the Antedotary of Nicholas\".\n\nLike Roger Bacon (c. 1219–c. 1292)) after him, St Amand wrote on experimental method. The historian of science Lynn Thorndike explains that St Amand \"asserts that experimentum alone is 'timorous and fallacious,' but that 'fortified by reason' it gives 'experimental knowledge.'\" In her view, what St Amand meant was that experimentation had to be methodical, and used alongside theory. On simples used in herbal medicine, St Amand stated specific rules for practical testing: he advised that the specimen had to be pure; that the test should be on a simple disease; that the test be repeated; and that the dose should depend on the patient. Thorndike notes that both St Amand and Albertus Magnus preceded Bacon in their use of the phrase \"experimental knowledge\".\n"}
{"id": "11832930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11832930", "title": "Jordán Bruno Genta", "text": "Jordán Bruno Genta\n\nJordán Bruno Genta, (2 October 1909 – 27 August 1974) was an Argentine writer and educator, widely considered the ideologue of the Argentine extreme right-wing.\n\nIn his youth, Genta actively campaigned against several attempts at education reform, fearing that the changes would dilute the influence of Catholic teachings. After the coup d'etat of 4 June 1943, Genta was appointed to head the Universidad del Litoral, and gained notoriety as a defender of reactionary ideas, to the point that the popular FORJA movement and its leader Arturo Jauretche publicly condemned Genta's positions.\n\nWhen Perón was removed from power in 1955, the armed forces were under the influence of liberal ideas as represented by Pedro Eugenio Aramburu and the Alsogaray family. Some conservative circles saw Aramburu's deposing of Eduardo Lonardi as a coup against traditional Catholic values, which led to the establishment a series of right-wing movements, the most notorious of those being \"Alianza Libertadora Nacionalista\" (\"Nationalist Liberation Alliance\").\n\nIn 1958, another education-related fight galvanized the conservative Catholics, and new groups started forming. Most of them saw Genta as their ideological referent, and sought his advice and endorsement. Genta approved of their actions, even those that involved desecration of Jewish cemeteries or physical attacks on Jewish students.\n\nAs the 1960s brought left-wing guerrilla activity to Argentina, Genta was recognized as one of the ideologues behind ever-more violent far right groups such as Tacuara. Ironically, some of Tacuara's young recruits would later form the core of the (allegedly left-wing Peronist) Montoneros movement.\n\nThe armed struggle degenerated into the so-called dirty war, which claimed thousands of lives and cast a heavy shadow over Argentine politics well into the 21st century. Genta himself would be the victim of such violence: on October 27, 1974, a People's Revolutionary Army (ERP) guerrilla shot Genta eleven times as he was leaving his home. Genta died immediately. The gunner left the scene in a getaway car followed by two back-up vehicles. Genta was survived by his wife, two children and two grandchildren.\n\nFor many years, far right activists would congregate at Genta's grave and shout slogans such as \"Viva la muerte!\" (Long live death), inspired by Franco's General Millán Astray, commander of the Spanish Legion.\n\nGenta's ideas were not confined to the fringes, as they influenced some sections of the military de facto governments, especially the National Reorganization Process (1976–1983). His staunch anti-communism and his contacts in the armed forces gained him some consideration from United States anti-communist operatives.\n"}
{"id": "21474839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21474839", "title": "Juan Nuño", "text": "Juan Nuño\n\nJuan Antonio Nuño Montes (Madrid, 27 March 1927 - Caracas, 5 May 1995) was a philosopher, writer and university professor.\n\nAfter leaving Spain in 1947, Nuño settled in Venezuela where he studied philosophy at the Central University of Venezuela. In 1951 he studied at the University of Cambridge and the University of Paris. In 1962 he finished his doctoral degree under Juan David García Bacca at the Central University of Venezuela and spent a year in Switzerland studying with Józef Maria Bocheński. He was the chair of the \"Instituto de Filosofía de la UCV\" from 1975 to 1979. In 1976 he became a member of the International Institute of Philosophy of Unesco (París). He taught at the Universidad Complutense, University of Barcelona, University of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras Campus, San Marcos University and the UNAM, where he founded the journal \"Crítica\" of the \"Instituto de investigaciones Filosóficas\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35607672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35607672", "title": "KIWI (openSUSE)", "text": "KIWI (openSUSE)\n\nKIWI is an application for making a wide variety of image sets for Linux supported hardware platforms as well as virtualisation systems including QEMU, Xen and VMware.\n\nIt is developed by the openSUSE Project and used to create openSUSE Linux but can also be employed to build a variety of other Linux distributions.\n\nKIWI has a large amount of documentation available, organised in 'cook books' which guide new users through the process of creating increasingly complicated KIWI images.\n\nBasic usage requires the installation of a number of tools besides KIWI, most notably for virtualization. KIWI is a command line tool and has no graphical user interface.\n\nKIWI is used by a variety of organizations in a variety of places. Besides SUSE Linux and the openSUSE Project, IBM has a product using KIWI and DELL employs it as well.\n\nSUSE Studio is a web interface (Ruby on Rails) to KIWI and the Open Build Service. It allows users to graphically put together a custom Linux OS and generate output including a large variety of virtual machine and disk images.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31262365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31262365", "title": "Kah Kyung Cho", "text": "Kah Kyung Cho\n\nKah Kyung Cho (born 1927) is a Korean-American philosopher. He specializes in phenomenology, hermeneutics, contemporary German philosophy, and East-West comparative philosophy. He has worked with continental philosophers such as Martin Heidegger and Hans-Georg Gadamer. He currently teaches at State University of New York. Cho's seminars have traditionally centered on discussions anchored in close textual and hermeneutical readings of works in the phenomenological tradition, including Heidegger's \"Fundamental Concepts of Metaphysics\", \"Being and Time,\" and Gadamer's \"Truth and Method.\"\n\nCho graduated from Seoul National University in South Korea in 1952, and then went to the University of Heidelberg in Germany to pursue a Ph.D., completing it in 1957. He became a professor at SUNY in 1971, and since then has also served as a visiting professor at a number of institutions including the University of Bochum in Germany and Osaka University in Japan. Dr. Cho was awarded the Fulbright Senior Research Professorship Award in 1961, the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation Research Grant in 1989, and 1997. \n\nIn his attempt to bring Asian thought to the attention of Western readers, Cho adopted a markedly different approach from that of Japanese philosophers, as Landgrebe pointed out. While most Japanese are used to relying on their own Zen Buddhist tradition as the basis for assimilating Western philosophy, Cho appealed to more original Chinese sources of Taoism and Neo-Confucianism in order to implement a much wider ranging conversation between the two traditions. The most important tool for this cross cultural research, for Cho, is Husserl's phenomenology. It is significant not only for its methodical thrust into the depth dimension of conscious and subconscious experience. Phenomenology provides, as Cho often emphasizes, the purest \"optical instrument\" with built-in possibilities for self-correction. If philosophy is in its essence the pursuit of self-knowledge, then the objectives for Asian philosophers are clearly mapped from the beginning. They are called upon to turn to their own traditions and engage their Western colleagues in conversations based on what they can positively contribute to sharing a higher and better level of knowledge.\n\nThe following is a \"partial\" list of publications by Kah-Kyung Cho.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3946908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3946908", "title": "Legal maxim", "text": "Legal maxim\n\nA legal maxim is an established principle or proposition of law in Western civilization, and a species of aphorism and general maxim. The word is apparently a variant of the Latin \"maxima\", but this latter word is not found in extant texts of Roman law with any denotation exactly analogous to that of a legal maxim in the Medieval or modern definition, but the treatises of many of the Roman jurists on \"regular definitiones\" and \"sententiae iuris\" are to some degree collections of maxims. Most of the Latin maxims originate from the Medieval era in European states that used Latin as their legal language.\n\nThe attitude of early English commentators towards the maximal of the law was one of unmingled adulation. In Thomas Hobbes, \"Doctor and Student\" (p. 26), they are described as of the same strength and effect in the law as statutes. Not only, observes Francis Bacon in the Preface to his Collection of Maxims, will the use of maxims be in deciding doubt and helping soundness of judgment, but, further, in gracing argument, in correcting unprofitable subtlety, and reducing the same to a more sound and substantial sense of law, in reclaiming vulgar errors, and, generally, in the amendment in some measure of the very nature and complexion of the whole law. \n\nA similar note was sounded in Scotland; and it has been well observed that a glance at the pages of Morrisons Dictionary or at other early reports will show how frequently in the older Scots law questions respecting the rights, remedies and liabilities of individuals were determined by an immediate reference to legal maxims.\n\nIn later times, less value has been attached to the maxims of the law, as the development of civilization and the increasing complexity of business relations have shown the necessity of qualifying the propositions which they enunciate. But both historically and practically, they must always possess interest and value.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25564321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25564321", "title": "Linda Gordon", "text": "Linda Gordon\n\nLinda Gordon is an American feminist and historian. She lives in New York City and in Madison, Wisconsin. She won the Marfield Prize for \"Dorothea Lange: A Life Beyond Limits\", and the Antonovych Prize for \"Cossack Rebellions: Social Turmoil in the Sixteenth-Century Ukraine\" (SUNY Press, 1983).\n\nLinda Gordon was born in Chicago but considers Portland, Oregon, her home town. Gordon is the daughter of William and Helen Appelman Gordon and the sister of Laurence Edward Gordon and Lee David Gordon. She is the wife of Allen Hunter and they have one daughter, Rosa Gordon Hunter, of Cambridge, MA. She graduated from Swarthmore College, and from Yale University with an MA and PhD in Russian History. Her dissertation was later published as \"Cossack Rebellions\".\n\nShe taught at the University of Massachusetts-Boston from 1968 to 1984, and at the University of Wisconsin–Madison from 1984 to 1999. The University of Wisconsin awarded her the university's most prestigious chair professorship, the Vilas Research Chair. Today, she is University Professor of the Humanities and Professor of History at New York University. Gordon was a founding associate editor of the \"Journal of Women's History\" and serves on the advisory board of \"Signs: Journal of Women in Culture and Society.\"\n\nStarting in the 1970s, Gordon’s research and writing examined the historical roots of contemporary social policy debates in the US, particularly as they concern gender and family issues. Her book on these topics, \"Woman's Body, Woman's Right\" (published in 1976 and reissued in 1990), remains the definitive history of birth control politics in the US. It was completely revised and re-published in 2002 as \"The Moral Property of Women.\"\n\nIn 1988 she published a historical study of how the U.S. has dealt with family violence, including child abuse, spousal violence and sexual abuse, \"Heroes of Their Own Lives\", which won the Joan Kelly prize of the American Historical Association.\n\n\"Pitied But Not Entitled\", her history of welfare, won the Berkshire Prize for best book in women's history and the Gustavus Myers Human Rights Award. Gordon was active with the failed campaign of a group of scholars of welfare protesting the repeal of Aid to Families with Dependent Children in 1996.\n\nShe served on the National Advisory Council on Violence Against Women during the Clinton administration.\n\nChanging direction in the 1990s, Gordon began to explore narrative, story-telling history, as a way of bringing large-scale historical developments to life. A westerner herself, she wanted to write stories that would help to counteract the East Coast bias in the way American history has been told. Her book \"The Great Arizona Orphan Abduction\", the story of a vigilante action against Mexican-Americans, won the Bancroft Prize for best book in American history and the Beveridge Award for best book on the history of the Western Hemisphere.\n\nHer biography of photographer Dorothea Lange won many prizes, including: the Bancroft prize for best book in US history (making Gordon one of the very few ever to win this award twice); the Los Angeles Times Book Prize for Biography; and the National Arts Club prize for best arts writing, to name a few. In the process of researching that book, she discovered an important group of Lange photographs long unnoticed and never published: photographs of the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II, commissioned by the US Army but then impounded because they were too critical of the internment policy. Gordon selected 119 of these images and published them, with introductory essays by herself and by historian Gary Okihiro.\n\nIn 2017, Gordon published \"The Second Coming of the KKK: The Ku Klux Klan of the 1920s and the American Political Tradition.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46654996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46654996", "title": "Mohamed Lakhdar Maougal", "text": "Mohamed Lakhdar Maougal\n\nMohamed Lakhdar Maougal is an Algerian philosopher. A specialist in the philosophy of language and sociolinguistics, he is the author of several books, including studies of Kateb Yacine and Albert Camus.\n\n"}
{"id": "2612206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2612206", "title": "Mystical realism", "text": "Mystical realism\n\nIn philosophy, mystical realism is a view concerning the nature of the divine. The philosophical use of the term originated with the Russian philosopher Nikolai Alexandrovich Berdyaev in his published article, titled \"Decadentism and Mystical Realism\".\n\nIt has two components: a metaphysical and an epistemological. \nThe metaphysical component rests on a distinction between the concepts \"real\" and \"exist\".\nSomething exists if it:\nMystical realism holds that divine entities are not accurately described in terms of space, matter, time, or causation, and so they, despite being real by the philosophy, do not exist.\n\n"}
{"id": "29054097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29054097", "title": "National Survey of Sexual Health and Behavior", "text": "National Survey of Sexual Health and Behavior\n\nThe National Survey of Sexual Health and Behavior is a study of human sexual behavior conducted in the United States by the Center for Sexual Health Promotion at Indiana University in Bloomington. Articles based on the study were first released in a supplement to the October, 2010 issue of \"Journal of Sexual Medicine\". \n\nThe survey, of about 6,000 subjects between the age of 14 and 94, living in the United States, showed a wide variety of sexual behavior. According to Debby Herbenick, PhD, of Indiana University in Bloomington, \"Adult men and women rarely engage in just one sex act when they have sex.\"\n\nSignificant findings include use of condoms in about 25% of instances of vaginal sex by adults, about 33% if they were single, with teenagers using condoms 70 to 80% of the time. Only a low level of sexual activity among the approximately 800 teenagers surveyed was found with incidence increasing with age. It was discovered that about one third of women reported pain during intercourse. A discrepancy was discovered between men's perception that their female partner had experienced orgasm, about 85%, and women's self-reporting of 64%.\n\nThe studies were sponsored by Church and Dwight maker of Trojan condoms. The sponsor offered input with respect to gathering information regarding use of condoms, settling with a formulation which requested information on whether condoms were used or not during the last 10 sexual encounters of each respondent.\n\nWith respect to condom use results were encouraging especially with respect to teenagers. Ethnic populations impacted by HIV/AIDS showed a higher rate of use than then general population as did dating adults. Discrepancies remain between the level of use optimal for public health and reported rate of use particularly by people over 40.\n\nWomen reported less satisfaction with sexual activity than men with less pleasure, less arousal, and fewer orgasms. This was hypothesized by one of the researchers as being related to the greater incidence of pain also reported by women.\n\n"}
{"id": "37077453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37077453", "title": "Navasana", "text": "Navasana\n\nNaukasana (\"Boat Pose\") is a seated yoga asana. Variations include Paripurna Navasana (; IAST: \"paripūrṇanāvāsana\" \"Full Boat Pose\"), Ardha Navāsana ( \"Half Boat Pose\"), and ekapadanavasana (\"one legged boat pose\").\n\nThe name comes from the Sanskrit words \"nava\" meaning \"boat\" and \"asana\" (आसन) meaning \"posture\" or \"seat\". In its literal translation, \"Boat Pose\", the body could be imagined to resemble a boat, entirely balanced on the buttocks.\n\nThe body comes into a V-shape, balancing entirely on the buttocks. In different variations and traditions, the arms legs and torso may take different positions. In Paripurna Navasana, the legs and back are lifted high and arms extend forward and parallel to the ground. In Arda Navasana, hands interlace behind the neck and both back and shoulders are closer to the ground.\n\nTo come into the pose, begin seated on the floor. Bend your knees, bringing the soles of the feet to the ground, and bring the palms to the back of the thighs. Begin to lean back as your shift your weight off of your feet, eventually lifting the soles of the feet off the earth all together. Balance on your seat bones, but not so far back that you're balancing on your tailbone. Lengthen the spine to broaden and lift the chest.\n\nThe asana strengthens the abdominal muscles, the legs and the lower back. Paripurna Navasana is said to relieve stress, improve digestion and aid the lower abdominal organs: kidney, intestines, and prostate for men. It can also stimulate the thyroid.It helps to improve concentration and enervates numbness in mind. It builds willpower, determination and self control. Ardha Navasana works on the upper abdominal organs: pancreas, gall bladder, spleen and liver.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7481132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7481132", "title": "Nicolas d'Orbellis", "text": "Nicolas d'Orbellis\n\nNicolas d'Orbellis was a French Franciscan theologian and philosopher, of the Scotist school.\n\nHe was born about 1400. He seems to have entered the monastery of the Observantines, founded in 1407, one of the first in France.\nHe appears to have been professor of theology and philosophy in the University of Angers, where he enjoyed great reputation as an expounder of the teaching of John Duns Scotus. After 1465 he wrote his chief work, a commentary on the Four Books of Sententiae 'Sentences'.\nHe died at Rome in 1475 and was interred in the church of the Ara Coeli on the Capitoline. Under the entry for the word Dorbel, the Oxford English Dictionary gives the date of his death as 1455. The meaning of Dorbel (based on the name of Nicholas de Orbellis) is given as: a scholastical pedant, a dull-witted person, dolt.\n\nHis chief works are:\n"}
{"id": "11879346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11879346", "title": "Spirit world (Spiritualism)", "text": "Spirit world (Spiritualism)\n\nThe spirit world, according to spiritualism, is the world or realm inhabited by spirits, both good or evil of various spiritual manifestations. Whereas religion regards an inner life, the spirit world is regarded as an external environment for spirits. Although independent from the natural world, both the spirit world and the natural world are in constant interaction. Through mediumship, these worlds can consciously communicate with each other. The spirit world is sometimes described by mediums from the natural world in trance.\nBy the mid 19th century most Spiritualist writers concurred that the spirit world was of \"tangible substance\" and a place consisting of \"spheres\" or \"zones\". Though specific details differed, the construct suggested organization and centralization. An 18th century writer, Emanuel Swedenborg, influenced Spiritualist views of the spirit world. He described a series of concentric spheres each including a hierarchical organization of spirits in a setting more earth-like than theocentric. The spheres become gradually more illuminated and celestial. Spiritualists added a concept of limitlessness, or infinity to these spheres. Furthermore, it was defined that Laws initiated by God apply to earth as well as the spirit world.\n\nAnother common Spiritualist conception was that the spirit world is inherently good and is related to truth-seeking as opposed to things that are bad residing in a \"spiritual darkness\". This conception inferred as in the biblical parable Lazarus and Dives that there is considered a greater distance between good and bad spirits than between the dead and the living. Also, the spirit world is \"The Home of the Soul\" as described by C. W. Leadbeater (Theosophist) suggesting that for a living human to experience the spirit world is a blissful, meaningful and life changing experience.\n\nYet, John Worth Edmonds stated in his 1853 work, \"Spiritualism\", \"Man's relation spiritually with the spirit-world is no more wonderful than his connection with the natural world. The two parts of his nature respond to the same affinities in the natural and spiritual worlds.\" He asserted, quoting Swedenborg through mediumship, that the relationship between man and the spirit world is reciprocal and thus could contain sorrow. Though ultimately, \"wandering through the spheres\" a path of goodness \"is received at last by that Spirit whose thought is universal love forever.\"\n"}
{"id": "25862935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25862935", "title": "Spomenka Hribar", "text": "Spomenka Hribar\n\nSpomenka Hribar (born 25 January 1941) is a Slovenian author, philosopher, sociologist, politician, columnist, and public intellectual. She was one of the most influential Slovenian intellectuals in the 1980s, and was frequently called \"the First Lady of Slovenian Democratic Opposition\", and \"the Voice of Slovenian Spring\" She is married to the Slovenian Heideggerian philosopher Tine Hribar.\n\nShe was born Spomenka Diklić in Belgrade, then the capital of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, to a Serb father (Radenko Diklić) and a Slovene mother (Marija Jelica Mravlje). Her father died at the Glavnjača prison, where the opponents of the collaborationist state of Milan Nedić were imprisoned. After World War II, she moved with her mother to Slovenia, then part of the Yugoslavia. She spent her childhood in the village of Žiri. After finishing high school in Škofja Loka, she enrolled at the University of Ljubljana, where she studied philosophy and sociology. She graduated in 1965 with a thesis on Marx's concept of freedom. Between 1965-66, she was co-editor of the student magazine \"Tribuna\". Under her solicitation, the magazine became one of the first Yugoslav student journals which also published pieces by students of theology. Among the young theologians sponsored by Hribar was also Anton Stres, later archbishop of Ljubljana who shared the same scholarly interest as Hribar in the Marxist and Hegelian conceptions of freedom.\n\nIn 1969, she got a job at the Institute for Sociology of the University of Ljubljana. Although a member of the Communist Party, she grew alienated from Marxism in the 1970s. Under the influence of the literary historian Dušan Pirjevec and the philosopher Tine Hribar, whom she later married, she developed an interest in the phenomenological philosophy of Martin Heidegger. In 1975, after the poet and thinker Edvard Kocbek publicly denounced the mass killings of Slovene Home Guard members by the Communist regime after World War II, she dedicated most of her intellectual endeavours to the understanding and explaining what she called the tragedy of Slovenian resistance and revolution during and after World War II.\n\nIn the 1980s, Spomenka and her husband Tine Hribar became important members of a newly formed circle of critical Slovene intellectuals, gathered around the journal \"Nova revija\". In 1983, she started writing the essay \"Guilt and Sin\" (\"Krivda in greh\"), which became one of the most influential texts in post-war Slovenia. In the essay, meant for publishing in a collective volume on Edvard Kocbek, she denounced the mass killings in Slovenia after World War II.\n\nIn early 1984, the essay leaked to the officials of the League of Communists of Slovenia. In September of the same year, shortly before the planned issue of the volume, the official Slovenian press launched a campaign against Spomenka Hribar, accusing her of counter-revolutionary attitudes and slander against the partisan resistance. In 1985, she was expelled from the Communist Party. Despite the denigration campaign, many important public figures rose to her defence, including the sociologist Pavle Gantar. In this period, she was first called \"the Slovene Antigone\", an epitome that has stuck to her since then. In 1987, she was a co-author of the Contributions for the Slovenian National Program, a collective text in which several Slovene public intellectuals and scholars demanded a sovereign and democratic Slovenian state.\n\nIn 1989, she was one of the co-founders of the Slovenian Democratic Union, one of the first anti-Communist parties in Slovenia. Together with her husband Tine Hribar and the jurists France Bučar and Peter Jambrek She became one of the party's foremost theoreticians. In the first free elections in Slovenia in April 1990, won by the Democratic Opposition of Slovenia, she was elected to the Slovenian Parliament. Between 1990 and 1991, she was very active in the endeavours for the secession of Slovenia from Yugoslavia. Together with Jože Pučnik, she emerged as the leader of the DEMOS coalition majority in the Lower Chamber of the Slovenian Parliament.\n\nAt the same time, she grew increasingly critical to the right wing of the DEMOS coalition, embodied by the Slovene Christian Democrats, whom she accused of backing the Roman Catholic Church and favouring their own sectarian vision of neo-conservative revisionism against the common endeavours for Slovenian independence from Yugoslavia. After the Ten-Day War, Hribar turned against the conservative wing of her own party, the Slovenian Democratic Union. The clash resulted in the split of the party between the social liberal Democratic Party and the liberal conservative National Democratic Party, which occurred in late 1991. In 1992, Hribar was among those who pushed for the dissolution of the DEMOS coalition, and backed the formation of a centre left government under the Liberal Democrat Janez Drnovšek.\n\nBefore the elections of 1992, Spomenka Hribar caused a famous controversy with the article \"Stopping the Right Wing\" (\"Zaustaviti desnico\", sometimes erroneously rendered as an imperative, \"Zaustavite desnico\", that is \"Stop the Right Wing!\"). In the article, she warned against the rise of right wing discourse in post-independence Slovenia.\n\nAfter the failure of the Democratic Party in 1992, Hribar withdrew from party politics, but remained in public life as a commentator and columnist. In her articles, she has stood up for various left liberal values in various contexts, from bioethics to immigration and integration policies. Her criticism towards the Slovenian right wing gradually brought Hribar closer to the Slovenian left wing, including then- President of Slovenia Milan Kučan and the third way reformist circles within the United List of Social Democrats. She frequently, however, took a more nationalist stand regarding foreign policy, especially the border disputes with neighbouring Croatia.\n\nIn the 1990s, Spomenka Hribar emerged as one of the strongest critics of the politician Janez Janša, one of the leaders of the Slovenian right wing. The two had been close allies until 1992. In 1992, Spomenka Hribar and her husband Tine Hribar even offered Janša to take the leadership of the liberal wing of the Slovenian Democratic Union However, both later accused Janša of populism and condemned his conciliatory attitude towards the conservative sections of Slovenian Catholicism.\n\nSpomenka Hribar turned against Janša in 1996, denouncing his \"right wing turn\" and accusing him of a sectarian and paranoiac conception of politics. She later intensified her criticism, accusing him of authoritarianism and demagoguery. Differently from her husband Tine Hribar, who became more conciliatory towards Janša after 2004, seeing him as an essentially positive figure in Slovenian conservativism and implicitly supporting him in the 2004 elections,\n\nShe maintained her position against the conservative politician. In 2007, she accused him of corruption and anti-democratic attitudes. Janša has accused Hribar of fostering personal animosity against his person, and stimulating a climate of culture wars in Slovenia. In Janša's view, Hribar has always had a deep disinterest in economic policies; she has failed to analyse the true power and economic relations in Slovenian society by obscuring them with both ideological mystifications and personal obsessions, thus helping the liberal economic and political establishment that has hegemonized the Slovenian public sphere since the 1990s. Spomenka's husband, Tine, who shared her political views throughout the 1990s, has maintained a substantially positive opinion of Janša since 2004.\n\nIn 2009, the youth wing of the New Slovenia party claimed Spomenka had collaborated with the Yugoslav Secret Police (UDBA) based on a number with her name in leaked files. However, the file number is among the range associated with people that were monitored by the secret police, rather than those that collaborated with them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1405654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1405654", "title": "Thermolabile", "text": "Thermolabile\n\nThermolabile refers to a substance which is subject to destruction, decomposition, or change in response to heat. This term is often used to describe biochemical substances.\n\nFor example, many bacterial exotoxins are thermolabile and can be easily inactivated by the application of moderate heat. \nEnzymes are also thermolabile and lose their activity when the temperature rises.\nLoss of activity in such toxins and enzymes is likely due to change in the three-dimensional structure of the toxin protein during exposure to heat.\nIn pharmaceutical compounds, heat generated during grinding may lead to degradation of thermolabile compounds.\n\nThis is of particular use in testing gene function. This is done by intentionally creating mutants which are thermolabile. Growth below the permissive temperature allows normal protein function, while increasing the temperature above the permissive temperature ablates activity, likely by denaturing the protein.\n\nThermolabile enzymes are also studied for their applications in DNA replication techniques, such as PCR, where thermostable enzymes are necessary for proper DNA replication. Enzyme function at higher temperatures may be enhanced with trehalose, which opens up the possibility of using normally thermolabile enzymes in DNA replication. \n\n"}
{"id": "162546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162546", "title": "Two-source hypothesis", "text": "Two-source hypothesis\n\nThe two-source hypothesis (or 2SH) is an explanation for the synoptic problem, the pattern of similarities and differences between the three Gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke. It posits that the Gospel of Matthew and the Gospel of Luke were based on the Gospel of Mark and a hypothetical sayings collection from the Christian oral tradition called Q.\n\nThe two-source hypothesis emerged in the 19th century. B. H. Streeter definitively stated the case in 1924, adding that two other sources, referred to as M and L, lie behind the material in Matthew and Luke respectively. The strengths of the hypothesis are its explanatory power regarding the shared and non-shared material in the three gospels; its weaknesses lie in the exceptions to those patterns, and in the hypothetical nature of its proposed collection of Jesus-sayings. Later scholars have advanced numerous elaborations and variations on the basic hypothesis, and even completely alternative hypotheses. Nevertheless, \"the 2SH commands the support of most biblical critics from all continents and denominations.\"\n\nWhen Streeter's two additional sources, M and L, are taken into account, this hypothesis is sometimes referred to as the four-document hypothesis.\n\nThe two-source hypothesis was first articulated in 1838 by Christian Hermann Weisse, but it did not gain wide acceptance among German critics until Heinrich Julius Holtzmann endorsed it in 1863. Prior to Holtzmann, most Catholic scholars held to the Augustinian hypothesis (Matthew → Mark → Luke) and Protestant biblical critics favored the Griesbach hypothesis (Matthew → Luke → Mark). The Two-Source Hypothesis crossed the channel into England in the 1880s primarily due to the efforts of William Sanday, culminating in B. H. Streeter's definitive statement of the case in 1924. Streeter further argued that additional sources, referred to as M and L, lie behind the material in Matthew and Luke respectively.\n\nThe hypothesis is a solution to what is known as the synoptic problem: the question of how best to account for the differences and similarities between the three synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark and Luke. The answer to this problem has implications for the order in which the three were composed, and the sources on which their authors drew.\n\nAny solution to the synoptic problem needs to account for two features:\n\nThe 2SH attempts to solve the synoptic problem by advancing two propositions, Markan priority to explain the triple tradition, and the existence of a lost Q document to solve the double tradition. In summary, the two-source hypothesis proposes that Matthew and Luke used Mark for its narrative material as well as for the basic structural outline of chronology of Jesus' life; and that Matthew and Luke use a second source, Q (from German Quelle, “source”), not extant, for the sayings (logia) found in both of them but not in Mark.\n\nThe 2SH explains the features of the triple tradition by proposing that both Matthew and Luke used Mark as a source. Mark appears more 'primitive': his diction and grammar are less literary than Matthew and Luke, his language is more prone to redundancy and obscurity, his Christology is less supernatural, and he makes more frequent use of Aramaic. The more sophisticated versions of Mark's pericopes in Matthew and Luke must be either the result of those two \"cleaning up\" Mark, if his is the first gospel, or of Mark \"dumbing down\" Matthew and/or Luke, if he was later. Critics regard the first explanation as the more likely. On a more specific level, Marcan priority seems to be indicated due to instances where Matthew and Luke apparently omit explanatory material from Mark, where Matthew adds his own theological emphases to Mark's stories, and in the uneven distribution of Mark's stylistic features in Matthew.\n\nThe 2SH explains the double tradition by postulating the existence of a lost \"sayings of Jesus\" document known as Q, from the German \"Quelle\", \"source\". It is this, rather than Markan priority, which forms the distinctive feature of the 2SH as against rival theories. The existence of Q follows from the conclusion that, as Luke and Matthew are independent of Mark in the double tradition, the connection between them must be explained by their joint but independent use of a missing source or sources. (That they used Q independently of each other follows from the fact that they frequently differ quite widely in their use of this source).\n\nWhile the 2SH remains the most popular explanation for the origins of the synoptic gospels, two questions, the existence of the so-called \"minor agreements\", and problems with the hypothesis of Q, continue at the centre of discussion over its explanatory power.\n\nThe \"minor agreements\"—the word \"minor\" here is not intended to be belittling—are those points where Matthew and Luke agree against Mark (for example, the mocking question at the beating of Jesus, \"Who is it that struck you?\", found in both Matthew and Luke but not in Mark). The \"minor agreements\" thus call into question the proposition that Matthew and Luke knew Mark but not each other. Streeter devoted a chapter to the matter, arguing that the Matthew/Luke agreements were due to coincidence, or to the result of the two authors' reworking of Mark into more refined Greek, or to overlaps with Q or oral tradition, or to textual corruption.\n\nA few later scholars explain the minor agreements as being due to Luke's using Matthew in addition to Q and Mark (3SH). But the modern argument for Q requires Matthew and Luke to be independent, so the 3SH raises the question of how to establish a role for Q if Luke is dependent on Matthew. Accordingly, some scholars (like Helmut Koester) who wish to keep Q while acknowledging the force of the minor agreements attribute them to a proto-Mark, such as the Ur-Markus in the Markan Hypothesis (MkH), adapted by Mark independently from its use by Matthew and Luke. Still other scholars feel that the minor agreements are due to a revision of our Mark, called deutero-Mark. In this case, both Matthew and Luke are dependent on proto-Mark, which did not survive the ages.\n\n\"Therefore, the minor agreements, if taken seriously, force a choice between accepting pure Markan priority on one hand or the existence of Q on the other hand, but not both simultaneously as the 2SH requires.\"\n\nA principal objection to the 2SH is that it requires a hypothetical document, Q, the existence of which is not attested in any way, either by existing fragments (and a great many fragments of early Christian documents do exist) or by early Church tradition. The minor agreements are also, according to the critics, evidence of the non-existence of, or rather the non-necessity for, Q: if Matthew and Luke have passages which are missing in Mark (the \"Who is it that struck you?\" sentence quoted above is a famous example), this demonstrates only that Matthew is quoting Luke or vice versa.\n\nTwo additional problems are noteworthy, the \"problem of fatigue\" and the Q narrative problem. The first relates to the phenomenon that a scribe, when copying a text, will tend to converge on his source out of simple fatigue. Thus Mark calls Herod by the incorrect title \"basileus\", \"king\", throughout, while Matthew begins with the more correct \"tetrarches\" but eventually switches to \"basileus\". When similar changes occur in double tradition material, which according to the 2SH are the result of Matthew and Luke relying on Q, they usually show Luke converging on Matthew.\n\nPierson Parker in 1940 suggested that the non-canonical Gospel of the Hebrews was the second source used in the Gospel of Luke. This view is yet to gain influence.\n\nThe two-document hypothesis emerged in the 19th century: Mark as the earliest gospel, Matthew and Luke written independently and reliant on both Mark and the hypothetical Q.\nIn 1924 B. H. Streeter refined the \"Two Document Hypothesis\" into the Four Document Hypothesis based on the possibility of a Jewish M source (see the Gospel according to the Hebrews).\n\nWhile the standard two-source theory holds Mark and Q to be independent, some argue that Q was also a source for Mark. This is sometimes called the \"Modified two-document hypothesis\" (although that term was also used in older literature to refer to the Four-document hypothesis).\n\nA number of scholars have suggested a Three-source hypothesis, that Luke actually did make some use of Matthew after all. This allows much more flexibility in the reconstruction of Q.\n\nDunn proposes an \"Oral Q\" hypothesis, in which Q is not a document but a body of oral teachings.\n\nSome form of the Two Source hypothesis continues to be preferred by a majority of New Testament scholars as the theory that is best able to resolve the synoptic problem. Nevertheless, doubts about the problems of the minor agreements and, especially, the hypothetical Q, have produced alternative hypotheses.\n\nIn 1955 a British scholar, A. M. Farrer, proposed that one could dispense with Q by arguing that Luke revised both Mark and Matthew. In 1965 an American scholar, William R. Farmer, also seeking to do away with the need for Q, revived an updated version of Griesbach's idea that Mark condensed both Matthew and Luke. In Britain, the most influential modern opponents of the 2SH favor the Farrer hypothesis, while Farmer's revised Griesbach hypothesis, also known as the Two Gospel hypothesis, is probably the chief rival to the Two Source hypothesis in America.\n\nIn 1838, the German theologian Christian Gottlob Wilke argued for a solution that combined Marcan priority with an extensively developed argument for Matthew’s direct dependence upon both Mark and Luke. Thus, like Farrer, Wilke's hypothesis has no need for Q, but it simply reverses the direction of presumed dependence between Matthew and Luke proposed by Farrer. A few other German scholars supported Wilke's hypothesis in the nineteenth century, but in time most came to accept the two-source hypothesis, which remains the dominant theory to this day. The Wilke hypothesis was accepted by Karl Kautsky in his Foundations of Christianity and has begun to receive new attention in recent decades since its revival in 1992 by Huggins, then Hengel, then independently by Blair. Additional recent supporters include Garrow and Powell.\n\nThe traditional view is represented by the Augustinian hypothesis, which is that the four gospels were written in the order in which they appear in the bible (Matthew → Mark → Luke), with Mark a condensed edition of Matthew. This hypothesis was based on the claim by the 2nd century AD bishop Papias that he had heard that Matthew wrote first. By the 18th century the problems with Augustine's idea led Johann Jakob Griesbach to put forward the Griesbach hypothesis, which was that Luke had revised Matthew and that Mark had then written a shorter gospel using material on which both Matthew and Luke agreed (Matthew → Luke → Mark).\n\nA variant of the Augustinian hypothesis, attempting to synchronise Matthew and Mark on the basis of the Mosaic \"two witnesses\" requirement of Deuteronomy 19:15 (Matthew + Mark, → Luke), was proposed by Eta Linnemann, following rejection of the view of her teacher Rudolf Bultmann.\n\n"}
{"id": "25242879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25242879", "title": "William Manderstown", "text": "William Manderstown\n\nWilliam Manderstown (c.1485–1552, also spelled \"Manderston\") was a Scottish philosopher and Rector of the University of Paris.\n\nHe was born in the diocese of St. Andrews, probably at the town of Manderston, Stirlingshire. Educated apparently at St. Andrews, he then attended the University of Paris, where he graduated licentiate in medicine, and became one of the school of Terminists (at whose head was John Mair). On 15 December 1525, he succeeded Jean Tixier de Ravisi as rector of the University of Paris. Before 1539 he returned to Scotland, where he and John Mair co-founded a bursary or chaplaincy in St. Salvator's, and endowed it with the rents of houses in South Street, St. Andrews. On 3 April in the same year, Manderstown witnessed a charter at Dunfermline Monastery. He also served as rector in Gogar.\n\nIn 1519, with George Lokert and Gervasius Waim, he edited the \"Quaestiones ac decisiones physicales\" of Albert of Saxony.\n\nIn 1518 Manderstown published at Paris two works, \"Bipartitum in Morali Philosophia Opusculum\", dedicated to Andrew Forman, and \"Tripartitum Epithoma Doctrinale\"; in the latter he was later said to have plagiarised from Jérôme de Hangest. Besides these, Thomas Tanner attributes to Manderstown: 1. \"In Ethicam Aristotelis ad Nicomachum Comment\"; 2. \"Quæstionem de Futuro Contingenti\"; 3. \"De Arte Chymica\".\n"}
{"id": "586169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=586169", "title": "Ōbaku", "text": "Ōbaku\n\nThe is one of several schools of Zen in Japanese Buddhism, in addition to Sōtō and Rinzai.\n\nOften termed the third sect of Zen Buddhism in Japan, Ōbaku-shū was established in 1661 by a small faction of masters from China and their Japanese students at Manpuku-ji in Uji, Japan.\n\nToday Manpuku-ji serves as the Ōbaku's head temple, with 420 subtemples spread throughout Japan as of 2006. In addition to their contribution to the culture of Zen in Japan, the Ōbaku also \"disseminated many aspects of Ming-period culture\" in the country. Many of the monks who came from China were accomplished calligraphers, and Obaku's founder Yinyuan Longqi and two other Ōbaku masters, Mokuan Shōtō and Sokuhi Nyoitsu, became known as the Ōbaku no Sanpitsu (or, the \"Three Brushes of Ōbaku\"). Author Steven Heine writes, \"Areas where the influence of — or the reaction to — Ōbaku left an imprint on Japanese Buddhism is manifold, and its impact even reached the fields of Japanese cultural techniques, such as printing and painting. Chinese medicine and architecture were also introduced, as was the practice of \"spirit writing\", the latter practiced by Ōbaku monks who were said to communicate with Chen Tuan.\n\nRooted in the lineage (school) of Linji, and therefore sharing a familial relationship with the Rinzai-shū of Japan, the Ōbaku's approach to practice is today tinged with a hint of Chinese influence. More narrowly, Ōbaku abbots are now all from the Ōtōkan lineage, the same as Rinzai, and thus practices are largely similar, though this was not the case originally. Historically, the Ōbaku-shū has sometimes been referred to as \"Nembutsu Zen\"—a derogatory characterization intended to describe their use of \"Zen and Pure Land practices.\" Helen J. Baroni writes that today, \"With a few notable exceptions, such as the style of sutra chanting (which continues to be done in an approximation of Fujian dialect), Ōbaku temples and monasteries appear very like their Rinzai neighbors.\" Statistically the smallest school/sect of Zen in modern-day Japan, the Ōbaku is also like the Rinzai-shū in that it is known to be more conservative and intellectually inclined than the Sōtō-shū.\nThe development of the Ōbaku-shū in Japan began somewhere around 1620, a period when Chinese emigrants were coming to Nagasaki due to a decree by the shogunate allowing Chinese traders to conduct business there. The Chinese traders, in turn, began to request that monks from China come to Nagasaki \"to serve the religious needs of their community and build monasteries in the late-Ming style with which they were familiar.\" The Chinese community was therefore thrilled when the founder of the Ōbaku, a master of the Linji school/sect named Yinyuan Longqi (J. \"Ingen Ryūki\"), arrived from China in Nagasaki in 1654 with a small group of his Chinese students. Furthermore, Yinyuan himself was happy to get away from China, which was then amidst a terrible war. Yinyuan was there with the explicit purpose of helping three underdeveloped temples founded by Chinese emigrants grow in the city. These Nagasaki temples were known as the three \"temples of good fortune,\" respectively Kōfuku-ji, Fukusai-ji and Sōfuku-ji. In time many Japanese heard of his teachings and traveled to Nagasaki to see him, some of whom came to join his community and become a student. Having planned to stay in Japan for a short period of time, Yinyuan was persuaded by a group of his Japanese students to remain in Japan; this group got him governmental permission to relocate to Kyoto, where his student Ryūkai Shōsen wished he would then become abbot of the Rinzai temple Myoshin-ji. Authorities within the Rinzai organization were not keen on this idea, the divide stemming primarily from a disagreement within the congregation as to whether or not Yinyuan presented a take on Zen that was too distinctly Chinese for Japanese tastes. As a consequence, Yinyuan began construction of the modern day head temple of the Ōbaku known as Ōbaku-san Manpuku-ji in 1661 in Uji of Kyoto prefecture (Ōbaku-san being the mountain name). This marks the emergence of the Ōbaku school/sect of Zen Buddhism in Japan.\n\nConstruction was completed in 1669, the architecture done in the Chinese Ming dynasty style. By authorization of the local bakufu leaders (i.e. Tokugawa Tsunayoshi), the Ōbaku-shu emerged to help revitalize Rinzai practice in Japan. The practice at Manpuku-ji was different from that in other Rinzai temples and monasteries of Japan during this period, much more Chinese in its approach. Yinyuan brought with him aspects of esoteric Buddhism and Pure Land Buddhism. As Heinrich Dumoulin puts it, \"For Zen practice in general, seated meditation and the practice of kōan are central, while cultic ceremony is of secondary importance. Insofar as the Ōbaku belonged to the Rinzai tradition, \"zazen\" and kōan practice were made part of daily life, but ritual was also accorded a place of considerable importance.\" Furthermore, Ōbaku monasteries and temples came to be governed by a doctrine known as \"Ōbaku shingi\", which both imported Chinese practices such as the recitation (dharani) of nembutsu and \"sought to preserve the Chinese character of the group.\" The Ōbaku also chanted sutras derived from the Pure Land Buddhism sect set to Chinese music.\nAfter Yinyuan's retirement in 1664 and death in 1673, other monks who had come to Japan around the same time as he helped to carry on the tradition of practice at Manpuku-ji. The foremost of his disciples was Mokuan Shōtō, who became 2nd abbot of Manpuku-ji in 1664. During its formative years, Manpuku-ji was very popular in Japan with many adherents coming to the temple for instruction. According to the book \"Latter Days of the Law\", \"For the next century, Manpuku-ji was headed by Chinese immigrant monks, and they sent their Japanese followers to found other temples. Obaku Zen quickly spread through the country.\" At least one abbot of Manpuku-ji during this period of early Obaku history proved to be controversial. His name was Tu-chan Hsing-jung (Dokutan Shōtei), and he served as 4th abbot of Manpuku-ji. Critics charge that he took his emphasis on nembutsu recitation at Manpuku-ji too far, and he is today derisively nicknamed \"Nembutsu Dokutan\".\n\nPerhaps the most important Ōbaku practitioner besides Yinyuan Longqi was Tetsugen Dōkō, a Japanese man who lived from 1630 to 1682. Tetsugen is remembered for having transcribed the entire Ming period Chinese Tripitaka to woodblocks—known as the \"Tetsugen-ban\" or \"Ōbaku-ban\" (\"ban\" meaning edition). Raised as part of the Jōdo Shinshū of Japan, Tetsugen first met Yinyuan in 1655 at Kōfuku-ji in Nagasaki and eventually came to join the Ōbaku. The first Japanese abbot of Mampuku-ji assumed leadership of the Ōbaku in 1740, a man by the name of Ryūtō Gentō. From 1786 on through to modern day, the Ōbaku has been run and controlled by exclusively Japanese leadership.\n\nMonastic practices of the Ōbaku-shū were once largely informed by the \"Ōbaku shingi\" (or, \"Ōbaku codes\"), composed in 1672 with ten sections outlining the practice regimen at Manpuku-ji. Steven Heine writes that, \"The text reflected a few evolutionary changes that had taken place in Chinese monasteries since the Yuan, but it was squarely in the tradition of classical rules of purity such as the \"Chanyuan qingui\" and \"Chixiu baizhang qingqui\".\" The Rinzai branch Myōshin-ji authored their own set of monastic regulations (penned by Mujaku Dōchū) in response to this later in 1685. To be sure, Myoshinji was worried about losing students to the Ōbaku, who were growing in popularity. The Ōbaku's \"emphasis on the precepts and the strict observance of monastic regulations embodied in \"Ōbaku shingi\" seem to have stimulated and encouraged certain Japanese masters of similar bent. In the Sōtō sect, for example, the Chinese teachers influenced the monastic codes of reformers like Gesshū Sōko and Manzan Dōhaku who had studied under Ōbaku masters.\"\n\nThe Ōbaku-shū emphasized the taking of various precepts and also observed the Vinaya of the Dharmaguptaka tradition as well as sutra translation. But perhaps most obvious to the Japanese was their use of \"nembutsu\" and also their use of the \"nembutsu kōan\" which entailed the practice of reciting the name of Amitabha while holding in one's mind the kōan, \"Who is reciting?\" While foreign to the Japanese (despite this \"dual practice\" being introduced in Japan as early as the late 13th century), this was very common in Ming period Ch'an, where there was no sectarian divide between Pure Land Buddhists and Ch'an practitioners. Author Steven Heine writes:\n\nAs a result of their approach, many Rinzai and Sōtō masters undertook reforming and revitalizing their own monastic institutions, such as Rinzai master Ungo Kiyō who even began implementing the use of \"nembutsu\" into his training regimen at Zuigan-ji. T. Griffith Foulk writes:\n\nSpecifically, starting under the leadership of chief abbot Ryochu Nyoryu 良忠如隆 (1793–1868), Zen practice largely became the same as Rinzai practice, but monastic and cultural differences remain. Additionally, Buddhist sutras in the Ōbaku-shū continue today to be chanted in Chinese.\n\nThe Ōbaku school is also well known for its style of vegetarian cooking known as , its version of Buddhist cuisine (in Japan known as ). This is similar to usual \"shōjin ryōri,\" but with more Chinese influence. It was introduced by Yinyuan and his group, and served at the main temple of Manpuku-ji, along with various subtemples such as Kanga-an.\n\nThe Ōbaku school also introduced to Japan and practices a variant of the Japanese tea ceremony which uses sencha leaf tea, rather than the more usual matcha powdered tea – see sencha tea ceremony.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
