{"id": "53984196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53984196", "title": "1953 Cuba census", "text": "1953 Cuba census\n\nThe 1953 Cuba census was the fourteenth national population census held in Cuba. The day used for the census, was 28 January 1953. The census revealed a total population of 5,829,029, - an overall increase of 1,050,446 or 2.08% over the 1943 census figure.\n\nPopulation counts for Cuban provinces:\nThe number of people living in Cuba who were foreign-born continued to decrease in absolute numbers and percentage from the previous census. In 1953, 230,431 people (3.95 percent) were born outside of Cuba.\n"}
{"id": "47367306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47367306", "title": "Abortion in the Northern Mariana Islands", "text": "Abortion in the Northern Mariana Islands\n\nAbortion in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, a United States territory, is illegal per 11 TTC § 51, which states:\n\nEvery person who shall unlawfully cause the miscarriage or premature delivery of a woman, with the intent to do so, shall be guilty of abortion and upon conviction thereof shall be imprisoned for a period of not more than five years. (Code 1966, § 405; Code 1970, tit. 11, § 51.)\n\nIn a 1971 case, \"Trust Territory v. Tarkong\", the Appellate Court of the Trust Territory (see also United States territorial court) held:\n\nAs far as the woman herself is concerned, unless the abortion statute expressly makes her responsible, it is generally held, although the statute reads any \"person\", that she is not liable to any criminal prosecution, whether she solicits the act or performs it upon herself.\n\nTension has existed between Interpretations of U.S. federal law up against local Commonwealth law. However, a recent governor has asserted that until either U.S. federal or local Commonwealth courts state otherwise, or unless the Commonwealth government carves out any legal allowances, abortion remains illegal in all circumstances in the Commonwealth. In practice, abortions to save the life of the mother or when pregnancy is the result of rape or incest occur without prosecution.\n"}
{"id": "32085150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32085150", "title": "Afro-Hondurans", "text": "Afro-Hondurans\n\nAfro-Hondurans or Black Hondurans, are Hondurans of African descent. They descended from African slaves imported by the Spanish, Garifunas and Creole peoples. The Creole people were originally from Jamaica and other Caribbean islands and arrived in Honduras between the nineteenth and early twentieth century to work on the export of bananas and in construction.\n\nAfro-Honduran are Hondurans of African descent. They are estimated to be 3% population of the country. Those brought during colonial times mixed with Indians and Spanish, the Garifuna, and the Bay Island Creoles.\nAccording to the CIA, the ethnic group makeup in Honduras are 90% mestizo, 7% Amerindian, 2% black, and 1% white.\n\nOne of the first African slaves who arrived in Honduras, Juan Bardales, participated in the Spanish conquest of the province, especially in Trujillo. Shortly thereafter, Berdales was awarded with his freedom. In Honduras, slaves played an important role in the mining industry. Many of them came from Africa, from places like Angola or Senegambia, while others came from the Caribbean. In 1542, 165 slaves came via Portugal and 150 from Santo Domingo. In Honduras, were imported slaves Mandinka kangkurao of the Gambia River in Senegambia.\n\nBy the mid-sixteenth century, between 1000 and 1500 enslaved blacks worked in the gold washings of Olancho, slaves who possibly hailed from Africa. In Honduras, for 1590, arrived in Olancho and at Rio Guayape three hundred Africans for work in mining. A crew of Angolas worked in the mines and businesses in San Miguel. Although many mulattoes and browns also worked in Tegucigalpa for the same dates. Between 1750 and 1779, a larger group of African slaves, Carabali and mondongos (a Kongo tribe) people, were taken to Honduras to build the military fort San Fernando de Omoa, the most important in the region.\n\nIn 1796, approximately 300 \"French black\" from the French colony of Saint Domingue came to Trujillo, in the context of the conflict that gave rise to the independence of Haiti. In 1797, the British exported between 2,000 and 4,000 Black Caribs - mixture of Carib Indians and African Blacks - to the island o Roatán in Honduras, because they rebelled against them on the island St. Vincent. After this, these Garifuna, as called themselves, migrated to Trujillo and from there, scattered along the coasts of all the Central American mainland until Costa Rica (without reaching this place), especially by the persecutions to which they were subjected by the Spanish authorities. Some of them were involved in the civil wars of the time.\n\nIn the late eighteenth century records tell of significant percentages of blacks and mulattoes in Tegucigalpa. But at the end of the colonial period, slaves were already mainly mulattoes. Between the late eighteenth and mid-nineteenth century, the British introduced black slaves from Jamaica, Cayman Island and Belize in Honduras.\n\nAccording to Luis Pedro Taracena, in these years, Tegucigalpa was populated by 80% mulattoes and this percentage was increasing over time, at least until 1815 (when they were 86% of the population). During the twentieth century, mulattoes and browns were progressively neutralized under the category of \"Ladino\". According to historian Marbin Barahona, racial mixture enters blacks with whites and Amerindians occurred since the 1520s, due to the decline of the indigenous population, the Spanish immigration scanty and meager arrival of African slaves. The recovery of the hegemony of silver and indigo, the prohibition of non-indigenous groups live in Indian villages and the population growth recorded in the same century, miscegenation, primarily among Amerindian and Spanish, not only increased significantly at this time but concentrated in certain regions, especially in the current Francisco Morazán Department, and Chaluteca and Comayagua departments.\n\nThese departments attracted all kinds of mixed race (mestizo, mulatto, pardo, Ladino, etc.), unlike the indigenous concentration departments west. In 1775, lived in San Fernando de Omoa between 300 and 400 Africans and about 75 white families. They remained there until the early nineteenth century. So, in the late eighteenth century, the Spanish origin population would have been a minority compared to the racially mixed populations (\"Ladino\").\n\nThe Spanish Crown considered to Ladinos as those subjects of the Crown, originally non-Hispanics, and they learned the official languages of the empire or Vulgar Latin. In the Americas the Ladinos were often identified as those groups nonwhites who were Amerindian or Spanish - speaking (and most people who were not white or Amerindians in the Americas at the time were mestizos and Afro descendants), including possibilities such as \"black ladino,\" \"mulatto Ladin\", etc. According to Barahona, Ladinos were the majority of the population in 1800 (60% of the population).\n\nAccording to Linda Newton, if we use the census of 1804, the Indians were almost 50% of the population, making Ladinos in a group of between 40% and 45% of the population.\n\nBecause these days, most African - Hondurans were mulatto, sambo and browns. Although in the seventeenth century, had five categories in the census of Spanish America, \"white\", \"Indians\", \"mestizos\", \"black\" and \"mulatto\", already in the eighteenth century, the last three categories alone in a bind: \"Ladino\". During the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, the Spanish authorities considered Honduran even entire regions populated mostly as mulatto, sambo or brown. Such is the case of places like Olancho, Yoro, Colon and Atlántida, regions that eventually could have remixed with whites, Amerindians and mestizos.\n\nIt was in the early nineteenth century when slavery was abolished in Honduras and after 1820 the Afro-Hondurans were simply considered citizens and obtained the rights of any citizen to be excluded from the category of \"free blacks\" perhaps because the General Francisco Ferrera, Honduran politician who was part of the government of Honduras at the time, had ancestors mulattoes. Anyway, he decreed the expulsion of the country's Garifuna (but ultimately this is not carried out).\n\nThe Honduran historian, Antonio Canelas Diaz says that by the year 1870, was organized in the city of La Ceiba - the point where, emerged on a large scale banana production in Honduras - a company called \"New Orleans and Bay Island Company\" whose executives, imported the first black Creoles hired by fruit, since they were a labor\" [...] more qualified than the Honduran \"in banana cultivation, and who had previously worked in their respective nations that sector. Other black anglophone contingents arrived in Honduras with the arrival of black workers from Jamaica and other English-speaking islands arrived to work for the banana transnationals.\n\nIn 1931, the Alfonso Guillen Zelaya Honduran intellectual, raised the huge black presence on the north coast and the fear that if increased which what he called the \"black import\" Honduras ended up being a country of mulatto, however, already then, the country was mostly mestizo and indigenous population had been growing over the years.\n\nThe African Cultural legacy is evident in some places of Honduras. In Trujillo held certain dance parties, whose dancers carry specific masks. Both the dance and the masks are of Mandinka kangkurao origin. In addition to the Afro-Hondurans that descended of slaves imported by the Spanish, there others two Afro communities in Honduras, also present en Nicaragua y Guatemala: Creoles and Garifuna.\n\nBritish blacks or Creoles arrived with the introduction of African slaves to Jamaica, Cayman and Belize by the British during the late eighteenth and mid-nineteenth century, and by the immigration of black workers from Jamaica, Cayman island, Trinidad and Tobago and other English-speaking islands, arrived in the early twentieth century to work in transnational banana companies, workers in the construction of railways, dockworkers and in some cases \"scabs\", are concentrated mainly in the Bay Islands, especially the Roatan Island and Guanaja and some Caribbean coastal Honduran cities like Puerto Cortes, Tela and La Ceiba.\n\nIn the 2000s, some Creoles have migrated to the major cities of Tegucigalpa, San Pedro Sula and other urban centers in the interior. Like the Garifuna, many work as sailors and emigrated to the United States or Grand Cayman Island with which there are strong trade and cultural relations. Over time, blacks brought by the British were learning the customs and the English language, which managed to keep up today. Like white citizens, long blacks were not considered as Hondurans. Although the Bay Islands were eventually recognized as Honduran territory by the British in 1861, by the Treaty \"Wike-Cross\", in 1904, people still continued to believe that these lands were English possessions.\n\nEven in the 1930s, during the dictatorship of Gen. Tiburcio Carias (1933-1949), many islanders be Honduran nationals refused, and still clinging to their English traditions, practicing the Protestant religion and speaking only English. As shown, this process represents the first contingent of blacks settled in British Honduras, which was a result of the transfer of slaves from the British to the Bay Islands and some places of the Honduran coast between the late eighteenth and mid-century.\n\nOver time, the black English, originally came with the illusion of wealth and then return to their countries, they fell in Honduras and evidently were acquiring some Honduran customs, but in essence, they brought many manifestations of their lands, as religion, music, traditions and language in many cases, are still preserved and that makes therefore constitute a distinct ethnic group from the rest of the Honduran population, however, naturally feel today Hondurans and, in fact, a major instances by which have been \"integrating\" the Honduran has been through sport. Indeed, many black British have been in recent decades some major national athletes, especially in football clubs and the national team of Honduras, but also have excelled in other sports such as athletics, baseball and basketball. Finally, many black British, before the decline of the banana industry and the emergence of other productive sectors, were emigrating from the 1950s to the United States and enrolled as marine commercial fishing fleets throughout the Caribbean.\nCurrently, it is estimated that the number of black English or Creole is around 32,000 people.\n\nIn 1797, the British exported between 2,000 and 4,000 Black Caribs - mixture of Carib Indians and Black Africans - to the island of Roatán in Honduras, because they rebelled against them on the island St. Vincent. While the British ships that carried to Black Caribes to the island addressed her, the Spanish captured one of the British ships, bringing it to Trujillo, Honduras where the Garifunas were released. In addition, the Spanish captured others 1,700 Garifunas on the island of Roatan and they taken him to Trujillo where they lacked manpower, the Garifuna people were regarded as skillful for crops, so they went to work and prospered enough in Trujillo, some of these were recruited by the Spanish army where they served with distinction. \n\nMany Garifunas of Trujillo, especially due to the persecutions to which they were subjected by the Spanish authorities, emigrated and be scattered were them along the coasts of all the Central American mainland until Costa Rica (without reaching this place), More later, because to great resentment against the Spanish, others many Garifuna fled to the coast of Belize where already lived other Garifunas. It is this migration that is celebrated annually on November 19 as Garifuna Settlement Day, and is the largest celebration of this community. Some of them were involved in the civil wars of the time.\n\nDuring the twentieth century, some Garifuna have worked on American and British boats during World War II and traveled by the world. As a result of these trips, there are now Garifuna small communities in Los Angeles, New Orleans and New York City who send monthly remittances to Honduras worth $360,000.\n\nThe Garifuna culture is very strong, with great emphasis on music, dance and history. They have their own religion, the Dugu, consisting of a mixture of Catholicism and African and Caribbean beliefs.\n\nToday the Garifuna in Honduras struggling not to be deprived of their lands on the coast for tourism enterprises and try to keep their customs and culture at all costs. Garifuna music, Punta (tip), is a very rhythmic music, accompanied by fast-paced sensual dance with a lot of hip movement. This music has been released recently by bands mostly Hondurans, including the most famous: Kazabe, Garifuna Kids, Banda Blanca, Silver Star and los Roland. Especially the song Sopa de Caracol, of Kazabe has popularized this music internationally. Is difficult to determine the exact number of English-speaking black Garifunas because in the last decades the ethnic category has not been considered in national population censuses. The Garifunas have formed 47 communities in the departments of Cortes, Atlantis, Bay Islands, Colon and Gracias a Dios.\nOn April 12 of each year marks the day of Garifuna ethnic recalling his arrival in Honduras.\n\nIn March 2014, members of the Garifuna community made a formal complaint to the public prosecutor's office concerning the use of the term Afro when relating to members of the Garifuna community by the state of Honduras, claiming the term “afrohondureño” (Afro-Honduran in English) is incorrect because black people in Honduras were born there and are citizens of the country as much as members of other races. They claim such a term is being used to end the ethnic identity of the 46 communities which live along the Atlantic north coast.\n\n"}
{"id": "1604910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1604910", "title": "Akan people", "text": "Akan people\n\nThe Akan () are a meta-ethnicity predominantly speaking Central Tano languages and residing in the southern regions of the former Gold Coast region in what is today the nation of Ghana. Akans who historically migrated from Ghana also make up a plurality of the populace in the Ivory Coast. They also live in smaller numbers across borders in the countries of Benin, Togo and Burkina Faso. The Akan language (also known as \"Twi/Fante\") is a group of dialects within the Central Tano branch of the Potou–Tano subfamily of the Niger–Congo family.\n\nSubgroups of the Akan proper include:\n\nAkan culture can also be found in the New World. A number of Akans were taken as captives to the Americas. Roughly ten-percent of all slave ships embarked from the Gold Coast. The Akan's economy primary source of wealth was gold. However, as wars culminated in the region the capture and sale of Akan people into the slave trade peaked during the Fante and Ashanti conflicts (as both sides sold a large number of their captives) as prisoners of war. Akan conflicts led to a high number of military captives being sold into slavery known then as \"Coromantee\". These soldiers and other Akan captives were notorious for a large number of slave revolts and plantation resistance tactics. These captives were feared throughout the Americas so much so that we can see their legacy within groups such as the Maroons of the Caribbean and South America.\n\nAkan people are believed to have migrated to their current location from the Sahara desert and Sahel regions of Africa into the forest region around the 11th century, and many Akans tell their history as it started in the eastern region of Africa as this is where the ethnogenesis of the Akan as we know them today happened.\n\nOral traditions of the ruling Abrade (Aduana) Clan relate that they originated from ancient Ghana. They migrated from the north, they went through Egypt and settled in Nubia (Sudan). Around 500AD (5th century), due to the pressure exerted on Nubia by the Axumite kingdom of Ethiopia, Nubia was shattered, and the Akan people moved west and established small trading kingdoms. These kingdoms grew, and around 750AD the Ghana Empire was formed. The Empire lasted from 750AD to 1200AD and collapsed as a result of the introduction of Islam in the Western Sudan, and the zeal of the Muslims to impose their religion, their ancestors eventually left for Kong (i.e. present day Ivory Coast). From Kong they moved to Wam and then to Dormaa (both located in present-day Brong-Ahafo region). The movement from Kong was necessitated by the desire of the people to find suitable savannah conditions since they were not used to forest life. Around the 14th century, they moved from Dormaa South Eastwards to Twifo-Hemang, North West Cape Coast. This move was commercially motivated.\n\nThe kingdom of Bonoman (or Brong-Ahafo) was established as early as the 12th century. Between the 12th and 13th centuries a gold boom in the area brought wealth to numerous Akans.\n\nDuring different phases of the Kingdom of Bonoman, groups of Akans migrated out of the area to create numerous states based predominantly on gold mining and trading of cash crops. This brought wealth to numerous Akan states like Akwamu Empire, (1550-1650) and ultimately led to the rise of the most well known Akan empire, the Empire of Ashanti,(1700-1900), the most dominant of the Akan states.\nFrom the 15th century to the 19th century (and possibly even earlier) the Akan people dominated gold mining and trading in the region; from the 17th century on, they were among the most powerful groups in Africa.\n\nThe Akan goldfields, according to Peter Bakewell, were the \"highly auriferous area in the forest country between the Komoe and Volta rivers. The Akan goldfield was one of three principal goldfields in the region, along with the Bambuk goldfield, and the Bure goldfield.\n\nThis wealth in gold attracted European traders. Initially, the Europeans were Portuguese, soon joined by the Dutch and the British in their quest for Akan gold. Akan states waged wars on neighboring states in their geographic area to capture people and sell them as slaves to Europeans (Portuguese) who subsequently sold the enslaved people along with guns to Akan states in exchange for Akan gold. Akan gold was also used to purchase slaves from further up north via the Trans-Saharan route. The Akan purchased slaves in order to help clear the dense forests within Ashanti. About a third of the population of many Akan states were indentured servants (i.e. Non-Akan peoples). The Akans went from buyers of slaves to selling slaves as the dynamics in the Gold Coast and the New World changed. Thus, the Akan people played a role in supplying Europeans with indentured servants, who were later enslaved for the trans-Atlantic slave trade. In 2006 Ghana apologized to the descendants of slaves for the role some of its people may have played in the slave trade.\n\nAkan people, especially the Ashanti people, fought against European colonists and defeated them on several occasions to maintain autonomy. This occurred during the Anglo-Ashanti wars: the war of the Golden Stool, and other similar battles.\n\nBy the early 1900s all of Ghana was a colony or protectorate of the British while the lands in the Ivory Coast were under the French. On 6 March 1957, following the decolonization from the British under the leadership of Kwame Nkrumah, the Gold Coast was joined to British Togoland, and the Northern region, Upper East region and Upper West region of the Gold Coast to form Ghana. Ivory Coast gained independence on 7 August 1960.\n\nThe Akans consider themselves one nation. Akan means first, foremost, and references the enlightened and Civilized. While traditionally matrilineal; they are also united philosophically through 12 patrilineal spirit groups called the Ntoro or \"egya-bosom.\" Within this nation are branches based on many dialects, widest (and possibly the oldest) one used is Twi. Each branch subsequently holds a collection of states and stemming from city-states. The state or \"Aman\" is typically ruled by several kings known as \"Ahenfo\". The state is the basic unit of Akan polity. Several states and city-states can band together to form a Confederacy or an empire regardless of clan or abusua they belong to, while those outside of the Akan tribe or the abusua were usually conquered or annexed via war or mutual agreement. For example, the Guan state of Larteh and the Akyem state of Akropong joined together to form the Akwapim Kingdom to avoid the Akwamu, who the Guan deemed as oppressive. Under the State there are Divisions and under these Divisions are towns and villages.\n\nAkan kings are ranked according to their jurisdiction. The head of an inter-clan Confederacy is usually considered a King, as in the Kings of Ashanti, Akyem and the Akwapim. Under these are the heads of the constituent states who equates an Emperor that only heads an Empire (for e.g. Asante Empire and the Denkyira). In Asante's case, as an Empire the Asantehene reigned over non-Oyoko clan city states and ruled over the kings of those states as an Imperial head or Emperor (a hardly used but rightful equivalent term as Emperor literally mean \"king of kings\".) But right Next, there are divisional Chiefs, they are primarily arranged according to the five divisions of an Akan army. The Akan army or Asafo formation resembles a cross or an aeroplane. The battle formation has the Frontline, the West Flank, an East Flank, the main body and the Vanguard. There are therefore five divisional chiefs in each Paramountcy. These are followed in rank by the Kings of the city and then the Kings of the town and then king of the suburbs.\n\nThe Akan tribe mostly have seven Abusua (matrilineal clans) in each state. They do not have the same names in each state but each has an equivalent clan (for e.g. in Fante areas along the coast, the Asante clan of Oyoko is referred to as Dehyena or Yokofo). The clans are assigned States which they rule by virtue of their status as founders of that jurisdiction. The Ashanti Kingdom is ruled by the Oyoko Clan. However the Bretuo or Twidanfo(in Fante) as well as other clans rule States, Divisions, Towns and Villages within the Kingdom. The Fante-speaking tribes usually have the Asona Clan ruling most of their States(like Mankessim). Certain sub-clans or lineages have exclusive rights to some stools within Akanland such as the lineage of Afia Kobi in the Oyoko Clan who alone sit on the Golden Stool of Asante.\n\nThe Akans are traditionally a Matrilineal people of the African continent. Matrilineal inheritance makes it easier to trace the line of succession. Within each lineage or House are the branches. The chief of a family is called an \"Abusuapanin\" (or family-elder). Ranking above a family chief(a family's Abusuapanin) is the clan's chief(or clan's Abusuapanin). These branches are called Jaase or literally Kitchens. Each Kitchen takes its turn to present a candidate for the stool to the kingmakers of the lineage. Once accepted their candidate rules till death. This means until all the Jaase have presented their candidates they have to wait their turn.\n\nAkan Kings of whatever rank have other noblemen who serve them as Sub-Chiefs. These sub-chiefs do not have hereditary titles and therefore do not have black stools. In addition each King has a female co-ruler known as the Queenmother. The Queen-mother is more like a figurehead representing the King's or Emperor's eldest sister and hence the mother of the next King or Emperor, she could rule as a King if she wishes (e.g. queen-mothers mainly from the House of Asona clan: Nana Abena Boaa who ruled Offinso 1610-1640, Nana Afia Dokuaa who ruled Akyem Abuakwa 1817-1835, and Nana Yaa Asantewaa who ruled Edweso 1896-1900) . They present the candidate for consideration as King. An assistant king does not have a Queenmother as his title is not hereditary.\n\nA Prince or Daakyehene (lit \"Future-king\") is any of the members of the lineage eligible to sit on a stool. However, not all the noblemen or noblewomen are Princes as some may be ineligible. A prince is not necessarily the son of a King but rather the former King's nephew on the mother's side. As such nobles strive to achieve the position of prince in their families or for their children.\n\nA sub-chief does not however need to be a nobleman. He only has to be suitable for the position he is to occupy. Some sub-chieftaincy positions can be abolished at will. They include the heads of the ruling house or Mankrado, the Linquist, the Chief Kingmaker or Jaasehene, the Supi or General of the Army, the Captains of the Army or Asafohene among others.\n\nThe way Akans ruled their nation fascinated the tribes of other West African nations and as the Akans conquered or formed alliances with these nations parts of it was transmitted to them. The British particularly felt the Akan system was highly efficient and tried to establish it throughout their dominions in West Africa using the Indirect Rule System. The Ewes and the Ga-Adangmes with their close affinity to the Akans have modified certain aspects of it to fit their societies.\n\nIn Ghana and other modern states where the Akan tribe is located the Kings, Assistant Kings, Princes and Noblemen of the Akans serve mostly a symbolic role. Modern politics has side-lined them in national politics although it is common to find that an elected or appointed official to be of Akan royalty. And, especially in the villages and poor areas, traditional Kings are still very important for organizing development, social services and keeping peace. Some Kings have decided to push ahead with the leadership of their Kingdoms and States in a non-political fashion. The Asantehene and Okyehene have emphasized Education and Environmental Sustainability respectively. Others push the national government and its agents to fulfill promises to their people.\n\nIn modern Ghana a quasi-legislative/judicial body known as the House of \"Chiefs\"(a colonial term to belittle African Kings because of the racist belief to not equate an African king with a European king in rank) has been established to oversee \"chieftaincy\" and the Government of Ghana as the British Government once did certifies the Chiefs and gazettes them. Several Akan Kings sit at the various levels of the National House of \"Chiefs\". Each Paramountcy has a Traditional Council, then there is the Regional House of \"Chiefs\" and lastly the National House of \"Chiefs\". Akan Kings who once warred with each other and Kings of other nations within Ghana now sit with them to build peace and advocate development for their nations.\n\nThe Akan people comprise the following subgroups: Ashanti (the largest Akan ethnic group), Abinghi, Abbe, Abidji, Aboure, Adjukru, Ahafo, Ahanta, Akuapem, Akwamu, Akye, Akyem, Alladian, Anyi, Aowin, Assin, Attie, Avatime, Avikam, Baoulé, Abron, Chokosi, Denkyira, Ehotile, Evalue, Fante (the second largest Akan ethnic group), Kwahu, M'Bato, Nzema, Sefwi, Tchaman, Twifu and Wassa.\n\nThe identity of an Akan nation or meta-ethnicity is expressed by the term \"Akanman\".\nThe Akan word \"ɔman\" (\"plural Aman\") which forms the second element in this expression has a meaning much of \"community, town; nation, state\". \"ɔman/Aman\" has been translated as \"Akanland\" \".\n\nAkan refers to the language of the Akan ethno-linguistic group and the Akan language in which was and is the most widely spoken and used indigenous language on the Ashantiland Peninsula. Akan is officially recognized for literacy on the Ashantiland Peninsula, at the primary and elementary educational stage (Primary 1–3) K–12 (education) level, and studied at university as a bachelor's degree or master's degree program. The Akan language spoken as the predominant language in the Western, Central, Ashanti, Eastern, Brong Ahafo regions of the Ashantiland Peninsula. A language with some Akan influence called Ndyuka is also spoken in South America (Suriname and French Guiana), with the Akan language coming to these South American and Caribbean places through the trans-Atlantic slave trade and Akan names and folktales are still used in these South American and Caribbean countries(another example can be seen in the Maroons of Jamaica and their influence with Akan culture and loanwords). With the present state of technology, one can listen to live radio broadcasts in Akan from numerous radio stations and receive mass media and public broadcasts in Akan from numerous multimedia and media broadcasting. Akan is studied in major universities in North America and United States, including Ohio University, Ohio State University, University of Wisconsin–Madison, Harvard University, Boston University, Indiana University, University of Michigan, and the University of Florida. The Akan language has been a regular language of study in the annual Summer Cooperative African Languages Institute (SCALI) program and the Akan language is regulated and administered by the Akan Orthography Committee (AOC).\n\nSome of Akan's characteristic features include tone, vowel harmony and nasalization.\n\nAkan culture is one of the traditional matrilineal cultures of Africa. Akan art is wide-ranging and renowned, especially for the tradition of crafting bronze goldweights, using the lost-wax casting method. The Akan culture reached South America, Caribbean, and North America.\n\nSome of their most important mythological stories are called \"anansesem\", literally meaning \"the spider story\", but in a figurative sense also meaning \"traveler's tales\". These \"spider stories\" are sometimes also referred to as \"nyankomsem\": \"words of a sky god\". The stories generally, but not always, revolve around Kwaku Ananse, a trickster spirit, often depicted as a spider, human, or a combination thereof.\n\nElements of Akan culture also include, but are not limited to: Akan art, kente cloth, Akan Calendar, Akan Chieftaincy, Akan goldweights and Akan religion\n\nThese are the basic concepts of Akan philosophy and inheritance:\n\n\nMany but not all of the Akan still practice their traditional matrilineal customs, living in their traditional extended family households. The traditional Akan economic and political organization is based on matrilineal \"lineages\", which are the basis of inheritance and succession. A \"lineage\" is defined as all those related by matrilineal descent from a particular ancestress. Several lineages are grouped into a political unit headed by a council of elders, each of whom is the elected head of a lineage – which itself may include multiple extended-family households.\n\nPublic offices are thus vested in the lineage, as are land tenure and other lineage property. In other words, lineage property is inherited only by matrilineal kin. Each lineage controls the lineage land farmed by its members, functions together in the veneration of its ancestors, supervises marriages of its members, and settles internal disputes among its members.\n\nThe political units above are likewise grouped (into traditionally seven) but as of today eight larger groups called \"abusua\": Aduana, Agona, Asakyiri, Asenie, Asona, Bretuo, Ekuona and Oyoko. The members of each such \"abusua\" are united by their belief that they are all descended from the same ancient ancestress – so marriage between members of the same group (or \"abusua\") is forbidden, a taboo on marriage. One inherits, or is a lifelong member of, the lineage, the political unit and the \"abusua\" of one's mother, regardless of one's gender or marriage. Members and their spouses thus belong to different \"abusuas\", with mother and children living and working in one household, but their husband/father living and working in a different household.\n\nAccording to one source of information about the Akan, \"A man is strongly related to his mother's brother (wɔfa) but only weakly related to his father's brother. This must be viewed in the context of a polygamous society in which the mother/child bond is likely to be much stronger than the father/child bond. As a result, in inheritance, a man's nephew (his sister's son) (wɔfase) will have priority over his own son. Uncle-nephew relationships therefore assume a dominant position.\"\n\n\"The principles governing inheritance, generation and age – that is to say, men come before women and seniors before juniors.\"... When a woman's brothers are available, a consideration of generational seniority stipulates that the line of brothers be exhausted before the right to inherit lineage property passes down to the next senior genealogical generation of sisters' sons. Finally, \"it is when all possible male heirs have been exhausted that the females\" may inherit.\n\nCertain other aspects of the Akan culture are determined patrilineally rather than matrilineally. There are ancestrally 12 patrilineal \"Ntoro\" (spirit) groups, and everyone belongs to his or her father's \"Ntoro\" group, but not to his family lineage and \"abusua\". Each \"Ntoro\" group has its own surnames, taboos, ritual purifications and forms of etiquette. A person thus inherits one's \"Ntoro\" from one's father, but does not belong to his family.\n\nA recent (2001) book provides an update on the Akan, stating that some families are changing from the above \"abusua\" structure to the nuclear family. Housing, childcare, education, daily work, and elder care etc. are then handled by that individual family, rather than by the \"abusua\" or clan, especially in the city. The above taboo on marriage within one's \"abusua\" is sometimes ignored, but \"clan membership\" is still important, with many people still living in the \"abusua\" framework presented above.\n\nElements of Akan culture can generally be seen in many geographic areas.\nSpecific elements of Akan culture are especially seen in neighboring African peoples and some Central African populations. Akan culture has also been historically important in the New World, where Akan names are or were common, for example among the Coromantins of Jamaica, South and North America, Barbados, and the descendants of the Akwamu in St. John. Kofi, the leader of the 1763 slave revolt and violent revolt against the Dutch people in Guyana was an Akan.\n\n\n<div style=\"text-align:center\">\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30209524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30209524", "title": "Al-Mansur al-Qasim al-Iyyani", "text": "Al-Mansur al-Qasim al-Iyyani\n\nAl-Mansur al-Qasim al-Iyyani (922? – July 11, 1003) was an imam of the Zaidi state in Yemen who briefly reestablished a comprehensive Zaidi realm in the years 999–1002.\n\nAl-Qasim bin Ali was a Sayyid from Tarj in the Khath'am region (present-day south-western Saudi Arabia). His year of birth is (doubtfully) given as 922 or 928. He was a great-great-grandson of al-Qasim ar-Rassi (d. 860), a key figure in the emerging of the Zaydiyyah brand of Shi'a Islam. He received a reputation for religious learning from early age. For decades, Zaidi figures from Yemen visited him and asked him to intervene in the Yemeni highland. After the death of the Zaidi imam an-Nasir Ahmad in 934, political conditions had been unstable in the Zaydiyyah-influenced areas. In 993, al-Qasim proclaimed the imamate in Tihamah, but his movement was defeated in the next year by the governor of Mecca. Still, the Fatimid caliph treated al-Qasim with respect and courtesy.\n\nAl-Qasim invaded Yemen in 997 or 998 and appropriated Sa'dah, the traditional capital of the Zaydiyyah domain. As imam he was known as al-Mansur a-Qasim. He subsequently returned to Tarj, and his power in Yemen immediately crumbled. He then returned again, permanently, in 999. This time he was able to extend his power over an extensive area from Bilad Khath to San'a. However, he could not secure an outlet to the sea, and the lowland of Yemen was subjected to the Ziyadid dynasty in Zabid. Al-Mansur al-Qasim resided in Iyyan (Ayyan), south-east of Sad'ah, and therefore became known as al-Iyyani. He called on certain tribes to perform military service. One of his adherents composed a poem which emphasized the enthusiastic response among the tribesmen, and the role of the imam as a restorer: \"Rise and lead the people, and send them with justice; remove darkness and ignorance from them. Restore the religion of your ancestor after it had disappeared, and inflict death upon your opponents.\"\n\nHis position was nevertheless precarious, since other Rassids (descendants of al-Qasim ar-Rassi) claimed power over the Zaydiyyah community. After his failure to subdue the recalcitrant tribesmen of Banu Harith in Najran, he faced opposition from al-Malih Ibrahim and the former imam ad-Da'i Yusuf. The governor in Dhamar, az-Zaidi, rebelled and captured the imam's son Ja'far. A reconciliation took place in 1002. Az-Zaidi offered al-Mansur al-Qasim al-Iyyani to retain power over Bakil and Wada. The imam, however, preferred to retire from governance altogether. He lived a private life in Madhab and Iyyan where he wrote a text to his defence. He died in the following year in Iyyan. As a religious scholar, he followed al-Qasim ar-Rassi and al-Hadi ila'l-Haqq Yahya in the essentials, although he was also accused of theological deviations. After his death, the imamate was contested between his son al-Mahdi al-Husayn and the old imam ad-Da'i Yusuf.\n\n"}
{"id": "1362819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1362819", "title": "Angela Atwood", "text": "Angela Atwood\n\nAngela DeAngelis \"General Gelina\" Atwood (February 6, 1949 – May 17, 1974) was a founding member of the Symbionese Liberation Army (SLA), an American terrorist group which kidnapped Patricia Hearst and robbed banks. She died with five other SLA members in a nationally televised shootout with the Los Angeles Police Department.\n\nAngela DeAngelis grew up in the small New Jersey suburb of North Haledon near Paterson, New Jersey. The daughter of a local Teamsters official, DeAngelis was active in many student leadership groups and was captain of the cheerleading squad. She starred in many school musicals and quietly tutored and befriended classmates others ignored. She was voted Most School Spirit by her peers while attending Manchester Regional High School. At the Indiana University she met leftwing activist, theatre student and future husband Gary Atwood. While at school she sang in the Kappa Pickers (a musical group in the Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority) with Jane Pauley, was involved in theater, and majored in education. She helped fellow theater student Kevin Kline organize and run a guerrilla theatre group in town. She married Gary Atwood while still an undergraduate, and they befriended William Harris, another Indiana University actor, and his wife Emily Harris. She graduated in 1970 and began student teaching in Indianapolis.\n\nThe Atwoods moved to San Francisco, where Angela became friends with Kathleen Soliah (now known as Sara Jane Olson). The two women acted together in a local production of Henrik Ibsen's \"Hedda Gabler\" and Angela got Kathy a job waiting tables. They quit the job together when the manager told them to wear revealing outfits to build up the lunch crowd. Angela and Gary Atwood separated in June 1973. Atwood moved in with the Harrises in early December 1973. She then joined the Symbionese Liberation Army (SLA) along with the Harrises.\nShe was described as well dressed, with a preference for hippie attire, particularly Indian silk shirts and batik. Atwood liked such feminine accessories as earrings, jewelry, and rings. A friend described her as \"the prima donna of the whole thing\", and likened her to the woman depicted by Bob Dylan in \"Just Like A Woman\".\n\nAtwood (speaking as \"Gelina\") was often the voice of the SLA, in the form of tape-recorded press releases. In Patricia Hearst's account of her time with the SLA, she writes that Gelina would spend hours, and sometimes days, perfecting communiques.\n\nSLA members held an anti-bourgeois ideology of popular rule partly based on the idea that the most oppressed members of society, who were often blacks, must be the ones to lead a revolution against The Establishment. Patty Hearst testified that Atwood, William Harris, and Nancy Ling Perry were given to bemoaning their white skin and wishing they were black. According to Hearst's testimony, SLA members also envied persons like their black leader Field Marshal Cinque (pronounced \"sin-q\") (Donald DeFreeze), who had served time in prison. This partly explained their allegiance to Cinque. Atwood, however, many times disagreed with his directives, as when she argued against his issuing a death warrant for two imprisoned SLA members.\n\nAtwood was assigned the task of surveillance in the potential kidnapping of John E. Countryman, former chairman of the board of Del Monte Corporation. The surveillance plan gave Countryman's age as 70. Atwood was apparently unaware that Mr. Countryman had died in July 1972 at the age of 69.\n\nAtwood used the name Anne Lindberg when she visited inmate James Harold (\"Doc\") Holiday on January 10, 1974. This encounter alerted Holiday to the capture of Remiro and Russ Little, who were both linked through strong circumstantial evidence to the murder of Marcus Foster, Superintendent of the Oakland Unified School District in Oakland, California. They were arrested following a shootout with policemen in Concord, California. Quickly after Atwood's approach of Holiday, she fled the Oakland, California home with the Harrises. They left behind clothes, a stereo, personal papers, and three pistol boxes.\n\nIn her trial for armed robbery Patricia Campbell Hearst testified that she was kidnapped from her Berkeley, California apartment by Atwood, Donald DeFreeze, and William Harris, on the night of February 4, 1974.\n\nHearst's insistence that she was forced by the SLA to make a series of self-incriminating statements was supported by Dr. Margaret Thaler-Singer, a UC-Berkeley clinical psychologist. As an expert on speech patterns who studied the tapes released by the SLA, Thaler-Singer stated that\nthe speech patterns did not fit the style of Hearst. Rather they resembled the styles of Atwood and Emily Harris.\n\nAtwood's voice is heard on a taped message of March 9, 1974, used in negotiations with Randolph Hearst for the return of Patty Hearst. Atwood assumed the voice of a black woman and said, \"The dream - and indeed it is a dream - of [many on the Left] is that the enemy corporate state will willingly give the stolen riches of the earth back to the people and that this will be accomplished through compromising talk and empty words . . . to this, our bullets scream loudly. The enemy's bloodthirsty greed will be destroyed by the growing spirit of the people and their thirst for freedom. We call upon the people to judge for themselves whether our tactics of waging struggle are correct or incorrect in fighting the enemy by any means necessary.\"\n\nProsecution witness Dr. Joel Fort identified Atwood, Perry, and Willie Wolfe as the SLA members Hearst developed the \"most affectionate bonds\" with.\n\nAtwood, along with five other founding members of the SLA, including Donald DeFreeze, was killed in Los Angeles on May 17, 1974, in a shootout with police that was broadcast live on television. Atwood died of burns and smoke inhalation when the SLA's safehouse caught fire during the gun battle and burned to the ground. It was Atwood's death that prompted Kathleen Soliah to hold a memorial service for her and the other deceased members of the SLA; Soliah and a few others became part of the \"second team\", giving the SLA life for about two more years.\n\nAtwood was eulogized by the Reverend Joseph Citro, a 25-year-old priest, at her funeral mass in Prospect Park, New Jersey on May 26, 1974. They grew up blocks from each other and knew each other through the local Catholic Youth Organization. In an interview the day after the mass, Citro stated that \"we must enable these young people to make basic changes in society or more girls like Angela will have to suffer.\" Atwood is buried in Holy Sepulchre Cemetery in Totowa, New Jersey.\n\n"}
{"id": "3625869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3625869", "title": "Bashing (pejorative)", "text": "Bashing (pejorative)\n\nBashing is a harsh, gratuitous, prejudicial attack on a person, group, or subject. Literally, bashing is a term meaning to hit or assault, but when it is used as a suffix, or in conjunction with a noun indicating the subject being attacked, it is normally used to imply that the act is motivated by bigotry.\nThe term is also used metaphorically, to describe verbal or critical assaults. Topics which attract bashing tend to be highly partisan and personally sensitive topics for the bashers, the victims, or both. Common areas include religion, nationality, sexuality, and politics.\n\nPhysical bashing is differentiated from regular assault because it is a motivated assault, which may be considered a hate crime. In relation to non-physical bashing, the term is used to imply that a verbal or critical attack is similarly unacceptable and similarly prejudicial. Use of the term in this manner is an abusive ad hominem action, used to denounce the attack and admonish the attackers by comparing them to perpetrators of physical bashing.\n\nKaren Franklin, in her paper \"Psychosocial motivations of hate crimes perpetrators\" identifies the following motivations for bashing: socially instilled prejudice or partisan conflict; the perception that the bashing subject is in some way contrary to, or in offense to, an underlying ideology; group or peer influence.\n\nOne of the more common uses of the term \"bashing\" is to describe assault or vilification of people perceived to be homosexual. Gay-bashing is related to homophobia and religious objections to homosexuality.\n\nIn cases of non-physical bashing, the term is normally used with the intention of having a pejorative effect on the identified bashers by comparing them to perpetrators of criminal assaults. Sometimes this label is applied to criticisms that are not particularly vehement nor even inappropriate. In these cases, the term can be seen to be applied purely for partisan benefit. The use of the term within this context is most common in editorial or personal commentary. These terms are used to imply that the criticism of these groups or individuals is excessive, too frequent, uncompromising, or inappropriate. Since politics is inherently partisan, the term bashing is frequently used to cast negative aspersions on critics for political gain.\n\nFans of different artistic works often accuse critics, who may be other fans, of bashing the subject or individuals upon which the fandom is centered. A common example of this on the internet is \"Lucas bashing\", where the term is used to decry criticism of Star Wars or George Lucas personally. In this case, again the motivations include partisan conflict (for or against an aspect of an artistic work); an offense to an underlying ideology (nostalgic attachment to, or immersion in, an artistic genre); and the group influence of other fans and discussion forums. There is also \"character bashing\", which happens when a part of the fandom openly criticises one or more characters in an artistic work, or even real people from media industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "1263929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1263929", "title": "Belgians", "text": "Belgians\n\nBelgians (, , ) are people identified with the Kingdom of Belgium, a federal state in Western Europe. As Belgium is a multinational state, this connection may be residential, legal, historical, or cultural rather than ethnic. The majority of Belgians, however, belong to two distinct ethnic groups or \"communities\" ( or ) native to the country, i.e. its historical regions: Flemings in Flanders, who speak Dutch and Walloons in Wallonia who speak French or Walloon. There is also a substantial Belgian diaspora, which has settled primarily in the United States, Canada, France and Netherlands.\n\nThe 1830 revolution led to the establishment of an independent country under a provisional government and a national congress. The name \"Belgium\" was adopted for the country, the word being derived from \"Gallia Belgica\", a Roman province in the northernmost part of Gaul that, before Roman invasion in 100 BC, was inhabited by the \"Belgae\", a mix of Celtic and Germanic peoples.\n\nThe Latin name was revived in 1790 by the short-lived United Belgian States which was created after a revolution against Austrian rule took place in 1789. Since no adjective equivalent to \"Belgian\" existed at the time, the French noun \"Belgique\" (or \"Belgium\") was adopted as both noun and adjective; a phenomenon borrowed from Latin which was still commonly used during the period. From the sixteenth century, the Low Countries\" or \"Netherlands\", were referred to as 'Belgica' in Latin, as was the Dutch Republic.\n\nBelgians are primarily a nationality or citizen group, by \"jus soli\" (Latin: right of the soil), also known as birthright citizenship, and are not a homogeneous ethnic group. Belgians are made up of two main linguistic and ethnic groups; the Dutch-speakers (called the Flemish) and the French-speakers (mostly Walloons), as well as a third tiny but constitutionally recognized group from two small German-speaking areas. These sometimes competing ethnic and linguistic priorities are governed by constitutionally designated \"regions or communities\", depending on the constitutional realm of the topic, a complex and uniquely Belgian political construct. Since many Belgians are at least bilingual, or even trilingual, it is common for business, social and family networks to include members of the various ethnic groups composing Belgium.\n\nThe Brussels-Capital Region occupies a unique political and cultural position since geographically and linguistically it is a bilingual enclave within the unilingual Flemish Region. Since the founding of the Kingdom of Belgium in 1830, the city of Brussels has transformed from being almost entirely Dutch-speaking into a multilingual city with French as the majority language and \"lingua franca\", a process that has been labelled the Frenchification of Brussels\".\n\nSince the independence of Belgium in 1830, the constitutional title of the Belgian head of state is the \"King of the Belgians\" rather than the \"King of Belgium\".\n\nWithin Belgium the Flemish, about 60% of the population, form a clearly distinguishable group, set apart by their language and customs. However, when compared to the Netherlands most of these cultural and linguistic boundaries quickly fade, as the Flemish share the same language, similar or identical customs and (though only with the southern part of today's Netherlands) traditional religion with the Dutch.\n\nHowever, the popular perception of being a single polity varies greatly, depending on subject matter, locality and personal background. Generally, Flemings will seldom identify themselves as being Dutch and vice versa, especially on a national level.\n\nWalloons are a French-speaking people who live in Belgium, principally in Wallonia. Walloons are a distinctive community within Belgium, important historical and anthropological criteria (religion, language, traditions, folklore) bind Walloons to the French people. More generally, the term also refers to the inhabitants of the Walloon Region. They may speak regional languages such as \"Walloon\" (with \"Picard\" in the West and Lorrain in the South).\n\nThough roughly three-quarters of Belgium's French speakers live in Wallonia, it is important to note that French-speaking residents of Brussels tend not to identify as Walloons.\n\nThe German-speaking Community of Belgium is one of the three constitutionally recognized federal communities of Belgium. Covering an area of less than 1,000 km within the province of Liège in Wallonia, it includes nine of the eleven municipalities of the so-called East Cantons and the local population numbers over 73,000 — less than 1% of the national total. Bordering the Netherlands, Germany and Luxembourg, the area has its own parliament and government at Eupen.\n\nThe German-speaking community is composed of the German-speaking parts of the lands that were annexed in 1920 from Germany. In addition, in contemporary Belgium there are also some other German-speaking areas that belonged to Belgium even before 1920, but they are not currently considered officially part of the German-speaking community in Belgium: Bleiberg-Welkenraat-Baelen in Northeastern province of Liège and Arelerland (city of Arlon and some of its nearby villages in Southeastern province of Belgian Luxembourg). However, in these localities, the German language is highly endangered due to the adoption of French.\n\nRoman Catholicism has traditionally been Belgium's majority religion, with approximately 65% of the Belgians declaring themselves to be Catholics. However, by 2004, nationwide Sunday church attendance was only about 4 to 8% (9% for Flanders only). A 2006 inquiry in Flanders, long considered more religious than the Brussels or Wallonia regions in Belgium, showed 55% of its inhabitants calling themselves religious, while 36% said that they believed that God created the world.\n\nBelgium had a population of 10,839,905 people on 1 January 2010, an increase of 601,000 in comparison to 2000 (10,239,085 inhabitants). Between 1990 (9,947,782 inhabitants) and 2000 the increase was only 291,000. The population of Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels on 1 January 2010 was 6,251,983 (57.7%), 3,498,384 (32.3%) and 1,089,538 (10.1%), respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "11941443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11941443", "title": "Bolango language", "text": "Bolango language\n\nBolango is a Philippine language spoken in North-eastern Sulawesi Indonesia. In 1981 it was spoken by some 20.000 people, 5000 in Bolango and 15.000 in Atinggola.\n"}
{"id": "49658770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49658770", "title": "City Harvest Church Criminal Breach of Trust Case", "text": "City Harvest Church Criminal Breach of Trust Case\n\nThe City Harvest Church Criminal Breach of Trust (CBT) Case is the biggest CBT case in Singapore since the beginning of the 21st century. The case involves the church's founders, especially Kong Hee, and a sum of S$50 million.\n\nOn 31 May 2010, the Office of the Commissioner of Charities (COC) and the Commercial Affairs Department (CAD) of the Singapore Police announced in a joint press statement that 17 individuals linked to the City Harvest Church, including church founder Pastor Kong Hee and his deputy, Pastor Tan Ye Peng, were under investigation after complaints alleging the misuse of church funds. The police launched investigations into possible falsification of accounts and criminal breach of trust amounting to millions of dollars which dated back a number of years.\n\nThe investigation followed requests by church members for the COC to review the church's constitution, which denied ordinary members the chance to attend general meetings, or be privy to its annual reports and financial statements. Some members felt that the church board had utilised the church's building fund and committed it to \"future liabilities\" without consulting members at its latest AGM.\n\nIn June 2012, Kong Hee and four other members of the church were arrested by the Commercial Affairs Department of the Singapore Police Force. Charges were filed against the five individuals and who were released on $500,000 bail each. In July, charges were brought on one additional former finance director with the last of the pre-trial conferences set for 22 November. When the trial started on 15 May 2012, some Christians expressed concern that the slow pace of the trial may have a negative impact on public opinion.\n\nOn the same day as the initial arrests, the COC released a press statement detailing the results of its inquiry stating there were misconduct and mismanagement in the administration of the charity. There were irregularities of at least $23 million in the charity's funds, which were used to finance Sun Ho's secular music career. There was also a concerted effort to conceal this movement of funds from stakeholders. Eight members including the five arrested such as Chew Eng Han and Sharon Tan, Sun Ho and two others were suspended from their duties with the charity while the COC considered further course of action under the Charities Act. $24 million was taken from church building funds and put into sham investment bonds in Ho's artist management firm Xtron Productions and glass maker Firna. After church auditors raised questions about the bond investments, an additional $26.6 million was moved around to \"create the false appearance that the purported sham bond investments had been redeemed\" in what the accounting industry calls \"round-tripping\"\n. The church stood by the five accused, stated that money for the investment bonds were returned to the church in full, with interest, and it did not lose any funds in the transactions, indicating that the accused \"always put God and CHC first.\"\nRevelations were made about a multi-purpose account (MPA) involving Kong Hee and his wife Sun Ho set up in 2006 and closed in 2010, made up of \"love gifts\" worth $2,888,334 from church members as well as $359,530 from an Indonesian businessman Wahju Hanafi. The Commissioner of Charities warned the church and its employees against raising funds for legal expenses; the church was also restricted from paying the legal fees of the 6 accused. The chief prosecution led by Mavis Chionh noted the absence of a crucial board meeting between August and September 2008 as being without any meeting minutes, and also charged that Wahju Hanafi was the other beneficiary of funds allegedly diverted from City Harvest Church to further Sun Ho's music career.\n\nIn October 2015, all six accused were found guilty of all criminal breach of trust charges pertaining to 409 read with section 109 of the Penal Code, Chapter 224. Falsification of Accounts under section 477A of the Penal Code, Chapter 224. Alongside the conviction, other pastors and Christians began speaking out regarding the trial which was the second longest in Singapore history with the trial stretching over 140 days.\n\nSerina Wee, former finance manager of CHC, was found guilty of 6 counts of criminal breach of trust and 4 counts of falsifying the church's accounts. The prosecutor labelled her as the most inextricably involved in the conspiracy due to her role as administrator of the Crossover project.\n\nSharon Tan, former finance manager of CHC, was found guilty of 3 counts of criminal breach of trust and 4 counts of falsifying the church's accounts. The prosecutor noted her defense was deeply cynical and self-seriving, attempting to minimise her involvement in the offences.\n\nChew Eng Han, CHC board member, was found guilty of 6 counts of criminal breach of trust and 4 counts of falsifying church accounts. The prosecutor noted that his defense was incoherent while lacking credibility.\n\nTan Ye Peng, founding member and senior pastor of CHC, was found guilty of 6 counts of criminal breach of trust and 4 counts of falsifying the church's accounts.\n\nJohn Lam, former secretary of the church's management board, was found guilty of 3 counts of criminal breach of trust. The prosecutor noted that he was the inside man in church governance and oversaw bodies that prevented the sham investment bonds from being discovered.\n\nKong Hee, senior pastor and founder of the church, was found guilty of 3 counts of criminal breach of trust. The prosecutor noted that he was had not maintained a consistent position on critical factual issues.\n\nThe 6 accused, and the Prosecution, have all filed appeals on their conviction, with the prosecution calling the current sentences \"manifestly inadequate\". The appeals will be heard over 5 days, Sep 19 to Sep 23 of 2016.\n\nIn July 2016, Chew filed a new police report against 8 members of the church (including Kong Hee and Sun Ho). Chew alleged that this was for \"\"fraudulent misrepresentation of vital facts about the church which induced me and other members to give our donations\", and also for use of funds for purposes other than what was represented to the members of the church.\"\n\nOn 7 April 2017, the outcome of the appeal against the conviction and sentences of the six accused resulted in the length of their jail term approximately halved. On 1 February 2018, the prosecutors' appeal to reinstate the original jail terms was dismissed by the Court of Appeal as the High Court had set the jail terms based on wrong interpretation of the meaning of \"agent\" in section 409 of the Penal Code hence they were charged under the 'less serious' section 406 instead.\n\nSerina Wee from 5 years to 2 years and 6 months;\n\nSharon Tan from 21 months to 7 months;\n\nChew Eng Han from 6 years to 3 years and 4 months;\n\nTan Ye Peng from 5 years 6 months to 3 years and 2 months;\n\nJohn Lam from 3 years to 1 year 6 months;\n\nKong Hee from 8 years to 3 years and 6 months.\n\nWith the exception of Chew, 5 of the group began their sentences on April 21, 2017. Chew, who had been on bail pending the appeal, was been granted permission by the court to begin his sentence on February 22, 2018. On 21st February a day before Chew was due to start his sentence he was arrested for trying to flee Singapore unlawfully and was subsequently charged by the police.Meanwhile Sharon Tan completed her sentence and was released from jail. Chew started his jail term on 1st of March 2018, while the Malaysian boatman charged with abetting his escape is slapped with a jail term of 6 months.\n\nThe S$50 million taken from the mega-church’s coffers is the largest amount of charity funds ever misappropriated in Singapore.\n"}
{"id": "48757269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48757269", "title": "December 2015 Moscow bus stop attack", "text": "December 2015 Moscow bus stop attack\n\nOn the evening of December 7th, 2015, a bus stop in central Moscow, Russia was attacked by an unknown perpetrator who threw a homemade bomb into the bus-stop shelter, injuring at least 3 woman. Two of the women were taken to hospital, and the other was treated at the scene.\nThe event happened at the bus-stop shelter on Pokrovka Street in central Moscow. The police responded immediately and closed the street to the public. Moscow police spokesman Andrey Galiakberov confirmed the incident, adding that police are looking into the matter.\n"}
{"id": "301390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301390", "title": "Dogon people", "text": "Dogon people\n\nThe Dogon are an ethnic group living in the central plateau region of Mali, in West Africa, south of the Niger bend, near the city of Bandiagara and in Burkina Faso. The population numbers between 400,000 and 800,000. They speak the Dogon languages, which are considered to constitute an independent branch of the Niger–Congo language family.\n\nThe Dogon are best known for their religious traditions, their mask dances, wooden sculpture and their architecture. The past century has seen significant changes in the social organisation, material culture and beliefs of the Dogon, partly because Dogon country is one of Mali's major tourist attractions.\nThe principal Dogon area is bisected by the Bandiagara Escarpment, a sandstone cliff of up to 500 m (1,640.42 ft) high, stretching about 150 km (90 miles). To the southeast of the cliff, the sandy Séno-Gondo Plains are found, and northwest of the cliff are the Bandiagara Highlands. Historically, Dogon villages were established in the Bandiagara area in consequence of the Dogon people's collective refusal to convert to Islam a thousand years ago.\n\nDogon insecurity in the face of these historical pressures caused them to locate their villages in defensible positions along the walls of the escarpment. The other factor influencing their choice of settlement location is water. The Niger River is nearby and in the sandstone rock, a rivulet runs at the foot of the cliff at the lowest point of the area during the wet season.\n\nAmong the Dogon, several oral traditions have been recorded as to their origin. One relates to their coming from Mande, located to the southwest of the Bandiagara escarpment near Bamako. According to this oral tradition, the first Dogon settlement was established in the extreme southwest of the escarpment at Kani-Na.\nArchaeological and ethnoarchaeological studies in the Dogon region were especially revealing about the settlement and environmental history, and about social practices and technologies in this area over several thousands of years.\nOver time, the Dogon moved north along the escarpment, arriving in the Sanga region in the 15th century. Other oral histories place the origin of the Dogon to the west beyond the river Niger, or tell of the Dogon coming from the east. It is likely that the Dogon of today combine several groups of diverse origin who migrated to escape Islamization.\n\nIt is often difficult to distinguish between pre-Muslim practices and later practices, though Islamic law classified them and many other ethnicities of the region, (Mossi, Gurma, Bobo, Busa and the Yoruba) as being within the non-canon dar al-harb and consequently fair game for slave raids organized by merchants. As the growth of cities increased, the demand for slaves across the region of West Africa also increased. The historical pattern has included the murder of indigenous males by Islamic raiders and enslavement of women and children.\n\nDogon art is primarily sculpture. Dogon art revolves around religious values, ideals, and freedoms (Laude, 19). Dogon sculptures are not made to be seen publicly, and are commonly hidden from the public eye within the houses of families, sanctuaries, or kept with the Hogon (Laude, 20). The importance of secrecy is due to the symbolic meaning behind the pieces and the process by which they are made.\n\nThemes found throughout Dogon sculpture consist of figures with raised arms, superimposed bearded figures, horsemen, stools with caryatids, women with children, figures covering their faces, women grinding pearl millet, women bearing vessels on their heads, donkeys bearing cups, musicians, dogs, quadruped-shaped troughs or benches, figures bending from the waist, mirror-images, aproned figures, and standing figures (Laude, 46–52).\n\nSigns of other contacts and origins are evident in Dogon art. The Dogon people were not the first inhabitants of the cliffs of Bandiagara. Influence from Tellem art is evident in Dogon art because of its rectilinear designs (Laude, 24).\n\nThe blind Dogon elder, Ogotemmêli, taught the main symbols of the Dogon religion to the French anthropologist Marcel Griaule in October 1946. Griaule had lived amongst the Dogon people for fifteen years before this meeting with Ogotemmêli had taken place. Ogotemmêli taught Griaule the religious stories in the same way that Ogotemmêli had learned them from his father and grandfather; instruction which he had learned over the course of more than twenty years. What makes the record so important from a historical perspective is that the Dogon people were still living in their oral culture at the time their religion was recorded. They were one of the last people in Africa to lose their independence and come under French rule.\n\nThe Dogon people with whom the French anthropologists Griaule and Germaine Dieterlen worked with during the 1930s and 40s had a system of signs which ran into the thousands, including \"their own systems of astronomy and calendrical measurements, methods of calculation and extensive anatomical and physiological knowledge, as well as a systematic pharmacopoeia\". The religion embraced many aspects of nature, which some researchers associate with a traditional African religion.\n\nThe key spiritual figures in the religion were the Nummo/Nommo twins. According to Ogotemmêli's description of them, the Nummo, whom he also referred to as the Serpent, were amphibians that were often compared to serpents, lizards, chameleons, and occasionally even sloths (because of their being slow moving and having a shapeless neck). They were also described as fish capable of walking on land; while they were on land, the Nummo stood upright on their tails. The Nummos' skin was primarily green, but, like the chameleon, it sometimes changed colours. It was said to at times have all the colours of the rainbow.\n\nIn other instances, the Nummo were referred to as \"Water Spirits\". Although the Nummo were identified as being \"Dieu d'eau\" (gods of water) by Marcel Griaule, Ogotemmêli identified the Nummo as hermaphrodites and they appeared on the female side of the Dogon sanctuary. They were primarily symbolized by the sun, which was a female symbol in the religion. In the Dogon language, the sun's name (\"nay\") had the same root as \"mother\" (\"na\") and \"cow\" (\"nā\"). They were symbolized by the colour red, a female symbol.\n\nThe problem of \"twin births\" versus \"single births\", or androgyny versus single-sexed beings, contributed to a disorder at the beginning of time. This theme became a significant basis of the Dogon religion. \"The jackal was alone from birth,\" said Ogotemmêli, \"and because of this he did more things than can be told.\" Dogon males were primarily associated with the single-sexed male Jackal and the Sigui festival, which was associated with death on the Earth. It was held once every sixty years and allegedly celebrated the white dwarf star, Sirius B,<ref>\n"}
{"id": "57706171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57706171", "title": "El Mano Negra", "text": "El Mano Negra\n\nJosé Manuel Martínez (born 1962) is a former self-described Mexican drug cartel hitman. Under the nickname El Mano Negra, he has confessed to killing over 35 victims across at least 12 states.\n"}
{"id": "21521697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21521697", "title": "FareShare", "text": "FareShare\n\nFareShare is a charity aimed at relieving food poverty and reducing food waste in the UK. It does this by rescuing good quality surplus food that would otherwise have gone to waste and sending it to almost 10,000 charity and community groups across the United Kingdom.\n\nFareShare only redistributes food inside its best before and use by date; in 2016/7 they rescued over 17,000 tonnes of food which would have otherwise gone to waste or landfill.\nFareShare works with all sectors of the supply chain; producers, manufacturers and retailers. All of the major UK food retailers have encouraged their suppliers to work with FareShare to minimise food waste. FareShare has also run two successful food drives with both Sainsbury's and Tesco. In February 2018, the charity announced a three year £20 million partnership with ASDA and The Trussell Trust with the aim of helping more than one million people out of food poverty over the next three years.\n\nFareShare contributed towards more than 36.7 million meals in 2016/17, which equates to feeding over 772,000 people a week. The food FareShare supplies enables the charity sector to make £28.7 million in savings per year. This food is delivered to a broad range of frontline charities and community groups across the UK including homeless shelters, day centres, women’s refuge centres and children's breakfast clubs.\n\nIn 2010 the charity won \"Britain's Most Admired Charity\" at the Third Sector awards. In 2017 the charity won \"Charity of the Year\" at both the Charity Times awards and Third Sector Awards, and were selected for the Telegraph's Christmas Charity Appeal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11033", "title": "Frederick Douglass", "text": "Frederick Douglass\n\nFrederick Douglass (born Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey;  – February 20, 1895) was an American social reformer, abolitionist, orator, writer, and statesman. After escaping from slavery in Maryland, he became a national leader of the abolitionist movement in Massachusetts and New York, gaining note for his oratory and incisive antislavery writings. In his time, he was described by abolitionists as a living counter-example to slaveholders' arguments that slaves lacked the intellectual capacity to function as independent American citizens. Northerners at the time found it hard to believe that such a great orator had once been a slave.\n\nDouglass wrote several autobiographies. He described his experiences as a slave in his 1845 autobiography, \"Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave\", which became a bestseller, and was influential in promoting the cause of abolition, as was his second book, \"My Bondage and My Freedom\" (1855). After the Civil War, Douglass remained an active campaigner against slavery and wrote his last autobiography, \"Life and Times of Frederick Douglass\". First published in 1881 and revised in 1892, three years before his death, it covered events during and after the Civil War. Douglass also actively supported women's suffrage, and held several public offices. Without his approval, Douglass became the first African American nominated for Vice President of the United States as the running mate and Vice Presidential nominee of Victoria Woodhull, on the Equal Rights Party ticket.\n\nDouglass was a firm believer in the equality of all peoples, whether black, female, Native American, or recent immigrant. He was also a believer in dialogue and in making alliances across racial and ideological divides, and in the liberal values of the U.S. Constitution. When radical abolitionists, under the motto \"No Union With Slaveholders\", criticized Douglass' willingness to dialogue with slave owners, he famously replied: \"I would unite with anybody to do right and with nobody to do wrong.\"\n\nFrederick Augustus Washington Bailey was born into slavery on the Eastern Shore of the Chesapeake Bay in Talbot County, Maryland. The plantation was between Hillsboro and Cordova; his birthplace was likely his grandmother's cabin east of Tappers Corner, () and west of Tuckahoe Creek. The exact date of his birth is unknown, and he later chose to celebrate his birthday on February 14. In his first autobiography, Douglass stated: \"I have no accurate knowledge of my age, never having seen any authentic record containing it.\"\n\nDouglass was of mixed race, which likely included Native American and African on his mother's side, as well as European. His father was \"almost certainly white,\" as shown by historian David W. Blight in his 2018 biography of Douglass. He said his mother Harriet Bailey gave him his grand name. After escaping to the North years later, he took the surname Douglass, having already dropped his two middle names.\n\nHe later wrote of his earliest times with his mother:\n\nThe opinion was ... whispered that my master was my father; but of the correctness of this opinion I know nothing ... My mother and I were separated when I was but an infant ... It [was] common custom, in the part of Maryland from which I ran away, to part children from their mothers at a very early age. ... I do not recollect ever seeing my mother by the light of day. ... She would lie down with me, and get me to sleep, but long before I waked she was gone.\n\nAfter this early separation from his mother, young Frederick lived with his maternal grandmother, Betty Bailey. At the age of six, he was separated from his grandmother and moved to the Wye House plantation, where Aaron Anthony worked as overseer. Douglass's mother died when he was about ten. After Anthony died, Douglass was given to Lucretia Auld, wife of Thomas Auld, who sent him to serve Thomas' brother Hugh Auld in Baltimore. He felt himself lucky to be in the city, where he said slaves were almost freemen, compared to those on plantations.\n\nWhen Douglass was about twelve, Hugh Auld's wife Sophia started teaching him the alphabet. Douglass described her as a kind and tender-hearted woman, who treated him \"as she supposed one human being ought to treat another\". Hugh Auld disapproved of the tutoring, feeling that literacy would encourage slaves to desire freedom; Douglass later referred to this as the \"first decidedly antislavery lecture\" he had ever heard. Under her husband's influence, Sophia came to believe that education and slavery were incompatible and one day snatched a newspaper away from Douglass. In his autobiography, Douglass related how he learned to read from white children in the neighborhood, and by observing the writings of the men with whom he worked.\n\nDouglass continued, secretly, to teach himself how to read and write. He later often said, \"knowledge is the pathway from slavery to freedom.\" As Douglass began to read newspapers, pamphlets, political materials, and books of every description, this new realm of thought led him to question and condemn the institution of slavery. In later years, Douglass credited \"The Columbian Orator\", an anthology that he discovered at about age twelve, with clarifying and defining his views on freedom and human rights. The book, first published in 1797, is a classroom reader, containing essays, speeches and dialogues, to assist students in learning reading and grammar.\n\nWhen Douglass was hired out to William Freeland, he taught other slaves on the plantation to read the New Testament at a weekly Sunday school. As word spread, the interest among slaves in learning to read was so great that in any week, more than 40 slaves would attend lessons. For about six months, their study went relatively unnoticed. While Freeland remained complacent about their activities, other plantation owners became incensed about their slaves being educated. One Sunday they burst in on the gathering, armed with clubs and stones, to disperse the congregation permanently.\n\nIn 1833, Thomas Auld took Douglass back from Hugh (\"[a]s a means of punishing Hugh,\" Douglass later wrote). Thomas Auld sent Douglass to work for Edward Covey, a poor farmer who had a reputation as a \"slave-breaker\". He whipped Douglass regularly, and nearly broke him psychologically. The sixteen-year-old Douglass finally rebelled against the beatings, however, and fought back. After Douglass won a physical confrontation, Covey never tried to beat him again.\n\nDouglass first tried to escape from Freeland, who had hired him out from his owner Colonel Lloyd, but was unsuccessful. In 1836, he tried to escape from his new master Covey, but failed again. In 1837, Douglass met and fell in love with Anna Murray, a free black woman in Baltimore about five years older than he. Her free status strengthened his belief in the possibility of gaining his own freedom. Murray encouraged him and supported his efforts by aid and money.\n\nOn September 3, 1838, Douglass successfully escaped by boarding a train from the newly merged Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad (P.W.& B.) railroad line to the great Northern cities. The area where he boarded was a short distance east of the previous temporary P.W.& B. train depot in a recently developed neighborhood between the modern neighborhoods of Harbor East and Little Italy. The depot was located at President and Fleet streets, east of \"The Basin\" of the Baltimore harbor, on the Northwest Branch of the Patapsco River. (This depot was replaced by the historic President Street Station, constructed 1849–1850; it was noted as a site of other slave escapes along one of many routes of the famous \"Underground Railroad\" and during the Civil War.)\n\nYoung Douglass reached Havre de Grace, Maryland, in Harford County, in the northeast corner of the state, along the southwest shore of the Susquehanna River, which flowed into the Chesapeake Bay. Although this placed him some 20 miles from the free state of Pennsylvania, it was easier to travel through Delaware, another slave state. Dressed in a sailor's uniform provided to him by Murray, who also gave him part of her savings to cover his travel costs, he carried identification papers and protection papers that he had obtained from a free black seaman. Douglass crossed the wide Susquehanna River by the railroad's steam-ferry at Havre de Grace to Perryville on the opposite shore in Cecil County, then continued by train across the state line to Wilmington, Delaware, a large port at the head of the Delaware Bay. From there, because the rail line was not yet completed, he went by steamboat along the Delaware River further northeast to the \"Quaker City\" of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, an anti-slavery stronghold. He continued to the safe house of noted abolitionist David Ruggles in New York City. His entire journey to freedom took less than 24 hours.\n\nFrederick Douglass later wrote of his arrival in New York City:\n\nOnce Douglass had arrived, he sent for Murray to follow him north to New York. She brought with her the necessary basics for them to set up a home. They were married on September 15, 1838, by a black Presbyterian minister, just eleven days after Douglass had reached New York. At first, they adopted Johnson as their married name, to divert attention.\n\nThe couple settled in New Bedford, Massachusetts, in 1838, later moving to Lynn, Massachusetts in 1841. After meeting and staying with Nathan and Mary Johnson, they adopted Douglass as their married name: Douglass had grown up using his mother's surname of Bailey; after escaping slavery he had changed his surname first to Stanley and then to Johnson. In New Bedford the latter was such a common name that he wanted one that was more distinctive, and asked Nathan Johnson to choose a suitable surname. Nathan Johnson had been reading the poem \"The Lady of the Lake\", and suggested \"Douglass\", (two of the principal characters in Walter Scott's poem have the surname \"Douglas\").\nDouglass thought of joining a white Methodist Church but from the beginning, he was disappointed when he saw it was segregated. Later he joined the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church, an independent black denomination first established in New York City, which counted among its members Sojourner Truth and Harriet Tubman. He became a licensed preacher in 1839, and this helped him hone his oratorical skills. He held various positions, including steward, Sunday School superintendent, and sexton. In 1840, Douglass delivered a speech in Elmira, New York, then a station on the Underground Railroad. (Years later, a black congregation formed there and by 1940 it became the region's largest church.)\n\nDouglass also joined several organizations in New Bedford, and regularly attended abolitionist meetings. He subscribed to William Lloyd Garrison's weekly journal \"The Liberator\". Inspired by Garrison, Douglass later said, \"no face and form ever impressed me with such sentiments [of the hatred of slavery] as did those of William Lloyd Garrison.\" So deep was this influence that in his last biography, Douglass confessed \"his paper took a place in my heart second only to The Bible.\" Garrison was likewise impressed with Douglass, and had written about his anti-colonialism stance in \"The Liberator\" as early as 1839. In 1841, Douglass first heard Garrison speak at a meeting of the Bristol Anti-Slavery Society. At another meeting, Douglass was unexpectedly invited to speak. After telling his story, Douglass was encouraged to become an anti-slavery lecturer. A few days later Douglass spoke at the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society's annual convention in Nantucket. Then 23 years old, Douglass conquered his nervousness and gave an eloquent speech about his rough life as a slave.\n\nWhile living in Lynn, Douglass engaged in early protest against the segregation in transportation. In September 1841 at Lynn Central Square station, Douglass and friend James N. Buffum were thrown off an Eastern Railroad train because Douglass refused to sit in the segregated railroad coach.\n\nIn 1843, Douglass joined other speakers in the American Anti-Slavery Society's \"Hundred Conventions\" project, a six-month tour at meeting halls throughout the Eastern and Midwestern United States. During this tour, slavery supporters frequently accosted Douglass. At a lecture in Pendleton, Indiana, an angry mob chased and beat Douglass before a local Quaker family, the Hardys, rescued him. His hand was broken in the attack; it healed improperly and bothered him for the rest of his life. A stone marker in Falls Park in the Pendleton Historic District commemorates this event.\n\nDouglass's best-known work is his first autobiography \"Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave\", written during his time in Lynn, Massachusetts and published in 1845. At the time, some skeptics questioned whether a black man could have produced such an eloquent piece of literature. The book received generally positive reviews and became an immediate bestseller. Within three years, it had been reprinted nine times, with 11,000 copies circulating in the United States. It was also translated into French and Dutch and published in Europe.\n\nDouglass published three versions of his autobiography during his lifetime (and revised the third of these), each time expanding on the previous one. The 1845 \"Narrative\" was his biggest seller, and probably allowed him to raise the funds to gain his legal freedom the following year, as discussed below. In 1855, Douglass published \"My Bondage and My Freedom\". In 1881, after the Civil War, Douglass published \"Life and Times of Frederick Douglass\", which he revised in 1892.\n\nDouglass' friends and mentors feared that the publicity would draw the attention of his ex-owner, Hugh Auld, who might try to get his \"property\" back. They encouraged Douglass to tour Ireland, as many former slaves had done. Douglass set sail on the \"Cambria\" for Liverpool on August 16, 1845. He traveled in Ireland as the Irish Potato Famine was beginning.\n\nThe feeling of freedom from American racial discrimination amazed Douglass:\n\nEleven days and a half gone and I have crossed three thousand miles of the perilous deep. Instead of a democratic government, I am under a monarchical government. Instead of the bright, blue sky of America, I am covered with the soft, grey fog of the Emerald Isle [Ireland]. I breathe, and lo! the chattel [slave] becomes a man. I gaze around in vain for one who will question my equal humanity, claim me as his slave, or offer me an insult. I employ a cab—I am seated beside white people—I reach the hotel—I enter the same door—I am shown into the same parlour—I dine at the same table—and no one is offended ... I find myself regarded and treated at every turn with the kindness and deference paid to white people. When I go to church, I am met by no upturned nose and scornful lip to tell me, \"We don't allow niggers in here!\"\n\nHe also met and befriended the Irish nationalist Daniel O'Connell who was to be a great inspiration.\n\nDouglass spent two years in Ireland and Great Britain, where he gave many lectures in churches and chapels. His draw was such that some facilities were \"crowded to suffocation\". One example was his hugely popular \"London Reception Speech\", which Douglass delivered in May 1846 at Alexander Fletcher's Finsbury Chapel. Douglass remarked that in England he was treated not \"as a color, but as a man.\"\n\nIn 1846, Douglass met with Thomas Clarkson, one of the last living British abolitionists, who had persuaded Parliament to abolish slavery in Great Britain's colonies. During this trip Douglass became legally free, as British supporters led by Anna Richardson and her sister-in-law Ellen of Newcastle upon Tyne raised funds to buy his freedom from his American owner Thomas Auld. Many supporters tried to encourage Douglass to remain in England but, with his wife still in Massachusetts and three million of his black brethren in bondage in the United States, he returned to America in the spring of 1847, soon after the death of Daniel O'Connell.\n\nIn the 21st century, historical plaques were installed on buildings in Cork and Waterford, Ireland, and London to celebrate Douglass's visit: the first is on the Imperial Hotel in Cork and was unveiled on August 31, 2012; the second is on the facade of Waterford City Hall and was unveiled on October 7, 2013. It commemorates his speech there on October 9, 1845. The third plaque adorns Nell Gwynn House, South Kensington in London, where Douglass stayed with the British abolitionist George Thompson.\n\nAfter returning to the U.S. in 1847, Douglass started publishing his first abolitionist newspaper, the \"North Star\", from the basement of the Memorial AME Zion Church in Rochester, New York. The \"North Star\"'s motto was \"Right is of no Sex – Truth is of no Color – God is the Father of us all, and we are all brethren.\" The AME Church and \"North Star\" vigorously opposed the mostly white American Colonization Society and its proposal to send blacks back to Africa. This and Douglass's later abolitionist newspapers were mainly funded by English supporters, who gave Douglass five hundred pounds to use as he chose. Douglass also soon split with Garrison, perhaps because the \"North Star\" competed with Garrison's \"National Anti-Slavery Standard\" and Marius Robinson's \"Anti-Slavery Bugle\".\n\nDouglass also came to consider Garrison too radical. Earlier Douglass had agreed with Garrison's position that the Constitution was pro-slavery, because of its compromises related to apportionment of Congressional seats, based on partial counting of slave populations with state totals; and protection of the international slave trade through 1807. Garrison had burned copies of the Constitution to express his opinion. But, Lysander Spooner published \"The Unconstitutionality of Slavery\" (1846), which explored the United States Constitution as an anti-slavery document. Douglass's change of opinion about the Constitution and his splitting from Garrison around 1847 became one of the abolitionist movement's most notable divisions. Douglass angered Garrison by saying that the Constitution could and should be used as an instrument in the fight against slavery.\n\nIn September 1848, Douglass published an open letter addressed to his former master, Thomas Auld, berating him for his conduct, and enquiring after members of his family still held by Auld. In a graphic passage, Douglass asked Auld how he would feel if Douglass had come to take away his daughter Amanda as a slave, treating her the way he and members of his family had been treated by Auld.\n\nIn 1848, Douglass was the only African American to attend the Seneca Falls Convention, the first women's rights convention, in upstate New York. Elizabeth Cady Stanton asked the assembly to pass a resolution asking for women's suffrage. Many of those present opposed the idea, including influential Quakers James and Lucretia Mott. Douglass stood and spoke eloquently in favor; he said that he could not accept the right to vote as a black man if women could not also claim that right. He suggested that the world would be a better place if women were involved in the political sphere.\n\nAfter Douglass's powerful words, the attendees passed the resolution.\n\nAlso in the wake of the Seneca Falls Convention, Douglass used an editorial spot in his paper, the North Star, to press the case for women's rights in this public venue. The article was two-fold: it recalled the \"marked ability and dignity\" of the proceedings and briefly conveyed several arguments of the convention and feminist thought at the time.\n\nOn the first count, Douglass acknowledged the \"decorum\" of the participants in the face of disagreement. The latter half discussed the primary document that emerged from the conference, a Declaration of Sentiments, and his own discussion of the \"infant\" feminist cause. Strikingly, he expressed the belief that \"[a] discussion of the rights of animals would be regarded with far more complacency ... than would be a discussion of the rights of women,\" and Douglass noted the link between abolitionism and feminism, the overlap between the communities.\n\nHis opinion as the prominent editor of the paper likely carried weight, and he stated the position of the North Star explicitly: \"[w]e hold woman to be justly entitled to all we claim for man.\" This letter, written a week after the convention, reaffirmed the first part of the paper's slogan, \"right is of no sex.\"\n\nLater, after the Civil War when the 15th Amendment to give freedmen and free blacks the right to vote was being debated, Douglass split with the Stanton-led faction of the women's rights movement. Douglass supported the amendment, which would grant suffrage to black men. Stanton opposed the 15th Amendment because it limited expansion of suffrage to black men; she predicted its passage would delay for decades the cause for women's right to vote. Stanton argued that American women and black men should band together to fight for universal suffrage, and opposed any bill that split the issues. Douglass and Stanton both knew that there was not yet enough male support for women's right to vote, but that an amendment giving black men the vote could pass in the late 1860s. Stanton wanted to attach women's suffrage to that of black men so that her cause would be carried to success.\n\nDouglass thought such a strategy was too risky, that there was barely enough support for black men's suffrage. He feared that linking the cause of women's suffrage to that of black men would result in failure for both. Douglass argued that white women, already empowered by their social connections to fathers, husbands, and brothers, at least vicariously had the vote. African-American women, he believed, would have the same degree of empowerment as white women once African-American men had the vote. Douglass assured the American women that at no time had he ever argued against women's right to vote.\n\nMeanwhile, in 1851, Douglass merged the \"North Star\" with Gerrit Smith's \"Liberty Party Paper\" to form \"Frederick Douglass' Paper\", which was published until 1860.\n\nOn July 5, 1852, Douglass delivered an address to the ladies of the Rochester Anti-Slavery Sewing Society. This speech eventually became known as \"What to the Slave Is the Fourth of July?\"; one biographer called it \"perhaps the greatest antislavery oration ever given.\" In 1853, he was a prominent attendee of the radical abolitionist National African American Convention in Rochester. His was one of 5 names attached to the address of the convention to the people of the United States published under the title, \"The Claims of Our Common Cause\", along with Amos Noë Freeman, James Monroe Whitfield, Henry O. Wagoner, and George Boyer Vashon.\n\nLike many abolitionists, Douglass believed that education would be crucial for African Americans to improve their lives. This led Douglass to become an early advocate for school desegregation. In the 1850s, Douglass observed that New York's facilities and instruction for African-American children were vastly inferior to those for whites. Douglass called for court action to open all schools to all children. He said that full inclusion within the educational system was a more pressing need for African Americans than political issues such as suffrage.\n\nOn March 12, 1859, Douglass met with radical abolitionists John Brown, George DeBaptiste, and others at William Webb's house in Detroit to discuss emancipation. Douglass met Brown again, when Brown visited his home two months before leading the raid on the federal armory in Harpers Ferry, Virginia. However, Douglass disapproved of Brown's plan to start an armed slave rebellion in the South. Douglass believed that attacking federal property would enrage the American public. After the raid, Douglass fled for a time to Canada, fearing guilt by association as well as arrest as a co-conspirator. Years later, Douglass shared a stage in Harpers Ferry with Andrew Hunter, the prosecutor who secured Brown's conviction and execution.\n\nIn March 1860, while Douglass was once again traveling in England, his youngest daughter Annie died in Rochester, New York. Douglass sailed back from England the following month, traveling through Canada to avoid detection.\n\nDouglass considered photography very important in ending slavery and racism, and believed that the camera would not lie, even in the hands of a racist white, as photographs were an excellent counter to the many racist caricatures, particularly in blackface minstrelsy. He was the most photographed American of the 19th Century, self-consciously using photography to advance his political views. He never smiled, specifically so as not to play into the racist caricature of a happy slave. He tended to look directly into the camera to confront the viewer, with a stern look.\n\nAs a child, Douglass was exposed to a number of religious sermons, and in his youth, he sometimes heard Sophia Auld reading the Bible. In time, he became interested in literacy; he began reading and copying bible verses, and he eventually converted to Christianity. He described this approach in his last biography, \"Life and Times of Frederick Douglass\":\n\nI was not more than thirteen years old, when in my loneliness and destitution I longed for some one to whom I could go, as to a father and protector. The preaching of a white Methodist minister, named Hanson, was the means of causing me to feel that in God I had such a friend. He thought that all men, great and small, bond and free, were sinners in the sight of God: that they were by nature rebels against His government; and that they must repent of their sins, and be reconciled to God through Christ. I cannot say that I had a very distinct notion of what was required of me, but one thing I did know well: I was wretched and had no means of making myself otherwise.I consulted a good old colored man named Charles Lawson, and in tones of holy affection he told me to pray, and to \"cast all my care upon God.\" This I sought to do; and though for weeks I was a poor, broken-hearted mourner, traveling through doubts and fears, I finally found my burden lightened, and my heart relieved. I loved all mankind, slaveholders not excepted, though I abhorred slavery more than ever. I saw the world in a new light, and my great concern was to have everybody converted. My desire to learn increased, and especially, did I want a thorough acquaintance with the contents of the Bible.\n\nDouglass was mentored by Rev. Charles Lawson, and, early in his activism, he often included biblical allusions and religious metaphors in his speeches. Although a believer, he strongly criticized religious hypocrisy and accused slaveholders of \"wickedness\", lack of morality, and failure to follow the Golden Rule. In this sense, Douglass distinguished between the \"Christianity of Christ\" and the \"Christianity of America\" and considered religious slaveholders and clergymen who defended slavery as the most brutal, sinful, and cynical of all who represented \"wolves in sheep's clothing\".\n\nNotably, in a famous oration given in the Corinthian Hall of Rochester, he sharply criticized the attitude of religious people who kept silent about slavery, and held that religious ministers committed a \"blasphemy\" when they taught it as sanctioned by religion. He considered that a law passed to support slavery was \"one of the grossest infringements of Christian Liberty\" and said that pro-slavery clergymen within the American Church \"stripped the love of God of its beauty, and leave the throne of religion a huge, horrible, repulsive form\", and \"an abomination in the sight of God\". Of ministers like John Chase Lord, Leonard Elijah Lathrop, Ichabod Spencer, and Orville Dewey, he said that they taught, against the Scriptures, that \"we ought to obey man's law before the law of God\". He further asserted, \"in speaking of the American church, however, let it be distinctly understood that I mean the great mass of the religious organizations of our land. There are exceptions, and I thank God that there are. Noble men may be found, scattered all over these Northern States ... Henry Ward Beecher of Brooklyn, Samuel J. May of Syracuse, and my esteemed friend [Robert R. Raymonde]\". He maintained that \"upon these men lies the duty to inspire our ranks with high religious faith and zeal, and to cheer us on in the great mission of the slave's redemption from his chains\". In addition, he called religious people to embrace abolitionism, stating, \"let the religious press, the pulpit, the Sunday school, the conference meeting, the great ecclesiastical, missionary, Bible and tract associations of the land array their immense powers against slavery and slave-holding; and the whole system of crime and blood would be scattered to the winds.\"\n\nDuring his visits to the United Kingdom, between 1846 and 1848, Douglass asked British Christians never to support American Churches that permitted slavery, and he expressed his happiness to know that a group of ministers in Belfast had refused to admit slaveholders as members of the Church.\n\nOn his return to the United States, Douglass founded the \"North Star\", a weekly publication with the motto \"Right is of no sex, Truth is of no color, God is the Father of us all, and we are all Brethren.\" Douglass later wrote a letter to his former slaveholder, in which he denounced him for leaving Douglass's family illiterate:\n\nSometimes considered a precursor of a non-denominational liberation theology, Douglass was a deeply spiritual man, as his home continues to show. The fireplace mantle features busts of two of his favorite philosophers, David Friedrich Strauss, author of \"The Life of Jesus\", and Ludwig Feuerbach, author of \"The Essence of Christianity\". In addition to several Bibles and books about various religions in the library, images of angels and Jesus are displayed, as well as interior and exterior photographs of Washington's Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal Church. Throughout his life, Douglass had linked that individual experience with social reform, and like other Christian abolitionists, he followed practices such as abstaining from tobacco, alcohol and other substances that he believed corrupted body and soul.\n\nBy the time of the Civil War, Douglass was one of the most famous black men in the country, known for his orations on the condition of the black race and on other issues such as women's rights. His eloquence gathered crowds at every location. His reception by leaders in England and Ireland added to his stature.\n\nDouglass and the abolitionists argued that because the aim of the Civil War was to end slavery, African Americans should be allowed to engage in the fight for their freedom. Douglass publicized this view in his newspapers and several speeches. In August 1861, Douglass published an account of the First Battle of Bull Run that noted that there were some blacks already in the Confederate ranks. A few weeks later, Douglass brought the subject up again, quoting a witness to the battle who said they saw black Confederates \"with muskets on their shoulders and bullets in their pockets.\" Douglass conferred with President Abraham Lincoln in 1863 on the treatment of black soldiers, and with President Andrew Johnson on the subject of black suffrage.\n\nPresident Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation, which took effect on January 1, 1863, declared the freedom of all slaves in Confederate-held territory. (Slaves in Union-held areas and Northern states were freed with the adoption of the 13th Amendment on December 6, 1865.) Douglass described the spirit of those awaiting the proclamation: \"We were waiting and listening as for a bolt from the sky ... we were watching ... by the dim light of the stars for the dawn of a new day ... we were longing for the answer to the agonizing prayers of centuries.\"\n\nDuring the U.S. Presidential Election of 1864, Douglass supported John C. Frémont, who was the candidate of the abolitionist Radical Democracy Party. Douglass was disappointed that President Lincoln did not publicly endorse suffrage for black freedmen. Douglass believed that since African-American men were fighting for the Union in the American Civil War, they deserved the right to vote.\n\nWith the North no longer obliged to return slaves to their owners in the South, Douglass fought for equality for his people. He made plans with Lincoln to move liberated slaves out of the South. During the war, Douglass also helped the Union cause by serving as a recruiter for the 54th Massachusetts Infantry Regiment. His eldest son, Charles Douglass, joined the 54th Massachusetts Regiment, but was ill for much of his service. Lewis Douglass fought at the Battle of Fort Wagner. Another son, Frederick Douglass Jr., also served as a recruiter.\n\nThe post-war (1865) ratification of the 13th Amendment outlawed slavery. The 14th Amendment provided for citizenship and equal protection under the law. The 15th Amendment protected all citizens from being discriminated against in voting because of race.\n\nOn April 14, 1876, Douglass delivered the keynote speech at the unveiling of the Emancipation Memorial in Washington's Lincoln Park. In that speech, Douglass spoke frankly about Lincoln, noting what he perceived as both positive and negative attributes of the late President. Calling Lincoln \"the white man's president\", Douglass criticized Lincoln's tardiness in joining the cause of emancipation, noting that Lincoln initially opposed the expansion of slavery but did not support its elimination. But Douglass also asked, \"Can any colored man, or any white man friendly to the freedom of all men, ever forget the night which followed the first day of January 1863, when the world was to see if Abraham Lincoln would prove to be as good as his word?\" Douglass also said: \"Though Mr. Lincoln shared the prejudices of his white fellow-countrymen against the Negro, it is hardly necessary to say that in his heart of hearts he loathed and hated slavery ...\"\n\nThe crowd, roused by his speech, gave Douglass a standing ovation. Lincoln's widow Mary Lincoln supposedly gave Lincoln's favorite walking-stick to Douglass in appreciation. That walking-stick still rests in Douglass's final residence, \"Cedar Hill\", now preserved as the Frederick Douglass National Historic Site.\n\nAfter the Civil War, Douglass continued to work for equality for African-Americans and women. Due to his prominence and activism during the war, Douglass received several political appointments. He served as president of the Reconstruction-era Freedman's Savings Bank. Douglass also became chargé d'affaires for the Dominican Republic, but resigned that position after two years because of disagreements with U.S. government policy.\n\nMeanwhile, white insurgents had quickly arisen in the South after the war, organizing first as secret vigilante groups, including the Ku Klux Klan. Armed insurgency took different forms. Powerful paramilitary groups included the White League and the Red Shirts, both active during the 1870s in the Deep South. They operated as \"the military arm of the Democratic Party\", turning out Republican officeholders and disrupting elections. More than 10 years after the end of the war, Democrats regained political power in every state of the former Confederacy and began to reassert white supremacy. They enforced this by a combination of violence, late 19th-century laws imposing segregation and a concerted effort to disfranchise African Americans. New labor and criminal laws also limited their freedom.\n\nIn an effort to combat these efforts, Douglass supported the presidential campaign of Ulysses S. Grant in 1868. In 1870, Douglass started his last newspaper, the \"New National Era\", attempting to hold his country to its commitment to equality. President Grant sent a Congressionally sponsored commission, accompanied by Douglass, on a mission to the West Indies to investigate if the annexation of Santo Domingo would be good for the United States. Grant believed annexation would help relieve the violent situation in the South allowing African Americans their own state. Douglass and the commission favored annexation, however, Congress remained opposed to annexation. Douglass criticized Senator Charles Sumner, who opposed annexation, stating if Sumner continued to oppose annexation he would \"regard him as the worst foe the colored race has on this continent.\"\n\nAfter the midterm elections, Grant signed the Civil Rights Act of 1871 (also known as the Klan Act), and the second and third Enforcement Acts. Grant used their provisions vigorously, suspending \"habeas corpus\" in South Carolina and sending troops there and into other states. Under his leadership over 5,000 arrests were made. Grant's vigor in disrupting the Klan made him unpopular among many whites, but earned Douglass's praise. An associate of Douglass wrote of Grant that African Americans \"will ever cherish a grateful remembrance of his name, fame and great services.\"\n\nIn 1872, Douglass became the first African American nominated for Vice President of the United States, as Victoria Woodhull's running mate on the Equal Rights Party ticket. He was nominated without his knowledge. Douglass neither campaigned for the ticket nor acknowledged that he had been nominated. In that year, he was presidential elector at large for the State of New York, and took that state's votes to Washington, D.C.\n\nHowever, in early June of that year, Douglass' home on South Avenue in Rochester, New York, burned down; arson was suspected. There was extensive damage to the house, its furnishings, and the grounds; in addition, sixteen volumes of the \"North Star\" and \"Frederick Douglass' Paper\" were lost. Douglass then moved to Washington, D.C.\n\nThroughout the Reconstruction era, Douglass continued speaking, and emphasized the importance of work, voting rights and actual exercise of suffrage. Douglass's stump speech for 25 years after the end of the Civil War emphasized work to counter the racism that was then prevalent in unions. In a speech delivered on November 15, 1867, Douglass said: \"A man's rights rest in three boxes. The ballot box, jury box and the cartridge box. Let no man be kept from the ballot box because of his color. Let no woman be kept from the ballot box because of her sex.\" Douglass spoke at many colleges around the country. These included Bates College in Lewiston, Maine, in 1873.\n\nDouglass and Anna had five children: Rosetta Douglass, Lewis Henry Douglass, Frederick Douglass Jr., Charles Remond Douglass, and Annie Douglass (died at the age of ten). Charles and Rosetta helped produce his newspapers.\n\nAnna Douglass remained a loyal supporter of her husband's public work. His relationships with Julia Griffiths and Ottilie Assing, two women with whom he was professionally involved, caused recurring speculation and scandals. Assing was a young German woman who interviewed Douglass in 1856 and \"fell passionately in love with him.\" She introduced Douglass to her nation's poetry, philosophy, and wide range of culture.\n\nAfter Anna died in 1882, in 1884 Douglass married again, to Helen Pitts, a white suffragist and abolitionist from Honeoye, New York. Pitts was the daughter of Gideon Pitts Jr., an abolitionist colleague and friend of Douglass. A graduate of Mount Holyoke College (then called Mount Holyoke Female Seminary), Pitts worked on a radical feminist publication named \"Alpha\" while living in Washington, D.C. She later worked as Douglass's secretary.\n\nTheir marriage provoked a storm of controversy, since Pitts was both white and nearly 20 years younger than Douglass. Her family stopped speaking to her; his children considered the marriage a repudiation of their mother. But feminist Elizabeth Cady Stanton congratulated the couple. Douglass responded to the criticisms by saying that his first marriage had been to someone the color of his mother, and his second to someone the color of his father.\n\nThe Freedman's Savings Bank went bankrupt on June 29, 1874, just a few months after Douglass became its president in late March. During that same economic crisis, his final newspaper, \"The New National Era\", failed in September. When Republican Rutherford B. Hayes was elected President, Douglass accepted an appointment as United States Marshal for the District of Columbia, which helped assure his family's financial security.\n\nIn 1877, Douglass visited Thomas Auld, who was by then on his deathbed, and the two men reconciled. Douglass had met Auld's daughter, Amanda Auld Sears, some years prior; she had requested the meeting and had subsequently attended and cheered one of Douglass' speeches. Her father complimented her for reaching out to Douglass. The visit also appears to have brought closure to Douglass, although some criticized his effort.\n\nThat same year, Douglass bought the house that was to be the family's final home in Washington D.C., on a hill above the Anacostia River. He and Anna named it \"Cedar Hill\" (also spelled \"CedarHill\"). They expanded the house from 14 to 21 rooms, and included a china closet. One year later, Douglass purchased adjoining lots and expanded the property to 15 acres (61,000 m²). The home is now preserved as the Frederick Douglass National Historic Site.\n\nIn 1881, Douglass published the final edition of his autobiography, \"The Life and Times of Frederick Douglass\". That year he was appointed as Recorder of Deeds for the District of Columbia. His wife Anna Murray-Douglass died in 1882, leaving the widower devastated. After a period of mourning, Douglass found new meaning from working with activist Ida B. Wells. He remarried in 1884, as mentioned above.\n\nDouglass also continued his speaking engagements and travel, both in the United States and abroad. With his new wife, Helen, Douglass traveled to England, Ireland, France, Italy, Egypt and Greece from 1886 to 1887. Douglass also became known for advocating Irish Home Rule and supported Charles Stewart Parnell in Ireland.\n\nAt the 1888 Republican National Convention, Douglass became the first African American to receive a vote for President of the United States in a major party's roll call vote. That year, Douglass spoke at Claflin College, a historically black college in Orangeburg, South Carolina, and the oldest such institution in the state.\n\nMany African Americans, called Exodusters, escaped the Klan and racially discriminatory laws in the South by moving to Kansas, where some formed all-black towns to have a greater level of freedom and autonomy. Douglass did not favor this, nor the Back-to-Africa movement. He thought the latter resembled the American Colonization Society which he had opposed in his youth. In 1892, at an Indianapolis conference convened by Bishop Henry McNeal Turner, Douglass spoke out against the separatist movements, urging blacks to stick it out. He made similar speeches as early as 1879, and was criticized both by fellow leaders and some audiences, who even booed him for this position. Speaking in Baltimore in 1894, Douglass said, \"I hope and trust all will come out right in the end, but the immediate future looks dark and troubled. I cannot shut my eyes to the ugly facts before me.\"\n\nPresident Harrison appointed Douglass as the United States's minister resident and consul-general to the Republic of Haiti and Chargé d'affaires for Santo Domingo in 1889, but Douglass resigned the commission in July 1891. In 1893, Haiti made Douglass a co-commissioner of its pavilion at the World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago.\n\nIn 1892, Douglass constructed rental housing for blacks, now known as Douglass Place, in the Fells Point area of Baltimore. The complex still exists, and in 2003 was listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nOn February 20, 1895, Douglass attended a meeting of the National Council of Women in Washington, D.C. During that meeting, he was brought to the platform and received a standing ovation. Shortly after he returned home, Douglass died of a massive heart attack. He was 77.\n\nHis funeral was held at the Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal Church. Thousands of people passed by his coffin to show their respect. Although Douglass had attended several churches in the nation's capital, he had a pew here and donated two standing candelabras when this church had moved to a new building in 1886. He also gave many lectures there, including his last major speech, \"The Lesson of the Hour.\"\n\nDouglass' coffin was transported back to Rochester, New York, where he had lived for 25 years, longer than anywhere else in his life. He was buried next to Anna in the Douglass family plot of Mount Hope Cemetery, and Helen joined them in 1903.\n\nRoy Finkenbine argues:\n\nThe most influential African American of the nineteenth century, Douglass made a career of agitating the American conscience. He spoke and wrote on behalf of a variety of reform causes: women's rights, temperance, peace, land reform, free public education, and the abolition of capital punishment. But he devoted the bulk of his time, immense talent, and boundless energy to ending slavery and gaining equal rights for African Americans. These were the central concerns of his long reform career. Douglass understood that the struggle for emancipation and equality demanded forceful, persistent, and unyielding agitation. And he recognized that African Americans must play a conspicuous role in that struggle. Less than a month before his death, when a young black man solicited his advice to an African American just starting out in the world, Douglass replied without hesitation: \"Agitate! Agitate! Agitate!\n\nThe Episcopal Church (USA) remembers Douglass annually on its liturgical calendar for February 20, the anniversary of his death. Many public schools have also been named in his honor. Douglass still has living descendants today, such as Ken Morris, who is also a descendant of Booker T. Washington. Other honors and remembrances, organized chronologically, include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nScholarship:\n\nFor young readers:\n\nDocumentary films:\n\n\nDouglass sources online\n\nResource Guides\n\nBiographical information\n\nMemorials to Frederick Douglass\n"}
{"id": "34007900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34007900", "title": "Georgians in Moldova", "text": "Georgians in Moldova\n\nEthnic Georgians in Moldova number around 900 to 1000. They speak Georgian language and practise Eastern Orthodox Christianity.\n"}
{"id": "16065393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16065393", "title": "Green nanotechnology", "text": "Green nanotechnology\n\nGreen nanotechnology refers to the use of nanotechnology to enhance the environmental sustainability of processes producing negative externalities. It also refers to the use of the products of nanotechnology to enhance sustainability. It includes making green nano-products and using nano-products in support of sustainability.\n\nGreen nanotechnology has been described as the development of clean technologies, \"to minimize potential environmental and human health risks associated with the manufacture and use of nanotechnology products, and to encourage replacement of existing products with new nano-products that are more environmentally friendly throughout their lifecycle.\"\n\nGreen nanotechnology has two goals: producing nanomaterials and products without harming the environment or human health, and producing nano-products that provide solutions to environmental problems. It uses existing principles of green chemistry and green engineering to make nanomaterials and nano-products without toxic ingredients, at low temperatures using less energy and renewable inputs wherever possible, and using lifecycle thinking in all design and engineering stages.\n\nIn addition to making nanomaterials and products with less impact to the environment, green nanotechnology also means using nanotechnology to make current manufacturing processes for non-nano materials and products more environmentally friendly. For example, nanoscale membranes can help separate desired chemical reaction products from waste materials. Nanoscale catalysts can make chemical reactions more efficient and less wasteful. Sensors at the nanoscale can form a part of process control systems, working with nano-enabled information systems. Using alternative energy systems, made possible by nanotechnology, is another way to \"green\" manufacturing processes.\n\nThe second goal of green nanotechnology involves developing products that benefit the environment either directly or indirectly. Nanomaterials or products directly can clean hazardous waste sites, desalinate water, treat pollutants, or sense and monitor environmental pollutants. Indirectly, lightweight nanocomposites for automobiles and other means of transportation could save fuel and reduce materials used for production; nanotechnology-enabled fuel cells and light-emitting diodes (LEDs) could reduce pollution from energy generation and help conserve fossil fuels; self-cleaning nanoscale surface coatings could reduce or eliminate many cleaning chemicals used in regular maintenance routines; and enhanced battery life could lead to less material use and less waste. Green Nanotechnology takes a broad systems view of nanomaterials and products, ensuring that unforeseen consequences are minimized and that impacts are anticipated throughout the full life cycle.\n\nResearch is underway to use nanomaterials for purposes including more efficient solar cells, practical fuel cells, and environmentally friendly batteries. The most advanced nanotechnology projects related to energy are: storage, conversion, manufacturing improvements by reducing materials and process rates, energy saving (by better thermal insulation for example), and enhanced renewable energy sources.\n\nOne major project that is being worked on is the development of nanotechnology in solar cells. Solar cells are more efficient as they get tinier and solar energy is a renewable resource. The price per watt of solar energy is lower than one dollar.\n\nResearch is ongoing to use nanowires and other nanostructured materials with the hope of to create cheaper and more efficient solar cells than are possible with conventional planar silicon solar cells. Another example is the use of fuel cells powered by hydrogen, potentially using a catalyst consisting of carbon supported noble metal particles with diameters of 1–5 nm. Materials with small nanosized pores may be suitable for hydrogen storage. Nanotechnology may also find applications in batteries, where the use of nanomaterials may enable batteries with higher energy content or supercapacitors with a higher rate of recharging.\n\nNanotechnology is already used to provide improved performance coatings for photovoltaic (PV) and solar thermal panels. Hydrophobic and self-cleaning properties combine to create more efficient solar panels, especially during inclement weather. PV covered with nanotechnology coatings are said to stay cleaner for longer to ensure maximum energy efficiency is maintained.\n\nNanotechnology offers the potential of novel nanomaterials for the treatment of surface water, groundwater, wastewater, and other environmental materials contaminated by toxic metal ions, organic and inorganic solutes, and microorganisms. Due to their unique activity toward recalcitrant contaminants, many nanomaterials are under active research and development for use in the treatment of water and contaminated sites.\n\nThe present market of nanotech-based technologies applied in water treatment consists of reverse osmosis(RO), nanofiltration, ultrafiltration membranes. Indeed, among emerging products one can name nanofiber filters, carbon nanotubes and various nanoparticles. Nanotechnology is expected to deal more efficiently with contaminants which convectional water treatment systems struggle to treat, including bacteria, viruses and heavy metals. This efficiency generally stems from the very high specific surface area of nanomaterials which increases dissolution, reactivity and sorption of contaminants.\n\nNanoremediation is the use of nanoparticles for environmental remediation. Nanoremediation has been most widely used for groundwater treatment, with additional extensive research in wastewater treatment. Nanoremediation has also been tested for soil and sediment cleanup. Even more preliminary research is exploring the use of nanoparticles to remove toxic materials from gases.\n\nSome nanoremediation methods, particularly the use of nano zerovalent iron for groundwater cleanup, have been deployed at full-scale cleanup sites. Nanoremediation is an emerging industry; by 2009, nanoremediation technologies had been documented in at least 44 cleanup sites around the world, predominantly in the United States. During nanoremediation, a nanoparticle agent must be brought into contact with the target contaminant under conditions that allow a detoxifying or immobilizing reaction. This process typically involves a pump-and-treat process or \"in situ\" application. Other methods remain in research phases.\n\nScientists have been researching the capabilities of buckminsterfullerene in controlling pollution, as it may be able to control certain chemical reactions. Buckminsterfullerene has been demonstrated as having the ability of inducing the protection of reactive oxygen species and causing lipid peroxidation. This material may allow for hydrogen fuel to be more accessible to consumers.\n\nIn 2017 the RingwooditE Co Ltd was formed in order to explore Thermonuclear Trap Technology (TTT) for the purpose of cleaning all sources of water from pollution and toxic contents. This patented nanotechnology uses a high pressure and temperature chamber to separate isotopes that should by nature not be in drinking water to pure drinking water, as to the by the WHO´s established classification.\nThis method has been developed by among others, by professor Vladimir Afanasiew, at the Moscow Nuclear Institution. This technology is targeted to clean Sea, river, lake and landfill waste waters. It even removes radioactive isotopes from the sea water, after Nuclear Power Stations catastrophes and cooling water plant towers.\nBy this technology pharmaca rests are being removed as well as narcotics and tranquilizers. Bottom layers and sides at lake and rivers can be returned, after being cleaned. Machinery used for this purpose are much similar to those of deep sea mining.\nRemoved waste items are being sorted by the process, and can be re used as raw material for other industrial production.\n\nNanofiltration is a relatively recent membrane filtration process used most often with low total dissolved solids water such as surface water and fresh groundwater, with the purpose of softening (polyvalent cation removal) and removal of disinfection by-product precursors such as natural organic matter and synthetic organic matter. Nanofiltration is also becoming more widely used in food processing applications such as dairy, for simultaneous concentration and partial (monovalent ion) demineralisation.\n\nNanofiltration is a membrane filtration based method that uses nanometer sized cylindrical through-pores that pass through the membrane at a 90°. Nanofiltration membranes have pore sizes from 1-10 Angstrom, smaller than that used in microfiltration and ultrafiltration, but just larger than that in reverse osmosis. Membranes used are predominantly created from polymer thin films. Materials that are commonly used include polyethylene terephthalate or metals such as aluminum. Pore dimensions are controlled by pH, temperature and time during development with pore densities ranging from 1 to 106 pores per cm. Membranes made from polyethylene terephthalate and other similar materials, are referred to as \"track-etch\" membranes, named after the way the pores on the membranes are made. \"Tracking\" involves bombarding the polymer thin film with high energy particles. This results in making tracks that are chemically developed into the membrane, or \"etched\" into the membrane, which are the pores. Membranes created from metal such as alumina membranes, are made by electrochemically growing a thin layer of aluminum oxide from aluminum metal in an acidic medium.\n\nSome water-treatment devices incorporating nanotechnology are already on the market, with more in development. Low-cost nanostructured separation membranes methods have been shown to be effective in producing potable water in a recent study.\n\nNanotechnology provides an alternative solution to clean germs in water, a problem that has been getting worse due to the population explosion, growing need for clean water and the emergence of additional pollutants. One of the alternatives offered is antimicrobial nanotechnology stated that several nanomaterials showed strong antimicrobial properties through diverse mechanisms, such as photocatalytic production of reactive oxygen species that damage cell components and viruses. There is also the case of the synthetically-fabricated nanometallic particles that produce antimicrobial action called oligodynamic disinfection, which can inactivate microorganisms at low concentrations. Commercial purification systems based on titanium oxide photocatalysis also currently exist and studies show that this technology can achieve complete inactivation of fecal coliforms in 15 minutes once activated by sunlight.\n\nThere are four classes of nanomaterials that are employed for water treatment and these are dendrimers, zeolites, carbonaceous nanomaterials, and metals containing nanoparticles. The benefits of the reduction of the size of the metals (e.g. silver, copper, titanium, and cobalt) to the nanoscale such as contact efficiency, greater surface area, and better elution properties.\n\nThe U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) documents more than ten thousand oil spills per year. Conventionally, biological, dispersing, and gelling agents are deployed to remedy oil spills. Although, these methods have been used for decades, none of these techniques can retrieve the irreplaceable lost oil. However, nanowires can not only swiftly clean up oil spills but also recover as much oil as possible. These nanowires form a mesh that absorbs up to twenty times its weight in hydrophobic liquids while rejecting water with its water repelling coating. \nSince the potassium manganese oxide is very stable even at high temperatures, the oil can be boiled off the nanowires and both the oil and the nanowires can then be reused.\n\nIn 2005, Hurricane Katrina damaged or destroyed more than thirty oil platforms and nine refineries. The Interface Science Corporation successfully launched a new oil remediation and recovery application, which used the water repelling nanowires to clean up the oil spilled by the damaged oil platforms and refineries.\n\nOne innovation of green nanotechnology that is currently under development are nanomachines modeled after a bacteria bioengineered to consume plastics, \"Ideonella sakaiensis\". These nano-machines are able to decompose plastics dozens of times faster than the bioengineered bacteria not only because of their increased surface area but also because of the fact that the energy released from decomposing the plastic is used to fuel the nano-machines.\n\nIn addition to water treatment and environmental remediation, nanotechnology is currently improving air quality. Nanoparticles can be engineered to catalyze, or hasten, the reaction to transform environmentally pernicious gases into harmless ones. For example, many industrial factories that produce large amounts harmful gases employ a type of nanofiber catalyst made of magnesium oxide (MgO) to purify dangerous organic substances in the smoke. Although chemical catalysts already exist in the gaseous vapors from cars, nanotechnology has a greater chance of reacting with the harmful substances in the vapors. This greater probability comes from the fact that nanotechnology can interact with more particles because of its greater surface area.\n\nNanotechnology has been used to remediate air pollution including car exhaust pollution, and potentially greenhouse gases due to its high surface area. Based on research done by the Environmental Science Pollution Research International, nanotechnology can specifically help to treat carbon-based nanoparticles, greenhouse gases, and volatile organic compounds. There is also work being done to develop antibacterial nanoparticles, metal oxide nanoparticles, and amendment agents for phytoremediation processes. Nanotechnology can also give the possibility of preventing air pollution in the first place due to its extremely small scale. Nanotechnology has been accepted as a tool for many industrial and domestic fields like gas monitoring systems, fire and toxic gas detectors, ventilation control, breath alcohol detectors and many more. Other sources state that nanotechnology has the potential to develop the pollutants sensing and detection methods that already exist. The ability to detect pollutants and sense unwanted materials will be heightened by the large surface area of nanomaterials and their high surface energy. The World Health Organization declared in 2014 that air contamination caused around 7 million deaths in 2012. This new technology could be an essential asset to this epidemic. The three ways that nanotechnology is being used to treat air pollution are nano-adsoptive materials, degradation by nanocatalysis, and filtration/separation by nanofilters. \nNanoscale adsorbents being the main alleviator for many air pollution difficulties. Their structure permits a great interaction with organic compounds as well as increased selectivity and stability in maximum adsorption capacity. Other advantages include high electrical and thermal conductivities, high strength, high hardness. Target pollutants that can be targeted by nanomolecules are 〖NO〗_x, 〖CO〗_2, 〖NH〗_3, N_2, VOCs, Isopropyl vapor, 〖CH〗_3 OH gases, N_2 O, H_2 S. \nCarbon nanotubes specifically remove particles in many ways. One method is by passing them through the nanotubes where the molecules are oxidized; the molecules then are adsorbed on a nitrate species. Carbon nanotubes with amine groups provide numerous chemical sites for carbon dioxide adsorption at low temperature ranges of 20°-100° degrees Celsius. Van der waals forces and π-π interactions also are used to pull molecules onto surface functional groups. Fullerene can be used to rid of carbon dioxide pollution due to its high adsorption capacity. Graphene nanotubes have functional groups that adsorb gases. \nThere are plenty of nanocatalysts that can be used for air pollution reduction and air quality. Some of these materials include 〖TiO〗_2, Vanadium, Platinum, Palladium, Rhodium, and Silver. Catalytic industrial emission reduction, car exhaust reduction, and air purification are just some of the major thrusts that these nanomaterials are being utilized within. Certain applications are not widely spread, but other are more popular. Indoor air pollution is barely on the market yet, but it is being developed more efficiently due to complications with health effects. Car exhaust emission reduction is widely used in diesel fueled automobiles currently being one of the more popular applications. Industrial emission reduction is also widely used. It is n integral method specifically at coal fired power plants as well as refineries. According to Macrothink Institute process control, ecosystem monitoring is becoming more sensitive and precise due to nanotechnology development and research. These methods are analyzed and reviewed using SEM imaging to ensure its usefulness and accuracy.\n\nAdditionally, research is currently being conducted to find out if nanoparticles can be engineered to separate car exhaust from methane or carbon dioxide, which has been known to damage the Earth's ozone layer. In fact, John Zhu, a professor at the University of Queensland, is exploring the creation of a carbon nanotube(CNT) which can trap greenhouse gases hundreds of times more efficiently than current methods can.\n\nPerpetual exposure to heavy metal pollution and particulate matter will lead to health concerns such as lung cancer, heart conditions, and even motor neuron diseases. However, humanity's ability to shield themselves from these health problems can be improved by accurate and swift nanocontact-sensors able to detect pollutants at the atomic level. These nanocontact sensors do not require much energy to detect metal ions or radioactive elements. Additionally, they can be made in automatic mode so that they can be readably used at any given moment. Additionally, these nanocontact sensors are energy and cost effective since they are composed with conventional microelectronic manufacturing equipment using electrochemical techniques.\n\nSome examples of nano-based monitoring include:\n\nAlthough green nanotechnology poses many advantages over traditional methods, there is still much debate about the concerns brought about by nanotechnology. For example, since the nanoparticles are small enough to be absorbed into skin and/or inhaled, countries are mandating that additional research revolving around the impact of nanotechnology on organisms be heavily studied. In fact, the field of eco-nanotoxicology was founded solely to study the effect of nanotechnology on earth and all of its organisms. At the moment, scientists are unsure of what will happen when nanoparticles seep into soil and water, but organizations, such as NanoImpactNet, have set out to study these effects.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23568464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23568464", "title": "Hairshirt environmentalism", "text": "Hairshirt environmentalism\n\nHairshirt environmentalism (or hairshirt-green) refers to the idea that the environmental problems we face can be addressed by limiting our consumption of resources.\n\nA hairshirt (or Cilice) is an undergarment worn to induce discomfort, and thereby lead the wearer to spiritual purity, salvation, or atonement for sin. Similarly, hairshirt environmentalism refers to the belief that denial of material comfort will lead to environmental sustainability.\n\nThis term is often used in a derogatory way in reference to the anti-consumerism present in the environmental movement. The central argument for this usage is that conservation alone will not be enough even if substantial numbers of people can be convinced to conserve, and that not enough people can be convinced to conserve for it to make a substantial difference. It is also used by those having interests in promoting throwaway consumerism to accuse well-meaning environmentalists of stifling personal freedoms. Famously, former Vice President Dick Cheney said \"Conservation may be a sign of personal virtue but it is not a sufficient basis for a sound, comprehensive energy policy\".\n\nThis term is also used by environmentalists that believe changes in technology, or society itself are necessary to make a substantial difference in environmental degradation, and that merely using less of the same technology within the same societal structure will not nearly be enough. Bruce Sterling, in his final closing note of the Viridian Design Movement noted \"Hairshirt-green is the simple-minded inverse of 20th-century consumerism. Like the New Age mystic echo of Judaeo-Christianity, hairshirt-green simply changes the polarity of the dominant culture, without truly challenging it in any effective way. It doesn't do or say anything conceptually novel – nor is it practical, or a working path to a better life.\" \n\nIn Sterling's case, this is clearly not meant to be derogatory to the environmentalist movement as a whole, but rather a challenge to think of transformative ways of changing our society's energy use - not merely gradual ones.\n"}
{"id": "755266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=755266", "title": "Jakaltek language", "text": "Jakaltek language\n\nThe Jakaltek (\"Jacaltec\") language , also known as Jakalteko (\"Jacalteco\") or Popti’, is a Mayan language of Guatemala spoken by 90,000 Jakaltek people in the department of Huehuetenango, and some 500 the adjoining part of Chiapas in southern Mexico. The name Popti' for the language is used by the Academia de Lenguas Mayas de Guatemala and the Guatemalan Congress.\n\nMunicipalities where Jakaltek is spoken include the following (\"Variación Dialectal en Popti', 2000\").\n\n\nThe Eastern Jakaltek language includes the following phonemes. The chart bolds the orthography used by the Academia de Lenguas Mayas de Guatemala when it differs from the IPA symbol.\n\nIt also has the vowels a , e , i , o , u \nEastern Jakaltek is one of the few languages besides the Malagasy language of Madagascar to make use of an n-trema character in its alphabet. In both languages, the n-trema represents a velar nasal consonant (like \"ng\" in \"bang\").\n\nJakaltek-language programming is carried by the CDI's radio station XEVFS, broadcasting from Las Margaritas, Chiapas.\n\nThe Jakaltek language has a verb–subject–object syntax. Like many Native American languages, Jakaltek has complex agglutinative morphology and uses ergative–absolutive case alignment. It is divided in two dialects, Eastern and Western Jakalteko. \"Eastern and Western Jakalteko understand each other's spoken languages, but not written text.\"\n\nJakaltek is unusual in that it as four systems of noun and numeral classifiers.\n\nOwing to Jakaltek's dissimilarity with Indo-European languages, the reasonably healthy linguistic population and the relative ease of access to Guatemala, Jakaltek has become a favorite of students of linguistic typology.\n"}
{"id": "716657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=716657", "title": "Japanese Brazilians", "text": "Japanese Brazilians\n\nThe first Japanese immigrants arrived in Brazil in 1908. Brazil is home to the largest Japanese population outside Japan. According to the IBGE, as of 2009 there were approximately 1.6 million people of Japanese descent in Brazil, and estimated at just under 1.5 million as of 2014. Since the 1980s, a return migration has emerged of Japan Brazilians to Japan. More recently, a trend of interracial marriage has taken hold among Brazilians of Japanese descent, with the racial intermarriage rate approximated at 50% and increasing.\n\nBetween the end of the 19th and early 20th centuries, coffee was the main export product of Brazil. At first, Brazilian farmers used African slave labor in the coffee plantations, but in 1850, the slave trade was abolished in Brazil. To solve the labour shortage, the Brazilian elite decided to attract European immigrants to work on the coffee plantations. This also was in line the government's push towards \"whitening\" the country. The hope was that through procreation the large African and Native American groups would be eliminated or reduced. The government and farmers offered to pay European immigrants' passage. The plan encouraged millions of Europeans, most of them Italians, to migrate to Brazil. However, once in Brazil, the immigrants received very low salaries and worked in poor conditions, including long working hours and frequent ill-treatment by their bosses. Because of this, in 1902, Italy enacted \"Decree Prinetti\", prohibiting subsidized immigration to Brazil.\n\nThe end of feudalism in Japan generated great poverty in the rural population, so many Japanese began to emigrate in search of better living conditions. By the 1930s, Japanese industrialisation had significantly boosted the population. However, prospects for Japanese people to migrate to other countries were limited. The US had banned non-white immigration from some parts of the world on the basis that they would not integrate into society; this Exclusion Clause, of the 1924 Immigration Act, specifically targeted the Japanese. At the same time in Australia, the White Australia Policy prevented the immigration of non-whites to Australia.\n\nIn 1907, the Brazilian and the Japanese governments signed a treaty permitting Japanese migration to Brazil. This was due to the decrease in the Italian immigration to Brazil and a new labor shortage on the coffee plantations.The first Japanese immigrants (790 people – mostly farmers) came to Brazil in 1908 on the \"Kasato Maru\". About half of these immigrants came from southern Okinawa. They travelled from the Japanese port of Kobe via the Cape of Good Hope in South Africa. Many of them became owners of coffee plantations.\n\nIn the first seven years, 3,434 more Japanese families (14,983 people) arrived. The beginning of World War I in 1914 started a boom in Japanese migration to Brazil; such that between 1917 and 1940 over 164,000 Japanese came to Brazil, 75% of them going to São Paulo, where most of the coffee plantations were located.\n\nThe vast majority of Japanese immigrants intended to work a few years in Brazil, make some money, and go home. However, \"getting rich quick\" was a dream that was almost impossible to achieve. The immigrants were paid a very low salary and worked long hours of exhausting work. Also, everything that the immigrants consumed had to be purchased from the landowner (see truck system). Soon, their debts became very significant.\nThe land owners in Brazil still had a slavery mentality. Immigrants, although employees, had to confront the rigidity and lack of labour laws. Indebted and subjected to hours of exhaustive work, often suffering physical violence, the immigrants saw the as an alternative to escape the situation. Suicide, \"yonige\" (to escape at night), and strikes were some of the attitudes taken by many Japanese because of the exploitation on coffee farms.\n\nThe barrier of language, religion, dietary habits, clothing, lifestyles and differences in climate entailed a culture shock. Many immigrants tried to return to Japan but were prevented by Brazilian farmers, who required them to comply with the contract and work with the coffee.\n\nOn August 1, 1908, \"The New York Times\" remarked that relations between Brazil and Japan at the time were \"not extremely cordial\", because of \"the attitude of Brazil toward the immigration of Japanese laborers.\"\n\nJapanese children born in Brazil were educated in schools founded by the Japanese community. Most only learned to speak the Japanese language and lived within the Japanese community in rural areas. Over the years, many Japanese managed to buy their own land and became small farmers. They started to plant strawberries, tea and rice. Only 6% of children were the result of interracial relationships. Immigrants rarely accepted marriage with a non-Japanese person.\n\nOn July 28, 1921, representatives Andrade Bezerra and Cincinato Braga proposed a law whose Article 1 provided: \"The immigration of individuals from the black race to Brazil is prohibited.\" On October 22, 1923, representative Fidélis Reis produced another bill on the entry of immigrants, whose fifth article was as follows: \"The entry of settlers from the black race into Brazil is prohibited. For Asian [immigrants] there will be allowed each year a number equal to 5% of those residing in the country. . . .\"\n\nSome years before World War II, the government of President Getúlio Vargas initiated a process of forced assimilation of people of immigrant origin in Brazil. The Constitution of 1934 had a legal provision about the subject: \"The concentration of immigrants anywhere in the country is prohibited, the law should govern the selection, location and assimilation of the alien\". The assimilationist project affected mainly German, Italian, Jewish, Japanese immigrants and their descendants.\n\nIn the government's conception, the non-White population of Brazil should disappear within the dominant class of Portuguese Brazilian origin. This way, the mixed-race population should be \"whitened\" through selective mixing, then a preference for European immigration. In consequence, the non-white population would, gradually, achieve a desirable White phenotype. The government focused on Italians, Jews, and Japanese. The formation of \"ethnic cysts\" among immigrants of non-Portuguese origin prevented the realization of the whitening project of the Brazilian population. The government, then, started to act on these communities of foreign origin to force them to integrate into a \"Brazilian culture\" with Portuguese roots. It was the dominant idea of a unification of all the inhabitants of Brazil under a single \"national spirit\". During World War II, Brazil severed relations with Japan. Japanese newspapers and teaching the Japanese language in schools were banned, leaving Portuguese as the only option for Japanese descendants. Newspapers in German or Italian were also advised to cease production, as Germany and Italy were Japan's allies in the war. In 1939, research of Estrada de Ferro Noroeste do Brasil, from São Paulo, showed that 87.7% of Japanese Brazilians read newspapers in the Japanese language, a high figure for a country with many illiterate people like Brazil at the time.\n\nThe Japanese appeared as undesirable immigrants within the \"whitening\" and assimilationist policy of the Brazilian government. Oliveira Viana, a Brazilian jurist, historian and sociologist described the Japanese immigrants as follows: \"They (Japanese) are like sulfur: insoluble\". The Brazilian magazine \"O Malho\" in its edition of December 5, 1908 issued a charge of Japanese immigrants with the following legend: \"The government of São Paulo is stubborn. After the failure of the first Japanese immigration, it contracted 3,000 yellow people. It insists on giving Brazil a race diametrically opposite to ours\". In 1941, the Brazilian Minister of Justice, Francisco Campos, defended the ban on admission of 400 Japanese immigrants in São Paulo and wrote: \"their despicable standard of living is a brutal competition with the country’s worker; their selfishness, their bad faith, their refractory character, make them a huge ethnic and cultural cyst located in the richest regions of Brazil\".\n\nThe Japanese Brazilian community was strongly marked by restrictive measures when Brazil declared war against Japan in August 1942. Japanese Brazilians could not travel the country without safe conduct issued by the police; over 200 Japanese schools were closed and radio equipment was seized to prevent transmissions on short wave from Japan. The goods of Japanese companies were confiscated and several companies of Japanese origin had interventions, including the newly founded Banco América do Sul. Japanese Brazilians were prohibited from driving motor vehicles (even if they were taxi drivers), buses or trucks on their property. The drivers employed by Japanese had to have permission from the police. Thousands of Japanese immigrants were arrested or expelled from Brazil on suspicion of espionage. There were many anonymous denunciations of \"activities against national security\" arising from disagreements between neighbors, recovery of debts and even fights between children. Japanese Brazilians were arrested for \"suspicious activity\" when they were in artistic meetings or picnics. On July 10, 1943, approximately 10,000 Japanese and German immigrants who lived in Santos had 24 hours to close their homes and businesses and move away from the Brazilian coast. The police acted without any notice. About 90% of people displaced were Japanese. To reside in Baixada Santista, the Japanese had to have a safe conduct. In 1942, the Japanese community who introduced the cultivation of pepper in Tomé-Açu, in Pará, was virtually turned into a \"concentration camp\". This time, the Brazilian ambassador in Washington, D.C., Carlos Martins Pereira e Sousa, encouraged the government of Brazil to transfer all the Japanese Brazilians to \"internment camps\" without the need for legal support, in the same manner as was done with the Japanese residents in the United States. No single suspicion of activities of Japanese against \"national security\" was confirmed.\n\nDuring the National Constituent Assembly of 1946, Rio Miguel Couto Filho proposed Amendments to the Constitution as follows: \"It is prohibited the entry of Japanese immigrants of any age and any origin in the country\". In the final vote, a tie with 99 votes in favor and 99 against. Senator Fernando de Melo Viana, who chaired the session of the Constituent Assembly, had the casting vote and rejected the constitutional amendment. By only one vote, the immigration of Japanese people to Brazil was not prohibited by the Brazilian Constitution of 1946.\n\nThe Japanese immigrants appeared to the Brazilian government as undesirable and non-assimilable immigrants. As Asian, they did not contribute to the \"whitening\" process of the Brazilian people as desired by the ruling Brazilian elite. In this process of forced assimilation the Japanese, more than any other immigrant group, suffered the ethno-cultural persecution imposed during this period.\n\nFor decades, Japanese Brazilians were seen as a non-assimilable people. The immigrants were treated only as a reserve of cheap labour that should be used on coffee plantations and that Brazil should avoid absorbing their cultural influences. This widespread conception that the Japanese were negative for Brazil was changed in the following decades. The Japanese were able to overcome the difficulties along the years and drastically improve their lives through hard work and education; this was also facilitated by the involvement of the Japanese government in the process of migration. The image of hard working agriculturists that came to help develop the country and agriculture helped erase the lack of trust of the local population and create a positive image of the Japanese. In the 1970s, Japan became one of the richest countries of the world, synonymous with modernity and progress. In the same period, Japanese Brazilians achieved a great cultural and economic success, probably the immigrant group that most rapidly achieved progress in Brazil. Due to the powerful Japanese economy and due to the rapid enrichment of the Nisei, in the last decades Brazilians of Japanese descent achieved a social prestige in Brazil that largely contrasts with the aggression with which the early immigrants were treated in the country.\n\nNowadays as of 2008, many Japanese Brazilians belong to the third generation (sansei), who make up 41.33% of the community. First generation (issei) are 12.51%, second generation (nisei) are 30.85% and fourth generation (yonsei) 12.95%.\n\nA more recent phenomenon in Brazil is intermarriages between Japanese Brazilians and non-ethnic Japanese. Though people of Japanese descent make up only 0.8% of the country's population, they are the largest Japanese community outside Japan, with over 1.4 million people. In areas with large numbers of Japanese, such as São Paulo and Paraná, since the 1970s, large numbers of Japanese descendants started to marry into other ethnic groups. Jeffrey Lesser's work has shown the complexities of integration both during the Vargas era, and more recently during the dictatorship (1964–1984)\n\nNowadays, among the 1.4 million Brazilians of Japanese descent, 28% have some non-Japanese ancestry. This number reaches only 6% among children of Japanese immigrants, but 61% among great-grandchildren of Japanese immigrants.\n\nImmigrants, as well as most Japanese, were mostly followers of Shinto and Buddhism. In the Japanese communities in Brazil, there was a strong effort by Brazilian priests to proselytize the Japanese. More recently, intermarriage with Catholics also contributed to the growth of Catholicism in the community. Currently, 60% of Japanese-Brazilians are Roman Catholics and 25% are adherents of a Japanese religion.\n\nThe Japanese immigration to Brazil, in particular the immigration of the judoka Mitsuyo Maeda, resulted in the development of one of the most effective modern martial arts, Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu.\n\nThe knowledge of the Japanese and Portuguese languages reflects the integration of the Japanese in Brazil over several generations. Although first generation immigrants will often not learn Portuguese well or not use it frequently, most second generation are bilingual. The third generation, however, are most likely monolingual in Portuguese or speak, along with Portuguese, non-fluent Japanese.\n\nA study conducted in the Japanese Brazilian communities of Aliança and Fukuhaku, both in the state of São Paulo, released information on the language spoken by these people. Before coming to Brazil, 12.2% of the first generation interviewed from Aliança reported they had studied the Portuguese language in Japan, and 26.8% said to have used it once on arrival in Brazil. Many of the Japanese immigrants took classes of Portuguese and learned about the history of Brazil before migrating to the country. In Fukuhaku only 7.7% of the people reported they had studied Portuguese in Japan, but 38.5% said they had contact with Portuguese once on arrival in Brazil. All the immigrants reported they spoke exclusively Japanese at home in the first years in Brazil. However, in 2003, the figure dropped to 58.5% in Aliança and 33.3% in Fukuhaku. This probably reflects that through contact with the younger generations of the family, who speak mostly Portuguese, many immigrants also began to speak Portuguese at home.\n\nThe first Brazilian-born generation, the Nisei, alternate between the use of Portuguese and Japanese. Regarding the use of Japanese at home, 64.3% of Nisei informants from Aliança and 41.5% from Fukuhaku used Japanese when they were children. In comparison, only 14.3% of the third generation, Sansei, reported to speak Japanese at home when they were children. It reflects that the second generation was mostly educated by their Japanese parents using the Japanese language. On the other hand, the third generation did not have much contact with their grandparent's language, and most of them speak the national language of Brazil, Portuguese, as their mother tongue.\n\nJapanese Brazilians usually speak Japanese more often when they live along with a first generation relative. Those who do not live with a Japanese-born relative usually speak Portuguese more often. Japanese spoken in Brazil is usually a mix of different Japanese dialects, since the Japanese community in Brazil came from all regions of Japan, influenced by the Portuguese language. The high numbers of Brazilian immigrants returning from Japan will probably produce more Japanese speakers in Brazil.\n\nAccording to the IBGE, as of 2000 there were 70,932 Japanese-born immigrants living in Brazil (compared to the 158,087 found in 1970). Of the Japanese, 51,445 lived in São Paulo. Most of the immigrants were over 60 years old, because the Japanese immigration to Brazil has ended since the mid-20th century.\n\nIn 2008, IBGE published a book about the Japanese diaspora and it estimated that, as of 2000, there were 1,405,685 people of Japanese descent in Brazil. The Japanese immigration was concentrated to São Paulo and, still in 2000, 49.3% of Japanese Brazilians lived in this state. There were 693,495 people of Japanese origin in São Paulo, followed by Paraná with 143,588. More recently, Brazilians of Japanese descent are making presence in places that used to have a small population of this group. For example: in 1960, there were 532 Japanese Brazilians in Bahia, while in 2000 they were 78,449, or 0.6% of the state's population. Northern Brazil (excluding Pará) saw its Japanese population increase from 2,341 in 1960 (0.2% of the total population) to 54,161 (0.8%) in 2000. During the same period, in Central-Western Brazil they increased from 3,582 to 66,119 (0.7% of the population). However, the overall Japanese population in Brazil is shrinking, secondary to a decreased birth rate and an aging population; return immigration to Japan, as well as intermarriage with other races and dilution of ethnic identity.\n\nFor the whole Brazil, with over 1.4 million people of Japanese descent, the largest percentages were found in the states of São Paulo (1.9% of Japanese descent), Paraná (1.5%) and Mato Grosso do Sul (1.4%). The smallest percentages were found in Roraima and Alagoas (with only 8 Japanese). The percentage of Brazilians with Japanese roots largely increased among children and teenagers. In 1991, 0.6% of Brazilians between 0 and 14 years old were of Japanese descent. In 2000, they were 4%, as a result of the returning of Dekasegis (Brazilians of Japanese descent who work in Japan) to Brazil.\n\nA 2008 census revealed details about the population of Japanese origin from the city of Maringá in Paraná, making it possible to have a profile of the Japanese-Brazilian population.\n\nThere were 4,034 families of Japanese descent from Maringá, comprising 14,324 people.\n\n1,846 or 15% of Japanese Brazilians from Maringá were working in Japan.\n\nOf the 12,478 people of Japanese origin living in Maringá, 6.61% were Issei (born in Japan); 35.45% were Nisei (children of Japanese); 37.72% were Sansei (grandchildren) and 13.79% were Yonsei (great-grandchildren).\n\nThe average age was of 40.12 years old\n\n52% of Japanese Brazilians from the city were women.\n\n2.4 children (similar to the average Southern Brazilian woman)\n\nMost were Roman Catholics (32% of Sansei, 27% of Nisei, 10% of Yonsei and 2% of Issei). Protestant religions were the second most followed (6% of Nisei, 6% of Sansei, 2% of Yonsei and 1% of Issei) and next was Buddhism (5% of Nisei, 3% of Issei, 2% of Sansei and 1% of Yonsei).\n\n49.66% were married.\n\n47% can understand, read and write in Japanese. 31% of the second generation and 16% of the third generation can speak Japanese.\n\n31% elementary education; 30% secondary school and 30% higher education.\n\n20% were mixed-race (have some non-Japanese origin).\n\nDuring the 1980s, the Japanese economic situation improved and achieved stability. Many Japanese Brazilians went to Japan as contract workers due to economic and political problems in Brazil, and they were termed \"Dekasegi\". Working visas were offered to Brazilian Dekasegis in 1990, encouraging more immigration from Brazil.\n\nIn 1990, the Japanese government authorized the legal entry of Japanese and their descendants until the third generation in Japan. At that time, Japan was receiving a large number of illegal immigrants from Pakistan, Bangladesh, China, and Thailand. The legislation of 1990 was intended to select immigrants who entered Japan, giving a clear preference for Japanese descendants from South America, especially Brazil. These people were lured to Japan to work in areas that the Japanese refused (the so-called \"three K\": \"Kitsui\", \"Kitanai\" and \"Kiken\" – hard, dirty and dangerous). Many Japanese Brazilians began to immigrate. The influx of Japanese descendants from Brazil to Japan was and continues to be large: there are over 300,000 Brazilians living in Japan today, mainly as workers in factories.\n\nBecause of their Japanese ancestry, the Japanese Government believed that Brazilians would be more easily integrated into Japanese society. In fact, this easy integration did not happen, since Japanese Brazilians and their children born in Japan are treated as foreigners by native Japanese. This apparent contradiction between being and seeming causes conflicts of adaptation for the migrants and their acceptance by the natives.\n\nThey also constitute the largest number of Portuguese speakers in Asia, greater than those of formerly Portuguese East Timor, Macau and Goa combined. Likewise, Brazil, alongside the Japanese American population of the United States, maintains its status as home to the largest Japanese community outside Japan.\n\nCities and prefectures with the most Brazilians in Japan are: Hamamatsu, Aichi, Shizuoka, Kanagawa, Saitama, and Gunma. Brazilians in Japan are usually educated. However, they are employed in the Japanese automotive and electronics factories. Most Brazilians go to Japan attracted by the recruiting agencies (legal or illegal) in conjunction with the factories. Many Brazilians are subjected to hours of exhausting work, earning a small salary by Japanese standards. Nevertheless, in 2002, Brazilians living in Japan sent US$2.5 billion to Brazil.\n\nDue to the financial crisis of 2007–2010, many Brazilians returned from Japan to Brazil. From January 2011 to March, it is estimated that 20,000 Brazilian immigrants left Japan.\n\nIn Japan, many Japanese Brazilians suffer prejudice because they do not know how to speak Japanese fluently. Despite their Japanese appearance, Brazilians in Japan are culturally Brazilians, usually only speaking Portuguese, and are treated as foreigners.\n\nThe children of \"Dekasegi\" Brazilians encounter difficulties in Japanese schools. Thousands of Brazilian children are out of school in Japan.\n\nAcademic studies report that many Japanese Brazilians felt (and were often treated) as Japanese in Brazil. But when they move to Japan, they realize that they strongly feel their Brazilian background. In Brazil, Japanese Brazilians rarely listened to samba or participated in a carnival parade. However, once in Japan, Japanese Brazilians often promote carnivals and samba festivities in the Japanese cities to demonstrate their pride of being Brazilian.\n\nThe Brazilian influence in Japan is growing. Tokyo has the largest carnival parade outside of Brazil itself. Portuguese is the third most spoken foreign language in Japan, after Chinese and Korean, and is among the most studied languages by students in the country. In Oizumi, it is estimated that 15% of the population speak Portuguese as their native language. Japan has two newspapers in the Portuguese language, besides radio and television stations spoken in that language. The Brazilian fashion and Bossa Nova music are also popular among Japanese. In 2005, there were an estimated 302,000 Brazilian nationals in Japan, of whom 25,000 also hold Japanese citizenship.\n\nIn 2008, many celebrations took place in Japan and Brazil to remember the centenary of Japanese immigration. Prince Naruhito of Japan arrived in Brazil on June 17 to participate in the celebrations. He visited Brasília, São Paulo, Paraná, Minas Gerais and Rio de Janeiro. Throughout his stay in Brazil, the Prince was received by a crowd of Japanese immigrants and their descendants. He broke the protocol of the Japanese Monarchy, which prohibits physical contact with people, and greeted the Brazilian people. In the São Paulo sambódromo, the Prince spoke to 50,000 people and in Paraná to 75,000. He also visited the University of São Paulo, where people of Japanese descent make up 14% of the 80,000 students. Naruhito gave a speech in Portuguese.\n\nIn São Paulo there are two Japanese publications, the \"São Paulo Shimbun\" and the \"Nikkey Shimbun\". The former was established in 1946 and the latter was established in 1998. The latter has a Portuguese edition, the \"Jornal Nippak\", and both publications have Portuguese websites. The \"Jornal Paulista\", established in 1947, and the \"Diário Nippak\", established in 1949, are the predecessors of the \"Nikkey Shimbun\".\n\nThe \"Nambei\", published in 1916, was Brazil's first Japanese newspaper. In 1933 90% of East Asian-origin Brazilians read Japanese publications, including 20 periodicals, 15 magazines, and five newspapers. The increase of the number of publications was due to Japanese immigration to Brazil. The government banned publication of Japanese newspapers during World War II.\n\nTatiane Matheus of \"Estadão\" stated that in the pre-World War II period the \"Nippak Shimbun\", established in 1916; the \"Burajiru Jiho\", established in 1917; and two newspapers established in 1932, the \"Nippon Shimbun\" and the \"Seishu Shino\", were the most influential Japanese newspapers. All were published in São Paulo.\n\nJapanese international day schools in Brazil include the Escola Japonesa de São Paulo (\"São Paulo Japanese School\"), the Associação Civil de Divulgação Cultural e Educacional Japonesa do Rio de Janeiro in the Cosme Velho neighborhood of Rio de Janeiro, and the Escola Japonesa de Manaus. The Escola Japonesa de Belo Horizonte (ベロ・オリゾンテ日本人学校), and Japanese schools in Belém and Vitória previously existed; all three closed, and their certifications by the Japanese education ministry (MEXT) were revoked on March 29, 2002 (Heisei 14).\n\nThere are also supplementary schools teaching the Japanese language and culture. As of 2003, in southern Brazil there are hundreds of Japanese supplementary schools. The Japan Foundation in São Paulo's coordinator of projects in 2003 stated that São Paulo State has about 500 supplementary schools. Around 33% of the Japanese supplementary schools in southeastern Brazil are in the city of São Paulo. As of 2003 almost all of the directors of the São Paulo schools were women.\n\nMEXT recognizes one part-time Japanese school (hoshu jugyo ko or hoshuko), the Escola Suplementar Japonesa Curitiba in Curitiba. MEXT-approved hoshukos in Porto Alegre and Salvador have closed.\n\nThe Taisho School, Brazil's first Japanese language school, opened in 1915 in São Paulo. In some areas full-time Japanese schools opened because no local schools existed in the vicinity of the Japanese settlements. In 1932 over 10,000 Nikkei Brazilian children attended almost 200 Japanese supplementary schools in São Paulo. By 1938 Brazil had a total of 600 Japanese schools.\n\nIn 1970, 22,000 students, taught by 400 teachers, attended 350 supplementary Japanese schools. In 1992 there were 319 supplementary Japanese language schools in Brazil with a total of 18,782 students, 10,050 of them being female and 8,732 of them being male. Of the schools, 111 were in São Paulo State and 54 were in Paraná State. At the time, the São Paulo Metropolitan Area had 95 Japanese schools, and the schools in the city limits of São Paulo had 6,916 students.\n\nIn the 1980s, São Paulo Japanese supplementary schools were larger than those in other communities. In general, during that decade a Brazilian supplementary Japanese school had one or two teachers responsible for around 60 students.\n\nHiromi Shibata, a PhD student at the University of São Paulo, wrote the dissertation \"As escolas japonesas paulistas (1915–1945)\", published in 1997. Jeff Lesser, author of \"Negotiating National Identity: Immigrants, Minorities, and the Struggle for Ethnicity in Brazil\", wrote that she \"suggests\" that the Japanese schools in São Paulo \"were as much an affirmation of Nipo-Brazilian identity as they were of Japanese nationalism.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2574829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2574829", "title": "Japanese family", "text": "Japanese family\n\nThe family is called in Japanese. It is basically composed of a couple as is the family in other societies. The Japanese family is based on the line of descent and adoption. Ancestors and offspring are linked together by an idea of family genealogy, or \"keizu\", which does not mean relationships based on mere blood inheritance and succession, but rather a bond of relationship inherent in the maintenance and continuance of the family as an institution.\n\nIn any given period of history, all family members have been expected to contribute to the perpetuation of the family, which is held to be the highest duty of the member.\n\nA great number of family forms have existed historically in Japan, from the matrilocal customs of the Heian.\n\nAs official surveys conducted during the early years of the Meiji dynasty demonstrated, the most common family form during the Edo (Tokugawa) period was characterized by patrivirilocal residence, stem structure, patrilineal descent and patrilineal primogeniture, so a set of laws were promulgated institutionalizing this family pattern, beginning with the \"Outline of the New Criminal Law\" in 1870. In 1871, individuals were registered in an official .\n\nIn the early twentieth century, each family was required to conform to the system, with a multigenerational household under the legal authority of a household head. In establishing the \"ie\" system, the government moved the ideology of family in the opposite direction of trends resulting from urbanization and industrialization. The ie system took as its model for the family the Confucian-influenced pattern of the upper classes of the Tokugawa period.\n\nAuthority and responsibility for all members of the \"ie\" lay legally with the household head. Each generation supplied a male and female adult, with a preference for inheritance by the first son and for patrilocal marriage. When possible, daughters were expected to marry out, and younger sons were expected to establish their own households.\n\nAfter World War II, the Allied occupation forces established a new family ideology based on equal rights for women, equal inheritance by all children, and free choice of spouse and career. From the late 1960s, most marriages in Japan have been based on the mutual attraction of the couple and not the . Moreover, arranged marriages might begin with an introduction by a relative or family friend, but actual negotiations do not begin until all parties, including the bride and groom, are satisfied with the relationship.\n\nUnder the ie system, only a minority of households included three generations at a time because nonsuccessor sons (those who were not heirs) often set up their own household. From 1970 to 1983, the proportion of three-generation households fell from 19% to 15% of all households, while two generation households consisting of a couple and their unmarried children increased only slightly, from 41% to 42% of all households. The greatest change has been the increase in couple-only households and in elderly single-person households.\n\nPublic opinion surveys in the late 1980s seemed to confirm the statistical movement away from the three-generation ie family model. Half of the respondents did not think that the first son had a special role to play in the family, and nearly two-thirds rejected the need for Mukoyōshi adoption of a son in order to continue the family. Other changes, such as an increase in filial violence and school refusal, suggest a breakdown of strong family authority.\n\nOfficial statistics indicate that Japanese concepts of family continued to diverge from those in the United States in the 1980s. The divorce rate, although increasing slowly, remained at 1.3 per 1,000 marriages in 1987, low by international standards. Strong gender roles remained the cornerstone of family responsibilities. Most survey respondents said that family life should emphasize parent-child ties over husband-wife relations. Nearly 80% of respondents in a 1986 government survey believed that the ancestral home and family grave should be carefully kept and handed on to one's children. More than 60% thought it best for elderly parents to live with one of their children.\n\nThis sense of family as a unit that continues through time is stronger among people who have a livelihood to pass down, such as farmers, merchants, owners of small companies, and physicians, than among urban salary and wage earners. Anthropologist Jane M. Bachnik noted the continued emphasis on continuity in the rural families she studied. Uchi (here, the contemporary family) were considered the living members of an ie, which had no formal existence. Yet, in each generation, there occurred a sorting of members into permanent and temporary members, defining different levels of uchi.\n\nVarious family life-styles exist side by side in contemporary Japan. In many urban salaryman families, the husband may commute to work and return late, having little time with his children except for Sundays, a favorite day for family outings. The wife might be a \"professional housewife\", with nearly total responsibility for raising children, ensuring their careers and marriages, running the household, and managing the family budget. She also has primary responsibility for maintaining social relations with the wider circles of relatives, neighbors, and acquaintances and for managing the family's reputation. Her social life remains separate from that of her husband. It is increasingly likely that in addition to these family responsibilities, she may also have a part-time job or participate in adult education or other community activities. The closest emotional ties within such families are between the mother and children.\n\nIn other families, particularly among the self-employed, husband and wife work side by side in a family business. Although gender-based roles are clear cut, they might not be as rigidly distinct as in a household where work and family are more separated. In such families, fathers are more involved in their children's development because they have more opportunity for interacting with them.\n\nAs women worked outside of the home with increasing frequency beginning in the 1970s, there was pressure on their husbands to take on more responsibility for housework and child care. Farm families, who depend on nonfarm employment for most of their income, are also developing patterns of interaction different from those of previous generations.\n\nThe monogamous and patriarchal family has been prevalent since the 8th century. If a wife were childless the husband often kept a concubine, whose offspring succeeded to the headship of the family, thus securing its continuation. When neither wife nor concubine bore him a child, custom allowed the family head to adopt a successor.\n\nFamily members may die under no circumstances\n\nIn the traditional Japanese family, one male offspring who is to succeed to the headship of the family lives with his parents after his marriage. He assumes the headship and has to take care of the parents when they have become aged. In addition, he is responsible for the support of \"bokei\" member and directs the labor of family members in the management of the household. Couples in successive generations live together under the same roof.\n\nSuccession in the Japanese family does not simply mean inheritance of the deceased’s property; and the inheritance of property itself has a distinctive meaning, which reflects the institutional demands of the family. Succession in Japan means \"katokusozoku\", or succession to family headship.\n\n\"Katokusozoku\" aims to achieve directly the continuation of the family as an institution. The patriarch, responsible for family continuation, has to decide in advance who is the man to succeed him in the event of his death. He usually selects a certain son as the candidate for his successor. When he has no offspring at all, the patriarch often adopts both a boy as his successor and a girl as the successor’s wife. In Mukoyōshi adoption, it does not matter whether or not the boy and the girl concerned have blood relationship with the patriarch or with his wife.\n\nThe traditional ideal of the \"ie\" system designates the oldest son as an heir to the family, and expects his family to live with his parents. When the oldest son is not available or not able to assume this position, one of the younger sons may do so. The elderly parents may opt for living with one of their married daughters, usually when they have no available son. Implied here is a sex/age hierarchy in terms of living with the parents, descending from oldest son to youngest son, and oldest to youngest daughter. It thus can be expected that oldest sons and oldest daughters without brothers are more likely to live with their parents than other children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18131025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18131025", "title": "Kenneth Zucker", "text": "Kenneth Zucker\n\nKenneth J. Zucker (; born 1950) is an American-Canadian psychologist and sexologist. He was named Editor-in-Chief of \"Archives of Sexual Behavior\" in 2001. He was Psychologist-in-Chief at Toronto's Centre for Addiction and Mental Health and Head of the Gender Identity Service until December, 2015. Zucker is a professor in the Departments of Psychiatry and Psychology at the University of Toronto.\n\nHe collaborated with Susan Bradley, collecting clinical and research data over a period of twenty years and became an international authority on gender identity disorder in children (GIDC) and adolescents. In 2007, Zucker was chosen to be a member of the American Psychological Association Task Force on Gender Identity, Gender Variance, and Intersex Conditions, and in 2008 he was named chair of the American Psychiatric Association workgroup on \"Sexual and Gender Identity Disorders\" for the 2012 edition of the DSM-5. He previously served on workgroups for the DSM-IV and the DSM-IV-TR.\n\nHis views are controversial in the transgender community, which led to an external review of the clinic in 2015. \nZucker was featured in a 2017 BBC2 Documentary.\n\nZucker was born in 1950 to Jewish parents and grew up in Skokie, Illinois. Zucker received his B.A. from Southern Illinois University, his M.A. from Roosevelt University, and his Ph.D. from University of Toronto in 1982. He holds a certification from College of Psychologists of Ontario.\n\nZucker became interested in gender identity after reading Richard Green's 1974 book \"Sexual Identity Conflict in Children and Adults\". Zucker's graduate work in developmental psychology resulted in his master's thesis on normative gender identity development in children. While in graduate school, Zucker met his future collaborator, Susan J. Bradley, a child psychiatrist on staff at the Child and Adolescent Service of the Clarke Institute of Psychiatry (now the Child and Family Studies Centre of the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health), a public mental health centre and teaching hospital of the University of Toronto Faculty of Medicine.\n\nZucker was impressed with the Clarke Institute and met with then chief of psychology, Kingsley Ferguson, who told Zucker of Bradley's new working group assessing children and adolescents with gender identity problems. He joined Bradley's group.\n\nSince the mid-1970s, Zucker has treated about 500 preadolescent gender-variant children to have them accept the gender identity they were assigned at birth until they are at an age he believes they may determine their own gender identity. For children assigned as male at birth, Zucker reportedly asked parents to take away toys associated with girls and to instruct their child not to play alongside or draw pictures of girls, although the parent that originally made this claim has more recently expressed that there was a miscommunication in the original interview and that such directives were to treat the social isolation that stemmed from her son's obsession with dolls. Psychologist Darryl Hill wrote that Zucker and Bradley believed that reparative treatments can reduce rejection by enabling gender non-conforming children to mix with children of the same sex, reducing the possibility of adult gender dysphoria.\n\nAmong Zucker's publications is the case history of two patients who were male by birth but suffered a penectomy and were shortly thereafter reassigned as female. At age 26 both denied ever feeling the desire to be male. Both patients reported more masculine behavior and bisexuality, about which Zucker suspects that gender role and sexual orientation develop mostly before birth while gender identity development begins shortly after birth. There is some support for the position that \"prenatal sex differentiation can at least sometimes trump social influences.\"\n\nZucker says parents set the goals at his clinic. \"We recommend that one goal be to help the child feel more secure about his or her actual gender, another to deal with the child's emotional difficulties, and a third to help with problems in the family. It's helpful to have parents set limits on things like cross-dressing, which many parents have not done before coming to us.\" Zucker's follow-up of 50 treated children found that \"about 10 percent are still very unhappy about their gender, still cross-dressing, and thinking about having sex reassignment surgery\" as young adults. Zucker has stated that \"the therapist must rely on the 'clinical wisdom' that has accumulated and to utilize largely untested case formulation conceptual models to inform treatment approaches and decisions.\"\n\nZucker coauthored a statistical report with J. Michael Bailey that found gay men and lesbians exhibited more cross-gender activity as children.\n\nFor adolescent clients expressing gender identity disorder, Zucker's treatment protocol resembles that for adult GID, consisting of hormone replacement therapy to aid the adolescent in a social transition. Since sex reassignment surgery is not generally performed on minors in North America, Zucker's clinic does not provide recommendations for it – instead, clients are encouraged to pursue reassignment through the adult Gender Identity Clinic at CAMH, which controls funding for the procedure in Ontario.\n\nActivists have compared Zucker's approaches with reparative therapy. The Gay and Lesbian Medical Association believes \"'reparative' therapy that seeks to reverse sexual orientation or gender identification\" is an \"extreme example\" of bias that \"may lead to increased self hatred and mental health problems.\" Psychiatrist Simon Pickstone-Taylor has cited similarities between Zucker's therapeutic intervention and reparative therapy for homosexuals. Zucker responded that prevention of homosexuality was never a goal in their treatments and cites a lack of empirical evidence for the most effective approach. Journalist Marc Lostracco described Zucker's therapy as \"well-meaning\" but \"problematic and harsh.\" Others, like author Phyllis Burke, object to any diagnosis of GID in children, considering it to be \"child abuse.\" Zucker dismisses Burke's book as \"simplistic\" and \"not particularly illuminating;\" journalist Stephanie Wilkinson said Zucker characterized Burke's book as \"the work of a journalist whose views shouldn't be put into the same camp as those of scientists like Richard Green or himself.\"\n\nAs editor of \"Archives of Sexual Behavior\", Zucker published a controversial study on reparative therapy by Robert Spitzer. According to \"The New York Times\", after his presentation of the study caused controversy, Spitzer asked Zucker to publish it. \"I knew Bob and the quality of his work, and I agreed to publish it,\" Zucker said in an interview. \"But I told him I would do it only if I also published commentaries\". Spitzer later recanted the study's conclusions.\n\nLGBT activists spoke out against Zucker's 2008 appointment to the DSM-5 working group. The National Gay and Lesbian Task Force issued a statement questioning the APA's decision to appoint Zucker and a second member of the work panel. According to a response released by American Psychiatric Association, Zucker does not advocate reparative therapy for transgender adults or for trans youth in all cases, and he opposes change therapy for gay people under all circumstances.\n\nZucker's treatment protocol came under scrutiny in March 2015 when Cheri DiNovo MPP tabled a private member's bill that banned conversion therapies for gender identity or sexual orientation. Zucker's gender identity clinic stopped accepting new patients the same month, awaiting the result of an ongoing review of the practice. CAMH director Kwame McKenzie said that Zucker's treatments were against the centre's guidelines, but that there exist two groups of thinking on such therapy for children under 11 among professionals. The review was expected to take six months.\n\nAfter that review, CAMH shut its Child Youth and Family Gender Identity Clinic in December 2015. The reviewers, Suzanne Zinck of Dalhousie University and Antonio Pignatiello of Toronto's Hospital for Sick Children noted numerous strengths of the clinic, but also described it as an insular entity with an approach dissimilar from other clinics. Zinck and Pignatiello invited stakeholders to comment on their experiences in the clinic. A former client, now an adult, claimed Zucker “asked him to remove his shirt in front of other clinicians present, laughed when he complied, and then referred to him as a ‘hairy little vermin.’” The accusation was subsequently retracted by the accuser. CAMH removed the report from its website and apologized, and replaced it with a summary of the report.\nKwame McKenzie, medical director of CAMH's child, youth, and family services, said “We want to apologize for the fact that not all of the practices in our childhood gender identity clinic are in step with the latest thinking” and that Zucker is “no longer at CAMH.” CAMH announced a process of consultation with community leaders to examine how best to offer care.\n\nIn October 2018, CAMH apologized to, and settled with, Zucker for errors in evaluating his clinical practice and interactions with patients. According to the settlement documents, the centre will pay him $586,000 in damages, legal fees and interest. To the CBC, \"CAMH stands by its decision to close the child and youth gender identity clinic following an external review which concluded the clinic was not meeting the needs of gender expansive and trans children and their families,\" the centre said in a statement on Sunday [October 7, 2018].\n\"We believe our modernized approach to delivering services to youth better supports diverse patients through best practice and timely care.\"\n\nAccording to the Web of Science, Zucker has published almost 100 articles in peer-reviewed journals. These articles have been cited over 2000 times, with an h-index of 20. He has published several books, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "32630668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32630668", "title": "Ketagalan language", "text": "Ketagalan language\n\nKetagalan (Ketangalan, Tangalan) () was a Formosan language spoken south of modern-day Taipei in northern Taiwan by the Ketagalan people. The language has become extinct.\n\nLi (1992) distinguishes six Ketagalan dialects (alternatively called the \"Basaic\" group of Eastern Formosan).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "791417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=791417", "title": "Khalkha Mongols", "text": "Khalkha Mongols\n\nThe Khalkha (, \"Halh\" ) is the largest subgroup of Mongol people in Mongolia since the 15th century. The Khalkha, together with Chahars, Ordos and Tumed, were directly ruled by Borjigin khans until the 20th century; unlike the Oirats, who were ruled by Dzungar nobles, or the Khorchins, who were ruled by Qasar's descendants. \n\nThe two original major Khalkha groups were ruled by the direct male line descendants of Dayan Khan. The Baarin, Khongirad, Jaruud, Baigut, and the O'zeed (Ujeed) became Dayan Khan's fifth son Achibolod's subjects, thus formed the Southern Five Halhs. The Qaraei, Jalairs, Olkhonud, Khatagin, Besut, Iljigin, Gorlos, Uriankhai, Sartuul, Tanghut, Khotogoid, Khuree, and Tsookhor became Dayan Khan's youngest (could be third) son Geresenje's () subjects, thus formed the \"Аглагийн арван гурван хүрээ Халх\" or Thirteen Khalkhas of the Far North.\n\nThere were also numerous direct descendants of Genghis Khan who had formed the ruling class of the Khalkha Mongols prior to the 20th century, but they were and still also regarded as Khalkha Mongols rather than belonging to a special unit.\n\nThe Thirteen Khalkhas of the Far North are the major subethnic group of the independent state of Mongolia. They number 1,610,400 (78.8%) of Mongolia's population (1989 figures).\n\nThe Khalkha or Halh dialect is the standard written language of Mongolia.\n\nThe term \"Халх\" (\"Halh, Khalkha\") has always puzzled linguists and historians. One possible interpretation is that it shares the same root as the words xалхавч \"shield\" and xалхлах \"to protect; to cover; to shield; to hide; to intercept\", although there is no noun or verb \"xалх\" that independently exists besides the ethnic group's name. In saimilar manner, the sub-ethnic groups within the Khalkha Unit have been historically recorded in books, journals, and documents as \"Jalair Khalkha\", \"Sartuul Khalkha\", \"Tanghut Khalkha\" etc. Even the word order in the phrases Southern Five Khalkha and Northern Thirteen Khalkha implies that the word Халх correlates to the units within the Southern and Northern tribal federations, but it does not stand for the group as a whole. Lastly, Mongolians have always linked the term Халх to the name of the Khalkhyn Gol.\n\nDayan Khan created Khalkha Tumen out of Mongols residing in the territory of present-day central Mongolia and northern part of Inner Mongolia. In Mongolian historical sources such as \"Erdeniin Erih\" (\"The Beads of Jewel\") it clearly stated how Khalkha Tumen was created and where these people resided at the time of its creation. The statement goes as follows:\n\n\n\n\nIt is also believed that Southern Khalkha people who now reside in Inner Mongolia were moved to south from its original territory Khangai Mountains. To commemorate and signify its origin, every new year during white month/moon celebration all southern Khalkhas perform special Khangai Mountain worshipping ceremonies and they face northwest and pray. This special ceremony is maintained by only southern khalkhas and no other southern Mongols have such rituals.\n\nUnder Dayan Khan, the Khalkha were organized as one of three tümen of the Left Wing. Dayan Khan installed the fifth son Alchu Bolad and the eleventh son Geresenje on the Khalkha. The former became the founder of the Five Halh of Southern Mongolia and the latter became the founder of the Seven Halh of the Northern Mongolia. They were called Inner Khalkha and Outer Khalkha respectively, by the Manchus.\n\nMongolian chronicles called Geresenje as \"Khong Tayiji of the Jalayir\", which indicates that the core part of the Khalkha were descendants of the Jalayir tribe. By extension, some scholars consider that the Halh had a close connection with the Five Ulus of the Left Wing of the former Yuan dynasty, which was led by the five powerful tribes of Jalayir, Onggirat, Ikires, Uruud and Mangghud.\nThe Five Halh consisted of five tribes called Jarud, Baarin, Onggirat, Bayaud and Öjiyed. They lived around the Shira Mören valley east of the Greater Khingan. They clashed with but were eventually conquered by the rising Manchus. The Five Khalkha except for the Jarud and the Baarin were organized into the Eight Banners. Note that Khalkha Left Banner of Juu Uda League and Khalkha Right Banner of Ulaanchab League were offshoots of the Seven Khalkha.\nThe Seven Khalkha were involved in regular fights against the Oyirad in the west. Geresenje's descendants formed the houses of Tüsheet Khan, Zasagt Khan and Setsen Khan. They preserved their independence until they had to seek help from the Kangxi Emperor of the Manchu Qing dynasty against the Zungar leader Galdan in 1688. In 1725 the Yongzheng Emperor gave Tsering independence from the house of Tüsheet Khan, forming the house of Sain Noyon Khan.\n\nThe Khalkha led the Mongolian independence movement in the 20th century. After enduring countless hardships, they established the independent state of Mongolia in northern Mongolia.\n\nThe overwhelming majority of Khalkha Mongols now reside in the modern state of Mongolia. However, there are four small banners in China: two in Inner Mongolia; one in Qinghai; and one in Jehol. There are also several groups among the Buriats in Russia, however, they no longer retain the Khalkha self-identity, culture, and language. The Halh Mongols in Qinghai, China and the ones among the Buriats in Russia were subjects to Khalkha's Tsogtu Khan and his sons.\n\nThe Choghtu Khong Tayiji's Khalkhas (1 banner): Poet, supporter of Ligdan Khan, and opponent of the Dalai Lama's \"Yellow Hat\" order, Tsogtu Khong Taiji moved to Qinghai with his subjects sometime after 1624. Ligdan Khan and Tsogtu Khong Taiji were supposed to meet in Qinghai and eventually build a Mongol base that is independent of the Manchu rule which was geographically far from the Manchu emperor's reach. Moreover, it was clear to the two Mongol Khans that Tibetan Dalai Lama's influence in Mongol affairs was increasing. So the two decided to end the influence of Dalai Lama and the \"Yellow Hat\" order by supporting the \"Red Hat\" order. However, majority of Ligdan Khan's subjects and soldiers died because of smallpox on the way to Qinghai. After Ligdan's death, Tsogtu Taiji began attacking dGe-lugs-pa monasteries. When Tsogtu sent 10,000 men under his son Arslang against the Dalai Lama in Lhasa, Arslang switched sides and supported the Dalai Lama. The dGe-lugs-pa hierarch, the Fifth Dalai Lama (1617–82), summoned the Oirat Güshi Khan Toro-Baiku, whose 10,000 men in early 1637 crushed Tsogtu’s 30,000 at Ulaan-Khoshuu; Tsogtu Taiji was killed. Today the Oirats of Gushi Khan is also known as the \"Upper Mongols\" or the \"ДЭЭД МОНГОЛ\", and they still reside in Qinghai forming 21 banners. The remnants of Tsogtu Khong Taiji's Halhs form only one banner and are known as the \"Lower Mongols\" or \"ДООД МОНГОЛ\". Tsogtu Khong Taiji is known as Tsogtu Khan among the Khalkha Mongols in Qinghai.\n\nThe Khalkha Right Wing Banner: This banner was popularly known as the Darkhan Beili Banner and the ruler of this banner was the descendant of Gersenz Jalair Khan's grandson Bunidari. In 1653 they migrated into Inner Mongolia from the Tusheet Khan Aimak of Outer Mongolia.\n\nThe Khalkha East Wing Banner: This banner was popularly known as the \"Chokhor Halh\" and the ruler of this banner was the descendant of Gombo-Ilden, the fifth generation grandson to Gersenz Jalair Khan. They fled from the Zasakto Khan Aimak of Outer Mongolia to Inner Mongolia in 1664. Its boundaries as given by the Mongol Pastures run 125 by 230 \"li\", or about 41 by 76 miles.\n\nThe Tanggot Khalkha Banner: This Banner formerly subordinated for administrative purposes to the East Wing Tumet (Monggoljin) Banner, is popularly known as Tanggot Khalkha. This tiny territory, of not more than 12 by 15 miles, is said to have a population of about 500 people. There are practically no Chinese, as the surrounding districts are held by Mongols. The tribe, which has a prince of its own, was founded by immigrants from the Jasakto Khan division of Outer Mongolia, who fled to Inner Mongolia and offered submission to the Manchus in 1662, during the wars between the Northern (Khalkha) and Western (Ulot) Mongols.\n\nDuring the rise of Genghis Khan in the 12th to 13th centuries, neither the Selenge valley in today's southern Buriatia or the Aga steppe had at this time any connection with the Buriats; these were the lands of the Merkid tribe and the Mongol tribe proper. Starting 1628 with the Russian Conquest and Buriat Migration, the Selenge Valley, as before, was inhabited by Mongol clans under the rule of the Khalkha khans. By 1652 the Khalkha khans were protesting the Russian incursions into Transbaikalia, and from 1666 on Khalkha raiding parties reached as far as Bratsk, Ilimsk, Yeravninsk, and Nerchinsk, while the khans besieged the forts on the Selenge. At the same time, however, the Khoris along the Uda River in 1647 surrendered as a block to the Russians to escape paying tribute to the Khalkhas. Smaller Mongol clan fragments also defected north to the protection of Cossack forts. The invasion of Khalkha by Galdan Boshogtu Khan in 1688 stopped Khalkha resistance to the Cossack advance and sent more Mongol refugees fleeing into Russian control. \n\nFinally, the Selenge Mongols, cut off by the new border from their Khalkha kinsmen and mixed with displaced Buriats and Khori, gradually accepted the Russian designation as Buriat. These groups are: Descendants of Okhin Taij (grandson of Khalkha's Tsogtu Khan); Khatagin; Atagan; Ashabagad; Sartuul; Tavnanguud; Yungsiebu; O'zeed; Uuld; Tsongool. The Tsongool subclans are as follows: 1. Uriankhad, 2. Bolingud, 3. Baatud, 4. Ashibagad, 5. Avgachuud, 6. Sharnuud, 7. Nomkhod, 8. Khamnigan, 9. Arshaantan, 10. Khorchid, 11. Naimantan, 12. Yunshööbü, 13. Khotgoid, 14. Eljiged, 15. Örlüüd, 16. Tavnanguud, 17. Orongoi, 18. Tsookhor, 19. Sartuul, 20. Sharaid, 21. Temdegten.\nMongolian academician, writer, and scholar Byambyn Renchin () is a representative of this ethnic group. His father belonged to the Yungshiebu tribe and his mother was a direct descendant of Genghis Khan through Khalkha's Tsogtu Khan.\n\n"}
{"id": "3587807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3587807", "title": "LGBT stereotypes", "text": "LGBT stereotypes\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) stereotypes are conventional, formulaic generalizations, opinions, or images based on the sexual orientations or gender identities of LGBT people. Stereotypical perceptions may be acquired through interactions with parents, teachers, peers and mass media, or, more generally, through a lack of firsthand familiarity, resulting in an increased reliance on generalizations.\n\nNegative stereotypes are often associated with homophobia, lesbophobia, biphobia, or transphobia. Positive stereotypes, or counterstereotypes, also exist. \n\nWhile LGBT people are associated with irreligiousness, the Human Rights Campaign promotes the idea that an individual can be gay and religious. Harry Knox, a gay minister, has led this movement since 2005. \"Seventy-two percent of adults describe their faith as \"very important\" in their lives, so do sixty percent of gays and lesbians\" (US News). Activists are working to bridge the gap between religion and homosexuality and to make denominations friendlier to the community. Many Protestants have opened their doors and the United Church of Christ has ordained gay ministers since 1972. LGBT clergy are also ordained in the Episcopal Church of America and the Presbyterian Church (US). The National Gay and Lesbian Task Force has worked with Jewish individuals in the LGBT community, and organizations like Keshet continue to work with Jewish members of the community both to raise awareness of LGBTQ issues in Jewish communities and Jewish issues in LGBTQ communities.\n\n\"Bury your gays\" and more specifically \"dead lesbian syndrome\" describe the trope in fiction that requires that gay or lesbian characters die or meet another unhappy ending, such as becoming insane.\n\nAccording to \"Autostraddle\", which examined 1,779 scripted U.S. television series from 1976 to 2016, 193 (11%) of them featured lesbian or bisexual female characters, and among these, 35% saw lesbian or bisexual characters dead, but only 16% provided a happy ending for them. Similarly, among all lesbian or bisexual characters in no longer airing series, 31% ended up dead, and only 10% received a happy ending. In a study of 242 character deaths in the 2015-2016 television season, \"Vox\" reported that \"A full 10 percent of deaths [were] queer women.\" Such statistics led \"Variety\" to conclude in 2016 that \"the trope is alive and well on TV, and fictional lesbian and bisexual women in particular have a very small chance of leading long and productive lives\".\n\nThe trope also appears in other fiction, such as video games, where LGBT characters are, according to \"Kotaku\", \"largely defined by a pain that their straight counterparts do not share\". Facing challenges that \"serve as an in-world analogy for anti-LGBTQ bigotry\", these characters are defined by tragedy that denies them a chance at happiness.\n\nFor years, the media has been moving forward in equally representing members of the LGBT community. While there may still not be many prominent LGBT characters in the mainstream media, the community has completed many milestones in the recent years. In 2016, the coming-of-age drama film \"Moonlight\" became the first LGBT movie to win an Oscar. In 2018, \"Love, Simon\" also became another groundbreaking and Oscar winning film, delicately documenting the hardships of being a gay teenager. Typically, movies like this attract a smaller following and budget. However, director Greg Berlanti is proud to say he’s leading a large mainstream audience. \n\nOn the other hand, LGBT members continue to be underrepresented and type-casted as mentally ill, criminals, or the end of a punchline because they are considered “different” by many. Due to our heteronormative society, the homophobia against the community perpetuates bias and assumptions about how it’s “normal” to have a nuclear family. In movies such as Zoolander 2, My Big Fat Greek Wedding 2, and Neighbors 2, their narratives included stereotypes and jokes pertaining to gay characters. As for representation, Disney holds the title of only representing the LGBT community in 8% of their films as of 2016. Other companies such as 20th Century Fox, Sony, Lionsgate and Warner Bros have featured LGBT characters in only up to 21% of their films as well.\n\nLGBT rights activists have fought against fictional representations of LGBT people that depict them as violent and murderous. Columnist Brent Hartinger observed that \"literally all the big-budget Hollywood movies until, perhaps, \"Philadelphia\" in 1993 that featured major gay male characters portrayed them as insane villains and serial killers\". Community members organized protests and boycotts against films with murderous gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender characters, including \"Cruising\" (1980), \"Silence of the Lambs\" (1991), and \"Basic Instinct\" (1992). Theatre scholar Jordan Schildcrout has written about the recurrence of the \"homicidal homosexual\" in American plays, but notes that LGBT playwrights themselves have appropriated this negative stereotype to confront and subvert homophobia. Such plays include \"The Lisbon Traviata\" (1985) by Terrence McNally, \"Porcelain\" (1992) by Chay Yew, \"The Secretaries\" (1993) by the Five Lesbian Brothers, and \"The Dying Gaul\" (1998) by Craig Lucas.\n\nMany 20th-century films put a negative connotation on the lesbian community. \"The Children's Hour\" (1961) gives viewers the idea that lesbians live a \"dark\" and almost depressing lifestyle. However, by the 21st century, the media was portraying lesbians in a more positive light. For instance, in the popular lesbian television series \"The L Word\" the media refutes the \"U-Haul\" lesbian stereotype, which is that lesbians move in on the second date. The show depicts a lesbian couple that starts a family and stays together long term. It intends to prove that lesbians hold the same \"family values\" as that of heterosexual couples. The show also uses mostly \"feminine\" or \"lipstick\" lesbians to combat the stereotype that all lesbians are \"butch\", or dress like men. This promotes the idea that lesbians come in all different shapes, sizes, and styles. The show also battles stereotypes through its character, Shane. Shane challenges the stereotype that lesbians catch feelings easily. It is believed that lesbians are easily domesticated, however, Shane shuffles between a varieties of girls, to challenge the idea that lesbians get easily attached to their partners. At the same time, however, negative stereotypes are touched upon, particularly in the first season, in which the lesbian Marina Ferrer is depicted as a sexual predator relentlessly pursuing and ultimately seducing the straight Jenny Schecter despite being in a relationship and knowing of Jenny's engagement to her fiancé, Tim, which leads to the destruction of Jenny and Tim's relationship, effectively reinforcing the stereotype that lesbians \"recruit\" straight women and have no respect for their boyfriends (although Jenny herself was badly received by the LGBT community throughout the series' entire run). Another character, Lacey, goes out of her way to defame Shane solely for refusing to commit to her, in the process risking potential police action, and is pacified only when Shane sleeps with her one last time. On many occasions throughout the series, numerous characters are shown starting affairs merely to make their lovers jealous, or simply sabotaging their relationships through adultery for no apparent reason. Of note, all of the main characters are depicted as having cheated at least once on a lover, and generally unable to commit to a sole partner.\n\nIn the television series \"Gotham\", the character Renee Montoya is a lesbian and recovering drug addict, while the characters Fish Mooney, Barbara Kean and Tabitha Galavan are bisexual. Fish Mooney is introduced as the second-in-command of mafia boss Carmine Falcone, with a penchant for ruthlessness and an ambition to overthrow both Falcone and Sal Maroni and become Gotham's sole crime boss. Montoya does not hide her grudge against James Gordon for being in a relationship with Barbara, her former lover. When rumors surface that Gordon may be corrupt, Montoya becomes determined to put him behind bars, though it is primarily in the hopes of getting Barbara back instead of enforcing justice, but after she briefly succeeds in resuming her affair with Barbara, she pushes Barbara away when Barbara appears to be going back to depression and drug addiction. After Gordon begins a relationship with Leslie Thompkins, Barbara is driven insane with jealousy and eventually progresses to become one of the series' main antagonists. The second season introduces Tabitha Galavan, the bisexual sister of Theo Galavan, and who is also depicted as a ruthless, sadistic mercenary who has an on-again off-again relationship with Barbara.\n\nMany lesbians are associated with short hair, wearing baggy clothes and playing sports. Further, news coverage of LGBT issues reinforces stereotyped portrayals of lesbians. Often news broadcasts highlight stories on more \"masculine\" lesbians and fail to give equal coverage to other more faceted lesbian identities. Thus, the populations who receive information about marginalized communities from a news source begin to equate lesbian sexuality with masculine presentation. The way lesbians are portrayed leads people to make assumptions about individuals in everyday life.\n\nTypically, lesbians are stereotyped as belonging to one of the two following categories: \"butch and femme\". Butch lesbians dress in a more masculine manner than other women. \"Dykes\" (a pejorative term that the Lesbian community has reclaimed, to an extent) are considered members of a community that is perceived as being composed of strong and outspoken advocates in wider society. Actress Portia de Rossi has been credited for significantly countering the general societal misconception of how lesbians look and function when, in 2005, she divulged her sexual orientation in intimate interviews with \"Details\" and \"The Advocate\" which generated further discussion on the concept of the \"lipstick lesbian\" (\"femme\" women who tend to be \"hyper-feminine\"). These stereotypes play out within the LGBTIQ+ community itself, with many women reporting feeling rejected by the queer community for not appearing or acting in the accepted way.\n\nLesbian feminists assert that a sexual component is unnecessary for a woman to declare herself a lesbian if her primary and closest relationships are with women, on the basis that, when considering past relationships within an appropriate historic context, there were times when love and sex were separate and unrelated notions. In 1989, an academic cohort called the Lesbian History Group wrote:\nHomosexual men are often equated interchangeably with heterosexual women by the heterocentric mainstream and are frequently stereotyped as being effeminate, despite the fact that gender expression, gender identity and sexual orientation are widely accepted to be distinct from each other. The \"flaming queen\" is a characterization that melds flamboyance and effeminacy, remaining a gay male stock character in Hollywood. Theatre, specifically Broadway musicals, are a component of another stereotype, the \"show queen\", which generalizes that gay men are involved with the performing arts, and are theatrical, overly dramatic, and camp.\n\nThe bear subculture of the LGBT community is composed of generally large, hairy men, referred to as \"bears\". They embrace their image, and some will shun more effeminate gay men, such as twinks, and vice versa.\n\nGay men are often associated with a lisp or a feminine speaking tone. Fashion and effeminacy have long been seen as stereotypes of homosexuality. They are often based on the visibility of the reciprocal relationship between gay men and fashion. Designers, including Dolce & Gabbana, have made use of homoerotic imagery in their advertising. Some commentators argue this encourages the stereotype that most gay men enjoy shopping. A limp wrist is also a mannerism associated with gay men.\n\nRecent research by Cox and colleagues demonstrated that \"gaydar\" is often used as an alternate label for using stereotypes, especially those related to appearance and mannerisms, to infer orientation.\n\nResearch also suggests that lesbians may be slightly more likely than gay men to be in steady relationships. In terms of unprotected sex, a 2007 study cited two large population surveys as showing that \"the majority of gay men had similar numbers of unprotected sexual partners annually as straight men and women\". Another study found that gay men sometimes faced social boundaries because of this stereotype. Participants in the study reported finding it difficult to befriend other gay men on a platonic basis. They found that when they would engage with other gay men there would be an assumption of sexual motivations, and when it became clear that this was not the case the other men would not be interested in continuing socialising. These stereotypes permeate throughout all facets of society, even influencing those subjected to it.\n\nAnother persistent stereotype associated with the gay male community is partying. Before the Stonewall riots in 1969, most LGBT people were extremely private and closeted, and house parties, bars, and taverns became some of the few places where they could meet, socialize, and feel safe. The riots represented the start of the modern LGBT social movement and acceptance of sexual and gender minorities, which has steadily increased since. Festive and party-like social occasions remain at the core of organizing and fundraising in the LGBT community. In cities where there are large populations of LGBT people, benefits and bar fundraisers are still common, and alcohol companies invest heavily in LGBT-oriented marketing. Ushered in by underground gay clubs and disc jockeys, the disco era kept the \"partying\" aspect vibrant and ushered in the more hardcore circuit party movement, hedonistic and associated with party and play.\n\nThe relationship between gay men and female heterosexual \"fag hags\" has become highly stereotypical. The accepted behaviors in this type of relationship can predominantly include physical affections (such as kissing and touching), as in the sitcom \"Will & Grace\".\n\nThe term \"party and play\" (PNP) is used to refer to a subculture of gay men who use recreational drugs and have sex together, either one-on-one or in groups. The drug chosen is typically methamphetamine, known as \"crystal\" or \"tina\" in the gay community. Other \"party drugs\" such as MDMA and GHB are less associated with this term. While PNP probably has its genesis in the distinct subculture of methamphetamine users, and is most associated with its use, it has become somewhat generalized to include partying with other drugs thought to enhance sexual experiences, especially MDMA, GHB, and cocaine.\n\nA report from the National HIV Prevention Conference (a collaborative effort by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and other governmental and non-government organizations) describes PNP as \"sexual behavior under the influence of crystal meth or other 'party' drugs.\" It has been referred to as both an \"epidemic\" and a \"plague\" in the gay community. British researchers report that up to 20% of gay men from central London gyms have tried methamphetamine, the drug most associated with PNP, despite methamphetamine use being relatively unknown in the UK outside the PNP subculture.\n\nExtreme sex or bondage is also a stereotype in gay men. People often presume that gay men often conform to the stereotype of leather and chaps, including fisting.\n\nIt is a common stereotype that gay men are sexual predators or pedophiles. The former perception can lead to a knee-jerk reaction that created the \"gay panic defense\", usually in straight men, who fear being hit on by gay men, and can be either a cause or an expression of homophobia. The perception that a greater proportion of gay than straight men are pedophiles or child sexual abusers is one contributing factor of discrimination against gay teachers, despite the stark contrast to statistical figures, which have generally revealed most male child sexual abusers, including those who target boys, are heterosexual and usually married with children of their own, and research on child sexual abuse shows that most instances of child sexual abuse (one cited percentage being over 90%) are perpetrated by heterosexual males raping underage females. Research has consistently indicated that a significant minority of child sex abuse perpetrators are female (5–20%), but other research has indicated that almost 40% of child sexual abuse against boys, and 6% of abuse against girls, is committed by women.\n\nBisexuality is romantic or sexual attraction to males and females, or romantic or sexual attraction to people of all gender identities or to a person irrespective of that person's biological sex or gender, though numerous related terms, such as \"pansexual\" and \"polysexual\", are also equated with this description and there exists debate with regard to the terms' interchangeability. People who have a distinct but not exclusive preference for one sex over the other may also identify themselves as bisexual. Bisexuality has been observed in various human societies and elsewhere in the animal kingdom throughout recorded history. The term \"bisexuality\", like the terms \"heterosexuality\" and \"homosexuality\", was coined in the 19th century.\n\nWoody Allen is quoted saying, \"Being bisexual doubles your chance of a date on Saturday night.\" Common bisexual stereotypes include an inability to maintain a steady relationship or be trustworthy (based on a perception that bisexuals are promiscuous because of their attraction to more than one gender), and indecision as to whether one is gay or straight (which assumes a binary, either-or spectrum of sexuality). Over a person's life, one's sexual desires and activities may vary greatly.\n\nIn 1995, Harvard Shakespeare professor Marjorie Garber made the academic case for bisexuality with her \"Vice Versa: Bisexuality and the Eroticism of Everyday Life\", in which she argued that most people would be bisexual if not for \"repression, religion, repugnance, denial, laziness, shyness, lack of opportunity, premature specialization, a failure of imagination, or a life already full to the brim with erotic experiences, albeit with only one person, or only one gender\".\n\nRock musician David Bowie famously declared himself bisexual in an interview with \"Melody Maker\" in January 1972, a move coinciding with the first shots in his campaign for stardom as Ziggy Stardust. In a September 1976 interview with \"Playboy\", Bowie said, \"It's true, I am a bisexual. But I can't deny that I've used that fact very well. I suppose it's the best thing that ever happened to me.\" In a 1983 interview he said it's \"the biggest mistake [he had] ever made\", in 2002 elaborating: \"I don't think it was a mistake in Europe, but it was a lot tougher in America. I had no problem with people knowing I was bisexual. But I had no inclination to hold any banners or be a representative of any group of people. I knew what I wanted to be, which was a songwriter and a performer ... America is a very puritanical place, and I think it stood in the way of so much I wanted to do.\"\n\nAs for bisexual people portrayed by Hollywood, from the end of the McCarthy era to even today, \"The history of male bisexual characters in film has been one of negative stereotyping.\"\n\n\"Transgender\" is an umbrella term that encompasses a wide range of people with more specific identities. In general, a person who is transgender identifies with a gender other than their gender assigned at birth. The term may apply to any number of distinct communities, such as cross-dressers, drag queens, and drag kings, in addition to transsexuals. The beliefs that transgender people are all prostitutes and caricatures of men and women are two of many erroneous misconceptions.\n\nOne common stereotype of trans women is that they're assumed to be drag queens. While historically some trans women have been innovators within the drag scene alongside gay men, trans women are not drag queens.\n\nA transsexual is a person born with the physical characteristics of one sex who psychologically and emotionally identifies with a variant or different gender than their physical sex characteristics. Stereotypes of trans women include that they are generally taller than cisgender women, and that they may have larger, more masculine hands.\n\nTransvestites are often assumed to be homosexuals. The word \"transvestism\" comes from the combination of Latin words \"trans\" meaning \"across, over\" and \"vestitus\" meaning dressed. Most transvestites are heterosexual. Transvestism may have a fetishistic component, whereas cross-dressing does not; although many people use the words interchangeably, \"transvestite\" has increasingly become a derogatory term. Most prefer to use the term \"cross-dresser\" or \"cross-dressing\".\n\nSocial scientists are attempting to understand why there are such negative connotations associated with the lesbian community. William James assumed that it was a repulsive instinct that came naturally to each woman and that, when an individual enjoyed same-sex interaction, it was because it became a habit. In short, he assumed that \"tolerance is learned and revulsion is inborn\" (PBS). In 1908, James and Edward Westermack attempted to understand the violent actions taken toward homosexuals by Jewish, Christian, and Zoroastrian religions. They believed hostility existed because of the historical association between homosexuality and idolatry, heresy, and criminal behavior. Sigmund Freud asserted in 1905 that homophobia was shaped by society, an individual's environment, and the individual's exposure to homo-eroticism. Sandor Ference (1914) believed that heterosexual women's feelings of repulsion toward those identifying as lesbians was a reaction formation and defense mechanism against affection from the same sex. In other words, he believed heterosexual females feared being labeled as lesbians.\n\nTaking an individual that adheres to stereotypes of LGBT people and putting them in face-to-face interaction with those of the LGBT community tends to lessen tendencies to rely upon stereotypes and increases the presence of individuals with a similar ethnic, religious, or geographical background, and who are accepting of homosexuals.\n\nHispanics generally have a difficult time within the culture of the Hispanic American countries, yet not in Spain, this is due to this cultures being more traditionalist (With the exception of Argentina, Uruguay and Chile). There have been some shifts away from these stereotypes in recent years, but it has been to different extents depending on the culture. The strong belief in \"machismo\" has caused these shifts in attitude to be so small. Machismo refers to the male dominant role in society that provides more social authority to men that are not experienced by women. Female homosexuality is less explicitly accepted in many of these cultures, while in certain countries and in certain social status it is accepted, they do not enjoy the acceptance similar to that of Western countries.\nMany Hispanics stray away from coming out because of religion. The LGBTQ Hispanic community of faith helps people understand that they can be gay and also be religious without judgement.\n\nAsian American women that identify as lesbian or bisexual may face sexual fetishization by white men or women and are stereotyped as \"spicy\", leading to frustrations about Asian lesbians feeling they are not taken seriously by society, stereotypes about Asian women as \"freaky\", and yellow fever. Gay and bisexual Asian men are stereotyped as \"effeminate, submissive, and docile\". As both ethnocentric and heterocentric minority groups, LGBT Asian Americans face intersectional invisibility, which offers them some protection from stereotyping and active prejudice while also making it difficult for them to establish recognition or be recognized. Asian Americans are typically overlooked in discussion of race, which focuses mostly on a white/black dichotomy and renders Asian Americans invisible. Similarly, gay and lesbian Asian Americans are marginalized within mostly-white LGBT communities at large.\n\nGay Asian American men in media are portrayed as both hypersexual (as gay men) and asexual (as Asian men). Stereotypes of Asian women as either a Dragon Lady or China doll are dominant in mainstream media representation of Asian women, and butch Asian women are relatively invisible, giving way to more femme, or feminized, depictions. GLAAD is working to have a fair depiction of the Asian community in the media by educating the public on language referring to Asian Americans, including refraining from phrases that are Eurocentric like \"The Orient\", \"Far East\", and \"Asiatic\", among other measures. GLAAD is also working to connect media networks with Asian and Pacific Islander LGBT leaders and organizations in order to create less biased media coverage.\n\nIn Japan, adult lesbians (better known as \"'bians\") are frequently portrayed as smokers in Japanese Media. Japanese culture also heavily fetishizes LGBTQ relationships, often seen in the prevalence of yaoi (male homosexuality) and yuri (female homosexuality/lesbianism). While Japanese culture heavily discourages interest in homosexual fiction matching the reader's sex, certain publications, such as manga magazine Yuri Hime, have repeatedly reported their dominant consumers as the same gender as portrayed for most of their operational life.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014402", "title": "Lead time", "text": "Lead time\n\nA lead time is the latency between the initiation and execution of a process. For example, the lead time between the placement of an order and delivery of a new car from a manufacturer may be anywhere from 2 weeks to 6 months.\n\nLead time in publishing describes the amount of time that a journalist has between receiving a writing assignment and submitting the completed piece. Depending on the publication, lead times can be anything from a couple of hours to many months/years.\n\nLead time (when referring to a disease) is the length of time between detection of a disease through screening and the moment in time where it would have normally presented with symptoms and led to a diagnosis. An example of this is seen with breast cancer population screening, where women who are asymptomatic have a positive test result with mammography, whereas the underlying disease would have taken many more years to manifest.\n\nA more conventional definition of lead time in the supply chain management realm is the time from the moment the customer places an order (the moment the supplier learns of the requirement) to the moment it is ready for delivery. In the absence of finished goods or intermediate (work in progress) inventory, it is the time it takes to actually manufacture the order without any inventory other than raw materials. The Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply identifies \"total lead time\" as a combination of \"internal lead time\" (the time required for the buying organisation's internal processes to progress from identification of a need to the issue of a purchase order) and \"external lead time\" (the time required for the supplying organisation's processes, including any development required, manufacture, despatch and delivery).\n\nIn the manufacturing environment, lead time has the same definition as that of Supply Chain Management, but it includes the time required to ship the parts from the supplier. The shipping time is included because the manufacturing company needs to know when the parts will be available for material requirements planning. It is also possible for lead time to include the time it takes for a company to process and have the part ready for manufacturing once it has been received. The time it takes a company to unload a product from a truck, inspect it, and move it into storage is non-trivial. With tight manufacturing constraints or when a company is using Just In Time manufacturing it is important for supply chain to know how long their own internal processes take.\n\nLead time is made of:\n\nExample\n\nCompany A needs a part that can be manufactured in two days once Company B has received an order. It takes three days for company A to receive the part once shipped, and one additional day before the part is ready to go into manufacturing.\n\nIn more detail\n\nLead Time terminology has been defined in greater detail. The Supply Chain from customer order received to the moment the order is delivered is divided into five lead times.\n\nExample \n\nA restaurant opens up and a customer walks in. A waiter guides him to a table, gives him the menu and asks what he would like to order. The customer selects a dish and the waiter writes it in his notepad. At that moment the customer has made an order which the restaurant has accepted – Order Lead Time and Order Handling Time have begun. Now the waiter marks the order in the cash register, rips the paper from the notepad, takes it into the kitchen and puts into the order queue. The order has been handled and is waiting in the factory (kitchen) for manufacturing. As there are no other customers, the waiter decides to stand outside the kitchen, by the door, waiting for the dish to be prepared and begins calculating Manufacturing Lead Time.\n\nMeanwhile, the chef finishes what he was doing, takes the order from the queue, starts his clock as a mark for the start of Production Lead Time and begins cooking. The chef chops the vegetables, fries the meat and boils the pasta. When the dish is ready, the chef rings a bell and stops his clock. At the same time the waiter stops calculating Manufacturing Lead Time and rushes through the kitchen door to get the food while it is hot.\n\nWhen he picks it up, begins counting of Delivery Lead Time that ends when the dish is served to the customer, who can now happily say that the Order Lead Time was shorter than he had expected.\n\nWhen talking about Order Lead Time (OLT) it is important to differentiate the definitions that may exist around this concept. Although they look similar there are differences between them that help the industry to model the order behavior of their customers. The four definitions are : \n\nThe OLT will be determined by the difference between the date the customer wants the material in his facilities (wish date) and the date when they provided its order to the supplier. \nThe OLT will be determined by the difference between the date the customer agree to receive the material in their facilities (Quote date) and the date when the order is provided to the supplier.\nThe OLT will be determined by the difference between the day the provider deliver the material (Delivery date) and the date when they enter the order in the system. \nThe OLT will be determined by the difference between the date the confirmed date by the provider to deliver the material in the customer facilities (Confirmed date) and the date when they provide the order to the supplier.\n\nThe Average OLT based on Volume (OLT) is the addition of all the multiplications between the volume of product we deliver (quantity) and the OLT divided by the total quantity delivered in the period of time we are studying for that specific facility.\nformula_1 \nBy doing this the company will be able to find a relation of volume weighted between the quantities of material required for an order and the time requested to accomplish it. The volume metric could be applied to the 4 types of OLT. \nThe figure obtained from this calculation will be the average time (e.g. in days) between order placing and the requested delivery date of a specific customer under consideration of the average quantities ordered during that particular time.\n\nThe correct analysis of OLT will give the company:\n\nIn project management lead time is the time it takes to complete a task or a set of interdependent tasks. The lead of the entire project would be the overall duration of the critical path for the project.\n\nLead time is also the saved time by starting an activity before its predecessor is completed.\n\nAccording to the PMI (2008), lead is a dependency between two activities (p. 140). An example would be scheduling the start of a 2-week activity dependent with the finish of the successor activity with a lead of 2 weeks so they will finish at the same time.\n\n"}
{"id": "977534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977534", "title": "Lipka Tatars", "text": "Lipka Tatars\n\nThe Lipka Tatars (also known as Lithuanian Tatars, Polish Tatars, \"Lipkowie\", \"Lipcani\" or \"Muślimi\") are a group of Tatars who originally settled in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania at the beginning of the 14th century. The first settlers tried to preserve their shamanistic religion and sought asylum amongst the non-Christian Lithuanians. Towards the end of the 14th century, another wave of Tatars – this time, Muslims, were invited into the Grand Duchy by Vytautas the Great. These Tatars first settled in Lithuania proper around Vilnius, Trakai, Hrodna and Kaunas and later spread to other parts of the Grand Duchy that later became part of Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. These areas comprise present-day Lithuania, Belarus and Poland. From the very beginning of their settlement in Lithuania they were known as the Lipka Tatars. While maintaining their religion, they united their fate with that of the mainly Christian Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. From the Battle of Grunwald onwards the Lipka Tatar light cavalry regiments participated in every significant military campaign of Lithuania and Poland.\n\nThe Lipka Tatar origins can be traced back to the descendant states of the Mongol Empire of Genghis Khan – the White Horde, the Golden Horde, the Crimean Khanate and Kazan Khanate. They initially served as a noble military caste but later they became urban-dwellers known for their crafts, horses and gardening skills. Throughout centuries they resisted assimilation and kept their traditional lifestyle. While they remained very attached to their religion, over time however, they lost their original Tatar language, from the Kipchak languages group of the Turkic languages, and for the most part adopted Belarusian, Lithuanian and Polish. There are still small groups of Lipka Tatars living in today's Belarus, Lithuania and Poland, as well as their communities in United States.\n\nThe name Lipka is derived from the old Crimean Tatar name of Lithuania. The record of the name Lipka in Oriental sources permits us to infer an original Libķa/Lipķa, from which the Polish derivative Lipka was formed, with possible contamination from contact with the Polish \"lipka\" \"small lime-tree\"; this etymology was suggested by the Tatar author S. Tuhan-Baranowski. A less frequent Polish form, Łubka, is corroborated in Łubka/Łupka, the Crimean Tatar name of the Lipkas up to the end of the 19th century. The Crimean Tatar term \"Lipka Tatarłar\" meaning \"Lithuanian Tatars\", later started to be used by the Polish–Lithuanian Tatars to describe themselves.\n\nIn religion and culture the Lipka Tatars differed nominally from most other Islamic communities in respect of the treatment of their women, who always enjoyed a large degree of freedom, even during the years when the Lipkas were in the service of the Ottoman Empire. Co-education of male and female children was the norm, and Lipka women did not wear the veil – except at the marriage ceremony. While traditionally Islamic, the customs and religious practices of the Lipka Tatars also accommodated many Christian elements adopted during their 600 years residence in Belarus, Poland, Ukraine and Lithuania while still maintaining the traditions and superstitions from their nomadic Mongol past.\n\nOver time, the lower and middle Lipka Tatar nobles adopted the Ruthenian language then later the Belarusian language as their native language. However, they used the Arabic alphabet to write in Belarusian until the 1930s. The upper nobility of Lipka Tatars spoke Polish.\n\nDiplomatic correspondence between the Crimean Khanate and Poland from the early 16th century refers to the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth as the \"land of the Poles and the Lipkas\". By the 17th century the term Lipka Tatar began to appear in the official documents of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nThe migration of Tatars into the lands of Lithuania and Poland from Golden Horde began during the 14th century and lasted until the end of the 17th. There was a subsequent wave of Tatar immigrants from Russia after the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917, although these consisted mostly of political and national activists.\n\nAccording to some estimates, by 1590–1591 there were about 200,000 Lipka Tatars living in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth and about 400 mosques serving them. According to the \"Risāle-yi Tatar-i Leh\" (trans: \"Message Concerning the Tatars of Poland\", an account of the Lipka Tatars written for Süleyman the Magnificent by an anonymous Polish Muslim during a stay in Constantinople in 1557–1558 on his way to Mecca) there were 100 Lipka Tatar settlements with mosques in Poland. The largest communities existed in the cities of Lida, Navahradak and Iwye. There was a Lipka Tatar settlement in Minsk, today's capital of Belarus, known as Tatarskaya Slabada.\n\nIn the year 1672, the Tatar subjects rose up in open rebellion against the Commonwealth. This was the widely remembered Lipka Rebellion. Thanks to the efforts of King Jan III Sobieski, who was held in great esteem by the Tatar soldiers, many of the Lipkas seeking asylum and service in the Turkish army returned to his command and participated in the struggles with the Ottoman Empire up to the Treaty of Karlowitz in 1699, including the Battle of Vienna (1683) that was to turn the tide of Islamic expansion into Europe and mark the beginning of the end for the Ottoman Empire.\n\nBeginning in the late 18th and throughout the 19th century the Lipkas became successively more and more Polonized. The upper and middle classes in particular adopted Polish language and customs (although they nominally kept Islam as their religion), while the lower ranks became Ruthenized. At the same time, the Tatars held the Lithuanian Grand Duke Vytautas (Wattad in Tatar, or \"defender of Muslims in non Muslim lands\"), who encouraged and supported their settlement during the 15th century, in great esteem, including him in many legends, prayers and their folklore. Throughout the 20th and since the 21st centuries, most Tatars no longer view religious identity as being as important as it once was, and the religious and linguistic subgroups have intermingled considerably; for example, the Tatar women in Poland do not practice and view veiling (wearing headscarf/hijab) as a mandatory religious obligation, but rather an influence of an Arabic culture on an Islamic customs. Many Polish Tatars, especially and mainly the youth, also drink alcohol.\n\n\n\n\n\nToday there are about 10,000–15,000 Lipka Tatars in the former areas of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. The majority of descendants of Tatar families in Poland can trace their descent from the nobles of the early Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. Lipka Tatars had settlements in north-east Poland, Belarus, Lithuania, south-east Latvia and Ukraine. Today most reside in Poland, Lithuania, and Belarus. Most of the Lipka Tatars (80%) assimilated into the ranks of the nobility in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth while some lower noble Tatars assimilated to the Belarusian, Polish, Ukrainian and Lithuanian townsfolk and peasant populations.\n\nA number of the Polish Tatars emigrated to the US at the beginning of the 20th century and settled mostly in the north eastern states, although there is also an enclave in Florida. A small but active community of Lipka Tatars exists in New York City. \"The Islamic Center of Polish Tatars\" was built in 1928 in Brooklyn, New York City, and functioned until recently.\n\nAfter the annexation of eastern Poland into the Soviet Union following World War II, Poland was left with only 2 Tatar villages, Bohoniki and Kruszyniany. A significant number of the Tatars in the territories annexed to the USSR repatriated to Poland and clustered in cities such as Gdańsk, Białystok, Warsaw and Gorzów Wielkopolski totaling some 3,000 people. One of the neighborhoods of Gorzów Wielkopolski where relocated Tatar families resettled has come to be referred to as \"the Tatar Hills\", or in Polish \"Górki Tatarskie\".\n\nIn 1925 the Muslim Religion Association () was formed in Białystok, Poland. In 1992, the Organization of Tatars of the Polish Republic () with autonomous branches in Białystok and Gdańsk, began operating.\n\nIn Poland, the 2011 census showed 1,916 people declaring Tatar ethnicity.\n\nIn November 2010, a monument to Poland's Tatar populace was unveiled in the port city of Gdańsk at a ceremony attended by President Bronislaw Komorowski, as well as Tatar representatives from across Poland and abroad. The monument is a symbol of the important role of Tatars in Polish history. \"Tatars shed their blood in all national independence uprisings. Their blood seeped into the foundations of the reborn Polish Republic,\" President Komorowski said at the unveiling. The monument is the first of its kind to be erected in Europe.\n\n\nTwo distantly related members of the Abakanowicz family\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4022664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4022664", "title": "List of Chinese administrative divisions by life expectancy", "text": "List of Chinese administrative divisions by life expectancy\n\nThis is a list of the first-level administrative divisions of the People's Republic of China (P.R.C.), including all provinces, autonomous regions, special administrative regions and municipalities, in order of their life expectancy in 2010.\n\nThe figures are from the 2013 Yearbook published by the Bureau of Statistics of the PRC. The Beijing and Shanghai figures are 2015 data from List of Chinese cities by life expectancy. The Hong Kong and Macau figures are 2016 figures from the CIA World Factbook. Note that there is a 2-year or 3-year gap between those figures. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "56525081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56525081", "title": "Manzoor Pashteen", "text": "Manzoor Pashteen\n\nManzoor Ahmad Pashteen () or Manzoor Pashtun () is a human rights activist from South Waziristan, Pakistan. He has spent years lobbying to draw attention to the plight of the Pashtun people, especially those from Waziristan and other parts of the former Federally Administered Tribal Areas, Pakistan. He is the chairman of the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement (\"Pashtun Protection Movement\").\n\nPashteen was born in 1994 in Shahur (or \"Shaheer\"), Mawle Khan Sarai, a small village near the town of Sarwakai in South Waziristan, Pakistan. The eldest of eight siblings, Pashteen belongs to the Shamankhel Mahsud tribe of the Pashtuns. His father, Abdul Wadud Mahsud, is a school teacher at his village.\n\nPashteen received his early education at his village's school in South Waziristan. In 2005, because of military offensives by the Pakistan Armed Forces, Pashteen and his family were forced to flee Waziristan and temporarily settle in IDP camps in Dera Ismail Khan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The family fled their home in Waziristan for the second time in 2007, and returned in 2008, but fled again in 2008 due to Operation Zalzala. In 2009, because of Operation Rah-e-Nijat, he and his family were forced to flee Waziristan for the fourth time. Pashteen completed his secondary education at Army Public School in Bannu and higher secondary education in Karak. His father was determined to ensure his education. \"Only I know\", Pashteen said, \"my father borrowed money for my schooling and only I know how much we have suffered\". Pashteen received his Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree in 2016 at Gomal University, Dera Ismail Khan. He and his family returned to Waziristan in 2016. They found that their books had been plundered, their house ruined, landmines scattered over their lands and they were humiliated at Pakistan Army checkpoints.\n\nIn May 2014, during his studies at Gomal University, Pashteen founded the \"Mahsud Tahafuz Movement\", a social movement mainly focused on removing landmines from Waziristan (especially Mahsud land). After gaining popularity among the Pashtuns in January 2018, its name was changed to the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement (\"Pashtun Protection Movement\").\n\nIn late 2017, Pashteen and his father were arrested by the security forces of Pakistan and Pashteen was beaten up for allegedly \"damaging military morale\". Pashteen said to the military, “you are building your morale by killing innocent children and then calling us terrorists.” As a result of the social media campaign for him, he was released by the military.\n\nOn January 26, 2018, Pashteen led a protest march starting from Dera Ismail Khan, consisting of only 22 people at the start. Many peope joined the march along the way, and it reached Peshawar on January 28. Then upon reaching Islamabad on February 1, the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement organized a sit-in called \"All Pashtun National Jirga\". The jirga condemned the murder of the Pashtun shopkeeper Naqeebullah Mehsud who was shot dead by police force in Karachi during an encounter, and the alleged state oppression against the Pashtuns. Among other demands, the jirga also asked the government to set up a judicial inquiry for Naqeebullah Mehsud, as well as for all the other Pashtuns murdered extrajudicially in police encounters.\n\nThere was grand gathering of PTM, with more than sixty thousand protesters, in the center of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Peshawar on 8 April 2018.\n\nPashteen has rejected the allegation of being a foreign agent and condemned the labelling of the protesting Pashtuns as foreign agents working for Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) of India or the National Directorate of Security of Afghanistan.\n\nPashteen usually wears the Pashteen cap (Mazari hat) at public events and rallies, leading to the hat becoming an iconic symbol of the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement, and being widely renamed after him as the \"Pashteen cap\".\n\n"}
{"id": "57961350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57961350", "title": "Mario Alberto Peña", "text": "Mario Alberto Peña\n\nMario Alberto \"Popo\" Peña (22 October 1980 – 19 March 2013) was a U.S.-born Mexican suspected drug lord and regional leader of the Gulf Cartel, a criminal group based in Tamaulipas. He started his criminal career in a local Texan gang before joining the Gulf Cartel, where he worked as a regional leader in an area known as La Ribereña, across the border from Starr County, Texas. Though born in the U.S., Peña worked in Mexico and kept close ties with Texas. \n\nKnown for his charisma and heavily tattooed body, Peña was viewed as a gangster folk hero on both sides of the Mexico–United States border. In 2013, he was betrayed and killed by an alleged member of the Gulf Cartel. According to his family, Peña was killed while guarding US$2 million in cash for the Gulf Cartel. Several people paid tribute to him online by creating a Facebook page and uploading photos and rap music videos in his memory.\n\nMario Alberto Peña, known as \"Popo\" or \"Comandante Popo\" (English: Commander Popo), was born in Rio Grande City, Texas, United States on 22 October 1980. He grew up in Roma, Texas, and started his criminal career for a local Texan street gang. He eventually joined the Gulf Cartel, a criminal group based in Tamaulipas, Mexico. In the Gulf Cartel, Peña was a regional leader in an area in Tamaulipas known as La Ribereña, which sits across Starr County, Texas. Though born in the U.S., Peña operated primarily in Mexico and kept ties with the Rio Grande Valley.\n\nOn 16 August 2011, Peña and an accomplice Daniel Bazán committed a drive-by shooting at a residence in Alto Bonito Heights, Texas. According to eye-witnesses, both men arrived at a property in a vehicle and shot at the place using AR-15 assault rifles and other pistols. The Starr County Sheriff's Office issued a bulletin requesting the public to reach out with any information about Peña whereabouts. The wanted flyer said Peña was approximately and weighed . He was described as having brown eyes and hair, a beard and mustache, and tattoos in multiple parts of his body. Deputy Erasmo Rios said that they believed Peña was hiding in the Starr County area, but recommended civilians to not try to apprehend them because they were considered armed and dangerous. The warrant against both men was for attempted capital murder. Peña fled to Mexico shortly after he was charged.\n\nPeña was killed in Comales, a rural community near Camargo, Tamaulipas, on 19 March 2013. According to security forces, Peña was killed as part of an internal strife within the Gulf Cartel that dates back to September 2011, when suspected Gulf Cartel leader Samuel Flores Borrego (alias \"Metro 3\") was killed by members of his own criminal group. Peña was confirmed dead by U.S. federal authorities when his body was taken to the international crossing by his family members. Mexican authorities also confirmed his death. According to Peña's sister, the family was able to recover the body with the help of another Gulf Cartel regional leader, Juan Francisco Sáenz Támez, alias \"Comandante Panochitas\" (English: Commander Pussy). Peña was buried in a private ceremony in Texas. His family told the McAllen-based newspaper \"The Monitor\" in an interview that Peña died \"with honor\". When Peña was alive, he was regarded as a charismatic gangster and folk hero on both sides of the Mexico–United States border.\n\nSince his death, several have paid tribute to him online by creating a Facebook page and uploading photos and multiple rap music videos about him. This furthered Peña's image as some sort of gangster folk hero. Two of the music videos online tell the story of how Peña was killed, and claimed that he was betrayed by a former ally. Peña's sister claims that his murderer was suspected Gulf Cartel regional leader known as Eduardo Luna, who shot Peña from behind because Peña was guarding US$2 million in cash for the Gulf Cartel.\n\nShe claimed that after he killed Peña, Luna fled to the U.S., where he was later arrested for another murder and corruption case involving the United States Border Patrol. Peña's sister also claims that she had met Luna in Mexico, and that he killed several others before her brother. She said his alias in the Gulf Cartel was \"Comandante Pájaro\" (English: Commander Bird). Her claims were not independently verified by law enforcement, and she later declined an interview with \"The Texas Tribune\". Luna's defense did not comment on Peña's case.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1400667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1400667", "title": "Minorities at Risk", "text": "Minorities at Risk\n\nMinorities At Risk (MAR) is a university-based research project that monitors and analyzes the status and conflicts of 283 politically-active communal groups in many countries throughout the world from 1945 to 2006. Those minorities included have been deemed politically significant, meaning that the group collectively suffers or benefits from systematic discriminatory treatment at the hands of other societal groups and the group is the foundation of political mobilization and collective action in defense or promotion of self-defined interests. MAR seeks to identify where the groups are located, what they do, and what happens to them. The project is designed to provide information in a standardized format that aids comparative research and contributes to the understanding of conflicts involving relevant groups. The MAR project was initiated by Ted Robert Gurr in 1986 and has been based at the University of Maryland's Center for International Development and Conflict Management (CIDCM) since 1988.\n\nThe dataset does not include all minority groups across the world. There are specific requirements that limit the number of groups analyzed. Below are the seven database rules that must be met:\n\n\nMAR groups are categorized into six groups which refer to the populations’ past and current struggles on the basis of racial/historical/ethnical variances from the majority population of their country.\n\n1. Ethnonationalist: regionally concentrated peoples with a history of organized political autonomy with their own state, traditional ruler, or regional government who have supported political movements for autonomy at some time since 1945.\n\n2. Indigenous: conquered descendants of earlier inhabitants of a region who live primarily in conformity with traditional social, economic, and cultural customs that are sharply distinct from those of dominant groups.\n\n3. Ethnoclass: ethnically or culturally distinct, usually descended from slaves or immigrants, most of whom occupy a distinct social and economic stratum or niche.\n\n4. Communal Contender: culturally distinct peoples, tribes, or clans in heterogeneous societies who hold or seek a share in state power.\n\n5. Religious Sect: communal groups that differ from others principally in their religious beliefs and related cultural practices, and whose \npolitical status and activities are centered on the defense of their beliefs.\n\n6. National Minority: segments of a trans-state people with a history of organized political autonomy whose kindred control of an adjacent state, but who constitute a minority in the state in which they reside.\n\nThere are five phases completed thus far for the dataset. Phase I covered 227 communal groups, which met the criteria for classification as a minority at risk for the years 1945–90; Phase II covered 275 groups from 1990–96; Phase III covered 275 groups from 1996–9; Phase IV covered 283 groups from 1998–2003; and phase V covered 283 groups from 2003–06. Also available is the Minorities at Risk Organizational Behavior (MAROB) which began in 2005 with the purpose of answering fundamental questions focusing on the identification of those factors that motivate some members of ethnic minorities to become radicalized, to form activist organizations, and to move from conventional means of politics and protest into violence and terrorism.\n\nThe data is coded by-hand by undergraduate and graduate students under the direct supervision of directors. The information is culled from a variety of sources; journalistic accounts, government reports, group orgs, scholarly material. Coders rely upon multiple sources for each code assigned as often as possible. Variables are broken down into four categories: Group Characteristics, Group Status, External Support, and Group Conflict Behavior. For all of the phases, there are a varying number of variables for which have been coded. Phase V includes 71 core variables and 282 groups. There are codebooks for every phase of recorded data. The variables range from descriptive traits referring to their population and location in the world, to their active protests and rebellions, to the discriminatory practices that affect them. The data allows viewers to see trends by years, country, or conflict.\n\nSuch an analysis can be done over many years and at both the group and country level. For example, here are the calculated means for three variables, including rebellion, protest, and political discrimination, for African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans, and Native Hawaiians within the United States. The means for the years 1985–1993 can then be compared to the country's average as well as the overall average for all groups included in the database.\n\nThe codebooks allow for an understanding of what each number means (e.g., a 1 for political discrimination represents neglect/remedial policies and a 3 for protest represents small demonstrations numbering less than 10,000 actors).\n\n"}
{"id": "2446258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2446258", "title": "Mumuye people", "text": "Mumuye people\n\nThe Mumuyes are a people of Nigeria. They speak the Mumuye language. They constitute the largest tribal group in Taraba State of Nigeria and form the predominant tribes found in Zing, Yorro, Jalingo, Ardo-Kola, Lau, Gassol, Bali and Gashaka, all of which are local government areas of the state. Mumuyes are also widely found in many parts of the neighboring Adamawa State.\n\nThe chiefdom of Kwajji is a traditional administrative area created in the year 2005 by law of the Taraba state house of assembly along with a number of others in the state.\n\nIt forms with its counterpart the Mumuye chiefdom, a political territorial administrative area called Yorro local government council.\n\nAs a third class chiefdom, Kwajji is relatively little known both within the state and outside in greater Nigeria.\n\nKwajji in the chiefdom sense is a name connoting the amalgamation of several cultural, traditional and administrative areas into one entity. This comprises three distinctive clans of the Mumuye ethnic group namely Kwajji, Manang and Mika. The areas occupied by people of these three clans form the territorial entity of the chiefdom of Kwajji. In this light, it may be noted that the chiefdom derives its name from that of one of its component clans.\n\nThe chiefdom comprises three districts which in turn go by the clan names Kwajji, Manang, and mika that occupy the distinctive areas. By this development therefore, the name Kwajji may refer to either the district or its mother chiefdom. The persistence of this name Kwajji has its strength from the political evolution of the area that dates back the British colonial times. When they established at the beginning of the 20th century, all forms of administrative contact with this area in reference was centered in Kwajji village. It was from here that governance radiated to the two other clan areas of Manang and Mika.\n\nBy way of historical analysis, several factors probably came into play for the adaptation and establishment of the name Kwajji.\n\nThe settlements of Kwajji clan people lay on the ancient Muri to Adamawa road cited by Ajayi Crowther in the 19th century. This made them an obvious point of contact with travelers of various nature, who came this way since those days.\n\nKwajji clan people were relatively the more docile and forthcoming in the area in government perception. This attracted the administration to use the village as a contact point being located on the plains near the Mumuye hills which by then was defined as a “closed territory”.\n\nOn being used as an administrative point it was natural that all areas around Kwajji as one were given its name to identify the whole area administratively. This is not new since the British used such policy elsewhere. For instance “Lagos protectorate”, defined almost all of the old Oyo Empire, as Prof. Elaigwu et al. cited. Adamawa Province also at the early time was known as Yola Province etc.\n\nBeing also ethnologically half-Zing and half-Pugong in origin and language affiliation, Kwajji as identified by the British anthropologist CK Meek, at the time served as a convenient balance in administrative circles.\n\nThis status quo was not upset even when in later colonial days the area came under various administrative spheres like Muri Fulani (“indirect rule”), Zing district, Mumuye district, Kwajji district etc.; over historical periods.\n\nWith the formation of Kwajji district in 1937, and its headquarter sited at Kwajji village, the name became an indelible political dispensation as a reference to the area of this present day chiefdom.\n\nOther later developments also were instrumental in engraving the name Kwajji to the whole the area. Such as:-\n\nThe location of schools of various nature in this place thereby making it a center of learning for generations of people of other areas.\n\nA short-lived government Elementary school was brought along to Kwajji village with the creation of the district in late 1930s.\n\nThen as well the Sudan United Mission (S.U.M) Christians arrived in the 1940s and 50s raising a church outpost there preaching their gospel.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Mission also came to establish a school in Kwajji in the late 1950s. This served as a center of learning to the neighboring people.\n\nMuri local education Authority also raised a school several years later which drew pupils from all over the two other clan areas.\n\nAn area court, a police outpost and agricultural input/output center were located in the area all bearing the name Kwajji and which controlled all the areas. This made the name Kwajji more prominent record-wise, And a finality.\n\nThese historical antecedents however make no difference to the people of the chiefdom in terms of their unity and brotherliness. The identity of these people lies more on the traditional and cultural heritage they share which is more solid and dates back to times immemorial.\n\nThe area covered by the chiefdom of Kwajji is estimated at about 80 km square. It is approximately some 8 km from east to west, along the Zing-Jalingo road from Kan-iyaka mika to Dideleng near Yorro junction (mararaba Yoro). Then on the north –south axis from Dandikulu to Danzang is about 12 km. Manang has the territorial area in the north, Mika in the south and Kwajji in the west of the chiefdom.\n\nThe chiefdom is bounded by Zing local government area /chiefdom to the east. Along the Kunini river to the south is the Mumuye chiefdom. Finally there is the Apawa to Mayo-lope area of Lau local government/chiefdom to the north.\n\nThe chiefdom headquarter is now located at Pupule town (pop.4, 000) which is about 30 km to the north of Jalingo, along Zing road. The palace of the chief of Kwajji is sited there. Pupule was over time purposely selected away from the village of Kwajji because of its relatively central location nearer to mika and Manang areas and the district headquarter was moved there after a palace was hand built by local masons in 1954. The name Pupule “ bu pule ” meaning “hill of the jar of water weed”(comelina weed) which was abundant in that area of Kwajji cultivated by the Bolong, Laweki, and Dossa families. The name “Bu-pule” was corrupted in pronunciation by the British, Hausa/Fulani administration to “Pupule”. Even today the area of the palace location is known to Kwajji people as “Dan ja bu”.\n\nWhen the palace was moved to Pupule there was already a small settlement around a local market organized by one Dossa clan elder named “Tukuru”. The old trunk “A” road passed through Kwajji by the Chief’s Palace and through the market in Pupule to Zing and onwards. Other secondary roads link Pupule to other areas of the chiefdom like Manang, mika and Danzang. On the Manang road, the road passes through Boli, Lakware, Jika, Mabang and ends up at Dandikulu the farthest town on that side of the chiefdom.\n\nOn the Mika side the road rings round from Zogimba market at Mararaba, through Tsohon gari, Layang koro, Danzang and back to Pupule. All these roads are motor able throughout the year.\n\nThe main population centers of the Chiefdom are Pupule, Lakware, Jika, Mabang, Sabongida-mika, Tsohongari Mika, and Old-Kwajji. All these have local weekly local markets of significance in the local government area.\n\nThe three areas of Manang, mika, and Kwajji respectively form the three councilor wards out of the eleven in Yoro local government area of Taraba state. The area of the chiefdom is located within confines of longitudes 11°33’ to 18°40’ E and latitudes 8° 55’ to 9° 15’ N. Pupule town on an elevation of about 1,240m above sea level, with a bearing of 11°36’E and 09°02’N.\n\nThe statistical digest of the ministry of Economic Development, Yola (1978), gave the population of then Kwajji District the precursor of Kwajji chiefdom as 25,559. This was based on calculations with reference to the 1963 census. The same authority projected the population of the area by 1980 to a figure of 38,891 people.\n\nThe 1991 census is a controversial matter in the old district/chiefdom and indeed the entire LGA. This is because the LGA officially lodged a petition against the figures to the National Population Commission to the effect that many areas in the LGA, including then Kwajji District were not fully registered and counted. Therefore, the 1963 census remains the only reliable to used for projections. In this light the population of the chiefdom by 2013 stands probably at 83,516.\n\nKwajji chiefdom is Mumuye ethnically, traditionally, and culturally. This 3rd class chiefdom along with the 3rd Class chiefdom of Mumuye and the 1st Class Chiefdom of Zing form the three main entities that cover the Mumuye land proper. Overwhelmingly, the population of Kwajji chiefdom is made of ethnic Mumuye people. Kwajji generally is on a balancing position in Mumuye land. In geographical terms, it is midway between Zing in the East and Pugong in the west. Their language is a mixture of Zing, Yakoko, Pugong or so, in dialectical similarity. They tend to understand all the two extremes of Mumuye language even when the others don’t. In material culture they have adopted a balance of the variations found across the land, e.g. in wrestling, hunting festival Mantau, man hood ritual festival of Javah etc.\n\nNot withstanding, there are like in other parts of Nigeria, traces of other ethnicities that dell amongst the people in the chiefdom. This community of settlers mostly around Pupule includes Hausa/Fulani, Jenjo, Chamba, Jukun, Bachama, Kilba, Ibo etc. each of them several families at a given time.\n\nIt should be noted that the three main clans of Kwajji, Manang and mika also have other Mumuye clansmen dwelling amongst them such as Zing, Yakoko, Pugong, Sagbe, Gomla, with households here and there. Most of these non-indigene ethnicities were attracted to the chiefdom especially around Pupule which came to be a widely known produce market in the north-east region of Nigeria. The brand of yam derived from this market is among the most cherished all over.\n\nThe people in this chiefdom are mostly small scale peasant farmers that produce such crops as yam, maize, g/corn, millet, g/nuts, rice, beans, and other cereals typical of this region.\n\nKwajji chiefdom is populated with people that are generally quite amiable and friendly. Their manners contributed to the attractiveness of the area and its settlements to earlier governments, since colonial times which gave rise to the area being among the first to be “opened” in Mumuye land. For its openness to visitors, this chiefdom was at the earliest of times connected to the main trunk ‘A’ road that linked the south to the north-east region of the country.\n\nThe Mumuye people of the Kwajji chiefdom, like their brethren elsewhere in zing, Yoro, and further wide; claim that the place where their ancestors originate is Yoro. This place Yoro is located high in the mountains of south eastern part of present-day Yoro local government area of Taraba state. There are some theories that they might have originated from further away out of places like “Kam Hills “Cross river region”, etc. However, the most historically recent and undisputed place of origin for all Mumuye is Yoro.\n\nWritten records starting from the beginning of the twentieth century establish this later fact, from elders’ narrative and oral tradition. This coincides also more or less with scientific research on people of this region which confirms that they indeed are among the dwellers of these lands and region since ancient times.\n\nIn the eighteenth and nineteenth century when intertribal and jihadist warfare was rife, written records of the time and analysts show that like others of the Mumuye group all over they were never conquered or subject to anyone. They lived in their hill country, cultivating crops and foraging the jungles for game animals. Being warriors by nature, the clans frequently clashed among themselves. The Mumuye nonetheless came together collectively to fend off attacks from neighboring tribes. Oral history says that at different times there were clashes with Chamba/Dakka, Bachama, Fulani, etc. who later became friendly and partners in trade as well as marriage.\n\nIn terms of social organization Mumuye people were ruled by clan elders or extended family heads that also doubled in functions as the custodians of the traditional religion of “Vah”. When C K Meek a British Government Anthropologists toured the Mumuye land in the late 1920s he picked the Mika people extensively as a case study to represent Mumuye social organization and community life of that period. The clan heads in this chiefdom like all others in Mumuye land owed allegiance to the High Priest of Vah at old Yoro. They would from time to time visit to pay homage and consult.\n\nThis was the state the British found the people of Kwajji chiefdom when they arrived these lands to completely colonize Nigeria at the beginning of the twentieth century. The very first contact with British administration came when that much flaunted expeditionary force led by Dr Cargill and Capt Ruxton passed through here from Yola to demand the submission of the Emir of Muri (Hassan) at Jalingo in October 1901.\n\nThe end of the year 1901 brought the two Fulani Emirates of Adamawa and Muri on the north east and west, of Mumuye land respectively, firmly under British colonial hands. No attempt at the moment to interfere with the Mumuye people here was made by the new power and so they simply labeled them as “closed territory”. Captain Ruxton Resident in charge of Muri wrote that\n\n“…it may be thought that a solution of the question of including the tribes within the Emirate after they had been well ‘reduced’ by military force, … whether such a policy would be right or not, … am sure the Emir Muri has neither the means nor organization to keep tribes in order and to compel them to pay their land taxes.”\n\nThis would remain the case for over a decade to come until the year 1914 when Nigeria where we are today came into the political identity we now know it.\n\nReadjustments that led to the birth of Nigeria reached as far as the Mumuye land. Zing District was created as the first arm of government extending into the area. The main settlements of Kwajji being in close proximity to Zing were co-opted to the Chief of Zing for the purpose tax collection. This gave rise to the appointment of people of the Punya –Zing clan of Kwajji to serve as Village Heads. Punya-Zing of Kwajji were distant cousins of the ruling Kpana/Kodele clan in Zing.\n\nBy this extension of the administration of the chief of Zing[placed under Numan Division in Yola Province]he mandated the kpantis of Kwajji to collect taxes from Manang, Mika, Kwajji as well as in Pugong areas like Lacheke and Dila across the river. By 1926 all the Mumuye people were united and placed under Muri Division. However Zing District was raised to the status of a subdivision directly ruled by British officers, while Kwajji and Pugong areas were merged into one District – Mumuye District with headquarters at Pantisawa, under the indirect rule of the Muri Emirate.\n\nThe district on the insistence of the British was headed by the Rainmaker the Chief Priest of Mumuye tradition at Yorro. There was said to be a lack of enthusiasm to this position on the side of the Rainmaker and administration of the District faced difficulties.\n\nIn 1937, Kwajji District was carved out of the Mumuye District and its headquarters was established in Kwajji Village. The first person to head the district was Kpanti Yawai Sholoba a man from the Punya-Zing clan. He held court at Kwajji with assistance of the other two ward heads of Manang and Mika which comprised the area of the district. Kpanti Sholoba was deposed by the British in 1945. For five years no replacement was found from among the line of lineage of his clansmen. In their place the Emir of Muri sent down several caretakers [Wakilis] to man the district. In 1950 Kpanti Bello Toga from the household of Punya-Zing was appointed to take over the district. He oversaw the transfer of the palace and district office to its present location in Pupule.\n\nWhen the British departed, leaving the country independent in 1960, not much had changed in the social order of the area now known as the chiefdom of Kwajji. Within the decade of the 1960s however, Pupule was transformed slowly from a hamlet to a market town visited by many travelers. A mission [RCM] school was opened in 1958 in Kwajji and later transferred to Pupule in 1969. An Area court was established, with a Native Police [Dandoka] outpost. Later a health dispensary was built and an agricultural input and extension services office was also located there. There came a Works department road maintenance camp, cattle route rest house as well placed on the outskirts of town. The District was one of the favorites and the most peaceful in Muri Division and Emir Umaru Abba Tukur frequented it during the Civil war years.\n\nDistrict administration continued as it were under the British indirect rule. However now there was a semblance of democracy being that councilors were appointed to represent the interest of the various districts, peoples and clans such that there was one representative each for Manang, mika and Kwajji in the native Authority in Jalingo.\n\nWhen General Murtala Mohammed seized government in Nigeria in 1975, the great purge of the public service he embarked upon was felt everywhere including Kwajji district. The district Head Bello Toga was removed from office under reasons beyond his people’s comprehension; shrouded by the mystery and secrecy that usually surrounds the pervasive power of government.\n\nAfter a period of search for the successor of chief Toga, in 1976 Buba Nyala an area court judge of Mika extraction was appointed and filled the seat of the District Head. He too served under the tutelage of the Emir of Muri.\n\nThe creation of Gongola state out North Eastern State in 1976, Kwajji district fell under the new Jalingo local government area along with Pantisawa, Sunkani, Kona etc.\n\nWhen the second republic was ushered in 1979, Abubakar Barde a popular Mumuye man, became the state's first elected Governor. The area of this chiefdom was represented politically in the Gongola state house of assembly by one member [Pupule constituency]. In the four year life of the House, the elected member Umaru Garba from Pupule served as the House committee chairman of finance and Appropriations.\n\nIn further development of infrastructure in the area within that period, a tarred trunk ‘A’ road which passed on the outskirts of Pupule replaced the former laterite one that bisected the town. Bore holes were sunk for the first time to serve the town all in the period of the first Republic.\n\nIn 1982, a new local government area and council was created to cover the area of Kwajji and Mumuye districts. This however was short lived as it was disbanded with other newly created ones in Gongola state when Gen. Muhammad Buhari and his government overthrew the second republic in 1984.\n\nThe status quo was reversed with Kwajji district falling back under Jalingo LGA.\n\nThe Buhari government gave way to General Ibrahim Babangida's regime in August 1987 with little or no change in the area.\n\nChange came when Taraba state was created in August 1991. With this, a new Yorro LGA was created by incorporating Lau district to Kwajji and Mumuye with the headquarters at Lau. Not long after however there was a sigh of relieve when Lau was given its own LGA and the old Yorro LGA with its 1982 boundaries was re-established. Before the former LGA of Yoro was disbanded, a prominent politician Ayuba Alkali from Manang in the chiefdom became the first elected chairman in Lau.\n\nKwajji district was still represented by a member in the new Taraba state house of assembly in Jalingo. There still remained the three council wards of Manang, Mika, and Kwajji to represent the district in the present Yoro LGC.\n\nWhen General Sani Abacha seized power from the ill-fated third republic, he embarked on reforms in the political system nationwide among which deprived the Kwajji area of its representation in Taraba state house of assembly. It also knocked out many polling units in the area which have never been rectified up to date.\n\nThe creation of Taraba state brought government so to say nearer to the people. Subsequently, Kwajji and other traditional institutions experienced rapid development. The election as Governor of an illustrious Mumuye man Rev. Jolly T. Nyame on various term periods brought untold progress to the Mumuye people’s quest for emancipation. In his first tenure the palaces were given befitting face lift. District Heads were for the first time allocated motor vehicles. He capped this with a masterstroke when he at last in the year 2005 gave the Mumuye full autonomy culturally and traditionally. In his administration’s reorganization of the state’s traditional institutions, he upgraded 3 Mumuye areas to various ranked graded chieftaincy positions. Kwajji district was upgraded to third class chiefdom with headquarters at Pupule.\n\nThe palace was again given a befitting outlook and people celebrated. The promoted chief Alhaji Buba Nyala was handed the staff of office at last in the year 2008 after a protracted personal difficulty with the state Government.\n\nIn their memorandum submitted to the Danladi Baido committee that considered the reorganization of the traditional institutions, the Kwajji people pleaded that they be granted their own chiefdom to enable the people obtain their autonomy and promote the affairs of their tradition and culture as guaranteed by Nigeria’s constitution.\n\nSince the formal presentation of staff of office to His Royal Highness, the chiefdom operates on skeletal mode. Fiscal constraints probably have influenced the lack of full implementation of the appendages of the districts, under Kwajji chiefdom, as well as the statutes to guide its traditions.\n\nSome statistics and facts about the Chiefdom of Kwajji:\n\nContributing Sources:\n\n-Nigeria National Archives materials\n\n-Oral Traditions\n\n-Official current/contemporary documentation.\n"}
{"id": "38216440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38216440", "title": "New Zealand Attitudes and Values Study", "text": "New Zealand Attitudes and Values Study\n\nThe New Zealand Attitudes and Values Study (NZAVS) is a longitudinal study conducted in New Zealand. The NZAVS was started in 2009 by Chris Sibley, a professor in psychology at the University of Auckland. The NZAVS was inspired by major social surveys conducted internationally, such as the National Election Studies, the World Values Survey and the General Social Survey, and aims to provide a similar resource for New Zealand. As of November 8, 2016, the NZAVS research team had published 100 peer reviewed publications using data from the study.\n\nThe NZAVS uses a self-report inventory to collect information. The questionnaire is administered via both postal mail and an online survey. The NZAVS includes a large range of scales including those measuring self-esteem, national and personal wellbeing, satisfaction with life, religious beliefs, personality, psychological distress, ideologies, political and environmental attitudes.\n\nThe NZAVS has a nested data structure. Participants are modeled as the Level 1 or lower-level unit. The NZAVS contains geographic information from mesh blocks for each participant. Mesh blocks contain information about each participants local neighborhood based on census data from each meshblock. This information is modeled as the Level 2, or higher-level unit in many of the NZAVS research papers. Mesh blocks are small geographic area units, each containing roughly 100 people, with defined boundaries. Each mesh block is in turn nested within larger census area units (CAU; roughly 1000 people in size). Statistics New Zealand provide detailed demographic information about the population of each mesh block based on census data, such as median income, ethnic proportions and size, religious affiliation, etc. This information is integrated into the NZAVS datasets. Of particular note are the New Zealand Deprivation Index (an index of poverty or socio-economic status based on a principal components analysis of indicators of deprivation for each area unit); and a CAU-based Gini coefficient derived by Chris Sibley for use in the NZAVS, which provides an indicator of the income disparity within each region of New Zealand.\n\nThe NZAVS is a quantitative study, and data analysis for the NZAVS is conducted primarily in Mplus. Scripts outlining the statistical models developed using data from the NZAVS are provided online at the official NZAVS website. These scripts are provided to help promote research collaboration and transparency in data analysis. The study employs many different types of statistical analyses, including Latent Growth Modeling, Bayesian Linear Regression, Structural Equation Modeling, and analyses employing Mixture model and Multilevel model designs.\n\nThe NZAVS has been central in answering a variety of important research questions. This section lists research findings from the NZAVS that have received academic and media attention.\n\nNZAVS researchers Joseph Bulbulia and Chris Sibley published a study in PLoS ONE looking at how the Christchurch earthquakes may be linked to change in religious affiliation.\n\nData from the NZAVS has also been used to help validate and extend a public domain personality test assessing the Big-Six dimensions of personality in New Zealand. This personality scale is known as the Mini-IPIP6, and is based on the International Personality Item Pool. The Mini-IPIP6 is a 24-item self-report personality measure, which extends the original Big-Five Mini-IPIP scale to also include a sixth dimension of personality based on the HEXACO model of personality structure. The Mini-IPIP provides marker items for the following six dimensions of personality: Extraversion, Agreeableness, Conscientiousness, Neuroticism, Openness to Experience, and Honesty-humility. The Mini-IPIP6 has been validated for use in New Zealand in a series of peer-reviewed publications, and is in the public domain.\n\nNZAVS researchers, Carla Houkamau and Chris Sibley, have also used data from the NZAVS to help design programmes that benefit Māori people particularly in relation to health and education. They studied Māori identity and the factors that make Māori feel positive about themselves and Māori culture. This identity scale is known as the Multi-dimensional Model of Maori Identity and Cultural Engagement (MMM-ICE) and consists of six dimensions;(1) Group Membership Evaluation, (2) Socio- Political Consciousness, (3) Cultural Efficacy and Active Identity Engagement, (4) Spirituality, (5) Interdependent Self-Concept, and (6) Authenticity Beliefs.\n\nSam Manuela, a doctoral candidate from the University of Auckland, used the NZAVS data to develop a culturally sensitive self-report inventory to assess identity and subjective well-being among Pacific populations in New Zealand. The measure, known as The Pacific Identity and Wellbeing Scale, assesses five distinct, yet interconnected dimensions of Pacific identity and wellbeing; (1) Group Membership Evaluation, (2) Pacific Connectedness and Belonging, (3) Religious Centrality and Embeddedness, (4) Perceived Familial Wellbeing, (5) Perceived Societal Wellbeing.\n\n"}
{"id": "51521465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51521465", "title": "Pahang Malay people", "text": "Pahang Malay people\n\nPahang Malays (Malaysian: \"Melayu Pahang\", Pahang Malay: \"Oghang Pahang\", Jawi: أورڠ ڤهڠ) are a sub-group of Malay people native to the state of Pahang, in the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia. With population of approximately 1.08 million people, they constitutes 70% of Pahang state's population, making them the dominant ethnic group in the state. Their language, Pahang Malay is one of many Malayan languages spoken in the region that belong to the Malayo-Polynesian group of Austronesian family.\n\nAlthough their history goes back more than one millennium, the community came to prominence when the old Pahang Sultanate was established in 1470. The sultanate was merged with Johor in 1623, but later revived in 1881 and incorporated as protectorate of the British Empire. In 1948, it formed Federation of Malaya together with other Malay Sultanates in the peninsular, that later reconstituted as Malaysia.\n\nThe Pahang Malays, along with Terengganuan Malays and Kelantanese Malays (and sometimes Thai Malays and the Malays of Anambas islands and Natuna islands in Indonesia) are collectively referred to as the \"Orang Pantai Timur\" (People of the East Coast) due to their closely related history, cultures and languages.\n\nThe Tembeling Valley which constitutes the upper reaches of the Pahang River is an area of great historical significance to Pahang. There yielded many archeological relics of Paleolithic, Hoabinhian, Neolithic, Bronze, and Iron Age cultures. Ancient Pahang sits astride the 'Austric marchland'- the territory where the Mon-Khmer-speaking (Austroasiatic) cultures meet up with the Malayic and pre-Malayic-speaking (Austronesian) cultures. The early settlers lived by mining gold, tin and iron and planting rice. They left many traces; irrigation works, mine workings, remains of brick buildings, and probably the pottery industry at Kuala Tembeling. Ancient settlements can be traced from Tembeling to as far south as Merchong. Their tracks can also be found in deep hinterland of Jelai, along the Lake Chini, and up to the head-waters of the Rompin. One such settlement was identified as \"Koli\" from \"Geographia\" (2nd century CE), a thriving port located on the estuary of Kuantan River, where foreign ships stopped to barter and resupply.\n\nThe oldest known reference to Pahang – as the kingdom of 'Pohuang' (婆皇)- was found in the \"Book of Song\" from the 5th century CE. This polity is believed to be the southernmost extension of the federation of city states of Langkasuka-Kadaram, that later incorporated into an even larger federation of Srivijaya from the 7th century. It remains unclear when Islam began to gain its foothold in Pahang, but historian like de Erédia mentioned that Islam already introduced in Pahang before it was accepted by Melaka in the 15th century. Pahang, described by de Erédia as Pan, was one of the two kingdoms of \"Malayos\" in the peninsula, in succession to Pattani, that flourished before Melaka. The Pahang ruler then, titled Maharaja, was also the overlord of countries of 'Ujong Tanah' (land's end), the southerly part of the peninsula including ancient Singapore. The old court name was Inderapura, and the capital has always been known as 'the town'. The pre-Melakans calling it by Sanskrit name Pura, the Malays 'Pekan', the Portuguese 'a Cidade', while the people of Rompin and Bebar described the Capital as \"Pekan Pahang\". Pura may have covered a much larger than the town known as Pekan today. In addition to modern Pekan, it appears to have comprised the land on the banks of Pahang river as far as Tanjung Langgar.\nThe Malayisation of Pahang intensified from the mid 15th century after the state was annexed by Melaka Sultanate. Following a brief period of being a governorate, the state was established as a sultanate in 1470 by a Melakan prince, Muhammad Shah, and remained a vassal of Melaka until the latter's demise in 1511. In 1624, Pahang was nominally merged with Johor, when its 14th Sultan, Abdul Jalil Shah III was also proclaimed as the 7th Sultan of Johor. Pahang remained a constituent dominion ruled by the Bendaharas, until Johor Empire's gradual dismemberment in late 18th century. In 1805, ruler of Pahang, Tun Ali formally proclaimed independence, ending more than two centuries of union with Johor. His son, Tun Ahmad, who won the bitter civil war against his elder brother Tun Mutahir, revived the Pahang Sultanate after proclaiming himself Sultan of Pahang in 1882. Not long after that, the British imperialism manifested itself in Pahang with the appointment of a British Resident to the Sultan of Pahang in 1888.\n\nLike other Malay States, Pahang also suffered during the Japanese occupation of Malaya until the year 1945. Then in 1948, it joined the Federation of Malaya, which gained Independence in 1957. Today, Pahang is a prosperous state with an expanding economy, fuelled by agriculture, manufacturing and tourism.\n\nPahang Malays are known for their unique spoken language called Pahang Malay, and natively referred as \"Base Pahang\" (which means \"Pahang language\") or \"Cakak Pahang\" (which means \"Pahang speech\"). This form of Malayan language is closely related to Terengganu Malay (\"Base Tranung\") and Kelantan Malay (\"Baso Kelate\") due to their common origin. These east coast dialects demonstrate a number a shared lexical, synctatic, and phonetics innovations and their speakers can easily communicate with each other, although there are still some phonological and vocabulary differences.\n\nThe distribution of Pahang Malay is predominantly in the Pahang state, although there are other Malayan language spoken, for example a unique dialect of Tioman Island closely related only to Sarawak Malay spoken across the South China Sea. An east coast dialect, Terengganu Malay is in fact native in certain areas primarily in narrow strip of sometimes discontiguous fishermen villages and towns along the coastline of Pahang. This complicated spatial layering of different Malay variants, often within a few kilometres radius between hamlets of Pahang Malay speakers along the riverine systems and the Terengganu-speaking coastal fishermen villages, is influenced by the historical movement of Terengganu Malays to that area. There are small Pahang-speaking community in the valley of the Lebir River in Kelantan and the upper portions of several rivers near the Perak and Selangor boundaries, descendants of fugitives from the civil war that ravaged their homeland in the 19th century.\n\nThere are three main variants of Pahang Malay, spoken along the lining of the three main rivers; Pahang River, Jelai River and Lipis River, which differs between one another in phonological pattern and vocabulary. These variants have been classified further into two main sub-dialects; \"Hulu Pahang\" ('Upper Pahang') consisting Lipis and Jelai rivers variants, and \"Hilir Pahang\" ('Lower Pahang') consisting Pahang River variant.\n\nThe ancestors of modern Pahang Malays, were a hybrid community of multiple origins and cultures. The early settlers consist primarily from both various Mon-Khmer speaking Austroasiatic tribes and Malayic speaking Austronesians. These early communities, were largely animists, believing in the existence of \"semangat\" (spirits) in everything. Around the opening of the common era, Hinduism and Buddhism were introduced by Indian traders to the Malay Archipelago, where they flourished with the establishment of a Hindu-Buddhist state from the 5th century.\n\nThe shift into the dominant Malayic cultures with Siamese influence, is believed to have taken place \"in situ\", involving such political processes as the establishment of a late Srivijayan outpost in the Ithmus, the fall of Srivijaya, the extension of Thai rule into the area and lastly the arrival of Islam in the region from as early as the 14th century. Malayisation intensified in Pahang after it was established as a Malay-Muslim Sultanate in 1470, and continued until as late as the 19th century. The development of many Malay-dominated centres in the state, drew many of the aboriginals to embrace Malayness by converting to Islam, emulating the Malay speech and their dress.\n\nDue to their closely related history, Pahang Malays share a similar culture with other sub-groups of Malay people native to the Malay peninsula. They are in particular closely affiliated to peoples of the east coast of the peninsula like Thai Malays, Terengganuan Malays and Kelantanese Malays. Nevertheless, there are still aspects of Malay culture that unique to Pahang itself.\n\nIn the pre-Islamic Pahang, like most of the tropical world, the early traditional costumes were simple, using a single piece of cloth. This was the description by Fei Xin, a Chinese Muslim and an Arabic scholar who wrote in the \"Xingcha Shenglan\" in 1436. He wrote an interesting account of Pahang and its people, extract of the text of which are as follows:-\n\nThe \"knot\" mentioned above actually refers to the chignons ('sanggul' in Malay). There are various ways of tying the hair in a chignon or locks, and one of the hairstyles of the Pahang women is called distinctively as the \"Sanggul Pahang\" (Pahang chignon). When the trade with foreign countries flourished, the clothing styles began extensively accepting foreign influences and became more sophisticated. The 15th century was the time when Melaka Sultanate at its apex with Islam as its official religion. The strong Islamic influence had transformed the clothing styles in accordance to Islamic values. The early forms of Baju Melayu and Baju Kurung originated from this period, which both would become the primary traditional dress of Malay people for many centuries to come.\n\nOver the centuries, a distinctive style of Baju Kurung was developed in Pahang, commonly known as Baju Kurung Pahang or Baju Riau-Pahang, or sometimes called \"Baju Turki\". This is a long gown styled dress, cut at the front with 7 or more buttons and worn with a sarong.\n\nThe Malay handloom industry traced its origin since the 13th century when the eastern trade route flourished under Song dynasty. Mention of locally made textiles as well as the predominance of weaving in Malay peninsular was made in various Chinese and Arab accounts. By the 16th century, the silk weaving industry in Pahang had perfected a style called \"Tenun Pahang\", a special clothing fabric used in the special traditional Malay costumes and attires of Pahang rulers and palace officials. In addition to silk weaving, Batik weaving has been part of the small cottage industry in the state. Although not as popular, Pahang batik has, nevertheless, thrived as a small industry in the periphery of the fame and popularity of the Trengganu and Kelantan batik.\n\nSilat Melayu practiced in Pahang are diverse, with vast differences in training tools, methods and philosophy across different schools and styles. The Silat Melayu of Pahang may generally be divided into two major groups. Styles like Lincah, Gayong and Cekak which are widely practiced at national level in Malaysia, coexist with eclectic local Pahang styles like Silat Terlak, Silat Lian, Silat Tari Pulut, Silat Melayu Lok Keris 9, Silat Sendeng 2 Beradik, Silat Tongkat Panding Juan, Silat Laksamana, Silat Sutan Muaakad, Silat Pedang, Silat Setimbun Tulang, Silat Carik Kapor and Silat Sangkar Maut.\n\nOther forms of silat also exist especially in the very remote villages, with members consisting of a few students. The current law and regulations require that the silat bodies need to be registered as an association or club. Therefore, we find that those silat forms with very few members are those which are being practiced in a secretive way in remote areas and are taught only by invitation of the master.\n\nThe variety of styles of Silat Melayu not only demonstrated many different combat skills, but also the ability of the martial art itself in manifesting different personages and community in warrior traditions from various districts of Pahang.\n\nThe literary tradition in Pahang traced back to the time of the old Pahang Sultanate. Contribution into the rich Classical Malay literature is attested in the form of legal literature like \"Hukum Kanun Pahang\" and historical literature like \"Hikayat Pahang\". Until the early 20th century, many of the literary works were the effort of individual writers specialized in certain subjects. Among notable writers were Shihabuddin Zainal Abidin whose works are of religious literature in syair genre and Ibrahim Hj Yaacob whose works promote nationalistic sentiments in colonial Malaya. Other prominent literary figures include Ishak Haji Muhammad (Pak Sako), Keris Mas, Hj Zakaria Hitam (Pak Zek) and Hj Ibrahim Omar.\n\nThe natural setting of Pahang, its history, people and culture became important themes for the literature in Pahang. The famous fictional work of Ishak Haji Muhammad, \"Putera Gunung Tahan\" (1938) took Mount Tahan as its setting, while Keris Mas's \"Rimba Harapan\" set in Kampung Ketari, Bentong. There are also poems by Sahmad Malaya describing Janda Baik, Mount Tahan, Bukit Tinggi and Chini Lake. Another writer, Zakaria Hitam was a notable Pahang-born scholar known for his collection of oral tradition of Pahang folklore. Prominent Malay folklore of Pahang origin, includes such bardic tales as the legends of Putri Walinong Sari, Sang Kelembai,\"Seri Gumum Dragon\" of Chini Lake, and the white crocodile \"Seri Pahang\" of Pahang River.\n\nIn 1957, the community of Pahang writers established \"Dewan Persuratan Melayu Pahang\" ('Institute of Pahang Malay Letters') as a platform to promote new generation of writers and to spread Pahang literary works to the Malaysian masses.\n\nPahang folk songs refer to the collection of songs of unknown origin, possibly in existence among Malay communities in Pahang since the animistic era. The songs may be classified as a type of old oral literature in poetic forms, which exist in several different genres. The most notable one is a set of 36 songs in \"Indung\" dance. The singing of \"Indung\" begin with the song \"Anak Indung\", and ends with the song \"Pulang Indung\", in which both songs share the same melody but different in their lyrics. Another significant genre is a set of healing songs in \"Saba\" dance commonly performed to celebrate the recovery of a patient by a Bomoh (Malay shaman). As \"Saba\" is a part of the traditional curing, the lyrics have many special terms used in shamanistic charms.\n\nThere are other genres exist, among others are songs from traditional dances of \"Mayang\"', \"Limbung\" and \"Lukah\", songs from \"Dikir Rebana\", \"Berdah\", \"Main Puteri\" and \"Ugam\" performances, as well as \"Lagu dodoi\" (lullabies), \"Lagu bercerita\" (story telling songs) and \"Lagu Permainan\" (children game songs).\n\nPopular Pahang folk songs included; \"Walinung Sari\", \"Burung Kenek-Kenek\", \"Pak Sang Bagok\", \"Lagu Zikir\", \"Lagu Orang Muda\", \"Pak Sendayung\", \"Anak Ayam Turun Sepuluh\", \"Cung-Cung Nai\", \"Awang Belanga\", \"Kek Nong\" or \"Dayang Kek Nong\", \"Camang Di Laut\", \"Datuk Kemenyan Tunggal\", \"Berlagu Ayam\", \"Walida Sari\", \"Raja Donan\", \"Raja Muda\", \"Syair Tua\", \"Anak Dagang\", \"Puteri Bongsu\", \"Raja Putera\", \"Puteri Mayang Mengurai\", \"Puteri Tujuh\", \"Pujuk Lebah\", \"Ketuk Kabung\" (\"Buai Kangkong\") and \"Tebang Tebu\".\n\nOf the wide of Malay performing arts, many of are localized in particular regions, while others shared with a variety of local styles. Early forms of ritual theatre amongst the Pahang Malays include the \"Main Puteri\", \"Saba\" and many forms of \"Ugam\" performances. There are \"Ugam Mayang\", \"Ugam Lukah\", \"Ugam Kukur\" and \"Ugam Serkap\", all of which involve trance and serve as agents of healing through communication between a bomoh in trance and invisible beings who are believed to be one of the principal causes of diseases. \"Ugam Mayang\" is also popularly known in Terengganu and the rest of Malaysia as \"Ulek Mayang\".\n\nOne of the most popular dance theatre is Mak Yong, which is also performed in Kelantan and Terengganu, and based on east coast mythology. Performances involve about a dozen artists, accompanied by an ensemble of musicians playing the \"rebab\", gongs and drums (gendang). Popular dance forms also include \"Joget Pahang\"( a local style of \"Joget\"), \"Zapin Pekan\" and \"Zapin Raub\" (local styles of \"Zapin\"), and \"Dikir Pahang\" or \"Dikir Rebana\" (a modified and secularised form of dhikr or religious chanting, also performed in Kelantan as Dikir barat). \"Dikir Rebana\" which is further divided into \"Dikir Maulud\" and \"Dikir Berdah\", has many songs played by a group of 5 to 7 people and was historically performed in the royal court.\n\nPahang performing arts also include some native dance forms like \"Limbung\", \"Labi-Labi\", \"Pelanduk\" and \"Indung\". \"Indung\" is performed with a set of 36 songs traditionally sang by women while working in the paddy field, especially during grass cuting. Each song was attached with a specific \"pantun\". It is a group singing, in unison, where the form is an alternation between a solo singer and the whole group. There were no musical instruments involved in \"Indung\" singing. Within the \"Indung\" songs, there are many lullabies. On the other hand, there are also a few songs that are sung with dance movements.\n\nA distinct form of \"gamelan\" adopted from the Javanese culture during the time of Johor Empire, known as Malay Gamelan or \"Gamelan Pahang\", forms the main musical ensemble heritage in the state and patronized by royal court of Pahang since the 19th century.\n\nTraditional Pahang cuisine has a lot of similar features with other Malay cuisine, and features a lot of seafood. From its rivers and lakes come the fresh water fish such as the \"patin\" (silver catfish). Certain dishes are shared with other Malay groups, like \"Singgang\", \"Tembosa\", \"Satak\" and \"Lempeng Nyiur\" which also commonly found in Kelantan and Terengganu. While some other regional dishes are prepared in Pahang style like \"Ikan Bakar Petai\" and \"Laksa Pahang\". There are also popular foreign dishes prepared with the distinctly Pahang style like \"Murtabak Mengkasar\" and \"Puding Diraja\" ('Royal Pudding'), both can be found in Pahang's royal capital, Pekan.\n\nLike many other Asian cultures, the staple food in a Pahang culinary tradition is rice, which is commonly served with \"gulai\" or \"singgang\", \"ulam\" and \"sambal\" condiments. Popular \"sambals\" are \"sambal hitam\", \"sambal tempoyak\" and \"sambal belacan\". One of the most famous \"gulai\" in Pahang that has been established as the signature dish of the state, is \"Gulai Tempoyak Patin\". This is a traditional dish consists of juicy, tender patin fish cooked in curry made of \"tempoyak\" (fermented durian). Other notable Pahang \"gulai\" are \"Gulai Patin Asam Rebus\" (a dish similar to the \"Gulai Tempoyak Patin\" but the watery soup or gravy, tastes a little sour and spicy) and \"Gulai Asam Rong\" (a sour and slightly bitter taste gulai made of processed rubber tree fruits).\n\nOther popular Pahang dishes are \"Nasi Kebuli\", \"Opor Daging\" and \"Paceri Nenas\".\n\nFamous people from Pahang.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14292726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14292726", "title": "Political methodology", "text": "Political methodology\n\nPolitical methodology is a subfield of Political science that studies the quantitative methods used to study politics. It combines statistics, mathematics, and formal theory. Political methodology is often used for positive research, in contrast to normative research. It is similar to econometrics.\n\nPolitical methodology is often published in the \"top 3\" journals (American Political Science Review, American Journal of Political Science, and Journal of Politics), in sub-field journals, and in methods-focused journals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22702774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22702774", "title": "Prix Pictet", "text": "Prix Pictet\n\nThe Prix Pictet (Pictet prize) is an international award in photography and sustainability. It was founded in 2008 by the Geneva-based private Banque Pictet. The mandate of the award is to use the power of photography to communicate messages about sustainability to a global audience. Its goal is to uncover photography of the highest order, applied to current social and environmental challenges. The prize is judged by an independent jury and carries a prize of CHF 100,000. There is also a Commission, in which a nominated photographer is invited to document a sustainability project.\n\nEntry to the Prix Pictet is by nomination. As of February 2013, there were over 200 Prix Pictet nominators, a group of industry experts from around the world consisting of photographers, gallerists, agency heads, academics, authors, publishers, curators, photography foundation and others. Each nominated photographer is asked to provide a series of pictures coherently defined, focused on the theme of the award and limited to ten images.\n\nThe judges do not discriminate between photographs of different genres, or make assumptions about the types of audience for any class of photograph. After arriving at a shortlist of 12 portfolios, the jury make their final decision in a gallery setting. The winner of the Prix Pictet receives a cash prize of CHF 100,000, announced at an opening ceremony of the exhibition of shortlisted artists. The second element of the prize is a Commission, awarded to one of the nominated photographers, not necessarily shortlisted, at the discretion of Pictet. The Commission is related to a sustainability project supported by Pictet.\n\nThe pictures chosen by the judges travel the world for a year in a major exhibition.\n\nThe Prix Pictet was first awarded in 2008 and operates on a cycle of about 18 months. Past themes were \"Water, Earth, Growth, Power\" and \"Consumption\". From May 2014 the prize has been presented in partnership with the Victoria and Albert Museum in London and the Musée d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris.\n\n"}
{"id": "24362460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24362460", "title": "SeaWeb", "text": "SeaWeb\n\nSeaWeb is a nonprofit ocean conservation organization. Their mission is to raise public awareness, to advance science-based solutions and mobilize decision-makers around ocean conservation. SeaWeb was founded in 1996 by the Environment Group of the Pew Charitable Trust as an initiative to promote ocean conservation issues for Americans. In 1999, SeaWeb became an independent 501(c)3 organization, funded mostly from private charitable foundations, but also from individual contributions. In 2015, SeaWeb became part of The Ocean Foundation.\n\n\"SeaWeb is the only international, nonprofit organization exclusively dedicated to using the science of communications to fundamentally shift the way people interact with the ocean. We transform knowledge into action by shining a spotlight on workable, science-based solutions to the most serious threats facing the ocean, such as climate change, pollution and depletion of marine life. We work collaboratively with targeted sectors to encourage market solutions, policies and behaviors that result in a healthy, thriving ocean. By informing and empowering diverse ocean voices and conservation champions, SeaWeb is creating a culture of ocean conservation.\"\n\n\nThe SeaWeb Seafood Summit brings together global representatives from the seafood industry with leaders from the conservation community, academia, government and the media. The goal of the Summit is to define success and advance solutions in sustainable seafood by fostering dialogue and partnerships that lead to a seafood marketplace that is environmentally, socially and economically sustainable. The conference is produced in partnership by SeaWeb and Diversified Communications.\n\nPast Summits have included:\n\n\nThe Seafood Champion Awards were started in 2006 to annually recognize individuals and companies for outstanding leadership in promoting environmentally responsible seafood. SeaWeb established the award to honor those in the seafood industry whose past and/or present contributions demonstrate a commitment to innovation that leads to change.\nThe 2017 Seafood Summit honoured 16 finalists and five winners for advancing ocean health and sustainability.\n\n\nThe Seafood Champion Awards for 2016 were presented at a ceremony and reception the first night of the SeaWeb Seafood Summit in St. Julian's, Malta, held 1–3 February 2016. Sixteen finalists and six winners were chosen from more than 90 nominations for four entry categories: Vision, Leadership, Innovation, and Advocacy.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "558100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=558100", "title": "Shidduch", "text": "Shidduch\n\nThe Shidduch (, pl. shidduchim , Aramaic ) is a system of matchmaking in which Jewish singles are introduced to one another in Orthodox Jewish communities for the purpose of marriage.\n\nIn Orthodox Jewish circles, dating is limited to the search for a marriage partner. Both sides (usually the singles themselves, parents, close relatives or friends of the persons involved) make inquiries about the prospective partner, e.g. on his/her character, intelligence, level of learning, financial status, family and health status, appearance and level of religious observance.\n\nA \"shidduch\" often begins with a recommendation from family members, friends or others who see matchmaking as a mitzvah, or commandment. Some engage in it as a profession and charge a fee for their services. Usually a professional matchmaker is called a \"shadchan\", but anyone who makes a \"shidduch\" is considered the \"shadchan\" for it.\n\nAfter the match has been proposed, the prospective partners meet a number of times to gain a sense of whether they are right for one another. The number of dates prior to announcing an engagement may vary by community. In some, the dating continues several months. In stricter communities, the couple may decide a few days after originally meeting with each other. Also the age when \"shidduchim\" start may vary by community. In frum circles, especially among Hassidim, eighteen is the age when \"shidduchim\" start and \"shadchanim\" take notice.\n\nThose who support marriage by shidduch believe that it complies with traditional Judaism's outlook on \"Tzeniut,\" modest behaviour in relations between men and women, and prevents promiscuity. It may also be helpful in small Jewish communities where meeting prospective marriage partners is limited, and this gives them access to a broader spectrum of potential candidates.\n\nIf the shidduch does not work out, then usually the shadchan is contacted and it is he/she that tells the other side that it will not be going ahead. If the shidduch works out then the couple inform the shadchan of its success.\n\nIn recent years, a number of shidduchim sites have appeared on the Internet.\n\nThe prospective partners either date each other or in stricter communities they go to a \"bashow\" or sit in. The practice has been called \"a chaperoned quasi-date.\"\n\nA typical \"bashow\" scene is that the young man with his parents goes to see the young woman in her house (or that of someone hosting), to see if the prospective couple are compatible. Both sets of parents talk to each other, and then when the setting is more relaxed, they go into another room, leaving the man and woman in the living room to speak among themselves. Some use this opportunity to actually ask each other pertinent questions, while some just want to see if they like each other, relying more on the information they got from the \"shadchen\" or from other people. The number of \"bashow\"s prior to announcing an engagement varies, as some have many \"bashow\"s while others have as few as one, which is typical among the children of Hasidic Rebbes.\n\n\"Bashert\" (or \"Beshert\"), (), is a Yiddish word that means \"destiny\". It is often used to refer to one's divinely foreordained spouse or soulmate, who is called one's \"\"basherte\" (female) or \"basherter\"\" (male). It can also be used to express the seeming fate or destiny of an auspicious or important event, friendship, or happening.\n\nIn modern usage, Jewish singles will say that they are looking for their \"bashert\", meaning they are looking for that person who will complement them perfectly, and whom they will complement perfectly. Since it is considered to have been foreordained by God whom one will marry, one's spouse is considered to be one's \"bashert\" by definition, independent of whether the couple's marital life works out well or not.\n\nThe first recorded \"shidduch\" in the Torah was the match that Eliezer, the servant of the Jewish patriarch Abraham, made for his master's son Isaac (Genesis Ch. 24). Abraham gave him specific instructions to choose a woman from Abraham's own tribe. Eliezer traveled to his master's homeland to fulfill Abraham's wishes, arriving at a well. After a short prayer to God for guidance, describing how a virtuous woman might act toward a traveling stranger at the well, Rebekah appeared on the scene and did everything described in Eliezer's prayer. Eliezer then went with Rebekah to her family and appealed to them for permission to take Rebekah back with him to be Isaac's wife. Once this permission was granted, Rebekah joined Eliezer on the road home to Isaac. Even so, Isaac gained his own impression of her before agreeing to marry her (Rashi, commentary to Genesis 24:67).\n\nHowever, when Eliezer proposes to take Rebekah back to Isaac in Canaan, he is told by Rebekah's family: \"Let us ask the maiden\" (\"i.e.,\" Rebekah). This is taken as an instruction for Jewish parents to weigh their child's opinion in the balance during an arranged marriage. Regardless of whether proper procedure is followed, this is not the end of the decision - it is believed by Jews that the final say belongs to God, who may have different plans (compare with the match of Jacob and Leah).\n\nThe Talmud (Bavli Kiddushin 12a, first version) states that academy head Rav would give corporal punishment to a man who would marry without \"shidduchin\", that is, without prearrangement by the couple. The text gives three versions of Rav's practice; the other two versions disagree. Some authorities rule according to the first version, while others rule according to the other two versions.\n\nIn Kiddushin 41a states that a man should not marry a woman he has not seen, lest he come to violate \"Love your neighbour as yourself\".\n\nThe etymology of the words \"shidduch\" and \"shadchan\" is uncertain. The Medieval Rabbi Nissim of Gerona (commonly called \"Ran\") traces it back to the Aramaic word for \"calm\" (cf. Targum to Judges 5:31), and elaborates that the main purpose of the \"shidduch\" process is for young people to \"settle down\" into marriage.\n\nAlthough Torah law allows for a \"bat-kohen\" to marry a challal, convert, or freed slave (Hebrew \"eved meshukhrar\"), the Midrash and Talmud cite Rabbi Yochanan's view that a daughter of the kohen is best off marrying a kohen. Rabbi Yochanan maintains that in the event a \"bat-kohen\" marries a non-Kohen, undesired results for the groom are likely to surface, such as poverty or the demise of the groom. An exception to this taboo is if the groom is a \"Talmid Chacham\".\n\nConsidering the prevalence of a number of genetic diseases in both the Ashkenazi and Sephardi communities, several organisations (most notably Dor Yeshorim) routinely screen large groups of young people anonymously, only handing them a telephone number and a PIN. When a \"shidduch\" is suggested, the candidates can phone the organisation, enter both their PINs, and find out whether their union could result in critically disabled children. Although the implementation has been controversial, there has been a sharp decrease in the number of children born with Tay–Sachs disease and other genetic disorders since its inception.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13190119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13190119", "title": "Short Creek raid", "text": "Short Creek raid\n\nThe Short Creek raid is the name given to the Arizona Department of Public Safety and Arizona National Guard action against Mormon fundamentalists that took place on the morning of July 26, 1953, at Short Creek, Arizona. The Short Creek raid was the largest mass arrest of polygamists in American history. At the time, it was described as \"the largest mass arrest of men and women in modern American history.\"\n\nJust before dawn on July 26, 1953, 102 Arizona officers of public safety and soldiers from the Arizona National Guard entered Short Creek. The community—which was composed of approximately 400 Mormon fundamentalists—had been tipped off about the planned raid and were found singing hymns in the schoolhouse while the children played outside. The entire community was taken into custody, with the exception of six individuals who were found not to be fundamentalist Mormons. Among those taken into custody were 263 children. One hundred and fifty of the children who were taken into custody were not permitted to return to their parents for more than two years, and some parents never regained custody of their children.\n\nArizona Governor John Howard Pyle initially called the raid \"a momentous police action against insurrection\" and described the Mormon fundamentalists as participating in \"the foulest conspiracy you could possibly imagine\" that was designed to produce \"white slaves.\" More than 100 reporters had been invited by Pyle to accompany the police to observe the raid. However, the raid and its tactics attracted mostly negative media attention; one newspaper editorialized:\nBy what stretch of the imagination could the actions of the Short Creek children be classified as insurrection? Were those teenagers playing volleyball in a school yard inspiring a rebellion? Insurrection? Well, if so, an insurrection with diapers and volleyballs! \nIn the same week that the Korean War Armistice Agreement was signed, the raid achieved notoriety in media across the United States, including articles in \"Time\" and \"Newsweek\", with many media outlets describing the raid as \"odious\" or \"un-American.\" One commentator has suggested that commentary on the raid was \"probably the first time in history that American polygamists had received media coverage that was largely sympathetic.\" Another has suggested that the raid's \"only American parallel is the federal actions against Native Americans in the nineteenth century.\"\n\nWhen Pyle lost his bid for re-election in 1954 to Democratic candidate Ernest McFarland, Pyle blamed the fallout from the raid as having destroyed his political career.\n\nOne of the few media outlets to applaud the raid was the Salt Lake City-based \"Deseret News\", which was owned by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). The \"News\" applauded the action as a needed response to prevent the fundamentalists from becoming \"a cancer of a sort that is beyond hope of human repair.\" When the paper later editorialized its support for separating children from their polygamist parents, there was a backlash against the paper and the church by a number of Latter-day Saints, including Juanita Brooks, who complained that the church organization was approving of \"such a basically cruel and wicked thing as the taking of little children from their mother.\" The Short Creek raid was the last action against polygamous Mormon fundamentalists that has been actively supported by the LDS Church.\n\nAfter the Short Creek raid, the fundamentalist Mormon polygamist colony at Short Creek eventually rejuvenated. Short Creek was renamed Colorado City in 1960. In 1991, the Mormon fundamentalists at Colorado City formally established the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (FLDS Church). The members of the sect did not face any prosecutions for its polygamous behavior until the late 1990s, when isolated individuals began to be prosecuted. In 2006, FLDS Church leader Warren Jeffs was placed on the FBI Ten Most Wanted List; he was arrested in 2007 and in 2011 was convicted in Texas of two counts of child sexual abuse.\n\nOn 3 April 2008, following allegations of physical and sexual abuse by an unidentified caller who claimed to be a 16-year-old girl, law enforcement officers raided a FLDS compound Jeffs had founded in Texas called the YFZ Ranch. As of 8 April, a total of 416 children had been removed from the compound by authorities. A former member of the FLDS Church, Carolyn Jessop, arrived on-site 6 April and stated her opinion that the action in Texas was unlike the Short Creek raid. Others, however, have drawn direct connections between the two events.\n\n"}
{"id": "28743380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28743380", "title": "Slashdong", "text": "Slashdong\n\nSlashdong is a blog about teledildonics and similar use of technology for erotic purposes.\n\nIt is run by engineer Kyle Machulis, under the pen name qDot. It promotes DIY sex-toy designs and open-source software to drive them, including an Xbox modification to power a software-controlled dildo, and even a vibrator-control package for emacs called \"Deldo\".\n\nThe site has been featured in \"Wired\"'s \"Sex Drive\" column. Machulis has also been a speaker at several conferences on issues related to sex and technology including Etech and Arse Elektronika, his presentations remarked in the O'Reilly Conference Blog and the \"Digital Journal\".\n\nSince 2015 the site is no longer called slashdong, the new url is metafetish.com \"because Kyle got sick of explaining what slashdot was and that he didn't like cutting up penises\"\n\n"}
{"id": "41426348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41426348", "title": "Tanya S. Chutkan", "text": "Tanya S. Chutkan\n\nTanya Sue Chutkan (born July 5, 1962) is a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.\n\nChutkan was born on July 5, 1962 in Kingston, Jamaica. She received a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1983 from George Washington University and a Juris Doctor in 1987 from the University of Pennsylvania Law School. From 1987 to 1990, she worked at the law firm of Hogan & Hartson LLP (now Hogan Lovells). From 1990 to 1991, she worked at the law firm of Donovan, Leisure, Rogovin, Huge & Schiller. From 1991 to 2002, she was a trial attorney and supervisor at the Public Defender Service for the District of Columbia. She was a partner at the law firm of Boies, Schiller & Flexner, where her practice focused on complex civil litigation and specifically antitrust class action cases.\n\nHer husband Peter Arno Krauthamer, a judge to the bench in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia, was nominated by President Barack Obama on July 11, 2011.\n\nOn December 19, 2013, President Barack Obama nominated Chutkan to serve as a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, to a new seat created pursuant to 104 Stat. 5089, on July 1, 2013. She received a hearing before the United States Senate Judiciary Committee on February 25, 2014. On March 27, 2014 her nomination was reported out of committee by voice vote. On May 22, 2014 Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid filed for cloture on the nomination. On Tuesday June 3, 2014 the United States Senate voted 54–40 on the motion to invoke cloture. On Wednesday, June 4, 2014 the United States Senate voted in favor of final confirmation by a vote of 95–0. She received her judicial commission on June 5, 2014.\n\nIn February 2017, Public.Resource.Org was sued by the American Society for Testing and Materials, the National Fire Protection Association, the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers, and other entities for scanning and making available building codes and fire codes which these organizations consider their copyrighted property. Chutkan ruled against Public.Resource.Org, ordering all of the standards to be deleted from the Internet. \n\nIn summer 2017 Chutkan was presiding over the Imran Awan and Hina Alvi fraud case.\n\nIn \"Garza v. Hargan\" (2017), Chutkan ordered the Office of Refugee Resettlement to allow a girl in its care to have an abortion. That ruling was vacated by a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, reinstated by the full \"en banc\" D.C. Circuit, and ultimately mooted by the U.S. Supreme Court. In March 2018, Chutkan certified a class action and ordered the government to provide access to abortions to all girls in ORR's custody.\n\nOn June 8, 2018, Chutkan blocked until June 20 the release in Syrian Democratic Forces-controlled territory of a dual-nationality Saudi-American citizen alleged to have joined ISIL. The man, who is now held for nine months in Iraq, was planned to be released by the U.S. military – with a new cell phone, some food and water and $4,210 in cash, and his Professional Association of Diving Instructors (PADI) identification card, as soon as the next day.\n\n"}
{"id": "57835368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57835368", "title": "Tashons people", "text": "Tashons people\n\nThe Tashons people (Chin language; Taisun (or) Tlaisun; Burmese:တာရွှန်း) are ethnic tribes that lives in the Falam Township, in the central part of Chin State, Myanmar. The Tashons were the most powerful tribes in the north of Chin Hills, prior to the British Empire annexation of Chin Hills. Their influence reached over the borders of Manipur in the north, Lusai Hills in the west, Phau river in the south and Kalay-Kabaw valley in the east. They practiced democracy system where the position of Chief was attained not by the virtue of birth but by vote of the people. The Tashons tribe and their villages were ruled by the Fahlam Council (or) Tashon Council, locally known as “Nam Kap”. It was also called as The Tashon Democratic Council. The Tashons people have their own language, customs and culture.\n\nLegend has it that the original parents of Pu Tashon came out of a solid rock locally known as Lailun, located in Falam Township. Lailun is also believed to be the mythical birthplace of the Chin ancestors. Pu Thuan Kai believed to be one of the first settlers near Lailun had a son called Pu Tashon. Today, the descendent of Pu Tashon i.e. Hlampi, Hlawnmong, Tungsawh, Tothuang Upa, Tothuang Nauta, Zahre Upa, Zahre Nauta, Conthawng, Hringngen, Thla-um, Kaltsiing, Cawilawn and Saza are known as Tashons (Taisun Hrinkhat).\n\nAround AD 1500, Pu Tashon moved out from Lailun and established a village in his name i.e. Tashon village. Tribal wars were common at that time and this village was attacked several times by various tribes. When this village was attacked, the Tashons usually hid their children and elders in a secure place, approximately a mile away from the village. There, the Tashons later established a village called Fa-Hlam. According to the hearsay of the Tashons “Fa” means “Children” and “Hlam” can be interpreted as “Secure place”, thus, the name Fa-Hlam could be literally translated as the secure place where people live peacefully. The Tashon village and Fahlam village were separate villages.\n\nTheir old village Tashon was largely abandoned and the reason for its abandonment was due to superstition. The reason for its abandonment was that a beautiful Burmese maiden, finely dressed in silks and jewels, appeared in a cave in the rocks above the Tashon village. Whoever looked on this Burmese Medusa, however, quickly perished; hence they established a new village Fahlam and migrated there. The village of Fahlam had six quarters with 600 household prior to the British annexation. When the British entered the village in 1892, the household was recorded to be at approximately 500. The village was divided in to six quarters i.e. Butu, Laiko, Phangpho, Hliap, Khawthar, Lu-ung and the quarter chiefs were elected by the Fahlam council. Today, the Tashon village still has three quarters namely Butu, Phangpho and Khawthar. The Tashons were known in various names, such as ‘Tashon’ by the Burman and the British, ‘Phalamte’ after their principle village by the Sizang and Tedim, ‘Fahlam’ or ‘Tlaisun’ by their neighbours, however, they called themselves ‘Tashons (or) Taisun’.\n\nAfter Fahlam was established by the Tashons, they gradually brought all their neighbours under their control. The Tashons were keen traders and they came to control the entire east and west trade between the Lushai, central Chin Hills and the Kalay Valley. They maintained a good relationship with the Swabwa of Kalay Valley where major goods such as salt, iron, ornaments and others were imported. They established a trade route between Fahlam and Kalay Valley and built the suspension bridge over the Manipur river. It was the only known established trade route between the northern Chin and the plain at that time.\n\nBefore 1890, other Chin tribes raided the Kalay-Kabaw valleys and carried whatever they could, back to the Chin Hills. Being the most influential tribe, the Tashons could exercise their authority over other tribes in Chin Hills. During those days, the Sawbwa of Kalay and the Fahlam council made a defensive and offensive alliance. The Fahlam Council gave protection to the Kalay valley i.e. whoever raided the Kalay valley were severely punished by the Fahlam council. The Fahlam council destroyed Hrimpi (a Hakha village) because it raided the Burmese village of Kungyi. In return, the Kalay Sawbwa gave sole trading right to the Tashons which meant the Tashons got salts, irons and other items from the plains and distribute throughout Chin Hills which earned them large profit. This had enabled the Fahlam council to hold a monopoly of the trade in Chin Hills, as they are able to undersell all other traders; and to further ensure that there should be no competition, they put every obstacle in the way of other villages going to the plains. Their controlled over trade was also the key factor to hold their power. Their political system, their skilled in diplomacy and their alliance with the Shan of the Kale valley enabled them to become the most powerful tribes in Chin Hills. The tribes became very powerful and their ancestral song runs thus: \nAlthough their influence reached over vast areas in the Chin Hills, their authority did not extend to administration of the vassal tribes but it did include “protective custody” of the whole area, so that if any tribe behaved badly the Tashons could and would organise a punitive expedition, composed of the toughest men in all the other tribes under their control, to smite the offender [HNC Stevenson]. They held a unique position in Chinland at that time. All the tribes from Manipur to Hakha and from Burma to Lushai owed them nominal allegiance. They hold their position in Chin Hills, not so much through their prowess in the field as through the ingenuity and thus uphold their rule over the whole.\n\nTashons were the only tribes who practiced democracy system prior to the British annexation, whereas, other tribes in Chin Hills practice feudalism. The Tashons area were administered by a council of five chiefs, who were all chosen from the villages such as Fahlam (Taisun), Conghte, Congheng and Zamual. The known councillors from the Fahlam Council are as follows: \nFrom 1865 until the British annexation of Chin Hills i.e. 1892, the Fahlam Council was led by Pu Con Bik known by the Burmese and British as Son Pek. The other council members were Pu Mang Hlur, Pu Cong Khar, Pu Bawi Hmung and Pu Kha Lian. Pu Kha Lian and Pu Mang Hlur served in the council led by Pu Kip Bik. They continued to serve in the council led by Pu Con Bik. The post of councillor was attained, not by virtue of birth, but by the vote of the people. Only when a common man who is particularly conspicuous as a soldier, who shows his skills in trade and diplomacy, who attain the highest social class among the Tashons society was elected to be the Councillor. If one person was chosen to be a Councillor then they promoted him through marriage so that he belonged to the council families.\n\nFor the people of Tashons, the absolute power lies with the Fahlam council. “Unity is strength” was the Fahlam motto. Each day, the council met in the morning at the house of one of the council members and they discussed tribal affairs including making decisions on cases brought to the court, and matters related to revenue. The Fahlam council members always adopted a democratic procedure to elaborate matters concerning administration or judicial concern before coming to a decision. In Fahlam, none of the councillors alone had the power to decide any case. The council members had to discuss everything and the people are very envious of the power and prestige. E.B. Elles writes “The chiefs have more power in their tribe than any other Chin tribes. This is because they never act separately, but together after consultation”\n\nIn some important matters like going to war, the Fahlam council convened a federal council meeting in which not only the chief or council members but also elders of the main village and others satellite tribes participated. When the British invaded Chin Hills, the Fahlam council had managed to raise 3,000 warriors from all tribes, all corners of Chin Hills and stood against the invading enemy. The use of their system allowed not only the Chin people to be united but also to show loyalty to each other, the recognize virtue of the Chin people. Tribal wars were fought numerous times among each other, however, in time of danger, the Fahlam council managed to unite the Chin people to fight side by side against the British Empire.\n\nThe Kingdom of Myanmar fell under the British Empire in 1885, however, Chin Hills did not fall automatically under the British colonial rule. Chin Hills at that time was independent nation and the Myanmar King Thibaw authority did not reach over Chin Hills. After the Burmese capital Mandalay was occupied, the British force then moved to the Burma western borders and annexed Kalay valley in 1886. The British administration in Burma disposed the Swabwa (ruler) of Mang Yit and appointed his nephew Sawbwa Maung Pa Gyi on 1 January 1887. The British administration in Burma and their western neighbour, the Chin people started to have contact in 1887. The upper Burma political officer, Captain F.D. Raikes arrived in Kalaymyo on and sent out messengers to the chiefs of Fahlam (Tashon), Sizang, Kamhau, Sukte, Zokhua and Hakha requesting them to come to the plains. Captain Raikes met with four Sizang Chiefs, Ton Suang, Hau Suang (brother of Sizang Chief Khup Pau), Do Son and Ten Sang on 26 December 1887 at Kalaymyo monastery. He also met with Kamhau delegate Pu Lun Sat on 8 March 1888. Zokhua and Haka chiefs not only refused to meet Captain Raikes but also killed two messengers sent by him.\n\nCapt. Raikes arrived at Indin (principal village of Kalay Sawbwa) on 17 March 1887 and held a meeting with Sawbwa Maung Pagyi. During that time, the Kalay valley was in turmoil as civil war broke out between the old Sawbwa (Maung Yit) and new Sawbwa Maung Pagyi. Moreover, the Sizang Chin taking advantage of the civil war, descended from the hills and raided the valley. Prior to the British annexation of the Kalay valley, the Sawbwa in the Kalay valley and the Fahlam council had defensive and offensive alliance. Consequently, Pu Con Bik (the leader of the Fahlam Council) gave protection to the valley and when other Chin tribes raided the plains, the Tashon army then punished those responsible for the raids. Captain Raikes and Sawbwa Maung Pa Gyi discussed ways to end the civil war and how they can protect Kalay valley from Chin raids. The British arrested old Sawbwa Maung Yit and his associates and sent them to Jail in Mandalay and to stop the Chins from raiding the plains, Captain Raikes noted in his diary as thus: \"To attain immunity from raids without recourse to assures it will be necessary to talk with the Chiefs of the Chin tribes of the five principal tribes within raiding distance of the Kale [Kalay] country. The Tashon tribe is the most powerful and the Tashon Mingyi is looked up to by the Chiefs of the remaining tribes; the Tashon tribe has fortunately been friendly towards Kale [Kalay], all raids have been confined to the Siyin [Sizang] and Sagyilain [Sakhiling] tribes. The Sawbwa has sent out a deputation to ascertain whether the Tashon Mingyi [Pu Con Bik] will meet him in the course of a few weeks when they prepare to go through the usual formal ceremonies which are customary when contract are made with the Chin tribes\". A messenger was sent to Fahlam (The capital of Tashon tribes) and Tashon Mingyi (Fahlam Chief) Pu Con Bik sent seven men as delegation to Indin (principal village of Kalay Swabwa).\n\nThe Tashon delegation and Capt. Raikes met on 21 March 1887 and Capt. Raikes said “\"The British had permanently annexed upper Burma, that the Swabwa of Kale had been nominated by the British government and that raiding on villages in the Kale country and Kabaw valley on the right bank of the Chindwin between Kalay and Thaungthut must ceased\"”. The delegate replied that “\"As soon as the Kale Sawbwa has established his headquarter and a formal contract had been entered into, the chiefs of the Tashon tribe would call upon the chief of the sagyilian [Sakhiling], Kamhau tribe to agree to stop raid and in case of them failing to come in and agreeing to the raid the Tashons tribe would be willing to help the Sawbwa and to assist him in fighting tribes which continue raids in the kale country\"”. After the meeting, Capt. Raikes show the power of rifle to the Tashons delegation and they were astonished. Capt. Raikes remarks that “\"I think this has a better effect than the present I gave them yesterday\"”. Captain Raikes then arranged further meeting with the Tashons principal Chief Pu Con Bik. The meeting was arranged at Indin but Pu Con Bik refused to go, instead, he asked Captain Raikes to come to Sihaung. Captain Raikes then ride to Sihaung which is 12.75 miles from Indin. When he arrived at Sihaung, Pu Con Bik then asked him to come to a small village within the Chin territory called Kaanhla, 2 miles south west of Sihaung. Captain Raikes and Pu Con Bik met on 3 January 1888.\n\nThe main discussion was about opening a trade route to India through Chin Hills. Pu Con Bik refused to agree and even reluctant to negotiate about a trade route. During the first Anglo–Tashon conference, Capt. Raikes successfully showed off the power of rifle guns. This time, he prepared a cannon and fire two volleys and five rounds of independent firing. Captain Raikes showed off the might and power of the British force and tried to scare off the Chin, however, it was a bad move as Pu Con Bik started to get doubt on the intention of the British. He realized that the British would invade eventually, thus, he prepared for war from this point on ward. Coincidentally, the old Sawbwa Maung Yit and his associates broke out of Mandalay prison and seek asylum in Tashon capital, Fahlam which they were all granted asylum. The Tashons were suspicious after their interview with Captain Raikes,and the Shan sawbwa persuaded them to espouse the cause of the Shwegyophyu Prince, and to aid him in fighting against the British Government. Pu Con Bik also granted political asylum to Shwegyopyu Prince (son of Kanung Mintha) who was wanted by the British for killing two British officers at the Chinbyit Battle.\n\nA combine force of Tashons, Sizang, Kamhau, Sukte and the Burmese launched an offensive against the British by raiding Indin on 4 May 1888 and occupied Sihaung and Indin. They also attacked British military police posts at Kalaymyo and Kanpale (No.1 Stockades). This was followed by incursions into the plains in which the Yazagyo and Homalin were targeted. The Sizang warriors attacked Chitpauk on 17 October and Kantha on 22 September. Sukte and Kamhau tribes also attacked the Kabaw valley destroying Khampat in their wake. A combine force of Sizang warriors and Burman led by Sawbwa Maung Yit occupied Yazagyo. The British forces then quickly reinforced and counterattack the Chin warriors. The Chin warriors then retreated back to Chin Hills. Pu Con Bik also made alliance with tribes from Hakha, Zokhua and Sakta areas whom were to act in accord with the Tashons. The combine force of Chin warriors and Burman under the leadership of Tashons were as follows- \n\nAs the Chins and Burman forces attacked across the Kalay and Kabaw valleys, the British Army then prepared for the annexation of Chin Hills. The British administration then sent ultimatum to the Sizang chief to deliver Khai Kam together with the captives whom he carried off. Ultimatum was also sent to the Fahlam Council to deliver the Shwegyophyu prince and his followers. The British believed that the invasions of the plains were instigated by fugitives Shwegyophyu Prince, old Shan Sawbwa. When those ultimatums were ignored by the Sizang and the Fahlam council, the British force then prepared to launch expedition known as The Chin-Lushai Expedition (1888-1889). The British spent the month of November 1888 preparing for the expedition. Brigadier-General Faunce and Captain Raikes, established defensive positions along the valley. A levy of Military Police (later 2nd Battalion of Burma Rifle) guarded the Yaw valley against the depredations of the Southern Chins. Capt. Raikes and his assistant Mr. Hall collecting intelligence about the Chin, their village and the routes into the hills. Hills coolies were collected in Assam and sent for the expeditions. The forces for expedition were gathered at Kanpale (Stockade No.1) and 42 Gurkha Battalion was added for the expeditions.\n\nThe British army strategy was to first march against the Sizang head village Khuasak, then deal with the surrounding villages. The route selected for the advance of the column was from Kanpale to the summit of Leisan range. There was no road to the hills at that time, therefore, a road had to be constructed for the main invading force and their heavy weaponry. At the beginning of December 1888, the road (mule track) construction was completed until the foot of the hill, there they established No.2 Stockade i.e. Zawlkin (now Khai Kam Town). The road construction continued towards the hills and the reach at Phatzang where a rough No.3 stockade was established. On hearing the news of the British advance, the combine force of Sizang, Kamhau and Sukte attacked the British force. The Sizang were in constant co-ordination with the Tashons. On the 10 December 1888, the great force of Tashon made a simultaneous attack on the villages of Sihaung, Kyawywa and Kundu. At the same time, 80 Tashons warriors clashed head to head with 42 Gurkha Light infantry led by Captain Westmoreland. On the same date, the Sizang attacked Indin and a combined force of Sukte and Kamhau attacked the military post at Kangyi (20 miles north of Kalemyo). The Chins showed their planning abilities and military capabilities in this simultaneous attack to the various British positions. The British officers were impressed by the Chin capabilities as political officers B.S Carey & H.N. Tuck wrote in the Chin Hills: ”\"The Chins were in great force, and we now know that Tashons and Siyins (Sizang) were fighting side by side on this occasion. The Chins swooped down from the heights on to the party, which was working on a narrow spur, and attacked them from all four sides, fighting under cover of heavy undergrowth. The collies bolted and the troops fell back after holding their ground some little time. Whilst disputing every stage of our advance into their hills, the Chins showed considerable tactical ability by taking the offensive in the plains and attacking Shan villages and our posts in the rear of advancing column\"”.\nSince, the Chin showed their military skills by inflicting some losses on the invading forces, the British Army took the Chin seriously. General Sir. George White Commander-in-Chief of Burma, personally came to supervise the expedition. He arrived in Kanpale (near Kalaymyo) on the 30 December 1888 and accompanied the expedition forces. The Chin warrior built a stockade at Leisan Mual (Red Rocky Gate) and stood firm. On the 27 January 1889, the Chin warriors attacked the road workers and the British send their troops to engage with the Chin warriors. The Chin warriors gave them strong resistance but the British fire power forced the Chin warriors to retreat. The Chin warriors then stood firm at Leisen Mual stockade which is the last line of defence. The British couldn’t take the stockade so reinforced was then ordered then the British Force charged a gain and the stockade was occupied. As the last line of defence was breached by the superior British force, the door to the Sizang valley was wide open. The British forces march to Leisang range, from there they can see the villages within Sizang valley. General George White described his experience of the battles with the Chin as “The most difficult enemy to see or hit I ever fought\" The British forces defeated the Sizang and established Fort White post, in honour of General George White. After the British force established Fort White post, Major Raikes remained as Political Officer and Colonel Skene in command of the troops in Chin Hills. After the villages of the Sizang and Kamhau were destroyed, they were living in encampments near their respective cultivation. Although they were beaten by a far superior force and driven by their village, they showed no sign of surrender and attack the British post whenever they had opportunity. They ambushed the British, they cut telegraph cables and stole cattle from the British whenever possible. The Sizang resisted the British from the forest for two years.\n\nAfter the Chin – Lushai Expedition of 1888-1889, Major Raikes then opened up negotiations wiih the Tashons, however, Pu Bawi Hmung from Fahlam Council informed the Major Raikes that the Tashons refused to surrender the Shwegyophyu Prince and his associates, and they were not in a position to enforce the surrender of the Burman captives held by the Sizang and Kamhau. The British wanted to advance to Tashon territory however, as the monsoon season was closing, the expedition to Tashons territory had to be postponed for the year. At the end of 1888-1889, the British force suffered 67 casualties during the expedition and the state of affairs was that all the Sizang and 18 of the Kamhau villages had been destroyed, and the British troops now occupied their tract (northern Chin Hills). The Tashons continued to grant political asylum to Shwegyophyu Prince and his associates. In the East, the Chin-Lushai Expedition 1888-1889 started in December 1888 and largely ended in May 1889 after the battle of Siallum.\n\nThe British army invaded Western Chin Hills which is now part of Mizoram, in 1871-72 known as the Lushai Expedition (1871–72). Then there was relative peaceful in the western border until the murder of Lt. J.F. Stewart, 1st Battalion of Leinster Regiment by Lungtian chief Hau Sata on 03 Feb 1888. Lt. Stewart with his bodyguards were surveying for the road construction at 18 miles east of Rangamati and were to work southward towards Bilaicharai. They were ambushed at their camp in the dawn of 03 Feb 1888, by 300-armed man led by Lungtian Chief called Hau Sata. They killed Lt.Steward and 3 of his bodyguards. Lt. Stewart head was cut off and taken to Thangzang village. Soon after the incident, the British army sent a punitive force to avenge the murder. In 15 March 1889, 1000 British soldiers led by Col. Tregear known as “The Chin-Lushai Expedition 1888-89” marched toward western Chin Hills to punish Hau Sata and Thantlang Chief Za Huat. This expedition started on 28 January 1889 and ended in April 1889. They conquered part of the Western Chin Hills including Hau Sata village of Lungtian and Fort Tregear was established at Darzo.\n\nThe Sizangs and Kamhau were active in the northern Chin Hills attacking the British posts whenever they had opportunity. The Tashons still giving protection to Shwegyophyu Prince and his associates. In August 1889, Chief Commissioner of the British Crown Colony of Burma Sir Charles Crosthwaite visited the Kalay area and after discussing matters with Major Raikes issued a proclamation to the Tashons. The Chief Commissioner Major Raikes declared to the Tashons that his intention of sending a force to their chief village [Fahlam] and promised the Tashons immunity from punishment and an amnesty for past offences on condition that they assisted the troops in their march and did their best to compel the Sizang and Kamhau to surrender their captives. The Chiefs were required also to meet the officer in command of the British force at the chief village [Fahlam], to deliver up all captives in possession of the tribe, and to pay a fine of Rs. 10,000. The payment annually of two elephant tusks and ten silk sheets as tribute was made a further condition. Failure to comply with these terms would involve the severest punishment Being unwilling to drive the Tashons to extremities, the Chief Commissioner waived the condition previously imposed which required the surrender of the Shwe Gyo Byu Prince and made no mention of the demand for the delivery of guns by the Sukte and Sizang.\n\nOrders for an expedition known as The Chin-Lushai Expedition (1889-1890) from Burma and Chittagong were issued from Army headquarters in Burma and India on 5 September 1889. The troops operating from Burma were divided into two columns, one called the Fort White column (or) northern column operating from Fort White as a base against the Sizang and the tribes between the base and the Manipur river. The other called the Gangaw column (or) southern column starting from Gangaw as a base and advancing via Zokhua on Haka. A force called the Chittagong column was to march from Lunglei to Haka, making the road as it advanced. After the arrival of the force at Hakha, the columns were to move northward against the Tashons and in such other directions as the General Officer in command might decide in consultation with the Political Officers. The objects of the expedition were declared to be the punishment of tribes which had committed raids in British territory and had declined to make amends, the subjugation of neutral tribes which had come within our sphere of dominion, the exploration of the country between Burma and Chittagong, and the establishment, if necessary, of semi-permanent posts in the hills to ensure complete pacification and the recognition of British power. Brigadier- General W. P. Symons was placed in command of the expedition with full control in political as well as military matters.\n\nPrior to the launch of this Chin-Lushai Expedition, Major Raikes and the Tashons leaders held final negotiation at Sihaung. Major Raikes asked the Tashon leaders to accept the British proclamation, pay tributes annually to the British government, or the British army will annex the Tashons territory. The Tashons leaders imply refuse to accept the proclamation. As this final negotiation was not fruitful, both sides prepare for war.\n\nWhile the Chittagong column and southern column were marching towards Hakha, the Fort White column launched operations from September 1889 until December 1889 to subdue the Sizangs, Kamhau and Sukte, however, they could not defeat them. They burned their houses and destroyed their crops, however, the Chin continued to fight from the jungle. The British realized that the Sizangs would not be defeated by merely burning their houses and destroying their crops, therefore, they started negotiation for them to surrender. Chin Hills political officers Mr. B.S. Carey managed to open communication channel with the Sakhiling Chief Mang Lun and he did surrender to the British on 17 January. His surrender was significant to the British and through him negotiations were carried out to others Sizangs leaders. Chief Mang Lun also informed the Political Officer that the conduct of the Sizang tribe would depend entirely on the result of the Tashon expedition, and that, if the Tashons did not fight, the Sizangs were not prepared to continue the struggle alone. The British then temporarily abandoned military operations to the Sizangs, who resisted under the leadership of Pu Khai Kam. Their focus turned to the invasion of Tashon territory. The British believed that Sizangs would also surrender if Tashon submit to the British. Meanwhile, The 3,400 strong Chittagong Column led by Brigadier Tregear marched from Lunglei and Fort Tregear and annexed the western Chin Hills i.e. Thantlang areas. The 1,869 strong Gangaw/Burma column led by General W. Symond marched from Kan – Pakokku towards Zokhua. Eventually Zokhua, Sakta and Hakha surrendered to General Symonds. The Chittagong column and the Southern column had got in touch via light signal at Thau, 53 miles west of Hakha. The two columns then met at Hakha and preparation were made to advance to the Tashons capital Fahlam.\n\nThe southern column consists of 100 rifle soldiers from King’s Own Scottish Borderers, 164 rifle soldiers from Second and Fourth Gurkha Rifles including two mountain guns led by General Symond marched towards Fahlam on 10 March 1890. The Southern column marched from Hakha via Mangkheng to Fahlam. When the column reached to Mangkheng, the Chief of Mangkheng chief Kawl Ul tried his utmost to dissuade the Southern column from advancing towards the Tashon capital, Fahlam. Again, when the southern column approaching Fahlam, Tashons leader’s Pu Con Bik and Pu Mang Hlur warned the column not to cross the area. The southern column advanced and camped at a place called Ngalzawl. Ngalzawl is midway between current Tashon village and Zamual village. The 1,622 strong Fort White Column led by Colonel Skene marched from Fort White – Bualkhua – Lati and camped at Parte village. At 8 a.m. on the morning of the 11 March 1890 signalling communication was established between the southern column and Fort White column. In order to let the Tashons know about the arrival of the British columns, the Fort White column fired three blank rounds from the gun, whilst three large dynamite cartridges were exploded by the Southern column. In the afternoon of the 11 March 1890, the Tashons leaders including Pu Con Bik, Pu Mang Hlur, Pu Kha Lian, Pu Bawi Hmung, Pu Vum Ceu and a minor official called Shin Lay and General Symons met at Ngalzawl and Gen. Symons read out the terms which had already been sent to the Tashons by Major Raikes. To the British intense surprise, the Tashon leaders firmly and politely declined to acknowledge the supremacy of the British Government. General Symons then gave a stern warning to carefully consider their final answer, which was to be given within two days. Surgeon Lt.Col. A.S. Reid remarked as thus \"their decision and straightforward boldness in giving it, when their capital was at the mercy of the united columns of the British troops, whom they had permitted and assisted to march on it, was a remarkable\".\n\nThe Fahlam Council managed to raise 3,000 Chin warriors to counterattack the invading British forces and gathered at Fahlam. The warriors were from all corners of Chin Hills and full of armed and prepared for the battle. Among the warriors was the Tashon Chiefs dressed in the gaudy tartan of the tribe, well-armed with bright guns, vermilion and black parti-coloured sword scabbards, and beautifully inlaid powder-horns. The Hualngo were conspicuous by their chignons, which contrasted with the lofty headdress of their neighbours, the Kamhau, who were present carrying the strange \"Shendu\" chopper-shaped sword in basketwork scabbards. The Sizangs, Khuangli, Tawyan, Minledaung and Sukte warriors were also present. The congregation was armed with a variety of weapons such as spears and flint-lock guns, bows and quivers of barbed arrows. The Tashons built fortifications along the Manipur River to intercept the northern column. The line of fortifications commenced on the river bank, the first stockade commanding the Lumbang stream. All fords in the river were commanded by sangars built with boulders and rocks, some of which exceeded 100 yards in length. From the river to Fahlam village the road passed through innumerable stockades, rifle-pits, and saagars which had been constructed with enormous labour. The Chin calculated that it was better to face the invaders halfway at Falam to deny further advance to the inner hills. Some must have taken the opportunity to be there to satisfy their curiosity about Fahlam, the centre of power at that time. The Fahlam could have asked help from all nooks and corners. It must have been an honour for some to have come to the side of Tashons in time of need. For some it could have been an obligation. Whatever the reason, 3000 Chins of various tribes under the leadership of Pu Con Bik stood against the invading enemy. The gathering for war was a show of loyalty to each other, the recognized virtue of Chins. Most importantly of all it was a reunion of separated brethrens in time of danger to fight side by side against a foreign enemy. \nSeeing the mass number of warriors, the British political officers remarked as thus; \"Doubtless it was the presence of this large force drawn from so many tribes and from the very borders of the Lushai country that Position of the induced the Tashon Chiefs to show a bold front, fully believing that with our small force we should be alarmed at the display of the Chin strength. The Chiefs when they informed General Symons that they would not pay tribute were quite sincere and intended to fight rather than pay, though they preferred to gain their end without fighting if possible. It must be remembered that the Tashons held a unique position in Chinland at this time. Ail the tribes from Manipur to Haka and from Burma to Lushai owed them nominal allegiance and the Tashons, realized that their prestige would be gone and the name of Falam lowered in the eyes of Chinland if they in common with the petty clans had to pay tribute and acknowledge the supremacy of the white men\". Wooden stockades, blocking in reverse and in all directions the path of approach to the Fahlam from the north. Every point of vantage was protected with crow’s nest and masked stockade.\n\nGeneral Symons pressed to the Tashons leaders to decide on whether to accept the terms imposed by the British. The Tashons knew their situation best, while keeping the 3,000 warriors at Fahlam in line ready for combat they counselled patience and applied their tested tactics of negotiations in accordance with the changing events as dictated by the British. They refused to accept the terms of the British to pay a fine of ten thousand rupees, ten elephants tusk and ten silk sheets. The Tashons leaders said plainly that they would not pay annual tribute, nor were they sure whether they would pay the fine, or any portion of it. They had not used money and they had not got the money they asked. They would not be able to get the silks as the British prevented them from trading with Kalay valley so they could not get any. A great tension developed and the shadow of fighting loomed large. To convince the Chin war party the British troops at that juncture with primitive weapons amounted to self-annihilation. They decided to disperse but to resist the invaders at advantageous ground as the enemy advanced. The Chin defended their villages as much as they could. They harassed the British troops on the way. They did not give up easily. Only when the British resorted to destroying hidden stored grains and cutting up standing corps in the cultivation fields did the Chins started to negotiate for peaceful settlement. To come to Fahlam to face the enemy and to have come to a consensus resolution to disperse for the time being to gain far better fighting grounds and time to defend the land reflected the true spirit of nationalism.\n\nAt 1pm on 13 March 1890, the four leaders of Tashons including Pu Bawi Hmung and Pu Vum Ceu and some 20 men, the leaders of the war party, were in discussion with General Symons, General Commanding Officer Mr. Ross and Mr. B.S. Carey (political officer with the northern column). The Tashons leaders having doubtful to the result of the battle decide to accept the terms. The leaders said “We acknowledge that you have beaten us, that you are the conquerors, but as you are strong be merciful and reduce the fines which we can not pay, and the amount of tribute which we ask to be allowed to pay once in three years, we wish to accept your terms and be friends”. Eventually the reduced terms proposed by the Tahsons was accepted by Gen Symons as “\"General Symons did not wish to be too severe on a tribe which acknowledged itself defeated\"”. The tribute was to be 5050 rupees annually. The Tashons did not lose their prestige nor their position in Chin Hills as the terms was to only pay annual tribute to the British government. After the Tashon had agreed to pay tributes to the British, General Symons returned to Hakha and also the Northern column returned to Fort White. The Tashon leaders agreed to send representative men with the northern column to try and get the Sizangs and Kamhau to surrender. The norther column started on its return march to Fort White on the 15th March, taking two Tashons leaders with them. The Sizang and northern Chin also surrendered to the British on April 1890. However Tashon Chief Bawi Hmung and Khualsim Chief said that they would not give up Shwegyophyu prince nor way where he was, because they had sworn the oath of friendship with him. Shwegyophyu later returned to Burma and he was arrested, tried, and hanged in 1891.\n\nAlthough, the Tashons accepted to give tributes to the British government in March 1890, the British did not rule the Tashons territory directly. The Tashons kept their power, prestige and continue to collect tributes from vassal tribes as before. The Tashons indirectly continued to oppose the British force. They themselves did not confront the British directly, however, they instigated the Chin people from the north and south to rebel against the British. Rebelling against the British force grew in 1891 and the British made Tashons accountable for every incident. To punish the Tashons for insurgents, the British troops then marched to the Tashons capital Fahlam in March 1891.\n\nOn 10 March 1891, the column consisted of 3 guns No. 3 Mountain Battery under Lieutenant O'Leary, 150 rifles, 3-4th Gurkhas under Captain Carnegy, 150 rifles, 30th Garhwal Rifles under Lieutenant Evatt, 35 rifles, 4th Madras Pioneers under Captain Stevens and 300 rifles and two guns under the command of Colonel Mainwaring accompanied by Mr. Ross and Lieutenant Macnabb, Political Officers, marched from Haka to Fahlam. They arrived at Ngalzawl on the 13 March. As in 1890, the northern column also marched to Fahlam from Fort White and camped at Parte. The Tashons also gathered a large force around their capital Fahlam and both the British columns were very closely monitored by the Chin warriors.\n\nOn the 14 March 1891, a durbar was held at Ngalzawl and Captain Rundall (the Political Officer with the Fort White column), Mr. Ross and the Tashons chiefs were present at the durbar. The Tashons paid 5 mithun as tributes to the British. The question of the tribal responsibility of the Tashons for the Gungal, who had committed the murders on the Fort White-Kale road, was discussed. It was decided that the Tashons would deliver up the offenders, who were reported to have fled into the Lushai country, should they at any time return to their territory, and agree to pay a fine and be responsible for their future good behaviour. For that incident, the British political officers set fine at four mithun and two guns. The British columns wanted to enter the capital Fahlam, however, the Tashons chiefs objected, consequently, the troops did not march through Fahlam and returned to their respective bases i.e. Hakha and Fort White.\n\nAfter the expedition of March 1891, the Tashons promised the British of good behaviours, however, Throughout 1891, the Chin people continued to rebel against the British. The British had it enough and prepared to rule the Tashons directly and put Chin Hills under their firm control. For this, they prepared the final expedition to the capital. In March 1892, the British force then prepared another expedition to the capital with two columns as in 1890 and 1891 expeditions. The political officer of Chin Hills Mr. B.S. Carey writes about the needs for the British to keep under their direct rule as thus: “\"Throughout Chin Hills, Tashons were regarded as powerful rivals to ourselves, it was therefore necessary to bring this tribe under our control, so that our authority in the country might be universal and paramount. The Tashons had, however, never shown any active hostility towards us, and instructions were therefore issued to the effect that, while promptly suppressing any resistance that might be met with, every effort was to be used to carry out the programme peaceably and to avoid recourse to military force. As the Tashons and their tributaries were supposed to be able to muster 10,000 fighting men, two columns were told off for the expedition\"”. The two columns consisted of the followings: \nThe column from Hakha was originally to have started in February 1892, however, they could only marched on 10 March 1892. For some time before the column started marching, the British sent spies and reported that the Tashons also prepare for war. Military intelligence from the Fort White column also reported the warlike intentions of the Tashons. At this points the Tashons tried to persuade the Hakha in the south and the Sizangs and Sukte in the north to bring about a general uprising, but failed to win over those tribes. Failing in the general uprising attempt, the Tashon Chiefs met with the Lt. Macnabb from the Hakha column at Mangkheng. Lt. Macnabb pointed out to the Tashons that resisting such the British columns will be catastrophic for the Tashons. The Hakha column arrived at Ngalzawl on 13 March 1892 and the northern column also arrived at Parte on 13 March 1892. The Tashons chiefs were told that for the first time in their history that the British intended to occupy their proud capital Fahlam. The Tashons strongly objected. The Tashons thought that the British would camp at Ngalzawl for a few days and left as they had done in the previous two expeditions. However, the British troops marched towards Fahlam but the Tashons offered no resistance and the village was peacefully occupied by the British force.\n\nOn 14 March reinforcement from the Gungal column also marched to Fahlam, having camped the previous night 2 miles below the village. Mr. Carey then joined Lieutenant Macnabb and the Falam Chiefs were summoned to talk over affairs. The Tashon chiefs were informed that their village had been occupied as an imposition of punishment for their breach of faith, in attempting to instigate a general uprising against the British force and the British intend to establish a permanent post at Fahlam. The Tashons were forbidden in future to levy tribute from the Kamhau, Sizangs or Sakhiling. So long as the Chiefs were obedient and loyal their rights and privileges would be maintained and their authority assured both over the Tashons and over their tributaries. The Chiefs were warned that any tributary tribes who offered resistance when visited by our officers would be removed from their control and administered direct. The Government also reserved the right of taking over the direct administration of any tributaries who were un- willing to remain subject to the Tashon Chiefs or whom they were unable to control. Then, the British occupied the village of Tashon (approximately one mile to the west of Fahlam). The following day on 14 March 1892, the British force marched in Tashons to show the might of the British force. \n\nThough, the Tashons chiefs were defeated they still objected the British force to establish a post at Fahlam. The British then tried to make their temporary post i.e. Tashon village permanent which was garrisoned by 400 Garhwal rifles under Major Browne, D.S.O., with a small detachment of Madras Sappers under Lieutenant Ainslie, R.E., Mr. Tuck in political charge. However, the Tashon village was condemned on medical grounds in April 1892. The British decided to build a new post from scratch at three miles north west of Fahlam. The Tashon village was condemned and materials were used to build their new post. The Tashons supplied thirty thousand collies for the construction of their new post which is the current city of Falam. The British decided to name their newly built post Fahlam after the Tashons capital in order to demonstrate that they have conquered the Tashons. The Tashons were forced to rename their capital “Tashons” after the name of their tribes. The British had problems to pronounce Fahlam, hence, they called and wrote it as “Falam”, omitting (h) aspirated sound. Since then, it has been called and known as Falam. Falam was the administration centre of Chin Hills during the colonial era. It was the headquarter of Chin Hills Battalion. It was the capital of Chin Hills. In 1948, Chin State joined the Union of Burma and gained independence from the British government. Since independence it was the capital of Chin State until 1965. Falam was founded on mid-1892 and it had just celebrated its 125th anniversary in February 2017.\n\nThe Tashons capital Fahlam became Tashon village since 1892. The village is still standing and is very popular with tourist nowadays. The Tashon village was named Chin Heritage Village in 2016 and holding heritage status in Chin State.\n\nList of ethnic groups in Myanmar\n"}
{"id": "13195483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13195483", "title": "The Morning After (book)", "text": "The Morning After (book)\n\nThe Morning After: Sex, Fear and Feminism on Campus is a 1993 book about date rape by author and journalist Katie Roiphe. Her first book, it was reprinted with a new introduction in 1994. Part of the book had previously been published as an essay, \"The Rape Crisis, or 'Is Dating Dangerous?'\" in the \"New York Times Magazine\".\n\nChristopher Lehmann-Haupt, writing for \"The New York Times\", called \"The Morning After\" a \"Book of the Times\" and said \"it is courageous of Ms. Roiphe to speak out against the herd ideas that campus life typically encourages.\" In 1993, a negative review by Katha Pollitt titled 'Not Just Bad Sex' was published in \"The New Yorker\". Pollitt's review was in turn criticized by Christina Hoff Sommers in \"Who Stole Feminism?\" (1994). \"The Morning After\" received a positive response from Camille Paglia, who called it \"an eloquent, thoughtful, finely argued book that was savaged from coast to coast by shallow, dishonest feminist book reviewers\". A criticism of the book is that it promotes victim-blaming.\n\n"}
{"id": "53393991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53393991", "title": "Thimilar", "text": "Thimilar\n\nThimilar (Tamil: திமிலர்) is a Sri Lankan Tamil caste found in the northern and eastern coastal areas of Sri Lanka, and globally among the Tamil diaspora. They are primarily engaged in shallow-water fishing. In Eastern Sri Lanka are they also involved in cattle cultivation.\n\nHistorically, they have also been known as \"Sindhu nāttar\" (people of Sindh), following their own myth origins. \n\nThe word Thimilar is derived from the word \"thimil\", a Tamil word for boat, and the honorific suffix -\"ar\", thus Thimilar is literally translated as \"Boatmen\". The Akanaṉūṟu of the Sangam literature, mentions \"Thimilan\", as a boat using fisherman. \n\nThe \"Vaiyapadal\" mentions the Sindhu Natar, a name of the Thimilar, as one of the communities inhabiting the Jaffna Peninsula. They are mentioned in the Mattakallappu Manmiyam as one of the fishing tribes living in the eastern part of Sri Lanka, who lost a battle to the Mukkuvar who were in alliance with the Pathans. Place names in the Batticaloa region are derived from the battle such as Sathurukondan (meaning \"were enemy was killed\", referring to the execution of the Thimilar chief) and Pathiyai-thookia-palai (where the Thimilar chieftess was hanged).\n\n"}
{"id": "41685926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41685926", "title": "Timeline of women in warfare and the military in the United States, 2000–2010", "text": "Timeline of women in warfare and the military in the United States, 2000–2010\n\nThis article lists events involving women in warfare and the military in the United States from 2000 until 2010. For 2011 onward, please see Timeline of women in warfare and the military in the United States from 2011–present.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22836048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22836048", "title": "Toronto Hunt Club", "text": "Toronto Hunt Club\n\nThe Toronto Hunt Club was established by British Army officers of the Toronto garrison (Fort York) in 1843. It held gymkhana equestrian events at various sites around the city. In 1895 it acquired its first permanent home in a rural area east of the city between Kingston Road and the waterfront. In 1898 the streetcar was extended eastward to the site, and soon the area became a cottage district and then streetcar suburb of Toronto. This forced the equestrian activities to move further afield. In 1907 the horses were thus moved to a site in Thornhill (Steeles' Corner at Steeles Avenue and Yonge Street).\n\nIn 1919 the club moved to a location closer to town at Eglinton Avenue and Avenue Road. Known as the Eglinton Hunt Club, a polo arena, clubhouses and other facilities were erected. The 1930s saw the club run into financial difficulties, however. In 1939, with the outbreak of the Second World War, the large site was purchased by the federal government and turned into a secret Royal Canadian Air Force research facility, the No. 1 Clinical Investigation Unit. Noted scientists Frederick Banting and Wilbur R. Franks were employed there, and it was at the CIU that Franks invented the anti gravity g-suit. The club was also home to RCAF No. 1 Initial Training School, a unit of the British Commonwealth Air Training Plan.\n\nAfter the war it became the RCAF Staff School, and remained an officer training facility of the Canadian Forces until closed in 1994. By 1998 the Government of Canada transferred the property to the Toronto Catholic District School Board and the Marshall McLuhan Catholic Secondary School was built there. The area surrounding the old Eglinton Hunt Club is now an established residential neighbourhood of Forest Hill.\n\nThe original Hunt Club site in Scarborough was turned into a nine-hole golf course in the 1930s, and it remains an exclusive private golfing club today.\n\n"}
{"id": "13954464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13954464", "title": "Trail commission", "text": "Trail commission\n\nTrail commission (TC) is paid by investment management companies to financial advisers, and is generally around 0.1% to 0.9% p.a. of the value invested by a client.\n\nIf an investment is made directly through a financial adviser, TC is generally kept by the adviser. However, some agencies (for example Commsec) return half of the TC to the client.\n\nA financial adviser should act purely in the investors' best interests. However, it is possible that the financial adviser may direct the investment towards funds that are most profitable in terms of TC. Supporters of the directing of investments into funds benefiting the financial adviser claim that it encourages the adviser to maintain the value of the portfolio, thus aligning their interests with those of their clients. Detractors suggest that investors are usually unaware of the practice and that it is ineffective as an incentive.\n\nFollowing the Retail Distribution Review in the United Kingdom, trail commission is banned on sales of new investment products as of April 6 2014 and will required to be completely phased out by April 6 2016. \n\n"}
{"id": "35233855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35233855", "title": "Waimajã language", "text": "Waimajã language\n\nWaimajã (Waimaha), generically known as Bará or (Northern) Barasano, is a Tucanoan language of Colombia and Brazil. As of 1971, the population of speakers generally lived along the rivers of Columbia, namely, Colorado, Yapu, Inambu, Macucu, and Tiquie.\n"}
{"id": "33063343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33063343", "title": "Women in Madagascar", "text": "Women in Madagascar\n\nWomen in Madagascar, also known as Malagasy women or Malgache women, generally live longer than men, whom they outnumber. Marrying young, they are traditionally subservient to their husbands. Roughly a third have their first child before the age of 19, and those who wish to delay having children may not have access to contraceptives. Abortion is common, with an estimated 24 percent of women having had one. Although they are constitutionally equal to men, they have unequal property rights and employment opportunities in certain areas.\n\nMalagasy women have a higher life expectancy than men, with an average of 61.3 years compared to 57.7 for men in 2010. There are more women than men; women represent 50.3 percent of the country's 2010 population of 19,669,953.\n\nAnemia is prevalent in Malagasy women, with 36 percent suffering from it in some form, mostly mild. The prevalence has decreased in recent years. The prevalence of HIV/AIDS in Madagascar is lower than the average for Africa, with the national rate estimated at 1 percent. Pregnant women had low rates. However, the rates of other sexually transmitted diseases, especially syphilis, are high.\n\nMalagasy law requires women to be 14 years of age before they are married, lower than the minimum age for males. Before the age of 18, only parental consent is required for a woman to be married, while women over the age of 18 must give their own consent. According to the United Nations, of women between the ages 15 and 19, 34 percent had already been married. Polygamy is forbidden, although it still happens. The culture is traditionally patriarchal.\n\nAlthough the total fertility rate in Madagascar is experiencing a decrease, the large number of women of child-bearing age has ensured that population momentum will cause the total number of births to increase. This effect is expected to have subsided within 30 years. Approximately a third of Malagasy women under the age 19 have already had at least one child, and most breastfeed, with 51 percent breastfeeding exclusively for six months.\n\nAlthough Malagasy women have increasingly begun to use contraceptives, both oral and injected, those used are not enough; only 1.5 percent of women use implanted contraceptives. The abortion rate is estimated at 1 in 10, with 24 percent of women having undergone an abortion. Fifteen percent of married women wishing to use contraceptives have no access to family planning initiatives. In the majority of cases a woman's husband entirely or partially decides what actions should be taken. There is a minority opinion (held by 9 percent of women and 8 percent of men) that a husband may beat his wife if she refuses sex.\n\nThe effect of education has been seen in Madagascar's infant mortality rate. According to Maryanne Sharp and Ioana Kruse of the World Bank note that mothers who have finished their secondary education experience fewer than forty to fifty percent of the infant deaths experienced by women with less education. Younger women are also less likely to have babies who die while young. The average perinatal mortality rate has decreased since 2003.\n\nThe maternal death figure for Madagascar is lower than average in Sub-Saharan Africa, at a total of 498 deaths per 100,000 live births. This death rate remained stable between 2000 and 2009. This figure has been influenced by numerous factors. Although 86 percent receive pre-natal checkups, 49 percent of them are not told if there are complications. Approximately 46 percent of new mothers receive fewer than four post-natal care sessions. Most women give birth outside of health centres, and the number of those who had assistance in giving birth is decreasing; according to Sharp and Kruse, 35 percent of Malagasy women who give birth outside of health centres do not receive medical care. Abortions due to unwanted pregnancies are also a major contributor.\n\nRich and middle-class Malagasy women spend much time cooking, and may work in cassava, rice, and maize production. Poorer women often work in rice production together with male family members, although they most commonly work with dry-field crops. Outside of the harvesting season, they may produce and sell other items to earn income for their families.\n\nMalagasy women participate in sharecropping. Some, including divorced, land-owning women without adequate male support, contract out the labour to relatives or other members of the community, while others may work sharecropped lands with their husbands. However, female sharecroppers are rarely counted separately from their husbands.\n\nDiscrimination based on gender is forbidden by the Constitution of Madagascar. However, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) notes that there are still reports of discrimination in inheritance law. The OECD has rated the degree of gender discrimination as medium on the Social Institutions and Gender Index.\n\nWomen legally have equal ownership rights, although in locations along the east coast of Madagascar they may be unable to own land. They are allowed to own their own businesses and do not require permission from their husband to acquire land. Their civil liberties are generally well-respected. However, in cases of spousal abuse, women must report the crime themselves in order for the police to act. Although calling the police is rare, women also have a traditional right known as \"misintaka\" that allows them to leave their husbands and live with their families.\n\nThere is a perception that women in Madagascar should focus on cooking, with farming handled by the men. As such, poorer Malagasy women are not allowed to assist in the farming on other people's land.\n\nIn a divorce, Malagasy women traditionally receive a third of the property acquired during their marriage, with their husband receiving the remaining two-thirds; they may also choose to keep their property separate during marriage. When the husband dies, a Malagasy widow who has borne a child receives half of the joint property. However, if the couple was childless then the husband's family received most of the inheritance.\n\n"}
