{"id": "31297671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31297671", "title": "1994 British Army Lynx shootdown", "text": "1994 British Army Lynx shootdown\n\nOn 20 March 1994, a British Army Lynx helicopter was shot down by the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) in Northern Ireland. A unit of the IRA's South Armagh Brigade fired an improvised mortar at the British Army base in Crossmaglen, County Armagh. The mortar round hit and shot down the helicopter, serial number ZD275, while it was hovering over the helipad. Three British soldiers and a Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) member were wounded.\n\nSince the 1970s, the IRA developed a series of home-made mortars. The goal was to produce devices to be used as \"stand-off\" weapons, capable of being launched from safe ranges upon police or military outposts and easy to conceal on dead-ground. The different designs evolved in 1992 into the Mark 15 mortar, widely known as the \"barrack buster\". The mortar shell consisted of a one metre long metal propane cylinder with a diameter of 36 cm that contained around 70 kg of home-made explosives and with a range between 75 and 275 m. The cylinder was an adaptation of a commercial 'Kosangas' gas cylinder for heating and cooking gas used in rural areas in Ireland. The first use of the \"barrack buster\" took place on 7 December 1992 against a joint RUC/British Army base in Ballygawley, County Tyrone.\n\nOn the evening of 20 March 1994, a Lynx helicopter, serial number ZD275, was in the process of landing at the large British Army base at Crossmaglen. Meanwhile, an IRA unit had mounted a Mark 15 mortar on a tractor, concealed behind bales of hay. The tractor was parked 150 yards from the intended target, on waste ground. At 20:27, there was a sudden blackout across Crossmaglen's square and at the same time, a single mortar shell was lobbed into the barracks. The IRA had used the mains for the collapsing circuit of the firing pack, turning off the street's power supply and allowing the mortar's own battery to trigger the launcher. When the Lynx was hovering 100 feet over the helipad, the mortar round hit the aircraft on the tail's boom, which was severed from the fuselage. The machine spun out of control, but the pilot was able to crash-land the Lynx inside the base. A Grenadier Guards' patrol spotted a huge orange fireball from a mile away. Three members of the crew managed to get out with minor injuries, but a member of the Royal Ulster Constabulary was trapped inside the blazing wreckage. The constable was rescued just before the fuel tanks and the ammunition started to explode.\n\nAuthor Toby Harnden described the incident as the most successful IRA operation against a helicopter in the course of the Troubles.\n\nAfter the incident, the IRA and Sinn Féin were criticised by the Social Democratic and Labour Party Member of the Parliament for the area Seamus Mallon, who said:\n\nCorporal Robert Tomlinson of the Royal Military Police was awarded the Queen's Commendation for Valuable Service for his part in coming to the aid of the wounded constable and organising his casevac.\n\nCorporal Wayne Cuckson of the Royal Logistic Corps was awarded the Queen's Gallantry Medal for dragging the wounded constable out of the crashed aircraft. Cuckson, who reached the rank of Warrant Officer Class Two, died on 6 April 2011 in a crash while driving his motorcycle between Abingdon and Oxford.\n\nThere was a second mortar attack on a British military helicopter on 12 July 1994, at Newtownhamilton, when an RAF Puma carrying 12 soldiers crash-landed on a soccer pitch after being hit on its tail by another Mark 15 mortar launched from a tractor. The helicopter was lifting off from the local military base. No serious injuries were reported. The Puma sustained Category 3 or Category 4 damage on the RAF scale. After returning to service, the machine was definitively written off and scrapped after suffering another crash-landing in Germany on 15 February 1997.\n\nThe downing of two helicopters by mortar fire, along with the increasing sniper activity of the IRA, was both a morale and military blow to the British forces in south County Armagh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19010344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19010344", "title": "Alf Collett", "text": "Alf Collett\n\nAlf Collett (8 August 1844-12 June 1919) was a Norwegian writer and historian. \n\nAlf Collett was born at Eidsvoll in Akershus, Norway. He attended Oslo Cathedral School. He was the second son of professor Peter Jonas Collett (1813-1851) and Camilla Collett (1813-1895). His maternal uncles included Oscar and Henrik Wergeland, and his paternal uncles included Peter Severin Steenstrup. He had one older brother Robert, a notable zoologist, and two younger brothers. He married Mathilda Sophie Kallevig (1845-1915), but they did not have any children.\n\nHe published many historical and genealogical works, the most important being \"En gammel Christiania-slægt. Optegnelser om familien Collett og Christianias fortid\" (1883) and \"Gamle Christiania-Billeder\" (1893).\n\n[[Category:People from Eidsvoll \n[[Category:People educated at Oslo Cathedral School]]\n[[Category:Norwegian historians]]\n[[Category:Norwegian genealogists]] \n[[Category:Norwegian non-fiction writers]]\n[[Category:Collett family (Norway)]]\n[[Category:Norwegian people of English descent]]\n"}
{"id": "3743313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3743313", "title": "Andreas Agnellus", "text": "Andreas Agnellus\n\nAndreas Agnellus of Ravenna (c. 805 – after 846) was a historian of the bishops in his city. The date of his death is not recorded, although his history mentions the death of archbishop George of Ravenna in 846; Oswald Holder-Egger cites a papyrus charter dated to either 854 or 869 that contains the name of a priest named Andreas of the Church of Ravenna, but there is no evidence to connect him with Andreas Agnellus.\n\nThough called Abbot, first of St. Mary ad Blachernas, and, later, of St. Bartholomew, Andreas appears to have remained a secular priest, being probably only titular abbot of each abbey. He is best known as the author of the \"Liber Pontificalis Ecclesiae Ravennatis\" (LPR), an account of the occupants of his native church, compiled on the model of the \"Liber Pontificalis\", a compilation of the lives of the Popes of Rome. The work survives in two manuscripts: one in the Biblioteca Estense in Modena, written in 1413; the other is in the Vatican Library, written in the mid-16th century and breaks off in the middle of the life of Archbishop Peter II. Copies of Agnellus's lives of two saintly bishops of Ravenna, Severus and Peter Chrysologus exist in independent traditions, copied into collections of saints lives. \n\nThe \"editio princeps\" of the LPR was published in Modena by Benedetto Bacchini in 1708; a complete English translation of the LPR by Deborah Mauskopf Deliyannis was published in 2004. The LPR begins with Saint Apollinaris and ends with Georgius, the forty-eighth archbishop (died 846). Though the work contains \"unreliable material\" according to the article on Agnellus in the \"Catholic Encyclopedia\", Thomas Shahan (the author of the article) states that the LPR is \"a unique and rich source of information concerning the buildings, inscriptions, manners, and religious customs of Ravenna in the ninth century\". Deliyannis notes that \"two themes recur throughout the LPR: an anxiety for the rights of the clergy in the face of oppression by bishops, and a firm preference for the autocephaly of Ravenna, with a particular dislike of control of [the archbishopric of] Ravenna by the Roman pope\". The \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" further comments that \"in his efforts to be erudite he often falls into unpardonable errors. The diction is barbarous, and the text is faulty and corrupt\".\n\nAttribution\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35624944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35624944", "title": "Aron Freimann", "text": "Aron Freimann\n\nAron Freimann (5 August 1871 at Filehne, Posen – 6 June 1948 at New York City) was a German librarian and historian. He was the son of Israel Meïr Freimann, and grandson, on his mother's side, of the chief rabbi of Altona, Jacob Ettlinger. He attended the Royal Gymnasium of Ostrowo (his father was the town's Jewish congregation rabbi) and in 1893 entered the University of Berlin (Ph. D., 1896), where he studied history and Oriental languages, devoting himself at the same time to the study of archival and library systems. Parallelly he took courses at the Rabbinical Seminary at Berlin.\n\nFrom 1897 he was chief of the Hebrew department at the Stadtbibliotek Frankfurt, and under his direction the library in Frankfurt upon Main assembled one of the richest collections of Judaica and Hebraica in the world. He retired in 1933 when the Nazis came to power and immigrated to the United States in 1938. Between 1939 and 1945 he served as consultant in bibliography to the New York Public Library.\n\nSince 1900 he was one of the editors of \"Zeitschrift für Hebräische Bibliographie.\" He was the author of \"Die Isagoge des Porphyrius in den Syrischen Uebersetzungen\" (1896), and \"Geschichte der Israelitischen Gemeinde Ostrowo\" (1896). To the \"Ḳobeẓ al-Yad,\" a collective work published by the \"Mekize Nirdamim\" Society, he contributed articles on the history of the Jews in Prague.\n\n"}
{"id": "2207101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2207101", "title": "Bruno the Saxon", "text": "Bruno the Saxon\n\nBruno the Saxon (Latin: \"Bruno Saxonicus\", also known as Bruno of Merseburg (German: \"Brun von Merseburg\") and Bruno of Magdeburg) was a German chronicler of the eleventh century and author of the \"Historia de Bello Saxonico\" or History of the Saxon Wars. \n\nLittle is known of his life. Bruno was probably from an aristocratic background. He was a Saxon monk belonging to the household of Archbishop Werner, of Magdeburg, who was a vigorous opponent of Henry IV and one of the leaders of the Saxon uprising against the emperor. After the death of the archbishop in 1078 at the hands of peasants, Bruno attached himself to Werner of Wolkenburg, Prince-Bishop of Merseburg, to whom, in 1082, he dedicated the work, \"De Bello Saxonico\" by which he is chiefly known. As its name indicates, it is a record of the struggles of the Saxons with the Emperor Henry IV. The author begins with an account of the youth of Henry and the evil influence exerted over him by Archbishop Adalbert of Hamburg-Bremen after he had passed from the stern tutelage of Anno II, Archbishop of Cologne. He then traces the relations of the emperor with the Saxons and narrates at length the causes and events of the Saxon Rebellion, ending with the election of Hermann of Luxemburg as king in 1081.\n\nBruno sought to justify the rebellion of the Saxons and the election of the first anti-king, Rudolf, and to show how by his oppressive government King Henry had forfeited any right to rule, both for himself and his dynasty. Bruno also devoted considerable attention to Henry’s dispute with Pope Gregory VII, ten of whose letters he reproduced in his history. But while supporting the pope against the king, he made clear, both in his own words and through letters which he copied, that the German rebels were deeply disappointed by the Gregory’s absolution of Henry at Canossa in December 1076, and his attempt to remain neutral after the more intransigent rebels had elected a rival king at Forchheim in March 1077. Bruno was at pains to stress that this election was conducted with the full knowledge and involvement of a papal legate, and indeed followed the standards of probity laid down by canon law. Hence there could be no doubt about its validity.\nBruno described the dissatisfaction of the Saxons to the actions of Gregory VII. The German rebels reproached Gregory VII for not supporting the anti-king Rudolf. The letters to which they refer, which Bruno reproduced in full, were those sent by Gregory in the summer of 1077 to his legates, and to the clergy and people of Germany, setting out the terms by which a judgement might be made between the respective claims of Henry and Rudolf to be the rightful king.\n\nThere has been a difference of opinion regarding the historical value of Bruno's work. It was written during the contentions between Henry and Pope Gregory VII, and the author has been classed with those partisans who, either through ignorance or malice, endeavoured to lower Henry in the esteem of his subjects. Bruno indeed supported the pope's cause, and his Saxon sympathies manifest themselves at times in his writings, but of his sincerity and his expressed purpose to narrate the truth there can be no doubt. He made the most of his sources of information and, in spite of occasional omissions, gives a vivid picture of the times from the point of view of an interested contemporary. The letters of Saxon bishops and other original documents which he includes in his history give an added value to the work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20308010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20308010", "title": "Cambrian Archaeological Association", "text": "Cambrian Archaeological Association\n\nThe Cambrian Archaeological Association () was founded in 1846 to examine, preserve and illustrate the ancient monuments and remains of the history, language, manners, customs, arts and industries of Wales and the Welsh Marches and to educate the public in such matters. The association's activities include sponsoring lectures, field visits, and study tours; as well as publishing its journal, \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\", and monographs. It also provides grants to support research and publications.\n\nThe association holds two meetings each year, a week in mid-summer and an autumn weekend, visiting sites and monuments in all parts of Wales and, on occasions, in England, Scotland, Ireland and abroad. Easter conferences with lectures on matters of current concern in history and archaeology are held on a bi-annual basis. It arranges a lecture in the Welsh language each year at the National Eisteddfod.\n\nResearch grants are awarded annually and are normally in the region of £500-£2000. In 2012 an award was made to Dr Toby Driver and Dr Jeffrey Davies for post-excavation work on their excavations at the Abermagwr Roman villa, Ceredigion. The Blodwen Jerman Schools Prize is awarded annually to a Welsh school for their promotion of Archaeology and History within the School. An Undergraduate Essay Prize is also awarded by the association. The G. T. Clark Prizes are awarded every five years for the most distinguished published contributions to the study of the archaeology and history of Wales and The Marches. There are five categories: Prehistory, Roman, Early Medieval, Medieval and Post-Medieval.\n\nApart from the journal \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\", the association has a long tradition of publishing supplementary volumes on Welsh History and Archaeology. A most ambitious project was the publication in 1888 of a facsimile edition of Thomas Dineley's \"Progress of...Henry ..Duke of Beaufort (Lord President of the council in Wales and Lord Warden of the Marches) Thorough Wales in 1684\" More recently the association has published between 1978 and 1998, in conjunction with Cadw, an important series of monographs on excavations in Wales. In 2013 it published a Festschrift, \"Reflections on the Past\", on the theme of British prehistory and archaeology, to mark the longstanding contribution made by the prehistorian Frances Lynch to the work of the association. Other important publications by the association include:\n\n\nThe Cambrian Archaeological Society was founded at a time when a sense of Welsh national identity was increasingly asserting itself. It was also at the moment that the dominance of the Antiquarian and Welsh learned societies centred in London were on the wane. There were two earlier learned Welsh Cultural societies in London; the Cymmrodorion founded in 1751 and the \"Cymreigyddion\" (who conducted all their business in the Welsh language) founded in 1770. The Cymmrodorion had ceased to meet in 1843, although it was re-established in 1873, while the \"Cymreigyddion\" disappeared completely in the 1850s. The premier English antiquarian society, the Society of Antiquaries of London, which had received its Royal Charter in 1745, was also in an impoverished state, having virtually bankrupted itself as the result of publishing ventures. In Scotland the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland had been established in Edinburgh in 1780, while in Ireland the Royal Irish Academy, established in 1786, had its own Antiquities Section, and in 1890 the Royal Society of Antiquaries of Ireland had been formed from the Kilkenny Archaeological Society. Against this background the British Archaeological Association was founded in 1844, and was followed rapidly by a breakaway group, the Royal Archaeological Institute, which pioneered a model of holding annual meetings or congresses in various parts of the British Isles and producing an annual journal (published in quarterly parts). This was the model adopted by Cambrian Archaeological Association for Wales and the Marches.\n\nThe driving figure in the establishment of the Cambrian Archaeological Association was the Rev. Harry Longueville Jones who was supported by the celticist the Rev John Williams. Rather than form a society directly, Longueville Jones produced a 'manifesto' -\"On the study and preservation of national antiquities\"- calling on interested people to join together and form an association. Longueville Jones at this date was living at Beaumaris in Anglesey. Between 1834 and 1842 he lived in Paris, where he worked for the English language publisher Galignani and edited several editions of Galignani's Paris Guide. He worked with leading literary figures including William Thackeray. The ideas he put forward owed much to current developments in France, which followed the appointment in 1834 of the French novelist Prosper Mérimée as the first Inspector-General of \"Monuments Historiques\". Longueville was also a talented artist and his work was used to illustrate early volumes of \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\".\n\nThe first annual meeting of the Cambrian Archaeological Society was held at Aberystwyth between 7 and 10 September 1847, and the first president was Sir Stephen Richard Glynne. By the time of the second annual meeting at Caernarvon it was claimed that the membership had grown to 350. Initially the association was well supported by members of the Welsh Manuscripts Society. In 1849 Harry Longueville Jones resigned as joint general secretary on his appointment to the Civil Service position in the Privy Council office as Inspector for National Schools in Wales. This appointment was a result of the uproar that had been created by the publication of the 1847 Welsh Blue Book on Education. Jones remained a very active member of the association and resumed as editor of \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\" in 1855. He was succeeded as joint general secretary by the Rev Basil Jones, later to become Bishop of St David's.\n\nMany scholars and academics were involved in the work of the association at this time. These included G. T. Clark, the manager of Dowlais Ironworks for Lady Charlotte Guest, who was to become a leading authority on British Castles. Clark's first article to be published in \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\" in 1853 was on Kidwelly Castle. It was accompanied by plans and drawings by a Mrs Trehearne engraved by John Henry le Keux. Another figure was the youthful Edward Augustus Freeman, later celebrated as a medieval historian, and, from 1884, Regius Professor of Modern History at Oxford. Freeman submitted a series of articles on church architecture in Wales and on the domestic architecture of Pembrokeshire. Also in this group was John Obadiah Westwood, a notable Oxford entomologist, whose studies of inscribed and sculptured stones of the post Roman period was to provide a systematic approach to the subject. The Cambrian Archaeological Association was to sponsor the publication of Westwood's \"Lapidarium Walliæ: the early Inscribed and Sculptured Stones of Wales\" in 1876–1879. A final key figure was Rev Charles Cardale Babington, who came from Ludlow in Shropshire. Professor of Botany at Cambridge, he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1851. Babington was also interested in archaeology, and joined the General Committee of the association in 1855: he was to chair the committee until 1882.\n\nIn the 1850s a schism developed among the membership of the Cambrians. John Williams, who had been to Jesus College, Oxford, and whose sympathies lay with the Tractarians (or Oxford Movement), belonged to an older school of celticism, which wished to promote the authenticity of the writings of Iolo Morganwg. Williams did not fit in with the members of the association, whose primary interests were in Welsh architecture and archaeology. The association was also in a poor state financially as there had been a failure to collect subscriptions. Williams resigned as general secretary and Editor late in 1853 and he was followed by other joint secretary the Rev Basil Jones who resigned at the Summer Meeting at Ruthin. The published list of members now shows that membership had shrunk to 163. Williams, following his resignation created an alternative society, the Cambrian Institute, publishers of the \"Cambrian Journal\", which Williams edited until his death in 1863, when the Institute faded away.\n\nFollowing the Ruthin meeting active steps were made to re-establish the association, the objectives were redefined and a new constitution was adopted at the Welshpool Meeting of the association in 1856. For much of this period the General Committee of the association was under the capable chairmanship of Cardale Babington (from 1864–84) and the general secretary to the committee was the Rev E L Barnwell (from 1854–75). At this point the association became more involved in Archaeology, sponsoring through an appeal the Rev David Davies' (their local Secretary for Montgomeryshire) excavations on the Roman auxiliary fort at Caersws which was published in \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\" in 1857.\n\nLongueville Jones, who was travelling extensively in Wales as part of his duties as inspector of National Schools, now had more time as editor of \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\". He produced many articles and listings of archaeological sites, which furthered his campaign for the establishment of a Monuments Record and Inspectorate, and anticipated the formation of the Welsh Royal Commission in 1908. E L Barnwell also had a wide range of interests. Between 1855 and 1884 he contributed 102 articles and notes on a wide range of subjects to \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\". His main interests were Archaeology, Vernacular Architecture, Medieval History and Genealogy. His last article in \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\", \"On Some South Wales Cromlechs\", disputed some of the assertions in Ferguson's recently published \"Rude Stone Monuments of all Countries\" and provides an overview of Chambered Tombs in Wales. Other important publications were by Hon W O Stanley on his excavation of tumuli in Anglesey and one on Wigmore Abbey and Monastic Grange in Herefordshire by Edward Blore. Blore was a leading architect, who had been employed by Queen Victoria to re-build Buckingham Palace and he was an accomplished topographical artist specialising in later Medieval architecture. His drawings of Wigmore Grange were engraved by John le Keux and are some of the finest topographical prints published in \"Archaeologia Cambrensiis\".\n\nThe Cambrians also established a relationship with the \"Office of Woods and Forests\" who were responsible for Castles and other monuments belonging to the Crown in Wales. The Cambrians had already influenced Salvin's restoration of Caernarvon Castle and made a financial contribution towards it. They now inaugurated a scheme whereby the Office would lease Castles and other monuments to members of the association so that they could be preserved and restored. The Rev E L Barnwell, took up a lease of Denbigh Castle on behalf of the association. Slightly later the monastery of Strata Florida was leased by the association so that it could be safeguarded and displayed to the public.\n\nBy the early 1880s few of the original members or the association were still active. Cardale Babbington resigned as chairman of the General Committee in 1884, and was replaced by Archdeacon D R Thomas, who remained as chairman until 1916. New figures included John Rhys, who had become Professor of Celtic at Oxford in 1877. The emphasis changes slightly with more emphasis on Celtic studies and Alfred Neobard Palmer, who contributed articles on the local history of the Wrexham area and the medieval borough of Holt. The great Welsh historian, SirJ E Lloyd joined the association in 1896. The greatest impact was made by John Romilly Allen whose family came from Narbeth in Pembrokeshire. Romilly Allen joined the Cambrian Archaeological Association in 1875, was elected a member of the general committee in 1877, became one of two editors of its Journal in 1889, and was sole editor from 1892 until his death in 1907. Romilly Allen was to replace Westwood (who died in 1893) as the acknowledged expert on inscribed and sculptured stones of the post Roman period and his researches in Scotland are even better known than those he undertook in Wales. Romilly Allen campaigned for a Welsh National Museum and wrote scathing criticisms when antiquities were acquired by British Museum; the Grosvenor Museum in Chester purchased some Bronze Age Urns from North Wales and particularly when the Late Iron Age Trawsfynydd Tankard was removed to Liverpool Museum. It was fitting that the National Museum of Wales was granted its foundation charter in 1907, the year of Romilly Allen's death.\n\nRomilly Allen was also very adverse to what he perceived as other bodies interfering in Welsh matters. In 1886 the Cambrians launched an appeal to sponsor an excavation at Strata Florida. The Cistercian Abbey had been taken into 'guardianship' by the association and the intention was to provide a plan of the Abbey and to make it accessible for visitors. The excavation were placed in the hands of Stephen Williams and he started work in June 1887. The excavations did not find favour with J W Willis-Bund, who was the local secretary of the Society of Antiquaries for South Wales. Bund denigrated William's work, alleging 'the mischief likely to be done if the excavations were continued without the direction of some competent person'. This was not taken well by the association, but St John Hope, the Assistant Secretary of the Antiquaries gave advice and was able to mediate. Later, Romilly Allen, as editor of \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\", commented that \"the Cambrian Archaeological Association has always shown itself willing to receive advice courteously offered, but it can never admit the contention that the Society of Antiquaries has the right to send its officials to Wales to dictate how explorations should be conducted\".\n\nThe association was now becoming more adventurous as far its summer meetings and increasingly started to visit other 'Celtic' lands outside Wales and the Marches. The first of these visits was to Truro in 1862, followed by the Isle of Man in 1865. More ambitious was the visit to Brittany in 1889 and in 1891 Professor John Rees organised a trip to Kerry in Ireland. The most ambitious meeting was in 1899 when the association hired a steamer to voyage round the Western Isles of Scotland to visit remote sites and see sculptured stones. The social life on these yearly trips and meetings from 1908 onwards is well described in Evelyn Lewes' book \"Out with the Cambrians\", which was published in 1934\n\nFollowing the death in 1907 of Romilly Allen, the Rev Rupert Morris, originally from Holywell in Flintshire took over the editorship. Morris had joined the Cambrians in 1875 and in 1892 he had become Chaplain and Librarian to the Duke of Westminster at Eaton Hall near Chester. Morris immersed himself in the history of Chester, his most notable publication being \" Chester during the Plantagenet and Tudor Reigns \", published in 1894, and he also edited the Chester Archaeological Journal. He then moved to St Gabriel's, Pimlico, a large London parish in the Duke's patronage. It was from here that he edited \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\" until his death in 1917. With the onset of the First World War the association was able initially to keep up its publication programme, but then reduced the issues of \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\" to two each year. The summer meetings were abandoned, with a general meeting being called each year at Shrewsbury. Much of the organisation of the association was undertaken by the noted geologist and Palaeolithic archaeologist William Boyd Dawkins, who had been born at Buttington, near Welshpool. Boyd Dawkins, who was knighted in 1917, stood in as president of the association between 1914 and 1919.\n\nBy the mid-1920s the influence of the recently established National Museum of Wales starts to make its mark on the association. Mortimer Wheeler was appointed keeper of archaeology in 1922, and in 1924 he became director of the museum. He immediately started on notable excavations on the Roman sites of Segontium on the outskirts of Caernarvon and Brecon Gaer. These volumes were published in \"Y Cymmrodor\", an annual journal of the Society of Cymmrodorion rather than in \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\", presumably because the Cambrians would not devote a single volume to each excavation. \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\" was still being published quarterly in a quarto format, which could not be adapted for the publication of excavation reports with large plans. As a result, \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\" was changed to the larger quarto format in 1928. 'Mortimer Wheeler encouraged non-professional archaeologists, such as the Bangor Architect Harold Hughes and Dr Willoughby Gardner in their research on Hillforts of Northern Wales. This research had started in 1909 and in his presidential address to the Cambrians in 1924, Willougby Gardner gives an extensive review of this research, illustrated with plans. They were later to survey Ffridd Faldwyn, Montgomery near Montgomery. This work was to form the basis for the excavations that followed at Ffridd Faldwyn by St John O'Neill, the Office of Works Inspector in Wales. Also Sir Cyril Fox, who succeeded Wheeler as the Director of the National Museum of Wales, published his survey of Offa's Dyke in parts in \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\". It was afterwards republished as one volume by the British Academy in 1955.\n\nIn the War Years, from 1939 to 1945, the Cambrians were unable to hold any meetings, but volumes of \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\" continued to be produced. In 1946, to commemorate the centenary of the association, the volume for that year was entitled \"100 Years of Welsh Archaeology 1846–1956\", which was a masterful survey of the state of knowledge about Welsh Archaeology. In the 1940s the noted church architectural historian Fred Crossley, together with Maurice Ridgeway, started a detailed county by county survey of roods screens, lofts and carved woodwork in Welsh Churches.\n\nIn the early days of the Cambrian Archaeological Association the position of the president of the society went to a member of the landed gentry or aristocracy in Wales or the Welsh Marches, as well as to Welsh bishops and senior figures in the Anglican Church. The first president was Sir Stephen Glynne, the brother-in-law of William Gladstone, a passionate ecclesiologist, who was a guiding figure of the association for many years. The main intention of the residency was, and still to some extent is, to provide an entree for visits and the organisation of the summer general meeting. It is normal for the presidency to be held for one year, but on some occasions it has been held for longer. Nearly all the early presidents were either clerics in the Anglican Church or had at some time been Members of Parliament. It is very clear that the summer meetings were used as a forum (outside the formal events), for the discussion of matters not directly associated with archaeology or Welsh history. Most notably a number of the presidents were members of the Canterbury Society, an association for the colonisation of the South Island of New Zealand. Also many were directly involved in the railway companies which were opening up Wales at the time, most notably Earl Vane Tempest, later Lord Londonderry of Machynlleth, president in 1866, who was the chairman of the Cambrian Railways. This does not imply that the majority of the presidents were uninterested in archaeology. The Earl of Dunraven of Dunraven Castle in Glamorgan, president in 1849 and 1869, while not involved in Welsh archaeology, was a leading Irish intellectual and Celtic scholar, as well as a supporter of Catholic Emancipation. Many of the other presidents who were MPs were leading Antiquaries, particularly Octavius Morgan and Stanley Leighton – the latter was the founding figure of SPAB. Equally most of the bishops and churchmen, who were presidents, were leading academics. The scholarly Rev Basil Jones, the second secretary of the association, later became the president in 1878, after his elevation to the Bishopric of St David's.\n\nA change starts to appear in 1881, when Professor Charles Cardale Babington a botanist and archaeologist at Cambridge University, became president. Babington was also chairman of the General Committee of Association for many years. Babington was followed in 1891 by the noted celticist Prof John Rhys of Oxford, the Assyriologist Rev Prof A H Sayce, also of Oxford. In 1895 and 1896 the renowned legal historian and Lord Chancellor, Hardinge Giffard, 1st Earl of Halsbury served twice as president. The archaeologist and geologist Professor Sir William Boyd Dawkins, who was president for six years and successfully steered the association through the years of the First World War.\n\nAfter the First World War, further changes in the presidency are apparent. Leading archaeologists (Sir) Mortimer Wheeler (1930) and (Sir) Cyril Fox (1933); architects: Harold Hughes (1930) and W. D. Caröe (1936); historians and celticists Sir John Edward Lloyd(1937) and Prof R. A. S. Macalister (1932 and 1934), were amongst the presidents. Since the Second World War the presidents have been a mixture of leading academics, professional architects and archaeologists, the occasional Anglican cleric, and local historians, such as J. D. K. Lloyd of Montgomery, the editor of \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\" for many years. While women such as Angharad Llwyd had been allowed to join the Cambrians in their own right from an early date, it was not until 1988 that Frances Lynch became first female president. Since then there have been three further women presidents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50250", "title": "Canaan", "text": "Canaan\n\nCanaan (; Northwest Semitic: '; Phoenician: 𐤊𐤍𐤏𐤍 \"Kenā‘an\"; Hebrew: ') was a Semitic-speaking region in the Ancient Near East during the late 2nd millennium BC. The name \"Canaan\" appears throughout the Bible, where it corresponds to the Levant, in particular to the areas of the Southern Levant that provide the main setting of the narrative of the Bible: i.e., the area of Phoenicia, Philistia, Israel, and other nations.\n\nThe word Canaanites serves as an ethnic catch-all term covering various indigenous populations—both settled and nomadic-pastoral groups—throughout the regions of the southern Levant or Canaan. It is by far the most frequently used ethnic term in the Bible. In the Book of Joshua, Canaanites are included in a list of nations to exterminate, and later described as a group which the Israelites had annihilated, although this narrative is not accepted by contemporary scholarship. The name \"Canaanites\" ( \"kena‘anim,\" \"kena‘anī\") is attested, many centuries later, as the endonym of the people later known to the Ancient Greeks from c. 500 BC as Phoenicians, and following the emigration of Canaanite-speakers to Carthage (founded in the 9th century BC), was also used as a self-designation by the Punics (\"chanani\") of North Africa during Late Antiquity.\n\nCanaan had significant geopolitical importance in the Late Bronze Age Amarna period (14th century BC) as the area where the spheres of interest of the Egyptian, Hittite, Mitanni and Assyrian Empires converged. Much of modern knowledge about Canaan stems from archaeological excavation in this area at sites such as Tel Hazor, Tel Megiddo, and Gezer.\n\nThe English term \"Canaan\" (pronounced since c. 1500, due to the Great Vowel Shift) comes from the Hebrew (\"knʿn\"), via Greek \"Khanaan\" and Latin '. It appears as 𒆳𒆠𒈾𒄴𒈾 (\"ki-na-ah-na\") in the Amarna letters (14th century BC), and ' is found on coins from Phoenicia in the last half of the 1st millennium. It first occurs in Greek in the writings of Hecataeus as \"Khna\" (Χνᾶ). Scholars connect the name \"Canaan\" with ', \"Kana'an\", the general Northwest Semitic name for this region.\n\nThe etymology is uncertain. An early explanation derives the term from the Semitic root \"\" \"to be low, humble, subjugated\". Some scholars have suggested that this implies an original meaning of \"lowlands\", in contrast with Aram, which would then mean \"highlands\", whereas others have suggested it meant \"the subjugated\" as the name of Egypt's province in the Levant, and evolved into the proper name in a similar fashion to Provincia Nostra (the first Roman colony north of the Alps, which became Provence).\n\nAn alternative suggestion put forward by Ephraim Avigdor Speiser in 1936 derives the term from Hurrian \"Kinahhu\", purportedly referring to the colour purple, so that \"Canaan\" and \"Phoenicia\" would be synonyms (\"Land of Purple\"). Tablets found in the Hurrian city of Nuzi in the early 20th century appear to use the term \"Kinahnu\" as a synonym for red or purple dye, laboriously produced by the Kassite rulers of Babylon from murex shells as early as 1600 BC, and on the Mediterranean coast by the Phoenicians from a byproduct of glassmaking. Purple cloth became a renowned Canaanite export commodity which is mentioned in Exodus. The dyes may have been named after their place of origin. The name 'Phoenicia' is connected with the Greek word for \"purple\", apparently referring to the same product, but it is difficult to state with certainty whether the Greek word came from the name, or \"vice versa\". The purple cloth of Tyre in Phoenicia was well known far and wide and was associated by the Romans with nobility and royalty. However, according to Robert Drews, Speiser's proposal has generally been abandoned.\n\nCanaanite culture apparently developed \"in situ\" from the earlier Ghassulian chalcolithic culture, which pioneered the Mediterranean agricultural system typical of the Canaanite region, which comprised intensive subsistence horticulture, extensive grain growing, commercial wine and olive cultivation and transhumance pastoralism. Ghassulian itself developed from the Circum-Arabian Nomadic Pastoral Complex, which in turn developed from a fusion of their ancestral Natufian and Harifian cultures with Pre-Pottery Neolithic B (PPNB) farming cultures, practicing animal domestication, during the 6200 BC climatic crisis which led to the Agricultural Revolution/Neolithic Revolution in the Levant. The Late Bronze Age state of Ugarit (at Ras Shamra in Syria) is considered quintessentially Canaanite archaeologically, even though its Ugaritic language does not belong to the Canaanite language group proper.\n\nA disputed reference to \"Lord of ga-na-na\" in the Semitic Ebla tablets (dated 2350 BC) from the archive of Tell Mardikh has been interpreted by some scholars to mention the deity Dagon by the title \"Lord of Canaan\" If correct, this would suggest that Eblaites were conscious of Canaan as an entity by 2500 BC. Jonathan Tubb states that the term \"ga-na-na\" \"may provide a third-millennium reference to \"Canaanite\"\", while at the same time stating that the first certain reference is in the 18th century BC. See Ebla-Biblical controversy for further details.\n\nA letter from Mut-bisir to Shamshi-Adad I (c. 1809 – 1776 BC) of the Old Assyrian Empire (2025–1750 BC) has been translated: \"It is in Rahisum that the brigands (habbatum) and the Canaanites (Kinahnum) are situated\". It was found in 1973 in the ruins of Mari, an Assyrian outpost at that time in Syria. Additional unpublished references to Kinahnum in the Mari letters refer to the same episode. Whether the term Kinahnum refers to people from a specific region or rather people of \"foreign origin\" has been disputed, such that Robert Drews states that the \"first certain cuneiform reference\" to Canaan is found on the Alalakh statue of King Idrimi (below).\n\nAlalakh texts\n\nA reference to Ammiya being \"in the land of Canaan\" is found on the Statue of Idrimi (16th century BC) from Alalakh in modern Syria. After a popular uprising against his rule, Idrimi was forced into exile with his mother's relatives to seek refuge in \"the land of Canaan\", where he prepared for an eventual attack to recover his city. The other references in the Alalakh texts are:\n\nAmarna letters\nReferences to Canaanites are also found throughout the Amarna letters of Pharaoh Akhenaten c. 1350 BC. In these letters, some of which were sent by governors and princes of Canaan to their Egyptian overlord Akhenaten (Amenhotep IV) in the 14th century BC, are found, beside \"Amar\" and \"Amurru\" (Amorites), the two forms \"Kinahhi\" and \"Kinahni\", corresponding to \"Kena\" and \"Kena'an\" respectively, and including Syria in its widest extent, as Eduard Meyer has shown. The letters are written in the official and diplomatic East Semitic Akkadian language of Assyria and Babylonia, though \"Canaanitish\" words and idioms are also in evidence. The known references are:\n\nUgarit texts\n\nText RS 20.182 from Ugarit is a copy of a letter of the king of Ugarit to Ramesses II concerning money paid by \"the sons of the land of Ugarit\" to the \"foreman of the sons of the land of Canaan (\"*kn'ny\")\" According to Jonathan Tubb, this suggests that the Semitic people of Ugarit, contrary to much modern opinion, considered themselves to be non-Canaanite.\n\nThe other Ugarit reference, KTU 4.96, shows a list of traders assigned to royal estates, of which one of the estates had three Ugaritans, an Ashdadite, an Egyptian and a Canaanite.\n\nAshur tablets\n\nA Middle Assyrian letter during the reign of Shalmaneser I includes a reference to the \"travel to Canaan\" of an Assyrian official.\n\nHattusa letters\n\nFour references are known from Hattusa:\n\nDuring the 2nd millennium BC, Ancient Egyptian texts use the term \"Canaan\" to refer to an Egyptian-ruled colony, whose boundaries generally corroborate the definition of Canaan found in the Hebrew Bible, bounded to the west by the Mediterranean Sea, to the north in the vicinity of Hamath in Syria, to the east by the Jordan Valley, and to the south by a line extended from the Dead Sea to around Gaza. Nevertheless, the Egyptian and Hebrew uses of the term are not identical: the Egyptian texts also identify the coastal city of Qadesh in north west Syria near Turkey as part of the \"Land of Canaan\", so that the Egyptian usage seems to refer to the entire Levantine coast of the Mediterranean Sea, making it a synonym of another Egyptian term for this coastland, Retjenu.\n\nLebanon, in northern Canaan, bordered by the Litani river to the watershed of the Orontes River, was known by the Egyptians as upper Retjenu. In Egyptian campaign accounts, the term Djahi was used to refer to the watershed of the Jordan river. Many earlier Egyptian sources also mention numerous military campaigns conducted in \"Ka-na-na\", just inside Asia.\nArchaeological attestation of the name \"Canaan\" in Ancient Near Eastern sources relates almost exclusively to the period in which the region operated as a colony of the New Kingdom of Egypt (16th–11th centuries BC), with usage of the name almost disappearing following the Late Bronze Age collapse (c. 1206–1150 BC). The references suggest that during this period the term was familiar to the region's neighbors on all sides, although scholars have disputed to what extent such references provide a coherent description of its location and boundaries, and regarding whether the inhabitants used the term to describe themselves.\n\n16 references are known in Egyptian sources, from the Eighteenth Dynasty of Egypt onwards.\n\nPadiiset's Statue is the last known Egyptian reference to Canaan, a small statuette labelled \"Envoy of the Canaan and of Peleset, Pa-di-Eset, the son of Apy\". The inscription is dated to 900–850 BC, more than 300 years after the preceding known inscription.\n\nDuring the period from c. 900–330 BC, the dominant empires of the Neo-Assyrians and Achaemenid Persians make no mention of Canaan.\n\nThe Greek term \"Phoenicia\" is first attested in the first two works of Western literature, Homer's \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\". It does not occur in the Hebrew Bible, but occurs three times in the New Testament in the Book of Acts. In the 6th century BC, Hecataeus of Miletus affirms that Phoenicia was formerly called \"χνα\", a name that Philo of Byblos subsequently adopted into his mythology as his eponym for the Phoenicians: \"Khna who was afterwards called Phoinix\". Quoting fragments attributed to Sanchuniathon, he relates that Byblos, Berytus and Tyre were among the first cities ever built, under the rule of the mythical Cronus, and credits the inhabitants with developing fishing, hunting, agriculture, shipbuilding and writing.\n\nCoins of the city of Beirut / Laodicea bear the legend, \"Of Laodicea, a metropolis in Canaan\"; these coins are dated to the reign of Antiochus IV (175–164 BC) and his successors until 123 BC.\n\nSaint Augustine also mentions that one of the terms the seafaring Phoenicians called their homeland was \"Canaan\". Augustine also records that the rustic people of Hippo in North Africa retained the Punic self-designation \"Chanani\". Since 'punic' in Latin also meant 'non-Roman', some scholars however argue that the language referred to as Punic in Augustine may have been Libyan.\n\nThe Greeks also popularized the term \"Palestine\", named after the Greek Philistines or the Aegean Pelasgians, for roughly the region of Canaan, excluding Phoenicia, with Herodotus' first recorded use of \"Palaistinê\", c. 480 BC. From 110 BC, the Hasmoneans extended their authority over much of the region, creating a Judean-Samaritan-Idumaean-Ituraean-Galilean alliance. The Judean (Jewish, see Ioudaioi) control over the wider area resulted in it also becoming known as Judaea, a term that had previously only referred to the smaller region of the Judean Mountains, the allotment of the Tribe of Judah and heartland of the former Kingdom of Judah. Between 73–63 BC, the Roman Republic extended its influence into the region in the Third Mithridatic War, conquering Judea in 63 BC, and splitting the former Hasmonean Kingdom into five districts. Around 130–135 AD, as a result of the suppression of the Bar Kochba revolt, the province of Iudaea was joined with Galilee to form new province of Syria Palaestina. There is circumstantial evidence linking Hadrian with the name change, although the precise date is not certain, and the interpretation of some scholars that the name change may have been intended \"to complete the dissociation with Judaea\" is disputed.\n\nAfter the Iron Age the periods are named after the various empires that ruled the region: Assyrian, Babylonian, Persian, Greek (Hellenistic) and Roman.\n\nOne of the earliest settlements in the region was at Jericho in Canaan. The earliest settlements were seasonal, but, by the Bronze Age, had developed into large urban centres.\n\nBy the Early Bronze Age other sites had developed, such as Ebla (where an East Semitic language, Eblaite, was spoken), which by c. 2300 BC was incorporated into the Mesopotamia-based Akkadian Empire of Sargon the Great and Naram-Sin of Akkad (biblical Accad). Sumerian references to the \"Mar.tu\" (\"tent dwellers\", later \"Amurru\", i.e. Amorite) country West of the Euphrates date from even earlier than Sargon, at least to the reign of the Sumerian king, Enshakushanna of Uruk, and one tablet credits the early Sumerian king Lugal-anne-mundu with holding sway in the region, although this tablet is considered less credible because it was produced centuries later.\n\nThe archives of Ebla show reference to a number of biblical sites, including Hazor, Jerusalem, and as a number of people have claimed, to Sodom and Gomorrah mentioned in Genesis as well. Ebla and Amorites at Hazor, Kadesh (Qadesh-on-the-Orontes), and elsewhere in Amurru (Syria) bordered Canaan in the north and northeast. (Ugarit may be included among these Amoritic entities.) The collapse of the Akkadian Empire in 2154 BC saw the arrival of peoples using Khirbet Kerak Ware pottery, coming originally from the Zagros Mountains (in modern Iran) east of the Tigris.\n\nThe first cities in the southern Levant arose during this period. These \"proto-Canaanites\" were in regular contact with the other peoples to their south such as Egypt, and to the north Asia Minor (Hurrians, Hattians, Hittites, Luwians) and Mesopotamia (Sumer, Akkad, Assyria), a trend that continued through the Iron Age. The end of the period is marked by the abandonment of the cities and a return to lifestyles based on farming villages and semi-nomadic herding, although specialised craft production continued and trade routes remained open.\n\nUrbanism returned and the region was divided among small city-states, the most important of which seems to have been Hazor. Many aspects of Canaanite material culture now reflected a Mesopotamian influence, and the entire region became more tightly integrated into a vast international trading network.\n\nAs early as Naram-Sin of Akkad's reign (c. 2240 BC), \"Amurru\" was called one of the \"four quarters\" surrounding Sumer, along with Subartu/Assyria, Akkad, and Elam.\n\nAmorite dynasties also came to dominate in much of Mesopotamia, including in Larsa, Isin and founding the state of Babylon in 1894 BC. Later on, \"Amurru\" became the Assyrian/Akkadian term for the interior of south as well as for northerly Canaan. At this time the Canaanite area seemed divided between two confederacies, one centred upon Megiddo in the Jezreel Valley, the second on the more northerly city of Kadesh on the Orontes River.\n\nAn Amorite chieftain named Sumu-abum founded Babylon as an independent city-state in 1894 BC. One Amorite king of Babylonia, Hammurabi (1792–1750 BC) founded the first Babylonian Empire, which lasted only as long as his lifetime. Upon his death, the Amorites were driven from Assyria, but remained masters of Babylonia until 1595 BC, when they were ejected by the Hittites.\n\nThe semi-fictional \"Story of Sinuhe\" describes an Egyptian officer, Sinuhe, conducting military activities in the area of \"Upper Retchenu\" and \"Finqu\" during the reign of Senusret I (c. 1950 BC). The earliest \"bonafide\" Egyptian report of a campaign to \"Mentu\", \"Retchenu\" and \"Sekmem\" (Shechem) is the Sebek-khu Stele, dated to the reign of Senusret III (c. 1862 BC).\n\nAround 1650 BC, Canaanites invaded the eastern Delta of Egypt, where, known as the Hyksos, they became the dominant power.\nIn Egyptian inscriptions, \"Amar\" and \"Amurru\" (Amorites) are applied strictly to the more northerly mountain region east of Phoenicia, extending to the Orontes.\n\nArchaeological excavations of a number of sites, later identified as Canaanite, show that prosperity of the region reached its apogee during this Middle Bronze Age period, under leadership of the city of Hazor, at least nominally tributary to Egypt for much of the period. In the north, the cities of Yamkhad and Qatna were hegemons of important confederacies, and it would appear that biblical Hazor was the chief city of another important coalition in the south.\n\nIn the early Late Bronze Age, Canaanite confederacies centered on Megiddo and Kadesh, before again being brought into the Egyptian Empire and Hittite Empire. Later still, the Neo Assyrian Empire assimilated the region.\n\nThe migrant ancient Semitic-speaking peoples who appear to have settled in the region included (among others) the Amorites, who had earlier controlled Babylonia. The Hebrew Bible mentions the \"Amorites\" in the \"Table of Peoples\" (Gen. 10:16–18a). Evidently, the Amorites played a significant role in the early history of Canaan. In Gen. 14:7 \"f\"., Josh. 10:5 \"f\"., Deut. 1:19 \"f\"., 27, 44, we find them located in the southern mountain country, while verses such as Num. 21:13, Josh. 9:10, 24:8, 12, etc.tell of two great Amorite kings residing at Heshbon and Ashteroth, east of the Jordan. However, other passages such as Gen. 15:16, 48:22, Josh. 24:15, Judg. 1:34, etc. regard the name \"Amorite\" as synonymous with \"Canaanite\"; however \"Amorite\" is never used for the population on the coast.\n\nIn the centuries preceding the appearance of the biblical Hebrews, parts of Canaan and southwestern Syria became tributary to the Egyptian Pharaohs, although domination by the Egyptians remained sporadic, and not strong enough to prevent frequent local rebellions and inter-city struggles. Other areas such as northern Canaan and northern Syria came to be ruled by the Assyrians during this period.\n\nUnder Thutmose III (1479–1426 BC) and Amenhotep II (1427–1400 BC), the regular presence of the strong hand of the Egyptian ruler and his armies kept the Amorites and Canaanites sufficiently loyal. Nevertheless, Thutmose III reported a new and troubling element in the population. Habiru or (in Egyptian) 'Apiru, are reported for the first time. These seem to have been mercenaries, brigands or outlaws, who may have at one time led a settled life, but with bad luck or due to the force of circumstances, contributed a rootless element to the population, prepared to hire themselves to whichever local mayor, king or princeling would pay for their support.\n\nAlthough Habiru (a Sumerian ideogram glossed as \"brigand\" in Akkadian), and sometimes \"\" (an Akkadian word) had been reported in Mesopotamia from the reign of the Sumerian king, Shulgi of Ur III, their appearance in Canaan appears to have been due to the arrival of a new state based in Asia Minor to the north of Assyria and based upon a Maryannu aristocracy of horse-drawn charioteers, associated with the Indo-Aryan rulers of the Hurrians, known as Mitanni.\n\nThe Habiru seem to have been more a social class than an ethnic group. One analysis shows that the majority were, however, Hurrian (a non-Semitic-speaking group from Asia Minor who spoke a language isolate), though there were a number of Semites and even some Kassite and Luwian adventurers amongst their number. The reign of Amenhotep III, as a result was not quite so tranquil for the Asiatic province, as Habiru/'Apiru contributed to greater political instability. It is believed that turbulent chiefs began to seek their opportunities, though as a rule they could not find them without the help of a neighbouring king. The boldest of the disaffected nobles was Aziru, son of Abdi-Ashirta, a prince of Amurru, who, even before the death of Amenhotep III, endeavoured to extend his power into the plain of Damascus. Akizzi, governor of Katna (Qatna?) (near Hamath), reported this to the Pharaoh, who seems to have sought to frustrate Aziru's attempts. In the next reign of the next pharoah (Akhenaten, reigned 1352 to 1335 BC), however, both father and son caused infinite trouble to loyal servants of Egypt like Rib-Hadda, governor of Gubla (Gebal), not the least through transferring loyalty from the Egyptian crown to that of the expanding neighbouring Asia-Minor-based Hittite Empire under Suppiluliuma I (reigned 1344–1322 BC)\n\nEgyptian power in Canaan thus suffered a major setback when the Hittites (or Hat.ti) advanced into Syria in the reign of Amenhotep III, and when they became even more threatening in that of his successor, displacing the Amorites and prompting a resumption of Semitic migration. Abdi-Ashirta and his son Aziru, at first afraid of the Hittites, afterwards made a treaty with their king, and joining with the Hittites, attacked and conquered the districts remaining loyal to Egypt. In vain did Rib-Hadda send touching appeals for aid to the distant Pharaoh, who was far too engaged in his religious innovations to attend to such messages.\n\nThe Amarna letters tell of the Habiri in northern Syria. Etakkama wrote thus to the Pharaoh:\nSimilarly, Zimrida, king of Sidon (named 'Siduna'), declared, \"All my cities which the king has given into my hand, have come into the hand of the Habiri.\" The king of Jerusalem, Abdi-Heba, reported to the Pharaoh: \nAbdi-heba's principal trouble arose from persons called Iilkili and the sons of Labaya, who are said to have entered into a treasonable league with the Habiri. Apparently this restless warrior found his death at the siege of Gina. All these princes, however, maligned each other in their letters to the Pharaoh, and protested their own innocence of traitorous intentions. Namyawaza, for instance, whom Etakkama (see above) accused of disloyalty, wrote thus to the Pharaoh,\n\nFrom the mid 14th century BC through to the 11th century BC, much of Canaan (particularly the north, central and eastern regions of Syria and the north western Mediterranean coastal regions) fell to the Middle Assyrian Empire, and both Egyptian and Hittite influence waned as a result. Powerful Assyrian kings extracted tribute from Canaanite states and cities from north, east and central Syria as far as the Mediterranean.\nThe King of Assyria Arik-den-ili (reigned 1307–1296 BC), consolidated Assyrian power in the Levant, he defeated and conquered ancient Semitic-speaking peoples of the so-called Ahlamu group. He was followed by Adad-nirari I (1295–1275 BC) who continued expansion to the northwest, mainly at the expense of the Hittites and Hurrians, conquering Hittite territories such as Carchemish and beyond. In 1274 BC Shalmaneser I ascended the Assyrian throne. A powerful warrior king, he annexed territories in Syria and Canaan previously under Egyptian or Hittite influence, and the growing power of Assyria was perhaps the reason why these two states made peace with one another. This trend continued under Tukulti-Ninurta I (1244–1208 BC) and after a hiatus, under Tiglath-Pileser I (1115–1077 BC) who conquered the Arameans of northern Syria, and thence he proceeded to conquer Damascus and the Canaanite/Phoenician cities of (Byblos), Sidon, Tyre and finally Arvad.\n\nAnn Killebrew has shown that cities such as Jerusalem were large and important walled settlements in the 'Pre-Israelite' Middle Bronze IIB and the Israelite Iron Age IIC period (c. 1800–1550 and 720–586 BC), but that during the intervening Late Bronze (LB) and Iron Age I and IIA/B Ages sites like Jerusalem were small and relatively insignificant and unfortified towns.\n\nJust after the Amarna period a new problem arose which was to trouble the Egyptian control of southern Canaan (the rest of the region now being under Assyrian control). Pharaoh Horemhab campaigned against \"Shasu\" (Egyptian = \"wanderers\") or living in nomadic pastoralist tribes, who had moved across the Jordan to threaten Egyptian trade through Galilee and Jezreel. Seti I (c. 1290 BC) is said to have conquered these \"Shasu,\" Semitic-speaking nomads living just south and east of the Dead Sea, from the fortress of Taru (Shtir?) to \"Ka-n-'-na\". After the near collapse of the Battle of Kadesh, Rameses II had to campaign vigorously in Canaan to maintain Egyptian power. Egyptian forces penetrated into Moab and Ammon, where a permanent fortress garrison (Called simply \"Rameses\") was established.\n\nSome believe the \"Habiru\" signified generally all the nomadic tribes known as \"Hebrews\", and particularly the early Israelites of the period of the \"judges\", who sought to appropriate the fertile region for themselves. However, the term was rarely used to describe the \"Shasu\". Whether the term may also include other related ancient Semitic-speaking peoples such as the Moabites, Ammonites and Edomites is uncertain. It may not be an ethnonym at all; see the article Habiru for details.\n\nBy the Early Iron Age, the southern Levant came to be dominated by the kingdoms of Israel and Judah, besides the Philistine city-states on the Mediterranean coast, and the kingdoms of Moab, Ammon and Aram-Damascus east of the Jordan River, and Edom to the south.\nThe northern Levant was divided into various petty kingdoms, the so-called Syro-Hittite states and the Phoenician city-states.\n\nThe entire region (including all Phoenician/Canaanite and Aramean states, together with Israel, Philistia and Samarra) was conquered by the Neo-Assyrian Empire during the 10th and 9th centuries BC, and would remain so for three hundred years until the end of the 7th century BC. Assyrian emperor-kings such as Ashurnasirpal, Adad-nirari II, Sargon II, Tiglath-Pileser III, Esarhaddon, Sennacherib and Ashurbanipal came to dominate Canaanite affairs. The Egyptians, then under a Nubian Dynasty, made a failed attempt to regain a foothold in the region, but were vanquished by the Assyrians, leading to an Assyrian invasion and conquest of Egypt and the destruction of the Kushite Empire. The Kingdom of Judah was forced to pay tribute to Assyria. Between 616 and 605 BC the Assyrian Empire collapsed due to a series of bitter internal civil wars, followed by an attack by an alliance of Babylonians, Medes and Persians and the Scythians. The Babylonians inherited the western part of the empire of their Assyrian brethren, including all the lands in Canaan and Syria, together with Israel and Judah. They successfully defeated the Egyptians, who had belatedly attempted to aid their former masters, the Assyrians, and then remained in the region in an attempt to regain a foothold in the Near East. The Babylonian Empire itself collapsed in 539 BC, and Canaan fell to the Persians and became a part of the Achaemenid Empire. It remained so until in 332 BC it was conquered by the Greeks under Alexander the Great, later to fall to Rome in the late 2nd century BC, and then Byzantium, until the Arab Islamic invasion and conquest of the 7th century.\n\nCanaan included what today are Lebanon, Israel, northwestern Jordan, and some western areas of Syria. According to archaeologist Jonathan N. Tubb, \"Ammonites, Moabites, Israelites and Phoenicians undoubtedly achieved their own cultural identities, and yet ethnically they were all Canaanites\", \"the same people who settled in farming villages in the region in the 8th millennium BC.\"\n\nThere is uncertainty about whether the name \"Canaan\" refers to a specific Semitic-speaking ethnic group wherever they live, the homeland of this ethnic group, or a region under the control of this ethnic group, or perhaps any combination of the three.\n\nCanaanite civilization was a response to long periods of stable climate interrupted by short periods of climate change. During these periods, Canaanites profited from their intermediary position between the ancient civilizations of the Middle East—Ancient Egypt, Mesopotamia (Sumer, Akkad, Assyria, Babylonia), the Hittites, and Minoan Crete—to become city states of merchant princes along the coast, with small kingdoms specializing in agricultural products in the interior. This polarity, between coastal towns and agrarian hinterland, was illustrated in Canaanite mythology by the struggle between the storm god, variously called Teshub (Hurrian) or Ba'al Hadad (Semitic Amorite/Aramean) and Ya'a, Yaw, Yahu or Yam, god of the sea and rivers. Early Canaanite civilization was characterized by small walled market towns, surrounded by peasant farmers growing a range of local horticultural products, along with commercial growing of olives, grapes for wine, and pistachios, surrounded by extensive grain cropping, predominantly wheat and barley. Harvest in early summer was a season when transhumance nomadism was practiced—shepherds staying with their flocks during the wet season and returning to graze them on the harvested stubble, closer to water supplies in the summer. Evidence of this cycle of agriculture is found in the Gezer calendar and in the biblical cycle of the year.\n\nPeriods of rapid climate change generally saw a collapse of this mixed Mediterranean farming system; commercial production was replaced with subsistence agricultural foodstuffs; and transhumance pastoralism became a year-round nomadic pastoral activity, whilst tribal groups wandered in a circular pattern north to the Euphrates, or south to the Egyptian delta with their flocks. Occasionally, tribal chieftains would emerge, raiding enemy settlements and rewarding loyal followers from the spoils or by tariffs levied on merchants. Should the cities band together and retaliate, a neighbouring state intervene or should the chieftain suffer a reversal of fortune, allies would fall away or intertribal feuding would return. It has been suggested that the Patriarchal tales of the Bible reflect such social forms. During the periods of the collapse of Akkadian Empire in Mesopotamia and the First Intermediate Period of Egypt, the Hyksos invasions and the end of the Middle Bronze Age in Assyria and Babylonia, and the Late Bronze Age collapse, trade through the Canaanite area would dwindle, as Egypt, Babylonia, and to a lesser degree Assyria, withdrew into their isolation. When the climates stabilized, trade would resume firstly along the coast in the area of the Philistine and Phoenician cities. As markets redeveloped, new trade routes that would avoid the heavy tariffs of the coast would develop from Kadesh Barnea, through Hebron, Lachish, Jerusalem, Bethel, Samaria, Shechem, Shiloh through Galilee to Jezreel, Hazor and Megiddo. Secondary Canaanite cities would develop in this region. Further economic development would see the creation of a third trade route from Eilath, Timna, Edom (Seir), Moab, Ammon and thence to the Aramean states of Damascus and Palmyra. Earlier states (for example the Philistines and Tyrians in the case of Judah and Samaria, for the second route, and Judah and Israel for the third route) tried generally unsuccessfully to control the interior trade.\n\nEventually, the prosperity of this trade would attract more powerful regional neighbours, such as Ancient Egypt, Assyria, the Babylonians, Persians, Ancient Greeks and Romans, who would control the Canaanites politically, levying tribute, taxes and tariffs. Often in such periods, thorough overgrazing would result in a climatic collapse and a repeat of the cycle (e.g., PPNB, Ghassulian, Uruk, and the Bronze Age cycles already mentioned). The fall of later Canaanite civilization occurred with the incorporation of the area into the Greco-Roman world (as Iudaea province), and after Byzantine times, into the Muslim Arab and proto-Muslim Umayyad Caliphate. Western Aramaic, one of the two lingua francas of Canaanite civilization, is still spoken in a number of small Syrian villages, whilst Phoenician Canaanite disappeared as a spoken language in about 100 AD. A separate Akkadian-infused Eastern Aramaic is still spoken by the existing Assyrians of Iraq, Iran, northeast Syria and southeast Turkey.\n\nTel Kabri contains the remains of a Canaanite city from the Middle Bronze Age (2000–1550 BC). The city, the most important of the cities in the Western Galilee during that period, had a palace at its center. Tel Kabri is the only Canaanite city that can be excavated in its entirety because after the city was abandoned, no other city was built over its remains. It is notable because the predominant extra-Canaanite cultural influence is Minoan; Minoan-style frescoes decorate the palace.\n\n\"Canaan\" is used as a synonym of the Promised Land; for instance, it is used in this sense in the hymn, \"Canaan's Happy Shore\", with the lines: \"Oh, brothers, will you meet me, (3x)/On Canaan's happy shore,\" a hymn set to the tune later used in \"The Battle Hymn of the Republic\".\n\nIn Jewish European history, Bohemia was sometimes called the \"Land of Canaan\", whence the name of the now extinct Knaanic language.\n\nNames of Canaanite kings or other figures mentioned in historiography or known through archaeology\nConfirmed archaeologically\nHebrew Bible and other historiography\n\nRulers of Tyre\nIn Biblical usage, the name was confined to the country west of the Jordan River. Canaanites were described as living \"by the sea, and along by the side of the Jordan\" (Book of Numbers 33:51; Book of Joshua 22:9). Canaan was especially identified with Phoenicia (Book of Isaiah 23:11). The Philistines, while an integral part of the Canaanite milieu, do not seem to have been ethnic Canaanites, and were listed in the Table of Nations as descendants of Mizraim; the Arameans, Moabites, Ammonites, Midianites and Edomites were also considered fellow descendants of Shem or Abraham, and distinct from generic Canaanites/Amorites. \"Heth\", representing the Hittites, is a son of Canaan. The later Hittites spoke an Indo-European language (called \"Nesili\"), but their predecessors the Hattians had spoken a little-known language (\"Hattili\"), of uncertain affinities.\n\nThe Horites, formerly of Mount Seir, were implied to be Canaanite (Hivite), although unusually there is no direct confirmation of this in the narrative. The Hurrians, based in Upper Mesopotamia, spoke the Hurrian language. Their language was a language isolate.\n\nIn the Bible, the renaming of the Land of Canaan as the Land of Israel marks the Israelite conquest of the Promised Land.\n\nCanaan and the Canaanites are mentioned some 160 times in the Hebrew Bible, mostly in the Pentateuch and the books of Joshua and Judges.\n\nAn ancestor called Canaan first appears as one of Noah's grandsons. He appears during the narrative known as the Curse of Ham, in which Canaan is cursed with perpetual slavery because his father Ham had \"looked upon\" the drunk and naked Noah. The expression \"look upon\" at times has sexual overtones in the Bible, as in Leviticus 20:11, \"The man who lies with his father's wife has uncovered his father's nakedness...\" As a result, interpreters have proposed a variety of possibilities as to what kind of transgression has been comitted by Cain, including the possibility that maternal incest is implied.\n\nGod later promises the land of Canaan to Abraham, and eventually delivers it to descendants of Abraham, the Israelites. The biblical history has become increasingly problematic as the archaeological and textual evidence supports the idea that the early Israelites were in fact themselves Canaanites.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible lists borders for the land of Canaan. The Book of Numbers, 34:2, includes the phrase \"the land of Canaan as defined by its borders.\" The borders are then delineated in Numbers 34:3–12. The term \"Canaanites\" in biblical Hebrew is applied especially to the inhabitants of the lower regions, along the sea coast and on the shores of the Jordan River, as opposed to the inhabitants of the mountainous regions. By the Second Temple period (530 BC–70 AD), \"Canaanite\" in the Hebrew language had come to be not an ethnic designation, so much as a general synonym for \"merchant\", as it is interpreted in, for example, Book of Job 40:30, or Book of Proverbs 31:24.\n\nJohn N. Oswalt notes that \"Canaan consists of the land west of the Jordan and is distinguished from the area east of the Jordan.\" Oswalt then goes on to say that in Scripture, Canaan \"takes on a theological character\" as \"the land which is God's gift\" and \"the place of abundance\".\n\nThe Hebrew Bible describes the Israelite conquest of Canaan in the \"Former Prophets\" (\"Nevi'im Rishonim\", ), viz. the books of Joshua, Judges, Samuel, and Kings. These books of the Old Testament canon give the narrative of the Israelites after the death of Moses and their entry into Canaan under the leadership of Joshua. In 586 BC, the Kingdom of Judah was annexed into the Neo-Babylonian Empire. The city of Jerusalem fell after a siege which lasted either eighteen or thirty months. By 586 BC, much of Judah was devastated, and the former kingdom suffered a steep decline of both economy and population. The descendants of the Israelites thus lost control of the land. These narratives of the Former Prophets are also \"part of a larger work, called the Deuteronomistic History\".\n\nThe passage in the Book of Genesis often called the Table of Nations presents the Canaanites as descendants of an eponymous ancestor called Canaan, the son of Ham and grandson of Noah (, \"Knaan\"). () states:\n\nCanaan is the father of Sidon, his firstborn; and of the Hittites, Jebusites, Amorites, Girgashites, Hivites, Arkites, Sinites, Arvadites, Zemarites, and Hamathites. Later the Canaanite clans scattered, and the borders of Canaan reached [across the Mediterranean coast] from Sidon toward Gerar as far as Gaza, and then [inland around the Jordan Valley ] toward Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah and Zeboiim, as far as Lasha.\n\nThe Sidon whom the Table identifies as the firstborn son of Canaan has the same name as that of the coastal city of Sidon in Lebanon. This city dominated the Phoenician coast, and may have enjoyed hegemony over a number of ethnic groups, who are said to belong to the \"Land of Canaan\".\n\nSimilarly, Canaanite populations are said to have inhabited:\n\nThe Canaanites () are said to have been one of seven regional ethnic divisions or \"nations\" driven out by the Israelites following the Exodus. Specifically, the other nations include the Hittites, the Girgashites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites ().\n\nAccording to the \"Book of Jubilees\", the Israelite conquest of Canaan is attributed to Canaan's steadfast refusal to join his elder brothers in Ham's allotment beyond the Nile, and instead \"squatting\" on the eastern shores of the Mediterranean Sea, within the inheritance delineated for Shem. Canaan thus incurs a further curse from Noah for disobeying the agreed apportionment of land.\n\nOne of the 613 commandments (precisely n. 596) prescribes that no inhabitants of the cities of six Canaanite nations, the same as mentioned in 7:1, minus the Girgashites, were to be left alive.\n\nWhile the Hebrew Bible distinguishes the Canaanites ethnically from the ancient Israelites, modern scholars Jonathan Tubb and Mark S. Smith have theorized—based on their archaeological and linguistic interpretations—that the Kingdom of Israel and the Kingdom of Judah represented a subset of Canaanite culture.\n\nThe usage of the names Canaanites and Phoenicians in later books of the Hebrew Bible (such as at the end of the Book of Zechariah, where it is thought to refer to a class of merchants or to non-monotheistic worshippers in Israel or neighbouring Sidon and Tyre), as well as in its single independent usage in the New Testament (where it alternates with the term \"Syrophoenician\" in two parallel passages).\n\n\"Canaan\" (, \"Chanaán\") is used only three times in the New Testament: twice in Acts of the Apostles when paraphrasing Old Testament stories, and once in the exorcism of the Syrophoenician woman's daughter. The latter story is told by both the Gospel of Matthew and the Gospel of Mark; Matthew uses the term \"Chananaia\" (), where Mark calls the woman \"Syrophoenician\" ().\n\nDuring the Atlantic slave trade, many Christians began teaching that black Africans were descendants of Canaan and used the Curse of Ham to justify enslaving black Africans. This belief was especially strong in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, who canonized the Book of Abraham, which teaches that Canaan was a descendant of Cain, that his descendants settled Africa, and that they were cursed. Joseph Smith and Brigham Young both used the Curse of Ham to justify slavery in Mormonism. This was also their rationale in denying Africans access to their priesthood until June 1978, at which point their prophet at the time, President Spencer W. Kimball, announced that as far as priesthood was concerned, the curse was lifted.\n\nModern scholars do not believe that black Africans are related to the Canaanites based upon race as depicted throughout local and Egyptian arts and Genetics and Physical Anthropology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38480385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38480385", "title": "Corporate anniversary", "text": "Corporate anniversary\n\nIn marketing, a Corporate anniversary is a celebration of a firm's continued existence after a particular number of years. The celebration is a media event which can help a firm achieve diverse marketing goals, such as promoting its corporate identity, boosting employee morale, building greater investor confidence, and encouraging sales. As a public relations opportunity, it is a way for a firm to tout past accomplishments while strengthening relationships with employees and customers and investors. The duration of the celebration itself can vary considerably, from an hour or day to activities happening throughout the year. Many businesses use an anniversary to express gratitude for past success. Generally, larger corporations have the means to stage more elaborate celebrations.\n\nAn anniversary can advertise a firm's staying power and longevity. A report in the \"New York Times\" explained the marketing logic:\n\nMarketers choose variables relating to anniversaries to meet specific promotional objectives. While the length of time celebrated by an anniversary is often divisible by five, such as the 10th, 15th, 25th, 50th, or 80th anniversary, there are no hard and fast rules. For example, Google celebrated its 13th anniversary with a special \"doodle\" for its main search page which showed a colorful image of \"cake, presents and balloons.\" Generally, anniversaries are chosen to coincide with marketing initiatives, such that \"any coming of age will do,\" according to one view. An anniversary can commemorate not only a firm's founding year but the introduction of a successful company brand, a merger, a patent, or some other milestone. There are a wide variety of marketing gimmicks and appeals which can accompany an anniversary celebration: sweepstakes, contests, thank you letters, special product editions, parties, guest speakers, birthday displays on websites, giveaways, new product introductions, publicity stunts, sponsorships, fireworks, live musical performances, commemorative packaging, anniversary rings, promotions, signs in retail stores, donations, scholarships, temporary price reductions or discounts, reflections on past accomplishments, special ad campaigns, new logos, and so on.\n\nPlanning an anniversary can take years. In some cases, special marketing consultants and event planners have been hired to coordinate the effort. Large corporations typically work closely with their corporate advertising agency as well as their marketing and sales departments to plan sometimes elaborate campaigns, often with a special theme to mark the occasion. For example, Starbucks marked their 40th anniversary with a redesigned logo and media campaign. Guinness Brewery celebrated its 250th anniversary with a global advertising effort. In 1972, \"Time magazine\" celebrated its 50th anniversary with events throughout the year:\n\nGoya Foods, on its 75th anniversary, donated a million pounds of food to help fight hunger and announced scholarship programs as well as held parties in different locations.\n\nThere is flexibility in terms of choosing which dates to use when determining an anniversary. The start date is often the month or year when a firm was founded, but this can vary considerably, and exceptions are the rule; for example, Lego toys celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2008 –– exactly 50 years after the time when the founder's son, Godtfred Kirk Christiansen, filed a patent for the iconic plastic bricks in 1958.\n\nMeasuring the success of any advertising effort, including an anniversary celebration, can be difficult. Sometimes an anniversary generates negative publicity, such as the tenth anniversary of the merger between AOL and Time Warner, which was largely seen as a colossal business blunder. A report in \"The Guardian\" suggested that corporate anniversaries do not always lead to \"happy returns\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42308496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42308496", "title": "Dariusz Gawin", "text": "Dariusz Gawin\n\nDariusz Gawin (born February 2, 1964) is a Polish historian and sociologist, deputy director of the Warsaw Uprising Museum (\"Muzeum Powstania Warszawskiego\") dedicated to the memory of the Warsaw Uprising of 1944, and located in the Wola district of Warsaw, Poland. Gawin serves as an Adiunkt at the Institute of Philosophy and Sociology of the Polish Academy of Sciences. He is a contributor to leading Polish magazines such as \"Przegląd Polityczny\", \"Res Publica Nowa\", \"Tygodnik Powszechny\" and \"Rzeczpospolita\", as well as historical and scientific journals such as \"Teologia Polityczna\" and \"Krytyka Polityczna\". He was the host of a TV programme \"Trzeci punkt widzenia\" at TVP Kultura.\n\nHe is regarded as historian of political and social ideas such as patriotism, nationalism, antisemitism, totalitarianism and others. He is a frequent moderator in conferences related to these subjects. As an Adiunkt at PAN, Gawin is also the director of its Institute of Civic Society (\"Zakład Społeczeństwa Obywatelskiego\", IFiS PAN), as well as the author of several books. In 2006 he received the Andrzej Kijowski Award for his book \"Polska, wieczny romans\" published in 2005 by .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "275285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275285", "title": "David Mallet (writer)", "text": "David Mallet (writer)\n\nDavid Mallet (or Malloch) (c.1705–1765) was a Scottish dramatist.\n\nHe was educated at the University of Edinburgh, and went to London in 1723 to work as a private tutor. There he became friendly with Alexander Pope, James Thomson, and other literary figures including Henry St John, Viscount Bolingbroke.\n\nHis best-known work was written in the same year: \"William and Margaret\", adapted from a traditional ballad. In 1740, he collaborated with Thomson on a masque, \"Alfred\", which was the vehicle for \"Rule, Britannia!\". His other plays and poetry (e.g. \"Amyntor and Theodora\"), popular at the time, are largely forgotten, but Bolingbroke's writings were edited and published by Mallet in 1754.\n\nMallet was probably the second son of James Malloch of Dunruchan, a well-to-do tenant farmer on Lord Drummond's Perthshire estate, a Roman Catholic, and a member of the outlawed Clan MacGregor. The household suffered during the Jacobite Rebellion of 1715. Mallet gave his age as 28 in 1733, and was therefore born about 1705. He seems to have been educated at the parish school of Crieff under John Ker.\n\nIn 1717 Mallet was acting as janitor in Edinburgh High School. In 1720 he became resident tutor to the sons of Mr. Home of Dreghorn; he held the post till 1723, studied at the same time at the University of Edinburgh (1721–2, 1722–3), and formed a friendship with a fellow student, James Thomson the poet, a future collaborator. In July 1723 he accepted the post of tutor to the sons of the Duke of Montrose. Leaving the university without a degree, he went in August to London, and then to the duke's seat at Shawford, near Winchester. He lived with the family until 1731, mainly in London and Shawford. In 1726 he received the honorary degree of M.A. from the University of Aberdeen, ostensibly for an English poem in imitation of Ker's \"Donaides\". Early in 1727 he made a continental tour with his pupils. Towards the end of 1731 he left the Montrose family, and went to Gosfield in Essex, to act as tutor to the stepson of John Knight, to whose wife, formerly Mrs. Newsham, he had been recommended by Alexander Pope.\n\nOn 2 November 1733 Mallet, with his pupil, matriculated at St. Mary Hall, Oxford, where he resided fairly regularly till 27 September 1734. On 5 March 1735 he received, at his request, the degree of M.A. from the University of Edinburgh, and on the 15th of that month he graduated B.A., and on 6 April M.A. of the University of Oxford. He was again abroad in 1735.\n\nMallet came into favour with the opposition, and was appointed, 27 May 1742, under-secretary to the Prince of Wales. In 1745 he made a tour in Holland.\n\nMallet was rewarded in 1763 by Lord Bute, to whom he had given fulsome praise, with the post of inspector of exchequer-book in the outports of London, a sinecure which he held till his death. In the autumn of the following year he joined his wife Lucy in Paris, but ill health compelled him to return to London. He died on Sunday, 21 April 1765 and was buried on 27 April in St. George's cemetery, South Audley Street.\n\nMallet published a \"Pastoral\" in the \"Edinburgh Miscellany\" in 1720; and during his college days produced a number of short pieces, including an imitation of John Milton entitled \"The Transfiguration\", first published in the \"Edinburgh Magazine\" in 1793. Shortly before his engagement with the Montrose family he composed the ballad of \"William and Margaret\" which was published first anonymously in black letter, and then in 1724, in Allan Ramsay's \"Tea-Table Miscellany\", and Aaron Hill's \"Plain Dealer\" No. 36. Further poems followed, mostly written for John Ker; and in February 1725 he wrote verses on \"Mira\", the \"Clio\" of his friend Thomson. For Thomson's poem on \"Winter\", published in March 1726, he wrote a dedication to Sir Spencer Compton, and some verses for the second edition He had himself written, early in 1725, a poem on the same subject, which was praised by Thomson; and on his return from the continent he prepared for the press \"The Excursion\", in two books, which he had written in 1726.\nOn 22 February 1731 Mallet produced his tragedy of \"Eurydice\" at Drury Lane, with a prologue and epilogue by Aaron Hill. It was acted about thirteen times, and was revived in 1759. Mallet showed his appreciation for Pope with his poem on \"Verbal Criticism\" (1733), in which he ridiculed Lewis Theobald.\n\nMallet made more of a reputation with the tragedy of \"Mustapha\", produced at Drury Lane on 13 Feb. 1738–9. The prologue was by Thomson, and the play was dedicated to Frederick, Prince of Wales: like Thomson's \"Edward and Eleonora\", but less openly, it was directed against the king and Sir Robert Walpole. With James Quin as Solyman, it ran for fourteen nights. In 1740 Mallet published a short \"Life of Bacon\"; shortly afterwards Mallet and Thomson were commanded by the Prince to write the masque of \"Alfred\", to celebrate both the birthday of the Princess Augusta and the anniversary of George I's accession. It was played in the gardens of Cliefden, before the Prince and Princess of Wales, on Friday, 1 August 1740, with Quin, Christiana Horton, and Kitty Clive in the leading parts.\n\nSarah Churchill, Duchess of Marlborough left in 1744 the sum of £1,000 to Mallet and Richard Glover, to write a life of her husband; and Mallet, on Glover's refusal, undertook the work. He only did some research. He published, in May 1747, ‘Amyntor and Theodora, or the Hermit.’\n\nMallet and Thomson had, through George Lyttelton, 1st Baron Lyttelton, support from the Prince of Wales, but then lost it as Lyttelton fell from favour. Mallet then found the patronage of Bolingbroke, and prepared a new edition of the \"Patriot King\", published in 1749; in it he attacked the memory of Pope for having clandestinely edited and printed the work in 1738. There was a short pamphlet war with Pope's friends. He then edited Bolingbroke's works, 5 vols. in March 1754. Samuel Johnson remarked on this enterprise that Bolingbroke had \"spent his life in charging a gun against Christianity\", and \"left half-a-crown to a hungry Scotchman to draw the trigger after his death\".\n\nIn 1751, three years after the death of Thomson, Mallet published a new version of the masque of 1740. The adaptation was major, with new scenes and songs added. It was acted at Drury Lane on 23 February 1751, with David Garrick in the title rôle. The masque of \"Britannia\", an appeal to patriotic sentiment on the eve of an outbreak of war with France, followed in 1755. It was produced at Drury Lane on 9 May, when Garrick spoke the prologue as a drunken sailor.\n\nOn 19 January 1763 Mallet's \"Elvira\" was acted at the same venue during the \"half-price riots\". Garrick took the part of Don Pedro, the last original character in which he was seen; but it provoked a pamphlet of \"Critical Strictures\" by James Boswell and two fellow Scots. In the intervening years Mallet had written lesser works, including the ballad of \"Edwin and Emma\" (1760), and a partisan indictment by a \"Plain Man\" against Admiral Byng in 1757. An extract from his \"The tragedy of Bowes\" appears in \"The Bishoprick Garland 1834\" by Cuthbert Sharp.\n\n"}
{"id": "26914791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26914791", "title": "De Prospectiva Pingendi", "text": "De Prospectiva Pingendi\n\nDe Prospectiva pingendi (On the Perspective of painting) is the earliest and only pre–1500 Renaissance treatise solely devoted to the subject of perspective. It was written by the Italian master Piero della Francesca late in his career but possibly by c. 1474. Despite its Latin title, the opus is written in Italian.\n\nThe subjects covered by Piero della Francesca in these writings include arithmetic, algebra, geometry and innovative work in both solid geometry and perspective.\n\nThe script consists of three parts:\n\n\n\"De Prospectiva Pingendi\" was probably created in the years between 1474 until 1482.\n\nThe writings were inspired by the book \"De pictura\" by Leon Battista Alberti written in 1435 but probably also by works by Euclid. The manuscript later came into the possession of the Biblioteca Palatina in Parma before it was transferred to the Biblioteca Ambrosiana.\n\nMuch of Piero’s work was later absorbed into the writing of others, notably Luca Pacioli. Piero’s work on solid geometry appears in Pacioli’s \"De divina proportione\", a work illustrated by Leonardo da Vinci.\n\nIn 1899 the writings were first published in bookform.\n\n"}
{"id": "39501276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39501276", "title": "Dionisie Fotino", "text": "Dionisie Fotino\n\nDionisie Fotino was a Wallachian historian and high ranking civil servant of Greek origin. He is one of the first scholars to propose a Daco-Roman ancestry for the Romanians by stating, in his \"History of Old Dacia\" of 1818, that \"the Romans and Dacians, crossbreeding, created a distinct, mixed people\" in Dacia Traiana province.\n\nFotinos (Photeinos, Gr. Φωτεινός ) hailed from the so-called Phanariote families within the Ottoman Empire.\n\n"}
{"id": "2275686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2275686", "title": "Franz Xaver Gabelsberger", "text": "Franz Xaver Gabelsberger\n\nFranz Xaver Gabelsberger (9 February 1789 – 4 January 1849, both in Munich) was a German inventor of a shorthand writing system, named Gabelsberger shorthand after him.\n\nGabelsberger, employed as typist by the Bavarian government, started to develop a new shorthand system at age of 28. His system was first fully described in the textbook \"Anleitung zur deutschen Redezeichenkunst oder Stenographie\" (1834) and became rapidly used. He is buried in the Alter Südfriedhof in Munich.\n\n"}
{"id": "53368720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53368720", "title": "Gary B. Cohen", "text": "Gary B. Cohen\n\nGary B. Cohen (born 1948) is an American historian. \n\nGary B. Cohen studied at the University of Southern California (B.A., 1970) and Princeton University (M.A., 1972; Ph.D., 1975). Between 1976–2001, he worked at the University of Oklahoma. Since 2001, he has been working at the University of Minnesota. Between 2010–2013, he was the chair of the Department of History, University of Minnesota. He focuses on social development, ethnic group relations, and education in Austria and the Czech lands in the 19th and 20th centuries. Cohen is also interested in modern European Jewish history and ethnic minorities in modern Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1056969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1056969", "title": "Genji (era)", "text": "Genji (era)\n\nThe new era name was derived from the I Ching.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "358336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=358336", "title": "Gibson Girl", "text": "Gibson Girl\n\nThe Gibson Girl was the personification of the feminine ideal of physical attractiveness as portrayed by the pen-and-ink illustrations of artist Charles Dana Gibson during a 20-year period that spanned the late 19th and early 20th century in the United States and Canada. The artist saw his creation as representing the composite of \"thousands of American girls.\"\n\n The Gibson Girl image that appeared in the 1890s combined elements of older American images of contemporary female beauty, such as the \"fragile lady\" and the \"voluptuous woman\". From the \"fragile lady\" she took the basic slender lines, and a sense of respectability. From the \"voluptuous woman\" she took a large bust and hips, but was not vulgar or lewd, as previous images of women with large busts and hips had been depicted. From this combination emerged the Gibson Girl, who was tall and slender, yet with ample bosom, hips and buttocks. She had an exaggerated S-curve torso shape achieved by wearing a swan-bill corset. Images of her epitomized the late 19th- and early 20th-century Western preoccupation with youthful features and ephemeral beauty. Her neck was thin and her hair piled high upon her head in the contemporary bouffant, pompadour, and chignon (\"waterfall of curls\") fashions. The statuesque, narrow-waisted ideal feminine figure was portrayed as being at ease and stylish.\n\nShe was a member of upper middle class society, always perfectly dressed in the latest fashionable attire appropriate for the place and time of day. The Gibson Girl was also one of the new, more athletic-shaped women, who could be found cycling through Central Park, often exercised and was emancipated to the extent that she could enter the workplace. In addition to the Gibson Girl's refined beauty, in spirit, she was calm, independent, confident, and sought personal fulfillment. She could be depicted attending college and vying for a good mate, but she would never have participated in the suffrage movement.\n\nTaking part in the suffrage movement was something more associated with the New Woman, another cultural image of women that emerged around the same time as the Gibson Girl. As a more popular version of the New Woman, the Gibson Girl both undermined and sanctioned women's desires for progressive sociopolitical change. The New Woman was the more disconcerting of the two images at the time as she was seen as an example of change and disruption within the old patterns of social order, asking for the right to equal educational and work opportunities as well as progressive reform, sexual freedom and suffrage. Whilst the Gibson Girl took on many characteristics of the New Woman, she did so without involving herself in politics and thus did not appear to contemporaries at the time to be usurping traditionally masculine roles as the New Woman was deemed to. She therefore managed to stay within the boundaries of feminine roles without too much transgression.\n\nGibson depicted her as an equal and sometimes teasing companion to men. She was also sexually dominant, for example, literally examining comical little men under a magnifying glass, or, in a breezy manner, crushing them under her feet. Next to the beauty of a Gibson Girl, men often appeared as simpletons or bumblers; and even men with handsome physiques or great wealth alone could not provide satisfaction to her. Gibson illustrated men so captivated by her looks that they would follow her anywhere, attempting to fulfill any desire, even if it was absurd. One memorable drawing shows dumbstruck men following a Gibson Girl's command to plant a young, leafless tree upside-down, roots in the air, simply because she wanted it that way. Most often, a Gibson Girl appeared single and uncommitted. However, a romance always relieved her boredom. Once married, she was shown deeply frustrated if romantic love had disappeared from her life, but satisfied if socializing with girlfriends or happy when doting on her infant child. In drawings such as these there was no hint at pushing the boundaries of women's roles, instead they often cemented the long-standing beliefs held by many from the old social orders, rarely depicting the Gibson Girl as taking part in any activity that could be seen as out of the ordinary for a woman.\n\nThe artist believed that the Gibson Girl represented the beauty of American women:\n\nGibson believed that America's Gibson Girls would become more beautiful:\nMany women posed for Gibson Girl-style illustrations, including Gibson's wife, Irene Langhorne who may have been the original model, and was a sister of Viscountess Nancy (Langhorne) Astor. Other models included Evelyn Nesbit, and Minnie Clark. The most famous Gibson Girl was probably the Belgian-American stage actress, Camille Clifford, whose high coiffure and long, elegant gowns that wrapped around her hourglass figure and tightly corseted wasp waist defined the style. \nAmong the many \"Gibson Girl\" illustrators were Howard Chandler Christy whose work celebrating American \"beauties\" was similar to Gibson's, and Harry G. Peter, who was most famous for his art on Wonder Woman comics.\n\nIn the newly developing art of cinema, although most leading actresses were at the cutting style of the day, the ones who came to embody it best were the Biograph girls, Florence Lawrence and to a more ingénue side of it, Mary Pickford. They personified and catapulted the cult of \"the ideal woman\" for the masses beyond American borders. Camille Clifford, a woman known as the \"ideal Gibson Girl\", posed for various photographers and produced photographs that exemplified the physical characteristics of the Gibson Girl.\n\nSome people argue that the Gibson Girl was the first national beauty standard for American women. Gibson's fictional images of her published in newspapers and magazines during the Belle Époque were extremely popular. Merchandise bearing her image included saucers, ashtrays, tablecloths, pillow covers, chair covers, souvenir spoons, screens, fans, and umbrella stands.\n\nBy the outbreak of World War I, changing fashions caused the Gibson Girl to fall out of favor as women favored practical clothing compatible with changing times over the elegant dresses, bustle gowns, shirtwaists, and terraced, floor-length skirts favored by the Gibson Girl. The image was not forgotten, however, with the USAAF World War II-era SCR-578 (and the similar post-war AN/CRT-3) survival radio transmitters carried by aircraft on over-water operations being given the nickname \"Gibson Girl\" because of their \"hourglass\" shape, which allowed them to be held stationary between the legs while the generator handle was turned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58743563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58743563", "title": "Giuseppina Masotti Biggiogero", "text": "Giuseppina Masotti Biggiogero\n\nGiuseppina Masotti Biggiogero (8 August 1894 – 24 October 1977) was an Italian mathematician and historian. Known for her work in algebraic geometry, she also wrote noted histories of mathematicians, like Maria Gaetana Agnesi and Luca Pacioli. She was a member of the and won both the Bordoni Prize and Torelli Prize for her work.\n\nGiuseppina Biggiogero was born on 8 August 1894 in Melegnano, Italy to Marta (née Massironi) and Biagio Biggiogero. She completed her primary and secondary studies in Lodi, earning a degree as a teacher in 1912. While continuing her studies at the Carlo Cattaneo Technical Institute, she began teaching elementary school, first in Carpiano and later in Melegnano.\n\nReceiving a scholarship to attend the \"Politecnico di Milano\" in 1917, she quit her teaching post. She initially began her studies in engineering, but in 1918 moved to the mathematics courses. Because the \"Politecnico\" did not offer a specific curriculum for math, she transferred in 1919 to the University of Pavia, where she studied under the instruction of . She graduated in 1921, obtaining her diploma for teaching in pure mathematics. Working as an assistant to the professors Luigi Berzolari and Francesco Gerbaldi, Biggiogero published two works on real algebraic curves, which were recognized with the Bordoni and Torelli prizes. Her 1922 book, was titled \"Sulle curve piane, algebriche, reali che presentano massimi d'inclusione\" and she published \"Gruppi di massimi d'inclusione per curve piane, algebriche, reali, d'ordine n\" in 1923.\n\nIn 1924, eager to work with Oscar Chisini, Biggiogero returned to Milan and was appointed as his assistant and the professor for the descriptive and projective geometry courses at the \"Politecnico di Milano\". From 1927, she also gave lectures at the Mathematical and Physical Seminary of Milan, which was founded in that year, and taught higher and projective geometry courses at the University of Milan. She was assigned as the editor of the mathematical entries in the \"Enciclopedia Italiana\" (Italian Encyclopedia, 1933) and reviewed the first sixteen volumes of the work, focusing on the compilations of Federigo Enriques. In 1939, Biggiogero married Arnaldo Masotti, a fellow academic, who at the time was the professor of Rational Mechanics in the Faculty of Architecture. She was made chair of Geometry at the \"Politecnico\" in 1948 and retained that post until her retirement in 1969. In addition to lecturing on descriptive geometry in the mathematics department, she taught projective geometry to the students in the architectural and engineering departments.\n\nBiggiogero's research produced a large body of work on algebraic geometry, including research on the shapes and bundles of algebraic curves, tensorial calculations, Hessian singularities of curves and the construction of the triple and quadruple planes. She and Chisini co-published several works together, including two textbooks \"Lezioni di geometria descrittiva\" (Lessons of Descriptive Geometry) published in 1941 and \"Esercizi di geometria descrittiva\" (Exercises of Descriptive Geometry), produced in 1946. As a secondary path, she researched algebraic differentials, studying transversals, including Liouville's and Reiss' theorems, as well as the invariant theory of Enrico Bompiani. She was also one of the first scholars in Italy to study integral geometry. She published works which summarized the results of Morgan Crofton, Henri Lebesgue, and Luis Santaló, presenting new formulas for determining ovals and ellipses.\n\nAlso concerned with the history of mathematics, Biggiogero published studies on the geometry of the triangle and the tetrahedron, in conjunction with Virginio Retali for the \"Encyclopedia of Elementary Mathematics\". She wrote a biography of Luca Pacioli and with her husband produced a study on Maria Gaetana Agnesi and her works. In 1949, she was made a member of the and was also a member of , the Italian Society of Mathematical and Physical Sciences. In 1974, Clifford Truesdell, editor-in-chief of the \"Archive for History of Exact Sciences\", dedicated volume 14 to Biggiogero and her husband in recognition of their scholarship.\n\nBiggiogero died after a lengthy illness in Milan on 24 October 1977. Posthumously, a street in her home town of Melegnano was named in her honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21523097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21523097", "title": "Grigol Giorgadze", "text": "Grigol Giorgadze\n\nGrigol Giorgadze () (November 30, 1879 – July 18, 1937) was a Georgian historian, jurist and politician.\n\nBorn in Kutaisi into the family of a priest, Giorgadze graduated from a local theological seminary in 1902 and from the Kharkiv University in 1909. Returning to Georgia, he practiced law in his native Kutaisi from 1909 to 1917. At the same time, he edited the local Social Democratic Party newspaper \"P'oni\". After Georgia's declaration of independence, he served as a Minister of War in the government of the Noe Ramishvili from 1918 to 1919 and then was elected to the Constituent Assembly of Georgia. From 1920 to 1921, he led an opposition group \"Skhivi\" (\"Beam\") within the Georgian Social Democratic (Menshevik) Party. After the Sovietization of Georgia, he retired from politics and worked as a legal consultant in Georgia and Kazakhstan and engaged in research of pre- and revolutionary Georgia's history. During Joseph Stalin's Great Purge, he was arrested, exiled to Kazakhstan, and shot at Almaty.\n"}
{"id": "28856084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28856084", "title": "Guy Beiner", "text": "Guy Beiner\n\nGuy Beiner (born 1968) is a historian of the late-modern period. He is a full professor at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev in Beer Sheva, Israel.\n\nGuy Beiner is a graduate of Tel Aviv University and holds a PhD from the National University of Ireland. He was a Government of Ireland Scholar at University College Dublin, a Government of Ireland Research Fellow at Trinity College Dublin, a National Endowment for the Humanities Fellow at the Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies in the University of Notre Dame, a Government of Hungary Fellow at the Central European University in Budapest, a Gerta Henkel Marie Curie Fellow at the Faculty of History of the University of Oxford, and a research associate of St Catherine's College, Oxford.His research focuses on remembrance and forgetting in modern history, with a particular interest in modern Ireland. He has also published on other subjects, including oral history, the influenza pandemic of 1918-19, and the history of terrorism. In recent years his work has primarily focused on \"social forgetting\".\n\nHis book \"Remembering the Year of the French: Irish Folk History and Social Memory\" (University of Wisconsin Press: Madison, 2007; paperback 2009) won several international awards, including the Ratcliff Prize 2007 for \"an important contribution by an individual to the study of Folklore or Folk Life in Great Britain and Ireland\"; the Wayland D. Hand Prize 2008 for an outstanding publication in history and folklore; the National Council on Public History [NCPH] Book Award 2008 finalist, commended for \"outstanding contribution in the subfield of public history and policy\"; Cundill International Prize 2008 longlist for a book determined to have a profound literary, social and academic impact in the area of history.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22713904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22713904", "title": "Hacksilver", "text": "Hacksilver\n\nHacksilver (sometimes referred to as hacksilber) consists of fragments of cut and bent silver items that were used as bullion or as currency by weight in antiquity.\n\nHacksilver was common among the Norsemen or Vikings, as a result of both their raiding and trade. Hacksilver may also have been used by Romans in their dealings with Pictish tribes. The name of the ruble, the basic unit of modern Russian currency, is derived from the Russian verb рубить ('rubit'), meaning \"to chop\", from the practice of the Rus, described by Ahmad ibn Fadlan visiting the Volga Vikings in 922. An example of the related Viking weighing scale with weights was found on the Isle of Gigha. Hacksilver may be derived from silver tableware, Roman or Byzantine, church plate and silver objects such as reliquaries or book-covers, and jewellery from a range of areas. Hoards may typically include a mixture of hacksilver, coins, ingots and complete small pieces of jewellery.\n\nHoards of hacksilver are also well known in pre and post-coinage antiquity, in European and Near Eastern contexts. The Cisjordan Corpus (c.1200-586 BC) is the largest identified concentration of pre-coinage hacksilver hoards, and provides key evidence for the Phoenician and wider Near Eastern roots of the development and proliferation of the earliest silver coinages in the Greek world and western tradition.\n\nThe widespread adoption of Greek silver coinages by c. 480 BC appears to have developed first out of cooperative relations between Greeks and Phoenicians, then partly as a competitive, culturally consolidating response to earlier Phoenician expansion and domination of silver trade, which had been conducted with hacksilver. Within the Cisjordan Corpus, a concentration of hacksilver hoards occurs in a part of southern Phoenicia that was recorded in antiquity as a territory of the Shardana tribes of Sea Peoples associated with Sardinia. Thompson, in her analyses of the hacksilver pieces, relates this textual evidence to lead isotope ratios that have ore signatures matching Sardinian ores. This is the first recognized material evidence linking the two regions in this critical period. The same hacksilver hoards have provided the first recognized provenance-evidence for far-reaching contact between Europe and Asia related to the prehistoric trafficking of metals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1606543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1606543", "title": "Historical theology", "text": "Historical theology\n\nHistorical theology as a branch of theology investigates the socio-historical and cultural mechanisms that give rise to theological ideas, statements, and systems. The field focuses on the relationship between theology and its contexts, as well as on the major theological or philosophical influences upon the figures and topics studied. Its methodological foundation and aims are similar to those used by intellectual historians researching historical epistemology, particularly those such as Matthew Daniel Eddy, who investigate the cultural connections between theology and other disciplines that existed in the past.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4478036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4478036", "title": "History of French", "text": "History of French\n\nFrench is a Romance language (meaning that it is descended primarily from Vulgar Latin) that evolved out of the Gallo-Romance spoken in northern France.\n\nThe discussion of the history of a language is typically divided into \"external history\", describing the ethnic, political, social, technological, and other changes that affected the languages, and \"internal history\", describing the phonological and grammatical changes undergone by the language itself.\n\nBefore the Roman conquest of what is now France by Julius Caesar (58–52 BC), much of present France was inhabited by Celtic-speaking people referred to by the Romans as Gauls and Belgae. Southern France was also home to a number of other remnant linguistic and ethnic groups including Iberians along the eastern part of the Pyrenees and western Mediterranean coast, remnant Ligures on the eastern Mediterranean coast and in the alpine areas, Greek colonials in places such as Marseille and Antibes, and Vascones and Aquitani (Proto-Basques) in much of the southwest. The Gaulish speaking population is held to have continued speaking Gaulish even as considerable Romanization of the local material culture occurred, with Gaulish and Latin coexisting for centuries under Roman rule, and the last attestation of Gaulish deemed credible having been written in the second half of the 6th century about the destruction of a pagan shrine in Auvergne.\n\nThe Celtic population of Gaul had spoken Gaulish, which is moderately well attested, with what appears to be wide dialectal variation including one distinctive variety, Lepontic. While the French language evolved from Vulgar Latin (i.e., a Latinised popular Italo-Celtic dialect called \"sermo vulgaris\"), it was nonetheless influenced by Gaulish. Chief among these are sandhi phenomena (liaison, resyllabification, lenition), the loss of unstressed syllables, and the vowel system (e.g. raising , → , , fronting stressed → , → or ). Syntactic oddities attributable to Gaulish include the intensive prefix \"ro\"- ~ \"re\"- (cited in the Vienna glossary, 5th century) (cf. \"luire\" \"to glimmer\" vs. \"reluire\" \"to shine\"; related to Irish \"ro\"- and Welsh \"rhy\"- \"very\"), emphatic structures, prepositional periphrastic phrases to render verbal aspect, the semantic development of \"oui\" \"yes\", \"aveugle\" \"blind\", and so on.\n\nSome sound changes are attested. The sound changes → and → appears in a pottery inscription from la Graufesenque (1st century) where the word \"paraxsidi\" is written for \"paropsides\". Similarly, the development -\"cs\"- → → and -\"ct\"- → → , the second common to much of Western Romance languages, also appears in inscriptions, e.g. \"Divicta\" ~ \"Divixta\", \"Rectugenus\" ~ \"Rextugenus\" ~ \"Reitugenus\", and is present in Welsh, e.g. *\"seχtan\" → \"saith\" \"seven\", *\"eχtamos\" → \"eithaf\" \"extreme\". For Romance, compare:\nThese two changes sometimes had a cumulative effect in French: Latin \"capsa\" → *\"kaχsa\" → \"caisse\" (vs. Italian \"cassa\", Spanish \"caja\") or \"captīvus\" → *\"kaχtivus\" → Occ \"caitiu\", OFr \"chaitif\" (mod. \"chétif\" \"wretched, feeble\", cf. Welsh \"caeth\" \"bondman, slave\", vs. It. \"cattivo\", Sp. \"cautivo\").\n\nIn French and adjoining folk dialects and closely related languages, some 200 words of Gaulish origin have been retained, most of which pertain to folk life. These include: \nOther Celtic words were not borrowed directly, but brought in through Latin, some of which had become commonplace in Latin, as for instance \"braies\" \"knee-length pants\", \"chainse\" \"tunic\", \"char\" \"dray, wagon\", \"daim\" \"roe deer\", \"étain\" \"tin\", \"glaive\" \"broad sword\", \"manteau\" \"coat\", \"vassal\" \"serf, knave\". Latin quickly took hold among the urban aristocracy for mercantile, official, and educational reasons, but did not prevail in the countryside until some four or five centuries later, since Latin was of little or no social value to the landed gentry and peasantry. The eventual spread of Latin can be attributed to social factors in the Late Empire such as the movement from urban-focused power to village-centered economies and legal serfdom.\n\nFrom the 3rd century on, Western Europe was invaded by Germanic tribes from the north and east, and some of these groups settled in Gaul. In the history of the French language, the most important of these groups are the Franks in northern France, the Alemanni in the modern German/French border area (Alsace), the Burgundians in the Rhône (and the Saone) valley, and the Visigoths in the Aquitaine region and Spain. The Frankish language had a profound influence on the Latin spoken in their respective regions, altering both the pronunciation (especially the vowel system phonemes; \"e\", \"eu\", \"u\", short \"o\") and the syntax. They also introduced a number of new words (\"see List of French words of Germanic origin\"). Sources disagree on how much of the vocabulary of modern French (excluding French dialects) comes from Germanic words, ranging from just 500 words (≈1%) (representing loans from ancient Germanic languages: Gothic and Frankish) to 15% of modern vocabulary (representing all Germanic loans up to modern times: Gothic, Frankish, Old Norse/Scandinavian, Dutch, German and English) to even higher if Germanic words coming from Latin and other Romance languages are taken into account. (Note: According to the Académie française, only 5% of French words come from English.)\n\nChanges in lexicon/morphology/syntax:\n\nThe Frankish language had a determining influence on the birth of Old French, which in part explains why Old French is the earliest attested of the Romance languages (e.g. the Oaths of Strasbourg, \"Sequence of Saint Eulalia\"). The new speech diverged quite markedly from the Latin, with which it was no longer mutually intelligible. The Old Low Frankish influence is also primarily responsible for the differences between the \"langue d'oïl\" and \"langue d'oc\" (Occitan) as well, because different parts of Northern France remained bilingual in Latin and Germanic for several centuries, corresponding exactly to the places where the first documents in Old French were written. This Germanic language shaped the popular Latin spoken here and gave it a very distinctive character compared to the other future Romance languages. The very first noticeable influence is the substitution of a Germanic stress accent for the Latin melodic accent, which resulted in diphthongization, distinction between long and short vowels, the loss of the unaccentuated syllable and of final vowels, e.g. Latin \"decima\" > F \"dîme\" (> E \"dime\". Italian \"decima\"; Spanish \"diezmo\"); Vulgar Latin \"dignitate\" > OF \"deintié\" (> E \"dainty\". Occitan \"dinhitat\"; Italian \"dignità\"; Spanish \"dignidad\"); VL \"catena\" > OF \"chaiene\" (> E \"chain\". Occitan \"cadena\"; Italian \"catena\"; Spanish \"cadena\"). On the other hand, a common word like L \"aqua\" > Occitan \"aigue\" became OF \"ewe\" > F \"eau\" 'water' (and \"évier\" sink), likely influenced by the OS or OHG word pronunciation \"aha\" (PG *\"ahwo\").\n\nIn addition, two new phonemes that no longer existed in Vulgar Latin were added: [h] and [w] (> OF \"g(u)-\", ONF \"w-\" cf. Picard \"w-\"), e.g. VL \"altu\" > OF \"halt\" 'high' (influenced by OLF \"*hauh\"; ≠ Italian, Spanish \"alto\"; Occitan \"naut\"); VL \"vespa\" > F \"guêpe\" (ONF \"wespe\"; Picard \"wespe\") 'wasp' (influenced by OLF \"*waspa\"; ≠ Occitan \"vèspa\"; Italian \"vespa\"; Spanish \"avispa\"); L \"viscus\" > F \"gui\" 'mistletoe' (influenced by OLF \"*wihsila\" 'morello', together with analogous fruits, when they are not ripe; ≠ Occitan \"vesc\"; Italian \"vischio\"); LL \"vulpiculu\" 'little fox' (from L \"vulpes\" 'fox') > OF \"g[o]upil\" (influenced by OLF \"*wulf\" 'wolf'; ≠ Italian \"volpe\"). It is to be noted Italian and Spanish words of Germanic origin borrowed from French or directly from Germanic also retain this [gw] and [g], cf. It, Sp. \"guerra\" 'war'. In these examples, we notice a clear consequence of bilingualism, which frequently alters the initial syllable of the Latin.\n\nThere is also the converse example, where the Latin word influences the Germanic one: \"framboise\" 'raspberry' from OLF \"*brambasi\" (cf. OHG \"brāmberi\" > \"Brombeere\" 'mulberry'; E \"brambleberry\"; \"*basi\" 'berry' cf. Got. \"-basi\", Dutch \"bes\" 'berry') conflated with LL \"fraga\" or OF \"fraie\" ‘strawberry’, which explains the shift to [f] from [b], and in turn the final \"-se\" of \"framboise\" turned \"fraie\" into \"fraise\" (≠ Occitan \"fragosta\" 'raspberry', Italian \"fragola\" 'strawberry'. Portuguese \"framboesa\" 'raspberry' and Spanish \"frambuesa\" are from French).\n\nPhilologists such as Pope (1934) estimate that still perhaps fifteen percent of the vocabulary of modern French derives from Germanic sources, though the proportion was larger in Old French, as the language was consequently re-Latinised and partly Italianised by clerics and grammarians in the Middle Ages and later. Nevertheless, a large number of words like \"haïr\" \"to hate\" (≠ Latin \"odiare\" > Italian \"odiare\", Spanish \"odiar\", Occitan \"asirar\") and \"honte\" \"shame\" (≠ Latin \"vĕrēcundia\" > Occitan \"vergonha\", Italian \"vergogna\", Spanish \"vergüenza\") remain common.\n\nUrban T. Holmes Jr. estimated that German was spoken as a second tongue by public officials in western Austrasia and Neustria as late as the 850s, and that it completely disappeared as a spoken language from these regions only during the 10th century, though some traces of Germanic elements still survive, especially in dialectal French (Poitevin, Norman, Burgundian, Walloon, Picard, etc.).\n\nIn 1204 AD, the Duchy of Normandy was integrated into the Crown lands of France, and many words were introduced into the French language from Norman of which about 150 words of Scandinavian origin are still in use. Most of these words have to do with the sea and seafaring: \"abraquer, alque, bagage, bitte, cingler, équiper (to equip), flotte, fringale, girouette, guichet, hauban, houle, hune, mare, marsouin, mouette, quille, raz, siller, touer, traquer, turbot, vague, varangue, varech\". Others pertain to farming and daily life: \"accroupir, amadouer, bidon, bigot, brayer, brette, cottage, coterie, crochet, duvet, embraser, fi, flâner, guichet, haras, harfang, harnais, houspiller, marmonner, mièvre, nabot, nique, quenotte, raccrocher, ricaner, rincer, rogue\".\n\nLikewise, words borrowed from Dutch deal mainly with trade, or are nautical in nature, but not always so: \"affaler, amarrer, anspect, bar (sea-bass), bastringuer, bière (beer), blouse (bump), botte, bouée, bouffer, boulevard, bouquin, cague, cahute, caqueter, choquer, diguer, drôle, dune, équiper (to set sail), frelater, fret, grouiller, hareng, hère, lamaneur, lège, manne, mannequin, maquiller, matelot, méringue, moquer, plaque, sénau, tribord, vacarme\", as are words from Low German: \"bivouac, bouder, homard, vogue, yole\", and English of this period: \"arlequin\" (from Italian \"arlecchino\" < Norman \"hellequin\" < OE *\"Herla cyning\"), \"bateau, bébé, bol\" (sense 2 ≠ bol < Lt. \"bolus\"), \"bouline, bousin, cambuse, cliver, chiffe/chiffon, drague, drain, est, groom, héler, merlin, mouette, nord, ouest, potasse, rade, rhum, sonde, sud, turf, yacht\".\n\nThe medieval Italian poet Dante, in his Latin \"De vulgari eloquentia\", classified the Romance languages into three groups by their respective words for \"yes\": \"Nam alii oc, alii si, alii vero dicunt oil\", \"For some say \"oc\", others say \"si\", others say \"oïl\"\". The \"oïl\" languagesfrom Latin \" \", \"that is it\"occupied northern France, the \"oc\" languagesfrom Latin ', \"that\"southern France, and the \"si\" languagesfrom Latin ', \"thus\"the Italian and Iberian peninsulas. Modern linguists typically add a third group within France around Lyon, the \"Arpitan\" or \"Franco-Provençal language\", whose modern word for \"yes\" is \"ouè\".\n\nThe Gallo-Romance group in the north of France, the \"langue d'oïl\" like Picard, Walloon, and Francien, were influenced by the Germanic languages spoken by the Frankish invaders. From the time period of Clovis I on, the Franks extended their rule over northern Gaul. Over time, the French language developed from either the Oïl language found around Paris and Île-de-France (the Francien theory) or from a standard administrative language based on common characteristics found in all Oïl languages (the lingua franca theory).\n\n\"Langue d'oc\", the languages which use \"oc\" or \"òc\" for \"yes\", is the language group in the south of France and northern Spain. These languages, such as Gascon and Provençal, have relatively little Frankish influence.\n\nThe Middle Ages also saw the influence of other linguistic groups on the dialects of France:\n\nModern French, principally derived from the \"langue d'oïl\" acquired the word \"si\", used to contradict negative statements or respond to negative questions, from cognate forms of \"yes\" in Spanish and Catalan (\"sí\"), Portuguese (\"sim\"), and Italian (\"sì\").\n\nFrom the 4th to 7th centuries, Brythonic-speaking peoples from Cornwall, Devon, and Wales traveled across the English Channel, both for reasons of trade and of flight from the Anglo-Saxon invasions of England. They established themselves in Armorica. Their language became Breton in more recent centuries, giving French \"bijou\" \"jewel\" (< Breton \"bizou\" from \"biz\" \"finger\") and \"menhir\" (< Breton \"maen\" \"stone\" and \"hir\" \"long\").\n\nAttested since the time of Julius Caesar, a non-Celtic people who spoke a Basque-related language inhabited the Novempopulania (\"Aquitania Tertia\") in southwestern France, while the language gradually lost ground to the expanding Romance during a period spanning most of the Early Middle Ages. This Proto-Basque influenced the emerging Latin-based language spoken in the area between the Garonne and the Pyrenees, eventually resulting in the dialect of Occitan called Gascon. Its influence is seen in words like \"boulbène\" and \"cargaison\".\n\nScandinavian Vikings invaded France from the 9th century onwards and established themselves mostly in what would come to be called Normandy. The Normans took up the langue d'oïl spoken there, although Norman French remained heavily influenced by Old Norse and its dialects. They also contributed many words to French related to sailing (\"mouette, crique, hauban, hune\", etc.) and farming.\n\nAfter the conquest of England in 1066, the Normans's language developed into Anglo-Norman. Anglo-Norman served as the language of the ruling classes and commerce in England from the time of the conquest until the Hundred Years' War, by which time the use of French-influenced English had spread throughout English society.\n\nAround this time period, many words from the Arabic language (or from Persian via Arabic) entered French, mainly indirectly through Medieval Latin, Italian and Spanish. There are words for luxury goods (\"élixir, orange\"), spices (\"camphre, safran\"), trade goods (\"alcool, bougie, coton\"), sciences (\"alchimie, hasard\"), and mathematics (\"algèbre, algorithme\"). Only after the 19th century development of French colonies in North Africa did French borrow words directly from Arabic (e.g., \"toubib\", \"chouia\", \"mechoui\").\n\nFor the period up to around 1300, some linguists refer to the oïl languages collectively as Old French (\"ancien français\"). The earliest extant text in French is the Oaths of Strasbourg from 842; Old French became a literary language with the \"chansons de geste\" that told tales of the paladins of Charlemagne and the heroes of the Crusades.\n\nThe first government authority to adopt Modern French as official was the Aosta Valley in 1536, three years before France itself. By the Ordinance of Villers-Cotterêts in 1539 King Francis I made French the official language of administration and court proceedings in France, ousting the Latin that had been used before then. With the imposition of a standardised chancery dialect and the loss of the declension system, the dialect is referred to as Middle French (\"moyen français\"). The first grammatical description of French, the \"Tretté de la Grammaire française\" by Louis Maigret, was published in 1550. Many of the 700 words of modern French that originate from Italian were introduced in this period, including several denoting artistic concepts (\"scenario\", \"piano\"), luxury items, and food.\n\nFollowing a period of unification, regulation, and purification, the French of the 17th to the 18th centuries is sometimes referred to as Classical French (\"français classique\"), although many linguists simply refer to French language from the 17th century to today as Modern French (\"français moderne\").\n\nThe foundation of the Académie française (French Academy) in 1634 by Cardinal Richelieu created an official body whose goal has been the purification and preservation of the French language. This group of 40 members is known as the Immortals, not, as some erroneously believe, because they are chosen to serve for the extent of their lives (which they are), but because of the inscription engraved on the official seal given to them by their founder Richelieu—\"À l'immortalité\" (\"to [the] Immortality [of the French language]\"). The foundation still exists and contributes to the policing of the language and the adaptation of foreign words and expressions. Some recent modifications include the change from \"software\" to \"logiciel\", \"packet-boat\" to \"paquebot\", and \"riding-coat\" to \"redingote\". The word \"ordinateur\" for \"computer\" was however not created by the Académie, but by a linguist appointed by IBM (see ).\n\nFrom the 17th to the 19th centuries, France was the leading power of Europe; thanks to this, together with the influence of the Enlightenment, French was the lingua franca of educated Europe, especially with regards to the arts, literature, and diplomacy; monarchs like Frederick II of Prussia and Catherine the Great of Russia could both not just speak and write in French, but in most excellent French. The Russian, German and Scandinavian Courts spoke French as their main or official language, regarding their national languages as the language of the peasants. Spread of French to other European countries was also aided by emigration of persecuted Hugenots.\n\nDuring the 17th and 18th centuries, the French language established itself permanently in the Americas. There is an academic debate about how fluent in French the colonists of New France were. While less than 15% of colonists (25% of the women – chiefly \"filles du roi\" – and 5% of the men) were from the region of Paris and presumably spoke French, most of the rest came from north-western and western regions of France where regular French was not the primary native language. It is not clearly known how many among those colonists understood French as a second language, and how many among them – who, in overwhelming majority, natively spoke an oïl language – could understand, and be understood by, those who speak French thanks to interlinguistic similarity. In any case, a linguistic unification of all the groups coming from France happened (either in France, on the ships, or in Canada) such that, according to many sources, the then \"Canadiens\" were all speaking French (King's French) natively by the end of the 17th century, well before the unification was complete in France. Canada's reputation was to speak as good French as Paris did. Today, French is the language of about 10 million people (not counting French-based creoles, which are also spoken by about 10 million people) in the Americas.\n\nThrough the Académie, public education, centuries of official control and the role of media, a unified official French language has been forged, but there remains a great deal of diversity today in terms of regional accents and words. For some critics, the \"best\" pronunciation of the French language is considered to be the one used in Touraine (around Tours and the Loire valley), but such value judgments are fraught with problems, and with the ever-increasing loss of lifelong attachments to a specific region and the growing importance of the national media, the future of specific \"regional\" accents is often difficult to predict. The French nation-state, which appeared after the 1789 French Revolution and Napoleon's empire, unified the French people in particular through the consolidation of the use of the French language. Hence, according to historian Eric Hobsbawm, \"the French language has been essential to the concept of 'France', although in 1789 50% of the French people did not speak it at all, and only 12 to 13% spoke it 'fairly' – in fact, even in oïl language zones, out of a central region, it was not usually spoken except in cities, and, even there, not always in the faubourgs [approximatively translatable to \"suburbs\"]. In the North as in the South of France, almost nobody spoke French.\" Hobsbawm highlighted the role of conscription, invented by Napoleon, and of the 1880s public instruction laws, which allowed to mix the various groups of France into a nationalist mold which created the French citizen and his consciousness of membership to a common nation, while the various \"patois\" were progressively eradicated.\n\nThere is some debate in today's France about the preservation of the French language and the influence of English (see Franglais), especially with regard to international business, the sciences, and popular culture. There have been laws (see Toubon law) enacted which require that all print ads and billboards with foreign expressions include a French translation and which require quotas of French-language songs (at least 40%) on the radio. There is also pressure, in differing degrees, from some regions as well as minority political or cultural groups for a measure of recognition and support for their regional languages.\n\nOnce the key international language in Europe, being the language of diplomacy from the 17th to mid-20th centuries, French lost most of its international significance to English in the 20th century, especially after World War II, with the rise of the United States as a dominant global superpower. A watershed was when the Treaty of Versailles, ending World War I, was written in both French and English. A small but increasing number of large multinational firms headquartered in France are using English as their working language even in their French operations, and to gain international recognition, French scientists often publish their work in English. These trends have met some resistance. In March 2006, President Chirac briefly walked out of an EU summit after Ernest-Antoine Seilliere began addressing the summit in English. And in February 2007, Forum Francophone International began organising protests against the \"linguistic hegemony\" of English in France and in support of the right of French workers to use French as their working language.\n\nFrench remains the second most-studied foreign language in the world, after English, and is a lingua franca in some regions, notably in Africa. The legacy of French as a living language outside Europe is mixed: it is nearly extinct in some former French colonies (Southeast Asia), while the language has changed to creoles, dialects or pidgins in the French departments in the West Indies, even though people there are still educated in standard French. On the other hand, many former French colonies have adopted French as an official language, and the total number of French speakers has increased, especially in Africa.\n\nIn the Canadian province of Quebec, different laws have promoted the use of French in administration, business and education since the 1970s. Bill 101, for example, obliges every child whose parents did not attend an English-speaking school to be educated in French. Efforts are also made, by the \"Office québécois de la langue française\" for instance, to make more uniform the variation of French spoken in Quebec as well as to preserve the distinctiveness of Quebec French.\n\nThere has been French emigration to the United States of America, Australia and South America, but the descendants of these immigrants have assimilated to the point that few of them still speak French. In the United States of America efforts are ongoing in Louisiana (\"see CODOFIL\") and parts of New England (particularly Maine) to preserve the language there.\n\nFrench has radically transformative sound changes, especially compared with other Romance languages such as Spanish, Portuguese, Italian and Romanian. Some examples:\n\nThe Vulgar Latin underlying French and most other Romance languages had seven vowels in stressed syllables (, similar to the vowels of American English \"khat pet pate peat caught coat coot\" respectively), and five in unstressed syllables (). Portuguese and Italian largely preserve this system, while Spanish has innovated only in converting to and to , resulting in a simple five-vowel system . In French, however, numerous sound changes resulted in a system with 12-14 oral vowels and 3-4 nasal vowels (see French phonology).\n\nPerhaps the most salient characteristic of French vowel history is the development of a strong stress accent — usually ascribed to the influence of the Germanic languages — that led to the disappearance of most unstressed vowels and to pervasive differences in the pronunciation of stressed vowels in originally open vs. closed syllables (where a closed syllable is a syllable that was followed by two or more consonants in Vulgar Latin, whereas an open syllable was followed by at most one consonant). It is commonly thought that stressed vowels in open syllables were lengthened, after which most of the long vowels turned into diphthongs. The loss of unstressed vowels, particularly those after the stress, ultimately produced the situation in Modern French where the accent is uniformly found on the last syllable of a word. (Ironically, in Modern French the stress accent is quite weak, with little difference between the pronunciation of stressed and unstressed vowels.)\n\nVulgar Latin had five vowels in unstressed syllables: . When these occurred word-finally, all were lost in Old French except for , which turned into a schwa (written \"e\"):\n\nA final schwa also developed when the loss of a final vowel produced a consonant cluster that was (at the time) unpronounceable when word-final, usually consisting of a consonant followed by \"l\", \"r\", \"m\" or \"n\" (VL = Vulgar Latin, OF = Old French):\n\nThe final schwa was eventually lost as well, but leaves its mark in the spelling, as well as in the pronunciation of final consonants, which normally remain pronounced if a schwa followed but are often lost otherwise: \"fait\" \"done (masc.)\" vs. \"faite\" \"done (fem.)\" .\n\nIntertonic vowels (i.e. unstressed vowels in interior syllables) were lost entirely, except for \"a\" in a syllable preceding the stress, which (originally) became a schwa (stressed syllable underlined in the Latin examples):\n\nAs noted above, stressed vowels developed quite differently depending on whether they occurred in an open syllable (followed by at most one consonant) or a closed syllable (followed by two or more consonants). In open syllables, the Vulgar Latin mid vowels all diphthongized, becoming Old French \"ie oi ue eu\" respectively (\"ue\" and \"eu\" later merged), while Vulgar Latin was raised to Old French \"e\". In closed syllables, all Vulgar Latin vowels originally remained unchanged, but eventually merged into , while became the front rounded vowel and was raised to . (These latter two changes occurred unconditionally, i.e. in both open and closed, stressed and unstressed syllables.)\n\nThe following table shows the outcome of stressed vowels in open syllables:\n\nThe following table shows the outcome of stressed vowels in closed syllables:\n\nLatin that ended up not followed by a vowel after the loss of vowels in unstressed syllables was ultimately absorbed into the preceding vowel, producing a series of nasal vowels. The developments are somewhat complex (even more so when a palatal element is also present in the same cluster, as in \"point, dot\" > \"point\" ). There are two separate cases, depending on whether the originally stood between vowels or next to a consonant (i.e. whether a preceding stressed vowel developed in an open syllable or closed syllable context, respectively). See the article on the phonological history of French for full details.\n\nLatin before a consonant ultimately was absorbed into the preceding vowel, producing a long vowel (indicated in Modern French spelling with a circumflex accent). For the most part, these long vowels are no longer pronounced distinctively long in Modern French (although long \"ê\" is still distinguished in Quebec French). In most cases, the formerly long vowel is pronounced identically to the formerly short vowel (e.g. \"mur\" \"wall\" and \"mûr\" \"mature\" are pronounced the same), but some pairs are distinguished by their quality (e.g. \"o\" vs. \"ô\" ).\n\nA separate, later vowel lengthening operates allophonically in Modern French, lengthening vowels before the final voiced fricatives (e.g. \"pais\" \"peace\" vs. \"pair\" \"even\").\n\nLate Vulgar Latin of the French area had a full complement of palatalized consonants, and more developed over time. Most of them, if preceded by a vowel, caused a sound (a yod, as in the words \"you\" or \"yard\") to appear before them, which combined with the vowel to produce a diphthong, eventually developing in various complex ways. A also appeared after them if they were originally followed by certain stressed vowels in open syllables (specifically, or ). If the appearance of the sound produced a triphthong, the middle vowel dropped out.\n\nExamples, showing the various sources of palatalized consonants:\n\nDuring the Old French period, \"l\" before a consonant became \"u\", producing new diphthongs, which eventually resolved into monophthongs, e.g. \"false\" > \"fausse\" . See the article on phonological history of French for details.\n\nThe sound changes involving consonants are less striking than those involving vowels. In some ways, French is actually relatively conservative. For example, it preserves initial \"pl-\", \"fl-\", \"cl-\", unlike Spanish, Portuguese and Italian, e.g. \"to rain\" > \"pleuvoir\" (Spanish \"llover\", Portuguese \"chover\", Italian \"piovere\").\n\nConsonants between vowels were subject to a process called lenition (a type of weakening). In French, this was more extensive than in Spanish, Portuguese or Italian. For example, between vowels went through the following stages in French: > > > no sound, whereas in Spanish only the first two changes happened, in Brazilian Portuguese only the first change happened, and in Italian no changes happened. Compare \"life\" > \"vie\" with Italian \"vita\", Portuguese \"vida\", Spanish \"vida\" . The following table shows the outcomes:\n\nAs described above, Late Vulgar Latin of the French area had an extensive series of palatalized consonants that developed from numerous sources. The resulting sounds tended to eject a /j/ before and/or after them, forming diphthongs that later developed in complex ways.\n\nLatin and in hiatus position (i.e., directly followed by another vowel) developed into /j/ in Vulgar Latin and then combined with the preceding consonant to form a palatalized consonant. All consonants could be palatalized in this fashion. The resulting consonants developed as follows (sometimes developing differently when they became final as a result of early loss of the following vowel):\n\n\n\n\nIn various consonant combinations involving or + another consonant, the or developed into /j/, which proceeded to palatalize the following consonant. Examples:\n\nIn some cases, loss of an intertonic vowel led to a similar sequence of /j/ or palatalized consonant + another consonant, which was palatalized in turn. Examples:\n\nAs a result of the pre-French loss of most final vowels, all consonants could potentially appear word-finally except for and (which were always followed by at least a schwa, stemming from either a final or a prop vowel). In Old French, however, all underlying voiced stops and fricatives were pronounced voiceless when word-final. This was clearly reflected in Old French spelling, e.g. the adjectives \"froit\" \"cold\" (feminine \"froide\"), \"vif\" \"lively\" (feminine \"vive\"), \"larc\" \"large\" (feminine \"large\"), and similarly in verbs, e.g. \"je doif\" \"I must\" vs. \"ils doivent\" \"they must\", \"je lef\" \"I may wash\" vs. \"ils levent\" \"they (may) wash\". Most of these alternations have since disappeared (due partly to morphological reshaping and partly to respelling once most final consonants were lost, as described below), but the adjectival alternation \"vif\" vs. \"vive\" (and similarly for other adjectives in \"-f\") is still present.\n\nStarting in the Middle French period, most final consonants were gradually lost. This proceeded in stages:\n\nThe final consonants normally subject to loss are , , , sometimes and , rarely (e.g. in \"clé\" < earlier and still occasional \"clef\"). The consonants and were normally preserved, while , , and did not occur (nor did the voiced obstruents ). A more recent countervailing tendency, however, is the restoration of some formerly lost final consonants, as in \"sens\", now pronounced but formerly , as still found in the expressions \"sens dessus dessous\" \"upside down\" and \"sens devant derrière\" \"back to front\". The restored consonant may stem either from the liaison pronunciation or the spelling and serves to reduce ambiguity: for example, is also the pronunciation of \"cent\" \"hundred\", \"sang\" \"blood\" and \"sans\" \"without\" (among others).\n\nFrench is noticeably different from most other Romance languages. Some of the changes have been attributed to substrate influence – i.e., to carry-over effects from Gaulish (Celtic) or superstrate influence from Frankish (Germanic). In practice, it is difficult to say with confidence which sound and grammar changes were due to substrate and superstrate influences, since many of the changes in French have parallels in other Romance languages, or are changes commonly undergone by many languages in the process of development. However, the following are likely candidates.\n\nIn phonology:\n\n\nIn other areas:\n\n"}
{"id": "54250546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54250546", "title": "Huston Huddleston", "text": "Huston Huddleston\n\nFloyd \"Huston\" Huddleston is an American writer and director, known for \"The Greatest Show Ever\" and \"Six Chicks and a Dead Guy\". He also founded the Hollywood Sci-Fi Museum in 2012 and the Hollywood Horror Museum in 2015.\n\nHuston is the son of Floyd Huddleston, an Oscar nominated songwriter, screenwriter, and television producer, and Nancy Adams, a singer.\n\nHuston Huddleston worked in London at Channel 4 as a writer, creating several TV pilots including \"The Wacky Dooley Show\", \"The Spinal Tap Reunion Special\", \"Vivien Leigh\", and the comedy \"The Greatest Show Ever\" directed by Joe Dante and starring Mickey Rooney. Huddleston wrote and directed \"Six Chicks and a Dead Guy\".\n\nHe co-wrote the second episode of the web series Star Trek Continues entitled \"Lolani\".\n\nHe is also the founder and CEO of The Hollywood Science Fiction Foundation, and the Hollywood Horror Foundation.\n\nHuston was arrested on April 24, 2018 and charged with possession of child pornography and other crimes, including contacting a minor with intent to commit a felony. He was held at the Pitchess Detention Center North Facility on $750,000 bail and pleaded not guilty on May 22, 2018. His court date was June 12, 2018. On June 21, Huddleston pled guilty to one misdemeanor charge of possessing child pornography.\n\n"}
{"id": "34237618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34237618", "title": "Isidoro de María", "text": "Isidoro de María\n\nIsidoro de María (1815–1906) was a Uruguayan writer, historian, journalist, politician and diplomat.\n\nIn 1833 he married Sinforosa Navarrete Artigas (a relative of José Gervasio Artigas) with whom he fathered several children, among others, writer and politician Pablo de María and folklorist poet Alcides de María.\n\nAmong other works he wrote:\n"}
{"id": "35486422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35486422", "title": "Jewish Women's Archive", "text": "Jewish Women's Archive\n\nThe Jewish Women's Archive (JWA) is a national non-profit organization whose mission is to document \"Jewish women's stories, elevate their voices, and inspire them to be agents of change.\"\n\nJWA was founded by Gail Twersky Reimer in 1995 in Brookline, Massachusetts with the goal of using the Internet to increase awareness of and provide access to the stories of American Jewish women. JWA makes a growing collection of information, exhibits, and resources available via its website. Its activities include the conception, production and dissemination of:\n\nJWA's most recent curriculum, Living the Legacy, focuses on the role of Jewish women in the Civil Rights Movement and labor movement, seeking to highlight their often-neglected but central role. Additional educational resources include 18 \"Go & Learn\" lesson plans, book and film guides, primary source materials and mother-daughter workshop materials. Previous curricula include Making Our Wilderness Bloom.\n\n\"Jewish Women: A Comprehensive Historical Encyclopedia\", edited by Paula Hyman and Dalia Ofer, is accessible for free via JWA's website. The encyclopedia features approximately 2,000 articles on the lives and achievements of Jewish women. Articles are also disseminated via Twitter.\n\nIn 2007 JWA produced \"Making Trouble\", a documentary film about three generations of female Jewish comedians and the complexity and challenges of their relationship to comedy, Judaism and gender. The film profiles Molly Picon, Fanny Brice, Sophie Tucker, Joan Rivers, Gilda Radner, and Wendy Wasserstein as well as contemporary comedians Judy Gold and Jackie Hoffman. The film has been screened at over 70 film festivals and other venues.\n\n\"Katrina's Jewish Voices\" is an online exhibit of photos, blog posts, podcasts, and email messages documenting the experience of the Jewish community during and after Hurricane Katrina, produced in collaboration with the Center for History and New Media at George Mason University In partnership with the Institute for Southern Jewish History, JWA conducted 85 interviews with members of the New Orleans, Baton Rouge, and Gulf Coast Jewish communities which are included in the exhibit. Other online exhibits include Jewish Women and the Feminist Revolution, History Makers: Women of Valor and Women Who Dared: Contemporary Activists.\n\n\"We Remember\" is an online collection of personal reflections and reminiscences about recently deceased notable American Jewish women. \"This Week in History\" is a calendar of events that matches the current date with events in Jewish women’s history.\n\nThe Executive Director of JWA is Judith Rosenbaum. Barbara Dobkin was the Founding Chair of JWA's Board. Brandeis University Professor Joyce Antler chairs the Academic Advisory Council.\n\n"}
{"id": "5227384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5227384", "title": "Joan Wallach Scott", "text": "Joan Wallach Scott\n\nJoan Wallach Scott (born December 18, 1941), is an American historian of France with contributions in gender history and intellectual history. She is a Professor Emerita in the School of Social Science in the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey.\n\nAmong her publications was the article \"\", published in 1986 in the \"American Historical Review.\" This article, \"undoubtedly one of the most widely read and cited articles in the journal's history\", was foundational in the formation of a field of gender history within the Anglo-American historical profession.\n\nShe was born Joan Wallach in Brooklyn, New York, the daughter of Lottie (\"née\" Tannenbaum) and Sam Wallach, high school teachers.\n\nBefore joining the Institute for Advanced Study, Scott taught in history departments at the University of Illinois at Chicago, Northwestern University, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and Brown University. At Brown University she was founding director of the Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women, and the Nancy Duke Lewis University Professor and professor of history. Scott has written that it was during her time at the Pembroke Center that she first started \"to think about theory and gender\". She serves on the editorial boards of \"Signs\", \"Differences\", \"History and Theory\", \"Redescriptions\" and, since January 2006, the \"Journal of Modern History\". In 2010, she helped to found \"History of the Present: A Journal of Critical History\".\n\nScott has also played a major role in the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) as the chair of its Committee on Academic Freedom and Tenure.\n\nScott's work has challenged the foundations of conventional historical practice, including the nature of historical evidence and historical experience and the role of narrative in the writing of history. Drawing on a range of philosophical thought, as well as on a rethinking of her own training as a labor historian, she has contributed to a transformation of the field of intellectual history. Her current work focuses on the vexed relationship of the particularity of gender to the universalizing force of democratic politics.\n\nScott's work has been mostly concerned with modern French history and with the history of gender.\n\nReflecting her interest in European working class history, in 1980 Scott co-wrote with the British historian Eric Hobsbawm in an article in \"Past and Present\" entitled \"Political Shoemakers\".\n\nIn her 1986 article \"Gender: A Useful Category of Historical Analysis\", Scott argued that studying gender not only explains women's history, but all history as well.\n\nTaking her own advice, Scott has sought to write such \"gendered\" histories in her books \"Gender and the Politics of History\" and \"Only Paradoxes to Offer: French Feminists and the Rights of Men\". In her 1988 book \"Gender and the Politics of History\", Scott expanded upon the themes she had introduced in \"Gender: A Useful Category of Historical Analysis\" to argue that gender was the \"knowledge of sexual differences\". Citing Foucault, she adopted his definition of \"knowledge\" as \"the understanding produced by cultures and societies of human relationships\".\n\nIn addition to her article \"Gender: A Useful Category of Historical Analysis\", Scott has published several books, which are widely reprinted and have been translated into several languages, including French, Japanese, Portuguese, and Korean. Her publications include \"The Glassworkers of Carmaux: French Craftsmen and Political Action in a Nineteenth Century City\" (Harvard University Press, 1974); \"Women, Work and Family\" (coauthored with Louise Tilly) (Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1978); \"Gender and the Politics of History\" (Columbia University Press, 1988); \"Only Paradoxes to Offer: French Feminists and the Rights of Man\" (Harvard University Press, 1996); \"Parité: Sexual Difference and the Crisis of French Universalism\" (University of Chicago Press, 2005) and \"The Politics of the Veil\" (Princeton University Press, 2007). Scott has also edited numerous other books and published countless articles. She is also one of the founding editors of the journal \"History of the Present\".\n\nShe has received various awards, accolades, and honorary degrees for her work, including the American Historical Association's Herbert Baxter Adams Prize, the Joan Kelly Memorial Prize, the Hans Sigrist Award for Outstanding Research in Gender Studies, and the Nancy Lyman Roelker Prize of the AHA for graduate mentorship. She holds honorary degrees from Brown University, SUNY Stony Brook, The University of Bergen (Norway), Harvard University, Princeton University, Concordia University and the University of Edinburgh.\n\nScott's influence within the Academy has been extensive. She has played an influential role in establishing the careers of a number of prominent academics, winning the prestigious Nancy Lyman Roelker Mentorship Award in 1995. Among the students who completed their dissertations under Scott's supervision are Leora Auslander at the University of Chicago, Mary Louise Roberts at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, and Dagmar Herzog at the City University of New York. The Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women at Brown University annually awards the Joan Wallach Scott Prize for an outstanding honors thesis in Gender and Sexuality Studies.\n\nPreviously married to Donald Scott, a professor of American history at CUNY, she is the mother of A. O. Scott, a film critic for \"The New York Times\", and the artist Lizzie Scott. She is the niece of actor Eli Wallach (her father was Eli's brother).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24067491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24067491", "title": "José Hipólito Raposo", "text": "José Hipólito Raposo\n\nJosé Hipólito Raposo (13 February 1885 in São Vicente da Beira – 26 August 1953) was a Portuguese politician, writer, lawyer and historian.\n\nHe was educated at the University of Coimbra before taking up practice as a lawyer. Part of a conservative monarchist group active within the intelligetsia at the time in 1911 he took a trip to Paris with his friend Alberto Monsaraz and whilst there they established contact with \"Action Française\" with whom they shared many aims. He joined with Monsaraz, António Sardinha, João do Amaral and José Adriano Pequito Rebelo in relaunching the monarchist journal \"A Nação Portuguesa\" in 1913. From this basis he became the founder of Integralismo Lusitano that same year along with Monsaraz and Sardinha. Raposo became known as one of the main ideologues of the new group and as a theorist he had a deep influence on Plínio Salgado who frequently referenced his works.\n\nIn the early 1920s Raposo also became close to a minor group known as \"Cruzada Non'Alvares\", which was the first group in Portugal to openly endorse Benito Mussolini and Italian fascism. Like others in the Integralist movement Raposo also keenly watched the development Movimento Nacional-Sindicalista but, although he personally had some sympathies towards the cause of national syndicalism, he did not follow the likes of Monsaraz in switching to the new movement. However despite his flirtations with fascism Raposo, unlike Sardinha, had no truck with the racialist theories associated with Nazism and similar ideologies and indeed considered the Black African populations of colonies such as Portuguese Angola and Portuguese Mozambique to be as much Portuguese as himself.\n\nHis influence faded following the emergence of António de Oliveira Salazar and his final attempt to push the integralist line, by launching a journal entitled \"Integralismo Lusitano\" with Luís de Almeida Braga in 1932 was not a success. Having initially been ambivalent in his attitudes towards Salazar, Raposo decided in 1940 that the dictator was ruining Portugal and published a book, \"Amar e Servir\", in which he savaged the \"Estado Novo\" founder.\n\nHis 1947 book \"Dona Luísa de Gusmão, duquesa e rainha (1613-1666)\" is still recognised as the standard biography of Luisa of Medina-Sidonia. As a writer he also published poetry, theatre criticism, fiction and essays on the academic traditions of Coimbra University.\n"}
{"id": "12808217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12808217", "title": "Lambert of St-Bertin", "text": "Lambert of St-Bertin\n\nLambert of St-Bertin was a French Benedictine chronicler and abbot.\n\nLambert was born about 1060 of a distinguished family, and, when still young, entered the French Benedictine abbey of St-Bertin. He afterwards visited several famous schools in France, having first laid the foundation of his subsequent learning by the study in his own monastery of grammar, theology and music. For some time he filled the office of prior, and in 1095 was chosen abbot at once by the monks of St-Bertin and by the canons of St-Omer. He was thus drawn into closer relations with Cluny, and instituted through the Cluniac monks many reforms in his somewhat deteriorated monastery. Needless to say, he encountered no little opposition to his efforts, but, thanks to his extraordinary energy, he finally secured acceptance for his views, and rehabilitated the financial position of the monastery. He was a friend of St. Anselm and exchanged verses, still extant, with the poet Reginald of Canterbury (ed. Libermann in \"Neues Archiv der Gesellschaft fur altere Geschichte\", XIII, 1888, pp. 528; 531-34). He died on 22 June 1125, at St-Bertin.\n\nEven during his lifetime, Lambert was lauded in glowing terms for his great learning by an admirer —not a monk of St-Bertin— in the \"Tractatus de moribus Lamberti Abbatis S. Beretini\" (ed. Holder-Egger in \"Monumenta German. Histor. SS.\", XV, 2, 946-53). This work mentions several otherwise unknown writings of Lambert, e.g. \"Sermones de Vetere Testamento\", also studies on free will, the Divine prescience, original sin, origin of the soul and questions of physical science.\nAlthough the two are often confused, he is not identical with Lambert, the Canon of St. Omer who wrote the famous \"Liber Floridus\", a kind of encyclopedia of Biblical, chronological, astronomical, geographical, theological, philosophical and natural history subjects, which was completed in 1120.\n\n"}
{"id": "4043275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4043275", "title": "Late modernity", "text": "Late modernity\n\nLate modernity (or liquid modernity) is the characterization of today's highly developed global societies as the continuation (or development) of modernity rather than as an element of the succeeding era known as postmodernity, or the postmodern.\n\nIntroduced as 'liquid' modernity by the Polish-British sociologist Zygmunt Bauman, late modernity is marked by the global capitalist economies with their increasing privatisation of services and by the information revolution.\n\nSocial theorists and sociologists such as Scott Lash, Ulrich Beck, Zygmunt Bauman and Anthony Giddens maintain (against postmodernists) that modernization continues into the contemporary era, which is thus better conceived as a radical state of late modernity. On technological and social changes since the 1960s, the concept of \"late modernity\" proposes that contemporary societies are a clear continuation of modern institutional transitions and cultural developments. Such authors talk about a reflexive modernization process: in Giddens' words, \"social practices are constantly examined and reformed in the light of incoming information about those very practices, thus constitutively altering their character\". Modernity now tends to be self-referring, instead of being defined largely in opposition to traditionalism, as with classical modernity.\n\nAnthony Giddens does not dispute that important changes have occurred since \"high\" modernity, but he argues that we have not truly abandoned modernity. Rather, the modernity of contemporary society is a developed, radicalized, 'late' modernity—but still modernity, not postmodernity. In such a perspective, postmodernism appears only as a hyper-technological version of modernity.<nowiki>'</nowiki>\n\nThe subject is constructed in late modernity against the backdrop of a fragmented world of competing and contrasting identities and life-style cultures. The framing matrix of the late modern personality is the ambiguous way the fluid social relations of late modernity impinge on the individual, producing a reflexive and multiple self.\n\nZygmunt Bauman, who introduced the idea of liquid modernity, wrote that its characteristics are about the individual, namely increasing feelings of uncertainty and the privatization of ambivalence. It is a kind of chaotic continuation of modernity, where a person can shift from one social position to another in a fluid manner. Nomadism becomes a general trait of the 'liquid modern' man as he flows through his own life like a tourist, changing places, jobs, spouses, values and sometimes moresuch as political or sexual orientationexcluding himself from traditional networks of support, while also freeing himself from the restrictions or requirements those networks impose.\n\nBauman stressed the new burden of responsibility that fluid modernism placed on the individualtraditional patterns would be replaced by self-chosen ones. Entry into the globalized society was open to anyone with their own stance and the ability to fund it, in a similar way as was the reception of travellers at the old-fashioned caravanserai. The result is a normative mindset with emphasis on shifting rather than on stayingon provisional in lieu of permanent (or 'solid') commitmentwhich (the new style) can lead a person astray towards a prison of their own existential creation.\n\n"}
{"id": "4455050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4455050", "title": "List of archaeological periods (Mesoamerica)", "text": "List of archaeological periods (Mesoamerica)\n\nThe chronology of Pre-Columbian Mesoamerica is usually divided into the following eras:\n\nOne of the most enduring classifications of archaeological periods & cultures was established in Gordon Willey and Philip Phillips' 1958 book \"Method and Theory in American Archaeology.\" They divided the archaeological record in the Americas into 5 phases. These are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45034331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45034331", "title": "Luka Kyzya", "text": "Luka Kyzya\n\nLuke E. Kyzya () (8 February 1912 in Zhyhove, Seredyna-Buda Raion, Sumy Oblast – 29 December 1974 in Kyiv) - Ukrainian politician, a member of the guerrillas, researcher of the history of the Soviet-German war, Doktor nauk, diplomat, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. Permanent Representative of Ukraine to the United Nations.\n\nLuke Kyzya graduated from Chernihiv Teachers' Institute (1940) and National Pedagogical Dragomanov University (1948). Doktor Nauk in History.\n\nIn 1941 - 1943 - he was Commissioner guerrilla group.\n\nFrom 1943 to 1944 - He commanded of the guerrilla group.\n\nFrom 1943 to 1944 - he was Commissioner partisan unit.\n\nIn 1944 - he worked Secretary underground Rivne Regional Committee of the Communist Party of Ukraine.\n\nFrom 1944 to 1951 - he headed of the Republican exhibition \"Ukraine as partisans against the Nazi invaders.\"\n\nFrom 1951 to 1956 - he was Chairman of the Ukrainian Society for Cultural Relations with foreign countries, Associate Professor Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv.\n\nFrom 1956 to 1959 - Deputy Minister of Higher and Secondary Specialized Education of the Ukrainian SSR.\n\nFrom 1959 to 1960 - he was senior researcher at the Institute of History of the Ukrainian SSR.\n\nFrom 1960 to 1961 - he headed of the Department of International Organizations and member of the board of the Soviet Foreign Ministry.\n\nOn July 29, 1961 and 1964 - he was permanent representative of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic to the United Nations.\n\nFrom 1965 to 1967 - Deputy Minister of Higher and Specialized Secondary Education.\n\nFrom 1967 to 1974 - he was senior researcher at the Institute of History of the Ukrainian SSR.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11542612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11542612", "title": "Marcin Bielski", "text": "Marcin Bielski\n\nMarcin Bielski (or \"Wolski\"; 1495 – 18 December 1575) was a Polish soldier, historian, chronicler, renaissance satirical poet, writer and translator. His son, , royal secretary to king Sigismund III Vasa, was also a historian and poet. He was born of noble parentage on the patrimonial estate of Biała (whence the family name), Pajęczno County, in the Polish province of Sieradz. His alternate surname \"Wolski\" derives from his estate at Wola. One of two Polish writers of the same name, he was the first to use the Polish language, hence his designation as the father of Polish prose.\n\nBielski was educated at the University of Kraków, founded by Casimir the Great in 1364, and spent some time with the military governor of that city. He served in the army in the wars against the Wallachians and Tatars, and participated in the Battle of Obertyn (Galicia) in 1531.\n\nHe was the author of several works, including:\n\nAfter Bielski's death, several satirical poems by him were published:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29953400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29953400", "title": "Martin Grene", "text": "Martin Grene\n\nMartin Grene (1616–1667), was an English Jesuit.\n\nGrene, son of George Grene, probably a member of one of the Yorkshire families of the name, by his wife Jane Tempest, is said by Southwell to have been born in 1616 at Kilkenny in Ireland, to which country his parents had retired from their native land on account of the persecution; but the provincial's returns of 1642 and 1655 expressly vouch for his being a native of Kent. He was the elder brother of Christopher Grene. After studying humanities in the college of the English Jesuits at St. Omer, he was admitted to the society in 1638. In 1642 he was a professor in the college at Liege, and he held important offices in other establishments belonging to the English Jesuits on the continent.\n\nIn 1653 he was stationed in Oxfordshire. He was solemnly professed of the four vows on 3 December 1654. After passing twelve years on the mission he was recalled to Watten, near Saint-Omer, to take charge of the novices. He died there on 2 October 1667, leaving behind him the reputation of an eminent classic, historian, philosopher, and divine.\n\nHis works are: \n"}
{"id": "32037481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32037481", "title": "Muhammad bin Ali Rawandi", "text": "Muhammad bin Ali Rawandi\n\nMuhammad bin Ali Rawandi (), was a Persian historian who wrote the \"Rahat al-sudur wa ayat al-surur\" during the fall of the Great Seljuk Empire and the subsequent invasion by the Kharwarzmian empire.\n\nRawandi was from a scholarly family and studied Hanafi fikh in Hamadhan from 1174 to 1184. As a calligrapher, Rawandi was brought to court to craft a \"Quran\" for Toghrul III and gained the sultan's favor. After Toghrul's incarceration, Rawandi gained the patronage of Shihab al-Din al-Kashani, who urged him to write the \"Rahat al-sudur\". Rawandi had intended to dedicate his book to Süleymanshah II, but dedicated it to Kaykhusraw I, following the latter's accession as Sultan of Rum. Later the \"Rahat al-sudur\" was translated into Turkish during the reign of Murad II.\n\nIn 1921, the \"Rahat al-sudur\" was published by Muhammad Iqbal. It was recognized by Iqbal, Edward G. Browne and Mirza Muhammad Qazwini as a source in other texts namely, \"Jaml al-tawarikh\", \"Rawdat al-safa\" of Mir Kwand and \"Tarikh-i guzida\" of Hamd Allah al-Mustawfi.\n"}
{"id": "25064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25064", "title": "Posthumanism", "text": "Posthumanism\n\nPosthumanism or post-humanism (meaning \"after humanism\" or \"beyond humanism\") is a term with at least seven definitions according to philosopher Francesca Ferrando:\n\nPhilosopher Ted Schatzki suggests there are two varieties of posthumanism of the philosophical kind:\n\nOne, which he calls 'objectivism', tries to counter the overemphasis of the subjective or intersubjective that pervades humanism, and emphasises the role of the nonhuman agents, whether they be animals and plants, or computers or other things.\n\nA second prioritizes practices, especially social practices, over individuals (or individual subjects) which, they say, constitute the individual.\n\nThere may be a third kind of posthumanism, propounded by the philosopher Herman Dooyeweerd. Though he did not label it as 'posthumanism', he made an extensive and penetrating immanent critique of Humanism, and then constructed a philosophy that presupposed neither Humanist, nor Scholastic, nor Greek thought but started with a different religious ground motive. Dooyeweerd prioritized law and meaningfulness as that which enables humanity and all else to exist, behave, live, occur, etc. \"\"Meaning\" is the \"being\" of all that has been \"created\",\" Dooyeweerd wrote, \"and the nature even of our selfhood.\" Both human and nonhuman alike function subject to a common 'law-side', which is diverse, composed of a number of distinct law-spheres or \"aspects\". The temporal being of both human and non-human is multi-aspectual; for example, both plants and humans are bodies, functioning in the biotic aspect, and both computers and humans function in the formative and lingual aspect, but humans function in the aesthetic, juridical, ethical and faith aspects too. The Dooyeweerdian version is able to incorporate and integrate both the objectivist version and the practices version, because it allows nonhuman agents their own subject-functioning in various aspects and places emphasis on aspectual functioning.\n\nIhab Hassan, theorist in the academic study of literature, once stated:\n\nThis view predates most currents of posthumanism which have developed over the late 20th century in somewhat diverse, but complementary, domains of thought and practice. For example, Hassan is a known scholar whose theoretical writings expressly address postmodernity in society. Beyond postmodernist studies, posthumanism has been developed and deployed by various cultural theorists, often in reaction to problematic inherent assumptions within humanistic and enlightenment thought.\n\nTheorists who both complement and contrast Hassan include Michel Foucault, Judith Butler, cyberneticists such as Gregory Bateson, Warren McCullouch, Norbert Wiener, Bruno Latour, Cary Wolfe, Elaine Graham, N. Katherine Hayles, Benjamin H. Bratton, Donna Haraway, Peter Sloterdijk, Stefan Lorenz Sorgner, Evan Thompson, Francisco Varela, Humberto Maturana and Douglas Kellner. Among the theorists are philosophers, such as Robert Pepperell, who have written about a \"posthuman condition\", which is often substituted for the term \"posthumanism\".\n\nPosthumanism differs from classical humanism by relegating humanity back to one of many natural species, thereby rejecting any claims founded on anthropocentric dominance. According to this claim, humans have no inherent rights to destroy nature or set themselves above it in ethical considerations \"a priori\". Human knowledge is also reduced to a less controlling position, previously seen as the defining aspect of the world. Human rights exist on a spectrum with animal rights and posthuman rights. The limitations and fallibility of human intelligence are confessed, even though it does not imply abandoning the rational tradition of humanism.\n\nProponents of a posthuman discourse, suggest that innovative advancements and emerging technologies have transcended the traditional model of the human, as proposed by Descartes among others associated with philosophy of the Enlightenment period. In contrast to humanism, the discourse of posthumanism seeks to redefine the boundaries surrounding modern philosophical understanding of the human. Posthumanism represents an evolution of thought beyond that of the contemporary social boundaries and is predicated on the seeking of truth within a postmodern context. In so doing, it rejects previous attempts to establish 'anthropological universals' that are imbued with anthropocentric assumptions.\n\nThe philosopher Michel Foucault placed posthumanism within a context that differentiated humanism from enlightenment thought. According to Foucault, the two existed in a state of tension: as humanism sought to establish norms while Enlightenment thought attempted to transcend all that is material, including the boundaries that are constructed by humanistic thought. Drawing on the Enlightenment’s challenges to the boundaries of humanism, posthumanism rejects the various assumptions of human dogmas (anthropological, political, scientific) and takes the next step by attempting to change the nature of thought about what it means to be human. This requires not only decentering the human in multiple discourses (evolutionary, ecological, technological) but also examining those discourses to uncover inherent humanistic, anthropocentric, normative notions of humanness and the concept of the human.\n\nPosthumanistic discourse aims to open up spaces to examine what it means to be human and critically question the concept of \"the human\" in light of current cultural and historical contexts In her book \"How We Became Posthuman\", N. Katherine Hayles, writes about the struggle between different versions of the posthuman as it continually co-evolves alongside intelligent machines. Such coevolution, according to some strands of the posthuman discourse, allows one to extend their subjective understandings of real experiences beyond the boundaries of embodied existence. According to Hayles's view of posthuman, often referred to as technological posthumanism, visual perception and digital representations thus paradoxically become ever more salient. Even as one seeks to extend knowledge by deconstructing perceived boundaries, it is these same boundaries that make knowledge acquisition possible. The use of technology in a contemporary society is thought to complicate this relationship.\n\nHayles discusses the translation of human bodies into information (as suggested by Hans Moravec) in order to illuminate how the boundaries of our embodied reality have been compromised in the current age and how narrow definitions of humanness no longer apply. Because of this, according to Hayles, posthumanism is characterized by a loss of subjectivity based on bodily boundaries. This strand of posthumanism, including the changing notion of subjectivity and the disruption of ideas concerning what it means to be human, is often associated with Donna Haraway’s concept of the cyborg. However, Haraway has distanced herself from posthumanistic discourse due to other theorists’ use of the term to promote utopian views of technological innovation to extend the human biological capacity (even though these notions would more correctly fall into the realm of transhumanism).\n\nWhile posthumanism is a broad and complex ideology, it has relevant implications today and for the future. It attempts to redefine social structures without inherently humanly or even biological origins, but rather in terms of social and psychological systems where consciousness and communication could potentially exist as unique disembodied entities. Questions subsequently emerge with respect to the current use and the future of technology in shaping human existence, as do new concerns with regards to language, symbolism, subjectivity, phenomenology, ethics, justice and creativity.\n\nSociologist James Hughes comments that there is considerable confusion between the two terms. In the introduction to their book on post- and transhumanism, Robert Ranisch and Stefan Sorgner address the source of this confusion, stating that posthumanism is often used as an umbrella term that includes both transhumanism and critical posthumanism.\n\nAlthough both subjects relate to the future of humanity, they differ in their view of anthropocentrism. Pramod Nayar, author of \"Posthumanism\", states that posthumanism has two main branches: ontological and critical. Ontological posthumanism is synonymous with transhumanism. The subject is regarded as “an intensification of humanism.” Transhumanism retains humanism’s focus on the homo sapien as the center of the world but also considers technology to be an integral aid to human progression. Critical posthumanism, however, is opposed to these views. Critical posthumanism “rejects both human exceptionalism (the idea that humans are unique creatures) and human instrumentalism (that humans have a right to control the natural world).” These contrasting views on the importance of human beings are the main distinctions between the two subjects. \n\nTranshumanism is also more ingrained in popular culture than critical posthumanism, especially in science fiction. The term is referred to by Pramod Nayar as \"the pop posthumanism of cinema and pop culture.\" \n\nSome critics have argued that all forms of posthumanism, including transhumanism, have more in common than their respective proponents realize. Linking these different approaches, Paul James suggests that 'the key political problem is that, in effect, the position allows the human as a category of being to flow down the plughole of history':\n\nHowever, some posthumanists in the humanities and the arts are critical of transhumanism (the brunt of Paul James's criticism), in part, because they argue that it incorporates and extends many of the values of Enlightenment humanism and classical liberalism, namely scientism, according to performance philosopher Shannon Bell:\nWhile many modern leaders of thought are accepting of nature of ideologies described by posthumanism, some are more skeptical of the term. Donna Haraway, the author of \"A Cyborg Manifesto\", has outspokenly rejected the term, though acknowledges a philosophical alignment with posthumanism. Haraway opts instead for the term of companion species, referring to nonhuman entities with which humans coexist.\n\nQuestions of race, some argue, are suspiciously elided within the \"turn\" to posthumanism. Noting that the terms \"post\" and \"human\" are already loaded with racial meaning, critical theorist Zakiyyah Iman Jackson argues that the impulse to move \"beyond\" the human within posthumanism too often ignores \"praxes of humanity and critiques produced by black people\", including Frantz Fanon and Aime Cesaire to Hortense Spillers and Fred Moten. Interrogating the conceptual grounds in which such a mode of “beyond” is rendered legible and viable, Jackson argues that it is important to observe that \"blackness conditions and constitutes the very nonhuman disruption and/or disruption\" which posthumanists invite. In other words, given that race in general and blackness in particular constitutes the very terms through which human/nonhuman distinctions are made, for example in enduring legacies of scientific racism, a gesture toward a “beyond” actually “returns us to a Eurocentric transcendentalism long challenged”.\n\n"}
{"id": "48610944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48610944", "title": "Problem of the creator of God", "text": "Problem of the creator of God\n\nThe problem of the creator of God is the controversy regarding the hypothetical cause responsible for the existence of God, presuming God exists. A common challenge to theistic propositions of a creator deity as a necessary first-cause explanation for the universe is the question: \"Who created God?\". It contests the proposition that the universe cannot exist without a creator by asserting that the creator of the universe must have the same restrictions. This, in turn, may lead to a problem of infinite regress wherein each newly presumed creator of a creator is itself presumed to have its own creator.\n\nSome faith traditions have such an element as part of their doctrine. Jainism posits that the universe is eternal and has always existed. In Mormonism it is believed that the God of this Earth was once a mortal human, who had a father of his own. Ismailism rejects the idea of God as the \"first cause\", due to the doctrine of God's incomparability and source of any existence including abstract objects.\n\nOsho writes:\nJohn Humphreys writes:\nIn \"The God Book\", Deist Michael Arnheim writes:\nAlan Lurie writes:\nDefenders of religion have countered that the question is improper:\n\nIt is also argued that the question becomes irrelevant if the Universe is presumed to have circular time instead of linear time.\n\n"}
{"id": "55483002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55483002", "title": "Rebe Taylor", "text": "Rebe Taylor\n\nRebe Taylor is an English-born Australian historian and author specialising in southeast Australian indigenous peoples and European settlement. \n\nTaylor was born in London and came to live in Adelaide, South Australia with her family at the age of five. As a child she had several film roles, including in \"For the Term of His Natural Life\" (miniseries) (1983) and the Scott Hicks film, \"Sebastian and the Sparrow\" (1988). \n\nTaylor studied for her MA in History at the University of Melbourne, graduating in 1996. She completed her PhD at the Australian National University in 2004.\n\nIn 2015 she was awarded the inaugural Coral Taylor Fellowship by the State Library of New South Wales. At the end of her two-year term she gave the inaugural Coral Taylor Lecture titled \"The untold story of the Wedge Collection\" on John Helder Wedge.\n\nIn April 2018 she became Senior Research Fellow at the College of Arts, Law and Education at the University of Tasmania.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31560585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31560585", "title": "Richard N. Côté", "text": "Richard N. Côté\n\nRichard N. Côté ( ; June 3, 1945 – February 10, 2015) was an American author, social historian, and lecturer.\n\nBorn June 3, 1945 in Waterbury, Connecticut, to Norman W. and Anne M. (Richall) Côté, he was educated at The Milford School and graduated in 1963 from Amity Regional Senior High School in Woodbridge. One of two children, Côté had an \"adventure-filled\" childhood. Côté's Dublin-born mother and his Québec-born grandmother, Gertrude Beaudoin Côté, often read to him. He quickly became fascinated with The Harvard Classics and read the complete Encyclopædia Britannica in his teen years. His mother, a part-time journalist, let him use her typewriter, and by the age of twelve, he was typing most of his school papers.\n\nCôté attended Butler University in Indianapolis, Indiana where he majored in political science and journalism and became passionate about photography, Greek and Roman mythology, and writing. In 1964 he was inducted into Sigma Delta Chi, the national journalism fraternity, and was awarded a scholarship for his work as the university's newspaper photographer.\n\nAfter college, Côté served six years in the United States Air Force. He spent a year at Mather Air Force Base, California, and then volunteered to serve in the Vietnam War. At Da Nang Air Base he served both as a USAF combat news photographer and as a munitions specialist from 1966 to 1967. He spent his final four years in the military as a photographer at Hahn Air Base, Germany.\n\nFor enjoyment, he traveled worldwide and collected 19th century engravings and paintings by contemporary Southern artists. He was active in the right to die movement and served as a spokesman for assisted-suicide activist George Exoo.\n\nCôté died February 10, 2015, in Charleston, South Carolina, after falling down stairs at his home. He was 69.\n\nWhile living in Wisconsin in the 1970s, he became interested with the history of Manitowoc County, first settled by German and Polish immigrants in the mid-nineteenth century. His ability to read German Fraktur handwriting led to the transcription of numerous volumes of early German Lutheran church records and tombstones.\n\nAfter moving to South Carolina in 1979, he was recruited by the South Carolina Historical Society. There he spent four years serving as an archivist, librarian, and grant writer. In 1984 he was recruited to establish a high-precision public records microfilming system for the County of Charleston. He also researched the lives of 18th- and 19th-century Southern planters, their homes, and their slaves.\n\nIn the 1990s he turned to more contemporary subjects, including sexual harassment and abuse, motorcycle gangs and drug dealing, entertainment personalities, the American circus industry, religious cults, and deprogrammers. He also authored or co-authored novels based on family relationships, human cloning, politics, and addiction to psychics.\n\nHis three biographies, \"Mary's World: Love, War, and Family Ties in Nineteenth-century Charleston\" (1999); \"Theodosia Burr Alston: Portrait of a Prodigy\" (2002) and \"Strength and Honor: The Life of Dolley Madison\" (2004) brought him national recognition. In 2008, \"Strength and Honor\" was chosen to be translated into the Braille language for the blind by the Library of Congress.\n\nIn 1991, after being commissioned to write a documentary history of the South Carolina State Ports Authority, that agency insisted that all references to the port's early use for the slave trade be censored, and that local opposition to its expansion be deleted. Côté demanded that his name be removed from the book. \"Agreeing to undertake a scholarly writing project is not the same as agreeing to be a literary whore,\" he said.\n\nIn 1995, Côté was hired by National Press Books through his agent, Robert Eringer, to work as a literary collaborator with Edward Lee Howard, a former CIA spy who defected to Russia after being accused of providing classified information to the Russians. After intensive research and ten days' interviews with Howard in Moscow, Côté returned and wrote Safe House, an authoritative account of Howard's claim to innocence. Unbeknownst to Côté at the time, Eringer was secretly working for the FBI and was using him to acquire information the agency could use against Howard.\n\nIn 2004, he received the Bobby Gilmer Moss Award in History from the Daughters of the American Revolution for his outstanding contributions to South Carolina history. He has been chosen as a Featured Author by the South Carolina Book Festival; the Carl Sandberg Celebration of Books and Authors in Hendersonville, North Carolina; the Spoleto Festival of the Arts in Charleston, South Carolina; and the Daughters of the American Revolution Museum, Washington.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1804168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1804168", "title": "Richard N. Frye", "text": "Richard N. Frye\n\nRichard Nelson Frye (January 10, 1920 – March 27, 2014) was an American scholar of Iranian and Central Asian Studies, and Aga Khan Professor Emeritus of Iranian Studies at Harvard University. His professional areas of interest were Iranian philology and the history of Iran and Central Asia before 1000 CE.\n\nBorn in Birmingham, Alabama, to a family of immigrants from Sweden, \"Freij\" had four children, his second marriage being to an Iranian-Assyrian scholar, Eden Naby, from Urmia, Iran who teaches at Columbia University. He spoke fluent Russian, German, Arabic, Persian, Pashto, French, Uzbek, and Turkish, and had extensive knowledge of Avestan, Pahlavi, Sogdian, and other Iranian languages and dialects, both extinct and current.\n\nAlthough Frye is mostly known for his works about Iran, the Iranian peoples and Iranian Central Asia, the scope of his studies was much wider and includes Byzantine, Caucasian, and Ottoman history, Eastern Turkistan, Assyria and the Assyrian people, ancient and medieval Iranian art, Islamic art, Sufism, Chinese and Japanese archeology, and a variety of Iranian and non-Iranian languages including Avestan, Old Persian, Middle Persian, Parthian, Sogdian, Khotanese, and Bactrian, New Persian, Arabic, Turkish, and even Chinese, beside research languages which include French, German, Italian, and Russian.\n\nFrye was born in Birmingham, Alabama. He first attended the University of Illinois, where he received a BA in history and philosophy in 1939. He received his MA from Harvard University in 1940 and his PhD from Harvard in 1946, in Asiatic history.\n\nFrye served with the Office of Strategic Services during World War II. He was stationed in Afghanistan and traveled extensively in the Middle East, Central Asia, and South Asia. In 1948 he visited Sar Masshad, and was the first European to find and report the existence of the Gur-e Dokhtar tomb (meaning \"Tomb of the Maiden\" in Persian.\n\nHe returned to Harvard to teach. He was a member of the Harvard faculty from 1948 until 1990. He then became a professor emeritus at Harvard. He also served as faculty, guest lecturer, or visiting scholar at:\n\nProfessor Frye helped found the Center for Middle Eastern Studies at Harvard, the first Iranian studies program in America. He also served as Director of the \"Asia Institute\" in Shiraz (1970–1975), was on the Board of Trustees of the Pahlavi University at Shiraz (1974–78), and Chairman, \"Committee on Inner Asian Studies\", at Harvard (1983–89), and as Editor of the \"Bulletin of the Asia Institute\" (1970–1975 and 1987–99).\n\nAmong Frye's students were Annemarie Schimmel, Oleg Grabar, Frank Huddle (former US Ambassador to Tajikistan), John Limbert, and Michael Crichton, whose Hollywood film The 13th Warrior is loosely based on Frye's translation of Ibn Fadlan's account of his travels up the river Volga.\n\nFrye was also directly responsible for inviting Iranian scholars as distinguished visiting fellows to Harvard University, under a fellowship program initiated by Henry Kissinger. Examples of such guests include Mehdi Haeri Yazdi (1923–1999), Sadegh Choubak, Jalal al Ahmad, and others.\n\nFrye felt that Persian civilization was under-appreciated by other Muslims, and Arab Muslims in particular. Frye wrote:\n\nIn August 1953, shortly before the fall of Mosaddegh, prominent Iranian linguist Ali Akbar Dehkhoda gave Frye the title: \"Irandoost\" (meaning \"a friend of Iran\").\n\nIn addition, Frye was a long standing supporter of Assyrian continuity; the historical and ancestral connection between modern Assyrians and the Ancient Mesopotamians.\n\nA ceremony was held in Iran on June 27, 2004 to pay tribute to the six-decade endeavors of Professor Frye on his lifetime contribution to Iranian Studies, research work on the Persian language, and the history and culture of Iran.\n\nIn his will, Professor Frye expressed his wish to be buried next to the Zayandeh River in Isfahan. This request was approved by Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in September 2007.\nTwo other American scholars of Iranian Studies, Arthur Pope and Phyllis Ackerman, are already buried there.\nIn 2010, a house in Isfahan was gifted by Iranian government to Professor Frye in recognition of his services to Iranian studies.\n\nOn June 8, 2014, the family of Dr. Frye decided to cremate his remains after waiting more than 2 months for official Iranian permission to bury him in Isfahan. His death coincided with growing resentment by Iranian hard-liners over signs of reconciliation with the United States after decades of estrangement. It is not clear what the family intended to do with his ashes. \n\nFrye was a popular public speaker at numerous Iran-related gatherings. In 2005, he spoke at UCLA, encouraging the Iranians present to cherish their culture and identity. In 2004, he spoke at an architectural conference in Tehran, expressing his dismay at hasty modernization that ignores the beauties of traditional Iranian architectural styles (see Architecture of Tehran).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9464198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9464198", "title": "Robert Carl-Heinz Shell", "text": "Robert Carl-Heinz Shell\n\nRobert Carl-Heinz Shell (31 Jan 1949 - 3 Feb 2015) was a South African author, scholar, and professor of African Studies. He was born in the Cape Province of South Africa and lived in the United States in the 1980s and 1990s. After the fall of apartheid he returned to South Africa. Toward the end of his life he lived in the Western Cape with his wife Sandy Rowoldt Shell, who is the head of the African Studies Library at University of Cape Town.\n\nProfessor Shell has attended more than 41 international workshops where he has delivered papers on several topics but notably on slavery, Islam and HIV/AIDS. In September 2004 he delivered the keynote address at the AGM of SANTA (SA National Tuberculosis Association) in Port Elizabeth, South Africa with a talk entitled “Infectious diseases in South Africa: HIV/AIDS and TB, some statistical trends”. He has also appeared in Washington, D.C., where he addressed both the House Select Committee on African affairs and the House Select Committee on International Relations on the global Aids pandemic.\n\nProfessor Shell obtained his undergraduate and Honours degrees at University of Cape Town in the 1970s. He then went to the U.S. to complete his master's degree at University of Rochester and in 1986 he completed his PhD at Yale University. For his doctoral studies at Yale, completed in 1986, Shell wrote the dissertation entitled “Slavery at the Cape of Good Hope, 1680–1731” under the advisorship of famed South African historian, Leonard M. Thompson\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Robert Shell's account is slightly different. He argues that Christianity's change of heart only applied to baptized slaves, and the issue of whether slaves should be baptized was very contentious as late as 1618 when it was raised at the Synod of Dort, the last meeting of Protestant theologians from Great Britain and the Continent. Although the delegates could not agree on a single policy, Shell maintains, their writings ended or limited the trade in Christian slaves.\"\n"}
{"id": "605860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=605860", "title": "Robert Mannyng", "text": "Robert Mannyng\n\nRobert Mannyng (or Robert de Brunne; 1275 – c. 1338) was an English chronicler and Gilbertine monk. Mannyng provides a surprising amount of information about himself in his two known works, \"Handlyng Synne\" and \"Mannyng's Chronicle\". In these two works, Mannyng tells of his residencies at the Gilbertine houses of Sempringham (near Bourne) and Sixhills, and also at the Gilbertine priory at Cambridge, St Edmund’s.\n\nHis name, Robert de Brunne, indicates that he came from the place then known as Brunne (Bourne, Lincolnshire), thirteen kilometres south of Sempringham Priory, the mother house of the Gilbertine Order. Both places lie on the western edge of the Lincolnshire fens. He entered the house in 1288, was trained there and moved to Cambridge, probably as part of his training. He was moved on to Sixhills priory at (TF1787) in the Lincolnshire Wolds near Market Rasen. He will have spent most of his life at Sempringham, despite the frequent modern assertion that he was a monk of Bourne Abbey. The latter was an Arrouasian house, later regarded as Augustinian.\n\nThis interpretation is supported by Mannyng's introduction to \"Handlyng Synne\", in which he says that he had been at the abbey fifteen years: ten in the time of John Camelton (Hamilton) (the prior at Sempringham from c1298 to 1312), and five winters with Hamilton's successor, John Clyntone. However, he clearly retained an interest in the people of Bourne, as he addressed \"Handlyng Synne\" \"to all Christian men under the sun and to good men of Bourne and specially ... the fellowship of Sempringham\".\n\n\"Handlyng Synne\" (1303) is a twelve thousand line devotional or penitential piece, written in Middle English rhymed couplets, deriving many of its exempla from the Anglo-Norman \"Manuel des Peches\" of William of Waddington. \n\n\"Mannyng's Chronicle\", supposedly completed in 1338, translates Wace's \"Roman de Brut\" for British history from the Anglo-Norman, before translating Piers Langtoft's (Peter of Langtoft) \"Chronicle\" for English and post-Conquest history.\n\nMannyng was primarily a historiographer, and his significance lies in his participation in the tri-lingual tradition of writing history. His work in Middle English is part of a larger movement at the beginning of the fourteenth century towards the replacement of Latin and Anglo-Norman by written works in Middle English, but is not groundbreaking. It is as a history writer, in particular, through his indebtedness to the great twelfth century histories of Henry of Huntingdon, William of Malmesbury, and Geoffrey of Monmouth, that Mannyng stands out. His verse is often seen as rather pedestrian; however, in the exempla in \"Handling Synne\", in particular, there is a life and a colour which give vibrancy to the tales and which make the work very entertaining to read—unlike several other contemporary penitential works.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17730738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17730738", "title": "Seikko Eskola", "text": "Seikko Eskola\n\nSeikko Aarne Väinämö Eskola (b. 13 September 1933 in Riihimäki) is a Finnish historian and debater. Eskola was 1974–1997 assistant professor in general history at Tampere University. He was editor in chief for the cultural journal \"Kanava\" 1979–1993.\n\nAmongst his works are to be found the journalistic historical work \"Suomen kysymys ja Ruotsin mielipide\" (1965), which contains a study of Swedish opinions about the status of Finland during 1914–1917, and \"Yhdysvaltain lehdistö ja Suomen kriisi\" (1974), which is about the American press and the Finnish crisis, and \"Kreikka, Englanti ja Yhdysvallat 1944–1953\" (1971). He became professor \"honoris causa\" in 1993.\n\n"}
{"id": "10574626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10574626", "title": "Space Exploration Initiative", "text": "Space Exploration Initiative\n\nThe Space Exploration Initiative was a 1989–1993 space public policy initiative of the George H. W. Bush administration.\n\nOn July 20, 1989, the 20th anniversary of the Apollo 11 Moon landing, George H. W. Bush — then President of the United States — announced plans for what came to be known as the Space Exploration Initiative (SEI). In a speech on the steps of the National Air and Space Museum he described plans calling for constructing Space Station Freedom, sending humans back to the Moon \"to stay\" and ultimately sending astronauts to explore Mars. He proposed not a 10-year Apollo-style plan, but a long-range continuing commitment based on the three above elements, ending with \"a journey into tomorrow – a journey to another planet – a manned mission to Mars.\" The President noted it was humanity's destiny to explore, and America's destiny to lead. He asked Vice President Dan Quayle to lead the National Space Council in determining what was needed to carry out these missions in terms of money, manpower and technology.\n\nIn the event, execution of the initiative was assigned to NASA, but the initiative did not survive long into the administration of the next president, Bill Clinton.\n\nIn August 1987 a committee chaired by former astronaut Dr. Sally Ride released a report entitled \"Leadership and America's Future in Space\". The \"Ride Report\" advocated establishment of a permanent moon base by 2010 and landing a crew on Mars early in the 21st century.\n\nOn January 5, 1988 President Ronald Reagan approved a revised United States national space policy, which was classified. On February 11 a summary \"Fact Sheet\" about the policy was publicly released. The policy identified six goals of United States space activities, the last of which was, \"to expand human presence and activity beyond Earth orbit into the solar system.\"\n\nIn the view of NASA, the July 20, 1989 speech by President Bush, \"provided specificity\" to that policy goal. Following this announcement NASA Administrator Richard Truly initiated a study of the options to achieve the President's goals, headed by Johnson Space Center Director Aaron Cohen. A report on that study, called, \"the 90-Day Study on Human Exploration of the Moon and Mars\" (or simply, \"the 90-Day Study\"), was published by NASA on November 20, 1989.\n\nThe 90-Day Study estimated SEI's long-term cost at approximately 500 billion dollars spread over 20 to 30 years. According to Steve Dick, NASA Chief Historian, the National Academy of Sciences largely concurred with the NASA study, but White House and Congressional reaction to the NASA plan was hostile, primarily due to the cost estimate. In particular, Democratic members of Congress had almost immediate criticism over Bush's plan. Chairman of the Budget Committee, Senator Jim Sasser, stated \"The President took one giant leap for starry-eyed political rhetoric, and not even a small step for fiscal responsibility. The hard fact is, this Administration doesn't even have its space priorities established for next year, much less for the next century.\" His fellow Tennessee Senator Al Gore also was quoted expressing his criticism of Bush's plan, saying \"By proposing a return to the Moon, with no money, no timetable, and no plan, President Bush offers the country not a challenge to inspire us, but a daydream to briefly entertain us, a daydream about as splashy as a George Lucas movie, with about as much connection to reality.\" \nPresident Bush sought international partners, but the program was thought too expensive even for an international endeavor.\n\nIn August 1990, Vice President Quayle established an advisory committee, often called the \"Augustine Commission\", which recommended that NASA should focus on space and Earth science, and transition human exploration to a \"go-as-you-pay\" strategy.\n\nOn April 1, 1992 Dan Goldin became NASA Administrator, and during his tenure near-term human exploration beyond Earth orbit was abandoned, and the \"faster, better, cheaper\" strategy was applied to space science robotic exploration.\n\nWhen the White House National Science and Technology Council released their revision of the National Space Policy in September 1996, it specifically lacked any mention of human space exploration beyond Earth's orbit. The next day, President Clinton stated on a campaigning trip through the Pacific Northwest that a human mission to Mars was too expensive and instead affirmed America's commitment to a series of less expensive probes, thus removing human exploration from the national agenda.\n\nConstruction of Space Station Freedom.\n\nThe Lunar Orbiter Missions would yield further information on the distribution of high-TiO regolith on the whole Moon, through gamma-ray spectroscopy. The purpose was stated to be to provide a detailed geochemical and mineralogical map of the Moon. Global stereo imaging to aid in site selection was also given as a function of the mission.\n\nThe CLL program would have consisted of a series of Apollo-type missions, mostly robotic. One mission was entitled \"Outpost Site Survey and Resource Assessment\", involving the use of rovers. The site selected was in Mare Tranquillitatis near 15° N 22° E. This point is on the boundary between mare material and the ejecta blanket of the huge (45 km diameter) crater Plinius, on the east margin of a 25–40 km-wide band of material separating the ejecta blanket from highlands to the west.\n\nFor establishment of the First Lunar Outpost (FLO) two possible sites were mentioned: (1) Mare Smythii, which has an equatorial position straddling the eastern terminator of the nearside of the Moon, and (2) the Aristarchus Plateau at 23° N 48° W.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "105888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105888", "title": "The End of History and the Last Man", "text": "The End of History and the Last Man\n\nThe End of History and the Last Man is a 1992 book by Francis Fukuyama, expanding on his 1989 essay \"The End of History?\", published in the international affairs journal \"The National Interest\". In the book, Fukuyama argues that the advent of Western liberal democracy may signal the endpoint of humanity's sociocultural evolution and the final form of human government.\n\nWhat we may be witnessing is not just the end of the Cold War, or the passing of a particular period of post-war history, but the end of history as such: that is, the end point of mankind's ideological evolution and the universalization of Western liberal democracy as the final form of human government.\n\nFukuyama's position contradicts that of Karl Marx, who predicted that communism would displace capitalism. Fukuyama himself identifies on some level with Marx, but more strongly with the German philosopher Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, by way of Alexandre Kojève. Kojève argued that the progress of history must lead toward the establishment of a \"universal and homogenous\" state, most likely incorporating elements of liberal or social democracy; but Kojève's emphasis on the necessarily \"post-political\" character of such a state (and its citizens) makes such comparisons inadequate, and is irreducible to any mere \"triumph\" of capitalism.\n\n\nAccording to Fukuyama, since the French Revolution, democracy has repeatedly proven to be a fundamentally better system (ethically, politically, economically) than any of the alternatives.\n\nThe most basic (and prevalent) error in discussing Fukuyama's work is to confuse \"history\" with \"events\". Fukuyama claims not that events will stop occurring in the future, but rather that all that will happen in the future (even if totalitarianism returns) is that democracy will become more and more prevalent in the \"long\" term, although it may suffer \"temporary\" setbacks (which may, of course, last for centuries).\n\nSome argue that Fukuyama presents \"American-style\" democracy as the only \"correct\" political system and argues that all countries must inevitably follow this particular system of government. However, many Fukuyama scholars claim this is a misreading of his work. Fukuyama's argument is only that in the future there will be more and more governments that use the framework of parliamentary democracy and that contain markets of some sort. Indeed, Fukuyama has stated:\n\n\"The End of History\" was never linked to a specifically American model of social or political organization. Following Alexandre Kojève, the Russian-French philosopher who inspired my original argument, I believe that the European Union more accurately reflects what the world will look like at the end of history than the contemporary United States. The EU's attempt to transcend sovereignty and traditional power politics by establishing a transnational rule of law is much more in line with a \"post-historical\" world than the Americans' continuing belief in God, national sovereignty, and their military.\n\nAn argument in favour of Fukuyama's thesis is the democratic peace theory, which argues that mature democracies rarely or never go to war with one another. This theory has faced criticism, with arguments largely resting on conflicting definitions of \"war\" and \"mature democracy\". Part of the difficulty in assessing the theory is that democracy as a widespread global phenomenon emerged only very recently in human history, which makes generalizing about it difficult. (See also list of wars between democracies.)\n\nOther major empirical evidence includes the elimination of interstate warfare in South America, Southeast Asia, and Eastern Europe among countries that moved from military dictatorships to liberal democracies.\n\nAccording to several studies, the end of the Cold War and the subsequent increase in the number of liberal democratic states were accompanied by a sudden and dramatic decline in total warfare, interstate wars, ethnic wars, revolutionary wars, and the number of refugees and displaced persons.\n\nSome have argued against the book due to an ideological disagreement with the concept of liberal democracy.\n\nJacques Derrida criticized Fukuyama in \"Specters of Marx\" (1993) as a \"come-lately reader\" of Alexandre Kojève \"in the tradition of Leo Strauss\", who already described US society in the 1950s as the \"realization of communism\". According to Derrida, Fukuyama—and the quick celebrity of his book—is but one symptom of the anxiety to ensure the \"death of Marx\". Fukuyama's celebration of liberal hegemony is criticized by Derrida:\n\nDerrida goes on to analyze Fukuyama's book as taking part in the intellectual branch of current Western hegemony and the spreading of its \"New Gospel\": \"This end of History is essentially a Christian eschatology. It is consonant with the current discourse of the Pope on the European community: destined to become a Christian State or Super-State, this community would still belong therefore to some Holy Alliance.\" He claims that the book uses a \"sleight-of-hand trick\" of making use of empirical data whenever it seems to suit its message, while appealing to an ideal whenever the empirical data contradicts it. Derrida points out that Fukuyama himself sees the real United States and European Union as imperfect compared to the \"ideals\" of liberal democracy and the free market. Even the author understands that such ideals are not demonstrated by empirical evidence or ever could be demonstrated empirically. They belong entirely to the realm of philosophy or religion, owing their birth to the Gospels of Philosophy of Hegel. And yet Fukuyama still uses a movement toward empirical observations, which he himself grants are imperfect and incomplete, to validate an idea that is purely idealistic and transcendent of any empirical reality or possibility.\n\nCertain versions of Marxism can be conceived as \"end of history\" philosophies. Therefore, Marxists like Perry Anderson have been among Fukuyama's fiercest critics. Apart from pointing out that capitalist democracies are still riven with poverty, racial tension, and the like, Marxists also reject Fukuyama's reliance on Hegel. According to them, Hegel's philosophy was fatally flawed until Marx \"turned it on its head\" to create historical materialism. Fukuyama argues that even though there is poverty, racism, and sexism in present-day democracies, there is no sign of a major revolutionary movement developing that would actually overthrow capitalism. While Marxists disagree with Fukuyama's claim that \"capitalist\" democracy represents the end of history, they support the idea that the \"end of history\" will consist of the victory of democracy: communism, in the Marxist view, must necessarily involve a form of direct democracy.\n\nFormer Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez argued against \"the end of history\": he argued his case in his September 2006 address to the United Nations General Assembly. Shortly before that, in August 2006, Fukuyama wrote in response to Chávez's argument, his main point being that \"Chavismo\" was only possible due to the unique oil reserves of Venezuela, and thus would not spread.\n\nMarxist interpretations aside, the economic and social philosophy of Fukuyama can be summarized as Free-Market Libertarian. Although this tends to be an ambiguous word, he uses it in the proper meaning for the time when the book was published. It has been argued that he might even be a Neoconservative on some points but this has been firmly shot down by him and his use of \"ideal\" systems which is firmly denounced by many Anarcho-Capitalists of the same rote who believe that no government can be good. His moral bent is strikingly similar but he does not identify with the founding fathers while espousing the same form of government to avoid petty debates.\n\nVarious Western commentators have described the thesis of \"The End of History\" as flawed because it does not sufficiently take into account the power of ethnic loyalties and religious fundamentalism as a counter-force to the spread of liberal democracy, with the specific example of Islamic fundamentalism, or radical Islam, as the most powerful of these.\n\nBenjamin Barber wrote a 1992 article and a 1995 book, \"Jihad vs. McWorld\", that addressed this theme. Barber described \"McWorld\" as a secular, liberal, corporate-friendly transformation of the world and used the word \"jihad\" to refer to the competing forces of tribalism and religious fundamentalism, with a special emphasis on Islamic fundamentalism.\n\nSamuel P. Huntington wrote a 1993 essay, \"The Clash of Civilizations\", in direct response to \"The End of History\"; he then expanded the essay into a 1996 book, \"The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order\". In the essay and book, Huntington argued that the temporary conflict between ideologies is being replaced by the ancient conflict between civilizations. The dominant civilization decides the form of human government, and these will not be constant. He especially singled out Islam, which he described as having \"bloody borders\".\n\nAfter the September 11, 2001, attacks, \"The End of History\" was cited by some commentators as a symbol of the supposed naiveté and undue optimism of the Western world during the 1990s, in thinking that the end of the Cold War also represented the end of major global conflict. In the weeks after the attacks, Fareed Zakaria called the events \"the end of the end of history\", while George Will wrote that history had \"returned from vacation\".\n\nFukuyama did discuss radical Islam briefly in \"The End of History\". He argued that Islam is not an imperialist force like Stalinism and fascism; that is, it has little intellectual or emotional appeal outside the Islamic \"heartlands\". Fukuyama pointed to the economic and political difficulties that Iran and Saudi Arabia face and argued that such states are fundamentally unstable: either they will become democracies with a Muslim society (like Turkey) or they will simply disintegrate. Moreover, when Islamic states have actually been created, they were easily dominated by the powerful Western states.\n\nIn October 2001, Fukuyama, in a \"Wall Street Journal\" opinion piece, responded to the declarations that the September 11 attacks had disproved his views by stating that \"time and resources are on the side of modernity, and I see no lack of a will to prevail in the United States today.\" He also noted that his original thesis \"does not imply a world free from conflict, nor the disappearance of culture as a distinguishing characteristic of societies.\"\n\nIn a 2008 \"Washington Post\" opinion piece, Fukuyama wrote:\n\nDemocracy's only real competitor in the realm of ideas today is radical Islamism. Indeed, one of the world's most dangerous nation-states today is Iran, run by extremist Shiite mullahs. But as Peter Bergen pointed out in these pages last week, Sunni radicalism has been remarkably ineffective in actually taking control of a nation-state, due to its propensity to devour its own potential supporters. Some disenfranchised Muslims thrill to the rantings of Osama bin Laden or Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, but the appeal of this kind of medieval Islamism is strictly limited.\n\nAnother challenge to the \"end of history\" thesis is the growth in the economic and political power of two countries, Russia and China; China has a one-party state government, while Russia, though formally a democracy, has been described by some as \"de facto\" authoritarian.\n\nAzar Gat, Professor of National Security at Tel Aviv University, argued this point in his 2007 \"Foreign Affairs\" article, \"The Return of Authoritarian Great Powers\", stating that the success of these two countries could \"end the end of history\". Gat also discussed radical Islam, but stated that the movements associated with it \"represent no viable alternative to modernity and pose no significant military threat to the developed world\". He considered the challenge of China and Russia to be the major threat, since they could pose a viable rival model which could inspire other states.\n\nThis view was echoed by Robert Kagan in his 2008 book, \"The Return of History and the End of Dreams\", whose title was a deliberate rejoinder to \"The End of History\".\n\nIn his 2008 \"Washington Post\" opinion piece, Fukuyama also addressed this point. He wrote, \"Despite recent authoritarian advances, liberal democracy remains the strongest, most broadly appealing idea out there. Most autocrats, including Putin and Chávez, still feel that they have to conform to the outward rituals of democracy even as they gut its substance. Even China's Hu Jintao felt compelled to talk about democracy in the run-up to Beijing's Olympic Games.\"\n\nIn 2014, on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the publication of the original essay, \"The End of History?\", Fukuyama wrote a column in \"The Wall Street Journal\" again updating his hypothesis. He wrote that, while liberal democracy still had no real competition from more authoritarian systems of government \"in the realm of ideas\", nevertheless he was less idealistic than he had been \"during the heady days of 1989.\" Fukuyama noted the Orange Revolution in Ukraine and the Arab Spring, both of which seemed to have failed in their pro-democracy goals, as well as the \"backsliding\" of democracy in countries including Thailand, Turkey and Nicaragua. He stated that the biggest problem for the democratically elected governments in some countries was not ideological but \"their failure to provide the substance of what people want from government: personal security, shared economic growth and the basic public services... that are needed to achieve individual opportunity.\" Though he believed that economic growth, improved government and civic institutions all reinforced one another, he wrote that it was not inevitable that \"all countries will... get on that escalator.\"\n\nFukuyama also warned of \"political decay,\" which he wrote could also affect established democracies like the United States, in which corruption and crony capitalism erode liberty and economic opportunity. Nevertheless, he expressed his continued belief that \"the power of the democratic ideal remains immense.\"\n\nFollowing Britain's decision to leave the European Union and the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States in 2016, Fukuyama feared for the future of liberal democracy in the face of resurgent populism, and the rise of a \"post-fact world\", saying that \"twenty five years ago, I didn't have a sense or a theory about how democracies can go backward. And I think they clearly can.\" He also warned that America's political rot was infecting the world order to the point where it \"could be as big as the Soviet collapse\".\n\nFukuyama has also stated that his thesis was incomplete, but for a different reason: \"there can be no end of history without an end of modern natural science and technology\" (quoted from \"Our Posthuman Future\"). Fukuyama predicts that humanity's control of its own evolution will have a great and possibly terrible effect on liberal democracy.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9165313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9165313", "title": "The English Dialect Dictionary", "text": "The English Dialect Dictionary\n\nThe English Dialect Dictionary (EDD) is a dictionary of English dialects, compiled by Joseph Wright (1855–1930).\n\n\"The English Dialect Dictionary, being the complete vocabulary of all dialect words still in use, or known to have been in use during the last two hundred years; founded on the publications of the English Dialect Society and on a large amount of material never before printed\" was published by Oxford University Press in 6 volumes between 1898 and 1905. Its compilation and printing was funded privately by Joseph Wright, a self-taught philologist at the University of Oxford. Vol. 1: A-C; Vol. 2: D-G; Vol. 3: H-L; Vol. 4: M-Q; Vol. 5: R-S; Vol. 6: T-Z, supplement, bibliography and grammar. The content was issued progressively as 28 parts intended for binding into the six volumes with publication dates of 1898, 1900, 1902, 1903, 1904 & 1905. Vol. 6 includes an invaluable list of writings in dialect arranged by counties.\n\nDue to the scale of the work, 70,000 entries, and the period in which the information was gathered, it is regarded as a standard work in the historical study of dialect. Wright marked annotations and corrections in a cut-up and rebound copy of the first edition; this copy is among Wright's papers in the Bodleian Library at the University of Oxford.\n\nA digitized version of the \"EDD\" has been made available by Innsbruck University, free of charge for non-institutional, non-profit purposes. A scanned version of the work made by University of Toronto Library is currently available through the Internet Archive.\n\nThe sixth volume includes the \"English Dialect Grammar\", which was also published separately. This included 16,000 dialectal forms across two main sections: 'Phonology', which gave a historical description of the development of sounds in dialect; and 'Accidence', which gave details on grammar and especially on morphology.\n\nAmong linguists, the Dialect Grammar has been criticised more than the Dialect Dictionary itself. Wright has been accused of borrowing material from the work of Alexander John Ellis that he had previously criticised. Peter Anderson claimed that Wright did Ellis a \"disservice\" by criticising the methods used in collecting data, but then using almost identical methods in \"English Dialect Grammar\" and taking on much of Ellis's data for his own work. Both Peter Anderson and Graham Shorrocks have argued that Wright distorted Ellis's data by using a less precise phonetic notation and using vague geographical areas rather than the precise locations given by Ellis. Helga Koekeritz stated that Wright's information on the Suffolk dialect was almost entirely derived from Ellis, and Warren Maguire has made similar comments about Wright's information on the north-east of England whilst also saying that the Grammar did introduce much new material.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35548804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35548804", "title": "The Hazara People and Greater Khorasan", "text": "The Hazara People and Greater Khorasan\n\nMardum-i Hazara Wa Khorasan-i Buzurg (\"The Hazara people and Greater Khorasan\") is Persian language book about the history and origins of the Hazara people by Muhammad Taqi Khavari.\n\n"}
{"id": "1356669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1356669", "title": "Theatre of Cruelty", "text": "Theatre of Cruelty\n\nThe Theatre of Cruelty (, also ) is a form of theatre originally developed by avant-garde French playwright, essayist, and theorist Henry Becque. \n\nAntonin Artaud, some 50 years later, is also seen as a main contributor to the genre, notably with \"The Theatre and its Double\". Originally a member of the surrealist movement, Artaud eventually began to develop his own theatrical theories. The Theatre of Cruelty can be seen as a break from traditional Western theatre and a means by which artists assault the senses of the audience, and allow them to feel the unexpressed emotions of the subconscious. While Artaud was only able to produce one play in his lifetime that reflected the tenets of the Theatre of Cruelty, the works of many theatre artists reflect his theories. These artists include Jean Genet, Jerzy Grotowski, and Peter Brook.\n\nAntonin Artaud was a member of the surrealist movement in Paris in the 1930s, and was well known as an actor, playwright, and essayist of avant-garde theatre. Much of the avant-garde theatre developed in France from 1914-1939 can be seen as a revolt against tradition. Deeply affected by the events of World War I, the artists of the movement felt increasing skepticism of the existing societal structures that had allowed for global warfare.\n\nWhile Artaud would eventually break away from surrealism, the movement helped to shape his later theories on the Theatre of Cruelty. Led by André Breton, surrealist theatre reflected a belief that the unconscious mind is a source of artistic truth. In his manifesto on surrealism, Breton writes, \"pure psychic automatism, by which is intended to express, verbally, in writing, or by other means, the real process of thought. Thought's dictation, in absence of all control exercised by the reason and outside all esthetic or moral preoccupation.\"\n\nIn 1926, in association with surrealist playwright Roger Vitrac, Artaud founded the Theatre Alfred Jarry, which only produced non-realistic drama. The theatre lasted only two years. After his work in surrealist theatre, Artaud went on to develop his theories on the Theatre of Cruelty after he was inspired by a Balinese dance troupe performance that he viewed at the Paris Colonial Exhibit in 1931. The performance conventions of Balinese dance were different than any Artaud had previously experienced, and he was struck by the intense physicality of the dancers. Artaud went on to publish his major work on the Theatre of Cruelty, \"The Theatre and Its Double\", seven years later in 1937.\n\n\nIn his writings on the Theatre of Cruelty, Artaud points to both \"theatre\" and \"cruelty\" that are separate from their colloquial meanings. For Artaud, theatre does not merely refer to a staged performance before a passive audience. The theatre is a practice, which \"wakes us up. Nerves and heart,\" and through which we experience, \"immediate violent action,\" that \"inspires us with the fiery magnetism of its images and acts upon us like a spiritual therapeutics whose touch can never be forgotten.\"\n\nSimilarly, cruelty does not refer to an act of emotional or physical violence. According to scholar Nathan Gorelick, \"Cruelty is, more profoundly, the unrelenting agitation of a life that has become unnecessary, lazy, or removed from a compelling force. The Theatre of Cruelty gives expression to everything that is ‘crime, love, war, or madness' in order to ‘unforgettably root within us the ideas of perpetual conflict, a spasm in which life is continually lacerated, in which everything in creation rises up and asserts itself against our appointed rank.'\"\n\n\nArtaud felt that the focus of theatre in the west had become far too narrow—primarily examining the psychological suffering of individuals or the societal struggles of specific groups of people. He wanted to delve into the aspects of the subconscious that he believed were often the root cause of human being's mistreatment of one another. Through an assault on the audiences' senses, Artaud was convinced that a theatrical experience could help people purge destructive feelings and experience the joy that society forces them to repress. For Artaud, \"the theatre has been created to drain abscesses collectively.\" \n\n\nArtaud believed that language was an entirely insufficient means to express trauma. Accordingly, he felt that words should be stripped of meaning and chosen for their phonic elements. According to scholar Robert Vork, \"Speech on the Theatre of Cruelty's stage is reduced to inarticulate sounds, cries, and gibbering screams, no longer inviting a subject into being but seeking to preclude its very existence.\" Somewhat paradoxically, Artaud claims that his characters are able to express things that others are unable to say. Vork claims, \"Artaud seems to be suggesting that his play reveals emotions and experiences that we all attempt to proscribe and are unwilling to acknowledge, but which nevertheless occur.\"\n\n\nStephen Barber explains that \"the Theatre of Cruelty has often been called an 'impossible theatre'—vital for the purity of inspiration which it generated, but hopelessly vague and metaphorical in its concrete detail.\" This impossibility has not prevented others from articulating a version of his principles as the basis for explorations of their own. \"Though many of those theatre-artists proclaimed an Artaudian lineage,\" Susie Tharu argues, \"the Artaud they invoke is marked by a commitment as ahistorical and transcendent as their own.\" There is, she suggests, another Artaud and \"the tradition he was midwife to.\" \n\nArtaud wanted to abolish the stage and auditorium, and to do away with sets and props and masks. He envisioned the performance space as an empty room with the audience seated in the center and the actors performing all around them. The stage effects included overwhelming sounds and bright lights in order to stun the audience's sensibilities and completely immerse them in the theatrical experience. Artaud believed that he could erode an audience's resistance by using these methods, \"addressed first of all to the senses rather than to the mind,\" because, \"the public thinks first with all of its senses.\"\n\nIn his lifetime, Artaud only produced one play that put the theories of the Theatre of Cruelty into practice. He staged and directed \"Les Cenci\", adapted from the dramatic work of the same title by Percy Bysshe Shelley, in 1935 at the Théâtre des Folies-Wagram in Paris. The play was neither a commercial or critical success and ran for only 17 performances. Artaud, however, believed that, while he was forced to limit the scope of his vision due to financial constraints, \"Les Cenci\" succeeded in exemplifying the tenets of the Theatre of Cruelty.\n\nAccording to scholar Pericles Lewis, the influences of the Theatre of Cruelty can most clearly be seen in the works of Jean Genet, a post World War II playwright. His plays featured ritualized murder and systemic oppression in order to show the negative consequences and suffering caused by political subjugation. In the 1960s, a number of directors began to incorporate Artaud's theories and staging practices in their work, including Jerzy Grotowski at the Theater Laboratory in Poland. In England, famed theatre director Peter Brook experimented with the Theatre of Cruelty in a series of workshops at the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC). These experiments are reflected in his direction and staging of RSC's lauded 1966 production of \"Marat/Sade\", a play with music by Peter Weiss. \"Marat/Sade\" uses dramatic devices developed by both Artaud and Brecht to depict class struggle and human suffering in the midst of changing social structures.\n\nThe German dramatist Heiner Müller argues that we have yet to feel or to appreciate fully Artaud's contribution to theatrical culture; his ideas are, Müller implies, 'untimely' :\"The emergency is Artaud. He tore literature away from the police, theater away from medicine. Under the sun of torture, which shines equally on all the continents of this planet, his texts blossom. Read on the ruins of Europe, they will be classics.\"\n\nIn 2011, a group of geography and sociology professors used the Theatre of Cruelty as a conceptual, experience based technique to explore the agrarian struggle and deforestation in the Amazon Basin. These professors:\n\"…suggest that theater, more generally, provides structure for cruel performance, and that violent land conflict, together with forest destruction, constitutes a predictable tragedy of theatrical events. In other words, violent land conflict in Amazonia, with all its terrible implication for people and environment, can be grasped as a theatrical structure with philosophic and material consequences for mind and body.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51212248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51212248", "title": "Timeline of Karl Marx", "text": "Timeline of Karl Marx\n\nKarl Marx (5 May 1818 – 14 March 1883) was a German philosopher, economist, sociologist, historian, journalist, and revolutionary socialist. Marx's work in economics laid the basis for the current understanding of labour and its relation to capital, and has influenced much of subsequent economic thought. He published numerous books during his lifetime, the most notable being \"The Communist Manifesto\". Marx studied at the University of Bonn and the University of Berlin, where he became interested in the philosophical ideas of the Young Hegelians. After his studies, he wrote for a radical newspaper in Cologne, and began to work out his theory of dialectical materialism. He moved to Paris in 1843, where he began writing for other radical newspapers and met Fredrick Engels, who would become his lifelong friend and collaborator. In 1849 he was exiled and moved to London together with his wife and children where he continued writing and formulating his theories about social and economic activity. He also campaigned for socialism and became a significant figure in the International Workingmen's Association.\n\nMarx's theories about society, economics and politics – collectively known as Marxism – hold that human societies progress through class struggle: a conflict between an ownership class that controls production and a dispossessed labouring class that provides the labour for production. He called capitalism the \"dictatorship of the bourgeoisie,\" believing it to be run by the wealthy classes for their own benefit; and he predicted that, like previous socioeconomic systems, capitalism produced internal tensions which would lead to its self-destruction and replacement by a new system: socialism. He argued that class antagonisms under capitalism between the bourgeoisie and proletariat would eventuate in the working class' conquest of political power in the form of a dictatorship of the proletariat and eventually establish a classless society, socialism or communism, a society governed by a free association of producers. Along with believing in the inevitability of socialism and communism, Marx actively fought for their implementation, arguing that social theorists and underprivileged people alike should carry out organised revolutionary action to topple capitalism and bring about socio-economic change.\n\nMarx has been described as one of the most influential figures in human history. Revolutionary socialist governments espousing Marxist concepts took power in a variety of countries in the 20th century, leading to the formation of such socialist states as the Soviet Union in 1922 and the People's Republic of China in 1949. Many labour unions and workers' parties worldwide are influenced by Marxism, while various theoretical variants, such as Leninism, Stalinism, Trotskyism, and Maoism, were developed from them. Marx is typically cited, with Émile Durkheim and Max Weber, as one of the three principal architects of modern social science.\n\nThe list on the left recounts significant events in the life of Karl Marx, and his friends and family. The list on the right provides contextual information, recounting wider political and historical events that had an effect on Marx.\n\n"}
{"id": "54220223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54220223", "title": "Volodymyr Potulnytskyi", "text": "Volodymyr Potulnytskyi\n\nVolodymyr Potulnytskyi (; birth July 6, 1958, Lviv) is a Ukrainian historian who specializes in European medieval history, Ukrainian political science, intellectual history, historiosophy and historiography of Eastern Europe.\n\nPotulnytskyi studied at the historical faculty of Lviv University within the major Medieval European History and minors History of Early Modern Europe (1500—1815) from 1975—1980. In 1984 he presented at L'viv University his first thesis 'Political Culture of Creative Personality' and became candidate of science in philosophy. In 1989—1992 studied at the historical faculty of Kiev University within the major Modern Ukrainian History. In 1992 he defended his second thesis ‘The Concepts of Statehood in Ukrainian Historical and Political Science (1918—1939)’ and got a doctorate in ‘Ukrainian and Global History’.\n\nFrom 1999 till 2002 was the professor of the Chair of Medieval Ukrainian History and Special Historical Disciples in the University of Lviv where he received the rank of full professor in 2002. From 1992 Potulnytskyi is working as Leading Research Fellow of the Department of Foreign Sources, M. Hruschevskyi Institute of Ukrainian Archeography and Source Studies, National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine.\n\nPotulnytskyi's fields of research are Political theory, history of political thought, the history of ideologies, discourse history. He has published in Ukraine and abroad (Germany, Japan, Israel, Canada, Great Britain, Poland, Czech Republic), and in internationally leading journals, such as Jahrbücher für Geschichte Osteuropas, Zeitschrift für Ostmitteleuropa-Forschung, Acta Slavica Japonica, \"Journal of East- European Jewry Hebrew University of Jerusalem\", \"Ukrains'kyi istorychnyj zurnal\". He is also a founder of his own research school in historiosophy and intellectual history.\n\nVolodymyr Potulnytskyip has made contributions on the theoretical and historical aspects of the influences of the dominant nations (Germany, Russia, Poland) on the development of Ukrainian historical and political thought in the 18th-20th centuries. He was the first scholar in the post-soviet space to solve the problems of integrating country's own version of the past in global and European history with shedding a new light on the problems of Russo — Ukrainian, Polish — Ukrainian, German — Ukrainian and Jewish — Ukrainian Relations.\n\nHe has worked in the field of diplomatic history, and, incorporating in his last monograph the noval archival materials from Ukraine, Switzerland, USA, etc. was able to provide a concrete picture of diplomatic intercourse between former Het'man of Ukraine Pavlo Skoropadskyi, and German, Japanese, British military and political officials in the crucial years of 1926—1943.\n\nPotulnytskyi has been awarded National and International Fellowships of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, Fellowship of the Ministry of Education of Austria, Fellowship of the Ministry of Sciences of Japan, Jewish Memorial Foundation Fellowship in the United States of America, Research Fellowships of Harvard, Edmonton, Wien, Cologne, Hokkaido, Hebrew University of Jerusalem Universities and Herder Institute for Historical East and Central European Research in Marburg, Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "52891515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52891515", "title": "Waldo Martin", "text": "Waldo Martin\n\nWaldo E. Martin (born 19 April 1951) is an American historian.\n\nHe received his BA degree from Duke University. He completed his PhD from University of California Berkeley.\n\nHe is currently the Alexander F. and May T. Morrison Professor of American History and Citizenship at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nHe is a member of the Organization of American Historians.\n\nSome of his books are:\n\n"}
